{"id": "40592866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40592866", "title": "Adorcism", "text": "Adorcism\n\nIn the sociology of religion, Luc de Heusch coined the term adorcism for practices to placate or accommodate spiritual entities in a possessed person or place. Unlike exorcism, the relationship with the entities is potentially positive. This is sometimes used as initiation into a spirit cult.\n\nJean-Michel Oughourlian defines adorcism as \"voluntary, desired, and curative possessions\".\n"}
{"id": "378443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378443", "title": "Airline timetable", "text": "Airline timetable\n\nAirline timetables are printed pamphlets or folders that many airlines have traditionally used to inform passengers of several different things, such as schedules, fleet, security, in-flight entertainment, food menus, baggage weight restrictions, and contact information.\n\nAirline timetables used to be printed, multi-page pamphlets available at airport counters, or upon request by phone or mail. On January 16, 1928, Pan Am published one of their first timetables. It read \"The air-way to Havana, Pan American Airways, Pershing Square Building, New York\". \nMany airline timetables had colorful covers. The timetables of very small airlines, such as Scenic Airways, consisted of one sheet of paper, with their hub's flight time information on the front, and the return times on the back. \nIn recent years, most airlines have stopped production of printed timetables, in order to cut costs and reduce the delay between a change of schedule and a new timetable being in the hands of the public. As a consequence, most airlines now post their timetables only online (the larger airlines often offering a stand-alone application, while others provide just a downloadable document such as a PDF), and the value of many printed airline timetable has risen among collectors.\n\n"}
{"id": "569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=569", "title": "Anthropology", "text": "Anthropology\n\nAnthropology is the study of humans and human behavior and societies in the past and present. Social anthropology and cultural anthropology study the norms and values of societies. Linguistic anthropology studies how language affects social life. Biological or physical anthropology studies the biological development of humans.\n\nArchaeology, which studies past human cultures through investigation of physical evidence, is thought of as a branch of anthropology in the United States and Canada, while in Europe, it is viewed as a discipline in its own right or grouped under other related disciplines, such as history.\n\nThe abstract noun \"anthropology\" is first attested in reference to history. Its present use first appeared in Renaissance Germany in the works of Magnus Hundt and Otto Casmann. Their New Latin ' derived from the combining forms of the Greek words \"ánthrōpos\" (, \"human\") and \"lógos\" (, \"study\"). (Its adjectival form appeared in the works of Aristotle.) It began to be used in English, possibly via French ', by the early 18th century.\n\nIn 1647, the Bartholins, founders of the University of Copenhagen, defined \" as follows:\n\nAnthropology, that is to say the science that treats of man, is divided ordinarily and with reason into Anatomy, which considers the body and the parts, and Psychology, which speaks of the soul.\n\nSporadic use of the term for some of the subject matter occurred subsequently, such as the use by Étienne Serres in 1839 to describe the natural history, or paleontology, of man, based on comparative anatomy, and the creation of a chair in anthropology and ethnography in 1850 at the National Museum of Natural History (France) by Jean Louis Armand de Quatrefages de Bréau. Various short-lived organizations of anthropologists had already been formed. The Société Ethnologique de Paris, the first to use Ethnology, was formed in 1839. Its members were primarily anti-slavery activists. When slavery was abolished in France in 1848 the Société was abandoned.\n\nMeanwhile, the Ethnological Society of New York, currently the American Ethnological Society, was founded on its model in 1842, as well as the Ethnological Society of London in 1843, a break-away group of the Aborigines' Protection Society. These anthropologists of the times were liberal, anti-slavery, and pro-human-rights activists. They maintained international connections.\n\nAnthropology and many other current fields are the intellectual results of the comparative methods developed in the earlier 19th century. Theorists in such diverse fields as anatomy, linguistics, and Ethnology, making feature-by-feature comparisons of their subject matters, were beginning to suspect that similarities between animals, languages, and folkways were the result of processes or laws unknown to them then. For them, the publication of Charles Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\" was the epiphany of everything they had begun to suspect. Darwin himself arrived at his conclusions through comparison of species he had seen in agronomy and in the wild.\n\nDarwin and Wallace unveiled evolution in the late 1850s. There was an immediate rush to bring it into the social sciences. Paul Broca in Paris was in the process of breaking away from the Société de biologie to form the first of the explicitly anthropological societies, the Société d'Anthropologie de Paris, meeting for the first time in Paris in 1859. When he read Darwin, he became an immediate convert to \"Transformisme\", as the French called evolutionism. His definition now became \"the study of the human group, considered as a whole, in its details, and in relation to the rest of nature\".\n\nBroca, being what today would be called a neurosurgeon, had taken an interest in the pathology of speech. He wanted to localize the difference between man and the other animals, which appeared to reside in speech. He discovered the speech center of the human brain, today called Broca's area after him. His interest was mainly in Biological anthropology, but a German philosopher specializing in psychology, Theodor Waitz, took up the theme of general and social anthropology in his six-volume work, entitled \"Die Anthropologie der Naturvölker\", 1859–1864. The title was soon translated as \"The Anthropology of Primitive Peoples\". The last two volumes were published posthumously.\n\nWaitz defined anthropology as \"the science of the nature of man\". By nature he meant matter animated by \"the Divine breath\"; i.e., he was an animist. Following Broca's lead, Waitz points out that anthropology is a new field, which would gather material from other fields, but would differ from them in the use of comparative anatomy, physiology, and psychology to differentiate man from \"the animals nearest to him\". He stresses that the data of comparison must be empirical, gathered by experimentation. The history of civilization, as well as ethnology, are to be brought into the comparison. It is to be presumed fundamentally that the species, man, is a unity, and that \"the same laws of thought are applicable to all men\".\n\nWaitz was influential among the British ethnologists. In 1863 the explorer Richard Francis Burton and the speech therapist James Hunt broke away from the Ethnological Society of London to form the Anthropological Society of London, which henceforward would follow the path of the new anthropology rather than just ethnology. It was the 2nd society dedicated to general anthropology in existence. Representatives from the French \"Société\" were present, though not Broca. In his keynote address, printed in the first volume of its new publication, \"The Anthropological Review\", Hunt stressed the work of Waitz, adopting his definitions as a standard. Among the first associates were the young Edward Burnett Tylor, inventor of cultural anthropology, and his brother Alfred Tylor, a geologist. Previously Edward had referred to himself as an ethnologist; subsequently, an anthropologist.\n\nSimilar organizations in other countries followed: The Anthropological Society of Madrid (1865), the American Anthropological Association in 1902, the Anthropological Society of Vienna (1870), the Italian Society of Anthropology and Ethnology (1871), and many others subsequently. The majority of these were evolutionist. One notable exception was the Berlin Society for Anthropology, Ethnology, and Prehistory (1869) founded by Rudolph Virchow, known for his vituperative attacks on the evolutionists. Not religious himself, he insisted that Darwin's conclusions lacked empirical foundation.\n\nDuring the last three decades of the 19th century, a proliferation of anthropological societies and associations occurred, most independent, most publishing their own journals, and all international in membership and association. The major theorists belonged to these organizations. They supported the gradual osmosis of anthropology curricula into the major institutions of higher learning. By 1898 the American Association for the Advancement of Science was able to report that 48 educational institutions in 13 countries had some curriculum in anthropology. None of the 75 faculty members were under a department named anthropology.\n\nThis meager statistic expanded in the 20th century to comprise anthropology departments in the majority of the world's higher educational institutions, many thousands in number. Anthropology has diversified from a few major subdivisions to dozens more. Practical Anthropology, the use of anthropological knowledge and technique to solve specific problems, has arrived; for example, the presence of buried victims might stimulate the use of a forensic archaeologist to recreate the final scene. The organization has reached global level. For example, the World Council of Anthropological Associations (WCAA), \"a network of national, regional and international associations that aims to promote worldwide communication and cooperation in anthropology\", currently contains members from about three dozen nations.\n\nSince the work of Franz Boas and Bronisław Malinowski in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, \"social\" anthropology in Great Britain and \"cultural\" anthropology in the US have been distinguished from other social sciences by its emphasis on cross-cultural comparisons, long-term in-depth examination of context, and the importance it places on participant-observation or experiential immersion in the area of research. Cultural anthropology, in particular, has emphasized cultural relativism, holism, and the use of findings to frame cultural critiques. This has been particularly prominent in the United States, from Boas' arguments against 19th-century racial ideology, through Margaret Mead's advocacy for gender equality and sexual liberation, to current criticisms of post-colonial oppression and promotion of multiculturalism. Ethnography is one of its primary research designs as well as the text that is generated from anthropological fieldwork.\n\nIn Great Britain and the Commonwealth countries, the British tradition of social anthropology tends to dominate. In the United States, anthropology has traditionally been divided into the four field approach developed by Franz Boas in the early 20th century: \"biological\" or \"physical\" anthropology; \"social\", \"cultural\", or \"sociocultural\" anthropology; and archaeology; plus anthropological linguistics. These fields frequently overlap but tend to use different methodologies and techniques.\n\nEuropean countries with overseas colonies tended to practice more ethnology (a term coined and defined by Adam F. Kollár in 1783). It is sometimes referred to as sociocultural anthropology in the parts of the world that were influenced by the European tradition.\n\nAnthropology is a global discipline involving humanities, social sciences and natural sciences. Anthropology builds upon knowledge from natural sciences, including the discoveries about the origin and evolution of \"Homo sapiens\", human physical traits, human behavior, the variations among different groups of humans, how the evolutionary past of \"Homo sapiens\" has influenced its social organization and culture, and from social sciences, including the organization of human social and cultural relations, institutions, social conflicts, etc. Early anthropology originated in Classical Greece and Persia and studied and tried to understand observable cultural diversity. As such, anthropology has been central in the development of several new (late 20th century) interdisciplinary fields such as cognitive science, global studies, and various ethnic studies.\n\nAccording to Clifford Geertz,\nSociocultural anthropology has been heavily influenced by structuralist and postmodern theories, as well as a shift toward the analysis of modern societies. During the 1970s and 1990s, there was an epistemological shift away from the positivist traditions that had largely informed the discipline. During this shift, enduring questions about the nature and production of knowledge came to occupy a central place in cultural and social anthropology. In contrast, archaeology and biological anthropology remained largely positivist. Due to this difference in epistemology, the four sub-fields of anthropology have lacked cohesion over the last several decades.\n\nSociocultural anthropology draws together the principle axes of cultural anthropology and social anthropology. Cultural anthropology is the comparative study of the manifold ways in which people \"make sense\" of the world around them, while social anthropology is the study of the \"relationships\" among individuals and groups. Cultural anthropology is more related to philosophy, literature and the arts (how one's culture affects the experience for self and group, contributing to a more complete understanding of the people's knowledge, customs, and institutions), while social anthropology is more related to sociology and history. In that, it helps develop an understanding of social structures, typically of others and other populations (such as minorities, subgroups, dissidents, etc.). There is no hard-and-fast distinction between them, and these categories overlap to a considerable degree.\n\nInquiry in sociocultural anthropology is guided in part by cultural relativism, the attempt to understand other societies in terms of their own cultural symbols and values. Accepting other cultures in their own terms moderates reductionism in cross-cultural comparison. This project is often accommodated in the field of ethnography. Ethnography can refer to both a methodology and the product of ethnographic research, i.e. an ethnographic monograph. As a methodology, ethnography is based upon long-term fieldwork within a community or other research site. Participant observation is one of the foundational methods of social and cultural anthropology. Ethnology involves the systematic comparison of different cultures. The process of participant-observation can be especially helpful to understanding a culture from an emic (conceptual, vs. etic, or technical) point of view.\n\nThe study of kinship and social organization is a central focus of sociocultural anthropology, as kinship is a human universal. Sociocultural anthropology also covers economic and political organization, law and conflict resolution, patterns of consumption and exchange, material culture, technology, infrastructure, gender relations, ethnicity, childrearing and socialization, religion, myth, symbols, values, etiquette, worldview, sports, music, nutrition, recreation, games, food, festivals, and language (which is also the object of study in linguistic anthropology).\n\nComparison across cultures is a key element of method in sociocultural anthropology, including the industrialized (and de-industrialized) West. Cultures in the Standard Cross-Cultural Sample (SCCS) of world societies are:\n\nBiological anthropology and physical anthropology are synonymous terms to describe anthropological research focused on the study of humans and non-human primates in their biological, evolutionary, and demographic dimensions. It examines the biological and social factors that have affected the evolution of humans and other primates, and that generate, maintain or change contemporary genetic and physiological variation. \n\nArchaeology is the study of the human past through its material remains. Artifacts, faunal remains, and human altered landscapes are evidence of the cultural and material lives of past societies. Archaeologists examine this material remains in order to deduce patterns of past human behavior and cultural practices. Ethnoarchaeology is a type of archaeology that studies the practices and material remain of living human groups in order to gain a better understanding of the evidence left behind by past human groups, who are presumed to have lived in similar ways.\n\nLinguistic anthropology (not to be confused with anthropological linguistics) seeks to understand the processes of human communications, verbal and non-verbal, variation in language across time and space, the social uses of language, and the relationship between language and culture. It is the branch of anthropology that brings linguistic methods to bear on anthropological problems, linking the analysis of linguistic forms and processes to the interpretation of sociocultural processes. Linguistic anthropologists often draw on related fields including sociolinguistics, pragmatics, cognitive linguistics, semiotics, discourse analysis, and narrative analysis.\n\nOne of the central problems in the anthropology of art concerns the universality of 'art' as a cultural phenomenon. Several anthropologists have noted that the Western categories of 'painting', 'sculpture', or 'literature', conceived as independent artistic activities, do not exist, or exist in a significantly different form, in most non-Western contexts. To surmount this difficulty, anthropologists of art have focused on formal features in objects which, without exclusively being 'artistic', have certain evident 'aesthetic' qualities. Boas' \"Primitive Art\", Claude Lévi-Strauss' \"The Way of the Masks\" (1982) or Geertz's 'Art as Cultural System' (1983) are some examples in this trend to transform the anthropology of 'art' into an anthropology of culturally specific 'aesthetics'.\n\nMedia anthropology (also known as the anthropology of media or mass media) emphasizes ethnographic studies as a means of understanding producers, audiences, and other cultural and social aspects of mass media. The types of ethnographic contexts explored range from contexts of media production (e.g., ethnographies of newsrooms in newspapers, journalists in the field, film production) to contexts of media reception, following audiences in their everyday responses to media. Other types include cyber anthropology, a relatively new area of internet research, as well as ethnographies of other areas of research which happen to involve media, such as development work, social movements, or health education. This is in addition to many classic ethnographic contexts, where media such as radio, the press, new media, and television have started to make their presences felt since the early 1990s.\n\nEthnomusicology is an academic field encompassing various approaches to the study of music (broadly defined), that emphasize its cultural, social, material, cognitive, biological, and other dimensions or contexts instead of or in addition to its isolated sound component or any particular repertoire.\n\nVisual anthropology is concerned, in part, with the study and production of ethnographic photography, film and, since the mid-1990s, new media. While the term is sometimes used interchangeably with ethnographic film, visual anthropology also encompasses the anthropological study of visual representation, including areas such as performance, museums, art, and the production and reception of mass media. Visual representations from all cultures, such as sandpaintings, tattoos, sculptures and reliefs, cave paintings, scrimshaw, jewelry, hieroglyphics, paintings, and photographs are included in the focus of visual anthropology.\n\nEconomic anthropology attempts to explain human economic behavior in its widest historic, geographic and cultural scope. It has a complex relationship with the discipline of economics, of which it is highly critical. Its origins as a sub-field of anthropology begin with the Polish-British founder of anthropology, Bronisław Malinowski, and his French compatriot, Marcel Mauss, on the nature of gift-giving exchange (or reciprocity) as an alternative to market exchange. Economic Anthropology remains, for the most part, focused upon exchange. The school of thought derived from Marx and known as Political Economy focuses on production, in contrast. Economic anthropologists have abandoned the primitivist niche they were relegated to by economists, and have now turned to examine corporations, banks, and the global financial system from an anthropological perspective.\n\nPolitical economy in anthropology is the application of the theories and methods of Historical Materialism to the traditional concerns of anthropology, including, but not limited to, non-capitalist societies. Political economy introduced questions of history and colonialism to ahistorical anthropological theories of social structure and culture. Three main areas of interest rapidly developed. The first of these areas was concerned with the \"pre-capitalist\" societies that were subject to evolutionary \"tribal\" stereotypes. Sahlin's work on hunter-gatherers as the \"original affluent society\" did much to dissipate that image. The second area was concerned with the vast majority of the world's population at the time, the peasantry, many of whom were involved in complex revolutionary wars such as in Vietnam. The third area was on colonialism, imperialism, and the creation of the capitalist world-system. More recently, these political economists have more directly addressed issues of industrial (and post-industrial) capitalism around the world.\n\nApplied anthropology refers to the application of the method and theory of anthropology to the analysis and solution of practical problems. It is a \"complex of related, research-based, instrumental methods which produce change or stability in specific cultural systems through the provision of data, initiation of direct action, and/or the formulation of policy\". More simply, applied anthropology is the practical side of anthropological research; it includes researcher involvement and activism within the participating community. It is closely related to development anthropology (distinct from the more critical anthropology of development).\n\nAnthropology of development tends to view development from a \"critical\" perspective. The kind of issues addressed and implications for the approach simply involve pondering why, if a key development goal is to alleviate poverty, is poverty increasing? Why is there such a gap between plans and outcomes? Why are those working in development so willing to disregard history and the lessons it might offer? Why is development so externally driven rather than having an internal basis? In short, why does so much planned development fail?\n\n\"Kinship\" can refer both to \"the study of\" the patterns of social relationships in one or more human cultures, or it can refer to \"the patterns of social relationships\" themselves. Over its history, anthropology has developed a number of related concepts and terms, such as \"descent\", \"descent groups\", \"lineages\", \"affines\", \"cognates\", and even \"fictive kinship\". Broadly, kinship patterns may be considered to include people related both by descent (one's social relations during development), and also relatives by marriage.\n\nFeminist anthropology is a four field approach to anthropology (archeological, biological, cultural, linguistic) that seeks to reduce male bias in research findings, anthropological hiring practices, and the scholarly production of knowledge. Anthropology engages often with feminists from non-Western traditions, whose perspectives and experiences can differ from those of white European and American feminists. Historically, such 'peripheral' perspectives have sometimes been marginalized and regarded as less valid or important than knowledge from the western world. Feminist anthropologists have claimed that their research helps to correct this systematic bias in mainstream feminist theory. Feminist anthropologists are centrally concerned with the construction of gender across societies. Feminist anthropology is inclusive of birth anthropology as a specialization. \n\nThe first African-American female anthropologist and Caribbeanist is said to be Vera Mae Green who studied ethnic and family relations in the Caribbean as well as the United States, and thereby tried to improve the way black life, experiences, and culture were studied.\n\nMedical anthropology is an interdisciplinary field which studies \"human health and disease, health care systems, and biocultural adaptation\". It is believed that William Caudell was the first to discover the field of medical anthropology. Currently, research in medical anthropology is one of the main growth areas in the field of anthropology as a whole. It focuses on the following six basic fields:\nOther subjects that have become central to medical anthropology worldwide are violence and social suffering (Farmer, 1999, 2003; Beneduce, 2010) as well as other issues that involve physical and psychological harm and suffering that are not a result of illness. On the other hand, there are fields that intersect with medical anthropology in terms of research methodology and theoretical production, such as \"cultural psychiatry\" and \"transcultural psychiatry\" or \"ethnopsychiatry\".\n\nNutritional anthropology is a synthetic concept that deals with the interplay between economic systems, nutritional status and food security, and how changes in the former affect the latter. If economic and environmental changes in a community affect access to food, food security, and dietary health, then this interplay between culture and biology is in turn connected to broader historical and economic trends associated with globalization. Nutritional status affects overall health status, work performance potential, and the overall potential for economic development (either in terms of human development or traditional western models) for any given group of people.\n\nPsychological anthropology is an interdisciplinary subfield of anthropology that studies the interaction of cultural and mental processes. This subfield tends to focus on ways in which humans' development and enculturation within a particular cultural group—with its own history, language, practices, and conceptual categories—shape processes of human cognition, emotion, perception, motivation, and mental health. It also examines how the understanding of cognition, emotion, motivation, and similar psychological processes inform or constrain our models of cultural and social processes.\n\nCognitive anthropology seeks to explain patterns of shared knowledge, cultural innovation, and transmission over time and space using the methods and theories of the cognitive sciences (especially experimental psychology and evolutionary biology) often through close collaboration with historians, ethnographers, archaeologists, linguists, musicologists and other specialists engaged in the description and interpretation of cultural forms. Cognitive anthropology is concerned with what people from different groups know and how that implicit knowledge changes the way people perceive and relate to the world around them.\n\nTranspersonal anthropology studies the relationship between altered states of consciousness and culture. As with transpersonal psychology, the field is much concerned with altered states of consciousness (ASC) and transpersonal experience. However, the field differs from mainstream transpersonal psychology in taking more cognizance of cross-cultural issues—for instance, the roles of myth, ritual, diet, and texts in evoking and interpreting extraordinary experiences.\n\nPolitical anthropology concerns the structure of political systems, looked at from the basis of the structure of societies. Political anthropology developed as a discipline concerned primarily with politics in stateless societies, a new development started from the 1960s, and is still unfolding: anthropologists started increasingly to study more \"complex\" social settings in which the presence of states, bureaucracies and markets entered both ethnographic accounts and analysis of local phenomena. The turn towards complex societies meant that political themes were taken up at two main levels. Firstly, anthropologists continued to study political organization and political phenomena that lay outside the state-regulated sphere (as in patron-client relations or tribal political organization). Secondly, anthropologists slowly started to develop a disciplinary concern with states and their institutions (and on the relationship between formal and informal political institutions). An anthropology of the state developed, and it is a most thriving field today. Geertz' comparative work on \"Negara\", the Balinese state, is an early, famous example.\n\nLegal anthropology or anthropology of law specializes in \"the cross-cultural study of social ordering\". Earlier legal anthropological research often focused more narrowly on conflict management, crime, sanctions, or formal regulation. More recent applications include issues such as human rights, legal pluralism, and political uprisings.\n\nPublic anthropology was created by Robert Borofsky, a professor at Hawaii Pacific University, to \"demonstrate the ability of anthropology and anthropologists to effectively address problems beyond the discipline – illuminating larger social issues of our times as well as encouraging broad, public conversations about them with the explicit goal of fostering social change\".\n\nCyborg anthropology originated as a sub-focus group within the American Anthropological Association's annual meeting in 1993. The sub-group was very closely related to STS and the Society for the Social Studies of Science. Donna Haraway's 1985 \"Cyborg Manifesto\" could be considered the founding document of cyborg anthropology by first exploring the philosophical and sociological ramifications of the term. Cyborg anthropology studies humankind and its relations with the technological systems it has built, specifically modern technological systems that have reflexively shaped notions of what it means to be human beings.\n\nDigital anthropology is the study of the relationship between humans and digital-era technology, and extends to various areas where anthropology and technology intersect. It is sometimes grouped with sociocultural anthropology, and sometimes considered part of material culture. The field is new, and thus has a variety of names with a variety of emphases. These include techno-anthropology, digital ethnography, cyberanthropology, and virtual anthropology.\n\nEcological anthropology is defined as the \"study of cultural adaptations to environments\". The sub-field is also defined as, \"the study of relationships between a population of humans and their biophysical environment\". The focus of its research concerns \"how cultural beliefs and practices helped human populations adapt to their environments, and how their environment across space and time. The contemporary perspective of environmental anthropology, and arguably at least the backdrop, if not the focus of most of the ethnographies and cultural fieldworks of today, is political ecology. Many characterize this new perspective as more informed with culture, politics and power, globalization, localized issues, century anthropology and more. The focus and data interpretation is often used for arguments for/against or creation of policy, and to prevent corporate exploitation and damage of land. Often, the observer has become an active part of the struggle either directly (organizing, participation) or indirectly (articles, documentaries, books, ethnographies). Such is the case with environmental justice advocate Melissa Checker and her relationship with the people of Hyde Park.\n\nEthnohistory is the study of ethnographic cultures and indigenous customs by examining historical records. It is also the study of the history of various ethnic groups that may or may not exist today. Ethnohistory uses both historical and ethnographic data as its foundation. Its historical methods and materials go beyond the standard use of documents and manuscripts. Practitioners recognize the utility of such source material as maps, music, paintings, photography, folklore, oral tradition, site exploration, archaeological materials, museum collections, enduring customs, language, and place names.\n\nThe anthropology of religion involves the study of religious institutions in relation to other social institutions, and the comparison of religious beliefs and practices across cultures. Modern anthropology assumes that there is complete continuity between magical thinking and religion, and that every religion is a cultural product, created by the human community that worships it.\n\nUrban anthropology is concerned with issues of urbanization, poverty, and neoliberalism. Ulf Hannerz quotes a 1960s remark that traditional anthropologists were \"a notoriously agoraphobic lot, anti-urban by definition\". Various social processes in the Western World as well as in the \"Third World\" (the latter being the habitual focus of attention of anthropologists) brought the attention of \"specialists in 'other cultures'\" closer to their homes. There are two main approaches to urban anthropology: examining the types of cities or examining the social issues within the cities. These two methods are overlapping and dependent of each other. By defining different types of cities, one would use social factors as well as economic and political factors to categorize the cities. By directly looking at the different social issues, one would also be studying how they affect the dynamic of the city.\n\nAnthrozoology (also known as \"human–animal studies\") is the study of interaction between living things. It is an interdisciplinary field that overlaps with a number of other disciplines, including anthropology, ethology, medicine, psychology, veterinary medicine and zoology. A major focus of anthrozoologic research is the quantifying of the positive effects of human-animal relationships on either party and the study of their interactions. It includes scholars from a diverse range of fields, including anthropology, sociology, biology, and philosophy.\n\nBiocultural anthropology is the scientific exploration of the relationships between human biology and culture. Physical anthropologists throughout the first half of the 20th century viewed this relationship from a racial perspective; that is, from the assumption that typological human biological differences lead to cultural differences. After World War II the emphasis began to shift toward an effort to explore the role culture plays in shaping human biology.\n\nEvolutionary anthropology is the interdisciplinary study of the evolution of human physiology and human behaviour and the relation between hominins and non-hominin primates. Evolutionary anthropology is based in natural science and social science, combining the human development with socioeconomic factors. Evolutionary anthropology is concerned with both biological and cultural evolution of humans, past and present. It is based on a scientific approach, and brings together fields such as archaeology, behavioral ecology, psychology, primatology, and genetics. It is a dynamic and interdisciplinary field, drawing on many lines of evidence to understand the human experience, past and present.\n\nForensic anthropology is the application of the science of physical anthropology and human osteology in a legal setting, most often in criminal cases where the victim's remains are in the advanced stages of decomposition. A forensic anthropologist can assist in the identification of deceased individuals whose remains are decomposed, burned, mutilated or otherwise unrecognizable. The adjective \"forensic\" refers to the application of this subfield of science to a court of law.\n\nPaleoanthropology combines the disciplines of paleontology and physical anthropology. It is the study of ancient humans, as found in fossil hominid evidence such as petrifacted bones and footprints.\n\nContemporary anthropology is an established science with academic departments at most universities and colleges. The single largest organization of anthropologists is the American Anthropological Association (AAA), which was founded in 1903. Its members are anthropologists from around the globe.\n\nIn 1989, a group of European and American scholars in the field of anthropology established the European Association of Social Anthropologists (EASA) which serves as a major professional organization for anthropologists working in Europe. The EASA seeks to advance the status of anthropology in Europe and to increase visibility of marginalized anthropological traditions and thereby contribute to the project of a global anthropology or world anthropology.\n\nHundreds of other organizations exist in the various sub-fields of anthropology, sometimes divided up by nation or region, and many anthropologists work with collaborators in other disciplines, such as geology, physics, zoology, paleontology, anatomy, music theory, art history, sociology and so on, belonging to professional societies in those disciplines as well.\n\nAs the field has matured it has debated and arrived at ethical principles aimed at protecting both the subjects of anthropological research as well as the researchers themselves, and professional societies have generated codes of ethics.\n\nAnthropologists, like other researchers (especially historians and scientists engaged in field research), have over time assisted state policies and projects, especially colonialism.\n\nSome commentators have contended:\n\nAs part of their quest for scientific objectivity, present-day anthropologists typically urge cultural relativism, which has an influence on all the sub-fields of anthropology. This is the notion that cultures should not be judged by another's values or viewpoints, but be examined dispassionately on their own terms. There should be no notions, in good anthropology, of one culture being better or worse than another culture.\n\nEthical commitments in anthropology include noticing and documenting genocide, infanticide, racism, mutilation (including circumcision and subincision), and torture. Topics like racism, slavery, and human sacrifice attract anthropological attention and theories ranging from nutritional deficiencies to genes to acculturation have been proposed, not to mention theories of colonialism and many others as root causes of Man's inhumanity to man. To illustrate the depth of an anthropological approach, one can take just one of these topics, such as \"racism\" and find thousands of anthropological references, stretching across all the major and minor sub-fields.\n\nAnthropologists' involvement with the U.S. government, in particular, has caused bitter controversy within the discipline. Franz Boas publicly objected to US participation in World War I, and after the war he published a brief expose and condemnation of the participation of several American archaeologists in espionage in Mexico under their cover as scientists.\n\nBut by the 1940s, many of Boas' anthropologist contemporaries were active in the allied war effort against the Axis Powers (Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, and Imperial Japan). Many served in the armed forces, while others worked in intelligence (for example, Office of Strategic Services and the Office of War Information). At the same time, David H. Price's work on American anthropology during the Cold War provides detailed accounts of the pursuit and dismissal of several anthropologists from their jobs for communist sympathies.\n\nAttempts to accuse anthropologists of complicity with the CIA and government intelligence activities during the Vietnam War years have turned up surprisingly little. Many anthropologists (students and teachers) were active in the antiwar movement. Numerous resolutions condemning the war in all its aspects were passed overwhelmingly at the annual meetings of the American Anthropological Association (AAA).\n\nProfessional anthropological bodies often object to the use of anthropology for the benefit of the state. Their codes of ethics or statements may proscribe anthropologists from giving secret briefings. The Association of Social Anthropologists of the UK and Commonwealth (ASA) has called certain scholarship ethically dangerous. The AAA's current 'Statement of Professional Responsibility' clearly states that \"in relation with their own government and with host governments ... no secret research, no secret reports or debriefings of any kind should be agreed to or given.\"\n\nAnthropologists, along with other social scientists, are working with the US military as part of the US Army's strategy in Afghanistan. The \"Christian Science Monitor\" reports that \"Counterinsurgency efforts focus on better grasping and meeting local needs\" in Afghanistan, under the \"Human Terrain System\" (HTS) program; in addition, HTS teams are working with the US military in Iraq. In 2009, the American Anthropological Association's Commission on the Engagement of Anthropology with the US Security and Intelligence Communities released its final report concluding, in part, that, \"When ethnographic investigation is determined by military missions, not subject to external review, where data collection occurs in the context of war, integrated into the goals of counterinsurgency, and in a potentially coercive environment – all characteristic factors of the HTS concept and its application – it can no longer be considered a legitimate professional exercise of anthropology. In summary, while we stress that constructive engagement between anthropology and the military is possible, CEAUSSIC suggests that the AAA emphasize the incompatibility of HTS with disciplinary ethics and practice for job seekers and that it further recognize the problem of allowing HTS to define the meaning of \"anthropology\" within DoD.\"\n\nBefore WWII British 'social anthropology' and American 'cultural anthropology' were still distinct traditions. After the war, enough British and American anthropologists borrowed ideas and methodological approaches from one another that some began to speak of them collectively as 'sociocultural' anthropology.\n\nThere are several characteristics that tend to unite anthropological work. One of the central characteristics is that anthropology tends to provide a comparatively more holistic account of phenomena and tends to be highly empirical. The quest for holism leads most anthropologists to study a particular place, problem or phenomenon in detail, using a variety of methods, over a more extensive period than normal in many parts of academia.\n\nIn the 1990s and 2000s, calls for clarification of what constitutes a culture, of how an observer knows where his or her own culture ends and another begins, and other crucial topics in writing anthropology were heard. These dynamic relationships, between what can be observed on the ground, as opposed to what can be observed by compiling many local observations remain fundamental in any kind of anthropology, whether cultural, biological, linguistic or archaeological.\n\nBiological anthropologists are interested in both human variation and in the possibility of human universals (behaviors, ideas or concepts shared by virtually all human cultures). They use many different methods of study, but modern population genetics, participant observation and other techniques often take anthropologists \"into the field,\" which means traveling to a community in its own setting, to do something called \"fieldwork.\" On the biological or physical side, human measurements, genetic samples, nutritional data may be gathered and published as articles or monographs.\n\nAlong with dividing up their project by theoretical emphasis, anthropologists typically divide the world up into relevant time periods and geographic regions. Human time on Earth is divided up into relevant cultural traditions based on material, such as the Paleolithic and the Neolithic, of particular use in archaeology. Further cultural subdivisions according to tool types, such as Olduwan or Mousterian or Levalloisian help archaeologists and other anthropologists in understanding major trends in the human past. Anthropologists and geographers share approaches to culture regions as well, since mapping cultures is central to both sciences. By making comparisons across cultural traditions (time-based) and cultural regions (space-based), anthropologists have developed various kinds of comparative method, a central part of their science.\n\nBecause anthropology developed from so many different enterprises (see History of anthropology), including but not limited to fossil-hunting, exploring, documentary film-making, paleontology, primatology, antiquity dealings and curatorship, philology, etymology, genetics, regional analysis, ethnology, history, philosophy, and religious studies, it is difficult to characterize the entire field in a brief article, although attempts to write histories of the entire field have been made.\n\nSome authors argue that anthropology originated and developed as the study of \"other cultures\", both in terms of time (past societies) and space (non-European/non-Western societies). For example, the classic of urban anthropology, Ulf Hannerz in the introduction to his seminal \"Exploring the City: Inquiries Toward an Urban Anthropology\" mentions that the \"Third World\" had habitually received most of attention; anthropologists who traditionally specialized in \"other cultures\" looked for them far away and started to look \"across the tracks\" only in late 1960s.\n\nNow there exist many works focusing on peoples and topics very close to the author's \"home\". It is also argued that other fields of study, like History and Sociology, on the contrary focus disproportionately on the West.\n\nIn France, the study of Western societies has been traditionally left to sociologists, but this is increasingly changing, starting in the 1970s from scholars like Isac Chiva and journals like \"Terrain\" (\"fieldwork\"), and developing with the center founded by Marc Augé (\"Le Centre d'anthropologie des mondes contemporains\", the Anthropological Research Center of Contemporary Societies).\n\nSince the 1980s it has become common for social and cultural anthropologists to set ethnographic research in the North Atlantic region, frequently examining the connections between locations rather than limiting research to a single locale. There has also been a related shift toward broadening the focus beyond the daily life of ordinary people; increasingly, research is set in settings such as scientific laboratories, social movements, governmental and nongovernmental organizations and businesses.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58210041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58210041", "title": "Aquae Calidae, Bulgaria", "text": "Aquae Calidae, Bulgaria\n\nAquae Calidae (Latin for warm waters), also known as Therma and Thermopolis in the Middle Ages, was an ancient town in Thrace located in the territory of today's Bulgarian port city of Burgas. It was built around thermal baths using the hot springs and became one of the most important spa centres of ancient times.\n\nThe site and baths of Aquae Calidae have been visited in the course of history by several important rulers from Philip II of Macedon to the Eastern Roman emperors Justinian I and Constantine IV, the Bulgarian ruler Terwel and the Ottoman Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent.\n\nAquae Calidae is shown on the Tabula Peutingeriana (edition of Konrad Miller, 1887).\n\nArchaeology has shown that the hot springs were already used in the Neolithic between the 6th and 5th millennium BC. The Thracians built a sanctuary of the Three Nymphs in the 1st millennium BC around the spring. In the 4th century BC Philip II of Macedon conquered the region and according to legend, he was a frequent guest here.\n\nThe over 4,000 coins found show the cosmopolitan nature of visitors from many regions of Europe as they originated from ancient Greece and Italy as well as from Kabyle, Mesambria (now Nessebar), Odessos, Histria, Tomis, Byzantium, Abdera, Maroneia and the islands of the Aegean, the oldest from Apollonia Pontica from the 5th century BC.\n\nThe first baths at the Sanctuary of the Three Nymphs originated when the Roman Empire under Lucullus conquered the region, during the Third Mithridatic War in 72 BC. Under Trajan (98-117) nearby Anchialos became the administrative centre of the region and the baths were expanded and extended with two more swimming pools. During this time the Via Pontica was built connecting Constantinople via Deultum, Anchialos, Aquae Calidae with Dorostorum and Sexaginta Prista on the Danube. Near the baths a road station (statio milliaria) was created with the name Aquae Calidae.\n\nThe Sanctuary of the Three Nymphs continued to exist next to the station and the Baths, and became known as the Nymphaeum of Anchialos. Under Septimius Severus in 209-211 three years of games and celebrations under the name of Severia Nymphaea took place in the baths. Games also took place in Aquae Calidae under the emperors Geta and Caracalla.\n\nJordanes, who lived in the 6th century, described in his work Getica the incursions of Gothic tribes on the southern Black Sea coast of Thrace in 270. He reported that the Goths, after the conquest of Anchialos, moved to hot springs (\"aquarum calidarum\") twelve miles from Anchialos and stayed there for several days to recover.\n\nThe baths were restored and expanded at the end of the 4th or early the 5th century. According to Procopius of Caesarea fortress walls were also built around the city under Emperor Justinian I as follows:\n\nThe Eastern Roman Emperor Tiberius II Constantine chose the city for the cure of a disease of his wife Anastasia. When this healing was successful in around 580, she gave the local church her imperial robes. In 584 the Avars under Khan Baian conquered Aquae Calidae, but Baian spared the baths at the request of his harem. In one of the churches of the city the Avars found the imperial robes of Anastasia and Baian took them and allegedly claimed control of the empire.\n\nThe first archaeological excavations were by Bogdan Filov in 1910. In the pools he found over 4,000 coins of various eras, jewelry and other everyday items dated from the 5th to the 13th century.\n\nSince 2008 large-scale excavation and reconstruction has taken place. By 2010, an area of more than 3,800 sq. m was uncovered, including the ancient thermal spas, the north gate and parts of the 5m thick city walls. \n\nThe city covered 10 sq. km and the walled part some 2 sq. km.\n\nIn July 2011, an area of 36,000 m² was declared an archaeological reserve.\n"}
{"id": "31555938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31555938", "title": "Basil Jones", "text": "Basil Jones\n\nWilliam Basil Jones (1822–1897) was a Welsh bishop and scholar who became the Bishop of St David's in 1874, holding the post until his death in 1897.\n\nJones was born on 1 January 1822 in Cheltenham to William Tilsey Jones of Gwynfryn and his wife Jane. He was educated at Shrewsbury School, under the tutelage of Samuel Hall and Benjamin Hall Kennedy from 1834 to 1841, becoming head boy in his final year. In 1842 he matriculated to Trinity College, Oxford. He was placed in the second class in his final school of \"literae humaniores\" and in 1845 he graduated BA, receiving his MA in 1847. In 1848 Jones was elected to a Michel fellowship at Queen's College, but in 1851 he exchanged it for a fellowship at University College, Oxford, which he held until 1857. During his time as a fellow at University College he became assistant tutor and bursar, and from 1858 through to 1865 was a lecturer in modern history and the classics. He left Oxford in 1865.\n\nDuring his time as a lecturer Jones married his first wife, Frances Charlotte Holworthy, second daughter of Samuel Holworthy, vicar of Croxall. They were married on 10 September 1856 and remained together until Frances' death on 21 September 1881; the couple remaining childless. Jones remarried on 2 December 1896, to Anne Loxdale. Anne bore him a son and two daughters and survived her husband.\n\nWhile at Oxford, Jones showed himself to have a keen interest in archaeological and architectural affairs. He is credited for the design of his parish church at Llangynfelyn. From 1848 through to 1851 he was one of the general secretaries of the Cambrian Archaeological Association, and then joint editor of its journal, \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\", in 1854. Jones was also secretary of the Oxford Architectural Society, and was part of a literary and philosophical society at Trinity known as \"Hermes\". The society included other notable Trinity students, George Bowen, William Gifford Palgrave and Edward Augustus Freeman, all of whom were friends of Jones. Of his friendships made at Oxford, the one that endured was that with William Thomson who was also a past student at Shrewsbury School at the same time as Jones. Jones had been ordained deacon in 1848, and a priest in 1853, but after Thomson was made Bishop of Gloucester in 1861 he made Jones his examining chaplain. When Thomson was elevated to the office of Archbishop of York the next year he ensured that Jones was always close as an advisor, ensuring he held important posts in the York diocese, and in 1865 was presented with the vicarage of Bishopthorpe, where the episcopal palace is situated. Jones was soon recognised as Thomson's 'right-hand man', and a series of favourable appointments followed, with Jones becoming the Archdeacon of York in 1867, the rural dean of Bishopthorpe in 1869 and the chancellor of York in 1871.\n\nIn 1874 Connop Thirlwall, the Bishop of St David's, resigned the see and Jones was appointed as his successor by Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli. His selection is believed to have been influenced by his scholarly work, his proven history as a clerical administrator, his past association with the Diocese of St David's and his ability, although limited, to speak Welsh. Jones in his earlier life had shown an interest in St David's Cathedral, raising a fund while at Oxford University for the restoration of the rood screen. He had also, along with his friend Edward Augustus Freeman, undertaken in writing an in-depth history of the cathedral.\n\nJones was consecrated bishop by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Archibald Tait, at Westminster Abbey on 14 August 1874, and was enthroned at St David's on 15 September of the same year. Jones, in his role as Bishop of St David's, continued the restoration work on existing churches but paid far more focus on the establishment of new mission churches; the number of churches consecrated by him annually was treble the figure of his predecessor. He also brought a far stricter regimen to the selection of candidates for ordination, requiring good testimonials, and preferring well educated men to those who were good orators. He also oversaw changes which saw the removal of non-resident posts, resulting in improvements in pastoral work. These improvements led to a progressive raising of the educational and spiritual standard of the ministry. After Jones' death, his successor, John Owen, wrote: 'The progress of the diocese during Bishop Jones' episcopate was far greater than the progress during any period of equal length since the Reformation', though it is recognised that much of his work built on reforms initiated by Thirlwall and before him Thomas Burgess.\n\nDuring his time as the Bishop of St David's, a proposed division of the diocese, then the largest in Wales, was initiated. Jones was unhappy with the suggestion, but he accepted a reduced income to the diocese on condition that the endowment left would be larger than that of the other Welsh diocese.\n\nIn his role of Bishop of St David's, Jones had wide ranging powers in the constitutional development of St David's College, Lampeter. Jones took this opportunity to enact the college with a complete code of statutes (1879) instead of the few provisional rules which it previously held. He also took an active part in the government of Christ's College, Brecon, becoming chairman of its board of governors in 1880.\n\nHe died at Abergwili Palace on 14 January 1897, and was buried six days later in the family vault at Llangynfelyn.\n\n"}
{"id": "22564916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22564916", "title": "Bezoar", "text": "Bezoar\n\nA bezoar is a mass found trapped in the gastrointestinal system, though it can occur in other locations. A pseudobezoar is an indigestible object introduced intentionally into the digestive system.\n\nThere are several varieties of bezoar, some of which have inorganic constituents and others organic. The term has both a modern (medical, scientific) and a traditional usage.\n\n\n\nBezoars had value because they were believed to have the power of a universal antidote against any poison. Tradition held that a drinking glass which contained a bezoar would neutralize any poison poured into it. The word \"bezoar\" comes from the Persian \"pād-zahr\" (), which literally means \"antidote.\"\n\nThe Andalusian physician Ibn Zuhr (d. 1161), known in the West as Avenzoar, is thought to have made the earliest description of bezoar stones as medicinal items. Extensive reference to bezoars also appears in the \"Picatrix\", which may have originated earlier.\n\nIn 1575, French surgeon Ambroise Paré described an experiment to test the properties of the bezoar stone. At the time, the bezoar stone was deemed able to cure the effects of any poison, but Paré believed this was impossible. It happened that a cook at King's court was caught stealing fine silver cutlery and was sentenced to death by hanging. The cook agreed to be poisoned instead. Ambroise Paré then used the bezoar stone to no great avail, as the cook died in agony seven hours after taking poison. Paré had proved that the bezoar stone could not cure all poisons, contrary to popular belief at the time.\n\nModern examinations of the properties of bezoars by Gustaf Arrhenius and Andrew A. Benson of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography have shown that they could, when immersed in an arsenic-laced solution, remove the poison. The toxic compounds in arsenic are arsenate and arsenite. Each is acted upon differently, but effectively, by bezoar stones. Arsenate is removed by being exchanged for phosphate in the mineral brushite, a crystalline structure found in the stones. Arsenite is found to bond to sulfur compounds in the protein of degraded hair, which is a key component in bezoars.\n\nA famous case in the common law of England (\"Chandelor v Lopus\", 79 Eng Rep. 3, Cro. Jac. 4, Eng. Ct. Exch. 1603) announced the rule of \"caveat emptor\" (\"let the buyer beware\") if the goods they purchased are not in fact genuine and effective. The case concerned a purchaser who sued for the return of the purchase price of an allegedly fraudulent bezoar. (The law report does not discuss how the plaintiff discovered that the bezoar did not work.)\n\nBezoars were important objects in cabinets of curiosity and natural history collections, especially for their use in early modern pharmacy and the study of animal health.\n\nThe \"Merck Manual of Diagnosis and Therapy\" notes that consumption of unripened persimmons has been identified as causing epidemics of intestinal bezoars, and that up to 90% of bezoars that occur from eating too much of the fruit require surgery for removal.\n\nA 2012 study recorded that a patient with a standard gastric bezoar was treated successfully with 2 weeks of administered Traditional Chinese Medicine, after which the stone was dissolved with no adverse side effects.\n\nA 2013 review of three databases identified 24 publications presenting 46 patients treated with Coca-Cola for phytobezoars. The cola was administered in doses of 500 mL to up to 3000 mL over 24 hours, orally or by gastric lavage. A total of 91.3% of patients had complete resolution after treatment with Coca-Cola: 50% after a single treatment, others requiring the cola plus endoscopic removal. Doctors resorted to surgical removal in four cases.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "14331536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14331536", "title": "Bijdragen tot de Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde", "text": "Bijdragen tot de Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde\n\nBijdragen tot de Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde (English title: \"Journal of the Humanities and Social Sciences of Southeast Asia and Oceania\") is a peer reviewed academic journal on Southeast Asia and Indonesia that was established in 1853 and was published by the Royal Netherlands Institute of Southeast Asian and Caribbean Studies. It was published as \"Bijdragen tot de taal-, land- en volkenkunde van Nederlandsch-Indië\" () between 1853 and 1948. The journal focuses in particular on linguistics, anthropology, and history of Southeast Asia, and more specifically of Indonesia. It appears quarterly, running a total of roughly 600 pages annually. The editor-in-chief is Freek Colombijn (Vrije Universiteit).\n\nBrill acquired the journal in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "32673959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32673959", "title": "Carl Johan Calleman", "text": "Carl Johan Calleman\n\nCarl Johan Calleman, (born 15 May 1950, Stockholm, Sweden), is a toxicologist as well as an author and speaker on the millenarian New Age interpretation of the Mayan calendar known as Mayanism. He differs from professional Mayanists in seeing 28 October 2011 and not 21 December 2012 as a significant date. Calleman does not interpret the date as an apocalypse, Armageddon, or other cataclysmic event but a slow transformation of consciousness in which people experience a higher \"unity consciousness.\"\n\nCalleman studied toxicology at the University of Stockholm in Sweden.\n\nHe first encountered the Mayan calendar on a visit to Mexico and Guatemala in 1979. He became fascinated with the concept of a calendar that had an \"end date\" and was influenced by the works of Michael D. Coe.\n\nIn 1986 he took a post at the Department of Environmental Health at the University of Washington in Seattle as a cancer researcher. As a result of work done in that post and in China he was appointed as an expert for the World Health Organization on cancer.\n\nIn 1993 he returned to Sweden and devoted himself full-time to researching and writing about the calendar. He published a short book in Swedish on the subject in 1994, \"Mayahypotesen\". In 1998 he was invited to be one of the main speakers at a conference about the Mayan calendar in Mérida, Yucatán. This inspired him to write a more widely accessible book, \"The Mayan Calendar\" published in 2001. A second popular book \"The Mayan Calendar and the Transformation of Consciousness\" followed in 2004, and a third \"Purposeful Universe: How Quantum Theory and Mayan Cosmology Explain the Origin and Evolution of Life \" in 2009.\n\nHe lives in Orsa, Sweden and lectures worldwide.\n\nCalleman's beliefs differ from other interpreters of the Mayan calendar and the 2012 phenomenon in that he sees the crucial date for change as 28 October 2011—not 21 December 2012—which he postulates will see the culmination of a series of nine waves of increasing frequency which have influenced, and continue to influence, the development and evolution of both the physical universe and human consciousness. His ideas represent a revival of theories of unilineal evolution.\n\nCalleman disagrees that 2012 represents the point of an alignment between the Earth's solstice and the galactic centre which he says would be a purely local phenomenon unique to the Earth and which in any case already occurred in 1998. Instead he sees the Mayan calendar as describing the creation process of the whole Universe.\n\nWithin the logic of the Mayan Long Count, he says, an auspicious end would have to be on a day which is 13 Ahau in the tzolkin count. Since 21 December 2012 falls on 4 Ahau this is an unlikely end date. The 28 October 2011 is a 13 Ahau date.\n\nBeginning with the Big Bang he believes creation has continued through a series of waves, each one a factor of 20 times shorter in duration than the one preceding it. Each wave has driven the structure of the universe to a higher level.\nThe first wave drove the creation of physical matter, the second living cells, the third multicellular life, the fourth organisms living in family groups, the fifth, saw humans in tribal groups, and the sixth in national groups. The seventh wave encompasses human awareness of the whole planet, and the eighth awareness of our place in the galactic structure. The final wave, the ninth and shortest of all, began on 8 March 2011 and will complete along with all the others on 28 October 2011 sees awareness of the whole of the cosmos achieved. Rather than the series ending with an Apocalypse he describes it as the completion of the creation process of the Universe. The way will then be open to the full realisation of consciousness at its highest level which he terms \"Unity consciousness\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26246590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26246590", "title": "Color symbolism", "text": "Color symbolism\n\nColor symbolism in art and anthropology refers to the use of color as a symbol in various cultures. There is great diversity in the use of colors and their associations between cultures and even within the same culture in different time periods. The same color may have very different associations within the same culture at any time. Diversity in color symbolism occurs because color meanings and symbolism occur on an individual, cultural and universal basis. Color symbolism is also context-dependent and influenced by changes over time. Symbolic representations of religious concepts or articles may include a specific color with which the concept or object is associated. There is evidence to suggest that colors have been used for this purpose as early as 90,000 BC.\n\nRed is often associated with love, passion, and lust. It is frequently used in relation to Valentine's Day. It can also be used to signify danger or warning. For instance, it is used for stop signs and fire engines. In China, red is often used to symbolize good luck or happiness, and is used for many holidays or weddings.\n\nBlue is the color of the ocean and the sky; it often symbolizes serenity, stability, or inspiration. It can be a calming color, and symbolize reliability. In the Catholic Church, the Virgin Mary is most often depicted wearing blue, to symbolize her divinity. Blue is widely used for baby boys' clothes or bedrooms, although the reason blue is so strongly associated with boys is debated.\n\nYellow is a color often associated with sunshine or joy. It is sometimes used in association with cowardice or fear, i.e, the phrase \"yellow-bellied\". Children tend to like this color, and it is used to market products to children; it is also used for school buses and taxi cabs since it is such a bright, noticeable color.\n\nGreen is most often used to represent nature, healing, or fertility, since it's such a dominant color in nature. It can be a very relaxing color but is also used in the US to symbolize money, greed, or jealousy. Saying that someone is \"green\" means they're inexperienced or new.\n\nBlack, in Western culture, is considered a negative color and usually symbolizes death, grief, or evil. People often wear black for mourning, although this practice isn't as wide-spread as it was in the past.\n\nWhite most often symbolizes perfection, faith, innocence, softness, and cleanliness. Brides often wear white dresses to symbolize virginity or purity.\n\nPink is associated with softness, femininity, sweetness, and love. However, it was formerly used as a masculine color, frequently used for baby boys; it wasn't until the early 20th century that the gender roles of pink and blue were reversed.\n\nColor plays an important role in setting expectations for a product and communicating its key characteristics. Color is the second most important element that allows consumers to identify brand packaging.\n\nMarketers for products with an international market navigate the color symbolism variances between cultures with targeted advertising. The car manufacturer, Volkswagen ran a commercial in Italy with a black sheep in the middle of a larger flock symbolizing those who owned a VW Golf as someone unique and self-assured among a crowd of others who were not. In several cultures around the world, a black sheep represents an outcast and is seen as something undesirable. In Italy, a black sheep represents confidence and independence. There are many additional variances in color symbolism between cultures. Cold is symbolized by blue in East Asia, the USA, and Sweden while warmth is symbolized by yellow in the USA and by blue in The Netherlands. Sometimes the meanings of colors are in stark opposition across geographic boundaries, requiring products marketed to specific demographics to account for those changes across different markets. For instance, feminity is symbolized by blue in The Netherlands and pink in the USA., whereas masculinity is symbolized by blue in Sweden and the USA, and red in the UK and France. In some instances color symbolism in marketing is constructed. For companies whose products are defined by the name of their color their sales are susceptible to the symbolism and association of that name. In one example, a company selling a paint color named “off white” more than doubled its sales by renaming the same color as “ancient silk.”\n\nColor symbolism has morphed over time. Between the 5th and 17th centuries color was largely related to in a religious context. Blue was symbolic of heaven and white of purity. Today, purity is still symbolized by white in Australia and the USA but by blue in other countries like India. Similarly, the church influenced the perception of colors like crimson and purple. Largely because the dyes for these colors could only be sourced from precious pigments, religious figures like Madonna, Cardinals, and the Virgin were seen in scarlet and purple. Today, purple symbolizes evil and infidelity in Japan, but the same is symbolized by blue in East Asia and by yellow in France. Additionally, the sacred color of Hindu and Buddhist monks is orange. The Renaissance was also a time in which black and purple were colors of mourning. Today, Mourning or death is symbolized by white in East Asia, black in the USA, and blue in Iran, while happiness is symbolized by white in Australia and NZ, and yellow in China.\n\nThere is a general disagreement over whether reactions to color and their symbolism are a result of cultural conditioning or of instinct. Several studies concluded that color is part of the social learning process because of the significant symbolism within the culture. High quality, trustworthiness and dependability are symbolized by blue in the USA, Japan, Korea and green and yellow in China - as well as purple in China, South Korea and Japan. Because of these variances, critical cues vary across cultures. Warning signs are coded differently as danger is symbolized by green in Malaysia, and red in the USA and Mexico. The same color of green symbolizes envy in Belgium and the USA, but envy is symbolized by yellow in Germany and Russia, and purple in Mexico. Even the colors that denote powerful emotions vary. Love is symbolized by green in Japan, red and purple in China, Korea, Japan and the USA. Unluckiness is symbolized by red in Chad, Nigeria and Germany. Luckiness is symbolized by red in China, Denmark and Argentina. The traditional bridal color is red in China and white in the USA. Ambition and desire are symbolized by red in India.\n\nColor has different meanings in different countries.  We can specifically look at the Arabic culture and take it into consideration. We can start with the color white. In the Arabic culture, white is thought of as the color that is symbolic for nature.  Since it related with nature, it has a meaning that is one of positivity. It also relates with that of being clean and pure.  White is a color that is commonly worn during prayers and with that, it symbolizes purity. White’s positive connotation carries out into other aspects.  It is also used as a symbol for positivity in the future. White is also used to symbolize the end of war. You will also see women adorn white at their weddings as a sign of positivity.  Since doves are white, they share the symbolic meaning that comes with the color.  This in turn causes them to be associated with positivity of good news. \n\nWhen you look at the color Black in Arabic culture you can find that it is related to funerals and death. Women will often wear black to funerals in order to show that they are sad for those who have passed.  Also relating to death, black is associated with hell. Black is also used to symbolize dark.  Hell is thought to be a dark black place associating black as negative.  Black in general is looked at as having negative connotations around it. For example, the symbolism of a black heart refers to someone who is unkind.  \n\nGreen is a color that is commonly found in Islam.  It is a color found in nature and with this, it is associated with and represents goodness. Green is a color that has an overall positive meaning.   The color green also has to do with truthfulness, again going with positivity.  If you look at phrases, the symbolic meanings are generally positive.  If you look at the phrase green hand, it relates to being generous which is a positive thing. \n\nRed has an overall positive association with it. Often you will find that red is a color associated with roses and blood.  The color red has to do with love and passion.  In sayings you can find it to have either a negative or positive meaning such as the term red eye relates with anger.  The Arabic culture also associates this color with death.\n\nBlue is related with positivity when discussing it with nature, otherwise it can be related with negative connotations. When used in the phrase blue eyes, it refers to jealousy. A blue body relates with death and therefore is associated with negativity.\n\nYellow is another color that is also associated with nature and the sun.  Again, since it is a color related with nature, it takes on the symbolic meaning of positivity.  Gold is also categorized under here and is also takes on a positive meaning.  Generally, when used in phrases, the color yellow has to do with negativity.  For example, a yellow smile means to be mean. \n\nColor symbolism is displayed in many ways. One of the most common ways we see color symbolism displayed in through our emotions. In this article Color-emotions associations: Past experience and personal preference it takes a look at how we connect colors with our emotions and how it depends on a person’s preference and or their past experiences. \n\n"}
{"id": "50165370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50165370", "title": "Contract (canon law)", "text": "Contract (canon law)\n\nThe canon law of contract follows that of the civil jurisdiction in which canon law operates. (Latin \"contractus\"; Old French \"contract\"; Modern French \"contrat\"; Italian \"contratto\").\n\nSometimes canon law makes the civil law (the law of civil society) its own, giving it the same effect in canon law as if it had actually been promulgated by canonical leglislators, subject to the \"proviso\" that such civil law does not contravene divine law. This should be considered more than \"a mere recognition\" of secular law; such secular law \"is made into canon law.\"\n\nContract law is an area of civil jurisprudence which the 1983 Code \"canonizes\". If a contract is valid in civil law, it is valid in canon law also. If a contract is rendered invalid by civil law, it is thereby rendered invalid in canon law as well.\nPrior to the 1917 Code, canon law required that the Roman law of obligations be observed when ecclesiastical moral persons (termed \"juridic persons\" in the 1983 Code, except for the Holy See and the Catholic Church as such) entered into contracts. Canon 1529 of the 1917 Code made a shift regarding contract law, recognizing the civil law binding in the particular territory in which a contract was made as binding in canon law as well (with certain exceptions).\n\nThe legal capacity of physical and juridic persons to contract comes from canon law itself, however, and not from civil law, even though the provisions of the civil contract law are observed in canon law with the same effects.\n\nCanon law, therefore, cannot be said to have a universal contractual law.\n\nThe canonical and moralist doctrine on this subject is a development of that contained in the Roman civil law. In Roman law a mere agreement between two parties to give, do, or refrain from doing something was a nude pact (\"pactum nudum\") which gave rise to no civil obligation, and no action lay to enforce it. It needed to be clothed in some investitive fact which the law recognized in order to give rise to a civil obligation which should be enforced at law. Not that the nude pact was considered to be destitute of all binding force; it gave rise to a natural obligation, and it might afford ground for a legal exception. A man of honour would keep his engagements even if he knew that the law could not be invoked to compel him to do so. Moral theology, being the science of Christian conduct, could not be satisfied with the mere legal view of the effect of an agreement. If the agreement had all other requisites for a valid contract, moral theology must necessarily consider it to be binding, even though it was a nude pact and could not be enforced in the courts of law. Canon law made this moral attitude its own. In the \"Decretals of Gregory IX\" it is expressly laid down that pacts, however nude, must be kept, and that a strenuous endeavour must be made to put in execution what one has promised. It thus came to pass that nude pacts could be enforced in the Christian courts, and the Church's legislation served eventually to break down the rigid formalism of Roman law, and to prepare the way for the more equitable law of contract which all Christian nations now possess.\n\nIn the canonical and moral doctrine there is hardly room for the distinction between a nude pact, or mere agreement, and a contract. The Roman jurist's definition of the former is frequently used by canonists to define contract. They say that a contract is the consent of two or more persons to the same proposal; or, bringing out a little more definitely the effect and object of a contract, they define it to be an agreement by which two or more persons mutually bind themselves to give, do, or abstain from something. \n\nFrom the moralist's point of view, then, every agreement seriously entered into by those who are capable of contracting with reference to some lawful object is a contract, whether such agreement can be enforced in the civil courts or not. The intention of the parties is looked at, and if they seriously intended to bind themselves, there is a contractual relation between them.\n\nThis doctrine, however, gives rise to a question of some importance. The Church fully admits and defends the right of the State to make laws for the temporal well-being of its citizens. All States require certain formalities for the validity of certain actions. Last wills and testaments are a familiar example, and although they are not strictly contracts, yet the principle is the same and they will serve for an example of what is meant. A deed, the only formal contract of English law, is another example. \n\nA will destitute of the requisite formalities is null and void at law; but what is the effect of such a voiding law in the forum of conscience? This question has been much debated among moralists. \n\nSome have maintained that such a law is binding in the internal as well as in the external forum, so that a formal contract, destitute of the formalities required by law, is null and void in conscience as it is in law. \n\nOthers adopted the contrary opinion, and held that the want of formality only affected the external forum of civil law, and left intact the natural obligation arising from a contract. \n\nThe common opinion takes a middle course. It holds that the want of formality, though it makes the contract void in the eyes of the law, renders it only voidable in the forum of conscience; so that, until one of the parties moves to set the contract aside, it remains valid, and anyone deriving benefit under it may enjoy his benefit in peace. If, however, the party interested moves to set it aside, and does so effectively by having recourse to the court of law if necessary, both must then abide by the law which makes the contract void and of no effect.\n\n"}
{"id": "17633535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17633535", "title": "Corpse Princess", "text": "Corpse Princess\n\nFeel and Gainax partnered together to adapt the series into a thirteen episode anime series. The first season, , aired on October 2, 2008 on AT-X and finished on December 25, 2008. A second season, , aired between January and March 2009. The anime is licensed for North American distribution and release by Funimation Entertainment, which has released the episodes in subtitled form as \"Shikabane Hime\" through various online distribution companies and through its own website.\n\nThe series made its North American television debut on the FUNimation Channel on November 15, 2010.\n\nAfter being murdered, Makina Hoshimura turns into a living \"Shikabane Hime\" (\"Corpse Princess\"). Armed with dual MAC-11 submachine guns, she must kill 108 other Shikabane in order to gain entry into heaven. She is assisted in this task by Keisei Tagami, a Buddhist monk with links to an anti-corpse group known as the Kōgon Sect. Her ultimate goal is to avenge the death of her family, by destroying the Shikabane known as the Seven Stars.\n\nThe Seven Stars is a group of seven Shikabane who worked together for a common goal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe manga series premiered in Japan in the April 12, 2005 issue of \"Monthly Shōnen Gangan\" where it is still on-going. Individual chapters are collected and published in \"tankōbon\" volumes by Square Enix. The first volume was released on August 22, 2005; as of November 2014, twenty-three volumes have been released. A limited edition version of volume 17 including a drama CD was released in April 2012. Yen Press announced during their Anime Expo 2015 panel that they have licensed the manga in a digital format.\n\nProduced by Feel and Gainax, is a thirteen episode anime adaptation of the manga series. It premiered in Japan on AT-X on October 2, 2008. The episodes also air on BS11, Chiba TV, KBS Kyoto, Sun TV, Tokyo MX, TV Aichi, TV Kanagawa and TV Saitama. The opening and ending themes, \"Beautiful fighter\" and \"My story\", had a single release from angela on November 12, 2008.\n\nThe series is licensed for North American distribution and release by Funimation Entertainment which is releasing the series as \"Shikabane Hime\". On October 24, 2008, the thirteen episodes began airing online with English subtitles through Funimation's official YouTube, Joost, and Hulu.com channels, with higher end downloadable versions released on the company's own website. Funimation noted that they hope this relatively quick release through online means will help prevent piracy. Traditionally, according to the president of Funimation Entertainment Gen Fukunaga, \"by the time a licensing deal is signed to bring a series from Japan to the U.S. the episodes are already available as illegal downloads.\" On January 18, 2011, British anime distributor Manga Entertainment announced that they will release the first season \"Aka\", on DVD in 2011.\n\nA second season, titled , aired in Japan between January and March 2009. Episode 26 of the series, or \"Kuro\" 13, was released as a DVD only episode in August 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "26204033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26204033", "title": "Dialectica", "text": "Dialectica\n\nDialectica is a quarterly philosophy journal published by Blackwell. The journal was founded in 1947 by Gaston Bachelard, Paul Bernays and Ferdinand Gonseth. Dialectica is edited in Switzerland and has a focus on analytical philosophy. The journal is the official journal of the European Society for Analytic Philosophy. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "438454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=438454", "title": "Double Dare (Nickelodeon game show)", "text": "Double Dare (Nickelodeon game show)\n\nDouble Dare is an American television game show on which two teams compete to win cash and prizes by answering trivia questions and completing messy stunts known as physical challenges. It originally ran from 1986 to 1993. A revival ran in 2000, and a new revival began on June 25, 2018.\n\nHosted by Marc Summers, the program originally premiered on Nickelodeon on October 6, 1986, as its first game show. The series saw many adjustments in scheduling and titling throughout its run. Almost immediately after its debut, \"Double Dare\" had more than tripled viewership for Nickelodeon’s afternoon lineup, becoming the most-watched original daily program on cable television. The program was a major success for Nickelodeon, helping to establish the network as a major player in cable television, and to revitalize the genre of game shows for children. \"Double Dare\" remains Nickelodeon's longest-running game show. In January 2001, \"TV Guide\" ranked the show number 29 on its list of 50 Greatest Game Shows.\n\nA continuation for syndication premiered on February 22, 1988, later revamped as \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" on January 22, 1989. The program also had a short run on Fox as \"Family Double Dare\", airing from April 3 to July 23, 1988. Nickelodeon continued \"Family Double Dare\", premiering a new version on October 6, 1990. The original series ended on February 6, 1993. The series was revived, hosted by Jason Harris, and titled \"Double Dare 2000\"; this aired from January 22 to November 10, 2000. A second revival of the series, hosted by Liza Koshy and featuring Marc Summers, premiered on June 25, 2018.\n\nEach team on the original \"Double Dare\" and \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" consisted of two children, while teams on \"Family Double Dare\" and \"Double Dare 2000\" included two adults and two children. Originally, both teams wore red uniforms, but after \"Double Dare\" entered syndication in 1988, one team wore blue uniforms while the other wore red.\n\nEach round begins with a toss-up physical challenge in which both teams compete, with the winning team receiving both initial control of the round, and money for their score. After the toss-up, the host begins asking trivia questions of the team in control. Each correct answer earns a monetary award, and allows the team to maintain control, while an incorrect answer, or failure to respond within approximately ten seconds turns control over to the opponents. However, the team can dare their opponents to answer the question, doubling its value; in response, the opponents can double dare for quadruple the original value. When the team in control is challenged to a double dare, they have to either answer or compete in a physical challenge. An incorrect answer, or not responding within approximately five seconds on a dare or double dare, awards both control and the appropriate amount of money to the team that issues it. The second round plays the same as the first, with question values doubled. On the original \"Double Dare\" and \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\", a question was initially worth $10. On \"Family Double Dare\" and \"Double Dare 2000\", a question was initially worth $25. On the 2018 \"Double Dare\", a question is initially worth $50.\n\nAfter the toss-up at the start of the first round, the host explains the rules as follows:\n\nPhysical challenges are often messy stunts that a team has to perform in a specified time, usually 20 or 30 seconds, although occasionally 10 or 15 seconds. All physical challenges on \"Double Dare 2000\" were 30 seconds in length, unless a time reduction was in play due to the Triple Dare Challenge. The team wins money and retained control for completing the stunt. Otherwise, the money and control pass to their opponents.\n\nMany challenges have involved filling a container past a line with one of a variety of substances including water, uncooked rice, green slime, whipped cream, and milk. Others involve catching a specific number of items before time runs out. For example, during \"Pies in the Pants,\" a contestant has to catch a set number of pies in a pair of oversized clown pants within the specified time limit, while their teammate launches the pies from a foot-operated catapult at the opposite end of the stage.\n\nOn the original \"Double Dare\" and \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\", both contestants on a team competed in all physical challenges. For the 1988 version of \"Family Double Dare\", all four members of a team competed in the challenges. On the 1990–93 version of \"Family Double Dare\" and on \"Double Dare 2000\", two members of a team competed in round one, and all four members competed in round two. All members of a team competed in physical challenges on the 2018 \"Double Dare\".\n\n\"Double Dare 2000\" introduced the Triple Dare Challenge. Available only in round two, this allowed a team to make their physical challenge more difficult, increasing its value by $100, and putting a bonus prize at stake. Difficulties included reducing the time limit, adding an extra item to the stunt, or increasing the overall difficulty of the stunt. The actual modifier was not revealed unless the team decided to accept the challenge. If the team did not complete the challenge successfully, the money, prize, and control went to their opponents.\n\nThe team with the highest score at the end of round two goes on to the bonus round, the obstacle course (renamed the Slopstacle Course for \"Double Dare 2000\"). From the original \"Double Dare\" through \"Double Dare 2000\" both teams keep all money earned, regardless of the outcome. Only the winning team on the 2018 version gets to keep their money. \n\nThe course consists of eight obstacles which have to be completed within 60 seconds. Each obstacle has an orange flag either at its end or hidden within it. One team member runs the first obstacle, then passes its flag to a partner, who then moves on to the next obstacle. The team continues to alternate in this manner until they have completed the course or until time expires. For safety reasons, team members are given helmets, elbow pads, and knee pads to wear while running the course.\n\nMany obstacles have appeared in the course rotation, often based on body parts, food, and enlarged items found in daily life. Popular elements of the obstacle course have included The One-Ton Human Hamster Wheel, an oversized hamster wheel; Pick It, a giant human nose with a flag hidden inside; The Sundae Slide, a chocolate-covered ramp leading to a playground slide with ice cream at the bottom; and Gum Drop, which required contestants to leap into a giant gumball machine filled with plastic balls and slide out through the dispensing hatch at the bottom.\n\nThe team wins a prize for each obstacle completed, escalating in value up to a grand prize for completing the entire course. Two-person teams split the cash earnings, and both contestants receive the same prize for each obstacle. Prizes have included televisions, concert tickets, encyclopedias, electronics, gift certificates, non-motorized modes of transportation and, on the Fox \"Family Double Dare\", cash. On the original and \"Super Sloppy\" versions, the grand prize was usually a vacation or an experience at Space Camp. All eight prizes were usually worth a total of between $3,000 and $4,000, with some episodes featuring a prize package nearing $10,000. On the Fox \"Family Double Dare\", as well as the first season of the Nickelodeon run, the grand prize was a vehicle, making all eight prizes worth between $15,000 and $25,000. Once again, the grand prize was typically a vacation for the second season of Nickelodeon's \"Family Double Dare\", \"Double Dare 2000\" and the 2018 \"Double Dare\", with grand prize packages on the 2018 version having a value of more than $6,000.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Nickelodeon was approached by production and consulting groups with the idea of doing a game show for children, a first for the network. Nickelodeon conducted focus groups and concluded that children enjoyed watching game shows with adults, but they did not have a game show targeted at their demographic. Dee LaDuke, Robert Mittenthal, Michael Klinghoffer, and Geoffrey Darby worked to develop a new format, basing it on a combination of trivia, truth or dare, and the board game Mouse Trap. The pilot presentation was recorded in May 1986, hosted by Darby. \"Double Dare\" was green-lighted and announced in June 1986.\n\nInitial candidates to host the program included Soupy Sales, host of children's variety shows in the 1950s and 1960s, and comedian Dana Carvey. After Nickelodeon determined Sales to be too old for the role, and Carvey was offered a chance to audition for \"Saturday Night Live\", the search for a host continued. Producers viewed over 1,000 applicants from New York or Los Angeles. First attending a tryout in lieu of a friend, and later passing multiple auditions, television warm-up comedian Marc Summers was one of two finalists advancing to a final audition. Each hosted a mock game for Nickelodeon to make an ultimate decision on who would host \"Double Dare\". The producers felt the way Summers ended the game by leading into a commercial break was more professional and he was hired for the position in the first week of September 1986. Because focus groups showed that the audience thought he was more than 10 years younger than he actually was, Summers, then 34 years old, was obligated by Nickelodeon for years to not mention his age publicly.\n\nIn need of an announcer, \"Double Dare\" producers were made aware of Philadelphia-area radio host John Harvey, known on-air as Harvey, whose \"Harvey in the Morning\" program on WIOQ had been canceled months earlier. He accepted the offer to be announcer of the program. Stage assistants also appeared on-camera on \"Double Dare\", initially only assisting in setting up physical challenges and obstacles, but expanding the role as the series continued to sometimes interacting with Summers, demonstrating challenges, and modeling prizes. Robin Marrella and Dave Shikiar were the two permanent stage assistants when the program began.\n\nJames Fenhagen and Byron Taylor created the original stage design for \"Double Dare.\" The design for the original series' set was inspired by a 1980s Italian postmodern design and architecture group known as the Memphis Group. Glass brick walls and yellow and pink, often in a checkerboard pattern, were prominent aspects of the set design. Highlighted by blue and yellow tile-style floors, Geoffrey Darby gave the direction for the set to look like a \"natatorium\" (swimming pool), while Robert Mittenthal feels its inspiration is derived from a bathroom. All the original \"Double Dare\" music was composed by Edd Kalehoff.\n\nProduction originated at the studios of PBS affiliate WHYY-TV in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. WHYY offered Nickelodeon their newly opened production wing to use, and Nickelodeon felt Philadelphia was a better location to initially produce \"Double Dare\" because of its lower production costs, instead of cities like New York or Los Angeles where national television production is more common. The 65-episode first season was recorded in a 23-day period beginning September 18, 1986. \"Double Dare\" premiered on Nickelodeon on October 6, 1986. New episodes aired weekdays at 5:30p.m. ET during the original series' run on Nickelodeon. After the success of the first 65 episodes, a second 65-episode season was ordered.\nA weekend edition titled \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" began taping in July 1987 and premiered August 2, 1987, with an initial 26-episode run. \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" featured gameplay identical to the original format; however, physical challenges and obstacles were designed to make a bigger mess. Viewers were encouraged to send in a postcard with their contact information and could win a prize if their card was selected, and a team performing a physical challenge completed the stunt successfully. Episodes of \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" were taped at Unitel Studio in New York City before production moved back to WHYY-TV.\n\nIn July 1987, pilots hosted by Bruce Jenner were produced by Viacom for two possible versions of \"Double Dare\" with adult players: one pairing celebrities with contestants, and another with married couples. Neither concept advanced to a full series.\n\nBy November 1987, Fox announced they had partnered with Viacom to purchase the distribution rights for new episodes of the program in syndication. New episodes of \"Double Dare\" aired on independent stations and Fox affiliates beginning on February 22, 1988. There were 130 first-run syndication episodes in 1988.\n\nA 13-episode Saturday night edition titled \"Family Double Dare\" aired on Fox from April 3 to July 23, 1988. Teams on this version consisted of four family members, most often a mother, father, and two children. The budget was increased, and the prize total featured during the obstacle course was larger than that featured on the Nickelodeon series. A further 13 episodes of \"Family Double Dare\" were then ordered, but Fox canceled the series shortly before production was to begin because of \"creative differences.\"\n\nOn January 5, 1989, production began on a new version of \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" from Philadelphia at WHYY-TV, continuing in syndication. The series premiered on January 22, 1989. The second half of the series was produced at Universal Studios in Orlando, Florida, with production beginning in April 1989. This version of the show recorded in larger studios with a larger set allowed for a lower level devoted to physical challenges and obstacles with a bigger size and, typically, bigger messes. Many episodes in this part of the series featured unique and offbeat themes that questions, challenges, and sometimes wardrobe would be patterned after. Themes included a Salute to Baseball, Backwards Day, Stupid Hat Day, a Salute to Breakfast, and two Super-Slop-a-Mania episodes featuring wrestlers and personalities from the World Wrestling Federation. Another special episode saw Summers and Harvey each team with a contestant to compete against each other, with Jim J. Bullock taking over hosting duties. By the end of \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\", the program was syndicated to 154 stations. The series left syndication on September 8, 1989.\n\n\"Family Double Dare\" returned to Nickelodeon on August 13, 1990, first airing repeats of the Fox version. A \"Salute to Double Dare\" special aired September 2, 1990, with Summers, Harvey, and Marrella highlighting moments from \"Double Dare\", discussing its popularity, and previewing the upcoming \"Family Double Dare\". Nickelodeon launched its own version of \"Family Double Dare\" on weekends beginning October 6, 1990. Nickelodeon produced the series at the newly-opened Nickelodeon Studios on the Universal Studios Florida grounds in Orlando. Production began in July 1990 and ended on July 24, 1992, with 80 episodes taped over two seasons. Between the production cycles of \"Family Double Dare\", two special episodes of \"Double Dare\" were recorded in January 1992: \"NBA All-Star Double Dare\" with National Basketball Association alumni and \"Super Special Double Dare\" with members of the casts of \"Clarissa Explains It All\" and \"Welcome Freshmen\".\n\nJamie Bojanowski and Chris Miles joined Robin Marrella as stage assistants for \"Family Double Dare\", replacing Dave Shikiar who left the series between the ending of \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" in 1989 and the beginning of \"Family Double Dare\" in 1990 to pursue production opportunities on other programs like \"The Home Show\" and \"Wild & Crazy Kids\". In order to spend time with his wife and his newborn son Caleb, Harvey did not announce the last season of \"Family Double Dare\" in 1992. He was replaced as announcer by Doc Holliday, an Orlando-area radio host on WXXL's \"Doc & Johnny in the Morning\". Harvey made a cameo appearance on the final episode of the season and the series.\n\n\"Family Double Dare\" concluded on February 6, 1993, with a one-hour Tournament of Champions episode. The episode featured a \"brains vs. brawn\" mini-tournament where the two families from the final season who answered the most questions correctly played against each other, and the two families from the final season with the fastest obstacle course times played against each other. The winners of those games competed to determine the 1993 \"Family Double Dare\" champions. Physical challenges from \"Double Dare\" appeared on \"Nickelodeon All-Star Challenge\", a three-part special combining elements from many of Nickelodeon's game shows, airing on October 3, 1994.\n\nRepeats of the original \"Double Dare\" continued to air on Nickelodeon until March 15, 1991, and returned to Nickelodeon's schedule again from June 12 to September 30, 1994. Repeats of \"Family Double Dare\" remained on the Nickelodeon schedule until January 31, 1999. At this time, development began for the revival that would become \"Double Dare 2000\".\n\n\"Double Dare\" has spawned versions in foreign countries throughout the world, including: Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, The Netherlands, Germany, India, and Brazil. Six episodes of the Australian version recorded for American consumption, one featuring an American team competing against an Australian team, aired on Nickelodeon during a special marathon on September 3, 1990. Repeats of all versions of \"Double Dare\" aired in various cycles on Nickelodeon Games and Sports for Kids from the network's inception in 1999 until its closure in 2009. Since 2011, \"Double Dare\" has been incorporated into the branding of TeenNick's classic Nickelodeon blocks The '90s Are All That, and its successor, NickSplat (previously known as The Splat). Episodes of \"Double Dare\" have occasionally aired in these blocks.\n\nOn December 20, 1999, Nickelodeon announced a revival of the original \"Double Dare\" show, titled \"Double Dare 2000\". Production began on January 5, 2000, and the show broadcast its first episode later that same month on January 22, 2000, now hosted by Jason Harris with Tiffany Phillips as announcer. Additional episodes were taped in July of the same year. Eileen Braun, who worked on the original \"Double Dare\" as a production assistant and a production coordinator, was the executive producer for \"Double Dare 2000\". Marc Summers advised on production as an executive consultant. Tia Schroeder and Will Finley worked on \"Double Dare 2000\" as stage assistants.\n\n\"Double Dare 2000\" followed the \"Family Double Dare\" format with a revamped set and bigger physical challenges. It also featured the new Triple Dare Challenge option in round two, and referred to the obstacle course as the Slopstacle Course. In association with Sony and National Mobile Television, five episodes of \"Double Dare 2000\" were produced in high-definition with a aspect ratio. The episodes were broadcast in a letterboxed format as Nickelodeon did not broadcast in high-definition until 2008. The music for \"Double Dare 2000\", a remix of the original soundtrack, was composed by former Crack the Sky guitarist Rick Witkowski. Byron Taylor again served as set designer. The series concluded on November 10, 2000. Repeats remained on the Nickelodeon schedule until July 29, 2001.\n\nBeginning May 21, 2012, Nickelodeon Suites Resort in Orlando produced \"Double Dare\" as a nightly live stage presentation, \"Double Dare Live\". As part of the Studio Nick feature of the hotel, shows were performed each night exclusively for the resort's guests. The show featured elements and updates from the various versions of \"Double Dare\", including remixed music, physical challenges and an obstacle course similar to the TV show. Like the most recent formats of the program, eight contestants were selected to participate for the game-playing teams, while additional audience members played other physical challenges throughout the program. The production continued until Nickelodeon Suites Resort Orlando rebranded as a Holiday Inn Resort on June 1, 2016. A scaled-down version of \"Double Dare Live\", called \"Double Dare Challenge\", has been presented at Nickelodeon Universe in Mall of America from June 13 to September 24, 2016, and ran again from June 16 to September 30, 2017. Its current cycle began March 16, 2018, and is scheduled to run intermittently through the end of October.\n\nOn July 22, 2016, special live editions of \"Double Dare\", produced by Nickelodeon and The Splat with original host Marc Summers, took place at Fluxx nightclub during San Diego Comic-Con 2016. The event was live-streamed on The Splat's Facebook page and included in the later anniversary special. The week of July 25, 2016, The Splat aired a \"Double Dare\"-themed week featuring episodes and moments from the series' history, and included edited versions of the Comic-Con games. These events marked Summers' first Nickelodeon-sponsored involvement with the brand since \"Double Dare 2000\".\n\nA half-hour special presentation, celebrating the 30th anniversary of the show's premiere, the \"Double Dare Reunion Special\", aired on November 23, 2016, on Nick at Nite, with an encore airing on The Splat. The special included vintage clips, behind-the-scenes footage, and a new game recorded at San Diego Comic-Con 2016 played by cast members from \"All That\". Summers, announcer Harvey, and stage assistant Robin Russo (née Marrella) appeared in the special. 1.126 million viewers watched the special on Nick at Nite, outperforming all other shows on the network for the evening, and finishing as the third-most viewed of all non-sports original cable telecasts among viewers ages 18 to 34 for that day.\n\nIn 2017, Summers stated that, due to the success of the special, he was in negotiations to return to \"Double Dare\" in some form with Nickelodeon. News outlets reported in March 2018 that Nickelodeon was producing a new series of \"Blue's Clues\", and was in negotiations to reboot \"Clarissa Explains It All\", two shows originally made by the network in the 1990s. Upon learning of these developments, and inspired by the success of other contemporary television revivals like \"Will & Grace\", Summers emailed Nickelodeon executives to ask if he was going to be the person to receive \"the next phone call.\"\n\nOn April 25, 2018, Nickelodeon announced a new version of \"Double Dare\", which is the second revival of the show. The network ordered 40 episodes that recorded in Los Angeles at CBS Studio Center throughout June 2018. The series premiered on June 25, airing weeknights. Actress and television/internet personality Liza Koshy hosts the series. Original host Marc Summers also appears on the series in an on-camera role. Along with performing traditional duties of an announcer, Summers provides commentary on the show's physical challenges and helps introduce elements and transition the game.\nSummers is also one of the show's executive producers. Fremantle produces the series on behalf of Nickelodeon.\n\nThe set, designed by James Pearse Connelly, bears a heavy resemblance to the original set used in the 1980s. Updates include using digital screens for displays and decoration, enhanced lighting, and a dedicated space for the obstacle course, though timing and scoring uses emulation of the original vane display-type numerals. Members of the \"challenge team\" also appear as stage assistants, including Eric Pierce, Michelle Kallman, James Michael Ryan Jr., and Stad St. Fleur. Edd Kalehoff remixed and re-composed the original theme song and soundtrack for this version.\n\nEpisodes broadcast predominantly feature teams of two children competing, but some episodes have participation from teams of one child and one adult family member. An episode has also aired with teams of three siblings, and one with teams of two children with two adult family members. Some episodes feature celebrity participants, such as actors from past Nickelodeon series competing, including \"All That\"'s Jamie Lynn Spears and Josh Server. The 2018 Kids' Choice Sports Awards, which aired on July 20, 2018, culminated with host and basketball player Chris Paul competing against Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps in the \"Double Dare\" obstacle course, presented by Liza Koshy and Marc Summers. Because Koshy had difficulty with her voice during the taping of an episode, Summers filled in as host for the second half of a show, which aired on July 26. The first cycle of season one, airing 24 half-hour episodes, concluded on July 27. Episodes resumed airing on September 30, with weekly airings, culminating with a special 60-minute episode featuring \"Kenan & Kel\" stars Kenan Thompson and Kel Mitchell aired on November 21. In celebration of Super Bowl LIII, a special episode featuring Nickelodeon celebrities and NFL players is scheduled to air on February 3, 2019, \n\nWithin a month of its premiere, \"Double Dare\" had more than tripled viewership for Nickelodeon’s afternoon schedule becoming the highest-rated original, daily program on cable. During \"Double Dare\"s first year, the program averaged a 3.0 household Nielsen rating, with over 1 million households tuned in each week. On its February 1988 debut in syndication, the program averaged a 5.4 household Nielsen rating and a 15.4 rating among children ages 2 to 11, and was the second-highest rated syndicated program in that demographic. By January 1989, \"Double Dare\" averaged a 3.1 household Nielsen rating. The special Sunday premiere episode of \"Family Double Dare\" on Fox on April 3, 1988, scored a 4.0 household Nielsen rating, finishing 5th out of 10 programs broadcast on Fox that week helping to give Fox's Sunday night schedule its highest ratings to that point.\n\nWhen \"Double Dare 2000\" premiered in January 2000, episodes in its first two weeks averaged household Nielsen ratings of up to 3.0, being viewed by up to 2.7 million households, and finishing in the top 25 basic cable programs each week. \"Double Dare 2000\" often won its time slot in viewership among children ages 2 to 11.\n\nThe June premiere of the 2018 revival was watched by 1.843 million viewers, outperforming all other shows on Nickelodeon for the day, finishing as the highest-rated broadcast for teenagers ages 12 to 17. \"Double Dare\"'s premiere was Nickelodeon's most-viewed series launch among adults 18 to 49 in more than five years. By the end of its second week, viewership for new episodes hovered around one million overall viewers.\n\nAt its peak, \"Double Dare\" was the highest-rated, live-action show for children ages 8 to 15. The show was also popular with college students, with many schools offering \"Double Dare\" fan clubs. Half of Nickelodeon's operating profit in 1988 was due to the success of \"Double Dare\" and its syndication. On the show's success, then-senior vice-president of Nickelodeon programming Herb Scannell said that \"Double Dare\" was like \"having a hit record your first time out. \"Double Dare\" put Nick on the map.\"\n\n\"Double Dare\" revitalized interest in the concept of a game show for children. Less than a year after the program launched, NBC had premiered \"I'm Telling!\", Lorimar Television had announced plans for \"Fun House\", and Nickelodeon's \"Finders Keepers\" began airing—all shows based on competition between teams of children. During \"Double Dare\"s first year on television, junior versions of established game shows including \"Hollywood Squares\" and \"The Cross-Wits\" were developed for syndication, but ultimately were not produced. Game show executive and producer Bob Boden noted that \"Double Dare\" \"allowed kids to get dirty and have a good time in ways that really were not acceptable before that show\". \"Double Dare\" remains the longest-running game show produced by Nickelodeon.\n\nAs \"Double Dare\" grew messier, a green slime substance became more commonly used in physical challenges and obstacles. Slime was originally introduced on another Nickelodeon program, \"You Can't Do That on Television\". \"Double Dare\"'s high viewership led to greater visibility for Nickelodeon's association with slime, and saw it featured in promotions for the network in the late 1980s. The substance proliferated further, including annual slimings on the Kids' Choice Awards, a slime geyser at Nickelodeon Studios, and slime-based segments on other game shows including \"Wild & Crazy Kids\" and \"Figure It Out\". The relationship of Nickelodeon and slime still lasts on the network.\n\nReviews of the show were often favorable, noting it was fun entertainment for the family. After \"Double Dare\" premiered, Kenneth R. Clark, media writer for the \"Chicago Tribune\", observed that when contestants \"squeal and make faces, it is somehow natural, wholesome and infectious,\" and said, \"\"Double Dare\" is so refreshing.\" Noel Holston of the \"Minneapolis Star and Tribune\" wrote that \"kids and game shows, when you think about it, go together like hot fudge and ice cream\". The \"Orange County Register\"s Ellen T. Klein said \"Double Dare\" is \"such fast-paced, furious and messy fun\" and rated the show as \"good\". In 1988, television critic Ken Tucker cited the interaction between, and the performances of host Marc Summers and announcer Harvey as \"the not-so-secret ingredients in the show's success in drawing adult, as well as youthful, viewers\".\n\nSome criticism came from the feeling that the program was not educational. Others were concerned about food waste like beans and eggs in physical challenges and obstacles. In a \"Cheers and Jeers\" section in 1988, \"TV Guide\" gave \"jeers\" to \"Double Dare\" for \"daring to push beyond the limits of good taste,\" saying it was \"gross and insulting to watch.\" In 1989, television and film critic Jeffrey Lyons wrote that he \"wouldn't dream of proclaiming that \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" is good for your child. But what's wrong with watching an admittedly dumb—but hilarious—program just for fun?\"\n\nAndrea Graham wrote for Common Sense Media that revival series \"Double Dare 2000\" is a \"fun, action-filled game show that families can watch together – amid all the slime are some good messages about family togetherness\". Original host and executive consultant for \"Double Dare 2000\" Marc Summers said that \"there were issues\" with the revival. In an interview with AfterBuzz TV, he said that he felt the length of the Triple Dare Challenge took away from the game and that \"if we would have done it the way we originally did it, we would have been fine, but unfortunately, it didn't happen\".\n\nThe 2018 revival of \"Double Dare\" premiered to positive reviews, particularly for host Liza Koshy. Reality Blurred's Andy Dehnart said that the reboot \"did an excellent job of balancing the old and new,\" and praised the combination of Koshy and Marc Summers, saying she \"can absolutely hold her own as host,\" and \"her rapport with [Summers] felt natural and playful.\" Joel Keller of the \"New York Post\"'s Decider observed that \"the show belongs to Koshy, who ad libs well and makes the kids feel at ease,\" and gave \"Double Dare\" a favorable \"stream it\" rating.\n\n\"Double Dare\" was nominated for a CableACE Award in the Game Show Special or Series category at the 1989 and 1993 ceremonies, winning the award in 1989, but losing to MTV's \"Lip Service\" in 1993. Dana Calderwood was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing in a Children's Series in 1989. Nickelodeon was nominated for a 1988 Golden ACE award, cable's then-highest programming honor, for its \"pro-social television,\" including \"Double Dare\" by name. In January 2001, \"TV Guide\" ranked the show number 29 on its list of 50 Greatest Game Shows.\n\n\"Double Dare\" has been featured in a number of notable visual media since its premiere, often with one or more characters participating as contestants in homages to the series. On \"Double Dare\", a 2016 episode of the 1980s-set sitcom \"The Goldbergs\", Adam Goldberg (Sean Giambrone) tries to find the perfect partner to audition to be a contestant on \"Double Dare\". After rejecting his friend Emmy Mirsky (Stephanie Katherine Grant), he eventually runs through a mock obstacle course at a tryout with his grandfather Albert \"Pops\" Solomon (George Segal). Neither are selected to take part in the program. Benjamin Bauman and Amy Gross, real-life friends of series' creator Adam F. Goldberg who appeared as contestants on \"Double Dare\" in 1988, cameo as producers of the show. A first-season episode of the 2013 Nickelodeon series \"Sanjay and Craig\" titled \"Trouble Dare\" features the titular characters (voiced by Maulik Pancholy and Chris Hardwick), along with Sanjay's mother and father (voiced by Grey Griffin and Kunal Nayyar), leaving their home after a bug infestation. After asking Remington Tufflips (voiced by Chris D'Elia) to stay in his trailer, and finding that the Dickson family is already occupying it, Tufflips decides which family can stay through a game of \"Family Double Dare\" hosted by himself. Harvey (voiced by himself) is concerned with how Tufflips is running the game, until Marc Summers (voiced by himself) appears and declares Sanjay's family the winners of a night's sleep inside the Pick It obstacle. Another \"Family Double Dare\" game is seen in the music video for rock band Good Charlotte's 2011 single \"Last Night.\" The video shows an abridged game of \"Family Double Dare\", going through questions, physical challenges, and the obstacle course. Marc Summers appears as himself, guitarist Benji Madden appears as Harvey, and band members play contestants and stage assistants.\n\n\"Double Dare\" has also been subject to parodies and spoofs in various forms. The October 1988 issue of \"Mad\" has a spoof of \"Double Dare\" called \"Double Damp\". Marc Summers and Harvey are lampooned as \"Muck Slummers\" and \"Hardly\". The piece mocked the program's use of food products, the dangerous nature of some stunts, and the similarity to game show \"Beat the Clock\". Both Summers and Harvey consider being parodied in \"Mad\" a high point in their careers. A 2015 episode of the truTV sketch comedy series \"Friends of the People\" titled \"Double Dare\" guest stars Marc Summers as himself, hosting \"banned\" moments from \"Double Dare\". Sketches include a contestant exploding, and another being stuck permanently inside an obstacle. \"March Dadness,\" a 2012 episode of \"The Cleveland Show\", features a flashback to a \"Family Double Dare\"-like program called \"Dare Squared\". A young Cleveland Brown (voiced by Mike Henry) has difficulty finding an orange flag in an oversized stack of pancakes at the end of the program's obstacle course. Marc Summers voices the frustrated host. Also, in a 2017 episode of \"Billy on the Street\", host Billy Eichner led guest Keegan-Michael Key through an obstacle course with gun law themes titled \"Super Sloppy Semi-Automatic Double Dare.\" Eichner has cited \"Double Dare\" as a favorite show of his.\n\nReebok has been a major sponsor of \"Double Dare\" throughout its run. Every contestant and stage crew member wore a pair of the company's shoes. Additional corporate sponsorships and tie-ins were proposed, including Casio putting their logo on the stage clock, and a \"Double Dare\"-branded breakfast cereal, but Nickelodeon declined the offers.\n\nFrom 1987 to 1995, various \"Double Dare\" live tours visited venues around the United States. Featuring a format similar to the TV show wherein members of a live local audience could participate, the tour would later incorporate aspects of \"What Would You Do?\", another show hosted by Marc Summers for Nickelodeon. Some events in these tours sold out arenas they were held in, with attendance of more than 20,000 spectators. The tours and events resumed in 2000 to promote \"Double Dare 2000\". Beginning October 30, 2018, a version of \"Double Dare\" once again began touring nationwide. Marc Summers serves as host, with previous \"Double Dare\" personality Robin Russo appearing as well.\n\n\"Double Dare\"s lasting popularity has led to a variety of products being made available. Pressman Toy Corporation released two traditional board games based on the show: The \"Double Dare\" home game was released in September 1987 and \"Wet 'N Wild Double Dare\" was released in March 1989. Another board game titled \"Double Dare: The Game\" was manufactured by Mattel in 2001. GameTek published a PC game in 1988, and a video game for the Nintendo Entertainment System in 1990 based on the program. Containing facts about the show, along with trivia and activities to host a home version of the game, two editions of \"The Double Dare Game Book\" were released by Parachute Press in 1988 and 1989. Based on substances referenced on \"Double Dare\" and \"Double Dare 2000\", Mattel and Jakks Pacific manufactured a series of toy slimes called Gak and Goooze. Other toys, apparel, lunchboxes, and school supplies have been sold featuring the show's logo and art.\n\n\"Double Dare\" was heavily featured in the summer 2016 \"Remember When\" promotion at New York concept store STORY. Their partnership with Nickelodeon offered exclusive in-store products like \"Double Dare\" T-shirts and other goods designed in the style of the program's themes. Patrons at STORY could also participate in \"Double Dare\" experiences, like running the One-Ton Human Hamster Wheel obstacle. As well, other \"Double Dare\"-inspired products available in-store, including Keds shoes and Stance socks, were offered online through retail partner Neiman Marcus.\n\nFour collections of \"Double Dare\" highlights and special features were released on home video by Kids Klassics on October 1, 1988,— \"Double Dare: The Inside Scoop\" and \"Double Dare: The Messiest Moments.\" On October 17, 1989, a home party guide titled \"How to Throw a Double Dare Party\" was released by Elektra Video. Sony Wonder released \"Double Dare: Super Sloppiest Moments\" on May 31, 1994.\n\nCollections of episodes of the original \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" and versions of \"Family Double Dare\" were made available for purchase via digital distribution on Amazon Video and the iTunes Store throughout 2013. A DVD titled \"Nickelodeon Games and Sports: All-Star Collection\", released by Nickelodeon for Amazon.com on April 27, 2015, features an episode of the original \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" and \"Family Double Dare\". Added at launch in August 2018, select episodes of \"Double Dare 2000\" are available to view on the NickSplat channel on Otter Media's VRV streaming service.\n\nEpisodes of the 2018 version of \"Double Dare\" are available for purchase through many online video retailers, sold individually and in multi-episode volumes. In August 2018, a \"Double Dare\" game was released on Facebook Messenger, allowing users to play against friends or other Messenger users in a turn-based version of the program.\n\n"}
{"id": "401649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401649", "title": "El Mirador", "text": "El Mirador\n\nEl Mirador (which translates as \"the lookout\", \"the viewpoint\", or \"the belvedere\") is a large pre-Columbian Maya settlement, located in the north of the modern department of El Petén, Guatemala.\n\nEl Mirador was first discovered in 1926, and was photographed from the air in 1930, but the remote site deep in the jungle had little attention paid to it until Ian Graham spent some time there making the first map of the area in 1962.\nA detailed investigation was begun in 1978 with an archaeological project under the direction of Bruce Dahlin (The Catholic University of America) and Ray Matheny (Brigham Young University). Dahlin's work focused primarily on the bajo swamps and mapping, while Matheny's team focused primarily on excavations in the site center and architecture. This project ended in 1983. To the surprise of the archaeologists, it was found that a large amount of construction was not contemporary with the large Maya classic cities in the area, like Tikal and Uaxactun, but rather from centuries earlier in the pre-classic era (\"see:\" Mesoamerican chronology).\n\nIn 2003, Richard D. Hansen, a Senior Scientist from Idaho State University, initiated major investigation, stabilization, and conservation programs at El Mirador with a multi-disciplinary approach, including staff and technical personnel from 52 universities and research institutions from throughout the world. By August 2008, the team had published 168 scientific papers, and produced many technical reports and scientific presentations as well as documentary films in the History Channel, National Geographic, the Learning Channel, BBC, ABC's 20/20 and Good Morning America, 60 Minutes (Australia), and the Discovery Channel.\n\nEl Mirador flourished from about the 6th century BCE to the 1st century CE, reaching its height from the 3rd century BCE. Then it experienced a hiatus of construction and perhaps abandonment for generations, followed by re-occupation and further construction in the Late Classic era, and a final abandonment about the end of the 9th century. The civic center of the site covers some with several thousand structures, including monumental architecture from 10 to 72 meters high.\n\nOne of the key elements for this tremendous rise in human population was the many bajos, seasonal swamps, in the region. Tropical-forest soil contains hardly any nutrients and most of the nutrients present get washed away by rain. Yet the Maya developed a system that was highly productive. In the Mirador basin, the swamps provided the solution. By importing mud from the swamps by the thousands of tonnes, the Maya created mud-covered terraces ready for agriculture. By adding lime to the soil, they elevated the pH, making it suitable for a variety of crops: corn, squash, beans, cacao, cotton and palm. When the ground was depleted of nutrients, adding another layer of mud reinvigorates the fields.\n\nThere is a number of \"triadic\" structures (around 35 structures), consisting of large artificial platforms topped with a set of 3 summit pyramids. The most notable of such structures are three huge complexes; one is nicknamed \"El Tigre\", with height ; the other is called \"La Danta\" (or Danta) temple. The La Danta temple measures approximately tall from the forest floor, and considering its total volume (2,800,000 cubic meters) is one of the largest pyramids in the world. When the large man-made platform that the temple is built upon (some 18,000 square meters) is included in calculations, La Danta is considered by some archeologists to be one of the most massive ancient structures in the world. Also the \"Los Monos\" complex is very large (48 meters high) although not as well known. Most of the structures were originally faced with cut stone which was then decorated with large stucco masks depicting the deities of Maya mythology. According to Carlos Morales-Aguilar, a Guatemalan archaeologist from Pantheon-Sorbonne University, the city appears to have been planned from its foundation, as extraordinary alignments have been found between the architectural groups and main temples, which were possibly related to solar alignments. The study reflects an importance of urban planning and sacred spaces since the first settlers. \n\nAn additional feature of El Mirador is the quantity and size of causeways, internally linking important architectural compounds, and externally linking the numerous major ancient cities within the Mirador Basin during the latter part of the Middle and Late Preclassic periods. The causeways are commonly referred to as \"sacbeob\" (the plural form of \"sacbe\", meaning \"white road\" in Mayan, from \"sac\" \"white\" and \"be\" \"road\"). These are raised stone causeways raising 2 to 6 meters above the level of the surrounding landscape and measuring from 20 to 50 meters wide. One \"sacbe\" links El Mirador to the neighbouring site of Nakbe, approximately 12 km away, while another joined El Mirador to El Tintal, 20 km away.\n\nWhile the city and the sister centers of the Mirador Basin thrived between 300 BCE and the Common Era (CE), apparently, the site was abandoned, as were nearly all other major sites in the area, by about 150 CE. A large wall, which must have been as high as 3 to 8 meters, had been constructed on the entire northern, eastern, and southern portions of the West Group of the city prior to its abandonment in the terminal Preclassic period, suggesting a possible threat that had been perceived by this time.\n\nAnother aspect that may have led to the downfall of the system, was soil erosion due to deforestation. The Maya were fond of plastering buildings, houses, floors and even ceramics with layers of lime plaster called stucco. This plaster created a nice smooth surface which facilitated painting. With this stucco, the Maya created many astonishingly beautiful artifacts, as well as smooth-walled pyramids and 'paved' roads. But a darker side to this production became evident when consumption started to evolve into conspicuous consumption. The production of lime needs a large amount of wood. Archeologists have calculated that for the production of 1 ton of lime cement, 5 tonnes of limestone and 5 tonnes of wood were needed. Also, dry wood was not suitable due to the large fluctuations in temperature, as a stable temperature was needed to properly burn the limestone. To accomplish this, green wood was needed. So the Maya cut down every available green tree in the area.\n\nExcavations in and around the bajos (swamps) revealed the effects of deforestation. When trees vanish, the soil becomes loose and is easily transported by water (e.g. rain). Also, water flows downhill, and the only places in the Basin where it could flow to, were these bajos. The nutrient-rich muck that was so vigorously imported from the bajos was now buried under a 2 to 3 metre thick layer of sterile clay. This cut-off the driving force behind the sustainable agricultural fields. When you cannot replenish your crop fields, more and more harvests start to fail. In the end the failing crop fields led to starvation and collapse of society.\n\nIn the Late Classic period, ca 700 CE, portions of the site were reoccupied on a more modest scale, with small structures nestled among the ruins of the great preclassic center. The largest structure from this time period is scarcely more than 8 meters high, and many of the preclassic building were plundered for stone materials for construction and lime making. The Late Classic occupants however, were noted scribes and artists. The area of the Mirador Basin is the only known source of the \"codex-style ceramics\", a particularly fine polychrome ceramic consisting of black line drawings on a cream colored background. The Late Classic occupation was brief, and by about 900 CE, the area was again nearly completely abandoned, and remains so until the present time.\n\nRichard D. Hansen, an archaeologist from Idaho State University, is the current director of the Mirador Basin Project, and according to his discoveries here, he thinks that the more than 45 mapped sites in the Mirador Basin may have formed the earliest well-defined political state in Mesoamerica.\n\nAlthough containing striking examples of Preclassic Maya civilization, the remote location of El Mirador has prevented it from becoming a popular tourist site. Major plans by the current government of Guatemala include El Mirador as an important center of the Cuatro Balam Conservation and Development project.\n\nThis large concentration of Preclassic Maya cities in Mesoamerica is threatened by massive deforestation, looting, and destruction caused by equipment used in logging road construction, which itself facilitates intrusive settlements. The Mirador Basin in the far northern Petén region of Guatemala is known for its abundance of sites, many of which are among the largest and earliest in the Maya world. Of 26 known sites, only 14 have been studied; an estimated 30 more await discovery. By the time scholars get there, looters may already have plundered them:\n\"Trafficking in Maya artifacts is big business. George S. Stuart of the National Geographic Society has suggested that 1,000 pieces of fine pottery leave the Maya region each month, not an unreasonable estimate in light of the site damage observed. The most sought-after finds are codex-style ceramics, Late Classic (600–900 CE) black-line-on-cream pottery depicting mythological and historical events. Looters are often paid between $200 and $500 per vessel. Collectors may pay more than $100,000 for the same pieces in a gallery or at auction. At even minimal prices this amounts to a $10-million-a-month business in stolen cultural property. Collecting Precolumbian art is often viewed as a justifiable means of preserving the past. It is, in fact, a destructive and sometimes violent business, as attested to by the recent assassination in Carmelita of Carlos Catalán, a local chiclero who had become a staunch opponent of looting in Petén.\"\nSince 2003, California-based non-profit organization Global Heritage Fund (GHF) has been working to preserve and protect Mirador. In an October 2010 report titled \"Saving Our Vanishing Heritage\", GHF listed Mirador as one of 12 worldwide heritage sites most \"On the Verge\" of irreparable loss and destruction, citing deforestation, fires, major logging, poaching, looting, and narcotics trafficking as major threats to the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "240059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240059", "title": "Femininity", "text": "Femininity\n\nFemininity (also called girlishness, womanliness or womanhood) is a set of attributes, behaviors, and roles generally associated with girls and women. Femininity is partially socially constructed, being made up of both socially-defined and biologically-created factors. This makes it distinct from the definition of the biological female sex, as both males and females can exhibit feminine traits.\n\nTraits traditionally cited as feminine include gentleness, empathy, and sensitivity, though traits associated with femininity vary depending on location and context, and are influenced by a variety of social and cultural factors.\n\nTara Williams has suggested that modern notions of femininity in English speaking society began during the English medieval period at the time of the bubonic plague in the 1300s. Women in the Early Middle Ages were referred to simply within their traditional roles of maiden, wife, or widow. After the Black Death in England wiped out approximately half the population, traditional gender roles of wife and mother changed, and opportunities opened up for women in society. Prudence Allen has traced how the concept of \"woman\" changed during this period. The words \"femininity\" and \"womanhood\" are first recorded in Chaucer around 1380.\n\nIn 1949, French intellectual Simone de Beauvoir wrote that \"no biological, psychological or economic fate determines the figure that the human female presents in society\" and \"one is not born, but rather becomes, a woman,\" an idea that was picked up in 1959 by Canadian-American sociologist Erving Goffman and in 1990 by American philosopher Judith Butler, who theorized that gender is not fixed or inherent but is rather a socially defined set of practices and traits that have, over time, grown to become labelled as feminine or masculine. Goffman argued that women are socialized to present themselves as \"precious, ornamental and fragile, uninstructed in and ill-suited for anything requiring muscular exertion\" and to project \"shyness, reserve and a display of frailty, fear and incompetence.\"\n\nSecond-wave feminists, influenced by de Beauvoir, believed that although biological differences between females and males were innate, the concepts of femininity and masculinity had been culturally constructed, with traits such as passivity and tenderness assigned to women and aggression and intelligence assigned to men. Girls, second-wave feminists said, were then socialized with toys, games, television and school into conforming to feminine values and behaviours. In her significant 1963 book \"The Feminine Mystique\", American feminist Betty Friedan wrote that the key to women's subjugation lay in the social construction of femininity as childlike, passive and dependent, and called for a \"drastic reshaping of the cultural image of femininity.\"\n\nWhile the defining characteristics of femininity are not universally identical, some patterns exist: gentleness, empathy, sensitivity, caring, sweetness, compassion, tolerance, nurturance, deference, and succorance are traits that have traditionally been cited as feminine.\n\nFemininity is sometimes linked with sexual objectification and sexual appeal. Sexual passiveness, or sexual receptivity, is sometimes considered feminine while sexual assertiveness and sexual desire is sometimes considered masculine.\n\nPeople who exhibit a combination of both masculine and feminine characteristics are considered androgynous, and feminist philosophers have argued that gender ambiguity may blur gender classification. Modern conceptualizations of femininity also rely not just upon social constructions, but upon the individualized choices made by women.\n\nAnn Oakley's sex/gender dichotomy has had a considerable influence on sociologists defining masculine and feminine behavior as regulated, policed, and reproduced in our society, as well as the power structures relating to the concepts.\n\nAn ongoing debate with regards to sex and psychology concerns the extent to which gender identity and gender-specific behavior is due to socialization versus inborn factors. According to Diane F. Halpern, both factors play a role, but the relative importance of each must still be investigated. The nature versus nurture question, for example, is extensively debated and is continually revitalized by new research findings. Some hold that feminine identity is partly a 'given' and partly a goal to be sought.\n\nIn 1959, researchers such as John Money and Anke Erhardt proposed the prenatal hormone theory. Their research argues that sexual organs bathe the embryo with hormones in the womb, resulting in the birth of an individual with a distinctively male or female brain; this was suggested by some to \"predict future behavioral development in a masculine or feminine direction\". This theory, however, has been criticized on theoretical and empirical grounds and remains controversial. In 2005, scientific research investigating sex and psychology showed that gender expectations and stereotype threat affect behavior, and a person's gender identity can develop as early as three years of age. Money also argued that gender identity is formed during a child's first three years.\n\nMary Vetterling-Braggin argues that all characteristics associated with femininity arose from early human sexual encounters which were mainly male-forced and female-unwilling, because of male and female anatomical differences. Others, such as Carole Pateman, Ria Kloppenborg, and Wouter J. Hanegraaff, argue that the definition of femininity is the result of how females must behave in order to maintain a patriarchal social system.\n\nIn his 1998 book \"Masculinity and Femininity: the Taboo Dimension of National Cultures\", Dutch psychologist and researcher Geert Hofstede wrote that only behaviors directly connected with procreation can, strictly speaking, be described as feminine or masculine, and yet every society worldwide recognizes many additional behaviors as more suitable to females than males, and vice versa. He describes these as relatively arbitrary choices mediated by cultural norms and traditions, identifying \"masculinity versus femininity\" as one of five basic dimensions in his theory of cultural dimensions. Hofstede describes as feminine behaviors such as \"service\", \"permissiveness\", and \"benevolence\", and describes as feminine those countries stressing equality, solidarity, quality of work-life, and the resolution of conflicts by compromise and negotiation.\n\nIn Carl Jung's school of analytical psychology, the anima and animus are the two primary anthropomorphic archetypes of the unconscious mind. The anima and animus are described by Jung as elements of his theory of the collective unconscious, a domain of the unconscious that transcends the personal psyche. In the unconscious of the male, it finds expression as a feminine inner personality: anima; equivalently, in the unconscious of the female, it is expressed as a masculine inner personality: animus.\n\nIn Western cultures, the ideal of feminine appearance has traditionally included long, flowing hair, clear skin, a narrow waist, and little or no body hair or facial hair. In other cultures, however, expectations are different. For example, in many parts of the world, underarm hair is not considered unfeminine. Today, the color pink is strongly associated with femininity, whereas in the early 1900s pink was associated with boys and blue with girls.\n\nThese feminine ideals of beauty have been criticized by feminists and others as restrictive, unhealthy, and even racist. In particular, the prevalence of anorexia and other eating disorders in Western countries has frequently been blamed on the modern feminine ideal of thinness.\n\nIn many Muslim countries, women are required to cover their heads with a \"hijab\" (veil). It is considered a symbol of feminine modesty and morality.\n\nCultural standards vary a great deal on what is considered feminine. For example, in 16th century France, high heels were considered a distinctly masculine type of shoe, though they are currently considered feminine.\n\nIn Ancient Egypt, sheath and beaded net dresses were considered female clothing, while wraparound dresses, perfumes, cosmetics, and elaborate jewelry were worn by both men and women. In Ancient Persia, clothing was generally unisex, though women wore veils and headscarves. Women in Ancient Greece wore himations; and in Ancient Rome women wore the palla, a rectangular mantle, and the maphorion.\n\nThe typical feminine outfit of aristocratic women of the Renaissance was an undershirt with a gown and a high-waisted overgown, and a plucked forehead and beehive or turban-style hairdo.\n\nBody alteration is the deliberate altering of the human body for aesthetic or non-medical purpose. One such purpose has been to induce perceived feminine characteristics in women.\n\nFor centuries in Imperial China, smaller feet were considered to be a more aristocratic characteristic in women. The practice of foot binding was intended to enhance this characteristic, though it made walking difficult and painful.\n\nIn a few parts of Africa and Asia, neck rings are worn in order to elongate the neck. In these cultures, a long neck characterizes feminine beauty. The Padaung of Burma and Tutsi women of Burundi, for instance, practice this form of body modification.\n\nWhat is considered as the \"ideal feminine\" is defined by each individual culture based on what that culture considers valuable, and is often the subject of heated debate.\n\nTo understand the term \"ideal feminine\", we need to understand what femininity is. “It embodies a constellation of meanings, it generally refers to the attributes, behaviors, interests, mannerisms, appearances, roles, and expectations that we have come to associate with being female during the socialization processes. Gender role socialization relies on modeling and reinforcement – girls and women learn and internalize socially expected and acceptable feminine traits and behaviors and are rewarded for gender-appropriate behavior.” The Psychology of Women Quarterly also mentions that there are numerous psychological problems that are related to femininity among women and adolescent girls. The social construct of femininity has adverse effects on women. What is lacking in current research of femininity is \"a tool that allows for understanding women's subjective femininity experiences and assessing their relationships to women's psychological health.\" What was later developed was the \"Subjective Femininity Stress Scale\" (SFSS), a scale that measures women's experiences of being female and to rate the levels of stress they may feel associated with their feminine experiences. We also know that \"feminine norms from the dominant culture are insidiously powerful and pervasive and are likely to influence every woman living in American society [...] empirical evidence suggests that current studies on femininity (i.e. traits, role norms, gender role stress) may not fully capture the experiences of women from diverse backgrounds.\"\n\nThe ideal feminine has been debated for centuries. Virginia Woolf writes, \"Women have served all these centuries as looking-glasses possessing the magic and delicious power of reflecting the figure of man at twice its natural size.\" Woolf describes her as the Angel of the House. \"She was intensely sympathetic. She was immensely charming. She was utterly unselfish. She excelled in the difficult arts of family life. She sacrificed herself daily. If there was chicken, she took the leg; if there was a draught she sat in it—in short she was so constituted that she never had a mind or a wish of her own, but preferred to sympathize always with the minds and wishes of others. Above all—I need not say it—she was pure. Her purity was supposed to be her chief beauty--her blushes, her great grace. In those days—the last of Queen Victoria—every house had its Angel.\"\n\nThis relates to Simone de Beauvoir's point that women are the \"other.\" Beauvoir points out that, \"Man can think of himself without woman. She cannot think of herself without man. And she is simply what man decrees; thus called 'the sex', by which is meant that [...] she is sex – absolute sex, no less. She is defined and differentiated with reference to man and not he with reference to her; she is the incidental, the inessential as opposed to the essential. He is the Subject, he is the Absolute – she is the Other.\" Beauvoir says that women are the \"Second Sex\" because they are secondary to men. Her coining of the \"eternal feminine\" solidifies this idea of ideal femininity. She was stating that a woman's femininity determines her worth and that a woman's value is based on the man's default. This \"eternal feminine\" was constructed because, as she points out, \"They are women in virtue of their anatomy and physiology. Throughout history they have always been subordinated to men, and hence their dependency is not the result of a historical event or a social change – it was not something that occurred.\" In order to understand the ideal feminine, one must understand the social constructs that made the ideal feminine.\n\nBetty Friedan, who wrote \"The Feminine Mystique\", also weighs in on the subject of the ideal feminine. She notes that, \"The feminine mystique permits, even encourages, women to ignore the question of their identity. The mystique says they can answer the question 'Who am I?' by saying 'Tom's wife... Mary's mother.' – an American woman no longer has a private image to tell her who she is, or can be, or wants to be,\" and that women are not considered female if they do not abide by these societal norms and mores. Friedan thinks that \"the core of the problem for women today is not sexual but a problem of identity – a stunting or evasion of growth that is perpetuated by the feminine mystique.\" At the time this book was written, women were constantly shown their roles were that of the homemaker and the nurturer – if they wanted to be considered feminine, they would prescribe to these roles.\n\nIf ideal femininity is a woman who accepts and encourages femininity in all its forms, the opposite of the ideal feminine would be a lesbian. They may shed the feminine identity in order to build their own identity and fight the \"feminine mystique\". Monique Wittig writes, \"lesbian society destroys the artificial (social) fact constituting women as a 'natural group.' A lesbian society pragmatically reveals that the division from men of which women have been the object is a political one and shows that we have been ideologically rebuilt into a 'natural group.' In the case of women, ideology goes far since our bodies as well as our minds are the product of this manipulation.\" She goes on to say, \"as individuals as well we question 'woman,' which for us, as for Simone de Beauvoir, is only a myth.\" Wittig believes that women must, as the lesbians are doing, reject the definition of \"'woman', which is imposed on them.\"\n\nIn 1876, Horatio Alger, Jr. proclaimed women of Cape Cod as the ideal feminine beauty, specifically, because they were blond, tan, physically fit and educated.\n\nIn 1959, the Barbie fashion doll was introduced as a feminine ideal of modern aesthetic beauty by Mattel, in the United States. While there are those who hold Barbie to be the feminine ideal, Barbie's anatomical proportions are exaggerated and do not, for example, meet the aesthetic proportions that men in Indo-European cultures find most attractive. This icon of femininity, in the views of some, attracts a wide international audience of women and men. She has been used as a teaching tool for femininity. One of the most common criticisms of Barbie is that she promotes an unrealistic and unattainable idea of feminine beauty and fits the weight criteria for anorexia.\n\nIn China, female consumers rejected Barbie's ideal of feminine beauty and its image for women as extraneously sexy. In Iran, the feminine ideals and independent lifestyle represented by Barbie are considered a threat to Iranian values, \"more harmful than an American missile.\" In Saudi Arabia, Barbie was banned for the same reason, by the religious police as a moral threat to Islam.\n\nIn 1975, American film critic, academic, and screenwriter Marjorie Rosen wrote in her book \"Popcorn Venus: Women, Movies, & the American Dream\" that the film industry presents a distorted image of femininity that reflects prevailing societal values. In 1987 American film critic Molly Haskell wrote that film not only reflects but reinforces society's accepted gender role definitions, saying \"film is a rich field for the mining of female stereotypes... If we see stereotypes in film, it's because stereotypes existed in society.\"\n\nIn post-match interviews, female tennis players have been found to resist media narratives that either give emphasis to stereotypical notions of gendered identities, such as femininity, or detract from their status as efficient professionals.\n\nGender stereotypes influence traditional feminine occupations, resulting in microaggression toward women who break traditional gender roles. These stereotypes include that women have a caring nature, have skill at household-related work, have greater manual dexterity than men, are more honest than men, and have a more attractive physical appearance. Occupational roles associated with these stereotypes include: midwife, teacher, accountant, data entry clerk, cashier, salesperson, receptionist, housekeeper, cook, maid, social worker, and nurse. Occupational segregation maintains gender inequality and gender pay gap.\n\nThese associations are now considered outdated in much of the world, although certain specializations, such as surgery and emergency medicine, are dominated by a masculine culture and have a higher salary.\n\nLeadership is associated with masculinity in Western culture and women are perceived less favorably as potential leaders. However, some people have argued that the \"feminine\"-style leadership, which is associated with leadership that focuses on help and cooperation, is advantageous over \"masculine\" leadership, which is associated with focusing on tasks and control. Female leaders are more often described by Western media using characteristics associated with femininity, such as emotion.\n\nIt has been argued that primary sex characteristics of men and women, such as the ability to bear children, caused a historical sexual division of labor and gender stereotypes evolved culturally to perpetuate this division.\n\nThe practice of bearing children tends to interrupt the continuity of employment. According to human capital theory, this retracts from the female investment in higher education and employment training. Richard Anker of the International Labour Office argues human capital theory does not explain the sexual division of labor because many occupations tied to feminine roles, such as administrative assistance, require more knowledge, experience, and continuity of employment than unskilled masculinized occupations, such as truck driving. Anker argues the feminization of certain occupations limits employment options for women.\n\nRole congruity theory proposes that people tend to view deviations from expected gender roles negatively. It supports the empirical evidence that gender discrimination exists in areas traditionally associated with one gender or the other. It is sometimes used to explain why people have a tendency to evaluate behavior that fulfills the prescriptions of a leader role less favorably when it is enacted by a woman.\n\nShamanism may have originated as early as the paleolithic period, predating all organized religions. Archeological finds have suggested that the earliest known shamans were female, and contemporary shamanic roles such as the Korean mudang continue to be filled primarily by women.\nIn Hindu traditions, Devi is the female aspect of the divine. Shakti is the divine feminine creative power, the sacred force that moves through the entire universe and the agent of change. She is the female counterpart without whom the male aspect, which represents consciousness or discrimination, remains impotent and void. As the female manifestation of the supreme lord, she is also called Prakriti, the basic nature of intelligence by which the Universe exists and functions. In Hinduism, the universal creative force Yoni is feminine, with inspiration being the life force of creation.\nIn Taoism, the concept of \"yin\" represents the primary force of the female half of yin and yang. The yin is also present, to a smaller proportion, in the male half. The yin can be characterized as slow, soft, yielding, diffuse, cold, wet, and passive.\n\nIn Buddhism, women have been recognized and characterized vary in terms of their ability to achieve the truth of the Buddhahood (enlightenment) based on the Buddhist schools. For example, sutras in Early Buddhism depicted \"A woman of a top master of Wisdom\" as a woman who achieved enlightenment. But later Hinayana preached such great persons,including the ten great disciples of Buddha, are limited to men, with women as an inferior being, and as the whole, denied the possibility of women's enlightenment in this lifetime (i.e. woman should reborn as men in future lifetime). Then Mahayara again stated woman's enlightenment as a result of the present time practices.\n\nAlthough the Judeo-Christian God is typically described in masculine terms—such as father, king, warrior—many theologians argue that this is not meant to indicate the gender of God. According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church, God \"is neither man nor woman: he is God.\" Several recent writers, such as Sally McFague, have explored the idea of \"God as mother\", examining the feminine qualities attributed to God. For example, in the Book of Isaiah, God is compared to a mother comforting her child, while in the Book of Deuteronomy, God is said to have given birth to Israel.\n\nThe Book of Genesis describes divine creation of the world out of nothing or ex nihilo. In Wisdom literature and in the wisdom tradition, \"wisdom\" is described as feminine. In many books of the Old Testament, including Wisdom and Sirach, wisdom is personified and called \"she.\" According to David Winston, because \"wisdom\" is God's \"creative agent,\" she must be intimately identified with God.\n\n\"The Wisdom of God\" is feminine in Hebrew: \"Chokhmah\", in Arabic: \"Hikmah\", in Greek: \"Sophia\", and in Latin: \"Sapientia\". In Hebrew, both Shekhinah (the Holy Spirit and divine presence of God) and Ruach HaKodesh (divine inspiration) are feminine.\n\nIn the Jewish Kabbalah, Chokhmah (wisdom and intuition) is the force in the creative process that God used to create the heavens and the earth. Binah (understanding and perception) is the great mother, the feminine receiver of energy and giver of form. Binah receives the intuitive insight from Chokhmah and dwells on it in the same way that a mother receives the seed from the father, and keeps it within her until it's time to give birth. The intuition, once received and contemplated with perception, leads to the Creation of the Universe.\n\nCommunist revolutionaries initially depicted idealized womanhood as muscular, plainly dressed and strong, with good female communists shown as undertaking hard manual labour, using guns, and eschewing self-adornment. Contemporary Western journalists portrayed communist states as the enemy of traditional femininity, describing women in communist countries as \"mannish\" perversions. In revolutionary China in the 1950s, Western journalists described Chinese women as \"drably dressed, usually in sloppy slacks and without makeup, hair waves or nail polish\" and wrote that \"Glamour was communism's earliest victim in China. You can stroll the cheerless streets of Peking all day, without seeing a skirt or a sign of lipstick; without thrilling to the faintest breath of perfume; without hearing the click of high heels, or catching the glint of legs sheathed in nylon.\" In communist Poland, changing from high heels to worker's boots symbolized women's shift from the bourgeois to socialism.\"\n\nLater, the initial state portrayals of idealized femininity as strong and hard-working began to also include more traditional notions such as gentleness, caring and nurturing behaviour, softness, modesty and moral virtue, requiring good Communist women to become \"superheroes who excelled in all spheres\", including working at jobs not traditionally regarded as feminine in nature. \n\nCommunist ideology explicitly rejected some aspects of traditional femininity that it viewed as bourgeois and consumerist, such as helplessness, idleness and self-adornment. In Communist countries, some women resented not having access to cosmetics and fashionable clothes. In her 1993 book of essays \"How We Survived Communism & Even Laughed\", Croatian journalist and novelist Slavenka Drakulic wrote about \"a complaint I heard repeatedly from women in Warsaw, Budapest, Prague, Sofia, East Berlin: 'Look at us – we don't even look like women. There are no deodorants, perfumes, sometimes even no soap or toothpaste. There is no fine underwear, no pantyhose, no nice lingerie\" and \"Sometimes I think the real Iron Curtain is made of silky, shiny images of pretty women dressed in wonderful clothes, of pictures from women's magazines ... The images that cross the borders in magazines, movies or videos are therefore more dangerous than any secret weapon, because they make one desire that 'otherness' badly enough to risk one's life trying to escape.\" \n\nAs Communist countries such as Romania and the Soviet Union began to liberalize, their official media began representing women in more conventionally feminine ways compared with the \"rotund farm workers and plain-Jane factory hand\" depictions they had previously been publishing. As perfumes, cosmetics, fashionable clothing, and footwear became available to ordinary women in the Soviet Union, East Germany, Poland, Yugoslavia and Hungary, they began to be presented not as bourgeois frivolities but as signs of socialist modernity. In China, with the economic liberation started by Deng Xiaoping in the 1980s, the state stopped discouraging women from expressing conventional femininity, and gender stereotypes and commercialized sexualization of women which had been suppressed under Communist ideology began to rise.\n\nIn Western culture, effeminate men are often associated with homosexuality, although femininity is not necessarily related to a man's sexuality. Because men are pressured to be masculine and heterosexual, feminine men are stigmatized and assumed to be gay or queer because of how they perform their gender. This assumption limits the way one is allowed to express one's gender and sexuality.\n\nCross-dressing and drag are two public performances of femininity within men that have been most popularly known and understood throughout many western cultures. Men who wear clothing associated with femininity are often called cross-dressers. A drag queen is a man who wears flamboyant women's clothing and behaves in an exaggeratedly feminine manner for entertainment purposes.\n\nFeminist philosophers such as Judith Butler and Simone de Beauvoir contend that femininity and masculinity are created through repeated performances of gender; these performances reproduce and define the traditional categories of sex and/or gender.\n\nMany second-wave feminists reject what they regard as constricting standards of female beauty, created for the subordination and objectifying of women and self-perpetuated by reproductive competition and women's own aesthetics.\n\nOthers, such as lipstick feminists and some other third-wave feminists, argue that feminism shouldn't devalue feminine culture and identity, and that symbols of feminine identity such as make-up, suggestive clothing and having a sexual allure can be valid and empowering personal choices for both sexes.\n\nJulia Serano notes that masculine girls and women face much less social disapproval than feminine boys and men, which she attributes to sexism. Serano argues that women wanting to be like men is consistent with the idea that maleness is more valued in contemporary culture than femaleness, whereas men being willing to give up masculinity in favour of femininity directly threatens the notion of male superiority as well as the idea that men and women should be opposites. To support her thesis, Serano cites the far greater public scrutiny and disdain experienced by male-to-female cross-dressers compared with that faced by women who dress in masculine clothes, as well as research showing that parents are likelier to respond negatively to sons who like Barbie dolls and ballet or wear nail polish than they are to daughters exhibiting comparably masculine behaviours.\n\nIn her 2007 book \"Whipping Girl: A Transsexual Woman on Sexism and the Scapegoating of Femininity\", American transsexual writer and biologist Julia Serano offers a transfeminist critique of femininity, notable especially for its call to empower femininity: \n\nSerano notes that some behaviors, such as frequent smiling or avoiding eye contact with strangers, are considered feminine because they are practiced disproportionately by women, and likely have resulted from women's attempts to negotiate through a world which is sometimes hostile to them.\n\nSerano argues that because contemporary culture is sexist, it assigns negative connotations to, or trivializes, behaviours understood to be feminine such as gossiping, behaving emotionally or decorating. It also recasts and reimagines femininity through a male heterosexual lens, for example interpreting women's empathy and altruism as husband-and-child-focused rather than globally focused, and interpreting women's interest in aesthetics as intended solely to entice or attract men. She writes that femininity is frequently understood as perplexing and mysterious, and notes that words like spell-binding and enchanting are often used to describe feminine women, illustrating that men don't need to understand and appreciate women's experiences in the same way in which women must understand and appreciate theirs, and indeed that men are discouraged from doing so.\n\nBy definition, femininity is based on gendered norms of identity. Femininity within queer cultures is still limited and regulated when applied to an intersectional framework of identity.\n\nWithin the queer community, there is a mainstream visibility of masculine, queer women (particularly lesbians). This privileged queer masculinity creates an ideal for queer women, which is in direct contrast to femininity. Much of this idealist stigma eliminates the validity of femininity within queer women. Distinctively, femininity within queer men (particularly gay men) and transgender women occupies the dominant, accepted narrative of gender and/or sexuality embodiment. As is understood, femininity is not a totalizing product or manifestation of one's queer, gender identity. However, with this imbalance of representation and affirmation of these embodiments within the queer community, there is a perpetuation of queer standards of gendered femininity (and masculinity). When identifying queer femininity, following practices of adequate, inter sectional representations can be challenging because there is no one totalizing embodiment of femininity that is applied to and resulting from a queer label (or rejection of a label).\n\nFemininity, by definition, is based on a gendered, hetero-normative standpoint. This gendered, hetero-normative context, is often believed to be a biological, natural state of identity; understanding gender, sex, and sexuality as fixed characteristics that manifest in an \"activation\" of these characteristics, within queer persons who do not identify with a gender (i.e. gender fluid, gender non-conforming, etc.) is still understood on a gendered basis. This creates a marginalization of such queer individuals, and consequently limits the freedom of expression within the queer community. The fluidity and multiplicity of feminine (and masculine) embodiment is not understood as an adequately complex, non-traditional or permanent means of expression of identity through one's lived experiences.\n\nThere is a hierarchy of queer validity and legitimacy in relation to representations of queer identities. For example, within queer cultures, marginalization and lack of full validation of bisexuality perpetuates an intra-queer discourse of queer embodiment. There is a separation of bisexual legitimacy because of one's possible position to be in a heterosexual relationship. Bisexuality can be understood as a privilege in order to be accepted within normative structures of sexuality and human relations. This privileged position, within a hetero-normative framework of gender and sexuality, allows for the misrepresentation and inclusion of these experiences. A woman who is feminine and bisexual can \"pass\" as straight if presently engaged in hetero-normative/straight sexual acts. In this case, femininity acts as a privilege within the queer context.\n\n"}
{"id": "13020713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13020713", "title": "Flag of the British Leeward Islands", "text": "Flag of the British Leeward Islands\n\nThe flag of the British Leeward Islands was the flag of the Federal Colony of the Leeward Islands.\nIt was a Blue Ensign with a badge. The colonies under the Federal Colony had their own badges from 1909. The Governor-in-chief of the Leeward Islands used a Union Flag defaced with the coat of arms.\n"}
{"id": "327620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327620", "title": "Gabo Reform", "text": "Gabo Reform\n\nThe Gabo Reform, also known as the Kabo Reform, describes a series of sweeping reforms suggested to the government of Korea beginning in 1894 and ending in 1896 during the reign of Gojong of Korea in response to the Donghak Peasant Revolution. Historians debate the degree of Japanese influence in this program, as well as its effect in encouraging modernization. The name Gabo (갑오, 甲午) comes from the name of the year 1894 in the traditional sexagenary cycle.\n\nThe disarray and blatant corruption in the Korean government, particularly in the three main areas of revenues – land tax, military service and the state granary system – weighed heavily on the Korean peasantry which represented 90% of the population and was uniformly illiterate. Of special note is the corruption of the local functionaries (Hyangi) who could purchase an appointment as administrators and so cloak their predations on the farmers with an aura of officialdom. Yangban families, formerly well-respected for their status as a noble class, were increasingly seen as little more than commoners who were unwilling to meet their responsibilities to their communities. Faced with increasing corruption in the government, brigandage of the disenfranchised -(such as the mounted fire brigands, or \"Hwajok\", and the boat-borne water brigands or \"Sujok\")- as well as abuse by the military, many poor village folk sought to pool their resources such as land, tools and production in order to survive. Despite the government abolishing slavery and burning the records in 1801, increasing numbers of peasants and farmers become involved in KYE or \"mutual assistance associations\". Institutions such as the Catholic and Protestant missions, with the egalitarian nature of their teachings garnered followings among the Yangban, though commonly in the more urban areas.\n\nArguably of greater influence were the religious teachings of Choi Che-u, (최제우, 崔濟愚, 1824–1864) called Donghak or \"Eastern Learning\" which became especially popular in rural areas. Themes of Exclusionism (of foreign influences), Nationalism, Salvation and Social Consciousness were set to music allowing illiterate farmers to understand and accept them more readily. Choe, as well as many Koreans, was also alarmed by the intrusion of Christianity and the Anglo-French occupation of Beijing during the 2nd Opium War. He believed that the best way to counter foreign influence in Korea was to introduce democratic and human rights reforms internally. Nationalism and social reform struck a chord among the peasant guerrillas, and Donghak spread all across Korea. Progressive revolutionaries organized the peasants into a cohesive structure. Arrested in 1863 following the Chinju Uprising led by YU Kye-cheun, Choe was charged with \"misleading the people and sowing discord in society\". Choe was executed in 1864, sending many of his followers into hiding in the mountains and leaving the Korean populace to continue to suffer.\n\nKing Kojong (r. 1864-1910), enthroned at the age of twelve, succeeded King Cheolchong (r. 1849 - 1863). King Kojong's father, Heungseon Daewongun(Yi Ha-Ung; 1820-1898), ruled as the de facto regent and inaugurated far-ranging reform to strengthen the central administration. Among his targeted reforms was addressing the inherited rule by a few elite ruling families by the adoption of a merit system for official appointments. In addition, [Seowon] (private academies), which threatened to develop a parallel system to the corrupt government and enjoyed special privileges and large land-holdings, were repressed through taxes despite bitter opposition from Confucian scholars. The decision to rebuild palace buildings and finance it through additional levies on the population caused Heungseon Daewongun's attempted reforms to antagonize the three largest constituencies supporting the government: the ruling elite, the Confucian scholars and the general population. Heungseon Daewongun was impeached in 1873 and forced into retirement by the supporters of Empress Myeongseong.\n\nOn 27 February 1876, the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1876, also known in Japan as the Japanese-Korea Treaty of Amity (Japanese language: 日朝修好条規 Nitchō-shūkōjōki, Korean language: 강화도조약 江華島條約 Ganghwado joyak) was signed. It was designed to open up Korea to Japanese trade, and the rights granted to Japan under the treaty were similar to those granted Western powers in Japan following the visit of Commodore Perry in 1854.[9]. However, the treaty ended Korea's status as a protectorate of China, forced open three Korean ports to Japanese trade, granted extraterritorial rights to Japanese citizens and was an unequal treaty signed under duress of the Unyo Incident of 1875 (gunboat diplomacy).[9] Daewongun remained opposed to any concessions to Japan or the West, helped organize the Mutiny of 1882 Imo Incident, an anti-Japanese outbreak against the Empress and her allies. Motivated by resentment of the preferential treatment given to newly trained troops, Daewongun's forces, or \"old military\", killed Japanese training cadre and attacked the Japanese legation. Japanese diplomats, policemen, students and some Min clan members were also killed during the incident. Daewongun was restored to power briefly, only to be forcibly taken to China by Chinese troops dispatched to Seoul to prevent further disorder. In August 1882, the Treaty of Chemulpo (Japan–Korea Treaty of 1882) idemnified the families of the Japanese victims, paid reparation to the Japanese government in the amount of 500,000 yen and allowed a company of Japanese guards to be stationed at the Japanese legation in Seoul.\n\nThe struggle between Heungseon Daewongun's followers and those of Empress Myeongseong was further complicated by competition from a Korean independence faction known as the Progressive Party (Kaehwadang) as well as Conservative faction. While the former sought Japan's support, the latter sought China's support. On 4 December 1884, the Korean independence group, assisted by the Japanese, attempted a coup (Kapsin Chongbyon; Coup d'État of 1884) and established a pro-Japanese government under the reigning king, dedicated to the independence of Korea from Chinese suzerainty. However, this proved short-lived, as conservative Korean officials requested the help of Chinese forces stationed in Korea. The coup was put down by Chinese troops, and a Korean mob killed both Japanese officers and Japanese residents in retaliation. Some leaders of the independence faction, including Kim Okgyun, fled to Japan, while others were executed.\n\nThe outbreak of the Donghak Peasant Revolution in 1894 provided a seminal pretext for direct military intervention by Japan in the affairs of Korea. Seeking redress of long-standing hardship and corruption disparate factions among the Korean peasant population coalesced into a militant force and revolted against the Korean administration. In April, 1894 the Korean government asked for Chinese assistance in ending the Donghak Peasant Revolt. In response Japanese leaders, citing a violation of Convention of Tientsin as a pretext, decided upon military intervention to challenge China. China requested Japan withdraw her troops, Japan refused and proposed that the Qing and Japan co-ordinate to reform the Korean government. The Qing refused. On May 3, 1894, 1,500 Qing Dynasty forces appeared in Incheon. The same day, 6,000 Japanese forces also landed in Incheon leading to the Sino-Japanese War. Japan deposed the Korean government and installed a new government which demanded the Qing leave, and began a programme of reform. Japan won the First Sino-Japanese War, and China signed the Treaty of Shimonoseki in 1895. Among its many stipulations, the treaty recognized \"the full and complete independence and autonomy of Korea,\" thus ending Korea's tributary relationship with the Chinese Qing Dynasty, leading to the proclamation of full independence of Joseon Korea in 1895. At the same time, Japan suppressed the Donghak Revolution with Korean government forces. Though the revolt had been ended, the issues and complaints of the Korean peasant population remained unaddressed.\n\nThe reforms were done largely in three stages, according to the changing members of the reform council and the involvement of Japan. There were three stages of development.\n\nThe first reforms took place from July to October 1894, based on the original reform bill presented by Japanese ambassador Otori Keisuke (大鳥圭介), that had been previously refused by the Joseon court and Qing dynasty. As Japan was focused more on the Sino-Japanese War, many of the first reforms reflected the desired reforms of the progressive council members and some of the reforms demanded by the peasants of the Donghak Peasant Revolution did not go undenied. The deliberate Council passed 210 reform bills by Kim Hongjip. At the first stage of reform, there was little interference from Japan.\n\nTwo-hundred and ten articles were established, most notably the restructuring of central government by greatly reducing the king's responsibilities and placing more power in the \"Uijeongbu\". The \"gwageo\" system was abolished and replaced by a Japanese bureaucratic system. The administration of financial affairs were centralized, the taxation system redressed, a new monetary system allowed the use of Japanese currency, and the measurement system was changed to that of Japan. \nOther social reforms were addressed as well; discrimination based on the class system, slavery, underage marriage were all banned and widows were granted the right to remarry. These reforms would legally change the traditional feudal system that had been followed for hundreds of years.\n\nThe second state of reform took place from December 1894 to July 1895. Japan closed down the \"Gunguk Gimucheo\" in December 1894 as the outcome of the Sino-Japanese War was leaning to their favor and set up a new coalition cabinet consisting of Kim Hongjip and Park Younghyo. The cabinet presented a new law, \"Hongbeom 14jo\" (홍범 14조, \"Exemplary Rules\" 14 articles), which proclaimed the severance of the subordinate relationship with China, abolishment of nepotism in government, restructure of government offices and their duties. With this law as foundation, 213 new articles were created.\nThe names of \"Uijeongbu\" and its subsidiaries were changed to the modern \"naegak\" (내각, cabinet) and \"bu\" (부, department). Administrative districts were reorganized to 23 \"bu\"(부, region) and 337 \"gun\"(군, district). New financial bureaus were installed throughout the nation to overlook tax affairs, military and police systems were rehauled and modernized, judicial systems were changed with new courthouse and judiciary laws.\n\nThe second reform measures were halted when Park Young Hyo, who had been at the center of the reform efforts, fled to Japan after being accused of conspiracy to treason by those who were against the reformations that were taking place.\n\nThe Japanese minister to Korea, Miura Gorō, orchestrated a plot against 43-year-old Queen Min\n(later given the title Empress Myeongseong), and on 8 October 1895, she was assassinated by Japanese agents. In 2001, Russian reports on the assassination were found in the archives of the Foreign Ministry of the Russian Federation. The documents included the testimony of King Gojong, several witnesses of the assassination, and Karl Ivanovich Weber's report to Aleksey Lobanov-Rostovsky, the Foreign Minister of Russia. Weber was the chargé d'affaires at the Russian legation in Seoul at that time. According to a Russian eyewitness, Seredin-Sabatin (Середин-Cабатин), an employee of the Korean king, a group of Japanese agents entered Gyeongbokgung, killed Queen Min and desecrated her body in the north wing of the palace.\n\nWhen he heard the news, Heungseon Daewongun returned to the royal palace the same day. On 11 February 1896, King Gojong and the crown prince moved from Gyeongbokgung to the Russian legation in Jeong-dong, Seoul, from where they governed for about one year, an event known as the Korea royal refuge at the Russian legation. After returning to the royal palace, the royal family was still guarded by Russian guards.\n\nIn the midst of disarray in Joseon politics at this time, a series of Seonbi scholars mobilized volunteers to fight against the external foreign influence on the government. This also led to the uprising of the Eulmi temporary armies aimed at avenging the assassination of Queen Min.\n\nSpurred greatly by the assassination of the queen and subsequent unrest, the government, then led by a new progressive cabinet headed by Kim Hong-jip and Yu Kil-chun, carried out reforms from October 1895 to February 1896. A special reform body, \"Gunguk Gimucheo\" (군국기무처, Deliberative Council), was created to establish rules. Their policies resulted in the official discarding of the lunar calendar in favor of the modern Gregorian solar calendar, the official designation of regnal years independent of the Chinese tradition, the creation of a postal service, the introduction of primary schools and a new educational system and the renewal of the military system.\n\nThe most controversial reform at this time was the proclamation of the \"Short Hair Act\" (), i.e. cutting off the traditional Korean male sangtu and reformation of traditional attire. It triggered many protests among the people, most notably the conservative scholars, who were already disillusioned by the pro-Japanese cabinet. They had created the Righteous Army and had actively protested nationwide; protests which escalated after the assassination of Empress Myeongseong in 1895. After King Gojong and the Crown Prince fled for refuge to the Russian legation in 1896, this opposition resulted in the murders of Kim Hongjip and other cabinet members, and the reformations came to an end.\n\nThe Gabo Reform was similar to the Meiji Restoration in Japan and produced the following sweeping changes and declarations:\n\nAfter the Royal Refuge, some Korean activists established the Independence Club (독립협회, 獨立協會) in 1896. They claimed that Korea should negotiate with Western powers, particularly Russia, to counterbalance the growing influence of Japan and Russia. This club had contributed to the construction of Independence Gate, and they held regular meetings at the Jongno streets, demanding democratic reforms as Korea became a constitutional monarchy, and an end to Japanese and Russian influence in Korean affairs. In October 1897, King Gojong decided to return to his other palace, Deoksugung, and proclaimed the founding of the Korean Empire. During this period, the Korean government conducted a westernization policy. It was not an enduring reform, however, and the Independence Club was dissolved on 25 December 1898 as Emperor Gojong officially announced a prohibition on unofficial congresses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19381951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19381951", "title": "Iliad", "text": "Iliad\n\nThe Iliad (; \"\", in Classical Attic; sometimes referred to as the Song of Ilion or Song of Ilium) is an ancient Greek epic poem in dactylic hexameter, traditionally attributed to Homer. Set during the Trojan War, the ten-year siege of the city of Troy (Ilium) by a coalition of Greek states, it tells of the battles and events during the weeks of a quarrel between King Agamemnon and the warrior Achilles.\n\nAlthough the story covers only a few weeks in the final year of the war, the \"Iliad\" mentions or alludes to many of the Greek legends about the siege; the earlier events, such as the gathering of warriors for the siege, the cause of the war, and related concerns tend to appear near the beginning. Then the epic narrative takes up events prophesied for the future, such as Achilles' imminent death and the fall of Troy, although the narrative ends before these events take place. However, as these events are prefigured and alluded to more and more vividly, when it reaches an end the poem has told a more or less complete tale of the Trojan War.\n\nThe \"Iliad\" is paired with something of a sequel, the \"Odyssey\", also attributed to Homer. Along with the \"Odyssey\", the \"Iliad\" is among the oldest extant works of Western literature, and its written version is usually dated to around the 8th century BC. In the modern vulgate (the standard accepted version), the \"Iliad\" contains 15,693 lines; it is written in Homeric Greek, a literary amalgam of Ionic Greek and other dialects. According to Michael N. Nagler, the \"Iliad\" is a more complicated epic poem than the \"Odyssey\".\n\n() After an invocation to the Muses, the story launches \"in medias res\" towards the end of the Trojan War between the Trojans and the besieging Greeks. Chryses, a Trojan priest of Apollo, offers the Greeks wealth for the return of his daughter Chryseis, held captive of Agamemnon, the Greek leader. Although most of the Greek army is in favour of the offer, Agamemnon refuses. Chryses prays for Apollo's help, and Apollo causes a plague to afflict the Greek army.\n\nAfter nine days of plague, Achilles, the leader of the Myrmidon contingent, calls an assembly to deal with the problem. Under pressure, Agamemnon agrees to return Chryseis to her father, but decides to take Achilles' captive, Brisēís, as compensation. Angered, Achilles declares that he and his men will no longer fight for Agamemnon and will go home. Odysseus takes a ship and returns Chryseis to her father, whereupon Apollo ends the plague.\n\nIn the meantime, Agamemnon's messengers take Briseis away. Achilles becomes very upset, sits by the seashore, and prays to his mother, Thetis. Achilles asks his mother to ask Zeus to bring the Greeks to the breaking point by the Trojans, so Agamemnon will realize how much the Greeks need Achilles. Thetis does so, and Zeus agrees.\n\n() Zeus sends a dream to Agamemnon, urging him to attack Troy. Agamemnon heeds the dream but decides to first test the Greek army's morale, by telling them to go home. The plan backfires, and only the intervention of Odysseus, inspired by Athena, stops a rout.\n\nOdysseus confronts and beats Thersites, a common soldier who voices discontent about fighting Agamemnon's war. After a meal, the Greeks deploy in companies upon the Trojan plain. The poet takes the opportunity to describe the provenance of each Greek contingent.\n\nWhen news of the Greek deployment reaches King Priam, the Trojans too sortie upon the plain. In a list similar to that for the Greeks, the poet describes the Trojans and their allies.\n\n() The armies approach each other, but before they meet, Paris offers to end the war by fighting a duel with Menelaus, urged by his brother and head of the Trojan army, Hector. While Helen tells Priam about the Greek commanders from the walls of Troy, both sides swear a truce and promise to abide by the outcome of the duel. Paris is beaten, but Aphrodite rescues him and leads him to bed with Helen before Menelaus can kill him.\n\n() Pressured by Hera's hatred of Troy, Zeus arranges for the Trojan Pandaros to break the truce by wounding Menelaus with an arrow. Agamemnon rouses the Greeks, and battle is joined.\n\n() In the fighting, Diomedes kills many Trojans, including Pandaros, and defeats Aeneas, whom Aphrodite rescues, but Diomedes attacks and wounds the goddess. Apollo faces Diomedes and warns him against warring with gods. Many heroes and commanders join in, including Hector, and the gods supporting each side try to influence the battle. Emboldened by Athena, Diomedes wounds Ares and puts him out of action.\n\n() Hector rallies the Trojans and prevents a rout; the Greek Diomedes and the Trojan Glaukos find common ground and exchange unequal gifts. Hector enters the city, urges prayers and sacrifices, incites Paris to battle, bids his wife Andromache and son Astyanax farewell on the city walls, and rejoins the battle.\n\n() Hector duels with Ajax, but nightfall interrupts the fight, and both sides retire. The Greeks agree to burn their dead, and build a wall to protect their ships and camp, while the Trojans quarrel about returning Helen. Paris offers to return the treasure he took and give further wealth as compensation, but not Helen, and the offer is refused.\nA day's truce is agreed for burning the dead, during which the Greeks also build their wall and a trench.\n\n() The next morning, Zeus prohibits the gods from interfering, and fighting begins anew. The Trojans prevail and force the Greeks back to their wall, while Hera and Athena are forbidden to help. Night falls before the Trojans can assail the Greek wall. They camp in the field to attack at first light, and their watchfires light the plain like stars.\n() Meanwhile, the Greeks are desperate. Agamemnon admits his error, and sends an embassy composed of Odysseus, Ajax, Phoenix, and two heralds to offer Briseis and extensive gifts to Achilles, who has been camped next to his ships throughout, if only he will return to the fighting. Achilles and his companion Patroclus receive the embassy well, but Achilles angrily refuses Agamemnon's offer and declares that he would only return to battle if the Trojans reached his ships and threatened them with fire. The embassy returns empty-handed.\n\n() Later that night, Odysseus and Diomedes venture out to the Trojan lines, kill the Trojan Dolon, and wreak havoc in the camps of some Thracian allies of Troy's.\n\n() In the morning, the fighting is fierce, and Agamemnon, Diomedes, and Odysseus are all wounded. Achilles sends Patroclus from his camp to inquire about the Greek casualties, and while there Patroclus is moved to pity by a speech of Nestor's.\n\n() The Trojans attack the Greek wall on foot. Hector, ignoring an omen, leads the terrible fighting. The Greeks are overwhelmed and routed, the wall's gate is broken, and Hector charges in.\n\n() Many fall on both sides. The Trojan seer Polydamas urges Hector to fall back and warns him about Achilles, but is ignored.\n\n() Hera seduces Zeus and lures him to sleep, allowing Poseidon to help the Greeks, and the Trojans are driven back onto the plain.\n\n() Zeus awakes and is enraged by Poseidon's intervention. Against the mounting discontent of the Greek-supporting gods, Zeus sends Apollo to aid the Trojans, who once again breach the wall, and the battle reaches the ships.\n\n() Patroclus cannot stand to watch any longer and begs Achilles to be allowed to defend the ships. Achilles relents and lends Patroclus his armor, but sends him off with a stern admonition not to pursue the Trojans, lest he take Achilles' glory. Patroclus leads the Myrmidons into battle and arrives as the Trojans set fire to the first ships. The Trojans are routed by the sudden onslaught, and Patroclus begins his assault by killing Zeus's son Sarpedon, a leading ally of the Trojans. Patroclus, ignoring Achilles' command, pursues and reaches the gates of Troy, where Apollo himself stops him. Patroclus is set upon by Apollo and Euphorbos, and is finally killed by Hector.\n\n() Hector takes Achilles' armor from the fallen Patroclus, but fighting develops around Patroclus' body.\n\n() Achilles is mad with grief when he hears of Patroclus' death and vows to take vengeance on Hector; his mother Thetis grieves, too, knowing that Achilles is fated to die young if he kills Hector. Achilles is urged to help retrieve Patroclus' body but has no armour. Bathed in a brilliant radiance by Athena, Achilles stands next to the Greek wall and roars in rage. The Trojans are dismayed by his appearance, and the Greeks manage to bear Patroclus' body away. Polydamas urges Hector again to withdraw into the city; again Hector refuses, and the Trojans camp on the plain at nightfall. Patroclus is mourned. Meanwhile, at Thetis' request, Hephaestus fashions a new set of armor for Achilles, including a magnificently wrought shield.\n\n() In the morning, Agamemnon gives Achilles all the promised gifts, including Briseis, but Achilles is indifferent to them. Achilles fasts while the Greeks take their meal, straps on his new armor, and heaves his great spear. His horse Xanthos prophesies to Achilles his death. Achilles drives his chariot into battle.\n\n() Zeus lifts the ban on the gods' interference, and the gods freely help both sides. Achilles, burning with rage and grief, slays many.\n\n() Driving the Trojans before him, Achilles cuts off half their number in the river Skamandros and proceeds to slaughter them, filling the river with the dead. The river, angry at the killing, confronts Achilles but is beaten back by Hephaestus' firestorm. The gods fight among themselves. The great gates of the city are opened to receive the fleeing Trojans, and Apollo leads Achilles away from the city by pretending to be a Trojan.\n\n() When Apollo reveals himself to Achilles, the Trojans have retreated into the city, all except for Hector, who, having twice ignored the counsels of Polydamas, feels the shame of the rout and resolves to face Achilles, despite the pleas of his parents, Priam and Hecuba. When Achilles approaches, Hector's will fails him, and he is chased around the city by Achilles. Finally, Athena tricks him into stopping, and he turns to face his opponent. After a brief duel, Achilles stabs Hector through the neck. Before dying, Hector reminds Achilles that he, too, is fated to die in the war. Achilles takes Hector's body and dishonours it by dragging it behind his chariot.\n\n() The ghost of Patroclus comes to Achilles in a dream, urging him to carry out his burial rites and to arrange for their bones to be entombed together. The Greeks hold a day of funeral games, and Achilles gives out the prizes.\n\n() Dismayed by Achilles' continued abuse of Hector's body, Zeus decides that it must be returned to Priam. Led by Hermes, Priam takes a wagon out of Troy, across the plains, and into the Greek camp unnoticed. He clasps Achilles by the knees and begs for his son's body. Achilles is moved to tears, and the two lament their losses in the war. After a meal, Priam carries Hector's body back into Troy. Hector is buried, and the city mourns.\n\nThe many characters of the \"Iliad\" are catalogued; the latter half of Book II, the \"Catalogue of Ships\", lists commanders and cohorts; battle scenes feature quickly slain minor characters.\n\n\nMuch debate has surrounded the nature of the relationship of Achilles and Patroclus, as to whether it can be described as a homoerotic one or not. Classical and Hellenistic Athenian scholars perceived it as pederastic, while others perceived it as a platonic warrior-bond.\n\n\nIn the literary Trojan War of the \"Iliad\", the Olympian gods, goddesses, and minor deities fight among themselves and participate in human warfare, often by interfering with humans to counter other gods. Unlike their portrayals in Greek religion, Homer's portrayal of gods suited his narrative purpose. The gods in traditional thought of fourth-century Athenians were not spoken of in terms familiar to us from Homer. The Classical-era historian Herodotus says that Homer and Hesiod, his contemporary, were the first writers to name and describe the gods' appearance and character.\n\nIn \"Greek Gods Human Lives: What We Can Learn From Myths\", Mary Lefkowitz discusses the relevance of divine action in the \"Iliad\", attempting to answer the question of whether or not divine intervention is a discrete occurrence (for its own sake), or if such godly behaviors are mere human character metaphors. The intellectual interest of Classic-era authors, such as Thucydides and Plato, was limited to their utility as \"a way of talking about human life rather than a description or a truth\", because, if the gods remain religious figures, rather than human metaphors, their \"existence\"—without the foundation of either dogma or \"a\" bible of faiths—then allowed Greek culture the intellectual breadth and freedom to conjure gods fitting any religious function they required as a people. The religion had no founder and was not the creation of an inspired teacher which were popular origins of existing religions in the world. The individuals were free to believe what they wanted, as the Greek religion was created out of a consensus of the people. These beliefs coincide to the thoughts about the gods in polytheistic Greek religion. In the article \"Greek Religion\" A.W.H. Adkins, agrees with this by saying, “The early Greeks personalized every aspect of their world, natural and cultural, and their experiences in it. The earth, the sea, the mountains, the rivers, custom-law (themis), and one’s share in society and its goods were all seen in personal as well as naturalistic terms.” As a result of this thinking, each god or goddess in Polytheistic Greek religion is attributed to an aspect of the human world. For example, Poseidon is the god of the sea, Aphrodite is the goddess of beauty, Ares is the god of war, and so on and so forth for many other gods. This is how Greek culture was defined as many Athenians felt the presence of their gods through divine intervention in significant events in their lives. Oftentimes they found these events to be mysterious and inexplicable.\n\nIn \"The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind\", psychologist Julian Jaynes uses the \"Iliad\" as a major piece of evidence for his theory of Bicameralism, which posits that until about the time described in the \"Iliad\", humans had a much different mentality than present day humans. He says that humans during that time were lacking what we today call consciousness. He suggests that humans heard and obeyed commands from what they identified as gods, until the change in human mentality that incorporated the motivating force into the conscious self. He points out that almost every action in the \"Iliad\" is directed, caused, or influenced by a god, and that earlier translations show an astonishing lack of words suggesting thought, planning, or introspection. Those that do appear, he argues, are misinterpretations made by translators imposing a modern mentality on the characters.\n\nSome scholars believe that the gods may have intervened in the mortal world because of quarrels they may have had among each other. Homer interprets the world at this time by using the passion and emotion of the gods to be determining factors of what happens on the human level. An example of one of these relationships in the \"Iliad\" occurs between Athena, Hera, and Aphrodite. In the final book of the poem Homer writes, “He offended Athena and Hera—both goddesses.” Athena and Hera are envious of Aphrodite because of a beauty pageant on Mount Olympus in which Paris chose Aphrodite to be the most beautiful goddess over both Hera and Athena. Wolfgang Kullmann further goes on to say, “Hera’s and Athena’s disappointment over the victory of Aphrodite in the Judgement of Paris determines the whole conduct of both goddesses in \"The Iliad\" and is the cause of their hatred for Paris, the Judge, and his town Troy.” Hera and Athena then continue to support the Achaean forces throughout the poem because Paris is part of the Trojans, while Aphrodite aids Paris and the Trojans. The emotions between the goddesses often translate to actions they take in the mortal world. For example, in Book 3 of The Iliad, Paris challenges any of the Achaeans to a single combat and Menelaus steps forward. Menelaus was dominating the battle and was on the verge of killing Paris. “Now he’d have hauled him off and won undying glory but Aphrodite, Zeus’s daughter was quick to the mark, snapped the rawhide strap.” Aphrodite intervened out of her own self-interest to save Paris from the wrath of Menelaus because Paris had helped her to win the beauty pageant. The partisanship of Aphrodite towards Paris induces constant intervention by all of the gods, especially to give motivational speeches to their respective proteges, while often appearing in the shape of a human being they are familiar with. This connection of emotions to actions is just one example out of many that occur throughout the poem.\n\nFate (, \"kēr\", \"fated death\") propels most of the events of the \"Iliad\". Once set, gods and men abide it, neither truly able nor willing to contest it. How fate is set is unknown, but it is told by the Fates and by Zeus through sending omens to seers such as Calchas. Men and their gods continually speak of heroic acceptance and cowardly avoidance of one's slated fate. Fate does not determine every action, incident, and occurrence, but it does determine the outcome of life—before killing him, Hector calls Patroclus a fool Patroclus retorts:\n\nNo, deadly destiny, with the son of Leto, has killed me,\nand of men it was Euphorbos; you are only my third slayer.\nAnd put away in your heart this other thing that I tell you.\nYou yourself are not one who shall live long, but now already\ndeath and powerful destiny are standing beside you,\nto go down under the hands of Aiakos' great son, Achilleus.\nHere, Patroclus alludes to fated death by Hector's hand, and Hector's fated death by Achilles's hand. Each accepts the outcome of his life, yet, no-one knows if the gods can alter fate. The first instance of this doubt occurs in Book XVI. Seeing Patroclus about to kill Sarpedon, his mortal son, Zeus says:\nAh me, that it is destined that the dearest of men, Sarpedon,\nmust go down under the hands of Menoitios' son Patroclus.\nAbout his dilemma, Hera asks Zeus:\nMajesty, son of Kronos, what sort of thing have you spoken?\nDo you wish to bring back a man who is mortal, one long since\ndoomed by his destiny, from ill-sounding death and release him?\nDo it, then; but not all the rest of us gods shall approve you.\nIn deciding between losing a son or abiding fate, Zeus, King of the Gods, allows it. This motif recurs when he considers sparing Hector, whom he loves and respects. This time, it is Athene who challenges him:\nFather of the shining bolt, dark misted, what is this you said?\nDo you wish to bring back a man who is mortal, one long since\ndoomed by his destiny, from ill-sounding death and release him?\nDo it, then; but not all the rest of us gods shall approve you.\nAgain, Zeus appears capable of altering fate, but does not, deciding instead to abide set outcomes; yet, contrariwise, fate spares Aeneas, after Apollo convinces the over-matched Trojan to fight Achilles. Poseidon cautiously speaks:\nBut come, let us ourselves get him away from death, for fear\nthe son of Kronos may be angered if now Achilleus\nkills this man. It is destined that he shall be the survivor,\nthat the generation of Dardanos shall not die ...\nDivinely aided, Aeneas escapes the wrath of Achilles and survives the Trojan War. Whether or not the gods can alter fate, they do abide it, despite its countering their human allegiances; thus, the mysterious origin of fate is a power beyond the gods. Fate implies the primeval, tripartite division of the world that Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades effected in deposing their father, Cronus, for its dominion. Zeus took the Air and the Sky, Poseidon the Waters, and Hades the Underworld, the land of the dead—yet they share dominion of the Earth. Despite the earthly powers of the Olympic gods, only the Three Fates set the destiny of Man.\n\n\"Kleos\" (, \"glory, fame\") is the concept of glory earned in heroic battle. Yet, Achilles must choose only one of the two rewards, either \"nostos\" or \"kleos\". In Book IX (IX.410–16), he poignantly tells Agamemnon's envoys—Odysseus, Phoenix, Ajax—begging his reinstatement to battle about having to choose between two fates (, 9.411).\n\nThe passage reads:\nIn forgoing his \"nostos\", he will earn the greater reward of \"kleos aphthiton\" (, \"fame imperishable\"). In the poem, \"aphthiton\" (, \"imperishable\") occurs five other times, each occurrence denotes an object: Agamemnon's sceptre, the wheel of Hebe's chariot, the house of Poseidon, the throne of Zeus, the house of Hephaestus. Translator Lattimore renders \"kleos aphthiton\" as \"forever immortal\" and as \"forever imperishable\"—connoting Achilles's mortality by underscoring his greater reward in returning to battle Troy.\n\nKleos is often given visible representation by the prizes won in battle. When Agamemnon takes Briseis from Achilles, he takes away a portion of the kleos he had earned.\n\nAchilles' shield, crafted by Hephaestus and given to him by his mother Thetis, bears an image of stars in the centre. The stars conjure profound images of the place of a single man, no matter how heroic, in the perspective of the entire cosmos.\n\n\"Nostos\" (, \"homecoming\") occurs seven times in the poem, making it a minor theme in the Iliad itself. Yet the concept of homecoming is much explored in other Ancient Greek literature, especially in the post-war homeward fortunes experienced by the Atreidae (Agamemnon and Menelaus), and Odysseus (see the \"Odyssey\").\n\n\"Pride\" drives the plot of the Iliad. The Greeks gather on the plain of Troy to wrest Helen from the Trojans. Though the majority of the Trojans would gladly return Helen to the Greeks, they defer to the pride of their prince, Alexandros, also known as Paris. Within this frame, Homer’s work begins. At the start of the Iliad, Agamemnon’s pride sets forth a chain of events that leads him to take from Achilles, Briseis, the girl that he had originally given Achilles in return for his martial prowess. Due to this slight, Achilles refuses to fight and asks his mother, Thetis, to make sure that Zeus causes the Greeks to suffer on the battlefield until Agamemnon comes to realize the harm he has done to Achilles. Achilles’ pride allows him to beg Thetis for the deaths of his Greek friends and countrymen. When in Book 9 his friends urge him to return, offering him loot and his girl, Briseis, he refuses, stuck in his vengeful pride. Achilles remains stuck until the very end, when his anger at himself for Patroclus’ death overcomes his pride at Agamemnon’s slight and he returns to kill Hector. He overcomes his pride again when he keeps his anger in check and returns Hector to Priam at epic’s close. From epic start to epic finish, pride drives the plot.\n\nAkin to \"kleos\" is \"timê\" (, \"respect, honor\"), the concept denoting the respectability an honorable man accrues with accomplishment (cultural, political, martial), per his station in life. In Book I, the Greek troubles begin with King Agamemnon's dishonorable, unkingly behavior—first, by threatening the priest Chryses (1.11), then, by aggravating them in disrespecting Achilles, by confiscating Briseis from him (1.171). The warrior's consequent rancor against the dishonorable king ruins the Greek military cause.\n\n\"Hybris\" (\"Ὕβρις\") plays a part similar to \"timê.\" The epic takes as its thesis the anger of Achilles and the destruction it brings. Anger disturbs the distance between human beings and the gods. Uncontrolled anger destroys orderly social relationships and upsets the balance of correct actions necessary to keep the gods away from human beings. (footnote Thompson). Despite the epic’s focus on Achilles’ rage, hybris plays a prominent role also, serving as both kindling and fuel for many destructive events. Agamemnon refuses to ransom Chriseis up out of hybris and harms Achilles’ pride when he demands Briseis. Hybris forces Paris to fight against Menelaus. Agamemnon spurs the Greeks to fight, by calling into question Odysseus, Diomedes, and Nestor’s pride, asking why they were cowering and waiting for help when they should be the ones leading the charge. While the events of the Iliad focus on the Achilles’ rage and the destruction it brings on, hybris fuels and stokes them both.\n\nThe poem's initial word, (\"mēnin\", accusative of , \"mēnis\", \"wrath, rage, fury\"), establishes the \"Iliad's\" principal theme: The \"Wrath of Achilles\". His personal rage and wounded soldier's vanity propel the story: the Greeks' faltering in battle, the slayings of Patroclus and Hector, and the fall of Troy. In Book I, the Wrath of Achilles first emerges in the Achilles-convoked meeting, between the Greek kings and the seer Calchas. King Agamemnon dishonours Chryses, the Trojan priest of Apollo, by refusing with a threat the restitution of his daughter, Chryseis—despite the proffered ransom of \"gifts beyond count\". The insulted priest prays his god's help, and a nine-day rain of divine plague arrows falls upon the Greeks. Moreover, in that meeting, Achilles accuses Agamemnon of being \"greediest for gain of all men\". To that, Agamemnon replies:\nBut here is my threat to you.\nEven as Phoibos Apollo is taking away my Chryseis.\nI shall convey her back in my own ship, with my own\nfollowers; but I shall take the fair-cheeked Briseis,\nyour prize, I myself going to your shelter, that you may learn well\nhow much greater I am than you, and another man may shrink back\nfrom likening himself to me and contending against me.\nAfter that, only Athena stays Achilles's wrath. He vows to never again obey orders from Agamemnon. Furious, Achilles cries to his mother, Thetis, who persuades Zeus's divine intervention—favouring the Trojans—until Achilles's rights are restored. Meanwhile, Hector leads the Trojans to almost pushing the Greeks back to the sea (Book XII). Later, Agamemnon contemplates defeat and retreat to Greece (Book XIV). Again, the Wrath of Achilles turns the war's tide in seeking vengeance when Hector kills Patroclus. Aggrieved, Achilles tears his hair and dirties his face. Thetis comforts her mourning son, who tells her:\nSo it was here that the lord of men Agamemnon angered me.\nStill, we will let all this be a thing of the past, and for all our\nsorrow beat down by force the anger deeply within us.\nNow I shall go, to overtake that killer of a dear life,\nHektor; then I will accept my own death, at whatever\ntime Zeus wishes to bring it about, and the other immortals.\nAccepting the prospect of death as fair price for avenging Patroclus, he returns to battle, dooming Hector and Troy, thrice chasing him 'round the Trojan walls, before slaying him, then dragging the corpse behind his chariot, back to camp.\n\nThe poem dates to the archaic period of Classical Antiquity. Scholarly consensus mostly places it in the 8th century BC, although some favour a 7th-century date. Herodotus, having consulted the Oracle at Dodona, placed Homer and Hesiod at approximately 400 years before his own time, which would place them at c.850 BC.\n\nThe historical backdrop of the poem is the time of the Late Bronze Age collapse, in the early 12th century BC. Homer is thus separated from his subject matter by about 400 years, the period known as the Greek Dark Ages. Intense scholarly debate has surrounded the question of which portions of the poem preserve genuine traditions from the Mycenaean period. The \"Catalogue of Ships\" in particular has the striking feature that its geography does not portray Greece in the Iron Age, the time of Homer, but as it was before the Dorian invasion.\n\nThe title \"Ilias\" (genitive \"Iliados\") is elliptic for \"he poíesis Iliás\", meaning \"the Trojan poem\". , \"of Troy\", is the specifically feminine adjective form from , \"Troy\"; the masculine adjective form would be or . It is used by Herodotus.\n\nVenetus A, copied in the 10th century AD, is the oldest fully extant manuscript of the \"Iliad.\"\nThe first edition of the \"Iliad\", \"editio princeps\", edited by Demetrius Chalcondyles and published by Bernardus Nerlius, and Demetrius Damilas in Florence in 1488/89.\n\nIn antiquity, the Greeks applied the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" as the bases of pedagogy. Literature was central to the educational-cultural function of the itinerant rhapsode, who composed \"consistent\" epic poems from memory and improvisation, and disseminated them, via song and chant, in his travels and at the Panathenaic Festival of athletics, music, poetics, and sacrifice, celebrating Athena's birthday.\n\nOriginally, Classical scholars treated the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" as written poetry, and Homer as a writer. Yet, by the 1920s, Milman Parry (1902–1935) had launched a movement claiming otherwise. His investigation of the oral Homeric style—\"stock epithets\" and \"reiteration\" (words, phrases, stanzas)—established that these \"formulae\" were artifacts of oral tradition easily applied to an hexametric line. A two-word stock epithet (e.g. \"resourceful Odysseus\") reiteration may complement a character name by filling a half-line, thus, freeing the poet to compose a half-line of \"original\" formulaic text to complete his meaning. In Yugoslavia, Parry and his assistant, Albert Lord (1912–1991), studied the oral-formulaic composition of Serbian oral poetry, yielding the Parry/Lord thesis that established oral tradition studies, later developed by Eric Havelock, Marshall McLuhan, Walter Ong, and Gregory Nagy.\n\nIn \"The Singer of Tales\" (1960), Lord presents likenesses between the tragedies of the Greek Patroclus, in the \"Iliad\", and of the Sumerian Enkidu, in the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", and claims to refute, with \"careful analysis of the repetition of thematic patterns\", that the Patroclus storyline upsets Homer's established compositional formulae of \"wrath, bride-stealing, and rescue\"; thus, stock-phrase \"reiteration\" does not restrict his originality in fitting story to rhyme. Likewise, in \"The Arming Motif\", Prof. James Armstrong reports that the poem's \"formulae\" yield richer meaning because the \"arming motif\" \"diction\"—describing Achilles, Agamemnon, Paris, and Patroclus—serves to \"heighten the importance of ... an impressive moment\", thus, \"[reiteration] creates an atmosphere of smoothness\", wherein, Homer distinguishes Patroclus from Achilles, and foreshadows the former's death with positive and negative turns of phrase.\n\nIn the \"Iliad\", occasional syntactic inconsistency may be an oral tradition effect—for example, Aphrodite is \"laughter-loving\", despite being painfully wounded by Diomedes (Book V, 375); and the divine representations may mix Mycenaean and Greek Dark Age (c. 1150–800 BC) mythologies, parallelling the hereditary \"basileis\" nobles (lower social rank rulers) with minor deities, such as Scamander, et al.\n\nDespite Mycenae and Troy being maritime powers, the \"Iliad\" features no sea battles. So, the Trojan shipwright (of the ship that transported Helen to Troy), Phereclus, fights afoot, as an infantryman. The battle dress and armour of hero and soldier are well-described. They enter battle in chariots, launching javelins into the enemy formations, then dismount—for hand-to-hand combat with yet more javelin throwing, rock throwing, and if necessary hand to hand sword and a shoulder-borne \"hoplon\" (shield) fighting. Ajax the Greater, son of Telamon, sports a large, rectangular shield (, \"sakos\") with which he protects himself and Teucer, his brother:\n\nAjax's cumbersome shield is more suitable for defence than for offence, while his cousin, Achilles, sports a large, rounded, octagonal shield that he successfully deploys along with his spear against the Trojans:\n\nIn describing infantry combat, Homer names the phalanx formation, but most scholars do not believe the historical Trojan War was so fought. In the Bronze Age, the chariot was the main battle transport-weapon (e.g. the Battle of Kadesh). The available evidence, from the Dendra armour and the Pylos Palace paintings, indicate the Mycenaeans used two-man chariots, with a long-spear-armed principal rider, unlike the three-man Hittite chariots with short-spear-armed riders, and unlike the arrow-armed Egyptian and Assyrian two-man chariots. Nestor spearheads his troops with chariots; he advises them:\n\nAlthough Homer's depictions are graphic, it can be seen in the very end that victory in war is a far more somber occasion, where all that is lost becomes apparent. On the other hand, the funeral games are lively, for the dead man's life is celebrated. This overall depiction of war runs contrary to many other ancient Greek depictions, where war is an aspiration for greater glory.\n\nWhile the Homeric poems (the \"Iliad\" in particular) were not necessarily revered scripture of the ancient Greeks, they were most certainly seen as guides that were important to the intellectual understanding of any educated Greek citizen. This is evidenced by the fact that in the late fifth century BC, \"it was the sign of a man of standing to be able to recite the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" by heart.\" Moreover, it can be argued that the warfare shown in the \"Iliad\", and the way in which it was depicted, had a profound and very traceable effect on Greek warfare in general. In particular, the effect of epic literature can be broken down into three categories: tactics, ideology, and the mindset of commanders. In order to discern these effects, it is necessary to take a look at a few examples from each of these categories.\n\nMuch of the detailed fighting in the \"Iliad\" is done by the heroes in an orderly, one-on-one fashion. Much like the \"Odyssey\", there is even a set ritual which must be observed in each of these conflicts. For example, a major hero may encounter a lesser hero from the opposing side, in which case the minor hero is introduced, threats may be exchanged, and then the minor hero is slain. The victor often strips the body of its armor and military accoutrements. Here is an example of this ritual and this type of one-on-one combat in the \"Iliad\":\nThere Telamonian Ajax struck down the son of Anthemion,\nSimoeisios in his stripling's beauty, whom once his mother\ndescending from Ida bore beside the banks of Simoeis\nwhen she had followed her father and mother to tend the\nsheepflocks.\nTherefore they called him Simoeisios; but he could not\nrender again the care of his dear parents; he was short-lived,\nbeaten down beneath the spear of high-hearted Ajax,\nwho struck him as he first came forward beside the nipple\nof the right breast, and the bronze spearhead drove clean\nthrough the shoulder.\nThe biggest issue in reconciling the connection between the epic fighting of the \"Iliad\" and later Greek warfare is the phalanx, or hoplite, warfare seen in Greek history well after Homer's \"Iliad\". While there are discussions of soldiers arrayed in semblances of the phalanx throughout the \"Iliad\", the focus of the poem on the heroic fighting, as mentioned above, would seem to contradict the tactics of the phalanx. However, the phalanx did have its heroic aspects. The masculine one-on-one fighting of epic is manifested in phalanx fighting on the emphasis of holding one's position in formation. This replaces the singular heroic competition found in the \"Iliad\".\n\nOne example of this is the Spartan tale of 300 picked men fighting against 300 picked Argives. In this battle of champions, only two men are left standing for the Argives and one for the Spartans. Othryades, the remaining Spartan, goes back to stand in his formation with mortal wounds while the remaining two Argives go back to Argos to report their victory. Thus, the Spartans claimed this as a victory, as their last man displayed the ultimate feat of bravery by maintaining his position in the phalanx.\n\nIn terms of the ideology of commanders in later Greek history, the \"Iliad\" has an interesting effect. The \"Iliad\" expresses a definite disdain for tactical trickery, when Hector says, before he challenges the great Ajax: \n\nI know how to storm my way into the struggle of flying horses; I know how to tread the measures on the grim floor of the war god. Yet great as you are I would not strike you by stealth, watching for my chance, but openly, so, if perhaps I might hit you.\n\nHowever, despite examples of disdain for this tactical trickery, there is reason to believe that the \"Iliad\", as well as later Greek warfare, endorsed tactical genius on the part of their commanders. For example, there are multiple passages in the \"Iliad\" with commanders such as Agamemnon or Nestor discussing the arraying of troops so as to gain an advantage. Indeed, the Trojan War is won by a notorious example of Greek guile in the Trojan Horse. This is even later referred to by Homer in the \"Odyssey\". The connection, in this case, between guileful tactics of the Greeks in the \"Iliad\" and those of the later Greeks is not a difficult one to find. Spartan commanders, often seen as the pinnacle of Greek military prowess, were known for their tactical trickery, and, for them, this was a feat to be desired in a commander. Indeed, this type of leadership was the standard advice of Greek tactical writers.\n\nUltimately, while Homeric (or epic) fighting is certainly not completely replicated in later Greek warfare, many of its ideals, tactics, and instruction are.\n\nHans van Wees argues that the period that the descriptions of warfare relate can be pinned down fairly specifically—to the first half of the 7th century BC.\n\nThe \"Iliad\" was a standard work of great importance already in Classical Greece and remained so throughout the Hellenistic and Byzantine periods. Subjects from the Trojan War were a favourite among ancient Greek dramatists. Aeschylus' trilogy, the \"Oresteia\", comprising \"Agamemnon\", \"The Libation Bearers\" and \"The Eumenides\", follows the story of Agamemnon after his return from the war. Homer also came to be of great influence in European culture with the resurgence of interest in Greek antiquity during the Renaissance, and it remains the first and most influential work of the Western canon. In its full form the text made its return to Italy and Western Europe beginning in the 15th century, primarily through translations into Latin and the vernacular languages. \n\nPrior to this reintroduction, however, a shortened Latin version of the poem, known as the \"Ilias Latina\", was very widely studied and read as a basic school text. The West tended to view Homer as unreliable as they believed they possessed much more down to earth and realistic eyewitness accounts of the Trojan War written by Dares and Dictys Cretensis, who were supposedly present at the events. These late antique forged accounts formed the basis of several eminently popular medieval chivalric romances, most notably those of Benoît de Sainte-Maure and Guido delle Colonne. These in turn spawned many others in various European languages, such as the first printed English book, the 1473 \"Recuyell of the Historyes of Troye\". Other accounts read in the Middle Ages were antique Latin retellings such as the \"Excidium Troiae\" and works in the vernaculars such as the Icelandic Troy Saga. Even without Homer, the Trojan War story had remained central to Western European medieval literary culture and its sense of identity. Most nations and several royal houses traced their origins to heroes at the Trojan War. Britain was supposedly settled by the Trojan Brutus, for instance.\n\nWilliam Shakespeare used the plot of the \"Iliad\" as source material for his play \"Troilus and Cressida\", but focused on a medieval legend, the love story of Troilus, son of King Priam of Troy, and Cressida, daughter of the Trojan soothsayer Calchas. The play, often considered to be a comedy, reverses traditional views on events of the Trojan War and depicts Achilles as a coward, Ajax as a dull, unthinking mercenary, etc.\n\nWilliam Theed the elder made an impressive bronze statue of Thetis as she brought Achilles his new armor forged by Hephaesthus. It has been on display in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City since 2013.\n\nRobert Browning's poem \"Development\" discusses his childhood introduction to the matter of the \"Iliad\" and his delight in the epic, as well as contemporary debates about its authorship.\n\n\n\nGeorge Chapman published his translation of the \"Iliad\", in installments, beginning in 1598, published in \"fourteeners\", a long-line ballad metre that \"has room for all of Homer's figures of speech and plenty of new ones, as well as explanations in parentheses. At its best, as in Achilles' rejection of the embassy in \"Iliad\" Nine; it has great rhetorical power\". It quickly established itself as a classic in English poetry. In the preface to his own translation, Pope praises \"the daring fiery spirit\" of Chapman's rendering, which is \"something like what one might imagine Homer, himself, would have writ before he arrived at years of discretion\".\n\nJohn Keats praised Chapman in the sonnet \"On First Looking into Chapman's Homer\" (1816). John Ogilby's mid-seventeenth-century translation is among the early annotated editions; Alexander Pope's 1715 translation, in heroic couplet, is \"The classic translation that was built on all the preceding versions\", and, like Chapman's, it is a major poetic work in its own right. William Cowper's Miltonic, blank verse 1791 edition is highly regarded for its greater fidelity to the Greek than either the Chapman or the Pope versions: \"I have omitted nothing; I have invented nothing\", Cowper says in prefacing his translation.\n\nIn the lectures \"On Translating Homer\" (1861), Matthew Arnold addresses the matters of translation and interpretation in rendering the \"Iliad\" to English; commenting upon the versions contemporarily available in 1861, he identifies the four \"essential\" poetic qualities of Homer to which the translator must do justice:\n[i] that he is eminently rapid; [ii] that he is eminently plain and direct, both in the evolution of his thought and in the expression of it, that is, both in his syntax and in his words; [iii] that he is eminently plain and direct in the substance of his thought, that is, in his matter and ideas; and, finally, [iv] that he is eminently noble.\nAfter a discussion of the metres employed by previous translators, Arnold argues for a poetical dialect hexameter translation of the \"Iliad\", like the original. \"Laborious as this meter was, there were at least half a dozen attempts to translate the entire \"Iliad\" or \"Odyssey\" in hexameters; the last in 1945. Perhaps the most fluent of them was by J. Henry Dart [1862] in response to Arnold\". In 1870, the American poet William Cullen Bryant published a blank verse version, that Van Wyck Brooks describes as \"simple, faithful\".\n\nAn 1898 translation by Samuel Butler was published by Longmans. Butler had read Classics at Cambridge University, graduating during 1859.\n\nSince 1950, there have been several English translations. Richmond Lattimore's version (1951) is \"a free six-beat\" line-for-line rendering that explicitly eschews \"poetical dialect\" for \"the plain English of today\". It is literal, unlike older verse renderings. Robert Fitzgerald's version (Oxford World's Classics, 1974) strives to situate the \"Iliad\" in the musical forms of English poetry. His forceful version is freer, with shorter lines that increase the sense of swiftness and energy. Robert Fagles (Penguin Classics, 1990) and Stanley Lombardo (1997) are bolder than Lattimore in adding dramatic significance to Homer's conventional and formulaic language. Rodney Merrill's translation (University of Michigan Press, 2007) not only renders the work in English verse like the dactylic hexameter of the original, but also conveys the oral-formulaic nature of the epic song, to which that musical meter gives full value. Barry B. Powell's translation (Oxford University Press, 2014) renders the Homeric Greek with a simplicity and dignity reminiscent of the original. Caroline Alexander published the first full-length English translation by a woman in 2016.\n\nThere are more than 2000 manuscripts of Homer. Some of the most notable manuscripts include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22973367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22973367", "title": "Immortality Drive", "text": "Immortality Drive\n\nThe Immortality Drive is a large memory device which was taken to the International Space Station in a Soyuz spacecraft on October 12, 2008. The Immortality Drive contains fully digitized DNA sequences of a select group of humans, such as physicist Stephen Hawking, comedian and talk show host Stephen Colbert, \"Playboy\" model Jo Garcia, game designer Richard Garriott, fantasy authors Tracy Hickman and Laura Hickman, pro wrestler Matt Morgan, and athlete Lance Armstrong. The microchip also contains a copy of \"George's Secret Key to the Universe\", a children's book authored by Stephen Hawking and his daughter, Lucy.\n\nThe intent of the Immortality Drive is to preserve human DNA in a time capsule, in case some global cataclysm should occur on Earth.\n\nThe Immortality Drive was featured in History Channel's \"Life After People\", first-season episode \"The Bodies Left Behind\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14940227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14940227", "title": "John B. Stephenson", "text": "John B. Stephenson\n\nJohn B. Stephenson (September 26, 1937 – December 6, 1994) was a sociologist and scholar of Appalachia, a founder of the Appalachian Studies Conference, and president of Berea College from 1984 to 1994.\n\nJohn B. Stephenson was born in Staunton, Virginia, on September 26, 1937.\n\nHe earned a B.A. degree in sociology from the College of William and Mary in Virginia in 1959, and M.A. (1961) and Ph.D. (1966) degrees in sociology from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. His dissertation, a community study of Celo, North Carolina, became his first book, \"Shiloh: A Mountain Community\" (1968).\n\nHe began his teaching career at Lees-McRae College in Banner Elk, North Carolina, from 1961 to 1964, where he met and married a colleague, Jane Ellen Baucom, in 1962. After returning to Chapel Hill to complete his doctoral studies, he joined department of sociology at the University of Kentucky in Lexington in the fall of 1966. Connecting with the emerging field of Appalachian studies, he co-edited \"Appalachia in the Sixties\" (1972) with sociology graduate student David Walls. He served as dean of undergraduate studies from 1978 to 1981, as special assistant to the chancellor in 1983-84, and was the first director of the Appalachian Center, which he was instrumental in helping organize, from 1979 to 1984. During this time he became an incorporator and first chair of the Appalachian Studies Conference (now known as the Appalachian Studies Association).\n\nIn 1984 he was appointed the seventh president of Berea College in Berea, Kentucky, the first president of the liberal arts college to come from a public university. During his tenure as president, Berea College reemphasized its historic commitment to African American and Appalachian students. The college also took initiatives to support women, including Jane Stephenson's New Opportunity School for Women. Faculty and staff salaries were increased significantly.\n\nJohn Stephenson established ties with a diverse group of notable people whom he brought to speak at Berea College, from \"Roots\" author Alex Haley, and Archbishop Desmond Tutu of South Africa, to the Dalai Lama. Stephenson established the Tibetan scholarship program, which supports students at Berea College from the Tibetan exile community in India. He was also a successful fundraiser; during his tenure as president, the Berea College endowment increased from $120 to $360 million. Stephenson retired in July 1994, several years after he was diagnosed with leukemia. He died suddenly after a viral infection in December 1994.\n\nHe was selected as an American Council on Education Fellow in 1973-74, and as a Fulbright Senior Research Scholar in 1981, which he used for research in Scotland which was presented in his book, \"Ford: A Village in the West Highlands of Scotland\" (1984). He served on boards of the Kentucky Literacy Foundation, the national Elderhostel program, the Frontier Nursing Service, and the Appalachian Regional Hospitals. \n\n\nThomas R. Ford and J. Randolph Osborne, eds. \"John B. Stephenson: Appalachian Humanist\". Ashland, Kentucky: The Jesse Stuart Foundation, 2001. \n"}
{"id": "58225237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58225237", "title": "Jones-Liddell feud", "text": "Jones-Liddell feud\n\nThe Jones-Liddell feud (1847-1870) also known as the Liddell-Jones feud or the Black River War was an ongoing warring dispute between two prominent families from Catahoula Parish, Louisiana. It resulted in the death of at least six people with other estimates suggesting as many as fourteen.\n\nPersonal allegiances to one faction or another, as well as sensationalized press accounts during and after the series of events provide for a variance of details concerning the Jones-Liddell feud. It was born however from disagreements between two individuals; Gen. St. John Richardson Liddell and Lt. Col. Charles Jones. Each of these men were members of the Whig Party in the 1850s, and held significant wealth leading up to the Civil War. Liddell was the second largest slave owner in Catahoula parish, with 115 slaves, while Jones owned 101 slaves. Each served as the patriarch of his respective family, with children who also would become participants in the feud. Both of these rivaling plantation owners arrived in Catahoula Parish at approximately the same time (1837-1840), and each would later serve in the Confederate Army. Following the war however, Liddell remained a loyal Democrat and defender of the southern cause. Jones however, became a Republican convert, at a time when the federal government installed Republican loyalists in government across the state.\n\nGeneral Liddell was the son of a wealthy plantation owner from Wilkinson County, Mississippi. After reaching the age of adulthood, he moved to Catahoula Parish on the Black River, and constructed a plantation which he named \"Llanada\" near Harrisonburg, Louisiana. Liddell had attended West Point, and was a personal friend of future Confederate President Jefferson Davis.\n\nCol. Jones was born in Kentucky, married in Ohio, and eventually settled in Catahoula Parish and established a plantation named \"Troy,\" also on the Black River, approximately five miles south of Liddell's plantation. Jones was second in command of the 17th Volunteer Louisiana Infantry, but was injured early in the war.\n\nThe most widely accepted account of how the feud began involves a neighboring family to both Liddell and Jones. Phillip and Eliza Nichols, who were personal friends of the Liddell family, owned a prominent piece of land that Col. Jones greatly coveted. Most accounts suggest that Jones had publicly maligned the character and virtue of Mrs. Nichols. Mrs. Eliza Nichols made a personal request for General Liddell to accompany her in confronting Col. Jones about his efforts to disparage her character. Gen. Liddell agreed and together they confronted Col. Jones at his home. As Mrs. Nichols approached Col. Jones however, she pulled out a pistol and shot him in the face; an action that General Liddell claimed he did not expect from her, nor have prior knowledge of.\n\nCol. Jones was injured, but the gunshot did not kill him. Rather than holding Mrs. Nichols as the responsible party for his injury, he solely placed the blame on General Liddell. As Col. Jones rested at home in recovery, rumors began to escalate that Jones was plotting a revenge attack on Liddell and his family. The tensions would continue to escalate, and each family found themselves consumed with fortifying their respective plantations, and stocking up on guns and ammunition. Residents in the community feverishly fueled these tensions, and unofficial factions began to form throughout the area.\n\nTensions between the two feuding families found a temporary reprieve, when Col. Jones and his wife left for Ohio for a period of four years. Many accounts suggest that Col. Jones continued to send threats to Liddell during this time, stating his intention to return and kill him. In 1852, Jones made his return to his plantation on the Black River, accompanied by hired assassins, including one notoriously known as such by the name of Richard Pryor.\n\nWith Jones' return to Catahoula Parish, aided by what appeared to be hired guns, and encouraged by friends who sided with the Jones family, the feud once again stoked tensions in the region.\n\nA nephew of Col. Jones by the name of Sam Smith added his name to the list of those publicly professing he would kill General Liddell.\n\nOne account suggests that on Election Day, Pryor and Smith waited for Liddell behind trees on what they believed was a path Liddell would be traveling en route to cast his vote. Another friend of Col. Jones by the name of Henry Huntington went to Liddell's \"Llanada\" and discharged his pistol. He then publicly called General Liddell a coward, and challenged him to a duel to be held on the Texas state line. Liddell however believed the challenge was merely another attempt towards assassination, should Liddell travel to the Texas line, and therefore declined.\n\nYet another Jones sympathizer by the name of Samuel Glenn made public threats against Liddell and his family. Liddell was tipped off that Glenn and Pryor were in town, and had plans at yet another attempt on his life. On June 26, 1852, Samuel Glen and a neighbor of Liddell's by the name of Moses Wiggins were ambushed by the road near \"Trinity.\" Liddell professes to having killed them both, but admitted he mistook Moses Wiggins for Pryor. Though Wiggins too had been a Jones sympathizer, Liddell actually killed him by mistake. Liddell was arrested for murder.\n\nLiddell's friends and allies defended his actions due to the well established public threats that had been levied toward his life. Liddell hired well established attorneys from both Natchez, as well as Louisiana. Despite two grand juries, Liddell was finally acquitted in 1854.\n\nThe feud quieted down as a result of the American Civil War. Both Liddell and Jones each enlisted in support of the Confederate cause. \n\nFollowing the crippling defeat of the Confederate States, both Liddell and Jones each returned home to try and salvage the once prosperous plantations. The economic fate of each man would be determined over the next five years largely by the political choices each made.\n\nDuring these early years of reconstruction, a political divide was created that ultimately resulted in terror and lawlessness throughout the south. With post-war government being installed by federal forces, southern sympathizers and loyal Democrats found themselves on the outside looking in. Only days before President Lincoln's assassination, he installed William Pitt Kellogg as the federal collector of customs in New Orleans. This began a twenty-year reign by the northerner in what became known as the Kellogg Government. Natives of the state resisted violently and violence occurred throughout the state.\n\nGeneral Liddell was a staunch and loyal Democrat, who remained opposed to the Kellogg government. Col. Jones on the other hand, sensing a need to protect his estate and future fortunes, became a new convert for the Republicans. The reach of the Kellogg government reached all the way down to the local level, where in Catahoula Parish, the Sheriff and the Judge were placed in their positions of power as known Kellogg loyalists.\n\nAs a result, many local citizens expressed their opposition to Republican rule by siding with General Liddell. Col. Jones on the other hand, found certain advantages of his own by being politically connected to those in power with the Kellogg government.\n\nWhen Liddell returned to \"Llanada\" after the war, it was on the verge of financial ruins. No longer able to utilize slave labor, and with banks setup by northerners lending money at high interest rates, Liddell faced complete ruin, and would ultimately see his beloved Llanada forced into a sale at public auction, in order to cover Liddell's debts.\n\nCol. Jones on the other hand did not face the same economic fate. When Liddell's Llanada was placed up for auction, Jones began to negotiate with a third party to purchase the place. Upon discovering Jones' interest in acquiring his property, Liddell sent a warning to Jones, intimating bluntly that he could not stand for Jones to seize the property which held the graves of his dead family. Once again, tensions became heated between the two factions.\n\nBoth Liddell and Jones were frequent visitors to New Orleans, which could be reached by riverboat with moderate ease. In 1870, Liddell had boarded the steamer on the Black River heading to New Orleans. The captain knew that Col. Jones had coincidentally also planned a trip to New Orleans and would be boarding the steamer. Sensing potential trouble ahead, he alerted General Liddell of this news. Liddell at once had him send word to Jones that he should not board the steamer. Upon receiving this news, Jones at once gathered his sons and took off by horseback to a loading dock south of his own landing.\n\nWhen the steamer pulled in at that place, Gen. Liddell was seated having lunch, unaware of the pending danger. Jones and his sons boarded the steamer and drew their weapons on Liddell. Upon seeing their entry, the captain alerted Liddell at once that the men were coming to murder him. Liddell rose to draw his weapon in defense, but Jones and his sons fired away, killing General Liddell instantly.\n\nUpon hearing the news of General Liddell's death, shock and horror enveloped the entire region. Col. Jones and his sons were placed under arrest, but Sheriff Oliver Ballard, a Republican ally of Jones, allowed them to remain in custody at his personal home.\n\nDays after the murder of General Liddell, his son Moses \"Judge\" Liddell was traveling on a steamer near the Sheriff's home where Jones and his sons had been placed under house arrest. While passing this place, Moses Liddell saw Col. Jones walking down near the river, and at once raised his gun and took aim. He fired upon Jones, making no excuse for himself other than retribution for the murder of his father. Moses Liddell's shot however did not kill Col. Jones.\n\nUltimately, the residents of the area by this point demanded retribution, but sensed none was in order due to Jones' Republican political ties. A mob soon formed, and they stormed the place where Jones and his sons were being held. The mob ultimately killed Col. Jones, as well as his son William. Others found at the place were spared. One son of Jones, Cuthbert Bullitt, slipped out of a second story window, and held on to the ledge, so as not to be found. His life was spared as a result.\n\nThe deaths from the feud came to an end as a result of the mob's actions. General Liddell was buried at Llanada plantation. Col. Jones and his son were both interred on the family cemetery at his Everly Plantation.\n\nThe community of Jonesville, Louisiana was established near Everly plantation, after Jones' widow helped establish it. The area had been known as Trinity, but Jonesville became her name of choice for the new town.\n\nMoses \"Judge\" Liddell moved his family from the area, taking residence in Richland Parish on the banks of Boeuf River. There he was elected to the Louisiana House of Representatives. He later moved to Monroe, and was appointed by Democratic President Grover Cleveland as a justice on the Supreme Court of territorial Montana.\n\nCuthburt Jones, having narrowly survived the lynch mob, made a trip to Washington, where he met with President Grant and relayed the tragic events of the feud. Being loyal and sympathetic to Jones as a fellow Republican, Grant appointed him as a consul to Tripoli in 1876. Louisiana Democrats later called upon President Cleveland to rescind Cuthbert's consul appointment in 1885, alleging he was a \"known murderer.\" He would go on however to have a distinguished career as a foreign diplomat, including time as the consul to Peru. Cuthbert Bullit Jones died in South America in 1905.\n\nFrancois Jones, the youngest son of Col. Jones, also left Louisiana as a result of the feud. He became a prominent citizen in Washington, D.C, but was drowned while attempting to cross a turbulent river near there in 1900.\n\nIn 2008, descendants of the family and residents of the surrounding areas gathered for a re-enactment of the events that took place in the Jones-Liddell feud.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13477068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13477068", "title": "Lapping (magic)", "text": "Lapping (magic)\n\nIn the art of conjuring, lapping refers to a set of techniques whereby a performer seated at a table can secretly dispose of an item into their lap. A common lapping technique is to sweep an item into the lap while pretending to pick it off the tabletop.\n\nThere are two issues with lapping: one must prepare the lap beforehand so that objects do not slip between the legs and retrieval of the lapped object(s).\n\nSubtle uses of lapping, such as secret switches or disposing of secret devices, enable effects that would not otherwise be possible. Stand-up magicians, such as \"table-hoppers\" at restaurants, may need to use a Topit or other device to obtain a similar effect, due to their inability to lap. The magicians who utilize the trick of lapping are able to manipulate items on a surface to the edge. From there they can move the items so that it falls in their lap without the audience noticing.\n\nThe magician Slydini was particularly noted for his lapping technique, which relied heavily on subtle misdirection.\n"}
{"id": "38841519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38841519", "title": "Lasswell's model of communication", "text": "Lasswell's model of communication\n\nLasswell's model of communication (also known as Lasswell's communication model) describes an act of communication by defining who said it, what was said, in what channel it was said, to whom it was said, and with what effect it was said. It is regarded by many communication and public relations scholars as \"one of the earliest and most influential communication models.\" The model was developed by American political scientist and communication theorist Harold Lasswell in 1948 while he was a professor at Yale Law School. In his 1948 article \"The Structure and Function of Communication in Society\", Lasswell wrote:\n[A] convenient way to describe an act of communication is to answer the following questions:\n\nThis verbal communication model has been referred to as \"a linear and Uni-directional process\", \"a one-way process\", an \"action model\", a media theory \"classic\", \"widely used segmentation of the communication process\", and \"a simple, linear, and potentially hypodermic conceptualization of communication.\"\n\nThe model organizes the \"scientific study of the process of communication\". The main focus of the model is broken down by each element of communication: who' refers to the communicator who formulates the message; 'what' is the content of message; 'channel' indicates the medium of transmission; 'whom' describes either an individual recipient or the audience of mass communication; 'effect' is the outcome of the message...\" The movement of the message travels from the communicator to the audience. Although this model represents a one-way flow of communication, the \"effect\" also refers to feedback in public relations. The model can be used in pedagogical settings to teach students major elements of a communication process and as a starting point for developing hypotheses.\n\nLasswell stated that the \"Who\" referred to \"control analysis\", the \"Says What\" referred to \"content analysis\", the \"In Which Channel\" referred to \"media analysis\", the \"To Whom\" referred to \"audience analysis\", and the \"With What Effect\" referred to \"effect analysis\".\n\n\"The Structure and Function of Communication in Society\" was reprinted in 1949, 1960, 1966, and 1971. However, the questions and the model did not change.\n\nGeorge Gerbner, the founder of the cultivation theory, expanded Lasswell's model in 1956 to focus \"attention on perception and reaction by the perceiver and the consequences of the communication\". In 1958, Richard Braddock suggested that the model be expanded to consider two additional elements that Braddock argued it ignored: \"for what purpose\" and \"under what circumstances\". Braddock's model is more applicable to cultivation theory. According to media scholar Michael Real: \"subsequent attempts to add an 'entertainment' function and an 'advertising' function fail to capture Lasswell's intent but provide the largest 'use and gratification' cited by, for example, television viewers.\"\n\nIn 1993, communication scholars Denis McQuail and Sven Windahl referred to Lasswell's model as \"perhaps the most famous single phrase in communication research.\" McQuail and Windahl also considered the model as a formula that would be transformed into a model once boxes were drawn around each element and arrows connected the elements. In 1995, Stanley Baran and Dennis Davis recognized it a verbal model of the communication process.\nIn 2008, Greenberg and Salwen acknowledged that Lasswell's model of communication has been widely adopted, but expressed: \"Although Lasswell's model draws attention to several key elements in the mass communication process, it does no more than describe general areas of study. It does not link elements together with any specificity, and there is no notion of an active process.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "56850692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56850692", "title": "List of Horrible Histories books", "text": "List of Horrible Histories books\n\nThis is a list of all the books in the \"Horrible Histories\" book series.\n\n∗Originally titled \"Even More Terrible Tudors\"\n\nThe original versions of the books each had a \"The\" interjected at the start of their titles. This was removed after 2007.\n\n∗Originally titled \"Horribly Huge Book of Awful Egyptians and Ruthless Romans\"\n\nIt includes the books: \"Savage Stone Age, Awesome Egyptians, Groovy Greeks, Rotten Romans, Cut-Throat Celts, Smashing Saxons, Vicious Vikings, Stormin Normans, Angry Aztecs, Incredible Incas, Measly Middle Ages, Slimy Stuarts, Terrible Tudors, Gorgeous Georgians, Vile Victorians, Villainous Victorians, Barmy British Empire, Frightful First World War, Woeful Second World War, Blitzed Brits.\"\n∗Previously \"Bloody Scotland\"\n\n∗∗Previously \"The USA\"\n\nPreviously \"Horrible Histories Cities\"\nSome \"Horrible Histories\" have been based around a particular city, rather than a nation or a specific time period. They also have a map when the front cover is folded out, and explain some structures in the city when the back cover is folded out. Therefore, many people consider them to be a sub-series as well. (Even though Loathsome London doesn't have these qualities, it was included into this sub-series during the republishing of the series from 2008 to 2011.\n∗Previously \"Loathsome London\"\n\n\"High Speed History\" is a \"Horrible Histories\" sub-series beginning in 2010 that features historical tales in a comic-strip format.\n"}
{"id": "3117016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3117016", "title": "List of textbooks in statistical mechanics", "text": "List of textbooks in statistical mechanics\n\nA list of notable textbooks in statistical mechanics, arranged by date.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15164250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15164250", "title": "List of works with different titles in the United Kingdom and United States", "text": "List of works with different titles in the United Kingdom and United States\n\nThis page lists works with different titles in the United Kingdom and United States. Categories of such works include co-editions of books and foreign releases of films. Unless otherwise noted, UK titles are also used in most other countries, with the exception that Canada generally uses US titles. Australia will sometimes utilize a third alternative title, but more often follows UK or US usage, these differences are included where known. Not listed are minor changes due to American and British English spelling differences; for example, the American film \"Rumor Has It...\" is titled \"Rumour Has It...\" in the UK, and, atypically, in Canada as well.\n\nLegend:\n"}
{"id": "3825213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3825213", "title": "Los Katíos National Park", "text": "Los Katíos National Park\n\nLos Katíos National Natural Park () is a protected area located in northwest Colombia which covers about . The elevation ranges between . It is a part of the Darién Gap, a densely forested area shared by Panama and Colombia, and is contiguous with the Darién National Park in Panama. The Pan-American Highway, when completed as proposed, would pass near or through Los Katíos. The park was declared a World Heritage Site in 1994 due to the extraordinary diversity of plant and animal species represented. The park contains over 25% of the bird species reported for Colombia in an area less than 1% of the total Colombian territory.\n\nThe topography of the Los Katios National Park is diverse, with low hills, forests and wet plains comprising its total area.\n\nThe two largest parts of the park are the Serranía del Darién mountains, which lie to the west, and the Atrato River floodplains in the east. The floodplains hold exceptionally fertile soil and consist of alluvial plains of two types. One consists of low-lying terraces that flood often and the other has high terraces that seldom flood. There are also low hills of up to in elevation and others that are high. Swampy marshes spread for nearly half of the park's total area. The wetlands of the Atrato floodplain are unique. Cativo, one of the indigenous species, can grow to a height of . It lends its name to a formation called 'catival', something that is found nowhere in the world except Colombia, south Central America and Jamaica.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15846026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15846026", "title": "Matthew Levitt", "text": "Matthew Levitt\n\nMatthew Levitt is a writer on Islamist terrorism. Levitt is a senior fellow and director of the Stein Program on Counterterrorism and Intelligence at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy and professorial lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies at Johns Hopkins University's Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS). From 2005 to early 2007 he was a deputy assistant secretary for intelligence and analysis at the U.S. Department of the Treasury. In that capacity, he served both as a senior official within the department's terrorism and financial intelligence branch and as deputy chief of the Office of Intelligence and Analysis. From 2001 to 2005, Levitt served the Institute as founding director of its Terrorism Research Program, which was established in the wake of the September 11 attacks. Previously, he provided tactical and strategic analytical support for counter-terrorism operations at the FBI, focusing on fundraising and logistical support networks for Middle Eastern terrorist groups. During his FBI service, Levitt participated as a team member in a number of crisis situations, including the terrorist threat surrounding the turn of the millennium and the September 11 attacks.\n\nLevitt has also lectured on international terrorism on behalf of the Departments of State, Justice, Defense, and Homeland Security, consulted for various U.S. government agencies and private industry, and testified before the Senate and House on matters relating to international terrorism. He is a term member of the Council on Foreign Relations, a member of the international advisory board for both the Institute for Counter-terrorism in Israel and the International Centre for Political Violence & Terrorism Research in Singapore, and a CTC fellow with the Combating Terrorism Center (CTC) at the U.S. Military Academy (West Point).\n\nHe received his B.A. from Yeshiva University and his M.A. and Ph.D. from The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. He was a graduate research fellow at Harvard Law School's Program on Negotiation, and has taught at Johns Hopkins University. He attended high school at the Maimonides School.\n\nLevitt has written for the \"Los Angeles Times\", and testified at the trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.\n\n"}
{"id": "174904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174904", "title": "Mayapan", "text": "Mayapan\n\nMayapan (Màayapáan in Modern Maya), (in Spanish Mayapán), (pronounced mī-ä-ˈpän) is a Pre-Columbian Maya site a couple of kilometers south of the town of Telchaquillo in Municipality of Tecoh, approximately 40 km south-east of Mérida and 100 km west of Chichen Itza; in the state of Yucatán, Mexico. Mayapan was the political and cultural capital of the Maya in the Yucatán Peninsula during the Late Post-Classic period from the 1220s until the 1440s. Estimates of the total city population are 15,000–17,000 persons, and the site has more than 4,000 structures within the city walls, and additional dwellings outside.\n\nThe site has been professionally surveyed and excavated by archeological teams, beginning in 1939; five years of work was done by a team in the 1950s, and additional studies were done in the 1990s. Since 2000, a collaborative Mexican-United States team has been conducting excavations and recovery at the site, which continue.\n\nMayapan is 4.2 square kilometers (about 1.6 square miles) and has over 4000 structures, most of them residences, packed into this compound within the city walls. Built-up areas extend a half kilometer beyond the city walls in all directions. The stone perimeter wall has twelve gates, including seven major gates with vaulted entrances. The wall is 9.1 km (about 5.65 miles) long and is roughly ovate with a pointed northeast corner.\n\nThe ceremonial center of the site is located in Square Q of the city's grid in the center of the wider western half of the walled enclosure. The ceremonial center has a tightly packed cluster of temples, colonnaded halls, oratories, shrines, sanctuaries, altars, and platforms (for oration, dancing, or stela display). A.L. Smith, an archeologist with the Carnegie Institute, estimated 10–12,000 people lived within the walled city.\n\nAccording to Dr. Bradley Russell's survey outside the city walls, there were numerous additional dwellings and he revised the total population estimate to between 15,000–17,000 people. His survey results are posted online at www.mayapanperiphery.net. People living outside of the city wall engaged in agriculture, animal-raising, and specialized activities such as lime production. Russell also found a colonnaded hall outside the city wall, revealing much is still to be discovered regarding the complexity of this urban landscape.\n\nThe Temple of Kukulcan, a large pyramid also known as the Castillo, is the main temple in Mayapan. It is located immediately to the east of the Cenote Ch'en Mul, which has caves radiating from it. In form, the Temple of Kukulcan (Structure Q-162 on the site map) is a radial four-staircase temple with nine terraces; it is generally similar to the Temple of Kukulcan at the earlier site of Chichen Itza. However, the Mayapan temple appears to be an inferior imitation of the one at Chichen Itza, and the city's buildings in general are not constructed as well as those in other Mayan cities. For example, most or all of the vaulted roofs in Mayapan have collapsed, while many of the better-built buildings at Chichen Itza remain intact. Other major temples in the ceremonial center include three round ones, which are unusual for the Maya area and are also linked to the deity Kukulkan/Quetzalcoatl in his wind god (Ehecatl) aspect. Unlike Chichen Itza, Mayapan has no ballcourts.\n\nThe extensive residential zones of the site are composed of dwellings and ancillary domestic structures, with those around the ceremonial district larger and of higher quality and those toward the fringes being generally poorer. The houses are often arranged in small patio groups surrounding small courtyards. Houses were built haphazardly without organized streets. Lanes wind among the residences and walls. The residential areas of the site contain many cenotes, perhaps as many as 40. Settlement was the most dense in the southwestern part of the city where cenotes are more numerous.\n\nThe ethnohistorical sources – such as Diego de Landa's \"Relacion de las Cosas de Yucatan\", compiled from native sources in the 16th century – recount that the site was founded by Kukulcan (the Mayan name of Quetzalcoatl, the Toltec king, culture hero, and demigod) after the fall of Chichen Itza. He convened the lords of the region, who agreed to found a new capital at Mayapan. The lords divided the towns of Yucatán among them, and chose the chief of the Cocom family as their leader.\n\nThe ethnohistorical sources recount multiple different histories of the rise and fall of Mayapan (Roys 1962). These histories are often confusing, chronologically implausible, and difficult to reconcile. For example, some sources say that the Maya revolted in 1221 against the Maya-Toltec lords of Chichen Itza. After a short civil war, the lords of various powerful cities and families met to restore a central government to Yucatán. They decided to build a new capital city near the town of Telchaquillo, hometown of Hunac Ceel, the general who defeated the rulers of Chichen Itza. The new city was built within a defensive wall and named \"Mayapan\", meaning \"Standard of the Maya people\".\n\nThe chief of the Cocom family, a rich and ancient lineage that had taken part in the revolt against Chichen, was chosen to be king, and all the other noble families and regional lords were to send members of their families to Mayapan to play parts in the government (and perhaps act as hostages for the good behavior of the subsidiary cities). Mexican mercenaries from Tabasco were also employed to keep order and maintain power. Another family, the Xiu, may have been living in the Mayapan area prior to the arrival of the Cocom; the Xiu claim to be a part of the lineage from Uxmal. This arrangement lasted for over 200 years. (An alternative account is given in a Maya chronicle from the Colonial era, claiming that Mayapan was contemporary with Chichen Itza and Uxmal and allied with those cities, but archeological evidence shows this version to be less likely.)\n\nMayapan became the primary city in a group of allies that included much of the northern Yucatán, and trade partners that extended directly to Honduras, Belize, and the Caribbean island of Cozumel, and indirectly to Mexico. Though Mayapan was ruled by a council, the \"Jalach winik\" and the \"aj k’in\" (the highest ruler, and the high priest) dominated the political sphere. Below the two primary officials were many other officials with varying responsibilities. The range of classes went from the nobility, down to slaves, with intermediary classes in between. The social climate of Mayapan was made complicated by the antagonistic relationship between the factions of nobles, which were often arranged by kinship (Pugh 2009; Milbrath 2003). In 1441, Ah Xupan of the powerful noble family of Xiu became resentful of the political machinations of the Cocom rulers and organized a revolt. As a result, all of the Cocom family, except one who was away in Honduras conducting trade, were killed, Mayapan was sacked, burned, and abandoned, all the larger cities went into decline, and Yucatán devolved into warring city-states.\n\nArchaeological evidence indicates that at least the ceremonial center was burned at the end of the occupation. Excavation has revealed burnt roof beams in several of the major buildings in the site center.\n\nIn 1841 John L. Stephens was the first to document parts of the Mayapan site with two important illustrations. The first was of the Q-152 round temple, and the second was of the Pyramid of Kukulkan. He was the first in a long string of explorers who drew the ruins of Mayapan. The first large-scale archeological site surveys were not conducted until 1938 by R.T. Patton. These surveys mapped the main plaza group and the city wall, and were the basis of later maps (Russell 2008).\n\nIn the 1950s, archaeologists of the Carnegie Institution, including A. L. Smith, Robert Smith, Tatiana Proskouriakoff, Edwin Shook, Karl Ruppert and J. Eric Thompson conducted five years of intensive archeological investigations at Mayapan. Their work was published in a mimeographed series of \"Current Reports\". The \"Current Reports\" have recently been republished in their entirety by the University of Colorado Press (John Weeks 2009). The final report was published by the Carnegie Institution as \"Mayapan, Yucatan, Mexico\", by H. E. D. Pollock, Ralph L. Roys, A. L. Smith, and Tatiana Proskouriakoff (1962, Publication 619). Robert Smith published a two-volume monograph on \"The Pottery of Mayapan\" in 1971 (Papers of the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology 66, Harvard University).\n\nIn the early 1990s, Clifford T. Brown of Tulane University carried out excavations in the residential zones of Mayapan as part of his doctoral dissertation research. Several years later, the National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) of Mexico began extensive architectural excavations and consolidation under the direction of archaeologist Carlos Peraza Lope. This work continues to the present. It has resulted in the discovery of many important artifacts, murals, stuccoes, and architectural elements.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2009, further investigations were begun at the site by a team under the direction of Dr. Marilyn Masson from the State University New York at Albany, Carlos Peraza Lope of INAH, and Timothy S. Hare of Morehead State University. This \"Economic Foundations of Mayapan\" (PEMY) Project performed mapping, surface survey and collection, test-pitting, and horizontal excavation across the city. Major findings of this project include the identification of diverse occupational specialization among the city's commoners, who worked as craftsmen, conscripted military personnel, farmers, and domestic servants. Great variation is now recognized in the types of work performed by commoners of different households and their degrees of affluence. This project has also identified a probable major market plaza in Square K (between the site center and major north gate D); Richard Terry, Bruce Dahlin, and Daniel Bair have analyzed soil samples from this location to test the function of this locality. In 2008 and 2009, the PEMY project focused excavations on an outlying ceremonial group by the far eastern city gate (Gate H), known as \"Itzmal Ch'en,\" as part of its study of the economic and social links between governing elites and distant neighborhoods within the city.\n\n\n\n\n\nMilpa, or mixed, fields may have been cultivated when Mayapan was inhabited. There is evidence that the area around Mayapan was regularly used for slash-and-burn agriculture. Cenotes and underground limestone canals serve as the only source of freshwater in this area, making them essential to support agriculture. Researchers have suggested that Mayapan was an import/export center, and that they often traded luxury goods, such as cotton, salt, and honey, for products of obsidian and metal, which they would have forged. (Paris 2008) (Melbrath & Peraza 2003:29). Today farmers use mixed fields, called milpa fields, to cultivate maize, beans, squash, watermelons, mangoes, papayas and other crops. Also, citrus fruit such as oranges and limes are often grown within the domestic house groups of the local residents (Russell 2008:16).\n\nFaunal remains indicate that the local population used varying methods of animal acquisition. A study done by M.A. Masson and C. Peraza Lope in 2008 looked at faunal remains from two different middens, one located in the monumental center by some houses, and the other is located in the domestic area outside the monumental compound. The largest samples of recognized remains within the monumental center were from: white-tailed deer (23%), dog (4.4%), turkey (12.9%), and iguana (10.2%). The combined contributions of fish make up around 1.2% of the samples. These percentages as well as the ones that will follow for the settlement zone are based on recognized remains. Primary animals may have made up larger portions of the diet but their remains are too difficult to recognize.\n\nIn the settlement zone, researchers found: white-tailed deer (8.4%), dog (1.4%), turkey (5.3%), iguana (14.5%), and fish (3.6%). Both turtle and rabbit remains were found in both sites, but they were consumed in small amounts (less than 1.5%). While excavating, the researchers noted many fish skeletons, but few fish heads. They concluded that the fish were being traded into Mayapan, and not collected near the site. If the fish had been prepared at the site, the heads would have been common refuse. Within the ceremonial center, numerous deer heads and teeth were found among the remains.(M.A. Masson, C. Peraza Lope 2008).\n\nMayapan was a major capital in the Yucatán, and there is extensive evidence that it had far-reaching trade routes, as seen in architecture and artifacts of other settlements in the region. A wide variety of goods were traded, including maize, honey, salt, fish, game, cloth, and birds.\n\nZacpeten on Lake Salpeten – Incense burners found at this site are nearly identical to those found at Mayapan. The temple assemblages at Zacpeten are very similar to those at Mayapan. Topoxte in Lake Yaxha, Peten also shares similarities of architecture and artifacts of effigy censers. Topoxte architectural remains show a similar stone carving style to Mayapan. Also, tiny “dwarf” shrines found at this site were very similar to shrines found at Mayapan. The two sites appear to have been abandoned around the same time; which may suggest a connection between their governments.\n\nArchitectural and artifact connections are seen between Mayapan and the Utatlan in highland Guatemala. Examples are similar temple assemblages, the presence of skull imagery and squatting figures, extensive and lavish use of stucco combined with crude masonry, and effigy figure censers.\n\nThis region also shows apparent influence of Mayapan, in similar temple assemblages, similarities in architecture, effigy censers at some sites, and parallels between architectural decoration at Mayapan and some east coast sites. The east coast sites exported products such as cotton, salt, and honey from the Yucatán. Sites in Guatemala traded back cacao. El Chayal in Guatemala was the only source of the obsidian found at Mayapan.\n\nThe presence of Matillas Fine Orange ceramics in Mayapan suggests trade with Tabasco. This area may have mediated trade between Mayapan and the rest of Central Mexico. Sculptures and murals at Mayapan suggest that there was contact between Mayapan and the rising Aztec empire. Some Mayapan figures showed details of Aztec dress, and what appears to be an Aztec deity is carved on an altar in Mayapan.\n\nThis evidence suggests a: “circum-Yucatecan trade route that linked Mayapan to Peten, northern Belize, and east-coast sites in the Late Postclassic period.” (Melbrath & Peraza Lope 2003:24–31)\n\n\n\nDirectionality may have played a role in the representation of inequality among the powerful factions of Mayapan. East and west were of primary importance because it represented the track of the sun through the sky. The east was associated with: life, males, and heat; whereas the west was associated with: death, females, and cold. This has led many sources to believe that the Itza and the Xiw may have been associated with east and west. There was very little evidence for obvious separation of residence between classes. This is mostly due to the residential center of Mayapan being located around the concentration of the water filled cenotes. Most residences are tandem structures made of several building within a separating wall. Many of these tandem structures include multiple residential buildings; the size of these residential buildings, relative to each other, suggests that some of them were for slaves. The integration of classes extends to the outer edges of the residential areas probably due to the convenience of being close to the agricultural fields. Some sources indicate that the analysis of oratarios or god-houses (large house-like shrines) show boundaries that were known to the people of Mayapan. This is shown in relation to the analysis of household oratarios and those oriented around the ceremonial center of Mayapan. Unfortunately there is very little skeletal evidence found in this region because of the composition of the soil. The goods found in different house structures do suggest different levels of social status, mainly in regard to the specialization of housing structures. There are at least two examples of obsidian workshops in Mayapan. The strongest evidence for inequality in Mayapan is found in the presence of deep shafts full of sacrificial victims, this suggests that the noble class had enough power to condemn some people to death.\n\nThe site of Mayapan was abandoned sometime in the 15th century. There has been some dispute over when the actual abandonment took place. However, written records state that the site was abandoned in A.D. 1441. There appear to be several contributing factors to the abandonment of Mayapan. Around A.D. 1420 a riot was started by the Xius against the Cocom which culminated in the death of nearly all (if not in fact all) of the Cocom lineage. Pestilence may have been involved in the subsequent abandonment of the site by the remaining Xiu inhabitants. There were several sources of evidence to support this interpretation. Evidence of burned wood was found inside of structure Y-45a as well as burned roofing material on many of the other structures that was dated to around the time of the collapse in K’atun 8 Ahua (roughly A.D. 1441–1461). A mass grave in the main plaza, and bodies in a burial shaft covered in ash were dated to around the collapse and showed signs of violence, some of the bodies still had large flint knives in their chests or pelvises, suggesting ritualized sacrifice. Smashed vessels litter the floors of the Y-45a complex that date to around A.D. 1270–1400, prior to the documented collapse of Mayapan. A vessel bearing the glyph K’atun 8 Ahua was found on the floor of this complex. From this they have posited that the complex was abandoned finally when the city fell (Lope 2006; Milbrath 2003). After A.D. 1461 there is little evidence of altars and burial cists being constructed after 1461, suggesting that the site had been abandoned by this point (Lope 2006). Very little evidence has been found to support later usage of Mayapan. Copal from an altar was found in the Templo Redondo compound that may suggest later pilgrimages to the Castillo de Kukulkan. However, these samples date to the industrial era and may not be valid, so any assumptions based on this evidence would also not be valid (Lope 2006:168).\n\n(2006). \"The chronology of Mayapán: new radiocarbon evidence\", in \"Ancient Mesoamerica\" 17(2):153–175.\n\n2007 Kukulkan/Quetzalcoat, Death God, and Creation Mythology of Burial Shaft Temples at Mayapan. Mexicon 29:77–85.\n\n2003b Mayapán’s Scribe: A Link with Classic Maya Artists. Mexicon XXV:120–123.\n\n2009 Survival and revival of Terminal Classic traditions at Postclassic Mayapán Latin American antiquity: a journal of the Society for American Archaeology 20(4):581–606.\n\n2010 Religious Imagery in Mayapan’s Murals. The PARI Journal X:1–10.\n\n2008 Metallurgy, Mayapan and the Postclassic World System. Ancient Mesoamerica 19:43–66.\n\n1998 Mayapán: Ciudad-capital del Postclasico. Arqueología Mexicana :48-53.\n\n2001 Flood Reptiles, Serpent Temples and the Quadripartite Universe: The Imajo Mundi of Late Postclassic Mayapán. Ancient Mesoamerica 12:247-258.\n\n2003 A cluster and spatial analysis of ceremonial architecture at Late Postclassic Mayapán Journal of Archaeological Science 30(8):941-953.\n\n2001 The People of the Patio: Ethnohistoric Evidence of Yucatec Maya Royal Courts. In Royal Courts of the Maya, Volume II, edited by Takeshi Inomata y Stephen D. Houston, pp. 335–390. Westview Press, Boulder.\n\n2001 Post-Classic and Terminal Classic Courts of the Northern Maya Lowlands. En Royal Courts of the Maya, Volume Two: Data and Case Studies, edited by Takeshi Inomata and Stephen D. Houston, pp. 266–307. Westview Press, Boulder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "340197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340197", "title": "Medellín", "text": "Medellín\n\nMedellín ( ; ), officially the Municipality of Medellín (), is the second-largest city in Colombia and the capital of the department of Antioquia. It is located in the Aburrá Valley, a central region of the Andes Mountains in South America. According to the National Administrative Department of Statistics, the city has an estimated population of 2.5 million . With its surrounding area that includes nine other cities, the metropolitan area of Medellín is the second-largest urban agglomeration in Colombia in terms of population and economy, with more than 3.7 million people.\n\nIn 1616 the Spaniard Francisco Herrera Campuzano erected a small indigenous village (\"poblado\") known as \"Saint Lawrence of Aburrá\" (\"San Lorenzo de Aburrá\"), located in the present-day El Poblado commune. On 2 November 1675, the queen consort Mariana of Austria founded the \"Town of Our Lady of Candelaria of Medellín\" (\"Villa de Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria de Medellín\") in the Aná region, which today corresponds to the center of the city (east-central zone) and first describes the region as \"Medellín\". In 1826, the city was named the capital of the Department of Antioquia by the National Congress of the nascent Republic of Gran Colombia, comprised by present-day Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador and Panama. After Colombia won its independence from Spain, Medellín became the capital of the Federal State of Antioquia until 1888, with the proclamation of the Colombian Constitution of 1886. During the 19th century, Medellín was a dynamic commercial center, first exporting gold, then producing and exporting coffee.\n\nAt the beginning of the 21st century the city regained industrial dynamism, with the construction of the Medellín Metro commuter rail, liberalized development policies, improved security and improved education. Researchers at the Overseas Development Institute have lauded the city as a pioneer of a post-Washington consensus \"local development state\" model of economic development. The city is promoted internationally as a tourist destination and is considered a global city type \"Gamma -\" by GaWC.\n\nThe Medellín Metropolitan Area produces 67% of the Department of Antioquia's GDP and 11% of the economy of Colombia. Medellín is important to the region for its universities, academies, commerce, industry, science, health services, flower-growing and festivals.\n\nIn February 2013, the Urban Land Institute chose Medellín as the most innovative city in the world due to its recent advances in politics, education and social development. In the same year, Medellín was announced as the preferred corporate business destination in South America, and won the Verónica Rudge Urbanism Award conferred by Harvard University to the Urban Development Enterprise, mainly due to the North-Western Integral Development Project in the city. In September 2013, the United Nations ratified Colombia's petition to host UN-Habitat's 7th World Urban Forum in Medellín, from April 5–11, 2014.\n\nThe most recent survey on the global status of the Smart Cities by Indra Sistemas catalogs Medellín as one of the best cities to live in South America, sharing first place with Santiago de Chile, and alongside Barcelona and Lisbon in Europe. Medellín won the Lee Kuan Yew World City Prize 2016. The award seeks to recognize and celebrate efforts in furthering innovation in urban solutions and sustainable urban development.\n\nThe valley and its Spanish settlement have gone by several names over the years, including \"Aburrá de los Yamesíes\", \"Valley of Saint Bartholomew\", \"Saint Lawrence of Aburrá\", \"Saint Lawrence of Aná\", \"Villa de la Candelaria de Medellín\", and finally \"Medellín\".\n\nThe name \"Medellín\" comes from Medellín, Spain, a small village in the Badajoz province of Extremadura. The village is known for being the birthplace of Hernán Cortés. The Spanish Medellín, in turn, was originally called \"Metellinum\" and was named after the Roman General Quintus Caecilius Metellus Pius in 75 BC who founded the village as a military base.\n\nSome of the Conquistadors, such as Gaspar de Rodas, the first governor of Antioquia, came from the region of Badajoz. Count Pedro Portocarrero y Luna, President of the Council for the West Indies (\"Consejo de Indias\"), asked the Spanish monarchy to give the name of his town, Medellín in Extremadura, to the new settlement in America. His request was accepted on November 22, 1674, when the Regent Mariana of Austria proclaimed the city's name to be \"Villa de Nuestra Señora de Medellín\". Miguel Aguinaga y Mendiogoitia, Governor, made the name official on November 2, 1675. The Crown granted a coat of arms to the city on June 24, 1676.\n\nIn August 1541, Marshal Jorge Robledo was in the place known today as Heliconia when he saw in the distance what he thought was a valley. He sent Jerónimo Luis Tejelo to explore the territory, and during the night of August 23 Tejelo reached the plain of what is now Aburrá Valley. The Spaniards gave it the name of \"Valley of Saint Bartholomew\", but this was soon changed for the native name \"Aburrá\", meaning \"Painters\", due to the textile decorations of the natives.\n\nIn 1574, Gaspar de Rodas asked the Antioquia's Cabildo for of land to establish herds and a ranch in the valley. The Cabildo granted him of land.\n\nIn 1616, the colonial visitor Francisco de Herrera y Campuzano founded a settlement with 80 Amerindians, naming it \"Poblado de San Lorenzo\", today \"El Poblado\". In 1646 a colonial law ordered the separation of Amerindians from mestizos and mulattos, so the colonial administration began the construction of a new town in Aná, today Berrío Park, where the church of \"Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria de Aná\" (\"Our Lady of Candelaria of Aná\") was built. Three years later, the Spaniards started the construction of the Basilica of Our Lady of Candelaria, which was rebuilt at the end of the 18th century.\n\nAfter 1574, with Gaspar de Rodas settled in the valley, population started to grow. According to the church records of the San Lorenzo Church, six couples married between 1646 and 1650, and 41 between 1671 and 1675. Gold mines were developed northeast of Antioquia, thus they needed food supply from nearby agriculture. The Aburrá Valley was in a strategic position between the gold mines and the first provincial capital of Antioquia, Santa Fe de Antioquia.\n\nThe provincial capital, Santa Fe, started to lose importance and gradually became poor, as trade and prominent personalities of the region came to the Aburrá Valley, where rich families started to buy land. Soon, the first settlers asked for the creation of a Cabildo (council) in the valley, thus getting a separate government from Santa Fe. The Santa Fe government fought this, but Mariana of Austria signed the edict creating the Cabildo on November 22, 1674. The governor Miguel de Aguinaga proclaimed the royal edict on 2 November 1675. The new city was given the title of \"Villa de Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria\" It is the second largest city in Colombia .\n\nBefore the creation of the town, the inhabitants were scattered throughout the valley, with only a few families concentrated at the confluence of the Aná (today called the Santa Elena) and the Medellín rivers; others lived in El Poblado San Lorenzo. After the royal edict, the settlers chose the Aná site as the heart of the future city, with the Candelaria Church at its center. \nTheir first buildings were simple, with thatched roofs. The houses of the most important people were two stories tall, and the church and the Cabildo were unimpressive. It was only during the 18th century that the church was improved. Only one story, the Cabildo was located at the western part of the plaza. It had a thatched roof until 1742, when tiles were put on. In 1682, traders and foreigners started the construction of the Veracruz Hermitage, which was consecrated as a church by the Bishop of Popayán in 1712.\n\nIn 1675, the first census during colonial times was taken: there were 3,000 people and 280 families. Another census was not taken until the colonial Visitador (royal inspector) Antonio Mon y Velarde ordered one between 1786 and 1787: there were then 14,507 people and 241 families. In 1808, two years before Colombia won independence, the city had 15,347 people and 360 families.\n\nIn 1803, the Royal College of the Franciscans was founded in the Central Plaza, which is Berrío Park today, with the initial departments of Grammar, Philosophy and Theology. Soon after, the college moved to a new building in the small San Ignacio square. In 1821 it was renamed Colegio de Antioquia, and it became the University of Antioquia in 1901. The University also had the first vocational training school, the first cultural radio station in Latin America, and the first regional botanical garden.\n\nIn the first half of the twentieth century, the population of Medellín increased sixfold, from 59,815 inhabitants in 1905 to 358,189 in 1951. The Thousand Days War (1899–1902) stopped the industrial development of the city, although the civil war did not affect the region directly. Under reforms by President Rafael Reyes after the conflict, the city continued its industrial development and founded a Chamber of commerce. The Chamber developed a regional transport project that connected Medellín to other Colombian regions and other nations.\n\nDespite the importance of gold production in the early development of Medellín, the export of coffee contributed the most impetus in the 20th century for the city's growth. Trade grew to international dimensions as the main export of Colombia became coffee. The industrial and commercial dynamism of Medellín also created a caste of traders and entrepreneurs, who founded the first nationwide industries in Colombia.\n\nColtejer is one of the most important textile companies in Colombia. It was founded in Medellín by Alejandro Echavarría on October 22, 1907. Its headquarters, the Coltejer Building, is the tallest skyscraper in Medellín and the fourth tallest building in Colombia.\n\nThe discovery of coal in Amagá, a few kilometers south of the Aburrá Valley, and the building of hydroelectric plants provided the new industries with energy, and this allowed the creation of many smaller companies. The Antioquia Railway (built in 1875) conquered the difficult geography of one of the most mountainous regions of South America, notably with the La Quiebra Tunnel, which connected the industrial center to the Magdalena River, the most major navigable river in Colombia. In 1932 Medellín also built its first airport, the Enrique Olaya Herrera Airport.\n\nThe study by Charles H. Savage on industrial production in Antioquia between 1960 and 1972 showed how important Medellín industries became to Colombia and South America. He studied social change produced by the introduction of new technology. Savage looked at three factories in Antioquia: two potteries in Santuario and La Blanca, and a tailoring factory in Medellín. Savage studied the production of the Antioquian factories, and the relationship between the workers and their employers, an industrial efficiency which he called the \"Culture of Work\". His conclusions were published by his colleague George F. Lombardi as \"Sons of the Machine\" (1988).\n\nArts and literature have been an important social element in Medellín. The University of Antioquia, the National University of Colombia with its Medellín branch, and the Pontifical Bolivarian University have historically been the academic centers of the city and are responsible for the formation of an intellectual class in the region.\n\nDuring the first part of the 20th century the city was part of the literary transition from romanticism to the modern art and literary movements of the new century. The writer Tomás Carrasquilla (1858–1940) focused on the people of his native Antioquia, portraying their daily lives and customs. The writer and philosopher Fernando González from Envigado (in the metropolitan area of Medellín), the cartoonist Ricardo Rendón and the poet León de Greiff were some of the founders of \"Los Panidas\", a Medellín literary movement. Other featured poets and writers were Porfirio Barba-Jacob and Efe Gómez. In painting, the most famous were Eladio Vélez and Pedro Nel Gómez. Carlos Vieco Ortiz was a popular composer and musician. Medellín became the headquarters of record labels like Sonolux, Ondina and Silver.\n\nMedellín clubs, many of them dating to the end of the 19th century became a center for intellectual and industrialist movements, like Club Union (founded in 1894) and Club Campestre (founded in 1924). In 1909 the Circo España was created, and Bolívar Theater, in 1919. The Junín Theater was demolished to build the Coltejer Tower. Cine Colombia, the first movie distributor of the country, was founded in Medellín in 1927.\n\nColombia entered a new era of political instability with the murder of presidential candidate Jorge Eliecer Gaitán in Bogotá in 1948. Political violence spread in the rural areas of Colombia, and farmers fled to the cities. The Valley slopes became overpopulated with slums.\n\nAs the population of Medellín grew quickly during the 1950s, industrialists, traders and local government created the \"Medellín Master Plan\" (MMP) (\"Plan Piloto\"), a plan for the expansion of the city into the Aburrá Valley that would lead to the creation of the first metropolitan area in Colombia. Paul Lester Wiener and José Luis Sert were the architects who led the project. Among the main features of the MMP were the canalization of the Medellín River, the control of new settlements on valley slopes, the creation of an industrial zone in the Guayabal District, the planning of the city to be in harmony with the river, the construction of a city stadium, and an administrative center in La Alpujarra.\n\nIn 1951 the city had 358,189 inhabitants, but 22 years later, in 1973, the population had tripled to 1,071,252. The population explosion had several consequences for the MMP. The urban limits of the city grew to areas that were not contemplated in the MMP, so that Medellín now reached the urban areas of other cities of the Aburrá Valley, like Envigado, Bello and Itagüí; the new Medellín settlers were poor families without enough credit to buy their own homes, so several neighborhoods were built beyond the MMP; several old downtown buildings were demolished to construct tall towers, offices, and avenues. The beautiful and traditional Junin Theatre along the Santa Elena was demolished to build the Coltejer Tower. The huge migration into Medellín provided workers for the expansion of textile factories, being modernized in this period, but it also created new problems for the city: higher unemployment, lack of services for poor areas, urban violence in several districts, and collapse of any hope of a transport system. \n\nThe position of Medellín as the second industrial city in Colombia has been a main factor in overcoming its crisis of the 1980s and 1990s. The Medellín Metro, a massive urban transport service, became the pride of the city, and so far the only sign of the Medellín Master Plan of the 1950s. The construction of the Plaza Mayor of Medellín, an international center for congresses and expositions, was designed to showcase the globalized economy of Colombia to the world. \n\nSocial exclusion has eased due to the development of a transport infrastructure; the Metro, a new system of public buses, is being planned with the so-called \"Metroplus\", already inaugurated, and gondolas called “MetroCable” in the poorest barrio communities. Additionally, an electric escalator 1,260 feet long was inaugurated on December 26, 2011 in Comuna 13, one of Medellín's poorest neighborhoods, making it one of the first of its kind in the world. Today's Medellín includes spaces for art, poetry, drama, the construction of public libraries, the foundation of new ecological parks, and the inclusion of people of the city in its development.\n\nThe city administration has pursued policies that have been lauded by researchers at the Overseas Development Institute as helping pioneer a post-Washington consensus 'local development state' model of economic development, see here.\n\nIn 2012, Medellín was among 200 cities around the world, including New York and Tel Aviv, nominated for Most Innovative City of the Year due to a great advancement in public transportation, with more than 500,000 residents and visitors using its Metro train system each day; a public bike-share program; new facilities and landmarks, including the España Library and a cultural center in Moravia; a large outdoor escalator the size of a 28-story building, enabling residents of the city’s elevated Comuna 13 neighborhood to safely ride down the steep hillside; and a Metro system which reduces Medellín’s CO2 emissions by 175,000 tons each year. Medellín has the biggest research-dedicated building in Colombia called University Research Building () a facility that concentrates the top research groups of the University of Antioquia.\n\nMedellín has 16 \"comunas\" (districts), 5 \"corregimientos\" (townships), and 271 \"barrios\" (neighborhoods).\nThe metropolitan area of Medellín lies within the Aburrá valley at an elevation of above sea level and is bisected by the Medellín River (also called Porce), which flows northward. North of the valley are the towns of Bello, Copacabana, Girardota and Barbosa. To the south of the valley lie Itagüí, Envigado, Sabaneta, La Estrella and Caldas.\n\nThe weather in Medellín is warm year-round with few temperature extremes. As a municipality, Medellín has an area of . Medellín features a tropical rainforest climate (\"Af\"), albeit a noticeably cooler version of this climate that borders closely on a subtropical highland climate (\"Cfb\") and also on a tropical monsoon climate (\"Am\"). Because Medellín is located at above sea level, its climate is not as hot as other cities located at the same latitude near the equator. Because of its altitude above sea level and privileged location in the Andes Range, Medellín's weather at times is more characteristic of a humid subtropical climate than that of a tropical climate. The city's average annual temperature is , and because of its proximity to the equator, its temperature is constant year round, with minimal temperature variations. Temperatures range from . Because of the pleasant springlike climate all year, Medellín is known as \"La Ciudad de la Eterna Primavera\" or \"City of the Eternal Spring\". However, as the city is located in a valley and many of its districts are on slopes, temperatures can be slightly cooler on the surrounding mountains.\n\nMedellín is a city governed by a republican democratic system as stated in the Colombian Constitution of 1991, with decentralized government. Administration is shared by the Mayor of Medellín and the Municipal Council, both elected by popular vote.\n\nThe municipality is made up of official departments (\"secretarías\") including departments for social mobility, urban culture, social development, education, evaluation and control, government, resources, public works, administrative services, environment, women, and transportation. There are also many departments with a certain autonomy: the Olaya Herrera Airport, the Public Library (\"Biblioteca Pública Piloto\"), the College of Antioquia (\"Colegio Mayor\"), the Urban Development Enterprise (EDU), the Public Service Enterprise (EEPPM), the Sport and Recreation Institute (INDER), the General Enterprises of Medellín (EEVVM), the Medellín Bus stations, the General Hospital of Medellín, the health service enterprise \"Metrosalud\", the Metropolitan Institute of Technology (ITM), the Metro de Medellín, the Department for the Administration of the Medellín parks (Metroparques) and Metroseguridad.\n\nThe municipality is divided into six zones: The urban zone, which is subdivided into 16 \"comunas\" (communes). The communues are further divided into 249 statistical neighborhoods. The remaining zones outside the urban zones comprise five \"corregimientos\" (townships).\n\nFurther, the municipality belongs to the Medellín Metropolitan Area, which is made up of ten neighboring municipalities.\n\nThe government of the city of Medellín is divided into executive and legislative branches. The mayor of the city (Alcalde) is publicly elected for a term of four years (just like the president and the governor of any other department in Colombia).\n\nLow tax rates mean Medellín's city administration's social and economic development policies have been funded by the city's ownership of the main energy supplier, Empresas Publicas de Medellín (EPM); 30% of its profits go directly to the city's administrative budget. In addition to infrastructure projects, the city administration has developed a program of cash grants called 'the Medellín Solidaria' programme that are very similar to Brazil's highly successful Bolsa Familia and also the city runs the Cultura E programme.\n\nAccording to the city administration, Medellín Solidaria represents an improvement on Colombia's national programme, 'Familias en Accion' (Families in Action). The city administration is further responsible for coordinating more than 100 other social programmes. Under the Cultura E programme, the city administration has established a network of 14 publicly funded business support centres known as CEDEZO, Centros de Desarrollo Empresarial Zonal). The CEDEZOs are found in the poorest areas of Medellín and support the poor in developing business by providing free-of-charge business support services and technical advice.\n\nAlso, as part of Cultura E, there is Banco de las Oportunidades that provides microloans (up to $2,500 at a cheap interest rates 0.91% monthly). This has helped create more equal opportunities for all and overcome the barriers to entry to business for poor entrepreneurs with good ideas, but lacking capital, skills and connections. It has also helped develop the local economy with new micro-enterprises.\n\nHowever, several mayoral candidates for the October 2011 elections have argued the Banco de las Oportunidades's interest rates are too high, loan maturity is too short and it should have grace periods. They therefore suggest a new small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) development bank to complement the Banco de las Oportunidades.\n\nMedellín was once known as the most dangerous city in the world, a result of an urban war set off by the drug cartels at the end of the 1980s. As the home of the Medellín Cartel funded by Pablo Escobar, the city was victim of the terror caused by the war between the organization headed by Escobar, and competing organizations such as \"El Cartel del Valle\". However, after the death of Escobar, crime rates in the city have decreased dramatically.\n\nThroughout the rest of the 1990s crime rates remained relatively high, although gradually declining from the worst years. In October 2002, President Álvaro Uribe ordered the military to carry out \"Operation Orion\", the objective of which was to disband the urban militias of the FARC and the AUC. Between 2003 and 2006 the demobilization of the remaining urban militias of the AUC was completed, with more than 3,000 armed men giving up their weapons.\n\nNonetheless after the disbanding of the main paramilitary groups, many members of such organizations have been known to have reorganized into criminal bands known commonly as Aguilas Negras (\"Black Eagles\"). These groups have gained notoriety in Medellín for calling upon curfews for the underage population, and have been known to distribute fliers announcing the social cleansing of prostitutes, drug addicts, and alcoholics. The extradition of paramilitary leader Don Berna appears to have sparked a crime wave with a sharp increase in killings.\n\nAs home of the now defunct Medellín Cartel, the city was once known as the most violent city in the world. However, its homicide rate has decreased by 95% and extreme poverty by 66%, thanks in part to a string of innovative mayors who laid out plans to integrate the poorest and most violent hillside neighborhoods into the city center in the valley below. Medellín is now considered safer than the US cities of Baltimore, St. Louis, Detroit and New Orleans, which appear in the CCSPJP's top 50 list.\n\nThere is a significant disparity in crime rates by neighborhoods, with virtually no homicides in El Poblado to areas with open gunfights in the outskirts. Generally, crime rates increase the further the neighborhood is from the center. From 2010 and 2011, homicides have declined as with crime in general, but there remains a high crime rate in the poorest communities.\n\n3.2 percent of street addresses account for 97 percent of homicides. More than half of the violent deaths are attributed to clashes between criminal gangs in certain parts of the city. In 1991 there were 7,273 murders at a rate of 266 per 100,000 people; in 2017 Medellín suffered 577 murders at a rate of 23 per 100,000 inhabitants. In the city there are more than 1,100 security cameras and more than 7,000 policemen.\n\nMedellín is one of Colombia's economic centers. Its economy is led by a powerful group of people from the private sector known as the Grupo Empresarial Antioqueño (Antioquian Enterprises Group). The group was formerly known as the \"Sindicato Antioqueño\" (Antioquian Union) but after being mistaken abroad for a labor union, which hampered its international growth for many years, a new formal name was chosen. It is represented by David Bojanini, head of Grupo Suramericana (a banking, asset management and insurance conglomerate); Carlos Ignacio Gallego of Grupo Nutresa (food industry); José Alberto Velez of Cementos Argos (a multinational cement company); and Carlos Raúl Yepes, head of Bancolombia. This group has an aggregate market capitalization of approximately US $17 billion and employs more than 80,000 Colombians.\n\nThis group also participates in other sectors of the city industry and is an active trader in the Colombian stock exchange. Medellín serves as headquarters for many national and multinational companies.\n\nMedellín's main economic products are steel, textiles, confections, food and beverage, agriculture (from its rural area), public services, chemical products, pharmaceuticals, refined oil, and flowers. Fashion is a major part of the economy and culture of the city. Medellín hosts Latin America's biggest fashion show, Colombiamoda.\n\nAerolínea de Antioquia has its headquarters on the grounds of Enrique Olaya Herrera Airport in Medellín. West Caribbean Airways had its headquarters on the grounds of Olaya Herrera Airport. ACES Colombia was headquartered in the city. VivaColombia, the only low-cost Colombian airline, has its hub at Rionegro's Airport. \n\nThe Metropolitan Area of Medellín contributes 67% of the total GDP of the Department of Antioquia and 11% of the economy of Colombia. Antioquia is the second-greatest economic region of Colombia. By 2005, Antioquia's GDP was more than US$14,700,000,000 and the top exporting province in Colombia. The Aburrá Valley is the top economy in the province, and its GDP was $7,800 million. Medellín is the second-largest economic region in Colombia, after Bogotá.\n\nThe 2005 Report of the Economic Colombian Review of Proexport and the International Cooperation Agency of Medellín concluded that Medellín was at the same level of GDP contribution to the national economy as cities like Panama City in Panama, and San José de Costa Rica.\n\nMedellín created the first Colombian business cluster. The city is the top exporting region of the country, with 1,750 export businesses based in Medellín. The Cluster was created with the support of the Chamber of Commerce of Medellín and the City Administration for an actual total of 21,000 companies that share 40% of total exports, 25% of the regional GDP, and 40% of Metro Area employment. The main economic activities of the Medellín Cluster (MC) are in electricity generation, textile, fashion design, construction, tourism and business. One current goal of the Medellín Cluster is to include health services, an important sector in the local economy.\n\nRuta N is a non-profit in Medellín which helps foreign companies set up office in Medellín.\n\nAccording to data released by the Measuring Monetary Poverty and Inequality Mission (Spanish: \"Misión para el Empalme de las Series de Empleo, Pobreza y Desigualdad\", MESEP), in November 2009, the poverty rate in Medellín and its metropolitan area was reduced by 22.5%, from 49.7% to 38.5% during the period from 2002 to 2008. Similarly, the poverty rate decreased by 25.2%, from 12.3% to 9.2%. These results are in line with the increased coverage of basic services such as health, education, and public services in the city. In 2014, the poverty rate decreased to 14.7% and extreme poverty to 2.8%.\n\nThe unemployment rate in Medellín and its metropolitan area, as has been the case in Colombia as a whole, has decreased in the past decade. According to data from the National Statistics Department (Spanish: Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística, DANE) unemployment for Medellín and its Metropolitan Area was reduced by 25%, from 14.1%, just above the national average of 13.9% in 2005 to 10.6%, above the national average of 9.9%, in 2015. However, according to DANE, in 2014 Medellín stood out as one of the most unequal cities of Colombia, with a GINI coefficient of 0.506.\n\nThere are signs of heavy urban development within the city of Medellín, particularly with the construction of new skyscrapers. Medellín is currently outpacing all other major Colombian cities, including Bogotá, in the construction and proposed development of new high-rises. As of October 2016, there were 10 skyscrapers, 410 high-rises, 119 buildings under construction in Medellín, including 48 being planned. Other projects that the city has planned are extensions of the cities metro system to nearby suburbs such as Sabaneta. Currently under construction, the new project is set to open to the public soon.\n\nMedellín was awarded 2013 \"Innovative City of the Year\" by the Wall Street Journal on March 1 after beating out New York City and Tel Aviv.\n\nWhen Sergio Fajardo became Mayor of Medellín in 2004, the \"Medellín, Commitment of all the Citizens\" plan for the city was enacted. One of its fundamental axes was described as \"Social Urbanism\". The final objective of this model was to promote peace and social equity through its urban policies. To accomplish this, priority was given to the areas of the city where bigger social and economic issues were found. The main tool used with this objective was the planning and development of urban projects that would transform the physical environment while promoting profound social and cultural shifts in the communities they were implemented.\n\nThe projects were identified and prioritized using six main guidelines as described in the City Plan by the Council of Medellín:\nThe main objective of these projects is to fight inequity and exclusion. The neighborhoods with the biggest inequity and violence issues are identified and important investments are made in them. There is no previous agenda over what the specific nature of the interventions will finally be since the projects use a communicative approach to define what is best for the community with the active participation of its members. The outcomes will depend on what the neighborhood decides supported by the inclusion of the expertise of city organizations. The projects will have to incorporate all the elements needed to foster development and will be executed simultaneously to assure the biggest impact.\n\nAside from usual city investment in public infrastructure and as a result of this approach to city development, there were four main concrete projects that were established to help achieve the objectives of peace and social equity based on the guidelines proposed in the Medellín City Plan by the Council of Medellín.\n\nA \"library park\" () is a term first used in Medellín for an urban complex formed by a combination of a library building with ample surrounding green space for public use. These library parks are strategically located in the periphery of the city to address the need for more cultural and education space and public services in less affluent neighborhoods. The development of library complexes and schools is part of an effort at cultural transformation. This project also aims to create centralities inside the intervened areas that help consolidate and give a clearer identity to the communities. They are meant to provide a network of activity centers for the promotion of education, culture, sport, and recreation.\n\nThe initial plan in 2009 built five libraries with attached parks to serve underprivileged neighborhoods. The most famous of this development was possibly the Biblioteca Parque España designed by Giancarlo Mazzanti. and which was named after Spain, who helped fund the construction of one of its buildings. Architects of the other libraries added as part of the program include Ricardo La Rotta Caballero and Hiroshi Naito. The four other libraries added were León de Greiff Library (also known as La Ladera Library Park), San Javier Library Park, Bethlehem Library Park, and La Quintana Library Park.\n\nAfter the initial 2009 program another five libraries were added to the plan for 2011. These libraries are the Doce de Octubre Library Park for Comunas 5 and 6, Noroccidente; Las Estancias Library Park for Comunas 8, 9, and Centroriental; Parque Biblioteca Guayabal for Comuna 15 and Suroccidente; Parque Biblioteca San Cristóbal] for Corregimiento and Occidente; and Parque Biblioteca San Antonio de Prado for Corregimiento and Sur.\n\nThe idea of \"library parks\" has served as a model for library spaces in other countries, most notably the Manguinhos Library Park in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.\nThe Medellín Metropolitan Area Library Network is a set of libraries linked together to share resources, efforts, knowledge and experience to improve the educational and cultural conditions of the community. The network consists of over 100 libraries, 29 of which reside in Medellín. The Library Network includes all of Medellín's library parks, as well as other regional libraries, such as the Public Pilot Library and the EPM Library.\n\nThe Library Network was a program created as a metropolitan agreement in 2005 thanks to an alliance of Empresas Públicas de Medellín, its EPM Foundation, the Mayor of Medellín, and the Pilot Public Library. In 2009, the Library Network was awarded the \"Access to Learning Award\" by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, consisting of one million dollars to the EPM Foundation and the Library Network.\n\nAdditional libraries outside of this network include several other private, public, and university libraries.\n\nMedellín in 2013 won the Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design, awarded by Harvard University, due to PUI Integral Urban Project Northeast area, designed and implemented by Development Corporation Urbano. Medellín retains very little colonial architecture from the nineteenth century. Although the Aburrá Valley was a hotspot in agriculture and livestock throughout the colonial period, their relative wealth is not expressed in an outstanding and Cartagena, Tunja, Popayán and Bogotá civil and religious architecture. This can be explained by the fact that the population of Medellín was not political and administrative center and a place geographically isolated whose elite invested little in the development of monumental architecture. From the end of the colony remain, but with many transformations, the Candelaria Church and the Church of the Veracruz.\nThe architecture produced in Colombia between 1850 and 1930 is called \"Republican\". The use of brick and implementation of European historical styles were the main novelty. Enrique Haeusler designed the Guayaquil Bridge in 1879. But it was the French architect Carlos Carré who headlined Republican nineteenth century architecture in Medellín. Carré came to town in 1889 and was hired to design and build the new Episcopal Cathedral and several commercial and residential buildings for different parts of the city, especially in the new neighborhood of Guayaquil. The Metropolitan Cathedral was completed in 1931; also are of authorship Vásquez and Carré buildings, which are located next to Plaza Cisneros. The Medellín Antioquia Railway Station was the work of Enrique Olarte, a work that allowed the definitive urban consolidation in Guayaquil sector. In the twenties Republican architecture reached its peak phase. In this period stand the old Municipal Palace (now the Museum of Antioquia) in 1928, the National Palace and the Palace of Departmental Government (now the Palace of Culture) between 1925 and 1928. The latter two works were designed by the Belgian architect Agustín Goovaerts, both inspired by the Belgian modernist, it applied the Romanesque and Gothic styles respectively. Other works of Goovaerts were the Church of the Sacred Heart (sector Guayaquil), the Church of San Ignacio, among others. The thirties highlighted such constructions of the Prado neighborhood as the Egyptian house and the current Teatro Prado.\n\nThe main parks of the city include Berrío Park in the center of the city; Bolívar Park, a little further north and framed by the Metropolitan Cathedral; and others in more residential areas like Bethlehem Park, El Poblado Park, and Laureles Park. Several modern parks are interactive and have had a positive reception from the people because they are not only places of recreation but also of education. These include Barefoot Park, Wishes Park, Explora Park, and Bicentennial Park (which was recently opened to mark the bicentenary of Colombia).\n\nOne of the most visited sites is the Arví Ecotourism Park, which has an area of about 20,000 hectares, covers virtually the entire territory of the village of Santa Elena, and runs between the towns of Bello, Copacabana, and Envigado. In its trails, lakes, forests and streams, one can practice various sports and activities like trekking, kayaking, biking, camping, fishing, swimming, sailing rowing, horseback riding, bike tours and picnics. Its promontory position over Medellín offers natural landscapes overlooking over the entire city. \n\nThe city is surrounded from above by seven hills, which serve as natural viewpoints of the city and are sites for healthy leisure, recreation, enjoyment, research, sport, culture, education and ecotourism. The hills are El Volador, La Asomadera, Nutibara, Pan de Azúcar, El Salvador, El Picacho and Santo Domingo. In these natural public spaces one can find viewpoints, pre-Hispanic roads, religious icons, culture and Antioquian traditions, bird watching, the most complete herbal living of Aburrá Valley and the remains of early settlers native of Medellín, among other attractions.\n\nOther parks in the city include North Park and Juan Pablo II Park. The Santa Fe Zoo, founded in 1960, has about 1,000 animals from Asia, Africa, and the Americas.\n\n\n\nMedellín is considered a top research city in medicine in Colombia, being an exponent of advanced surgical operations in the country and Latin America. Health clinics and dental centers in Medellín have become pioneers in offering high quality services in several medical areas. The University Hospital San Vicente de Paul, the Pablo Tobon Uribe Hospital, and Clinical Cardiovascular Santa Maria have received national and international recognition as pioneers in organ transplantation.\n\nAmérica Economía magazine ranked Medellín as having eight of the top 100 hospitals and clinics in Latin America. Its highest ranked hospital was Pablo Tobon Uribe Hospital, which ranked in seventh place in 2014. The Pablo Tobon Uribe Hospital is non-profit and private.\n\nSpecialized health centres such as San Vicente Foundation hospitals were recognized with the Silver Category of LEED certification. This is the only hospital outside of the United States of America to obtain this certification.\n\nAmong the most recognized universities with notable research work in medicine are the University of Antioquia, CES University, and UPB University.\n\nMedellín is also home to over 30 universities. Among the most important public universities are the following:\n\nThere are also important technological centers such as the Metropolitan Institute of Technology (ITM), Jaime Isaza Cadavid's Politecnico, and Antioquia Institute of Technology.\n\nDuring the last decade, the administration of the city has emphasized public education, building schools and libraries in poor quarters. Private schools and colleges have a long tradition in the city, many run by the Catholic Church, private organizations, and foreign institutions. Among them are Gimnasio Internacional de Medellín, The Columbus School (the only SACS-approved school in the city), Theodoro Hertzl School, St. Ignatius Loyola College, Colegio Calasanz, Colegio Colombo Britanico, El Corazonista School, Marymount School, Montemayor Sagrado Corazon, Montessori School, Colegio Fontán, Gimnasio Los Pinares, Gimnasio Los Alcázares, San Jose de la Salle, Instituto Jorge Robledo, the Salesian Technical School Pedro Justo Berrío, Colegio Cumbres, Colegio San Marcos, Liceo Salazar y Herrera, and 'El Sufragio' Salesian School.\n\nMany non-governmental organizations and official organizations support the development of children and youth from poor communities. Ciudad Don Bosco cares for street children. The pacification of the city brought organizations to the poorest quarters to work with youth involved in urban violence, in order to improve their opportunities. Medellín universities, public and private, also played a role, along with official institutions both local and national.\n\nMedellín has one domestic airport, Olaya Herrera Airport (EOH), and one domestic and international airport, José María Córdova Airport (MDE), which is located in the city of Rionegro, east of the city of Medellín. In 2012 the busiest domestic flight route was between Jose Maria Cordova Airport and Bogotá while the busiest international route was between Jose Maria Cordova Airport and Panama City.\n\nThe Jose Maria Cordova Airport receives international flights from important carriers such as American Airlines, Copa Airlines, JetBlue and Lan Airlines, which makes the city accessible from the many regions of America. Avianca, the flag air-carrier of Colombia, has also an important activity at this airport.\n\nMedellín has two transportation terminals, the North Transportation Terminal and the South Transportation Terminal. The city's public transport system includes diesel buses, taxis, tram and an urban train referred as the Medellín Metro, the only metro system in Colombia.\nThe Metro connects the city with most of its metropolitan area. It has five lines. Line A goes from Niquía to La Estrella (north to south), while Line B goes from San Antonio to San Javier (downtown to west). In addition, Line K and Line J, an air cable car, locally known as Metrocable, serve a depressed and geographically difficult area. Line K begins at Acevedo Station on Metro Line A, and continues uphill, ending at Santo Domingo Savio. Line J begins at San Javier Station on Metro Line B, and continues uphill to La Aurora. Line L does not serve communal areas, rather, it is a tourist-oriented line which is connected to Arví Park and is part of a social project to bring retreats and nature to the masses. Colombia has become Latin America's largest user of such complementary transportation service throughout the country.\nIn 2006, construction began on Metroplús, a bus rapid transit service with a dedicated road, much like Bogotá's TransMilenio, to allow faster transit for the service's buses. The first line opened two years later than planned in 2011 and a second in 2013. The first leg is the \"Troncal Medellín\", which goes from the Universidad de Medellín in the west to Aranjuez in the northeast part of the city. Metroplus will help lessen the city's pollution and traffic, as many old buses will be taken out of service, while the new buses will work with natural gas. \nBecause of its projects on sustainable transport, the city obtained, along with San Francisco, the 2012 Sustainable Transport Award, given by the Institute for Transport and Development Policy. According to EMBARQ Director Holger Dalkmann, \"Medellín pioneered the use of cable cars as a transit alternative in low-income informal settlements in hilly areas, moving 3,000 passengers per hour per direction; a real breakthrough now being replicated in Caracas and Rio de Janeiro,\"\nThe Colombia and Latin America's largest and most modern tunnel, the Western Tunnel, officially named the Fernando Gomez Martinez Tunnel, is located between Medellín and Santa Fe de Antioquia. It is in length and offers security and service technologies for the users. It was inaugurated on January 20, 2006.\n\nOriginally, trams in Medellin were the most important transportation until 1950, but, after that, the rapidly increasing population and number of automobiles forcefully closed it in 1951. However, more than 60 years later, a new Translohr system (rubber-tired \"tram\"), the Ayacucho Tram, the first modern \"tram\" in Colombia, was opened on September 30, 2015. It is integrated with the metro system and the local bus network.\n\nThe average amount of time people spend commuting with public transit in Medellín, for example to and from work, on a weekday is 66 min. 12% of public transit riders, ride for more than 2 hours every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is 11 min, while 14.% of riders wait for over 20 minutes on average every day. The average distance people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is 5.9 km, while 5% travel for over 12 km in a single direction.\n\nThe Aburrá Valley contains 58% of the population of the Department of Antioquia, and 67% of the Aburrá Valley population lives in the city of Medellín. Of the inhabitants of Medellín, 61.3% were born in the city, 38% in other parts of Colombia and 0.3% in another country.\n\nAccording to the National Administrative Department of Statistics, Medellín had, by 2005, a population of 2,223,078 inhabitants, making it the second largest city in Colombia. The metropolitan area of Medellín in 2005 included 3,312,165 inhabitants. There are 5820 people per square kilometer in the city. There were 130,031 people living in the city townships; 46.7% of the population are male and 53.3% are female. Illiteracy is 9.8% in persons older than 5 years old. 98.8% of the households in Medellín have electricity, 97.3% have drinking water, and 91% have a land-line phone.\n\nAccording to the 2005 DANE census, in that year Medellín registered 33,307 births, slightly fewer than in 2004 (33,615). In 2005 the number of deaths was 10,828, in 2004 11,512.\n\nAccording to figures submitted by the DANE census 2005, the ethnographic makeup of the city is:\n\n\nDuring the 17th and 18th centuries, Medellín received many immigrants from Spain. Most Indigenous peoples died from the introduction of European diseases, and many of those who survived intermarried with early Spanish settlers, who were mostly men; later, Spanish women also began to immigrate. During the 19th and 20th centuries, immigrants arrived from Lebanon, Jordan, Germany, Italy and Portugal. Many people from Medellín are referred to as Paisas, people of mainly Spanish ancestry, a lot of them Basque.\nThere is a small Afro-Colombian and Zambo-Colombian (people of Indigenous and African descent) population .\n\nThe Chocó Department is just west of Antioquia, and is home to many Afro-Colombian and Zambo-Colombian migrants to Medellín and its vicinity. Migration from the Colombian Caribbean coast has been important, especially that of young people who come to study in Medellín universities and remain to work in the city. The main foreign immigration is of Ecuadorians in informal trade.\n\nThe culture in Medellín is strongly linked to a broader Paisa culture (see next section) whose unique attributes famously include their Spanish accent, cuisine, and hospitality. Today, Medellín has several cultural attractions for the public including approximately 40 museums, 21 public parks, 28 theaters, and several public libraries. The city also contains several National Monuments of Colombia.\n\nMost people in Medellín are Catholic, as reflected by Medellín's several churches and religious activities. Among the most representative churches are the Metropolitan Cathedral, the largest cathedral in the world built entirely in baked brick. There is also the Basilica of Our Lady of Candelaria, which was the official cathedral until 1931, the Church of San Ignacio, Baroque on the outside and Colonial on inside, the Church of San José, the Church of San Antonio, which has one of the biggest domes in Colombia, the Church of San José del Poblado, located in the Parque del Poblado where the first European settlement in the Aburrá Valley was founded in 1616, and the Church of Nuestra Señora de Belén. All of these temples have religious art and are located in the center of the city, which facilitates their journeys.\n\nIn December, the city is covered with thousands of fairy lights, creating the famous \"Alumbrados\" (Christmas lights), which are considered by the National Geographic as one of the ten most beautiful in the world, and which can be seen mainly on \"La Playa\" Avenue and the Medellín River.\nPlaza Mayor is the epicenter of large events and business. By a decree of the municipal government, between 1980 and 1990 all developments or tall buildings necessarily included a sculpture of a famous artist. That is one reason why Medellín has the largest number of sculptures per square kilometer in Colombia.\n\nFurthermore, the city has several festivals and exhibitions year-round. The silletero tradition is also closely tied to the region and is considered a part of Colombian cultural heritage. Since 1957, this tradition has continued in the Silleta Parade that takes place during the annual Festival of the Flowers, where silletas designed with flower arrangements are carried.\n\nWorks of many prominent artists, both local and foreign, can be seen on the streets of the city. Some artists who stand out are the masters Rodrigo Arenas Betancur and Fernando Botero.\n\nThe inhabitants of Medellín are often called \"Antioqueños\" (people of Antioquia) after their province, rather than \"Medellínenses\" (people of Medellín) after their city. They are also often known as \"Paisas\", a name which some suggest comes from the coffee growers. The term \"Paisa\" comes from the word \"paisano\", meaning \"fellow countryman\". \"Paisas\" make up one of the five different regional cultures within Colombia. In addition to Antioquia, the Paisa region includes the departments of Caldas, Risaralda, Quindio and some towns of Valle del Cauca and Tolima. Although Paisa culture is dominant in Medellín, the so-called \"Paisa Capital\", the city is becoming more cosmopolitan, now offering music from other regions of Colombia (Vallenato and Chocó), and a variety of restaurants including Chinese, Cuban, and Argentinian.\n\nThe Paisa culture has a Spanish background, and is traditionally Catholic, entrepreneurial, hard-working, and famously hospitable. Paisas are said to speak softly and quickly, to smile easily, and to love music, poetry, soccer, bargaining in the markets, and parties. They are proud of their city, and work hard to keep it clean, stemming from the campaign begun in the 1980s, \"Depende tambien de ti, darle amor a Medellín\" (It depends on you too to give love to Medellín). The Medellín weekend nightlife, in discos, pubs, parks, and certain dedicated streets, is traditionally called \"rumba\".\n\n\n\nMedellín has about 40 galleries, which are one of the main attractions of the city. Some of the main museums include the following:\n\nOther prominent museums are Centro Cultural Banco de la República, Entomological Museum Francisco Luis Gallego, Casa Museo Santa Fe, Museum of Natural Sciences, Ethnographic Museum Miguel Ángel Builes and the Mother Laura Ethnographic Museum.\n\nThe cuisine of Medellín is again tied to the larger culture of Antioquia. A typical regional dish is the bandeja paisa, meaning the \"paisa tray\", which usually includes beans, rice, pork, or another meat, chorizo, a fried egg, patacónes, salad and avocado. It is traditionally served on a tray slab or wood. It is traditional to consume meals with arepas, which are made with cooked, milled, and mixed corn without further ingredients.\n\nFor breakfast, it is common to accompany the food with hot chocolate and possibly a slice of cheese to dunk in the drink. Parva is a traditional component of the Antioquian gastronomy as well. This name is given to a wide variety of sweet and savory baked goods, including pan de queso, pan de bono, buñuelos, and pastries.\n\nOther foods that are typical in the region stem from Colombian food industries, such as Postobón Colombian sodas, the regional aguardiente known as \"Aguardiente Antioqueño\", and Jet chocolate bars.\n\nFootball is the most popular sport and is widely played in the city. Medellín has two professional clubs: Atlético Nacional, founded in 1935, and Independiente Medellín, founded in 1913. Both teams play at the Atanasio Girardot Stadium. The city has a soccer legacy thanks to notable players such as Rene Higuita, Iván Córdoba, Andrés Escobar, and Víctor Aristizábal, among many others. Other notable sportsmen of the city are the professional golfer and PGA Tour player Camilo Villegas and the retired Formula One, \nChamp Car, and IndyCar driver Roberto Guerrero.\nA popular sport in Medellín, and generally throughout Antioquia, is horseback riding; therefore, it has encouraged trade and production of tools and equipments for this activity, such as chairs and horseshoes for export. During the Festival of the Flowers, the cavalcades achieved a Guinness World Record in 1996 and 1999.\n\nThe city also has two Colombian professional basketball teams: the Arrieros of Antioquia and the Mountain Academy.\n\nThe Atanasio Girardot Sports Complex is the main sports arena complex of the city. It covers an area of and encompasses fields and stadiums for practice and competition for 34 sports. This is the headquarters of most professional sports leagues in Medellín. The sports complex has hosted several events, including the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup, the 2010 South American Games, and the 2001 Copa América.\n\nIn 2011, Medellín hosted the 15th IAAF Pan American Race Walking Cup. Athletes and teams from the countries in North, South, and Central American as well as the Caribbean Islands participated. In 2013, Medellín hosted the IAAF Pan American Junior Athletics Championships for track and field. Again, athletes and teams from the countries in North, South, and Central America as well as the Caribbean Islands participated. The junior athletes competed as a test trial for the 2018 Summer Youth Olympics.\n\nMedellín bid to host the 2018 Summer Youth Olympics but was defeated by Buenos Aires in the July 4, 2013 vote.\n\nAnother representative sport in the city is cycling. Its respective sport venue is the Martin Rodriguez Velodrome, named after Colombian road racing cyclist Martín Emilio Rodríguez. BMX is also popular, and its main venue is the BMX Track Antonio Roldán Betancur. The retired cycling three-time Tour de France stage winner and World Time-Trial Champion Santiago Botero Echeverry and the Olympic Gold Medalist and multiple BMX World Champion Mariana Pajón Londoño are both from Medellín.\n\nEnCicla is the name of Medellín's bicycle sharing system, the first bike sharing program in Latin America and the only one of its kind in Colombia. It was the shared winner of the Sustainable Transport Award in 2012 along with San Francisco. EnCicla is the result of an agreement between the metropolitan area of the Valley of Aburrá and EAFIT University. EnCicla is integrated within the city's existing infrastructure of cycle routes, mass transit, and public transport systems. It is available from Monday to Friday from 5:30 am to 8 pm from every EnCicla station.\nThe coat of arms, flag and anthem of the city, has the recognition of official symbols of the municipality of Medellín according to Decree No. 151 of February 20, 2002, and as emblems of the city are part of the corporate image of management municipal, and therefore are present in the acts, events and official media in which these should appear by its representative character.\n\nThe Medellín coat of arms is the oldest emblem of the city, has its origins in the granting of its use by King Charles II of Spain through the Real Decreto issued in Madrid on March 31 of 1678 whose document says:\n\nHowever, a more refined and structured in heraldic language, though not official, would be:\n\nThe blazon has remained over time since it was granted, without further changes to the aesthetics, it is noteworthy that there are different stylistic versions between the Mayor and City Council also meets aesthetic not heraldic standards.\n\nTo strengthen the links with the region, the municipality adopted the flag of the Department of Antioquia, which was added to the coat of arms of the city, so that these could make difference. The flag consists of two horizontal stripes of equal proportions, the white top and green bottom, and in the middle between two strips is located the coat. The white color symbolizes purity, integrity, obedience, firmness and eloquence. The green represents hope, abundance, freedom and faith.\n\nThe anthem of the city of Medellín is \"Anthem of Antioquia\", according to Decree No. 151 of February 20, 2002, Article 10, which says: \"Anthem of Medellín. To unify the ideals of the region the Antioquia anthem is adopted (lyrics by Epifanio Mejia and music by Gonzalo Vidal) as the Anthem of the Municipality of Medellín. It will be sung in all official functions where the Mayor of Medellín is present.\"\n\nMedellín is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "14318026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14318026", "title": "Mervyn C. Alleyne", "text": "Mervyn C. Alleyne\n\nMervyn Coleridge Alleyne (Trinidad and Tobago, 13 June 1933 - 23 November 2016) was a sociolinguist, creolist and dialectologist whose work focused on the creole languages of the Caribbean. \n\nHe attended Queen's Royal College in Port-of-Spain and later won a scholarship to the fledgling University College of the West Indies, Mona, Jamaica which he entered in 1953. After graduating from Mona, Alleyne obtained a PhD from the University of Strasbourg, France. He returned to the University of the West Indies (UWI), Mona as a lecturer in 1959, and was made Professor of Sociolinguistics in 1982. He returned to his homeland for a brief spell and lectured at the St Augustine campus of the UWI. He was a Visiting Professor at the University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras.\n\nUpon retirement from The University of the West Indies, Mona, the title of Professor emeritus was conferred on him. He was president of the Society for Caribbean Linguistics (SCL) from 1990 to 1992 and was made an honorary member of the SCL in 1998. He also became an honorary member of the Linguistic Society of America (LSA) in 1996. He is a co-founder of the journal \"Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages\". In 1996, a festschrift in his honour was published: \"Caribbean Language Issues, Old & New: Papers in Honour of Professor Mervyn Alleyne on the Occasion of His Sixtieth Birthday\" (edited by Pauline Christie, and published by UWI Press). In March 2007, Alleyne was the Humanities Scholar 2007 at The University of the West Indies, Cave Hill, Barbados. In October 2011, he was the guest of honour at the special panel discussion “The Interdisciplinary Scholarship of a Caribbeanist: A Tribute to Dr. Mervyn Alleyne,” an activity organized at the Institute of Caribbean Studies at the University of Puerto Rico at Río Piedras. \n\nAlleyne was best known as a pioneer in Creole Studies. He was one of the few Caribbean-born participants in the second ever International Conference on Creole Languages held at The University of the West Indies, Mona in April 1968, the proceedings of which were published in 1971 in \"Pidginization and Creolization of Languages\" edited by Dell Hymes. His paper “Acculturation and the Culture Matrix of Creolization” elaborated some of the themes which were to characterize his later work. Alleyne disagrees with the idea that creoles necessarily develop from prior pidgins, and he explains the considerable variation among creoles as the result of differing degrees of acculturation among Africans who came in contact with Europeans. \n\nAlleyne repudiated the use of the term 'creole', positing that its meaning is unclear. He carefully avoided it in his book \"Comparative Afro-American\" (1980), arguably the most quoted source on the relevant varieties. In addition to its detailed comparison of structural aspects of Sranan, Saramaccan, Jamaican Creole, Guyanese Creole, among others, this work reveals his preoccupation with the Black experience as a whole, and with the autonomy of Black culture. His fascination with the correlations between the linguistic picture and other aspects of culture, such as religion, manifests itself in \"Roots of Jamaican Culture\" (1988).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31495306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31495306", "title": "Monastery of the Virgins", "text": "Monastery of the Virgins\n\nThe Monastery of the Virgins is a structure uncovered during Benjamin Mazar's excavations south of Jerusalem's Temple Mount. The large number of Christian religious finds from the site have prompted its identification with a monastery described by a pilgrim, Theodosius the archdeacon, in his \"De Situ Terrae Sanctae\", a work of the early 6th century. The building was constructed in the 4th century on the remains of an earlier Herodian building identified with the Second Temple courthouse, and was destroyed during the Persian sack of Jerusalem in 614.\n\nThe building identified as the Monastery of the Virgins was unearthed in Area XV of Mazar's excavations of the Ophel on behalf of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Carried out between 1968 and 1977, the excavations revealed that a crowded residential neighbourhood stood in the area to the immediate south of the Temple Mount enclosure during Jerusalem's Byzantine Period. from the Triple Huldah Gate, at the foot of the Temple Mount's southern wall, the excavators revealed a structure whose plan resembled a typical Byzantine courtyard house, with wings arranged around a central courtyard. Built on top in the remains of a large Second Temple Period building and an older burial cave, the house featured three stories of which the basement and ground floor were well preserved. The excavation of the building yielded earlier Iron Age II shards, including a LMLK seal and the head of a fertility figurine. However, as a result of the building's excellent state of preservation digging beneath its floors was abandoned in order to allow its display to the public.\n\nMeasuring by , the structure was built in the early 4th century as a single spacious unit. Its ground floor included the courtyard, a kitchen, shops and staircases leading to the basement and the floor above, which housed a chapel. In the mid-6th century the northern and southern wings of its ground floor were modified and sealed off from the rest of the building.\n\nA destruction layer testifies to the destruction of the building in a great conflagration, probably during the Persian sack of the city in 614. In the destruction layer were found the remnants of the upper floor, which collapsed into the floor below. The remains of weapons, probably the defenders', were also found at the site. These include a sword, a scabbard, a pickaxe, a dagger and an umbo, a rare feature of the Byzantine weapons repertoire.\n\nWhile adjacent areas were built over during the subsequent Islamic periods, the building in area XV was left undisturbed. This allowed for its excellent state of preservation. It is currently accessible to visitors to the Jerusalem Archaeological Park at the foot of the Al-Aqsa Mosque.\n\nMultiple items of ecclesiastical nature were found in the structure. These include fragments of marble chancel screens, an altar table and a Second-Temple era stone ossuary in use as a reliquary and containing a skull. Crosses were ubiquitous, including on roof tiles, oil lamps, door knockers, and several bronze crosses, one of which was in length. Several fragments of a chancel screen depict two deer, Christian symbols of faith and devotion mentioned in , facing a cross planted on the Hill of Golgotha. A stone lintel was found depicting a cross enclosed within a wreath.\n\nAdditional finds include copper alloy chains and incense bowls, copper alloy lock and clasps decorated with the image of an arched entrance to a church, a sinuous dragon-headed arm from a multi-armed copper candelabra, and a copper hearth with decorative animal legs complete with rings for suspension.\n\nIn the northern section of the building which included the kitchen and several storage rooms, were found multiple storage jars. In some of these were found remnants of the food they once contained, including lentil and chickpea.\n\nThe large number of Christian items found in the structure have led to its identification with a monastery described by Theodosius the archdeacon in his \"De Situ Terrae Sanctae\" (On the Topography of the Holy Land). Theodosius describes a monastery of nuns at the foot of the Temple Mount's southeastern corner:\nThe excavators believe that the monastery had initially occupied the entire structure. In the 5th century, however, Jerusalem was granted patriarchal status and the following century saw the city develop and expand. As population density in Jerusalem grew, the needs of numerous pilgrims to the holy city led to a reduction in the Monastery's area in favour of public facilities. In the mid 6th century, two wings were detached from the monastery and sealed off, the northern wing to act as a public kitchen and the southern converted into a row of shops. Food for the monastery was prepared in the public kitchen and delivered through two windows left open between the two sections of the building.\n\nAdjacent buildings have aided the identification of the building as a monastery. from the Temple Mount wall, behind the monastery, stood a vaulted chamber with a sloping floor. This has been identified as a collection vat for wine, above which once stood a winery, a common feature of Byzantine monasteries. A two story structure to the east of the Monastery may have served as a hospice. Thirty well-preserved rooms were found on its ground floor, as was a red cross painted on a lintel in the building, and large watering pool on the outside.\n\nWhile the building certainly was a monastery, certain finds nevertheless cast doubt on its identification with Theodosius' Monastery of the Virgins. Theodosius's description dates from the early 6th century, while the structural modifications isolating the central portion have only been dated to the mid 6th century, and possibly later. Furthermore, Greek inscriptions found in the building feature no women, only men, including one reading \"for the offering and salvation of the Timotheus the priest\".\n\nThe identification of the site with Theodosius' monastery was first proposed by Yizhar Hirschfeld. Yoram Tsafrir has suggested that the monastery may have been located on the slopes below of the Temple Mount which have not yet been excavated or even in the hollows of the Temple Mount itself, within Solomon's Stables. No evidence has been found to corroborate either suggestions.\n\nUnderneath the coarse stones of the Byzantine walls, the walls of the monastery were built of large finely dressed stones, plastered and molded at the joints, a feature of Herodian construction. The monastery had been built over the remains of a large Second-Temple-era building which had stood adjacent to a major entrance to the Herodian Temple Mount. Benjamin Mazar had suggested that this may have been a courthouse of the Sanhedrin, the supreme Jewish judicial and legislative body, a building referred to in the Mishnah, \"Tractate Sanhedrin\" 11.2. Additional support for this identification comes from a fragment of a Hebrew inscription found nearby. The inscription contained the word \"[z]kenim\" (\"elders\"), probably referring to the Sanhedrin.\n\nAlthough completed in 1977, the results of the Temple Mount excavations had not been published by Benjamin Mazar's death in 1995. In 1996 the Institute of Archaeology of the Hebrew University authorized his granddaughter, Eilat Mazar, to publish the finds. Eilat Mazar had been her grandfather's research assistant, an area supervisor in the nearby City of David excavations, and had directed her own excavation in the Ophel in 1986-1987. The excavation report for area XV and the Monastery of the Virgins was finally published in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "50960465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50960465", "title": "Mystery Train (book)", "text": "Mystery Train (book)\n\nMystery Train: Images of America in Rock 'N' Roll Music is a non-fiction book written in 1975 by Greil Marcus. It features critical essays centered around artists such as Elvis Presley, Sly Stone, Robert Johnson, and Randy Newman.\nGreil Marcus, rock critic and columnist for \"Rolling Stone\", and contributor to other publications, such as \"Creem\", the \"Village Voice\", and \"Artforum\", wrote \"Mystery Train\" in 1975. In the prologue, he relates that the book \"is no attempt at synthesis, but a recognition of unities in the American imagination that already exist.\" The writing, according to the author, took about \"two years of doing nothing else.\"\n\n\"Mystery Train\", according to one reviewer, reflects on what could be called \"the historical turn\" that rock took at the close of the 60s, initiated by Bob Dylan and the Band, and followed through by everyone from Creedence Clearwater Revival to Randy Newman, the music moving \"beyond rock'n'roll's teenage immersion in the present to an adult sophistication steeped in deep knowledge of rock's roots in blues and country and lyrics that likewise looked to the past for inspiration.\"\n\nAccording to another reviewer, Marcus proceeds in his examination of American popular culture with the \"democratic assumption\" that Presley and Herman Melville are already cultural and political equals, and are, therefore, \"in conversation with one another - having a dialogue about freedom and limits, innovation and tradition, American dreams and American obsessions.\" When the 2nd edition came out, Elvis had recently died, and Marcus was asked to amend the chapter relating to Elvis by putting everything in the past tense but he refused, because, he said, \"Elvis' presence was so powerful, I felt he's always in the present tense.\"\n\n\"Mystery Train\" opens with an episode on the \"Dick Cavett show\", where Little Richard interrupts a disagreement between a writer and a critic, and closes with a transcript of Jerry Lee Lewis arguing with producer Sam Phillips as they are setting up to record \"Great Balls of Fire\" in 1957.. \n\nFrank Rich reviewed the book for \"The Village Voice\" and wrote that Marcus' \"frame of reference is so vast that he never runs out of connections worth making between the music he loves and just about anything else that matters in American art and life.” David Itzkoff and Alan Light, in a 2005 critical roundup of music-related books, claimed that \"Myster Train\" is \"perhaps the finest book ever written about pop music.\" \"New York Times\" literary critic Dwight Garner stated in 2015 that \"most critics and serious listeners think [\"Mystery Train\"]’s almost certainly the best book yet written about American music in general, and about rock in particular.\"\n\nIn 2011, \"Time\" magazine picked it among the \"100 best and most influential [books] written in English since 1923.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "3460155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3460155", "title": "NSA warrantless surveillance (2001–2007)", "text": "NSA warrantless surveillance (2001–2007)\n\nNSA warrantless surveillance (also commonly referred to as \"warrantless-wiretapping\" or \"-wiretaps\") refers to the surveillance of persons within the United States, including United States citizens, during the collection of notionally foreign intelligence by the National Security Agency (NSA) as part of the Terrorist Surveillance Program. The NSA was authorized to monitor, without obtaining a FISA warrant, the phone calls, Internet activity, text messages and other communication involving any party believed by the NSA to be outside the U.S., even if the other end of the communication lay within the U.S.\n\nCritics claimed that the program was an effort to silence critics of the Administration and its handling of several controversial issues. Under public pressure, the Administration allegedly ended the program in January 2007 and resumed seeking warrants from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC). In 2008 Congress passed the FISA Amendments Act of 2008, which relaxed some of the original FISC requirements.\n\nDuring the Barack Obama Administration, the NSA allegedly continued surveilling without warrants despite campaign promises to end the practice. In April 2009 officials at the United States Department of Justice acknowledged that the NSA had engaged in \"overcollection\" of domestic communications in excess of the FISC's authority, but claimed that the acts were unintentional and had since been rectified.\nA week after the 9/11 attacks, Congress passed the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists (AUMF), which inaugurated the \"War on Terror\". It later featured heavily in arguments over the NSA program.\n\nSoon after the 9/11 attacks President Bush established the President's Surveillance Program. As part of the program, the Terrorist Surveillance Program was established pursuant to an executive order that authorized the NSA to surveil certain telephone calls without obtaining a warrant (see ). The complete details of the executive order are not public, but according to administration statements, the authorization covers communication originating overseas from or to a person suspected of having links to terrorist organizations or their affiliates even when the other party to the call is within the US.\n\nIn October 2001, Congress passed the Patriot Act, which granted the administration broad powers to fight terrorism. The Bush administration used these powers to bypass the FISC and directed the NSA to spy directly on al-Qaeda via a new NSA electronic surveillance program. Reports at the time indicate that an \"apparently accidental\" \"glitch\" resulted in the interception of communications that were between two U.S. parties. This act was challenged by multiple groups, including Congress, as unconstitutional.\n\nThe precise scope of the program remains secret, but the NSA was provided total, unsupervised access to all fiber-optic communications between the nation's largest telecommunication companies' major interconnected locations, encompassing phone conversations, email, Internet activity, text messages and corporate private network traffic.\n\nFISA makes it illegal to intentionally engage in electronic surveillance as an official act or to disclose or use information obtained by such surveillance under as an official act, knowing that it was not authorized by statute; this is punishable with a fine of up to $10,000, up to five years in prison or both. The Wiretap Act prohibits any person from illegally intercepting, disclosing, using or divulging phone calls or electronic communications; this is punishable with a fine, up to five years in prison, or both.\n\nAfter an article about the program, (which had been code-named Stellar Wind), was published in \"The New York Times\" on December 16, 2005, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales confirmed its existence. The \"Times\" had published the story after learning that the Bush administration was considering seeking a court injunction to block publication. Bill Keller, the newspaper's executive editor, had withheld the story from publication since before the 2004 Presidential Election. The published story was essentially the same that reporters James Risen and Eric Lichtblau had submitted in 2004. The delay drew criticism, claiming that an earlier publication could have changed the election's outcome. In a December 2008 interview, former Justice Department employee Thomas Tamm claimed to be the initial whistle-blower. The FBI began investigating leaks about the program in 2005, assigning 25 agents and 5 prosecutors.\n\nAttorney and author Glenn Greenwald argued:Gonzales said the program authorized warrantless intercepts where the government had \"a reasonable basis to conclude that one party to the communication is a member of al Qaeda, affiliated with al Qaeda, or a member of an organization affiliated with al Qaeda, or working in support of al Qaeda\" and that one party to the conversation was \"outside of the United States\". The revelation raised immediate concern among elected officials, civil right activists, legal scholars and the public at large about the legality and constitutionality of the program and its potential for abuse. The controversy expanded to include the press' role in exposing a classified program, the role and responsibility of Congress executive oversight and the scope and extent of presidential powers.\n\nCRS released a report on the NSA program, \"Presidential Authority to Conduct Warrantless Electronic Surveillance to Gather Foreign Intelligence Information\", on January 5, 2006 that concluded:\n\nOn January 18, 2006 the Congressional Research Service released another report, \"Statutory Procedures Under Which Congress Is To Be Informed of U.S. Intelligence Activities, Including Covert Actions\". That report found that \"[b]ased upon publicly reported descriptions of the program, the NSA surveillance program would appear to fall more closely under the definition of an intelligence collection program, rather than qualify as a covert action program as defined by statute\", and, therefore, found no specific statutory basis for limiting briefings on the terrorist surveillance program. However, the report goes on to note in its concluding paragraph that limited disclosure is also permitted under the statute \"in order to protect intelligence sources and methods\".\n\nWhile not directly ruling on the legality of domestic surveillance, the Supreme Court can be seen as having come down on both sides of the Constitution/statute question, in somewhat analogous circumstances.\n\nIn \"Hamdi v. Rumsfeld\" (2004) the government claimed that AUMF authorized the detention of U.S. citizens designated as an enemy combatant despite its lack of specific language to that effect and notwithstanding the provisions of (a) that forbids the government to detain an American citizen except by act of Congress. In that case, the Court ruled:\n\nHowever, in \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\" the Court rejected the government's argument that AUMF implicitly authorized the President to establish military commissions in violation of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. The Court held:\n\nIn footnote 23, the Court rejected the notion that Congress is impotent to regulate the exercise of executive war powers:\n\nDozens of civil suits against the government and telecommunications companies over the program were consolidated before the chief judge of the Northern District of California, Vaughn R. Walker. One of the cases was a class-action lawsuit against AT&T, focusing on allegations that the company had provided the NSA with its customers' phone and Internet communications for a data-mining operation. Plaintiffs in a second case were the al-Haramain Foundation and two of its lawyers.\n\nOn August 17, 2006, Judge Anna Diggs Taylor of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan ruled in \"ACLU v. NSA\" that the Terrorist Surveillance Program was unconstitutional under the Fourth and First Amendments and enjoined the NSA from using the program to conduct electronic surveillance \"in contravention of [FISA or Title III]\". She wrote:\n\nIn August 2007, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit heard arguments in two lawsuits challenging the program. On November 16, 2007, the three judges—M. Margaret McKeown, Michael Daly Hawkins and Harry Pregerson—issued a 27-page ruling that the al-Haramain Foundation could not introduce a key piece of evidence because it fell under the government's claim of state secrets, although the judges said that \"In light of extensive government disclosures, the government is hard-pressed to sustain its claim that the very subject matter of the litigation is a state secret.\"\n\nIn a question-and-answer session published on August 22, Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell first confirmed that the private sector had helped the program. McConnell argued that the companies deserved immunity for their help: \"Now if you play out the suits at the value they're claimed, it would bankrupt these companies.\" Plaintiffs in the AT&T suit subsequently moved to have McConnell's acknowledgement admitted as evidence.\n\nIn a related legal development, on October 13, 2007, Joseph P. Nacchio, the former CEO of Qwest Communications, appealed an April 2007 insider trading conviction by alleging that the government withdrew opportunities for contracts worth hundreds of millions of dollars after Qwest refused to participate in an unidentified NSA program that the company thought might be illegal. He claimed that the NSA approached Qwest about participating in a warrantless surveillance program more than six months before 9/11. Nacchio used the allegation to show why his stock sale was not improper. According to a lawsuit filed against other telecommunications companies for violating customer privacy, AT&T began preparing facilities for the NSA to monitor \"phone call information and Internet traffic\" seven months before 9/11.\n\nOn January 20, 2006, cosponsors Senator Patrick Leahy and Ted Kennedy introduced Senate Resolution 350, a resolution \"expressing the sense of the Senate that Senate Joint Resolution 23 (107th Congress), as adopted by the Senate on September 14, 2001, and subsequently enacted as the Authorization for Use of Military Force does not authorize warrantless domestic surveillance of United States citizens\". This non-binding resolution died without debate.\n\nOn September 28, 2006, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Electronic Surveillance Modernization Act (H.R. 5825). It died in the Senate. Three competing, mutually exclusive, bills—the Terrorist Surveillance Act of 2006 (S.2455), the National Security Surveillance Act of 2006 (S.2455) and the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Improvement and Enhancement Act of 2006 (S.3001) – were referred for debate to the full Senate, but did not pass. Each of these bills would have broadened the statutory authorization for electronic surveillance, while subjecting it to some restrictions.\n\nOn January 17, 2007, Gonzales informed Senate leaders that the program would not be reauthorized. \"Any electronic surveillance that was occurring as part of the Terrorist Surveillance Program will now be conducted subject to the approval of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court,\" according to his letter.\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) sued NSA over the program. Detroit District Court judge Anna Diggs Taylor ruled on August 17, 2006 that the program was illegal under FISA as well as unconstitutional under the First and Fourth amendments of the Constitution. Judicial Watch, a watchdog group, discovered that at the time of the ruling Taylor \"serves as a secretary and trustee for a foundation that donated funds to the ACLU of Michigan, a plaintiff in the case\".\n\n\"ACLU v. NSA\" was dismissed on January 31, 2007 by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The court did not rule on the spying program's legality. Instead, it declared that the plaintiffs did not have standing to sue because they could not demonstrate that they had been direct targets of the program. The Supreme Court let the ruling stand.\n\nOn August 17, 2007, FISC said it would consider a request by the ACLU that asked the court to make public its recent, classified rulings on the scope of the government's wiretapping powers. FISC presiding judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly signed an order calling the ACLU's motion \"an unprecedented request that warrants further briefing\". The FISC ordered the government to respond on the issue by August 31. On the August 31 deadline, the National Security Division of the Justice Department filed a response in opposition to the ACLU's motion. On February 19, 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court, without comment, turned down an ACLU appeal, letting stand the earlier decision dismissing the case.\n\nOn September 18, 2008, the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) sued the NSA, President Bush, Vice President Cheney, Cheney's chief of staff David Addington, Gonzales and other government agencies and individuals who ordered or participated in the program. They sued on behalf of AT&T customers. An earlier, ongoing suit (\"Hepting v. AT&T\") by the EFF bogged down over the recent FISA changes.\n\nOn January 23, 2009, the Obama administration adopted the same position as its predecessor when it urged Judge Walker to set aside a ruling in \"Al-Haramain Islamic Foundation et al. v. Obama, et al.\" The Obama administration sided with the Bush administration in its legal defense of July 2008 legislation that immunized the nation's telecommunications companies from lawsuits accusing them of complicity in the program, according to Attorney General Eric Holder.\n\nOn March 31, 2010, Judge Walker ruled that the program was illegal when it intercepted phone calls of Al Haramain. Declaring that the plaintiffs had been \"subjected to unlawful surveillance\", the judge said the government was liable for damages. In 2012, the Ninth Circuit vacated the judgment against the United States and affirmed the district court's dismissal of the claim.\n\nSeveral commentators raised the issue of whether FISA needed to be amended to address foreign intelligence needs, technology developments and advanced technical intelligence gathering. The intent was to provide programmatic approvals of surveillance of foreign terrorist communications, so that they could then legally be used as evidence for FISA warrants. \"Fixing Surveillance\"; \"Why We Listen\", \"The Eavesdropping Debate We Should be Having\"; \"A New Surveillance Act\"; \"A historical solution to the Bush spying issue,\" \"Whispering Wires and Warrantless Wiretaps\" address FISA's inadequacies in the post-9/11 context.\n\nThe Bush administration contended that amendment was unnecessary because they claimed that the President had inherent authority to approve the NSA program, and that the process of amending FISA might require disclosure of classified information that could harm national security. In response, Senator Leahy said, \"If you do not even attempt to persuade Congress to amend the law, you must abide by the law as written.\" President Bush claimed that the law did not apply because the Constitution gave him \"inherent authority\" to act.\n\nSome politicians and commentators used \"difficult, if not impossible\" to argue that the administration believed Congress would have rejected an amendment. In his written \"Responses to Questions from Senator Specter\" in which Specter specifically asked why the administration had not sought to amend FISA, Gonzales wrote:\n\nCompeting legislative proposals to authorize the NSA program subject to Congressional or FISC oversight were the subject of Congressional hearings. On March 16, 2006, Senators Mike DeWine, Lindsey Graham, Chuck Hagel and Olympia Snowe introduced the Terrorist Surveillance Act of 2006 (S.2455), that gave the President limited statutory authority to conduct electronic surveillance of suspected terrorists in the US, subject to enhanced Congressional oversight. That day Specter introduced the National Security Surveillance Act of 2006 (S.2453), which would amend FISA to grant retroactive amnesty for warrantless surveillance conducted under presidential authority and provide FISC jurisdiction to review, authorize and oversee \"electronic surveillance programs\". On May 24, 2006, Specter and Feinstein introduced the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Improvement and Enhancement Act of 2006 (S.3001) denoting FISA as the exclusive means to conduct foreign intelligence surveillance.\n\nOn September 13, 2006, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted to approve all three, mutually exclusive bills, thus, leaving it to the full Senate to resolve.\n\nOn July 18, 2006, U.S. Representative Heather Wilson introduced the Electronic Surveillance Modernization Act (H.R. 5825). Wilson's bill would give the President the authority to authorize electronic surveillance of international phone calls and e-mail linked specifically to identified terrorist groups immediately following or in anticipation of an armed or terrorist attack. Surveillance beyond the initially authorized period would require a FISA warrant or a presidential certification to Congress. On September 28, 2006 the House of Representatives passed Wilson's bill and it was referred to the Senate.\n\nEach of these bills would in some form broaden the statutory authorization for electronic surveillance, while still subjecting it to some restrictions. The Specter-Feinstein bill would extend the peacetime period for obtaining retroactive warrants to seven days and implement other changes to facilitate eavesdropping while maintaining FISC oversight. The DeWine bill, the Specter bill, and the Electronic Surveillance Modernization Act (already passed by the House) would all authorize some limited forms or periods of warrantless electronic surveillance subject to additional programmatic oversight by either the FISC (Specter bill) or Congress (DeWine and Wilson bills).\n\nOn January 18, 2007, Gonzales told the Senate Judiciary Committee,\n\nThe ruling by the FISC was the result of a two-year effort between the White House and the court to find a way to obtain court approval that also would \"allow the necessary speed and agility\" to find terrorists, Gonzales said in a letter to the top committee members. The court order on January 10 will do that, Gonzales wrote. Senior Justice department officials would not say whether the orders provided individual warrants for each wiretap or whether the court had given blanket legal approval for the entire NSA program. The ACLU said in a statement that \"without more information about what the secret FISC has authorized, there is no way to determine whether the NSA's current activities are lawful\". Law professor Chip Pitts argued that substantial legal questions remain regarding the core NSA program as well as the related data mining program (and the use of National Security Letters), despite the government's apparently bringing the NSA program within the purview of FISA.\n\nIn August 2008, the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review (FISCR) affirmed the constitutionality of the Protect America Act of 2007 in a heavily redacted opinion released on January 15, 2009, only the second such public ruling since the enactment of the FISA Act.\n\nArticle I vests Congress with the sole authority \"To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces\" and \"To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof.\" The Supreme Court has used the \"necessary and proper\" clause to affirm broad Congressional authority to legislate as it sees fit in the domestic arena, but has limited its application in foreign affairs. In the landmark \"US v. Curtiss-Wright\" (1936) decision, Justice George Sutherland for the Court:\n\nArticle II vests the President with power as \"Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States,\" and requires that the President \"shall take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed\".\n\nThe Fourth Amendment is part of the Bill of Rights and prohibits \"unreasonable\" searches and seizures by the government. A search warrant must be judicially sanctioned, based on probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation (usually by a law enforcement officer), particularly describing the place to be searched and the persons or things to be seized, limited in scope (according to specific information supplied to the issuing court). It is solely a right of the people that neither the Executive nor Legislative branch can lawfully abrogate, even if acting in concert: no statute can make an unreasonable search reasonable.\n\nThe term \"unreasonable\" connotes the sense that a constitutional search has a rational basis, that it is not an excessive imposition upon the individual given the circumstances and is in accordance with societal norms. It relies on judges to be sufficiently independent of the authorities seeking warrants that they can render an impartial decision. Evidence obtained in an unconstitutional search is inadmissible in a criminal trial (with certain exceptions).\n\nThe Fourth Amendment explicitly allows reasonable searches, including searches without warrant in specific circumstances. Such circumstances include the persons, property and papers of individuals crossing the border of the United States and those of paroled felons; prison inmates, public schools and government offices; and of international mail. Although these are undertaken pursuant to a statute or an executive order, they derive their legitimacy from the Amendment, rather than these.\n\nThe Tenth Amendment explicitly states that powers neither granted to the federal government nor prohibited to the states are reserved to the states or the people. The Ninth Amendment states, \"The enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.\"\n\nThe Ninth Amendment bars denial of ununenumerated rights if the denial is based on the \"enumeration of certain rights\" in the Constitution, but does not bar denial of unenumerated rights if the denial is based on the \"enumeration of certain powers\" in the Constitution.\n\nThe Supreme Court has historically used Article II to justify wide deference to the President in foreign affairs. Two historical and recent cases define the secret wiretapping by the NSA. \"Curtiss-Wright\":\n\nThe extent of the President's power as Commander-in-Chief has never been fully defined, but two Supreme Court cases are considered seminal in this area: \"Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co. v. Sawyer\" (1952) and \"Curtiss-Wright\".\n\nThe Supreme Court held in \"Katz v. United States\" (1967), that the monitoring and recording of private conversations within the United States constitutes a \"search\" for Fourth Amendment purposes, and therefore require a warrant.\n\nThe Supreme Court held in \"Smith v Maryland\" (1979) that a judicial warrant is required for the government to acquire the content of electronic communications. However, subpoenas but not warrants are required for the business records ( \"metadata\") of their communications, data such as the numbers that an individual has phoned, when and, to a limited degree, where the phone conversation occurred.\n\nThe protection of \"private conversations\" has been held to apply only to conversations where the participants have manifested both a desire and a reasonable expectation that their conversation is indeed private and that no other party is privy to it. In the absence of such a reasonable expectation, the Fourth Amendment does not apply, and surveillance without warrant does not violate it. Privacy is clearly not a reasonable expectation in communications to persons in the many countries whose governments openly intercept electronic communications, and is of dubious reasonability in countries against which the United States is waging war.\n\nVarious Circuit Courts upheld warrantless surveillance when the target was a foreign agent residing abroad, a foreign agent residing in the US and a US citizen abroad. The exception does not apply when both the target and the threat were deemed domestic. The legality of targeting US persons acting as agents of a foreign power and residing in this country has not been addressed by the Supreme Court, but occurred in the case of Aldrich Ames.\n\nThe law recognizes a distinction between domestic surveillance taking place within U.S. borders and foreign surveillance of non-U.S. persons either in the U.S. or abroad. In \"United States v. Verdugo-Urquidez\", the Supreme Court reaffirmed the principle that the Constitution does not extend protection to non-U.S. persons located outside of the United States, so no warrant was required to engage in even physical searches of non-U.S. citizens abroad.\n\nIn 1985 the Supreme Court established the \"border search exception\", which permits warrantless searches at the US border \"or its functional equivalent\" in \"United States v. Montoya De Hernandez\", 473 U.S. 531, 538. The US can do so as a sovereign nation to protect its interests. Courts have explicitly included computer hard drives within the exception (\"United States v. Ickes\", 393 F.3d 501 4th Cir. 2005), while \"United States v. Ramsey\", explicitly included all international postal mail.\n\nThe Supreme Court has not ruled on the constitutionality of warrantless searches targeting foreign powers or their agents within the US. Multiple Circuit Court rulings uphold the constitutionality of warrantless searches or the admissibility of evidence so obtained. In \"United States v. Bin Laden\", the Second Circuit noted that \"no court, prior to FISA, that was faced with the choice, imposed a warrant requirement for foreign intelligence searches undertaken within the United States.\"\n\nThe National Security Act of 1947 requires Presidential findings for covert acts. SEC. 503. [50 U.S.C. 413b] (a) (5) of that act states: \"A finding may not authorize any action that would violate the Constitution or any statute of the United States.\"\n\nUnder § 501–503, codified as 50 USC § 413-§ 413b, the President is required to keep Congressional intelligence committees \"fully and currently\" informed of U.S. intelligence activities, \"consistent with ... protection from unauthorized disclosure of classified information relating to sensitive intelligence sources and methods or other exceptionally sensitive matters.\" For covert actions, from which intelligence gathering activities are specifically excluded in § 413b(e)(1), the President is specifically permitted to limit reporting to selected Members.\n\nThe 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) regulates government agencies' physical searches and electronic surveillance, in cases wherein a significant purpose is to gather foreign intelligence information. \"Foreign intelligence information\" is defined in as information necessary to protect the U.S. or its allies against actual or potential attack from a foreign power, sabotage or international terrorism. FISA defines a \"foreign power\" as a foreign government or any faction(s) of a foreign government not substantially composed of US persons, or any entity directed or controlled by a foreign government. FISA provides for both criminal and civil liability for intentional electronic surveillance under color of law except as authorized by statute.\n\nFISA specifies two documents for the authorization of surveillance. First, FISA allows the Justice Department to obtain warrants from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) before or up to 72 hours after the beginning of the surveillance. FISA authorizes a FISC judge to issue a warrant if \"there is probable cause to believe that… the target of the electronic surveillance is a foreign power or an agent of a foreign power.\" 50 U.S.C. § 1805(a)(3). Second, FISA permits the President or his delegate to authorize warrantless surveillance for the collection of foreign intelligence if \"there is no substantial likelihood that the surveillance will acquire the contents of any communication to which a United States person is a party\". 50 U.S.C. § 1802(a)(1).\n\nIn 2002, the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review (Court of Review) met for the first time and issued an opinion (\"\"). They noted that all of the Federal courts of appeal had considered the issue and concluded that constitutional power allowed the president to conduct warrantless foreign intelligence surveillance. Furthermore, based on these rulings it \"took for granted such power exists\" and ruled that under this presumption, \"FISA could not encroach on the president's constitutional power.\"\n\n(2)(f) provides in part that FISA \"shall be the exclusive means by which electronic surveillance, as defined in ... and the intercept of domestic [communications] may be conducted\". The statute includes a criminal sanctions subpart granting an exception, \"unless authorized by statute\".\n\nThe Authorization for Use of Military Force was passed by Congress shortly after the 9/11 attacks. AUMF was used to justify the Patriot Act and related laws. It explicitly states in Section 2:\n\nSection 215 of the PATRIOT act authorized the FBI to subpoena some or all business records from a business record holder using a warrant applied for in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.\n\nThe legality of surveillance involving US persons and extent of this authorization is the core of this controversy which includes:\n\nBecause of its highly classified status, little is officially known about the implementation of the TSP. Mark Klein, a retired AT&T communications technician, submitted an affidavit describing technical details known to him personally in support of the 2006 \"Hepting v. AT&T\" court \"case\".\n\nKlein's January 16, 2004 statement included additional details regarding the construction of an NSA monitoring facility in Room 641A of 611 Folsom Street in San Francisco, the site of a large SBC phone building, three floors of which were occupied by AT&T.\n\nAccording to Klein's affidavit, the NSA-equipped room used equipment built by Narus Corporation to intercept and analyze communications traffic, as well as to perform data-mining.\n\nExperts from academia and the computing industry analyzed potential security risks posed by the NSA program, based on Klein's affidavits and those of expert witness J. Scott Marcus, a designer of large-scale IP-based data networks, former CTO at GTE Internetworking and at Genuity, and former senior advisor for Internet Technology at the Federal Communications Commission. They concluded that the likely architecture of the system created serious security risks, including the danger that it could be exploited by unauthorized users, criminally misused by trusted insiders or abused by government agents.\n\nDavid Addington – at that time legal counsel to former Vice President Dick Cheney – was reported to be the author of the controlling legal and technical documents for the program.\n\nWhile the dispute over the NSA program was waged on multiple fronts, the legal dispute pitted Bush and Obama administrations against opponents in Congress and elsewhere. Supporters claimed that the President's Constitutional duties as commander in chief allowed him to take all necessary steps in wartime to protect the nation and that AUMF activated those powers. Opponents countered by claiming that instead that existing statutes (predominantly FISA) circumscribed those powers, including during wartime.\n\nFormally, the question can be seen as a disagreement over whether Constitutional or statutory law should rule in this case.\n\nAs the debate continued, other arguments were advanced.\n\nThe constitutional debate surrounding the program is principally about separation of powers. If no \"fair reading\" of FISA can satisfy the canon of avoidance, these issues must be decided at the appellate level. In such a separation of powers dispute, Congress bears burden of proof to establish its supremacy: the Executive branch enjoys the presumption of authority until an Appellate Court rules against it.\n\nWhether \"proper exercise\" of Congressional war powers includes authority to regulate the gathering of foreign intelligence is a historical point of contention between the Executive and Legislative branches. In other rulings has been recognized as \"fundamentally incident to the waging of war\".\n\n\"Presidential Authority to Conduct Warrantless Electronic Surveillance to Gather Foreign Intelligence Information\", published by The Congressional Research Service stated:\n\nThe same report repeats the Congressional view that intelligence gathered within the U.S. and where \"one party is a U.S. person\" qualifies as domestic in nature and as such is within their purview to regulate, and further that Congress may \"tailor the President's use of an inherent constitutional power\":\n\nThe Bush administration claimed that the administration viewed the unanimity of pre-FISA Circuit Court decisions as vindicating their argument that warrantless foreign-intelligence surveillance authority existed prior to and subsequent to FISA and that this derived its authority from the Executive's inherent Article II powers, which may not be encroached upon by statute.\n\nEven some legal experts who agreed with the outcome of ACLU v. NSA criticized the opinion's reasoning. Glenn Greenwald argued that the perceived flaws in the opinion in fact reflect the Department of Justice's refusal to argue the legal merits of the program (they focused solely on standing and state secrets grounds).\n\nFISA grants FISC the exclusive power to authorize surveillance of US persons as part of foreign intelligence gathering and makes no separate provision for surveillance in wartime. The interpretation of FISA's exclusivity clause is central because both sides agree that the NSA program operated outside FISA. If FISA is the controlling authority, the program is illegal.\n\nThe \"no constitutional issue\" critique is that Congress has the authority to legislate in this area under Article I and the Fourth Amendment, while the \"constitutional conflict\" critique claims that the delineation between Congressional and Executive authority in this area is unclear, but that FISA's exclusivity clause shows that Congress had established a role for itself in this arena.\n\nThe Bush administration argued both that the President had the necessary power based solely on the Constitution and that conforming to FISA was not practical given the circumstances. Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs, William Moschella, wrote:\n\nFBI Special Agent Coleen Rowley, in her capacity as legal counsel to the Minneapolis Field Office recounted how FISA procedural hurdles had hampered the FBI's investigation of Zacarias Moussaoui (the so-called \"20th hijacker\") prior to the 9/11 attacks. Among the factors she cited were the complexity of the application, the amount of detailed information required, confusion by field operatives about the standard of probable cause required by the FISC and the strength of the required link to a foreign power. At his appearance before the Senate Judiciary Committee in June 2002, FBI Director Robert Mueller responded to questions about the Rowley allegations, testifying that unlike normal criminal procedures, FISA warrant applications are \"complex and detailed\", requiring the intervention of FBI Headquarters (FBIHQ) personnel trained in a specialized procedure (the \"Woods\" procedure) to ensure accuracy.\n\nThe Supreme Court made no ruling on this question. However, on June 29, 2006, in \"Hamdan\", the Supreme Court rejected an analogous argument. Writing for the majority, Justice John Paul Stevens, while ruling that \"the AUMF activated the President's war powers, and that those powers include the authority to convene military commissions in appropriate circumstances\" (citations omitted), held that nothing in the AUMF language expanded or altered the Uniform Code of Military Justice (which governs military commissions.) Stevens distinguished \"Hamdan\" from \"Hamdi\" (in which AUMF language was found to override the explicit language regarding detention in 18 U.S.C. § 4001(a)) in that \"Hamdan\" would require a \"Repeal by implication\" of the UCMJ.\n\nThe Bush administration held that AUMF enables warrantless surveillance because it is an authorizing statute.\n\nAn Obama Department of Justice whitepaper interpreted FISA's \"except as authorized by statute\" clause to mean that Congress allowed for future legislative statute(s) to provide exceptions to the FISA warrant requirements and that the AUMF was such a statute. They further claimed that AUMF implicitly provided executive authority to authorize warrantless surveillance.\n\nThis argument is based on AUMF language, specifically, the acknowledgment of the President's Constitutional authority contained in the preamble:\n\nand the language in the resolution;\n\nThe Obama administration further claimed that Title II of the USA PATRIOT Act entitled \"Enhanced Surveillance Procedures\" also allowed the program, Obama stated that Americans' civil liberties were protected and that purely domestic wiretapping was conducted only pursuant to warrants.\n\nBecause FISA authorizes the President to bypass the FISC only during the first 15 days of a war declared by Congress, the argument claimed the AUMF implicitly gave the President the necessary power (as would any Congressional declaration of war). However, as a declaration of war encompasses all military actions so declared, including any otherwise constrained by Congress, the administration held that FISA set a presumptive minimum, which might be extended (explicitly or implicitly) by a declaration.\n\nCorporate secrecy is also an issue. In a letter to the EFF, AT&T objected to the filing of the documents in any manner, saying that they contain sensitive trade secrets and could be \"used to 'hack' into the AT&T network, compromising its integrity\". However, Chief Judge Walker stated, during the September 12, 2008 hearing in the EFF class-action lawsuit, that the Klein evidence could be presented in court, effectively ruling that AT&T's trade secret and security claims were unfounded.\n\nThe Bush administration contended that with regard to the NSA program, it had fulfilled its notification obligations by briefing key members of Congress (thirteen individuals between the 107th and 109th Congressional sessions) more than a dozen times, but they were forbidden from sharing that information with other members or staff.\n\nThe CRS report asserted that the specific statutory notification procedure for covert action did not apply to the NSA program. It is not clear whether a restricted notification procedure intended to protect sources and methods was expressly prohibited. Additionally, the sources and methods exception requires a factual determination as to whether it should apply to disclosure of the program itself or only to specific aspects.\n\nPeter J. Wallison, former White House Counsel to President Ronald Reagan stated, \"It is true, of course, that a president's failure to report to Congress when he is required to do so by law is a serious matter, but in reality the reporting requirement was a technicality that a President could not be expected to know about.\"\n\nThe majority of legal arguments supporting the program were based on the War Powers Resolution. The War Powers Resolution has been questioned since its creation, and its application to the NSA program was questioned.\n\nNo declaration of war explicitly applied to US citizens. Under the War Powers Resolution the only option to include them was to enact an encompassing authorization of the use of military force. The AUMF did not explicitly do so. Under AUMF, \"nations, organizations or persons\" must be identified as having planned, authorized, committed, aided or harbored the (9/11) attackers. Military force is thereby limited to those parties. Since no US citizens were alleged to be involved in the 9/11 attacks, and since AUMF strictly states that war-time enemies are those who were involved in 9/11, including US citizens in general exceeds these provisions.\n\nOpinions that actions stemming from the Patriot Act are constitutional follow from the AUMF. Since AUMF wartime powers do not explicitly apply to US citizens in general, they are exempted from its provision as a function of Ninth Amendment unenumerated rights. Thus Patriot Act provisions that are unconstitutionally (violating first, fourth and other amendments) applied to US citizens, are not rescued by the AUMF.\n\nPhilip Heymann claimed Bush had misstated the \"\" ruling that supported Congressional regulation of surveillance. Heymann said, \"The bottom line is, I know of no electronic surveillance for intelligence purposes since the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act was passed that was not done under the ... statute.\"\n\nCole, Epstein, Heynmann, Beth Nolan, Curtis Bradley, Geoffrey Stone, Harold Koh, Kathleen Sullivan, Laurence Tribe, Martin Lederman, Ronald Dworkin, Walter Dellinger, William Sessions and William Van Alstyne wrote, \"the Justice Department's defense of what it concedes was secret and warrantless electronic surveillance of persons within the United States fails to identify any plausible legal authority for such surveillance.\" They summarized:Law school dean Robert Reinstein asserted that the warrantless domestic spying program isLaw professor Robert M. Bloom and William J. Dunn, a former Defense Department intelligence analyst, claimed:Law professor Jordan Paust argued:Law Dean Harold Koh, Suzanne Spaulding and John Dean contended that FISA was controlling, (in seeming disagreement with the FISC of Review finding) and that the President's admissions constituted sufficient evidence of a violation of the Fourth Amendment, without requiring further factual evidence.\n\nLaw professor John C. Eastman compared the CRS and DOJ reports and concluded instead that under the Constitution and ratified by both historical and Supreme Court precedent, \"the President clearly has the authority to conduct surveillance of enemy communications in time of war and of the communications to and from those he reasonably believes are affiliated with our enemies. Moreover, it should go without saying that such activities are a fundamental incident of war.\"\n\nLaw professor Orin Kerr argued that the part of \"In re: Sealed Case No. 02-001\" that dealt with FISA (rather than the Fourth Amendment) was nonbinding \"obiter dicta\" and that the argument did not restrict Congress's power to regulate the executive in general. Separately Kerr argued for wireless surveillance based on the fact that the border search exception permits searches at the border \"or its functional equivalent.\" (\"United States v. Montoya De Hernandez\", 473 U.S. 531, 538 (1985)). As a sovereign nation the US can inspect goods crossing the border. The ruling interpreted the Fourth Amendment to permit such searches. Courts have applied the border search exception to computers and hard drives, e.g., \"United States v. Ickes\", 393 F.3d 501 (4th Cir. 2005) Case law does not treat data differently than physical objects. Case law applies the exception to international airports and international mail (\"United States v. Ramsey\"). Case law is phrased broadly. The exception could analogously apply to monitoring an ISP or telephony provider.\n\nU.S. District Judge Dee Benson, who served on the FISC, stated that he was unclear on why the FISC's emergency authority would not meet the administration's stated \"need to move quickly\". The court was also concerned about \"whether the administration had misled their court about its sources of information on possible terrorism suspects ... [as this] could taint the integrity of the court's work.\"\n\nJudge Richard Posner opined that FISA \"retains value as a framework for monitoring the communications of known terrorists, but it is hopeless as a framework for detecting terrorists. [FISA] requires that surveillance be conducted pursuant to warrants based on probable cause to believe that the target of surveillance is a terrorist, when the desperate need is to find out who is a terrorist.\"\n\nThe Bush administration compared the NSA warrantless surveillance program with historical wartime warrantless searches in the US, going back to the time of the nation's founding.\n\nCritics pointed out that the first warrantless surveillance occurred before the adoption of the U.S. Constitution, and the other historical precedents cited by the administration were before FISA's passage and therefore did not directly contravene federal law. Earlier electronic surveillance by the federal government such as Project SHAMROCK, led to reform legislation in the 1970s. Advancing technology presented novel questions as early as 1985.\n\nExecutive orders by previous administrations including Presidents Clinton and Carter authorized their Attorneys General to exercise authority with respect to both options under FISA. Clinton's executive order authorized his Attorney General \"[pursuant] to section 302(a)(1)\" to conduct physical searches without court order \"if the Attorney General makes the certifications required by that section\".\n\nThe Unitary Executive theory as interpreted by John Yoo et al., supported the Bush administration's Constitutional argument. He argued that the President had the \"inherent authority to conduct warrantless searches to obtain foreign intelligence\".\n\nThe United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled that the President's authority as commander-in-chief extends to the \"independent authority to repel aggressive acts...without specific congressional authorization\" and without court review of the \"level of force selected\". Whether such declarations applying to foreign intelligence are or must be in compliance with FISA has been examined by few courts.\n\nNo single law criminalizes the leaking of classified information. Statutes prohibit leaking certain types of classified information under certain circumstances. One such law is ; it was tacked on to the Espionage Act of 1917. It is known as the 'SIGINT' statute, meaning signals intelligence. This statute says:\n\nThis statute is not limited in application to only federal government employees. However, the Code of Federal Regulations suggests the statute may apply primarily to the \"[c]ommunication of classified information by Government officer or employee\". 50 USCS § 783 (2005).\n\nA statutory procedure allows a \"whistleblower\" in the intelligence community to report concerns with the propriety of a secret program. The Intelligence Community Whistleblower Protection Act of 1998, Pub. L. 105–272, Title VII, 112 Stat. 2413 (1998) essentially provides for disclosure to the agency Inspector General, and if the result of that is unsatisfactory, appeal to the Congressional Intelligence Committees. Former NSA officialRuss Tice asked to testify under the terms of the Intelligence Community Whistleblower Protection Act, in order to provide information to these committees about \"highly classified Special Access Programs, or SAPs, that were improperly carried out by both the NSA and the Defense Intelligence Agency\".\n\nExecutive Order 13292, which sets up the U.S. security classification system, provides (Sec 1.7) that \"[i]n no case shall information be classified in order to conceal violations of law\".\n\nGiven doubts about the legality of the overall program, the classification of its existence may not have been valid under E.O. 13292.\n\nIt is unlikely that a media outlet could be held liable for publishing classified information under established Supreme Court precedent. In \"Bartnicki v. Vopper\", 532 U.S. 514, the Supreme Court held that the First Amendment precluded liability for a media defendant for publication of illegally obtained communications that the media defendant itself did nothing illegal to obtain, if the topic involves a public controversy. Due to the suit's procedural position, the Court accepted that intercepting information that was ultimately broadcast by the defendant was initially illegal (in violation of ECPA), but nonetheless gave the radio station a pass because it did nothing itself illegal to obtain the information.\n\nNor could the government have prevented the publication of the classified information by obtaining an injunction. In the Pentagon Papers case, (\"New York Times Co. v. U.S.\", ), the Supreme Court held that injunctions against the publication of classified information (\"United States-Vietnam Relations, 1945–1967: A Study Prepared by The Department of Defense\" – a 47-volume, 7,000-page, top-secret United States Department of Defense history of the United States' involvement in the Vietnam War) were unconstitutional prior restraints and that the government had not met the heavy burden of proof required for prior restraint.\n\nThe \"1917 Espionage Act\", aside from the SIGINT provision discussed above, only criminalizes 'national defense' information, not 'classified' information. Although the Justice Department as a matter of law sees no exemption for the press, as a matter of fact it has refrained from prosecuting:\n\nOn the other hand, Sean McGahan of Northeastern University stated,\n\nOn December 17, 2005, President Bush addressed the growing controversy in his weekly radio broadcast. He stated that he was using his authority as President, as Commander in Chief and such authority as the Congress had given him, to intercept international communications of \"people with known links to al Qaeda and related terrorist organizations\". He added that before intercepting any communications, \"the government must have information that establishes a clear link to these terrorist networks.\" He speculated that had the right communications been intercepted, perhaps the 9/11 attacks could have been prevented. He said the NSA program was re-authorized every 45 days, having at that time been reauthorized \"more than 30 times\"; it was reviewed by DOJ and NSA lawyers \"including NSA's general counsel and inspector general\", and Congress leaders had been briefed \"more than a dozen times\".\n\nIn a speech in Buffalo, New York on April 20, 2004, he said that:\n\nAnd again, during a speech at Kansas State University on January 23, 2006, President Bush mentioned the program, and added that it was \"what I would call a terrorist surveillance program\", intended to \"best ... use information to protect the American people\", and that:\n\nDuring a speech in New York on January 19, 2006 Vice President Cheney commented on the controversy, stating that a \"vital requirement in the war on terror is that we use whatever means are appropriate to try to find out the intentions of the enemy,\" that complacency towards further attack was dangerous, and that the lack of another major attack since 2001 was due to \"round the clock efforts\" and \"decisive policies\", and \"more than luck.\" He stated:\n\nIn a press conference on December 19 held by both Attorney General Gonzales and General Michael Hayden, the Principal Deputy Director for National Intelligence, General Hayden claimed, \"This program has been successful in detecting and preventing attacks inside the United States.\" He stated that even an emergency authorization under FISA required marshaling arguments and \"looping paperwork around\". Hayden implied that decisions on whom to intercept under the wiretapping program were being made on the spot by a shift supervisor and another person, but refused to discuss details of the specific requirements for speed.\n\nBeginning in mid-January 2006 public discussion increased on the legality of the terrorist surveillance program.\n\nDOJ sent a 42-page white paper to Congress on January 19, 2006 stating the grounds upon which it was felt the NSA program was legal, which restated and elaborated on reasoning Gonzales used at the December press conference. Gonzales spoke again on January 24, claiming that Congress had given the President the authority to order surveillance without going through the courts, and that normal procedures to order surveillance were too slow and cumbersome.\n\nGeneral Hayden stressed the NSA's respect for the Fourth Amendment, stating at the National Press Club on January 23, 2006, \"Had this program been in effect prior to 9/11, it is my professional judgment that we would have detected some of the 9/11 al Qaeda operatives in the United States, and we would have identified them as such.\"\n\nIn a speech on January 25, 2006, President Bush said, \"I have the authority, both from the Constitution and the Congress, to undertake this vital program,\" telling the House Republican Caucus at their February 10 conference in Maryland that \"I wake up every morning thinking about a future attack, and therefore, a lot of my thinking, and a lot of the decisions I make are based upon the attack that hurt us.\"\n\nPresident Bush reacted to a May 10 domestic call records article by restating his position, that it is \"not mining or trolling through the personal lives of millions of innocent Americans\".\n\nThree days after news broke about the NSA program, a bipartisan group of Senators—Democrats Dianne Feinstein, Carl Levin, Ron Wyden and Republicans Chuck Hagel and Olympia Snowe, wrote to the Judiciary and Intelligence Committee chairs and ranking members requesting the two committees to \"seek to answer the factual and legal questions\" about the program.\n\nOn January 20, 2006, in response to the administration's asserted claim to base the NSA program in part on the AUMF, Senators Leahy and Kennedy introduced Senate Resolution 350 that purported to express a \"sense of the Senate\" that the AUMF \"does not authorize warrantless domestic surveillance of United States citizens\". It was not reported out of committee.\n\nIn introducing their resolution to committee, they quoted Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor's opinion that even war \"is not a blank check for the President when it comes to the rights of the Nation's citizens\".\n\nAdditionally, they asserted that the DOJ legal justification was a \"manipulation of the law\" similar to other \"overreaching\" and \"twisted interpretations\" in recent times. Leahy and Kennedy also asserted that Gonzales had \"admitted\" at a press conference on December 19, 2005, that the Administration did not seek to amend FISA to authorize the NSA spying program because it was advised that \"it was not something we could likely get.\" (However, as noted below under \"Proposed Amendments to FISA\", Gonzales made clear that what he actually said was that such an amendment was \"not something [they] could likely get\" without disclosing the nature of the program and operational limitations and that it was believed that such disclosure would be damaging to national security.)\n\nLeahy and Kennedy asserted that the procedures adopted for the NSA program, specifically the 45-day reapproval cycle was \"not good enough\" because the review group were executive branch appointees. Finally, they concluded that Congressional and Judicial oversight were fundamental and should not be unilaterally discarded.\n\nIn February 2008, the Bush administration backed a new version of FISA that would grant telecom companies retroactive immunity from lawsuits stemming from surveillance. On March 14, the House passed a bill that did not grant such immunity.\n\nEdward Snowden copied and leaked thousands of classified NSA documents to journalists. The information revealed the access of some federal agencies to the public's online identity and led to wider use anonymizing technologies. In late 2013, soon after Snowden’s leaks, it was loosely calculated that encrypted browsing software, such as Tor, I2P and Freenet had “combined to more than double in size… and approximately 1,050,000 total machines ‘legitimately’ use the networks on a daily basis, amounting to an anonymous population that is about 0.011 percent of all machines currently connected to the Internet.” Given that these tools are designed to protect the identity and privacy of their users, an exact calculation of the growth of the anonymous population cannot be accurately rendered, but all estimates predict rapid growth.\n\nThese networks were accused of supporting illegal activity. They can be used for the illicit trade of drugs, guns and pornography. However, Tor executive director Roger Dingledine claimed that the “hidden services” represent only 2 percent of total traffic on Tor’s network. This fact suggests that the large majority of those who use it do so in order to protect their normal browsing activity, an effort to protect their personal values of privacy rather than to participate in illegal activity.\n\nPolls analyzed the trade-off between security and liberty. A June 2015 poll conducted by Gallup asked participants if the US should take all the necessary steps to prevent terrorist attacks even if civil liberties are violated. 30% of respondents agreed: 65% instead said take steps, but do not violate civil liberties.\n\nIn a 2004 Pew poll, 60% of respondents rejected the idea of sacrificing privacy and freedom in the name of security. By 2014 a similar Pew poll found that 74% of respondents preferred privacy, while 22% said the opposite. Pew noted that post 9/11 surveys revealed that in the periods during which prominent incidents that related to privacy and security first came up, the majority of respondents favored an ideology of “security first\", while maintaining that a dramatic reduction in civil liberties should be avoided. Events often caused Americans to back allow government to investigate suspected terrorists more effectively, even if those steps might infringe on the privacy of ordinary citizens. The majority of respondents reject steps that translate into extreme intrusion into their lives.\n\nVarious administrations claimed that reducing privacy protections reduces obstacles that anti-terrorism agencies face attempting to foil terrorist attacks and that fewer privacy protections makes it more difficult for terrorist groups to operate.\n\n"}
{"id": "13886968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13886968", "title": "Neil Landau", "text": "Neil Landau\n\nNeil Landau is an American screenwriter, playwright, producer, and director. His film and television credits include the teen comedy \"Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead\", \"Melrose Place\", \"The Magnificent Seven\", \"Doogie Howser, M.D.\", \"The Secret World of Alex Mack\" and MTV's \"Undressed\".\n\nNeil has also worked internationally as both co-head-writer and executive script consultant on television and film projects for Sony Pictures Television International (in Russia), Freemantle Media (in Australia), and Intereconomia (in Spain).\n\nHe has developed numerous one-hour drama TV pilots for several studios and networks including Warner Bros., Touchstone, CBS, ABC Family, and Lifetime, and has written movies for Universal Pictures, Disney, Columbia Pictures, and 20th Century Fox.\n\nHe rewrote \"Tad, The Lost Explorer\", an animated feature based on the popular “Tadeo Jones” comic books for El Toro and Paramount. He would then help write the sequel. He also worked as executive script consultant on the El Toro-produced film \"Lope\", which was short-listed for an Academy Award as Best Foreign Film. He acted as executive script consultant for the El Toro/Universal Pictures film \"Bruc, the Manhunt\" in 2010.\n\nNeil recently served as Executive Vice-President of Scripted Development for Amedia Film Group located in Moscow (Russia), working with writers, creative producers, story editors, and studio executives, guiding a slate of original projects including feature films, animation, miniseries, made-for-television movies, one-hour drama series, situation comedies, soap operas, and historical docudramas.\n\nNeil teaches in the MFA in Screenwriting and Producing Programs at both UCLA School of Film & Television and USC School of Cinematic Arts. He is also a faculty advisor in the MFA in Writing Program at Goddard College.\n\nHe has authored several books on film and television. His first book, \"101 Things I Learned in Film School\" (Grand Central Publishing), was published in May 2010. He is also a contributor to the anthology \"WriteNow! Screenwriting\" (Tarcher/Penguin); published in September 2010. He then wrote \"The Screenwriter's Roadmap\" in 2012, followed by \"The TV Showrunner’s Roadmap\" in 2014. This was followed by \"TV Outside the Box\" in 2016, and \"TV Writing On Demand: Creating Great Content in the Digital Era\" in 2018.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1769051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1769051", "title": "Online book", "text": "Online book\n\nAn online book is a resource in book-like form that is only available to read on the Internet. It differs from the common idea of an e-book, which is usually available for users to download and read locally on a computer, smartphone or on an e-reader. \"Book-like\" means: information is presented in a page format; pages are normally available to read sequentially (though \"flipping\" to another page is possible using a mouse, keyboard or other controllers); and pages are read passively, with little or no interaction or multimedia. This contrasts with a text which a user is reading on an interactive Web 2.0 website, which usually enables the user to click on online links, look up words or keywords online, etc. \"Online\" means the content may only be read while the reader is connected to the Internet. Thus the reader's experience with an online book is similar to reading a printed book, except that the book is read at a computer and is only accessible while the reader is online. \n\nOnline books are a common resource in virtual learning environments (VLEs). For example, the Moodle VLE defines an online book in this way. Over the last few years, there has been an increase of online books that are being used for notable events or to commemorate the memory of someone. The fundraising industry often uses online books as a way to fundraise, as online books are also a way to collect donations and engage with their audience.\n\n"}
{"id": "1133408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1133408", "title": "Pornography by region", "text": "Pornography by region\n\nThe production and distribution of pornographic films are both activities that are lawful in many, but by no means all, countries so long as the pornography features performers aged above a certain age, usually eighteen years. Further restrictions are often placed on such material.\n\nThe possession of \"Indecent and obscene material such as pornographic books, magazines, films, videos, DVDs and software\" is prohibited in Botswana. Possession or import of such material is illegal and punishable by a fine or up to 4 years' imprisonment.\n\nIn Egypt, it is illegal to distribute pornography. The possession and import of pornography are offences. Unlike numerous African nations which have no laws against child pornography, Egypt blocks child pornography websites and dealing in child pornography carries a minimum sentence of five years and fines of US$29,000. In 2009 Egypt's Administrative Court ruled that internet pornography should be banned, describing it as \"venomous and vile\". In 2012 the country's Prosecutor General ordered government ministries to block the websites, and the Administrative Court repeated its order for the Cabinet to block pornographic websites in 2015. However, the cost of blocking large numbers of pornographic websites has prevented the full implementation of the court's ruling. Egypt has the highest viewing figures for pornography in the Middle East according to a survey of access to Pornhub.\n\nAll forms of pornography is illegal in Ethiopia, its production in that country is rare. The legal status of Internet pornography in Ethiopia is uncertain.\n\nIn 2004, Morocco introduced severe punishment for promoting pornography. Producing pornography of any kind is illegal in Morocco. However, it does not apply much on Internet pornography; porn websites are widely accessible in Morocco.\n\nNigeria has no national laws prohibiting pornography, although the public display of graphic sexual material is illegal in Lagos. The country has a small indigenous pornography industry which produces exclusively heterosexual pornography as homosexual activity in Nigeria is illegal. Some Muslim politicians in the national government have proposed a nationwide block on pornographic websites. There is significant piracy of pornography in Nigeria, with pirated pornographic DVDs being sold from roadside stalls in Lagos. Pornography is also sold in Nigerian sex shops and some pornographic magazines are produced in the country, often reproducing pictures from foreign magazines. The first officially acknowledged hardcore pornographic film produced in Nigeria was \"Better Lover Valentine Sex Party\". It was not submitted to the National Film and Video Censors Board for classification and it was immediately banned on the grounds of obscenity and immorality. Internet pornography is widely viewed in Nigeria. In 2015 the monthly average for the number of searches for pornography was 135,000, and in December 2014 and 2015 the proportion of searches for pornography (relative to other searches) was higher in Nigeria than in the United States. In 2013 Nigeria ranked second globally for Internet searches for gay pornography.\n\nPornography rated X18 is permitted by the law only if sold to persons over the age of 18 in registered stores. It is an offense to host a pornographic web site in South Africa because of the difficulty of age-verification and the requirement that pornography only be distributed from designated, licensed physical premises. It is also unlawful to visually represent bestiality (also rated XX), but not in text descriptions. Supplying violent pornography is an offence in any form, but the law allows the production of pornography that is not prohibited.\n\nDistribution of pornography is regulated by the Films and Publications Act of 1996 which is enforced by the Films and Publications Board.\n\nPornography is prohibited in Sudan and the laws are strict. Pornographic websites are blocked by the government, pornography is largely inaccessible, and porn possession, production, distribution and sale can lead to fines, prison or corporal punishment.\n\nPornographic DVDs have in the past been sold on the streets in Uganda. However, an Anti-Pornography Act (popularly known as the \"Anti-Miniskirt Law\") was signed into law in 2014 with the stated objectives of defining what constitutes the offence of pornography and establishing a Pornography Control Committee. The Committee is responsible for the implementation of the law and for taking measures to detect, prohibit, collect and destroy pornographic materials. The law broadly defines pornography as \"any representation of the sexual parts of a person for primarily sexual excitement\". The law says that \"a person shall not produce, traffic in, publish, broadcast, procure, import, export, sell or abet any form of pornography\". Breaches of the law are punishable with up to ten years in jail. Prior to the passing of the act there were a number of laws concerning aspects of pornography in Uganda, but this was the first law to create a specific offence of pornography. The law repeals and replaces Section 166 of the Penal Code Act, widening the legal interpretation of pornography and prohibiting it comprehensively. The law has been subject to challenge in the Constitutional Court on the basis of its vague wording and the broad powers of the committee. In 2015 Ugandan pop singer Jemimah Kansiime was charged under the law for appearing in a music video.\n\nBy passing \"Pornography Control Act, 2012\" Bangladesh government has prohibited carrying, exchanging, using, selling, marketing, distributing, preserving, filming etc. of pornography (Sexually explicit materials, unless it has artistic and/or educational value). Penalties include a maximum of 10 years in prison and fines up to Tk.500,000/(USD 6,410). Most of the pornographic websites are blocked by the government.\n\nIt is illegal to sell or distribute pornography in China, but it is not illegal to own or to watch it. Google, Yahoo, YouTube and other websites do not allow users in China to perform searches related to sex. Pornographic material in China comes from Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, or Japan.\n\nHong Kong is the primary source of Chinese-language erotica.\n\nPornographic films in Hong Kong are referred to as Category III films, after the territory's motion picture rating system. Category III films would generally be considered softcore by American and Japanese standards, often featuring more elaborate and comical plots than foreign equivalents. In the early 21st century many of the roles involving sex scenes are actually performed by Japanese actresses, with any dialogue dubbed into Chinese, rather than by Chinese women.\n\nHardcore pornographic videos and films, in both physical and digital forms, can be legally sold in the territory.\n\nThe possession and viewing of pornography by an adult in a private residence is legal in India. In July 2015 the Supreme Court of India ruled against the blocking of pornographic websites. In August 2015 the Government of India issued an order to Indian ISPs to block at least 857 websites that it considered pornographic but the order was quickly lifted following widespread objections. Child pornography in electronic form is illegal in India under section 67B of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and in February 2016 the Supreme Court asked the Indian Government to suggest ways of banning all forms of child pornography. The making and distribution of pornography is illegal in India.\n\nPornography is legal in Japan; however, there are restrictions. Pubic hair and genitalia must be pixelated or censored and all participants must 18 years of age or older.\n\nPornography in Lebanon is illegal and is subject to several legal provisions, but it's considered legal to access pornographic websites for personal use only.\n\nBoth domestic and imported works of pornography have been available in North Korea since recent decades. Producing, distributing, importing and watching pornography is prohibited.\n\nPossession of pornography became widespread among elites during the late 1990s. Political and army elites are the most active consumers of pornography. Locally produced pornography initially appeared during the reign of Kim Jong-il. A typical North Korean-made pornographic film involves nude or scantily clad women dancing with music.\n\nImporting pornography to North Korea is harshly punished. Pornography is sold openly on the China–North Korea border regardless of regulations. Despite attempts to curtail circulation of imported pornography, most of the pornography watched in North Korea is currently made abroad. A significant part of pornographic media in circulation consists of Chinese bootleg recordings of poor quality.\n\nThere is no access to foreign pornographic websites from within North Korea.\n\nNorth Korea has ratified the Optional Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, there are currently no specific laws to combat child pornography.\n\nPornography is banned by the government in South Korea, with laws strictly enforced. The distribution, sale or display of obscene materials via the Internet can be punished with up to two years' imprisonment, although there is no penalty for watching or possessing Internet pornography. The exception is child pornography, the possession of which carries a maximum one-year prison sentence, and the maximum sentence for distributing, selling or displaying it for commercial purposes is ten years. Many foreign pornographic websites are blocked, and those found to be operating from within the country are shut down. The Korea Internet Safety Commission is responsible for instructing Internet service providers to block access to \"pornography and nudity\". Google Search in South Korea filters search results for around 700 terms considered by the government to be adult in nature unless the user demonstrates that they are aged over 19.\n\nPornography in Pakistan is illegal and is subject to several legal provisions. The Government has put a 100% ban on internet website containing such material since November 2011. The list of banned pornographic websites is updated on an ongoing basis.\n\nThe Philippine penal code prohibits the production and distribution of obscene publications. There is a ban on pornography, but the law enforcement is relaxed and doesn't enforce the prohibition. Pornographic movies are available on Philippine cable television. Since 2014 there was a little local production.\n\nSome ISPs in the Philippines have blocked access to pornographic websites since January 2017, due to the Republic Act 9775 or the Anti-Child Pornography Law.\n\nItems considered pornographic by Saudi Arabian standards are forbidden in the country. Customs authorities enforce strict regulations concerning the importation of pornographic items into Saudi Arabia. Such items may be confiscated on arrival and the owner may be subject to a fine. Accessing pornographic websites can lead to imprisonment, fine, deportation or any other severe punishment by the government.\n\nPornography in Syria is illegal and is subject to several legal provisions. The Syrian government began blocking pornography sites in late 2017.\n\nEven though the legal status of pornography in Turkmenistan is unknown, a law, passed on 1 January 2015, banning citizens to access pornography on the internet suggests that pornography may be illegal in Turkmenistan.\n\nEuropean hardcore pornography is dominated by a few pan-European producers and distributors, the most notable of which is the Private Media Group. Most European countries also have local pornography producers, from Portugal (\"Naturalvideo\") to Romania (\"Floyd-Agency\"), all of which compete with larger, international organizations with varying levels of success.\n\nMany U.S.-based pornography websites distribute European pornography as a genre. These actresses (often advertised as \"Eurobabes\") may conform more to a look usually seen in U.S. actresses than European ones, although they may still be considered to look \"more natural\". European pornography typically de-emphasizes breast implants, among other aesthetic factors.\n\nProduction, dissemination and assembly of pornography is banned, with laws strictly enforced. Breaking the law is punishable with up to four years in prison.\n\nIn France, pornography is overall permitted, but with distinctions: \n\nThe ratings system has caused controversy; e.g., in 2000 the sexually explicit and violent film \"Baise-moi\" was initially rated only as \"restricted\" by the French government. This classification was overturned by a \"Conseil d'État\" ruling in a lawsuit brought by associations supporting Christian and family values.\n\nSome movies are forbidden to minors under 18, without the X rating, like \"Baise-moi\", \"Ken Park\" or \"Saw 3\", so that these movies can be viewed in theaters and not attract VAT.\n\nThe constitution and law are very strict about hardcore pornography, especially when compared to very liberal laws about softcore pornography, prostitution and sex shops. Supplying hardcore pornography to people who are less than 18 years old is an offence, and shops selling it must keep people under the age of 18 from entering their premises. If only a part of the shop is dedicated to pornography, it must be completely closed off from the rest of the premises. Alternatively, shops may choose not to display their goods or advertise that they sell them, in which case minors may be admitted. Websites hosting pornographic material within Germany must comply with very strict rules about verifying that viewers are over 18.\n\nSoft porn is less restricted, and may even be broadcast on TV at night. The age threshold is usually FSK-16. In contrast many uncut action films or video games easily reach the FSK-18 rating.\n\nIn Hungary, pornography is unlawful if sold or shown to children under 18 years of age. Displaying the genitals openly, as on the cover of a magazine, is not prohibited.\n\nThe production or sale of pornography is prohibited in Iceland. Heavy fines were applied in 2001 and ten years earlier a fine was applied to the first manager of the first private TV-station (and the only case to present) in Iceland for showing the Danish \"mainstream\" Zodiac-films, \"I Tvillingernes tegn\" and \"I Tyrens tegn\". In early 2013 there was a draft proposal by Ögmundur Jónasson, the Minister of the Interior, to extend the ban to online pornography to protect children from violent sexual imagery. The plan has been stalled since the change in government during the parliamentary election on 27 April 2013. Since then, there have been no changes to the relevant legislation, and no changes have been formally proposed.\n\nIn Italy, it is illegal to distribute pictorial or video pornography to persons under the age of 18. However, persons over 18 years of age are permitted to view pornographic material.\n\nAccording to Russian law, consumption of pornography is allowed though the production of it is not. The illegal production, distribution, and \"public demonstration\" of pornography is punishable by a 2- to 6-year prison term. Roskomnadzor, the Russian government's media overseer, has the power to order the blocking of pornographic websites. In 2015 the agency required the blocking of the Russian-language version of Pornhub and 10 other pornographic sites on the basis of a court ruling.\n\nThere is nevertheless some uncertainty concerning the legal status of pornography in Russia. The law criminalizes only the 'illegal' production and selling of pornography (which implies that it sometimes can be legal), but two circumstances make enforcement of the law difficult: (1) the lack of a legal definition of pornography, and (2) no law defining when production or selling is permitted.\n\nPornographic production, distribution, broadcasting (both audio and video), transportation, import and advertisement is forbidden by law in Ukraine.\n\nIn England and Wales, the main legislation on pornographic materials is the Obscene Publications Act 1959, the Obscene Publications Act 1964, and the Indecent Displays (Control) Act 1981. Video-oriented depictions of hardcore material (with certain exceptions for works considered primarily 'artistic' rather than pornographic) were banned until 1999, when the removal of trade barriers with other European Union member states allowed for the relatively free movement of such goods for personal use. R18-rated videos are only available in licensed sex shops, but hardcore pornographic magazines are available in shops selling newspapers and magazines. In 2008, the Crown Prosecution Service unsuccessfully prosecuted a man under the Obscene Publications Act (the \"R v Walker\" trial) for a textual story on a pornography website involving Girls Aloud. Also that year, the Home Office introduced legislation to criminalize possession of what it has labelled extreme pornography; these laws are now contained in sections 63 to 68 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008.\n\nThe Bahamian penal code prohibits the production and distribution of obscene publications. Many types of pornography are prohibited in the Bahamas; however, law enforcement is relaxed and does not usually enforce the prohibition. Pornography is available on Bahamian cable television and in 2014 ZNS-TV broadcast a report on the establishment of a local pornography industry in the Bahamas.\n\nThe laws of Canada permit the sale of hardcore pornography to anyone over the age of eighteen. While persons below that age may have pornography in their possession, its sale to them is prohibited.\n\nMost hardcore pornography is sold in adult stores or on adult websites.\n\nPornography was illegal in Cuba during Fidel Castro's leadership of the country, but the laws were relaxed in the 2010s. However, many pornographic websites are still blocked in Cuba.\n\nPornography is legal in Jamaica for adults over 18. But age verifications for buying porn or any sex-related products are relatively lax. The Jamaican government is planning to block Internet child pornography.\n\nFrom early on in the 20th century Mexico was known for producing a lot of films with full female nudity and softcore pornographic scenes.\n\nIn the United States, pornography is not unlawful at the federal level, but is subject to the \"Miller\" test, which was developed in the 1973 case \"Miller v. California\". The Miller test was an effort to differentiate between pornography and 'obscenity.' It has three parts:\n\n\nPornography is a large industry that involves major entertainment companies, which offer pornography films through cable channels and in-room movies in hotels. Pornography distribution changed radically during the 1980s, with VHS and cable television largely displacing X-rated theaters. VHS distribution, in turn, has been replaced by DVD and Internet distribution for niche markets. Pornography generates billions of dollars in sales in the United States alone. An estimated 211 new pornographic films are made every week in the United States.\n\nIn Australia, possession of pornographic material is permitted. However, it is illegal to sell, exhibit or rent X-rated pornographic material in most states of Australia, including Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales, Tasmania, and Queensland. In contrast, it is legal to sell, exhibit, or rent X-rated pornographic material in some territories including the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. As the Australian constitution prohibits states from regulating interstate commerce, the law permits the purchase of pornography from stores in either territory and also bringing it interstate. This means that the majority of Australian mail-order operations for adult material operate from the ACT. Despite the offenses under state laws, stores selling X-rated material are abundant in major cities, advertising openly, as these laws are rarely enforced.\n\nRatings for the X18+ category were tightened in 2000 to ban material featuring some fetishes or which appeared to include minors. In 2007 the Northern Territory National Emergency Response introduced by the Howard Government made the possession of RC and X18+ pornography an offence in some Aboriginal communities.\n\nIn New Zealand, pornography is generally treated in a liberal manner and very little is banned by the Office of Film and Literature Classification. However, the most extreme forms of pornography (such as child pornography, rape, incest and bestiality) are classified as objectionable material by the OFLC, effectively banning them.\n\nIn Papua New Guinea, the possession, import, export, and sale of pornography are all offenses. Control is strict. According to the government, all websites containing pornography, nudity or depictions of sex are blocked and the government has been blocking such sites since early 2009. Under the law, persons who possess, own, import, export, sell or exhibit pornography to the public are subject to arrest and trial and can face up to 6 months' imprisonment and/or a fine up to 50,000 to 100,000 Papua New Guinean kina. In PNG, pornography is subject to legal restraints to publication on grounds of obscenity. Laws relating to pornography in Papua New Guinea are vague. The main legislation used in dealing with cases relating to pornographic nature refer back to the Chapter 262 Criminal Code of Papua New Guinea, Lukautim Pikinini Act 2009, Classification of Publication Censorship Act 1989 and the National ICT Act, 2009. Improper Use of ICT Services.\n\nArgentina is emerging as another source for transsexual pornography, with several titles already produced by major American companies (e.g., Anabolic Video). Argentina is also widely used to shoot pornographic clips straight for the Internet, as well as for photoshoots. Films shot in Argentina typically have the male performers wearing condoms.\n\nIn Brazil, pornographic film actors must be 18 or older. Pornography which does not involve bestiality is legal when sold in public places. Depiction of sex with animals is legal. However, magazine and DVD covers that depict genitalia must not be visible from public view, and pornography can only be sold to people 18 or older.\n\nIn Guyana, it is illegal to sell or possess pornography. Distribution, possession, sale, and importation of pornographic magazines, DVDs, books, photographs, etc. or simply browsing for pornographic websites on the Internet can lead to a variety of punishments ranging from community service, a fine of up to 45,000 Guyana dollars, up to 2 years in prison, or corporal punishment.\n\n"}
{"id": "16054287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16054287", "title": "Počitelj, Čapljina", "text": "Počitelj, Čapljina\n\nPočitelj is a village in the Čapljina municipality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is located in the Herzegovina-Neretva Canton in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The historic site of Počitelj is located on the left bank of the river Neretva, on the main Mostar to Metković road, and it is about 30 km to the south of Mostar.\n\nThe village is built in a natural karst amphiteatre along the Neretva river. The walled town of Počitelj evolved in the period from the 16th to the 18th centuries. Architecturally, the stone-constructed parts of the town are a fortified complex, in which two stages of evolution are evident: medieval, and Ottoman.\n\nThe first recorded reference to Počitelj dates from 1444, in charters by King Alfonso V of Aragon and in 1448 by Frederick III, Holy Roman Emperor. In the period between 1463-1471 the town housed a Hungarian garrison and was fortified into a strategic defence stronghold. In 1471, following a brief siege, the town was conquered by the Ottomans. It lost its strategic significance. It remained within the Ottoman Empire until 1878. From 1782 to 1879 Počitelj was the seat of a\"kadiluk\" (area under the jurisdiction of a qadi, or judge) and the center of the Počitelj military district from 1713 to 1835.\n\nThe significance and the town's appearance has altered during the course of its history. As far as the development of Počitelj goes, three significant periods can be distinguished: \n\nAfter the establishment of Austro-Hungarian rule in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1878, Počitelj lost its strategic importance and started deteriorating rapidly. The population declined gradually. The loss of the town's strategic role assisted in the preservation of the original urban architectural ensemble, so that the town remained in its original form to present day.\n\nThe entire historic urban site of Počitelj and surrounding area suffered extensive collateral damage during the 1992-1996 war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, it was heavily damaged by Croatian forces during the 1993 Bosnian War. Following the bombing, Počitelj's sixteenth-century master works of Islamic art and architecture were destroyed and a large part of the town's population was displaced.\n\nAs proposed by the University of York, United Kingdom, and the University of Sarajevo, Počitelj was in 1996 named by the World Monuments Watch as one of the world's 100 most endangered cultural heritage sites.\nIn the year 2000 the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Government initiated the Programme of the permanent protection of Počitelj. The programme includes the protection of cultural heritage from deterioration, restoration of damaged and destroyed buildings, encouraging the return of the refugees and displaced persons to their homes and the long-term protection and revitalization of the Počitelj's historic urban area. The Programme is on-going.\n\nAs of 2008, the International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) expressed concern over the proposed construction of a nearby highway, Corridor Vc. Initial plans include a 1,000-meter long, 100-meter high bridge over the Neretva river. It is feared that the construction will result in a “physical, visual and ecological degradation and devastation of this cultural and historical unity and its authentic surroundings.” While a new potential location for the bridge crossing is being investigated, non-controversial sections are under construction.\n\n\nNo up-to-date data currently exists for Počitelj and its demographic profile was significantly altered after the Bosnian war. The last demographics research was conducted in 1991 and its results were as follows:\n\nPopulation Total: 905\n\n\nPočitelj represents one of the few urban ensembles in Bosnia and Herzegovina that were preserved in their integrity to the present times. It was also developed through the several phases of the history beginning with the medieval period. Its significant strategic role from the 13th to 17th century gave its inhabitants the power to build one of the most important, and best preserved ensembles within the city walls in the region. \nThe town can be compared with some of the noted world heritage sites as the old towns of Mostar (Bosnia and Herzegovina), Ohrid (Republic of Macedonia), Safranbolu (Turkey), Gjirokaster (Albania). Počitelj's layout and use of building materials put it into the group of Ottoman-Mediterranean types of small settlements.\n"}
{"id": "1287559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1287559", "title": "Privacy laws of the United States", "text": "Privacy laws of the United States\n\nThe privacy laws of the United States deal with several different legal concepts. One is the \"invasion of privacy\", a tort based in common law allowing an aggrieved party to bring a lawsuit against an individual who unlawfully intrudes into his or her private affairs, discloses his or her private information, publicizes him or her in a false light, or appropriates his or her name for personal gain. Public figures have less privacy, and this is an evolving area of law as it relates to the media.\n\nThe essence of the law derives from a \"right to privacy\", defined broadly as \"the right to be let alone.\" It usually excludes personal matters or activities which may reasonably be of public interest, like those of celebrities or participants in newsworthy events. Invasion of the right to privacy can be the basis for a lawsuit for damages against the person or entity violating the right. These include the Fourth Amendment right to be free of unwarranted search or seizure, the First Amendment right to free assembly, and the Fourteenth Amendment due process right, recognized by the Supreme Court as protecting a general right to privacy within family, marriage, motherhood, procreation, and child rearing.\n\nAttempts to improve consumer privacy protections in the US in the wake of the May–July 2017 Equifax data breach, which affected 145.5 million US consumers, failed to pass in Congress.\n\nThe early years in the development of privacy rights began with English common law which protected \"only the physical interference of life and property\". The Castle doctrine analogizes a person's home to his or her castle – a site that is private and should not be accessible without permission of the owner. The development of tort remedies by the common law is \"one of the most significant chapters in the history of privacy law\". Those rights expanded to include a \"recognition of man's spiritual nature, of his feelings and his intellect.\" Eventually, the scope of those rights broadened even further to include a basic \"right to be let alone,\" and the former definition of \"property\" would then comprise \"every form of possession – intangible, as well as tangible.\" By the late 19th century, interest in privacy grew as a result of the growth of print media, especially newspapers.\n\nBetween 1850 and 1890, U.S. newspaper circulation grew by 1,000 percent—from 100 papers with 800,000 readers to 900 papers with more than 8 million readers. In addition, newspaper journalism became more sensationalized, and was termed yellow journalism. The growth of industrialism led to rapid advances in technology, including the handheld camera, as opposed to earlier studio cameras, which were much heavier and larger. In 1884, Eastman Kodak company introduced their Kodak Brownie, and it became a mass market camera by 1901, cheap enough for the general public. This allowed people and journalists to take candid snapshots in public places for the first time.\n\nSamuel D. Warren and Louis D. Brandeis, partners in a new law firm, feared that this new small camera technology would be used by the \"sensationalistic press.\" Seeing this becoming a likely challenge to individual privacy rights, they wrote the \"pathbreaking\" \"Harvard Law Review\" article in 1890, \"The Right to Privacy\". According to legal scholar Roscoe Pound, the article did \"nothing less than add a chapter to our law\", and in 1966 legal textbook author, Harry Kalven, hailed it as the \"most influential law review article of all\". In the Supreme Court case of \"Kyllo v. United States\", 533 U.S. 27 (2001), the article was cited by a majority of justices, both those concurring and those dissenting.\n\nThe development of the doctrine regarding the tort of \"invasion of privacy\" was largely spurred by the Warren and Brandeis article, \"The Right to Privacy\". In it, they explain why they wrote the article in its introduction: \"Political, social, and economic changes entail the recognition of new rights, and the common law, in its eternal youth, grows to meet the demands of society\". More specifically, they also shift their focus on newspapers:\n\nThe press is overstepping in every direction the obvious bounds of propriety and of decency. Gossip is no longer the resource of the idle and of the vicious, but has become a trade, which is pursued with industry as well as effrontery. To satisfy a prurient taste the details of sexual relations are spread broadcast in the columns of the daily papers...The intensity and complexity of life, attendant upon advancing civilization, have rendered necessary some retreat from the world, and man, under the refining influence of culture, has become more sensitive to publicity, so that solitude and privacy have become more essential to the individual; but modern enterprise and invention have, through invasions upon his privacy, subjected him to mental pain and distress, far greater than could be inflicted by mere bodily injury.\n\nThey then clarify their goals: \"It is our purpose to consider whether the existing law affords a principle which can properly be invoked to protect the privacy of the individual; and, if it does, what the nature and extent of such protection is\".\n\nWarren and Brandeis write that privacy rights should protect both businesses and private individuals. They describe rights in trade secrets and unpublished literary materials, regardless whether those rights are invaded intentionally or unintentionally, and without regard to any value they may have. For private individuals, they try to define how to protect \"thoughts, sentiments, and emotions, expressed through the medium of writing or of the arts\". They describe such things as personal diaries and letters needing protection, and how that should be done: \"Thus, the courts, in searching for some principle upon which the publication of private letters could be enjoined, naturally came upon the ideas of a breach of confidence, and of an implied contract\". They also define this as a breach of trust, where a person has trusted that another will not publish their personal writings, photographs, or artwork, without their permission, including any \"facts relating to his private life, which he has seen fit to keep private\". And recognizing that technological advances will become more relevant, they write: \"Now that modern devices afford abundant opportunities for the perpetration of such wrongs without any participation by the injured party, the protection granted by the law must be placed upon a broader foundation\".\n\nIn the United States today, \"invasion of privacy\" is a commonly used cause of action in legal pleadings. Modern tort law, as first categorized by William Prosser, includes four categories of invasion of privacy:\n\nIntrusion of solitude occurs where one person intrudes upon the private affairs of another. In a famous case from 1944, author Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings was sued by Zelma Cason, who was portrayed as a character in Rawlings' acclaimed memoir, \"Cross Creek\". The Florida Supreme Court held that a cause of action for invasion of privacy was supported by the facts of the case, but in a later proceeding found that there were no actual damages.\n\nIntrusion upon seclusion occurs when a perpetrator intentionally intrudes, physically, electronically, or otherwise, upon the private space, solitude, or seclusion of a person, or the private affairs or concerns of a person, by use of the perpetrator's physical senses or by electronic device or devices to oversee or overhear the person's private affairs, or by some other form of investigation, examination, or observation intrude upon a person's private matters if the intrusion would be highly offensive to a reasonable person. Hacking into someone else's computer is a type of intrusion upon privacy, as is secretly viewing or recording private information by still or video camera. In determining whether intrusion has occurred, one of three main considerations may be involved: expectation of privacy; whether there was an intrusion, invitation, or exceedance of invitation; or deception, misrepresentation, or fraud to gain admission. Intrusion is \"an information-gathering, not a publication, tort…legal wrong occurs at the time of the intrusion. No publication is necessary\".\n\nRestrictions against the invasion of privacy encompasses journalists as well:\n\nThe First Amendment has never been construed to accord newsmen immunity from torts or crimes committed during the course of newsgathering. The First Amendment is not a license to trespass, to steal, or to intrude by electronic means into the precincts of another's home or office.\n\nPublic disclosure of private facts arises where one person reveals information which is not of public concern, and the release of which would offend a reasonable person.\n\"Unlike libel or slander, truth is not a defense for invasion of privacy.\" Disclosure of private facts includes publishing or widespread dissemination of little-known, private facts that are non-newsworthy, not part of public records, public proceedings, not of public interest, and would be offensive to a reasonable person if made public.\n\nFalse light is a legal term that refers to a tort concerning privacy that is similar to the tort of defamation. For example, the privacy laws in the United States include a non-public person's right to privacy from publicity which puts them in a false light to the public. A non-public person's right to privacy from publicity is balanced against the First Amendment right of free speech.\n\nFalse light laws are \"intended primarily to protect the plaintiff's mental or emotional well-being\". If a publication of information is false, then a tort of defamation might have occurred. If that communication is not technically false but is still misleading, then a tort of false light might have occurred.\n\nThe specific elements of the Tort of false light vary considerably even among those jurisdictions which do recognize this tort. Generally, these elements consist of the following:\n\nThus in general, the doctrine of false light holds:\n\nOne who gives publicity to a matter concerning another before the public in a false light is subject to liability to the other for invasion of privacy, if (a) the false light in which the other was placed would be highly offensive to a reasonable person, and (b) the actor had knowledge of or acted in a reckless disregard as to the falsity of the publicized matter and the false light in which the other would be placed.\n\nFor this wrong, money damages may be recovered from the first person by the other.\n\nAt first glance, this may appear to be similar to defamation (libel and slander), but the basis for the harm is different, and the remedy is different in two respects. First, unlike libel and slander, no showing of actual harm or damage to the plaintiff is usually required in false light cases, and the court will determine the amount of damages. Second, being a violation of a Constitutional right of privacy, there may be no applicable statute of limitations in some jurisdictions specifying a time limit within which period a claim must be filed.\n\nConsequently, although it is infrequently invoked, in some cases false light may be a more attractive cause of action for plaintiffs than libel or slander, because the burden of proof may be less onerous.\n\nWhat does \"publicity\" mean? A newspaper of general circulation (or comparable breadth) or as few as 3–5 people who know the person harmed? Neither defamation nor false light has ever required everyone in society be informed by a harmful act, but the scope of \"publicity\" is variable. In some jurisdictions, publicity \"means that the matter is made public, by communicating it to the public at large, or to so many persons that the matter must be regarded as substantially certain to become one of public knowledge.\"\n\nMoreover, the standards of behavior governing employees of government institutions subject to a state or national Administrative Procedure Act (as in the United States) are often more demanding than those governing employees of private or business institutions like newspapers. A person acting in an official capacity for a government agency may find that their statements are not indemnified by the principle of agency, leaving them personally liable for any damages.\n\nExample: If someone's reputation was portrayed in a false light during a personnel performance evaluation in a government agency or public university, one might be wronged if only a small number initially learned of it, or if adverse recommendations were made to only a few superiors (by a peer committee to department chair, dean, dean's advisory committee, provost, president, etc.). Settled cases suggest false light may not be effective in private school personnel cases, but they may be distinguishable from cases arising in public institutions.\n\nAlthough privacy is often a common-law tort, most states have enacted statutes that prohibit the use of a person's name or image if used without consent for the commercial benefit of another person. \n\nAppropriation of name or likeness occurs when a person uses the name or likeness of another person for personal gain or commercial advantage. Action for misappropriation of right of publicity protects a person against loss caused by appropriation of personal likeness for commercial exploitation. A person's exclusive rights to control his or her name and likeness to prevent others from exploiting without permission is protected in similar manner to a trademark action with the person's likeness, rather than the trademark, being the subject of the protection.\nAppropriation is the oldest recognized form of invasion of privacy involving the use of an individual's name, likeness, or identity without consent for purposes such as ads, fictional works, or products.\n\n\"The same actionappropriation —can violate either an individual's right of privacy or right of publicity. Conceptually, however, the two rights differ\".\n\nAlthough the word \"privacy\" is actually never used in the text of the United States Constitution, there are Constitutional limits to the government's intrusion into individuals' right to privacy. This is true even when pursuing a public purpose such as exercising police powers or passing legislation. The Constitution, however, only protects against state actors. Invasions of privacy by individuals can only be remedied under previous court decisions.\n\nThe Fourth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States ensures that \"the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized\".\n\nThe First Amendment protects the right to free assembly, broadening privacy rights. Some believe that the Ninth Amendment declares that the fact that a right is not explicitly mentioned in the Constitution does not mean that the government can infringe on that right. The Supreme Court recognized the Fourteenth Amendment as providing a substantive due process right to privacy. This was first recognized by several Supreme Court Justices in \"Griswold v. Connecticut\", a 1965 decision protecting a married couple's rights to contraception. It was recognized again in 1973 \"Roe v. Wade\", which invoked the right to privacy to protect a woman's right to an abortion, and in the 2003 with \"Lawrence v. Texas\", which invoked the right to privacy regarding the sexual practices of same-sex couples.\n\nOn August 22, 1972 the Alaska Right of Privacy Amendment, Amendment 3, was approved with 86% of the vote in support of the legislatively referred constitutional amendment. Article I, Section 22 of Alaska's constitution states, \"The right of the people to privacy is recognized and shall not be infringed. The legislature shall implement this section.\"\n\nArticle 1, §1 of the California Constitution articulates privacy as an inalienable right. \n\nCA SB 1386 expands on privacy law and guarantees that if a company exposes a Californian's sensitive information this exposure must be reported to the citizen. This law has inspired many states to come up with similar measures.\n\nCalifornia's \"Shine the Light\" law (SB 27, CA Civil Code § 1798.83), operative on January 1, 2005, outlines specific rules regarding how and when a business must disclose use of a customer's personal information and imposes civil damages for violation of the law.\n\nCalifornia's Reader Privacy Act was passed into law in 2011. The law prohibits a commercial provider of a book service, as defined, from disclosing, or being compelled to disclose, any personal information relating to a user of the book service, subject to certain exceptions. The bill would require a provider to disclose personal information of a user only if a court order has been issued, as specified, and certain other conditions have been satisfied. The bill would impose civil penalties on a provider of a book service for knowingly disclosing a user's personal information to a government entity in violation of these provisions. This law is applicable to electronic books in addition to print books.\n\nArticle I, §23 of the Florida Constitution states that \"Every natural person has the right to be let alone and free from governmental intrusion into the person's private life except as otherwise provided herein. This section shall not be construed to limit the public's right of access to public records and meetings as provided by law.\"\n\nArticle 2, §10 of the Montana Constitution states that \"The right of individual privacy is essential to the well-being of a free society and shall not be infringed without the showing of a compelling state interest\".\n\n\nThe right to privacy is protected also by more than 600 laws in the states and by a dozen federal laws, like those protecting health and student information, also limiting electronic surveillance.\n\nSeveral of the US Federal privacy laws have substantial \"opt-out\" requirements, requiring that the individual specifically \"opt-out\" of commercial dissemination of personally identifiable information (PII). In some cases, an entity wishing to \"share\" (disseminate) information is required to provide a notice, such as a GLBA notice or a HIPAA notice, requiring individuals to specifically Opt-out These \"opt-out\" requests may be executed either by use of forms provided by the entity collecting the data, with or without separate written requests.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30104", "title": "Problem of evil", "text": "Problem of evil\n\nThe problem of evil refers to the question of how to reconcile the existence of evil with an omnipotent, omnibenevolent and omniscient God (see theism). An argument from evil claims that because evil exists, either God does not exist or does not have all three of those properties. Attempts to show the contrary have traditionally been discussed under the heading of theodicy. Besides philosophy of religion, the problem of evil is also important to the field of theology and ethics.\n\nThe problem of evil is often formulated in two forms: the logical problem of evil and the evidential problem of evil. The logical form of the argument tries to show a logical impossibility in the coexistence of God and evil, while the evidential form tries to show that given the evil in the world, it is improbable that there is an omnipotent, omniscient, and wholly good God. The problem of evil has been extended to non-human life forms, to include animal suffering from natural evils and human cruelty against them.\n\nResponses to various versions of the problem of evil, meanwhile, come in three forms: refutations, defenses, and theodicies. A wide range of responses have been made against these arguments. There are also many discussions of evil and associated problems in other philosophical fields, such as secular ethics, and evolutionary ethics. But as usually understood, the \"problem of evil\" is posed in a theological context.\n\nThe problem of evil acutely applies to monotheistic religions such as Christianity, Islam, and Judaism that believe in a monotheistic God who is omnipotent, omniscient and omnibenevolent; but the question of \"why does evil exist?\" has also been studied in religions that are non-theistic or polytheistic, such as Buddhism, Hinduism, and Jainism.\n\nThe problem of evil refers to the challenge of reconciling belief in an omniscient, omnipotent, and omnibenevolent God, with the existence of evil and suffering in the world. The problem may be described either experientially or theoretically. The experiential problem is the difficulty in believing in a concept of a loving God when confronted by suffering or evil in the real world, such as from epidemics, or wars, or murder, or rape or terror attacks wherein innocent children, women, men or a loved one becomes a victim. The problem of evil is also a theoretical one, usually described and studied by religion scholars in two varieties: the logical problem and the evidential problem.\n\nOriginating with Greek philosopher Epicurus, the logical argument from evil is as follows:\n\n\nThis argument is of the form modus tollens, and is logically valid: If its premises are true, the conclusion follows of necessity. To show that the first premise is plausible, subsequent versions tend to expand on it, such as this modern example:\n\nBoth of these arguments are understood to be presenting two forms of the \"logical\" problem of evil. They attempt to show that the assumed propositions lead to a logical contradiction and therefore cannot all be correct. Most philosophical debate has focused on the propositions stating that God cannot exist with, or would want to prevent, all evils (premises 3 and 6), with defenders of theism (for example, Leibniz) arguing that God could very well exist with and allow evil in order to achieve a greater good.\n\nIf God lacks any one of these qualities—omniscience, omnipotence, or omnibenevolence—then the logical problem of evil can be resolved. Process theology and open theism are other positions that limit God's omnipotence and/or omniscience (as defined in traditional theology). Dystheism is the belief that God is not wholly good.\n\nThe evidential problem of evil (also referred to as the probabilistic or inductive version of the problem) seeks to show that the existence of evil, although logically consistent with the existence of God, counts against or lowers the probability of the truth of theism. As an example, a critic of Plantinga's idea of \"a mighty nonhuman spirit\" causing natural evils may concede that the existence of such a being is not logically impossible but argue that due to lacking scientific evidence for its existence this is very unlikely and thus it is an unconvincing explanation for the presence of natural evils. Both absolute versions and relative versions of the evidential problems of evil are presented below.\n\nA version by William L. Rowe:\n\nAnother by Paul Draper:\n\nThe problem of evil has also been extended beyond human suffering, to include suffering of animals from cruelty, disease and evil. One version of this problem includes animal suffering from natural evil, such as the violence and fear faced by animals from predators, natural disasters, over the history of evolution. This is also referred to as the Darwinian problem of evil, after Charles Darwin who expressed it as follows:\n\nThe second version of the problem of evil applied to animals, and avoidable suffering experienced by them, is one caused by some human beings, such as from animal cruelty or when they are shot or slaughtered. This version of the problem of evil has been used by scholars including John Hick to counter the responses and defenses to the problem of evil such as suffering being a means to perfect the morals and greater good because animals are innocent, helpless, amoral but sentient victims. Scholar Michael Almeida said this was \"perhaps the most serious and difficult\" version of the problem of evil. The problem of evil in the context of animal suffering, states Almeida, can be stated as:\n\nResponses to the problem of evil have occasionally been classified as \"defences\" or \"theodicies;\" however, authors disagree on the exact definitions. Generally, a \"defense\" against the problem of evil may refer to attempts to defuse the logical problem of evil by showing that there is no logical incompatibility between the existence of evil and the existence of God. This task does not require the identification of a plausible explanation of evil, and is successful if the explanation provided shows that the existence of God and the existence of evil are logically compatible. It need not even be true, since a false though coherent explanation would be sufficient to show logical compatibility.\n\nA \"theodicy\", on the other hand, is more ambitious, since it attempts to provide a plausible justification—a morally or philosophically sufficient reason—for the existence of evil and thereby rebut the \"evidential\" argument from evil. Richard Swinburne maintains that it does not make sense to assume there are greater goods that justify the evil's presence in the world unless we know what they are—without knowledge of what the greater goods could be, one cannot have a successful theodicy. Thus, some authors see arguments appealing to demons or the fall of man as indeed logically possible, but not very \"plausible\" given our knowledge about the world, and so see those arguments as providing defences but not good theodicies.\n\nThe above argument is set against numerous versions of the problem of evil that have been formulated. These versions have included philosophical and theological formulations.\n\nSkeptical theism defends the problem of evil by asserting that God allows an evil to happen in order to prevent a greater evil or to encourage a response that will lead to a greater good. Thus a rape or a murder of an innocent child is defended as having a God's purpose that a human being may not comprehend, but which may lead to lesser evil or greater good. This is called skeptical theism because the argument aims to encourage self-skepticism, either by trying to rationalize God's possible hidden motives, or by trying to explain it as a limitation of human ability to know. The greater good defense is more often argued in religious studies in response to the evidential version of the problem of evil, while the free will defense is usually discussed in the context of the logical version. Most scholars criticize the skeptical theism defense as \"devaluing the suffering\" and not addressing the premise that God is all-benevolent and should be able to stop all suffering and evil, rather than play a balancing act.\n\nThe omnipotence paradoxes, where evil persists in the presence of an all powerful God, raise questions as to the nature of God's omnipotence. There is the further question of how an interference would negate and subjugate the concept of free will, or in other words result in a totalitarian system that creates a lack of freedom. Some solutions propose that omnipotence does not require the ability to actualize the logically impossible. \"Greater good\" responses to the problem make use of this insight by arguing for the existence of goods of great value which God cannot actualize without also permitting evil, and thus that there are evils he cannot be expected to prevent despite being omnipotent. Among the most popular versions of the \"greater good\" response are appeals to the apologetics of free will. Theologians will argue that since no one can fully understand God's ultimate plan, no one can assume that evil actions do not have some sort of greater purpose. Therefore, they say nature of evil has a necessary role to play in God's plan for a better world.\n\nThe problem of evil is sometimes explained as a consequence of free will, an ability granted by God. Free will is both a source of good and of evil, and with free will also comes the potential for abuse, as when individuals act immorally. People with free will \"decide to cause suffering and act in other evil ways\", states Boyd, and it is they who make that choice, not God. Further, the free will argument asserts that it would be logically inconsistent for God to prevent evil by coercion and curtailing free will, because that would no longer be free will.\n\nCritics of the free will response have questioned whether it accounts for the degree of evil seen in this world. One point in this regard is that while the value of free will may be thought sufficient to counterbalance minor evils, it is less obvious that it outweighs the negative attributes of evils such as rape and murder. Particularly egregious cases known as horrendous evils, which \"[constitute] prima facie reason to doubt whether the participant’s life could (given their inclusion in it) be a great good to him/her on the whole,\" have been the focus of recent work in the problem of evil. Another point is that those actions of free beings which bring about evil very often diminish the freedom of those who suffer the evil; for example the murder of a young child prevents the child from ever exercising their free will. In such a case the freedom of an innocent child is pitted against the freedom of the evil-doer, it is not clear why God would remain unresponsive and passive.\n\nAnother criticism is that the potential for evil inherent in free will may be limited by means which do not impinge on that free will. God could accomplish this by making moral actions especially pleasurable, or evil action and suffering impossible by allowing free will but not allowing the ability to enact evil or impose suffering. Supporters of the free will explanation state that that would no longer be free will. Critics respond that this view seems to imply it would be similarly wrong to try to reduce suffering and evil in these ways, a position which few would advocate.\n\nA third challenge to the free will defence is natural evil, which is the result of natural causes (e.g. a child suffering from a disease, mass casualties from a volcano). The \"natural evil\" criticism posits that even if for some reason an all-powerful and all-benevolent God tolerated evil human actions in order to allow free will, such a God would not be expected to also tolerate natural evils because they have no apparent connection to free will.\n\nAdvocates of the free will response to evil propose various explanations of natural evils. Alvin Plantinga, following Augustine of Hippo, and others have argued that natural evils are caused by the free choices of supernatural beings such as demons. Others have argued\n\nMost scholars agree that Plantinga's free will of human and non-human spirits (demons) argument successfully solves the logical problem of evil, proving that God and evil are logically compatible but other scholars explicitly dissent. The dissenters state that while explaining infectious diseases, cancer, hurricanes and other nature-caused suffering as something that is caused by the free will of supernatural beings solves the logical version of the problem of evil, it is highly unlikely that these natural evils do not have natural causes that an omnipotent God could prevent, but instead are caused by the immoral actions of supernatural beings with free will whom God created. According to Michael Tooley, this defense is also highly implausible because suffering from natural evil is localized, rational causes and cures for major diseases have been found, and it is unclear why anyone, including a supernatural being whom God created would choose to inflict localized evil and suffering to innocent children for example, and why God fails to stop such suffering if he is omnipotent.\n\nOne of the weaknesses of the free will defense is its inapplicability or contradictory applicability with respect to evils faced by animals and the consequent animal suffering. Some scholars, such as David Griffin, state that the free will, or the assumption of greater good through free will, does not apply to animals. In contrast, a few scholars while accepting that \"free will\" applies in a human context, have posited an alternative \"free creatures\" defense, stating that animals too benefit from their physical freedom though that comes with the cost of dangers they continuously face.\n\nThe \"free creatures\" defense has also been criticized, in the case of caged, domesticated and farmed animals who are not free and many of whom have historically experienced evil and suffering from abuse by their owners. Further, even animals and living creatures in the wild face horrendous evils and suffering—such as burn and slow death after natural fires or other natural disasters or from predatory injuries—and it is unclear, state Bishop and Perszyk, why an all-loving God would create such free creatures prone to intense suffering. \n\n\nThere is also debate regarding the compatibility of moral free will (to select good or evil action) with the absence of evil from heaven, with God's omniscience and with his omnibenevolence.\n\nOne line of extended criticism of free will defense has been that if God is perfectly powerful, knowing and loving, then he could have actualized a world with free creatures without moral evil where everyone chooses good, is always full of loving-kindness, is compassionate, always non-violent and full of joy, where earth were just like the monotheistic concept of heaven. If God did create a heaven with his love, an all-loving and always-loving God could have created an earth without evil and suffering for animals and human beings just like heaven.\n\n\"Process theodicy reframes the debate on the problem of evil by denying one of its key premises: divine omnipotence.\" It integrates philosophical and theological commitments while shifting theological metaphors. For example, God becomes the Great Companion and Fellow-Sufferer where the future is realized hand-in-hand with the sufferer.\n\nThe soul-making or Irenaean theodicy is named after the 2nd-century Greek theologian Irenaeus, whose ideas were adopted in Eastern Christianity. It has been discussed by John Hick, and the Irenaean theodicy asserts that evil and suffering are necessary for spiritual growth, for man to discover his soul, and God allows evil for spiritual growth of human beings.\n\nThe Irenaean theodicy has been challenged with the assertion that many evils do not seem to promote spiritual growth, and can be positively destructive of the human spirit. Hick acknowledges that this process often fails in our world. A second issue concerns the distribution of evils suffered: were it true that God permitted evil in order to facilitate spiritual growth, then we would expect evil to disproportionately befall those in poor spiritual health. This does not seem to be the case, as the decadent enjoy lives of luxury which insulate them from evil, whereas many of the pious are poor, and are well acquainted with worldly evils. Thirdly, states Kane, human character can be developed directly or in constructive and nurturing loving ways, and it is unclear why God would consider or allow evil and suffering to be necessary or the preferred way to spiritual growth. Further, horrendous suffering often leads to dehumanization, its victims in truth do not grow spiritually but become vindictive and spiritually worse.\n\nThis reconciliation of the problem of evil and God, states Creegan, also fails to explain the need or rationale for evil inflicted on animals and resultant animal suffering, because \"there is no evidence at all that suffering improves the character of animals, or is evidence of soul-making in them\".\n\nOn a more fundamental level, the soul-making theodicy assumes that the virtues developed through suffering are intrinsically, as opposed to instrumentally, good. The virtues identified as \"soul-making\" only appear to be valuable in a world where evil and suffering already exist. A willingness to sacrifice oneself in order to save others from persecution, for example, is virtuous precisely because persecution exists. Likewise, we value the willingness to donate one's meal to those who are starving because starvation exists. If persecution and starvation did not occur, there would be no reason to consider these acts virtuous. If the virtues developed through soul-making are only valuable where suffering exists, then it is not clear that we would lose anything if suffering did not exist.\n\nSoul-making theodicy and Process theodicy are full theodical systems with distinctive cosmologies, theologies and perspectives on the problem of evil; cruciform theodicy is not a system but is a thematic trajectory within them. As a result, it does not address all the questions of \"the origin, nature, problem, reason and end of evil,\" but it does represent an important change. \"On July 16, 1944 awaiting execution in a Nazi prison and reflecting on Christ's experience of powerlessness and pain, Dietrich Bonhoeffer penned six words that became the clarion call for the modern theological paradigm shift: 'Only the suffering God can help.\" Classic theism includes \"impassability\" (God cannot suffer personally) as a necessary characteristic of God. Cruciform theodicy begins with Jesus' suffering \"the entire spectrum of human sorrow, including economic exploitation, political disenfranchisement, social ostracism, rejection and betrayal by friends, even alienation from his own family...deep psychological distress... [grief]...\" ridicule, humiliation, abandonment, beating, torture, despair, and death.\n\nTheologian Jürgen Moltmann asserts the \"passibility\" of God saying \"A God who cannot suffer cannot love.\" Philosopher and Christian priest Marilyn McCord Adams offers a theodicy of \"redemptive suffering\" which proposes that innocent suffering shows the \"transformative power of redemption\" rather than that God is not omnibenevolent.\n\nThomas Aquinas suggested the afterlife theodicy to address the problem of evil and to justifying the existence of evil. The premise behind this theodicy is that the afterlife is unending, human life is short, and God allows evil and suffering in order to judge and grant everlasting heaven or hell based on human moral actions and human suffering. Aquinas says that the afterlife is the greater good that justifies the evil and suffering in current life. Christian author Randy Alcorn argues that the joys of heaven will compensate for the sufferings on earth.\n\nStephen Maitzen has called this the \"Heaven Swamps Everything\" theodicy, and argues that it is false because it conflates compensation and justification.\n\nA second objection to the afterlife theodicy is that it does not reconcile the suffering of small babies and innocent children from diseases, abuse, and injury in war or terror attacks, since \"human moral actions\" are not to be expected from babies and uneducated/mentored children. Similarly, moral actions and the concept of choice do not apply to the problem of evil applied to animal suffering caused by natural evil or the actions of human beings.\n\nIn the second century, Christian theologists attempted to reconcile the problem of evil with an omnipotent, omniscient, omnibenevolent God, by denying that evil exists. Among these theologians, Clement of Alexandria offered several theodicies, of which one was called \"privation theory of evil\" which was adopted thereafter. The other is a more modern version of \"deny evil\", suggested by Christian Science, wherein the perception of evil is described as a form of illusion.\n\nThe early version of \"deny evil\" is called the \"privation theory of evil\", so named because it described evil as a form of \"lack, loss or privation\". One of the earliest proponents of this theory was the 2nd-century Clement of Alexandria, who according to Joseph Kelly, stated that \"since God is completely good, he could not have created evil; but if God did not create evil, then it cannot exist\". Evil, according to Clement, does not exist as a positive, but exists as a negative or as a \"lack of good\". Clement's idea was criticised for its inability to explain suffering in the world, if evil did not exist. He was also pressed by Gnostics scholars with the question as to why God did not create creatures that \"did not lack the good\". Clement attempted to answer these questions ontologically through dualism, an idea found in the Platonic school, that is by presenting two realities, one of God and Truth, another of human and perceived experience.\n\nThe fifth-century theologian Augustine of Hippo adopted the privation theory, and in his \"Enchiridion on Faith, Hope and Love\", maintained that evil exists only as \"absence of the good\", that vices are nothing but the privations of natural good. Evil is not a substance, states Augustine, it is nothing more than \"loss of good\". God does not participate in evil, God is perfection, His creation is perfection, stated Augustine. According to the privation theory, it is the absence of the good, that explains sin and moral evil.\n\nThis view has been criticized as merely substituting definition, of evil with \"loss of good\", of \"problem of evil and suffering\" with the \"problem of loss of good and suffering\", but it neither addresses the issue from the theoretical point of view nor from the experiential point of view. Scholars who criticize the privation theory state that murder, rape, terror, pain and suffering are real life events for the victim, and cannot be denied as mere \"lack of good\". Augustine, states Pereira, accepted suffering exists and was aware that the privation theory was not a solution to the problem of evil.\n\nAn alternative modern version of the privation theory is by Christian Science, which asserts that evils such as suffering and disease only appear to be real, but in truth are illusions, and in reality evil does not exist. The theologists of Christian Science, states Stephen Gottschalk, posit that the Spirit is of infinite might, mortal human beings fail to grasp this and focus instead on evil and suffering that have no real existence as \"a power, person or principle opposed to God\".\n\nThe illusion version of privation theory theodicy has been critiqued for denying the reality of crimes, wars, terror, sickness, injury, death, suffering and pain to the victim. Further, adds Millard Erickson, the illusion argument merely shifts the problem to a new problem, as to why God would create this \"illusion\" of crimes, wars, terror, sickness, injury, death, suffering and pain; and why God does not stop this \"illusion\".\n\nA different approach to the problem of evil is to turn the tables by suggesting that any argument from evil is self-refuting, in that its conclusion would necessitate the falsity of one of its premises. One response—called the defensive response—has been to assert the opposite, and to point out that the assertion \"evil exists\" implies an ethical standard against which moral value is determined, and then to argue that this standard implies the existence of God.\n\nThe standard criticism of this view is that an argument from evil is not necessarily a presentation of the views of its proponent, but is instead intended to show how premises which the theist is inclined to believe lead him or her to the conclusion that God does not exist. A second criticism is that the existence of evil can be inferred from the suffering of its victims, rather than by the actions of the evil actor, so no \"ethical standard\" is implied. This argument was expounded upon by David Hume.\n\nA variant of above defenses is that the problem of evil is derived from probability judgments since they rest on the claim that, even after careful reflection, one can see no good reason for co-existence of God and of evil. The inference from this claim to the general statement that there exists unnecessary evil is inductive in nature and it is this inductive step that sets the evidential argument apart from the logical argument.\n\nThe hidden reasons defense asserts that there exists the logical possibility of hidden or unknown reasons for the existence of evil along with the existence of an almighty, all-knowing, all-benevolent, all-powerful God. Not knowing the reason does not necessarily mean that the reason does not exist. This argument has been challenged with the assertion that the hidden reasons premise is as plausible as the premise that God does not exist or is not \"an almighty, all-knowing, all-benevolent, all-powerful\". Similarly, for every hidden argument that completely or partially justifies observed evils it is equally likely that there is a hidden argument that actually makes the observed evils worse than they appear without hidden arguments, or that the hidden reasons may result in additional contradictions. As such, from an inductive viewpoint hidden arguments will neutralize one another.\n\nA sub-variant of the \"hidden reasons\" defense is called the \"PHOG\"—profoundly hidden outweighing goods—defense. The PHOG defense, states Bryan Frances, not only leaves the co-existence of God and human suffering unanswered, but raises questions about why animals and other life forms have to suffer from natural evil, or from abuse (animal slaughter, animal cruelty) by some human beings, where hidden moral lessons, hidden social good and such hidden reasons to reconcile God with the problem of evil do not apply.\n\nThe theory of karma refers to the spiritual principle of cause and effect where intent and actions of an individual (cause) influence the future of that individual (effect). The problem of evil, in the context of karma, has been long discussed in Indian religions including Buddhism, Hinduism and Jainism, both in its theistic and non-theistic schools; for example, in Uttara Mīmāṃsā Sutras Book 2 Chapter 1; the 8th-century arguments by Adi Sankara in \"Brahmasutrabhasya\" where he posits that God cannot reasonably be the cause of the world because there exists moral evil, inequality, cruelty and suffering in the world; and the 11th-century theodicy discussion by Ramanuja in \"Sribhasya\".\n\nMany Indian religions place greater emphasis on developing the karma principle for first cause and innate justice with Man as focus, rather than developing religious principles with the nature and powers of God and divine judgment as focus. Karma theory of Buddhism, Hinduism and Jainism is not static, but dynamic wherein livings beings with intent or without intent, but with words and actions continuously create new karma, and it is this that they believe to be in part the source of good or evil in the world. These religions also believe that past lives or past actions in current life create current circumstances, which also contributes to either. Other scholars suggest that nontheistic Indian religious traditions do not assume an omnibenevolent creator, and some theistic schools do not define or characterize their god(s) as monotheistic Western religions do and the deities have colorful, complex personalities; the Indian deities are personal and cosmic facilitators, and in some schools conceptualized like Plato’s Demiurge. Therefore, the problem of theodicy in many schools of major Indian religions is not significant, or at least is of a different nature than in Western religions.\n\nAccording to Arthur Herman, karma-transmigration theory solves all three historical formulations to the problem of evil while acknowledging the theodicy insights of Sankara and Ramanuja.\n\nPandeism is a modern theory that unites deism and pantheism, and asserts that God created the universe but during creation became the universe. In pandeism, God is no superintending, heavenly power, capable of hourly intervention into earthly affairs. No longer existing \"above,\" God \"cannot\" intervene from above and cannot be blamed for failing to do so. God, in pandeism, was omnipotent and omnibenevolent, but in the form of universe is no longer omnipotent, omnibenevolent.\n\nSociologist Walter Brueggemann says theodicy is \"a constant concern of the entire Bible\" and needs to \"include the category of social evil as well as moral, natural (physical) and religious evil\". There is general agreement among Bible scholars that the Bible \"does not admit of a singular perspective on evil. ...Instead we encounter a variety of perspectives... Consequently [the Bible focuses on] moral and spiritual remedies, not rational or logical [justifications]. ...It is simply that the Bible operates within a cosmic, moral and spiritual landscape rather than within a rationalist, abstract, ontological landscape.\" In the Holman Bible dictionary, evil is all that is \"opposed to God and His purposes or that which, from the human perspective, is harmful and nonproductive.\" Theologian Joseph Onyango narrows that definition saying that \"If we take the essentialist view of [biblical] ethics... evil is anything contrary to God's good \"nature\"...(meaning His character or attributes).\"\n\nPhilosopher Richard Swinburne says that, as it stands in its classic form, the argument from evil is unanswerable, yet there may be contrary reasons for not reaching its conclusion that there is no God. These reasons are of three kinds: other strong reasons for affirming that there is a God; general reasons for doubting the force of the argument itself; and specific reasons for doubting the criteria of any of the argument's premises; \"in other words, a theodicy.\" Christianity has responded with multiple traditional theodicies: the Punishment theodicy (Augustine), the Soul-making theodicy (Irenaeus), Process theodicy (Rabbi Harold Kushner), Cruciform theodicy (Moltmann), and the free-will defense (Plantinga) among them.\n\nThere are, essentially, four representations of evil in the Bible: chaos, human sin, Satanic/demonic forces, and suffering. The biblical language of chaos and chaos monsters such as Leviathan remind us order and harmony in our world are constantly assailed by forces \"inimical to God's good creation.\" The Bible primarily speaks of sin as moral evil rather than natural or metaphysical evil with an accent on the breaking of God's moral laws, his covenant, the teachings of Christ and the injunctions of the Holy Spirit. The writers of the Bible take the reality of a spiritual world beyond this world and its containment of hostile spiritual forces for granted. While the post-Enlightenment world does not, the \"dark spiritual forces\" can be seen as \"symbols of the darkest recesses of human nature.\" Suffering and misfortune are sometimes represented as evil in the Bible, though theologian Brian Han Gregg says, suffering in the Bible is represented twelve different ways.\n\n\nJewish theodicy is experiencing extensive revision in light of the Holocaust while still asserting the difference between the human and divine perspective of evil. It remains rooted in the nature of creation itself and the limitation inherent in matter's capacity to be perfected; the action of freewill includes the potential for perfection from individual effort and leaves evil in human hands.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible Genesis says God's creation is \"good\" with evil depicted as entering creation as a result of human choice. The book of Job \"seeks to expand the understanding of divine justice ...beyond mere retribution, to include a system of divine sovereignty [showing] the King has the right to test His subject's loyalty... [Job] corrects the rigid and overly simplistic doctrine of retribution in attributing suffering to sin and punishment.\" Hebrew Bible scholar Marvin A. Sweeney says \"...a unified reading of [Isaiah] places the question of theodicy at the forefront... [with] three major dimensions of the question: Yahweh's identification with the conqueror, Yahweh's decree of judgment against Israel without possibility of repentance, and the failure of Yahweh's program to be realized by the end of the book.\" Ezekiel and Jeremiah confront the concept of personal moral responsibility and understanding divine justice in a world under divine governance. \"Theodicy in the Minor Prophets differs little from that in Isaiah, Jeremiah and Ezekiel.\" In the Psalms more personal aspects of theodicy are discussed, such as Psalm 73 which confronts the internal struggle created by suffering. Theodicy in the Hebrew Bible almost universally looks \"beyond the concerns of the historical present to posit an eschatological salvation\" at that future time when God restores all things.\n\nIn the Bible, all characterizations of evil and suffering reveal \"a God who is greater than suffering [who] is powerful, creative and committed to His creation [who] always has the last word.\" God's commitment to the greater good is assumed in all cases.\n\nJohn Joseph Haldane's Wittgenstinian-Thomistic account of concept formation and Martin Heidegger's observation of temporality's thrown nature imply that God's act of creation and God's act of judgment are the same act. God's condemnation of evil is subsequently believed to be executed and expressed in his created world; a judgement that is unstoppable due to God's all powerful will; a constant and eternal judgement that becomes announced and communicated to other people on Judgment Day. In this explanation, God's condemnation of evil is declared to be a good judgement.\n\nIrenaean theodicy, posited by Irenaeus (2nd century CE–c. 202), has been reformulated by John Hick. It holds that one cannot achieve moral goodness or love for God if there is no evil and suffering in the world. Evil is soul-making and leads one to be truly moral and close to God. God created an epistemic distance (such that God is not immediately knowable) so that we may strive to know him and by doing so become truly good. Evil is a means to good for three main reasons:\n\n\nSt Augustine of Hippo (354–430 CE) in his Augustinian theodicy, as presented in John Hick's book \"Evil and the God of Love\", focuses on the Genesis story that essentially dictates that God created the world and that it was good; evil is merely a consequence of the fall of man (The story of the Garden of Eden where Adam and Eve disobeyed God and caused inherent sin for man). Augustine stated that natural evil (evil present in the natural world such as natural disasters etc.) is caused by fallen angels, whereas moral evil (evil caused by the will of human beings) is as a result of man having become estranged from God and choosing to deviate from his chosen path. Augustine argued that God could not have created evil in the world, as it was created good, and that all notions of evil are simply a deviation or privation of goodness. Evil cannot be a separate and unique substance. For example, Blindness is not a separate entity, but is merely a lack or privation of sight. Thus the Augustinian theodicist would argue that the problem of evil and suffering is void because God did not create evil; it was man who chose to deviate from the path of perfect goodness.\n\nSaint Thomas systematized the Augustinian conception of evil, supplementing it with his own musings. Evil, according to St. Thomas, is a privation, or the absence of some good which belongs properly to the nature of the creature. There is therefore no positive source of evil, corresponding to the greater good, which is God; evil being not real but rational—i.e. it exists not as an objective fact, but as a subjective conception; things are evil not in themselves, but by reason of their relation to other things or persons. All realities are in themselves good; they produce bad results only incidentally; and consequently the ultimate cause of evil is fundamentally good, as well as the objects in which evil is found.\n\nBoth Luther and Calvin explained evil as a consequence of the fall of man and the original sin. Calvin, however, held to the belief in predestination and omnipotence, the fall is part of God's plan. Luther saw evil and original sin as an inheritance from Adam and Eve, passed on to all mankind from their conception and bound the will of man to serving sin, which God's just nature allowed as consequence for their distrust, though God planned mankind's redemption through Jesus Christ. Ultimately humans may not be able to understand and explain this plan.\n\nSome modern liberal Christians, including French Calvinist theologian André Gounelle and Pastor Marc Pernot of L'Oratoire du Louvre, believe that God is not omnipotent, and that the Bible only describes God as \"almighty\" in passages concerning the End Times.\n\nChristian Science views evil as having no ultimate reality and as being due to false beliefs, consciously or unconsciously held. Evils such as illness and death may be banished by correct understanding. This view has been questioned, aside from the general criticisms of the concept of evil as an illusion discussed earlier, since the presumably correct understanding by Christian Science members, including the founder, has not prevented illness and death. However, Christian Scientists believe that the many instances of spiritual healing (as recounted e.g. in the Christian Science periodicals and in the textbook Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures by Mary Baker Eddy) are anecdotal evidence of the correctness of the teaching of the unreality of evil. According to one author, the denial by Christian Scientists that evil ultimately exists neatly solves the problem of evil; however, most people cannot accept that solution\n\nJehovah's Witnesses believe that Satan is the original cause of evil. Though once a perfect angel, Satan developed feelings of self-importance and craved worship, and eventually challenged God's right to rule. Satan caused Adam and Eve to disobey God, and humanity subsequently became participants in a challenge involving the competing claims of Jehovah and Satan to universal sovereignty. Other angels who sided with Satan became demons.\n\nGod's subsequent tolerance of evil is explained in part by the value of free will. But Jehovah's Witnesses also hold that this period of suffering is one of non-interference from God, which serves to demonstrate that Jehovah's \"right to rule\" is both correct and in the best interests of all intelligent beings, settling the \"issue of universal sovereignty\". Further, it gives individual humans the opportunity to show their willingness to submit to God's rulership.\n\nAt some future time known to him, God will consider his right to universal sovereignty to have been settled for all time. The reconciliation of \"faithful\" humankind will have been accomplished through Christ, and nonconforming humans and demons will have been destroyed. Thereafter, evil (any failure to submit to God's rulership) will be summarily executed.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) introduces a concept similar to Irenaean theodicy, that experiencing evil is a necessary part of the development of the soul. Specifically, the laws of nature prevent an individual from fully comprehending or experiencing good without experiencing its opposite. In this respect, Latter-day Saints do not regard the fall of Adam and Eve as a tragic, unplanned cancellation of an eternal paradise; rather they see it as an essential element of God's plan. By allowing opposition and temptations in mortality, God created an environment for people to learn, to develop their freedom to choose, and to appreciate and understand the light, with a comparison to darkness \n\nThis is a departure from the mainstream Christian definition of omnipotence and omniscience, which Mormons believe was changed by post-apostolic theologians in the centuries after Christ. The writings of Justin Martyr, Origen, Augustine, and others indicate a merging of Christian principles with Greek metaphysical philosophies such as Neoplatonism, which described divinity as an utterly simple, immaterial, formless substance/essence (ousia) that was the absolute causality and creative source of all that existed. Mormons teach that through modern day revelation, God restored the truth about his nature, which eliminated the speculative metaphysical elements that had been incorporated after the Apostolic era. As such, God's omniscience/omnipotence is not to be understood as metaphysically transcending all limits of nature, but as a perfect comprehension of all things within nature—which gives God the power to bring about any state or condition within those bounds. This restoration also clarified that God does not create Ex nihilo (out of nothing), but uses existing materials to organize order out of chaos. Because opposition is inherent in nature, and God operates within nature’s bounds, God is therefore not considered the author of evil, nor will He eradicate all evil from the mortal experience. His primary purpose, however, is to help His children to learn for themselves to both appreciate and choose the right, and thus achieve eternal joy and live in his presence, and where evil has no place.\n\nIslamic scholars in the medieval and modern era have tried to reconcile the problem of evil with the afterlife theodicy. According to Nursi, the temporal world has many evils such as the destruction of Ottoman Empire and its substitution with secularism, and such evils are impossible to understand unless there is an afterlife. The omnipotent, omniscient, omnibenevolent god in Islamic thought creates everything, including human suffering and its causes (evil). Evil was neither bad nor needed moral justification from God, but rewards awaited believers in the afterlife. The faithful suffered in this short life, so as to be judged by God and enjoy heaven in the never-ending afterlife.\n\nAlternate theodicies in Islamic thought include the 11th-century Ibn Sina's denial of evil in a form similar to \"privation theory\" theodicy. This theodicy attempt by Ibn Sina is unsuccessful, according to Shams Inati, because it implicitly denies the omnipotence of God.\n\nAccording to Jon Levenson, the writers of Hebrew Bible were well aware of evil as a theological problem, but he does not claim awareness of the problem of evil. In contrast, according to Yair Hoffman, the ancient books of the Hebrew Bible do not show an awareness of the theological problem of evil, and even most later biblical scholars did not touch the question of the problem of evil. The earliest awareness of the problem of evil in Judaism tradition is evidenced in extra- and post-biblical sources such as early Apocrypha (secret texts by unknown authors, which were not considered mainstream at the time they were written). The first systematic reflections on the problem of evil by Jewish philosophers is traceable only in the medieval period.\n\nThe problem of evil gained renewed interest among Jewish scholars after the moral evil of the Holocaust. The all-powerful, all-compassionate, all-knowing monotheistic God presumably had the power to prevent the Holocaust, but he didn't. The Jewish thinkers have argued that either God did not care about the torture and suffering in the world He created—which means He is not omnibenevolent, or He did not know what was happening—which means He is not omniscient. The persecution of Jewish people was not a new phenomenon, and medieval Jewish thinkers had in abstract attempted to reconcile the logical version of the problem of evil. The Holocaust experience and other episodes of mass extermination such as the Gulag and the Killing Fields where millions of people experienced torture and died, however, brought into focus the visceral nature of the evidential version of the problem of evil.\n\nThe 10th-century Rabbi called Saadia Gaon presented a theodicy along the lines of \"soul-making, greater good and afterlife\". Suffering suggested Saadia, in a manner similar to Babylonian Talmud \"Berakhot 5\", should be considered as a gift from God because it leads to an eternity of heaven in afterlife. In contrast, the 12th-century Moses Maimonides offered a different theodicy, asserting that the all-loving God neither produces evil nor gifts suffering, because everything God does is absolutely good, then presenting the \"privation theory\" explanation. Both these answers, states Daniel Rynhold, merely rationalize and suppress the problem of evil, rather than solve it. It is easier to rationalize suffering caused by a theft or accidental injuries, but the physical, mental and existential horrors of persistent events of repeated violence over long periods of time such as Holocaust, or an innocent child slowly suffering from the pain of cancer, cannot be rationalized by one sided self blame and belittling a personhood. Attempts by theologians to reconcile the problem of evil, with claims that the Holocaust evil was a necessary, intentional and purposeful act of God have been declared obscene by Jewish thinkers such as Richard Rubenstein.\n\nThe ancient Egyptian religion, according to , potentially absolved their gods from any blame for evil, and used a negative cosmology and the negative concept of human nature to explain evil. Further, the Pharaoh was seen as an agent of the gods and his actions as a king were aimed to prevent evil and curb evilness in human nature.\n\nThe gods in Ancient Greek religion were seen as superior, but shared similar traits with humans and often interacted with them. Although the Greeks didn't believe in any \"evil\" gods, the Greeks still acknowledged the fact that evil was present in the world.<ref name=\"Greek/Gods\"></ref> Gods often meddled in the affairs of men, and sometimes their actions consisted of bringing misery to people, for example gods would sometimes be a direct cause of death for people. However, the Greeks did not consider the gods to be evil as a result of their actions, instead the answer for most situations in Greek mythology was the power of fate. Fate is considered to be more powerful than the gods themselves and for this reason no one can escape it. For this reason the Greeks recognized that unfortunate events were justifiable by the idea of fate.\n\nLater Greek and Roman theologians and philosophers discussed the problem of evil in depth. Starting at least with Plato, philosophers tended to reject or de-emphasize literal interpretations of mythology in favor of a more pantheistic, natural theology based on reasoned arguments. In this framework, stories that seemed to impute dishonorable conduct to the gods were often simply dismissed as false, and as being nothing more than the \"imagination of poets.\" Greek and Roman thinkers continued to wrestle, however, with the problems of natural evil and of evil that we observe in our day-to-day experience. Influential Roman writers such as Cicero and Seneca, drawing on earlier work by the Greek philosophers such as the Stoics, developed many arguments in defense of the righteousness of the gods, and many of the answers they provided were later absorbed into Christian theodicy.\n\nBuddhism neither denies the existence of evil, nor does it attempt to reconcile evil in a way attempted by monotheistic religions that assert the existence of an almighty, all powerful, all knowing, all benevolent God. Buddhism, as a non-theistic religion like Jainism, does not assume or assert any creator God, and thus the problem of evil or of theodicy does not apply to it. It considers a benevolent, omnipotent creator god as attachment to be a false concept.\n\nBuddhism accepts that there is evil in the world, as well as Dukkha (suffering) that is caused by evil or because of natural causes (aging, disease, rebirth). The precepts and practices of Buddhism, such as Four Noble Truths and Noble Eightfold Path aim to empower a follower in gaining insights and liberation (nirvana) from the cycle of such suffering as well as rebirth.\n\nSome strands of Mahayana Buddhism developed a theory of Buddha-nature in texts such as the \"Tathagata-garbha Sutras\" composed in 3rd-century south India, which is very similar to the \"soul, self\" theory found in classical Hinduism. The \"Tathagata-garbha\" theory leads to a Buddhist version of the problem of evil, states Peter Harvey, because the theory claims that every human being has an intrinsically pure inner Buddha which is good. This premise leads to the question as to why anyone does any evil, and why doesn't the \"intrinsically pure inner Buddha\" attempt or prevail in preventing the evil actor before he or she commits the evil. One response has been that the Buddha-nature is omnibenevolent, but not omnipotent. Further, the \"Tathagata-garbha Sutras\" are atypical texts of Buddhism, because they contradict the Anatta doctrines in a vast majority of Buddhist texts, leading scholars to posit that the \"Tathagatagarbha Sutras\" were written to promote Buddhism to non-Buddhists, and that they do not represent mainstream Buddhism.\n\nThe mainstream Buddhism, from its early days, did not need to address the theological problem of evil as it saw no need for a creator of the universe and asserted instead, like many Indian traditions, that the universe never had a beginning and all existence is an endless cycle of rebirths (samsara).\n\nHinduism is a complex religion with many different currents or schools. Its non-theist traditions such as Samkhya, early Nyaya, Mimamsa and many within Vedanta do not posit the existence of an almighty, omnipotent, omniscient, omnibenevolent God (monotheistic God), and the classical formulations of the problem of evil and theodicy do not apply to most Hindu traditions. Further, deities in Hinduism are neither eternal nor omnipotent nor omniscient nor omnibenevolent. Devas are mortal and subject to samsara. Evil as well as good, along with suffering is considered real and caused by human free will, its source and consequences explained through the karma doctrine of Hinduism, as in other Indian religions.\n\nA version of the problem of evil appears in the ancient \"Brahma Sutras\", probably composed between 200 BCE and 200 CE, a foundational text of the Vedanta tradition of Hinduism. Its verses 2.1.34 through 2.1.36 aphoristically mention a version of the problem of suffering and evil in the context of the abstract metaphysical Hindu concept of Brahman. The verse 2.1.34 of \"Brahma Sutras\" asserts that inequality and cruelty in the world cannot be attributed to the concept of Brahman, and this is in the Vedas and the Upanishads. In his interpretation and commentary on the \"Brahma Sutras\", the 8th-century scholar Adi Shankara states that just because some people are happier than others and just because there is so much malice, cruelty and pain in the world, some state that Brahman cannot be the cause of the world.\n\nShankara attributes evil and cruelty in the world to Karma of oneself, of others, and to ignorance, delusion and wrong knowledge, but not to the abstract Brahman. Brahman itself is beyond good and evil. There is evil and suffering because of karma. Those who struggle with this explanation, states Shankara, do so because of presumed duality, between Brahman and Jiva, or because of linear view of existence, when in reality \"samsara and karma are anadi\" (existence is cyclic, rebirth and deeds are eternal with no beginning). In other words, in the \"Brahma Sutras\", the formulation of problem of evil is considered a metaphysical construct, but not a moral issue. Ramanuja of the theistic Sri Vaishnavism school—a major tradition within Vaishnavism—interprets the same verse in the context of Vishnu, and asserts that Vishnu only creates potentialities.\n\nAccording to Swami Gambhirananda of Ramakrishna Mission, Sankara's commentary explains that God cannot be charged with partiality or cruelty (i.e. injustice) on account of his taking the factors of virtuous and vicious actions (Karma) performed by an individual in previous lives. If an individual experiences pleasure or pain in this life, it is due to virtuous or vicious action (Karma) done by that individual in a past life.\n\nA sub-tradition within the Vaishnavism school of Hinduism that is an exception is dualistic Dvaita, founded by Madhvacharya in the 13th-century. This tradition posits a concept of God so similar to Christianity, that Christian missionaries in colonial India suggested that Madhvacharya was likely influenced by early Christians who migrated to India, a theory that has been discredited by scholars. Madhvacharya was challenged by Hindu scholars on the problem of evil, given his dualistic \"Tattvavada\" theory that proposed God and living beings along with universe as separate realities. Madhvacharya asserted, \"Yathecchasi tatha kuru\", which Sharma translates and explains as \"one has the right to choose between right and wrong, a choice each individual makes out of his own responsibility and his own risk\". Madhva's reply does not address the problem of evil, state Dasti and Bryant, as to how can evil exist with that of a God who is omnipotent, omniscient, and omnibenevolent.\n\nAccording to Sharma, \"Madhva's tripartite classification of souls makes it unnecessary to answer the problem of evil\". According to David Buchta, this does not address the problem of evil, because the omnipotent God \"could change the system, but chooses not to\" and thus sustains the evil in the world. This view of self's agency of Madhvacharya was, states Buchta, an outlier in Vedanta school and Indian philosophies in general.\n\nEpicurus is generally credited with first expounding the problem of evil, and it is sometimes called the \"Epicurean paradox\", the \"riddle of Epicurus\", or the \"Epicurus' trilemma\":\n\nThere is no surviving written text of Epicurus that establishes that he actually formulated the problem of evil in this way, and it is uncertain that he was the author. An attribution to him can be found in a text dated about 600 years later, in the 3rd century Christian theologian Lactantius's \"Treatise on the Anger of God\" where Lactantius critiques the argument. Epicurus's argument as presented by Lactantius actually argues that a god that is all-powerful and all-good does not exist and that the gods are distant and uninvolved with man's concerns. The gods are neither our friends nor enemies.\n\nDavid Hume's formulation of the problem of evil in \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion\":\n\"Is he [God] willing to prevent evil, but not able? then is he impotent. Is he able, but not willing? then is he malevolent. Is he both able and willing? whence then is evil?\"\n\"[God's] power we allow [is] infinite: Whatever he wills is executed: But neither man nor any other animal are happy: Therefore he does not will their happiness. His wisdom is infinite: He is never mistaken in choosing the means to any end: But the course of nature tends not to human or animal felicity: Therefore it is not established for that purpose. Through the whole compass of human knowledge, there are no inferences more certain and infallible than these. In what respect, then, do his benevolence and mercy resemble the benevolence and mercy of men?\"\n\nIn his \"Dictionnaire Historique et Critique\", the sceptic Pierre Bayle denied the goodness and omnipotence of God on account of the sufferings experienced in this earthly life. Gottfried Leibniz introduced the term theodicy in his 1710 work \"Essais de Théodicée sur la bonté de Dieu, la liberté de l'homme et l'origine du mal\" (\"Theodicic Essays on the Benevolence of God, the Free will of man, and the Origin of Evil\") which was directed mainly against Bayle. He argued that this is the best of all possible worlds that God could have created.\n\nImitating the example of Leibniz, other philosophers also called their treatises on the problem of evil theodicies. Voltaire's popular novel \"Candide\" mocked Leibnizian optimism through the fictional tale of a naive youth.\n\nThe population and economic theorist Thomas Malthus stated in a 1798 essay that people with health problems or disease are not suffering, and should not viewed as such. Malthus argued, \"Nothing can appear more consonant to our reason than that those beings which come out of the creative process of the world in lovely and beautiful forms should be crowned with immortality, while those which come out misshapen, those whose minds are not suited to a purer and happier state of existence, should perish and be condemned to mix again with their original clay. Eternal condemnation of this kind may be considered as a species of eternal punishment, and it is not wonderful that it should be represented, sometimes, under images of suffering.\"\n\nMalthus believed in the Supreme Creator, considered suffering as justified, and suggested that God should be considered \"as pursuing the creatures that had offended him with eternal hate and torture, instead of merely condemning to their original insensibility those beings that, by the operation of general laws, had not been formed with qualities suited to a purer state of happiness.\"\n\nImmanuel Kant wrote an essay on theodicy. He suggested, states William Dembski, that any successful theodicy must prove one of three things: [1] what one deems contrary to the purposefulness of world is not so; [2] if one deems it is contrary, then one must consider it not as a positive fact, but inevitable consequence of the nature of things; [3] if one accepts that it is a positive fact, then one must posit that it is not the work of God, but of some other beings such as man or superior spirits, good or evil.\n\nKant did not attempt or exhaust all theodicies to help address the problem of evil. He claimed there is a reason all possible theodicies must fail. While a successful philosophical theodicy has not been achieved in his time, added Kant, there is no basis for a successful anti-theodicy either.\n\nSeveral philosophers have argued that just as there exists a problem of evil for theists who believe in an omniscient, omnipotent and omnibenevolent being, so too is there a problem of good for anyone who believes in an omniscient, omnipotent, and omnimalevolent (or perfectly evil) being. As it appears that the defenses and theodicies which might allow the theist to resist the problem of evil can be inverted and used to defend belief in the omnimalevolent being, this suggests that we should draw similar conclusions about the success of these defensive strategies. In that case, the theist appears to face a dilemma: either to accept that both sets of responses are equally bad, and so that the theist does not have an adequate response to the problem of evil; or to accept that both sets of responses are equally good, and so to commit to the existence of an omnipotent, omniscient, and omnimalevolent being as plausible.\n\nCritics have noted that theodicies and defenses are often addressed to the logical problem of evil. As such, they are intended only to demonstrate that it is \"possible\" that evil can co-exist with an omniscient, omnipotent and omnibenevolent being. Since the relevant parallel commitment is only that good can co-exist with an omniscient, omnipotent and omnimalevolent being, not that it is plausible that they should do so, the theist who is responding to the problem of evil need not be committing himself to something he is likely to think is false. This reply, however, leaves the evidential problem of evil untouched.\n\nAnother general criticism is that though a theodicy may harmonize God with the existence of evil, it does so at the cost of nullifying morality. This is because most theodicies assume that whatever evil there is exists because it is required for the sake of some greater good. But if an evil is necessary because it secures a greater good, then it appears we humans have no duty to prevent it, for in doing so we would also prevent the greater good for which the evil is required. Even worse, it seems that any action can be rationalized, as if one succeeds in performing it, then God has permitted it, and so it must be for the greater good. From this line of thought one may conclude that, as these conclusions violate our basic moral intuitions, no greater good theodicy is true, and God does not exist. Alternatively, one may point out that greater good theodicies lead us to see every conceivable state of affairs as compatible with the existence of God, and in that case the notion of God's goodness is rendered meaningless.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14464389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14464389", "title": "Prostitution in the Dominican Republic", "text": "Prostitution in the Dominican Republic\n\nProstitution in the Dominican Republic is legal, but related activities such as brothel-keeping or pimping are illegal. However, prostitution laws are generally not enforced. It is estimated between 60,000 and 100,000 women work as prostitutes in the country, many from neighbouring Haiti.\n\nThe Dominican Republic has gained a reputation of being a major destination for international sex tourism, although the activity is mostly concentrated in poor coastal towns of the country (especially Las Terrenas, Cabarete, Sosua, and Boca Chica), where women have less economic opportunities than in larger towns and cities. Haitian immigrants also take part in the sex tourism business, with many of the prostitutes in some areas being of Haitian descent. At sex tourism sites the lighter Dominicans are favored over darker Haitians, who are forced to work in the streets or local bars rather than the more lucrative up-scale areas. Child sex tourism is a problem in the country.\n\nUnderage prostitution is a problem, particularly in some urban areas within coastal towns, but there has been a decrease in child prostitution since 2001, with the increase in policing and the decrease in corruption. The United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement has started prosecuting individuals who are engaging in child prostitution. A 2015 study by the International Justice Mission found a quarter of sex workers working on the streets, in parks and on beaches were under 18 years old.\n\nThe prevalence of HIV/AIDS in the Dominican Republic is estimated to be 0.7 percent, which is relatively low by Caribbean standards. However, the percentage among sex workers is estimated to be much higher, ranging from 2.5% to 12.4%, depending on the locale.\n\nAccording to the US Department of State, the Dominican Republic is a source, transit and destination country for human trafficking. Women and children from neighbouring Haiti, the rest of the Caribbean, Asia, and South America are trafficked into the country for Forced prostitution. Colombian and Venezuelan women who had been brought into the country to dance in strip clubs are forced to work in prostitution.\n\nDominican women and children are subjected to sex trafficking within the country, neighbouring Haiti, the rest of the Caribbean, Europe, South and Central America, the Middle East, Asia and the United States.\n\nAfter the 2010 Haiti earthquake, many Dominican prostitutes crossed over the border into Haiti, searching out clients amongst the aid workers and UN personnel. Dominican women are paid a premium because of their lighter skin.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks the Dominican Republic as a 'Tier 2' country.\n\n"}
{"id": "15385738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15385738", "title": "Seven Myths of the Spanish Conquest", "text": "Seven Myths of the Spanish Conquest\n\nSeven Myths of the Spanish Conquest is a 2003 work by ethnohistorian Matthew Restall in which he posits that there are seven myths about the Spanish colonization of the Americas that have come to be widely believed to be true. Working within the tradition of New Philology, Restall questions several notions which he claims are widely held myths about how the Spanish achieved military and cultural hegemony in Latin America. The book grew from undergraduate lectures at Penn State University; the \"book's seven-part structure seemed justified by the fact that the number seven has deep roots and symbolic significance in the history of the Americas, both Native American and Spanish.\" The book has been published in Spanish and Portuguese translations.\n\n\n\"Seven Myths of the Spanish Conquest\" was first published 2003 in cloth (hardcover) edition by OUP, with a paperback edition released the following year. A Spanish-language edition (under the title \"Los siete mitos de la conquista española\") was published by Paidós, with imprints issued in Spain (Barcelona, November 2004) and Mexico (2005). \n"}
{"id": "426479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426479", "title": "Showrunner", "text": "Showrunner\n\nShowrunner is the 21st-century term for the leading executive producer of a Hollywood television series in the United States. The concept has since been adopted in the Canadian and British television industries. A showrunner typically has creative control of a television series production, through combining the responsibilities of the head writer, executive producer, and script editor. In films, directors typically have creative control of a production, but in television, the showrunner outranks the director.\n\nTraditionally, the executive producer of a television program was the \"chief executive\", responsible for the show's creative direction and production. Over time, the title of executive producer was applied to a wider range of roles—from someone who arranges financing to an \"angel\" who holds the title as an honorific with no management duties in return for providing backing capital. The term \"showrunner\" was created to identify the producer who holds ultimate management and creative authority for the program. The blog and book \"Crafty Screenwriting\" defines a showrunner as \"the person responsible for all creative aspects of the show and responsible only to the network (and production company, if it's not [their] production company). The boss. Usually a writer.\"\n\n\"Los Angeles Times\" columnist Scott Collins describes showrunners as:\nShane Brennan, the showrunner for \"NCIS\" and \"\", states in an interview that:\n\nOften the showrunner is the creator or co-creator of the series, but they often move on and day-to-day responsibilities of the position fall to other writers or writing teams. \"Law & Order\", \"ER\", \"The Simpsons\", \"The West Wing\", \"\", \"NYPD Blue\", \"Supernatural\" and \"The Walking Dead\" are all examples of long-running shows that had successive, multiple showrunners.\n\nThe Writers Guild of Canada, the union representing screenwriters in Canada, established the Showrunner Award in 2007, at the annual Canadian Screenwriting Awards. The first Showrunner Award was presented in April 2007 to Brad Wright, executive producer of \"Stargate Atlantis\" and \"Stargate SG-1\".\n\nIn the first decade of the 21st century, the concept of a \"showrunner\", specifically interpreted as a writer or presenter with overall responsibility for a television production, began to spread to the British television industry.\n\nThe first British comedy series to use the term was \"My Family\" (2000–11), which had several showrunners in succession. Initially, the show was overseen by creator Fred Barron from series 1–4. Ian Brown and James Hendrie took over for series 5, followed by American writer Tom Leopold for series 6. Former \"Cheers\" showrunner Tom Anderson was in charge from series 7 to the final series, series 11.\n\nThe first writer appointed the role of showrunner on a British primetime drama was Tony McHale, writer and creator of \"Holby City\", in 2005. Jed Mercurio had carried out a similar role on the less conspicuous medical drama \"Bodies\" (2004–2006). But Russell T Davies' work on the 2005 revival of \"Doctor Who\" brought the term to prominence in British television (to the extent that in 2009 a writer for \"The Guardian\" wrote that \"Over here, the concept of 'showrunner' has only made it as far as \"Doctor Who\"\").\n\nIn an interview, Davies said that he felt the role of the showrunner was to establish and maintain a consistent tone in a drama. \"Doctor Who\" remains the most prominent example of a British television programme with a showrunner, with Steven Moffat having taken over the post from Davies from 2010 until 2017. Chris Chibnall has since taken over from Moffat. The term has also been used to refer to other writer-producers, such as Tony Jordan on \"Moving Wallpaper\" and \"Echo Beach\", Ann McManus on \"Waterloo Road\", Adrian Hodges on \"Primeval\" and Jed Mercurio on \"Bodies\", \"Line of Duty\", and \"Critical\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10255351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10255351", "title": "Simon Schama's Power of Art", "text": "Simon Schama's Power of Art\n\nPower of Art is a BBC documentary series written and presented by Simon Schama. The series was broadcast in October and November 2006 on BBC2. It aired in Poland on TVP2 in February and March 2008, on PBS in the US and re -broadcast in September 2008 on TVOntario in Canada, ABC1 in Australia, Australia Network in the Asia-Pacific region, TV ONE in New Zealand and on ET1 in Greece. It was also translated to Persian and aired on BBC Persian in Iran, as well in Italy for Sky Italia on the channel Sky Arte. Each of the eight one-hour episodes examines the biography of an artist and one of his key works through Schama's considerations and occasional reenactments:\n\n\nIn reenactment scenes the role of Caravaggio was performed by Paul Popplewell, Van Gogh was played by Andy Serkis, and Mark Rothko by Allan Corduner.\n\nPower of Art was published in book form by BBC Books in 2006 and released on DVD in June 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "18158507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18158507", "title": "Tenayuca", "text": "Tenayuca\n\nTenayuca () is a pre-Columbian Mesoamerican archaeological site in the Valley of Mexico. In the Postclassic period of Mesoamerican chronology, Tenayuca was a settlement on the former shoreline of the western arm of Lake Texcoco. It was located approximately to the northwest of Tenochtitlan (the heart of present-day Mexico City). \n\nTenayuca is considered to be the earliest capital city of the Chichimec, nomadic tribes who migrated and settled in the Valley of Mexico, where they formed their own kingdoms.\n\nTenayuca means \"walled place\" in Nahuatl.\n\nThe pyramid of Tenayuca is located in San Bartolo Tenayuca in Tlalnepantla de Baz, in Mexico State. It falls within the urban sprawl of Greater Mexico City.\n\nBy some historiographic traditions Tenayuca had been founded ca. 1224 by Xolotl, a semi-legendary ruler of a \"Chichimec\" tribe that had settled in the Valley of Mexico in the period some time after the 12th-century collapse of the former political hegemony in the Valley — the so-called Toltec empire, emanating from Tula. Xolotl was succeeded by Nopaltzin who consolidated the Chichimec Kingdom . His son, Tlotzin, became lord of Tenayuca. When Nopaltzin died, his successor Quinatzin transferred the seat of Chichimec power to Texcoco, relegating Tenayuca to a site of secondary importance.\n\nHowever archaeological remains recovered from Tenayuca indicate that the site had already been occupied in the Classic Period, long before this foundational event described in several of the Mesoamerican historical documents. Its population increased in the early Postclassic and continued to increase after the fall of Tula, when Tenayuca became an important regional power.\n\nIn the late 13th century A.D., some time after the arrival of the Chichimecs at Tenayuca, Tochintecuhtli, the ruling lord of Tenayuca, allied himself with Huetzin, lord of the Acolhuas of Coatlichán, and their alliance dominated the central Valley of Mexico, extending as far northeast as Tulancingo. By the mid 14th century the power of Tenayuca had already waned, it was conquered and replaced as a regional power by nearby Azcapotzalco. Around 1434, Tenochtitlan conquered Tenayuca, bringing it into the Aztec Empire.\n\nAt the time of the Spanish Conquest Tenayuca was still occupied, and fighting took place there in 1520. The conquistador Bernal Díaz del Castillo referred to Tenayuca as the \"town of the serpents\".\n\nAt some point the site was abandoned. It was rediscovered during excavations made by Mexican archaeologists in 1925.\n\nAztec temple architecture primarily developed at Tenayuca, which has the earliest example yet found of the typical Aztec double pyramid, which consists of joined pyramidal bases supporting two temples. After Tenayuca came under Aztec dominance, the Aztecs adopted this innovative style for the worship of their own deities.\n\nThe temple of Tenayuca is better preserved than the similar temple of Tlatelolco and its wall of serpents remains mostly intact on three sides of the base of the pyramid.\n\nThe site consists of a massive pyramidal platform with a double stairway rising on the western side to where the twin temples of Tlaloc and Huitzilopochtli once stood. The temple of Tlaloc occupied the northern part of the pyramid while the Huitzilopochtli temple stood to the south. Some of the temple steps are carved with year-glyphs such as knives, circles and shields. To the south of the stairway at ground level is a projecting platform bearing sculptures of crossed bones and projecting skulls.\n\nLike many Mesoamerican temples, various phases of construction were built one on top of the other. In the case of Tenayuca, the size of the building increased through six phases of construction but the basic form remained unchanged. The original double pyramid was enlarged five times, the first time probably in 1299 and then successively at 52-year intervals. The last phase of construction probably dates to 1507 and measures 62 meters wide by 50 meters deep. Aztec influence is apparent from the third stage in 1351, the following stages were purely Aztec in style, as demonstrated by the sloping tiers of the pyramid rather than the vertical walls apparent in the earlier stages.\n\nThe pyramid base is surrounded by a \"coatepantli\" (Nahuatl for \"wall of serpents\"), a low platform supporting 138 stone sculptures of snakes. Their bodies were once covered with plaster and painted in a variety of colours, with their scales painted black. On the north and south sides of the pyramid, at ground level, are two sculptures of coiled serpents . The crests on their heads bear markings representing the stars and identify them as \"Xiuhcoatl\" (the fire serpent). All the serpent sculptures around the pyramid were associated with fire and sun worship.\n\nThere are several altars and shrines nearby that were also excavated, some of these also have serpent sculptures.\n\n200 meters from the main pyramid of Tenayuca are the remains of what appear to have been an elite residential complex, with surviving plaster floors in some rooms. This area has been labelled Tenayuca II by archaeologists and appears to have gone through various phases of construction.\n\nThe pyramid of Tenayuca is in the care of the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia (\"National Institute of Anthropology and History\") and is open to the public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53609454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53609454", "title": "The Sookie Stackhouse Companion", "text": "The Sookie Stackhouse Companion\n\nThe Sookie Stackhouse Companion is a book written by Charlaine Harris and published by Ace Hardcover/Ace Books (an imprint of Berkley Books, owned by Penguin Random House) on 30 August 2011, which later went on to win the Anthony Award for Best Critical Non-Fiction in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "17691385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17691385", "title": "Triumph of the Revolution", "text": "Triumph of the Revolution\n\nTriumph of the Revolution (Triunfo de la Revolución) also known as \"Dia de la Revolución\" is a celebration in Cuba of the anniversary of the victory of the revolution led by Fidel Castro in 1959 which established the present government in Cuba. The previous president, Fulgencio Batista fled the country on December 31st, 1958. The holiday is celebrated on January 1st every year.\n"}
{"id": "34361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34361", "title": "York", "text": "York\n\nYork is a historic walled city in North Yorkshire, England. At the confluence of the River Ouse and Foss, it is the traditional county town of the historic county of Yorkshire. York Minster and a variety of cultural and sporting activities make it a popular tourist destination.\n\nThe city was founded by the Romans as Eboracum in 71 AD. It became the capital of the Roman province of Britannia Inferior, and later of the kingdoms of Northumbria and Jórvík. In the Middle Ages, York grew as a major wool trading centre and became the capital of the northern ecclesiastical province of the Church of England, a role it has retained.\n\nIn the 19th century, York became a hub of the railway network and a confectionery manufacturing centre. The economy of York is now dominated by services. The University of York and National Health Service are major employers, whilst tourism has become an important element of the local economy.\n\nThe City of York local government district includes rural areas beyond the old city boundaries. In 2011, it had a population of 198,051.\n\nThe word \"York\" (Old Norse: \"Jórvík\") is derived from the Brittonic name \"Eburākon\" (Latinised variously as \"Eboracum\", \"Eburacum\" or \"Eburaci\"), a combination of \"eburos\" \"yew-tree\" (cf. Old Irish \"ibar\" \"yew-tree\", Welsh \"efwr\" \"alder buckthorn\", Breton \"evor\" \"alder buckthorn\") and a suffix of appurtenance \"*-āko(n)\" \"belonging to-, place of-\" (cf. Welsh \"-og\") meaning either \"place of the yew trees\" (cf. \"efrog\" in Welsh, \"eabhrac\" in Irish Gaelic and \"eabhraig\" in Scottish Gaelic, by which names the city is known in those languages); or alternately, \"the settlement of (a man named) \"Eburos\"\" (a Celtic personal name is mentioned in different documents as \"Eβουρος\", \"Eburus\" and \"Eburius\" and, when combined with the Celtic possessive suffix \"*-āko(n)\", could be used to denote his property). \n\nThe name \"Eboracum\" became the Anglian \"Eoforwic\" in the 7th century: a compound of \"Eofor-\", from the old name, and \"-wic\" a village probably by conflation of the element \"Ebor-\" with a Germanic root \"*eburaz\" (boar); by the 7th century the Old English for 'boar' had become \"eofor\". When the Danish army conquered the city in 866, its name became \"Jórvík\".\n\nThe Old French and Norman name of the city following the Norman Conquest was recorded as \"Everwic\" (modern Norman \"Évèroui\") in works such as Wace's Roman de Rou. \"Jórvík\", meanwhile, gradually reduced to \"York\" in the centuries after the Conquest, moving from the Middle English \"Yerk\" in the 14th century through \"Yourke\" in the 16th century to \"Yarke\" in the 17th century. The form \"York\" was first recorded in the 13th century. Many company and place names, such as the Ebor race meeting, refer to the Latinised Brittonic, Roman name.\n\nThe 12th‑century chronicler Geoffrey of Monmouth, in his fictional account of the prehistoric kings of Britain, \"\", suggests the name derives from that of a pre-Roman city founded by the legendary king Ebraucus.\n\nThe Archbishop of York uses \"Ebor\" as his surname in his signature.\n\nArchaeological evidence suggests that Mesolithic people settled in the region of York between 8000 and 7000 BC, although it is not known whether their settlements were permanent or temporary. By the time of the Roman conquest of Britain, the area was occupied by a tribe known to the Romans as the Brigantes. The Brigantian tribal area initially became a Roman client state, but later its leaders became more hostile and the Roman Ninth Legion was sent north of the Humber into Brigantian territory.\n\nThe city was founded in 71 AD, when the Ninth Legion conquered the Brigantes and constructed a wooden military fortress on flat ground above the River Ouse close to its confluence with the River Foss. The fortress, whose walls were rebuilt in stone by the VI legion based there subsequent to the IX legion, covered an area of and was inhabited by 6,000 legionary soldiers. The site of the \"principia\" (HQ) of the fortress lies under the foundations of York Minster, and excavations in the undercroft have revealed part of the Roman structure and columns.\nThe Emperors Hadrian, Septimius Severus and Constantius I all held court in York during their various campaigns. During his stay 207–211 AD, the Emperor Severus proclaimed York capital of the province of Britannia Inferior, and it is likely that it was he who granted York the privileges of a 'colonia' or city. Constantius I died in 306 AD during his stay in York, and his son Constantine the Great was proclaimed Emperor by the troops based in the fortress. In 314 AD a bishop from York attended the Council at Arles to represent Christians from the province.\n\nWhile the Roman \"colonia\" and fortress were located on high ground, by 400 AD the town was victim to occasional flooding from the Rivers Ouse and Foss, and the population reduced. York declined in the post-Roman era, and was taken and settled by the Angles in the 5th century.\n\nReclamation of parts of the town was initiated in the 7th century under King Edwin of Northumbria, and York became his chief city. The first wooden minster church was built in York for the baptism of Edwin in 627, according to the Venerable Bede. Edwin ordered the small wooden church be rebuilt in stone; however, he was killed in 633, and the task of completing the stone minster fell to his successor Oswald. In the following century, Alcuin of York came to the cathedral school of York. He had a long career as a teacher and scholar, first at the school at York now known as St Peter's School, founded in 627 AD, and later as Charlemagne's leading advisor on ecclesiastical and educational affairs.\n\nIn 866, Northumbria was in the midst of internecine struggles when the Vikings raided and captured York. Under Viking rule the city became a major river port, part of the extensive Viking trading routes throughout northern Europe. The last ruler of an independent Jórvík, Eric Bloodaxe, was driven from the city in 954 AD by King Eadred in his successful attempt to complete the unification of England.\n\nIn 1068, two years after the Norman conquest of England, the people of York rebelled. Initially they were successful, but upon the arrival of William the Conqueror the rebellion was put down. William at once built a wooden fortress on a motte. In 1069, after another rebellion, the king built another timbered castle across the River Ouse. These were destroyed in 1069 and rebuilt by William about the time of his ravaging Northumbria in what is called the \"Harrying of the North\" where he destroyed everything from York to Durham. The remains of the rebuilt castles, now in stone, are visible on either side of the River Ouse. See Peter Rex's The English Resistance, The Underground War Against the Normans, 2006.\n\nThe first stone minster church was badly damaged by fire in the uprising, and the Normans built a minster on a new site. Around the year 1080, Archbishop Thomas started building the cathedral that in time became the current Minster.\nIn the 12th century York started to prosper. In 1190, York Castle was the site of an infamous massacre of its Jewish inhabitants, in which at least 150 Jews died (although some authorities put the figure as high as 500).\n\nThe city, through its location on the River Ouse and its proximity to the Great North Road, became a major trading centre. King John granted the city's first charter in 1212, confirming trading rights in England and Europe. During the later Middle Ages, York merchants imported wine from France, cloth, wax, canvas, and oats from the Low Countries, timber and furs from the Baltic and exported grain to Gascony and grain and wool to the Low Countries.\n\nYork became a major cloth manufacturing and trading centre. Edward I further stimulated the city's economy by using the city as a base for his war in Scotland. The city was the location of significant unrest during the so-called Peasants' Revolt in 1381. The city acquired an increasing degree of autonomy from central government including the privileges granted by a charter of Richard II in 1396.\n\nThe city underwent a period of economic decline during Tudor times. Under King Henry VIII, the Dissolution of the Monasteries saw the end of York's many monastic houses, including several orders of friars, the hospitals of St Nicholas and of St Leonard, the largest such institution in the north of England. This led to the Pilgrimage of Grace, an uprising of northern Catholics in Yorkshire and Lincolnshire opposed to religious reform. Henry VIII restored his authority by establishing the Council of the North in York in the dissolved St Mary's Abbey. The city became a trading and service centre during this period.\n\nGuy Fawkes, who was born and educated in York, was a member of a group of Roman Catholic restorationists that planned the Gunpowder Plot. Its aim was to displace Protestant rule by blowing up the Houses of Parliament while King James I, the entire Protestant, and even most of the Catholic aristocracy and nobility were inside.\n\nIn 1644, during the Civil War, the Parliamentarians besieged York, and many medieval houses outside the city walls were lost. The barbican at Walmgate Bar was undermined and explosives laid, but, the plot was discovered. On the arrival of Prince Rupert, with an army of 15,000 men, the siege was lifted. The Parliamentarians retreated some from York with Rupert in pursuit, before turning on his army and soundly defeating it at the Battle of Marston Moor. Of Rupert's 15,000 troops, no fewer than 4,000 were killed and 1,500 captured. The siege was renewed; the city could not hold out for much longer, and surrendered to Sir Thomas Fairfax on 15 July.\n\nFollowing the restoration of the monarchy in 1660, and the removal of the garrison from York in 1688, the city was dominated by the gentry and merchants, although the clergy were still important. Competition from Leeds and Hull, together with silting of the River Ouse, resulted in York losing its pre-eminent position as a trading centre but the city's role as the social and cultural centre for wealthy northerners was on the rise. York's many elegant townhouses, such as the Lord Mayor's Mansion House and Fairfax House date from this period, as do the Assembly Rooms, the Theatre Royal, and the racecourse.\n\nDuring this general time period, the American city of New York and the colony that contained it were renamed after the Duke of York (later King James II).\n\nThe railway promoter George Hudson was responsible for bringing the railway to York in 1839. Although Hudson's career as a railway entrepreneur ended in disgrace and bankruptcy, his promotion of York over Leeds, and of his own railway company (the York and North Midland Railway), helped establish York as a major railway centre by the late 19th century.\nThe introduction of the railways established engineering in the city. At the turn of the 20th century, the railway accommodated the headquarters and works of the North Eastern Railway, which employed more than 5,500 people. The railway was instrumental in the expansion of Rowntree's Cocoa Works. It was founded in 1862 by Henry Isaac Rowntree, who was joined in 1869 by his brother the philanthropist Joseph. Another chocolate manufacturer, Terry's of York, was a major employer. By 1900, the railways and confectionery had become the city's two major industries.\n\nWith the emergence of tourism, the historic core of York became one of the city's major assets, and in 1968 it was designated a conservation area. The existing tourist attractions were supplemented by the establishment of the National Railway Museum in York in 1975, the Jorvik Viking Centre in 1984 and the York Dungeon in 1986. The opening of the University of York in 1963 added to the prosperity of the city. In March 2012, York's Chocolate Story opened.\n\nYork was voted European Tourism City of the Year by European Cities Marketing in June 2007, beating 130 other European cities to gain first place, surpassing Gothenburg in Sweden (second) and Valencia in Spain (third). York was also voted safest place to visit in the 2010 \"Condé Nast Traveller\" Readers’ Choice Awards. In 2018, \"The Sunday Times\" deemed York to be its overall 'Best Place to Live' in Britain, highlighting the city's \"perfect mix of heritage and hi-tech\" and as a \"mini-metropolis with cool cafes, destination restaurants, innovative companies - plus the fastest internet in Britain\". The result was confirmed in a YouGov survey, reported in August 2018, with 92% of respondents saying that they liked the city, more than any of 56 other British cities.\n\nYork was a centre of early photography, as described by Hugh Murray in his 1986 book \"Photographs and Photographers of York: The Early Years, 1844–79\". Photographers who had studios in York included William Hayes, William Pumphrey, and Augustus Mahalski who operated on Davygate and Low Petergate in the 19th century, having come to England as a refugee after serving as a Polish lancer in the Austro-Hungarian war.\n\nThe City of York is governed by the City of York Council. It is a unitary authority that operates on a leader and cabinet style of governance, having the powers of a non-metropolitan county and district council combined. It provides a full range of local government services including Council Tax billing, libraries, social services, processing planning applications, waste collection and disposal, and it is a local education authority. The city council consists of 47 councillors representing 21 wards, with two or three per ward serving four-year terms. Its headquarters are at the Guildhall and West Offices in the city centre.\n\nYork is divided into 21 administrative wards: Acomb, Bishopthorpe, Clifton, Copmanthorpe, Dringhouses and Woodthorpe, Fishergate, Fulford and Heslington, Guildhall, Haxby and Wigginton, Heworth, Heworth Without, Holgate, Hull Road, Huntington and New Earswick, Micklegate, Osbaldwick and Derwent, Rawcliffe and Clifton Without, Rural West York, Strensall, Westfield, and Wheldrake.\n\nThe members of the cabinet, led by the Council Leader, makes decisions on their portfolio areas individually.Following the Local Government Act 2000, the Council Leader commands the confidence of the city council; the leader of the largest political group and head of the City of York Council. The Leader of the Council and the cabinet (consisting of all the executive councillors) are collectively accountable for their policies and actions to the city council. The current Council Leader, Ian Gillies, leader of the Conservative group, replaced David Carr on 23 January 2018.\n\nYork's first citizen and civic head is the Lord Mayor, who is the chairman of the City of York Council. The appointment is made by the city council each year in May, at the same time appointing the Sheriff, the city's other civic head. The offices of Lord Mayor and Sheriff are purely ceremonial. The Lord Mayor carries out civic and ceremonial duties in addition to chairing full council meetings. The incumbent Lord Mayor since 24 May 2018 is Councillor Keith Orrell, and the Sheriff is Verna Campbell.\n\nYork Youth Council consists of several young people who negotiate with the councillors to get better facilities for York's young people, and who also elect York's Member of Youth Parliament.\n\nAs a result of the 2015 City of York Council election the Labour Party was reduced to 15 seats. The Liberal Democrats had twelve councillors. The Conservative Party had 14 councillors and the Green Party had four with two Independents.\nYork is the traditional county town of Yorkshire, and therefore did not form part of any of its three historic ridings, or divisions. Its Mayor has had the status of Lord Mayor since 1370. York is an ancient borough, and was reformed by the Municipal Corporations Act 1835 to form a municipal borough. It gained the status of a county borough in 1889, under the Local Government Act 1888, and existed so until 1974, when, under the Local Government Act 1972, it became a non-metropolitan district in the county of North Yorkshire, whilst retaining its Lord Mayor, its Sheriff and Aldermen. As a result of 1990s UK local government reform, York regained unitary status and saw a substantial alteration in its borders, taking in parts of Selby and Harrogate districts, and about half the population of the Ryedale district. The new boundary was imposed after central government rejected the former city council's own proposal.\n\nFrom 1997 to 2010, the central part of the district was covered by the City of York constituency, while the remainder was split between the constituencies of Ryedale, Selby, and Vale of York. These constituencies were represented by Hugh Bayley, John Greenway, John Grogan, and Anne McIntosh respectively.\n\nFollowing their review in 2003 of parliamentary representation in North Yorkshire, the Boundary Commission for England recommended the creation of two new seats for the City of York, in time for the general election in 2010. These are York Central, which covers the inner urban area, and is entirely surrounded by the York Outer constituency.\n\nThe whole of the city and local council area lies within the Yorkshire and the Humber constituency of the European Parliament.\nYork is within the ceremonial territorial jurisdiction of the Dukedom of York which is presently held by Prince Andrew, the incumbent Duke of York.\n\nThe city is from Leeds.\n\nYork lies in the Vale of York, a flat area of fertile arable land bordered by the Pennines, the North York Moors and the Yorkshire Wolds. The city was built at the confluence of the Rivers Ouse and Foss on a terminal moraine left by the last Ice Age.\n\nDuring Roman times, the land surrounding the rivers Ouse and Foss was marshy, making the site easy to defend. The city is prone to flooding from the River Ouse, and has an extensive (and until 2015 mostly effective) network of flood defences with walls along the river, and a liftable barrier across the River Foss where it joins the Ouse at the 'Blue Bridge'. In October and November 2000, York experienced the worst flooding in 375 years; more than 300 homes were flooded. In December 2015 the flooding was more extensive and caused major disruption. The extreme impact led to a personal visit by Prime Minister David Cameron. Much land in and around the city is on flood plains too flood-prone for development other than agriculture. The \"ings\" are flood meadows along the Ouse, while the \"strays\" are open common grassland in various locations around the city.\n\nYork Minster, a large Gothic cathedral, dominates the city.\n\nYork's centre is enclosed by the city's medieval walls, which are a popular walk. These defences are the most complete in England. They have the only walls set on high ramparts and they retain all their principal gateways. They incorporate part of the walls of the Roman fortress and some Norman and medieval work, as well as 19th- and 20th-century renovations. The entire circuit is approximately , and encloses an area of . The north-east section includes a part where walls never existed, because the Norman moat of York Castle, formed by damming the River Foss, also created a lake which acted as a city defence. This lake was later called the King's Fishpond, as the rights to fish belonged to the Crown.\nA feature of central York is the Snickelways, narrow pedestrian routes, many of which led towards the former market-places in Pavement and St Sampson's Square. The Shambles is a narrow medieval street, lined with shops, boutiques and tea rooms. Most of these premises were once butchers' shops, and the hooks from which carcasses were hung and the shelves on which meat was laid out can still be seen outside some of them. The street also contains the Shrine of Margaret Clitherow, although it is not located in the house where she lived. Goodramgate has many medieval houses including the early 14th century Lady Row built to finance a Chantry, at the edge of the churchyard of Holy Trinity church.\n\nAs well as the Castle Museum, the city contains numerous other museums and historic buildings such as the Yorkshire Museum and its Museum Gardens, Jorvik Viking Centre, York Art Gallery, the Richard III Experience, Merchant Adventurers' Hall, the reconstructed medieval house Barley Hall (owned by the York Archaeological Trust), the 18th-century Fairfax House, the Mansion House (the historic home of the Lord Mayor) and the so-called Treasurer's House (owned by the National Trust). The National Railway Museum is situated just beyond the station, and is home to a vast range of transport material and the largest collection of railway locomotives in the world. Included in this collection are the world's fastest steam locomotive LNER Class A4 4468 \"Mallard\" and the world-famous LNER Class A3 4472 \"Flying Scotsman\", which has been overhauled in the Museum.\nAlthough noted for its Medieval history, visitors can also gain an understanding of the Cold War through visiting the York Cold War Bunker, former headquarters of No 20 Group of the Royal Observer Corps.\nYork is noted for its numerous churches and pubs. Most of the remaining churches in York are from the medieval period. St William's College behind the Minster, and Bedern Hall, off Goodramgate, are former dwelling places of the canons of the York Minster.\n\nYork has a temperate climate with four distinct seasons. As with the rest of the Vale of York the city's climate is drier and warmer than the rest of the Yorkshire and Humberside region. Owing to its lowland location, York is prone to frosts, fog, and cold winds during winter, spring and very early summer. Snow can fall in winter from December onwards to as late as April but quickly melts. As with much of the British Isles, the weather is changeable. York experiences most sunshine from May to July, an average of six hours per day. With its inland location, summers are often warmer than the Yorkshire coast with temperatures of 27°C or more. Extremes recorded at the University of York campus between 1998 and 2010 include a highest temperature of (Monday 17 July 2006) and a lowest temperature of (Monday 6 December 2010). The most rainfall in one day was .\n\nYork is bounded by a green belt area, which more rigorously manages development around the rural area of the district and portions of surrounding districts, primarily to preserve the setting and historic character of York. The belt covers nearly all of the city district including all its outer villages, and extends into the surrounding North Yorkshire districts of Hambleton, Harrogate, Ryedale, and Selby.\n\nThe York urban area (built-up area) had a population of 153,717 at the time of the 2011 UK census, compared with 137,505 in 2001. \nThe population of the City of York (Local Authority) was 198,051 and its ethnic composition was 94.3% White, 1.2% Mixed, 3.4% Asian and 0.6% Black. York's population elderly population (those 65 and over) was ((16929+11629+3200+1657)/198051)*100 round 1%, however only 13.2% where listed as retired.\nAlso at the time of the 2001 UK census, the City of York had a total population of 181,094 of whom 93,957 were female and 87,137 were male. Of the 76,920 households in York, 36.0% were married couples living together, 31.3% were one-person households, 8.7% were co-habiting couples and 8.0% were lone parents. The figures for lone parent households were below the national average of 9.5%, and the percentage of married couples was also close to the national average of 36.5%; the proportion of one person households was slightly higher than the national average of 30.1%.\n\nIn 2001, the population density was . Of those aged 16–74 in York, 24.6% had no academic qualifications, a little lower than 28.9% in all of England. Of York's residents, 5.1% were born outside the United Kingdom, significantly lower than the national average of 9.2%. White British form 95% of the population; the largest single minority group was recorded as Asian, at 1.9% of the population.\n\nThe number of theft-from-a-vehicle offences and theft of a vehicle per 1,000 of the population was 8.8 and 2.7, compared to the English national average of 6.9 and 2.7 respectively. The number of sexual offences was 0.9, in line with the national average. The national average of violence against another person was 16.2 compared to the York average of 17.5. The figures for crime statistics were all recorded during the 2006–07 financial year.\n\nThe table below details the population change since 1801.\n\nChristianity is the religion with the largest following in York, with 59.5% residents reporting themselves as Christian in the 2011 census. The percentages following each non-Christian religion were all below the national average for England, but those responding as \"No Religion\" was higher than the national average.\n\nThere are 33 active Anglican churches in York, which is home to the Archbishop of York and the Mother Church, York Minster, and administrative centre of the northern province of the Church of England and the Diocese of York.\nYork is in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Middlesbrough, has eight Roman Catholic churches and a number of different Catholic religious orders.\n\nLeaders of different Christian denominations work together across the city, forming a network of churches known as One Voice York.\n\nOther Christian denominations that are active in York include the Religious Society of Friends who have three meeting houses, Methodists within the York Circuit of The Methodist Church York and Hull District, and Unitarians. St Columba's United Reformed Church in Priory Street, originally built for the Presbyterians, dates from 1879. There is one mosque in York and the city also has a UK Islamic Mission centre. Various Buddhist traditions are represented in the city and around York.\n\nYork's economy is based on the service industry, which in 2000 was responsible for 88.7% of employment in the city. The service industries include public sector employment, health, education, finance, information technology (IT) and tourism that accounts for 10.7% of employment. Tourism has become an important element of the economy, with the city offering a wealth of historic attractions, of which York Minster is the most prominent, and a variety of cultural activities. As a holiday destination York was the 6th most visited English city by UK residents (2014–16) and the 13th most visited by overseas visitors (2016).\n\nA 2014 report, based on 2012 data, stated that the city receives 6.9 million visitors annually; they contribute £564 million to the economy and support over 19,000 jobs. In the 2017 Condé Nast Traveller survey of readers, York rated 12th among The 15 Best Cities in the UK for visitors.\n\nUnemployment in York was low at 4.2% in 2008 compared to the United Kingdom national average of 5.3%. The biggest employer in York is the City of York Council, with over 7,500 employees. Employers with more than 2,000 staff include Aviva (formerly Norwich Union Life), Network Rail, Northern, York Hospitals NHS Trust and the University of York. Other major employers include British Telecom, CPP Group, Nestlé, NFU Mutual and a number of railway companies.\nToday's economic position is very different from the 1950s, when its prosperity was based on chocolate manufacturing and the railways. This position continued until the early 1980s when 30% of the workforce were employed by just five employers and 75% of manufacturing jobs were in four companies. Most industry around the railway has gone, including the carriage works (known as Asea Brown Boveri or ABB at the time of closure), which at its height in the 1880s employed 5,500 people, but closed in the mid-1990s. York is the headquarters of the confectionery manufacturer Nestlé York (formerly Nestlé Rowntrees) and home to the \"KitKat\" and eponymous \"Yorkie\" bar chocolate brands. Terry's chocolate factory, makers of the \"Chocolate Orange\", was located in the city; but it closed on 30 September 2005, when production was moved by its owners, Kraft Foods, to Poland. The historic factory building is situated next to the Knavesmire racecourse.\n\nOn 20 September 2006, Nestlé announced that it would cut 645 jobs at the Rowntree's chocolate factory in York. This came after a number of other job losses in the city at Aviva, British Sugar and Terry's chocolate factory. Despite this, the employment situation in York remained fairly buoyant until the effects of the late 2000s recession began to be felt.\nSince the closure of the carriage works, the site has been developed into offices. York's economy has been developing in the areas of science, technology and the creative industries. The city became a founding National Science City with the creation of a science park near the University of York. Between 1998 and 2008 York gained 80 new technology companies and 2,800 new jobs in the sector.\n\nRegional gross value added figures for York, at 2005 basic prices in millions of pounds sterling, are:\n\nUnder the requirements of the Municipal Corporations Act 1835, York City Council appointed a watch committee which established a police force and appointed a chief constable. On 1 June 1968 the York City, East Riding of Yorkshire and North Riding of Yorkshire police forces were amalgamated to form the York and North East Yorkshire Police. Since 1974, Home Office policing in York has been provided by the North Yorkshire Police. The force's central headquarters for policing York and nearby Selby are in Fulford.\nStatutory emergency fire and rescue service is provided by the North Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service, whose headquarters is at Northallerton.\n\nThe city's first hospital, York County Hospital, opened in 1740 in Monkgate funded by public subscription. It closed in 1976 when it was replaced by York Hospital, which opened the same year and gained Foundation status in April 2007. It has 524 adult inpatient beds and 127 special purpose beds providing general healthcare and some specialist inpatient, daycase and outpatient services. It is also known as York District Hospital and YDH.\n\nThe Yorkshire Ambulance Service NHS Trust was formed on 1 July 2006 bringing together South Yorkshire Ambulance Service, West Yorkshire Metropolitan Ambulance Service and the North and East Yorkshire parts of Tees, East and North Yorkshire Ambulance Service to provide patient transport. Other forms of health care are provided for locally by clinics and surgeries.\n\nThe city's first subscription library opened in 1794. The first free public library, the York Library, was built on Clifford Street in 1893, to mark Queen Victoria's jubilee. A new building was erected on Museum Street in 1927, and this is still the library today; it was extended in 1934 and 1938.\n\nSince 1998 waste management has been co-ordinated via the York and North Yorkshire Waste Partnership. York's Distribution Network Operator for electricity is CE Electric UK; there are no power stations in the city. Yorkshire Water, which has a local water extraction plant on the River Derwent at Elvington, manages York's drinking and waste water.\nThe city has a Magistrates' Court, and a Crown Court and County Court too.\nThe Crown Court House was designed by the architect John Carr, next to the then prison (including execution area).\n\nBetween 1773 and 1777, the Grand Jury House was replaced by John Carr's elegant Court House for the Assizes of the whole county. The Female Prison was built opposite and mirrors the court building positioned around a circular lawn which became known as the \"Eye of the Ridings\", or the \"Eye of York\".\n\n1776 saw the last recorded instance of a wife hanged and burnt for poisoning her husband. Horse theft was a capital offence. The culprits of lesser crimes were brought to court by the city constables and would face a fine. The corporation employed a \"common informer\" whose task was to bring criminals to justice.\n\nThe former prison is now the Castle Museum but still contains the cells.\n\nYork's location on the River Ouse and in the centre of the Vale of York means that it has always had a significant position in the nation's transport system. The city grew up as a river port at the confluence of the River Ouse and the River Foss. The Ouse was originally a tidal river, accessible to seagoing ships of the time. Today both of these rivers remain navigable, although the Foss is only navigable for a short distance above the confluence. A lock at Naburn on the Ouse to the south of York means that the river in York is no longer tidal.\n\nUntil the end of the 20th century, the Ouse was used by barges to carry freight between York and the port of Hull. The last significant such traffic was the supply of newsprint to the local newspaper's Foss-side print works, which continued until 1997. Today navigation is almost exclusively leisure-oriented.\nLike most cities founded by the Romans, York is well served by long-distance trunk roads. The city lies at the intersection of the A19 road from Doncaster to Tyneside, the A59 road from Liverpool to York, the A64 road from Leeds to Scarborough, and the A1079 road from York to Hull. The A64 road provides the principal link to the motorway network, linking York to both the A1(M) and the M1 motorways at a distance of about from the city. The transpennine M62 motorway is less than away providing links to Manchester and Liverpool.\nThe city is surrounded on all sides by an outer ring road, at a distance of some from the centre of the city, which allows through traffic to by-pass the city. The street plan of the historic core of the city dates from medieval times and is not suitable for modern traffic. As a consequence many of the routes inside the city walls are designated as car free during business hours or restrict traffic entirely. To alleviate this situation, five bus based park and ride sites operate in York. The sites are located towards the edge of the urban area, with easy access from the ring road, and allow out of town visitors to complete their journey into the city centre by bus.\nYork has been a major railway centre since the first line arrived in 1839 at the beginning of the railway age. For many years the city hosted the headquarters and works of the North Eastern Railway. York railway station is a principal stop on the East Coast Main Line from London to Newcastle and Edinburgh. It takes less than two hours to get to York from London by rail, with at least 25 direct trains each weekday. The station is also served by long distance trains on CrossCountry services linking Edinburgh and Newcastle with destinations in south and west England via Birmingham. TransPennine Express provide a frequent service of semi-fast trains linking York to Newcastle, Scarborough, Leeds, Manchester, Manchester Airport, and Liverpool. Local stopping services by Northern connect York to Selby, Harrogate, Hull, Leeds, Sheffield and many intermediate points, as well as many other stations across Greater Manchester and Lancashire.\n\nYork has an airfield at the former RAF Elvington, some south-east of the city centre, which is the home of the Yorkshire Air Museum. Elvington is used for private aviation. In 2003 plans were drafted to expand the site for business aviation or a full commercial service.\nYork is linked to Manchester Airport by an hourly direct TransPennine Express train, giving access to the principal airport serving the north of England, with connections to many destinations in Europe, North America, Africa, and Asia. Leeds Bradford Airport is closer to York but the hourly \"York Air Coach\" service operated by First York was withdrawn as of April 2009. Leeds Bradford Airport provides connections to most major European and North African airports as well as Pakistan and New York City.\n\nPublic transport within the city is largely bus-based. First York operates the majority of the city's local bus services, as well as the York park and ride services. York was the location of the first implementation of FirstGroup's experimental and controversial FTR bus concept, which sought to confer the advantages of a modern tramway system at a lower cost. The service was withdrawn following an election manifesto pledge by the Labour Group at the 2011 local government election. Transdev York also operates a large number of local bus services. Open-top tourist and sightseeing buses are operated by Transdev York on behalf of City Sightseeing.\n\nRural services, linking local towns and villages with York, are provided by a number of companies with Transdev York, EYMS, and Reliance operating most of them.\nLonger-distance bus services are provided by a number of operators, including Arriva Yorkshire services to Selby, East Yorkshire Motor Services routes to Hull, Beverley, Driffield, Market Weighton and Pocklington, and Harrogate Bus Company services to Knaresborough and Harrogate. Yorkshire Coastliner links Leeds via York with Scarborough, Filey, Bridlington and Whitby.\n\nEnglish local authorities are required to produce Local Transport Plans (LTPs), strategies for developing local integrated transport as part of a longer-term vision. LTPs are used by central government to allocate funding for transport schemes. The final Local Transport Plan 2006–2011 for York was submitted to central government in March 2006. The plan addresses the fact that traffic in York is predicted to grow considerably over the coming years. The key aims of the plan are to ease congestion and improve accessibility, air quality and safety. Major funding allocations earmarked for the first five years of the plan's life span include outer ring road improvements, improved management of the highway network, improvements to the bus network including park and ride services, provision of off-road walking and cycling routes, air quality improvements and safety measures.\n\nThe University of York's main campus is on the southern edge of the city at Heslington. The Department of Archaeology and the graduate Centres for Eighteenth Century Studies and Medieval Studies are located in the historic King's Manor in the city centre. It was York's only institution with university status until 2006, when the more centrally located York St John University, formerly an autonomous college of the University of Leeds, attained full university status. The city formerly hosted a branch of The University of Law before it moved to Leeds. The University of York also has a medical school, Hull York Medical School.\n\nThe city has two major further education institutions. York College is an amalgamation of York Technical College and York Sixth Form College. Students there study a very wide range of academic and vocational courses, and range from school leavers and sixth formers to people training to make career moves. Askham Bryan College offers further education courses, foundation and honours degrees, specialising in more vocational subjects such as horticulture, agriculture, animal management and even golf course management.\nThere are 70 local council schools with over 24,000 pupils in the City of York Council area. The City of York Council manages most primary and secondary schools within the city. Primary schools cover education from ages 5–11, with some offering early years education from age 3. From 11–16 education is provided by 10 secondary schools, four of which offer additional education up to the age of 18. In 2007 Oaklands Sports College and Lowfield Comprehensive School merged to become one school known as York High School.\n\nYork also has several private schools. St Peter's School was founded in 627. The scholar Alcuin, who went on to serve Charlemagne, taught there. It was also the school attended by Guy Fawkes. Two schools have Quaker origins: Bootham School is co-educational and The Mount School is all-girls. On the outskirts of the city is Queen Margaret's School. Pupils from The Minster School, York sing in York Minster choir.\n\nThe Theatre Royal, which was established in 1744, produces an annual pantomime which attracts loyal audiences from around the country to see its veteran star, Berwick Kaler. The Grand Opera House and Joseph Rowntree Theatre also offer a variety of productions. The city is home to the Riding Lights Theatre Company, which as well as operating a busy national touring department, also operates a busy youth theatre and educational departments. York is also home to a number of amateur dramatic groups. The Department of Theatre, Film and Television and Student Societies of the University of York put on public drama performances.\nThe York Mystery Plays are performed in public at intervals, using texts based on the original medieval plays of this type that were performed by the guilds – often with specific connections to the subject matter of each play. (For instance the Shipwrights' Play is the \"Building of Noah's Ark\" and the fish-sellers and mariners the \"Landing of Noah's Ark\"). The York Cycle of Mystery Plays or Pageants is the most complete in England. Originally performed from wagons at various locations around the city from the 14th century until 1570, they were revived in 1951 during the Festival of Britain, when York was one of the cities with a regional festival. They became part of the York City Festival every three years and later four years. They were mostly produced in a temporary open-air theatre within the ruins of St. Mary's Abbey, using some professional but mostly amateur actors. Lead actors have included Christopher Timothy and Robson Green (in the role of Christ) and Dame Judi Dench as a school girl, in 1951, 1954 and 1957. (She remains a Patron of the plays). The cycle was presented in the Theatre Royal in 1992 and 1996, within York Minster in 2000 and in 2002, 2006 and 2010 by Guild groups from wagons in the squares, in the Dean's Park, or at the Eye of York. They go around the streets, recreating the original productions. In 2012, the York Mystery Plays were performed between 2 and 27 August at St. Mary's Abbey in the York Museum Gardens.\n\nThe Academy of St Olave's, a chamber orchestra which gives concerts in St Olave's Church, Marygate, is one of the music groups that perform regularly in York. A former church, St Margaret's, Walmgate, is the National Centre for Early Music, which hosts concerts, broadcasts, competitions and events including the York Early Music Festival. Students, staff and visiting artists of York St John University music department regularly perform lunchtime concerts in the University chapel. The staff and students of the University of York also perform in the city.\n\nOne of the notable local products is York ham, a mild-flavoured ham with delicate pink colouring. It is traditionally served with Madeira Sauce. As a lightly smoked, dry-cured ham, York ham is saltier but milder in flavour than other European dry-cured hams. Folklore has it that the oak construction for York Minster provided the sawdust for smoking the ham. Robert Burrow Atkinson's butchery shop, in Blossom Street, is the birthplace of the original \"York Ham\" and the reason why the premises became famous.\n\nEach September since 1997, York has held an annual Festival of Food and Drink. The aim of the festival is to spotlight food culture in York and North Yorkshire by promoting local food production. The Festival attracts up to 150,000 visitors over 10 days, from all over the country.\n\nIn the centre of York, in St Helen's Square, there is the York branch of Bettys Café Tea Rooms. Bettys' founder, Frederick Belmont, travelled on the maiden voyage of the \"Queen Mary\" in 1936. He was so impressed by the splendour of the ship that he employed the Queen Mary's designers and craftsmen to turn a dilapidated furniture store in York into an elegant café in St Helen's Square. A few years after Bettys opened in York war broke out, and the basement 'Bettys Bar' became a favourite haunt of the thousands of airmen stationed around York. 'Bettys Mirror', on which many of them engraved their signatures with a diamond pen, remains on display today as a tribute to them.\n\nThe Assize of Ale is an annual event in the city where people in medieval costume take part in a pub crawl to raise money for local charities. It has its origins in the 13th century, when an Assize of Bread and Ale was used to regulate the quality of goods. The current version was resurrected in the 1990s by the Sheriff of York and is led by the Guild of Scriveners. In June 2015 York CAMRA listed 101 pubs on its map of the city centre, some of which are hundreds of years old. These include the Golden Fleece, Ye Olde Starre Inne, noted for its sign which has spanned the street since 1733, and The Kings Arms, often photographed during floods. On 18 June 2016, York CAMRA undertook a \"Beer Census\" and found 328 unique real ales being served in over 200 pubs in York, reinforcing the city's reputation as a top UK beer destination.\n\nThe Knavesmire, home of York Racecourse, plays host to Yorkshire's largest beer festival every September run by York CAMRA – York Beer & Cider Festival. It is housed in a marquee opposite the grandstand of the racecourse in the enclosure and in 2016 will offer over 450 real ales and over 100 ciders.\n\nIn 2010 York's city council and a number of heritage organisations submitted a bid for York's entire city centre to become a UNESCO World Heritage Site. This nomination, to the UK's Department for Culture, Media and Sport would have included York on a list of tentative sites to be reviewed by UNESCO itself. York's bid failed, leading to 'disappointment' from the team involved. This indirectly led to the city making a successful bid to be part of the UNESCO Creative Cities Network as a city of \"Media Arts\". It is the fourth of these cities, following Lyon, France; Enghien-les-Bains, France; and Sapporo, Japan.\n\nThe York area is served by a local newspaper, \"The Press\" (known as the \"Evening Press\" until April 2006), \"The York Advertiser\" newspaper (based at \"The Press\" on Walmgate), and three local radio stations Minster FM, Vale Radio and BBC Radio York. Local arts, culture news and events are covered by One&Other. Another digital news website is YorkMix run by former print journalists, that incorporates Local News; What's On; Food & Drink; Things To Do and Business sections with articles written by residents and local journalists. In August 2016 YorkMix was nominated in two categories in the O2 Media Awards for Yorkshire and The Humber.\n\nOn 27 November 2013, Ofcom awarded the 12-year local TV licence for the York area to a consortium entitled The York Channel, with the channel due to be on air in spring 2015.\n\nYork St John University has a Film and Television Production department with links to many major industrial partners. The department hosts an annual festival of student work and a showcase of other regional films.\n\nThe University of York has its own television station York Student Television (YSTV) and two campus newspapers \"Nouse\" and \"York Vision\". Its radio station URY is the longest running legal independent radio station in the UK, and was voted BBC Radio 1 Student Radio Station of the Year 2005.\n\nThe city's football team is York City who are competing in National League North as of the 2017–18 season. York have played as high as the old Second Division but are best known for their 'giant killing' status in cup competitions, having reached the FA Cup semi-final in 1955 and beaten Manchester United 3–0 during the 1995–96 League Cup. Their matches are played at Bootham Crescent.\n\nYork also has a strong rugby league history. York FC, later known as York Wasps, formed in 1901, were one of the oldest rugby league clubs in the country but the effects of a move to the out of town Huntington Stadium, poor results and falling attendances led to their bankruptcy in 2002. The supporters formed a new club, York City Knights, who now play at the same stadium in Championship 1. There are three amateur rugby league teams in York, New Earswick All Blacks, York Acorn and Heworth. York International 9s is a rugby league nines tournament which takes place in York each year.\nAmateur side York Lokomotive compete in the Rugby League Conference.\n\nAn open rowing club York City Rowing Club is located underneath Lendal Bridge. The rowing clubs of The University of York, York St John University Rowing Club and Leeds University Boat Club as well as York City RC use the Ouse for training. There are two sailing clubs close to York, both of which sail dinghies on the River Ouse. The York RI (Railway Institute) Sailing Club has a club bouse and boat park on the outskirts of Bishopthorpe, a village to the south of York. The Yorkshire Ouse Sailing Club has a club house in the village of Naburn, south of York.\nYork Racecourse was established in 1731 and from 1990 has been awarded Northern Racecourse of the Year for 17 years running. This major horseracing venue is located on the Knavesmire and sees thousands flocking to the city every year for the 15 race meetings. The Knavesmire Racecourse also hosted Royal Ascot in 2005. In August racing takes place over the four-day Ebor Festival that includes the Ebor Handicap dating from 1843.\n\nMotorbike speedway once took place at York. The track in the Burnholme Estate was completed in 1930 and a demonstration event staged. In 1931 the track staged team and open events and the York team took part in the National Trophy.\n\nYork hosts the UK Snooker Championship, which is the second biggest ranking tournament in the sport, at the York Barbican Centre.\n\nOn 6 July 2014, York hosted the start of Stage 2 of the 2014 Tour de France. Starting the Départ Fictif from York Racecourse, the riders travelled through the city centre to the Départ Actuel on the A59 just beyond the junction with the Outer Ring Road heading towards Knaresborough. In 2015, the inaugural Tour de Yorkshire was held as a legacy event to build on the popularity of the previous year, with the Day 2 stage finishing in York.\n\nThe most notable sportsmen to come from York in recent years are footballers Lucy Staniforth, Under-20 World Cup winning captain Lewis Cook and former England manager Steve McClaren\n\nYork Minster was the origin (meridian) of the 6 inch and 1:2500 Ordnance Survey maps for Yorkshire.\n\n\n\n\nOn 22 October 2014, it announced the first 'temporal twinning' with Jórvík, the Viking city on the site of York from 866 to 1066.\n\n\n\n"}
