{"id": "7579338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7579338", "title": "Abu'l-Musafir al-Fath", "text": "Abu'l-Musafir al-Fath\n\nAbu'l-Musafir al-Fath (died 929) was the last Sajid amir of Azerbaijan (928–929). He was the son of Muhammad al-Afshin.\n\nIn 928 Abu'l-Musafir was invested with the government of Azerbaijan by the caliph after Abu'l-Musafir's uncle Yusuf Ibn Abi'l-Saj was killed. After only one and a half years of rule, however, he was poisoned in Ardabil by one of his slaves. The Sajid dynasty came to an end with his death; he was succeeded as governor by Wasif al-Shirvani.\n"}
{"id": "56130611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56130611", "title": "Albert Cocksedge", "text": "Albert Cocksedge\n\nAlbert Cocksedge (30 January 1884 – 25 January 1928), known in the early years of his career as Young Cocksedge, was a British boxer of the early 20th century, who held English titles at various weights, and fought for a world title, in the era before weights were standardised, fighting at weights between 98 and 112lbs.\n\nBorn in Leicester in 1884, Cocksedge won his first title in 1901, knocking out Young Tiddler in December that year to win the English 7-stone title. In October 1904 he fought a draw against Frank Morcombe for the latter's English 106lbs title, winning a rematch the following month to take the title. In December he was beaten by the Australian Tibby Watson, who would win the 108lbs world title the following month. In January 1905 he lost in a fight for the 7st 8lbs championship belt of the world to Johnny Hughes, a man who had also beaten him eight months earlier. In October 1906 he beat Charlie Dew on points to take the English 104lbs title, successfully defending against Dew two months later but losing it to Bert Chatterton in February 1907. He regained it in June that year, stopping Chatterton in the fourth round. In October 1907 he beat Charlie Exall for the 106lbs title, and in February 1908 beat Harry McDermott on points for the 108lbs title. In April 1908 he fought a draw with Sid Smith before successfully defending his 106lbs title two months later against Harry Badger. On 7 December 1908 he beat Jack Guyon on points at the National Sporting Club. In January 1909 he beat Smith and Watson, before losing his 108lbs title to Smith in February. He fought Smith again in March, also ending as loser. In September 1909 he fought a draw against Sam Kellar for the English 112lbs title. The two met again in October, with referee Tom Gamble stopping the fight in the fourth round, deciding neither man was trying. In April 1910 he beat McDermott on points over 20 rounds to take the English 110lbs title, losing it two months later to Bill Kyne. In October 1911 he challenged Bill Ladbury for the 112lbs title, Ladbury stopping him in the seventh round.\n\nCocksedge continued to fight regularly until around 1914, and continued in both competitive and exhibition bouts, having possibly his final competitive fight in 1922 (beating Billy Shephard), and an exhibition against Jimmy Wilde a few years later.\n\nIn his later years he was resident at 1, Paradise Lane in Leicester, and worked as a shoe scourer.\n\nCocksedge was walking to a whist drive in Leicester on 25 January 1928, when he was knocked down and killed by an RAF car. He was 43.\n"}
{"id": "373975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373975", "title": "Apocalypse (Marvel Comics)", "text": "Apocalypse (Marvel Comics)\n\nApocalypse (En Sabah Nur) is a fictional supervillain appearing in comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is one of the world's first mutants, and was originally a principal villain for the original X-Factor team and now for the X-Men and related spinoff teams. Created by writer Louise Simonson and artist Jackson Guice, Apocalypse first appeared in \"X-Factor\" #5 (May 1986).\n\nSince his introduction, the character has appeared in a number of \"X-Men\" titles, including spin-offs and several limited series. Apocalypse has also been featured in various forms of media. In 2016, Oscar Isaac portrayed the villain in the film \"\". In 2009, Apocalypse was ranked as IGN's 24th Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time.\n\nWhile writing the first five issues of \"X-Factor\", Bob Layton dropped hints of a villain operating behind the scenes and leading the Alliance of Evil (mentioned in \"X-Factor\" #4, May 1986). Layton intended to reveal this character to be the Daredevil villain the Owl on the final page of \"X-Factor\" #5. However, Layton left the book after writing this issue and was replaced by writer Louise Simonson. Editor Bob Harras said that the character arose because of storytelling needs: \"All I had communicated to Louise was my desire that an A-level, first class character be introduced. I wanted a Magneto-level villain who would up the stakes and give the X-Factor team reason to exist.\"\n\nIn a 2011 interview with \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\", explained that when the \"X-Factor\" series was created, the original five X-Men were pulled out of the purview of Chris Claremont, who was writing \"The Uncanny X-Men\". However, Simonson felt that the series need an archenemy, or what Simonson called \"a big, bad villain\", and conceived of Apocalypse. Simonson described the character thus:\n\n\"Apocalypse is the first mutant – a brilliant shape-shifter who is virtually immortal – and sees himself as the father of mutantkind…In his early years, which I covered in the \"X-Factor Forever\" miniseries . . . Apocalypse encountered the Celestials and realized there was a time when humanity might be judged unworthy and destroyed. Consequently, he's been using Darwinian principles - survival of the fittest - to kill off the weak and force the survivors to grow stronger, to push humanity to get better and more powerful. He considers himself the Apocalypse of modern man and the father of what humanity will come next - Mutantkind. Where Magneto sees mutants as the next step of evolution and strives to protect all mutants, Apocalypse believes in absolute survival of the fittest - so if the Hulk, for example, is stronger than [the X-Men's] Colossus...well, in Apocalypse's world he would say, 'Bye, bye, comrade.'\"\n\nHarras also commented, \"As soon as I saw the sketch by Walter [Simonson] and heard Louise's take on him, I knew we had the character I wanted. Jackson [Guice] redrew the page, patching in the shadowy Apocalypse where the Owl had been. But the genesis was clearly Walt and Weezie's.\" Guice admitted to difficulty recalling the details behind redrawing the last page of issue #5: \"The best I can remember now is putting his look together pretty much right on the pencil page—just adding bits of costuming business which hinted toward his true appearance when we'd eventually see him in full reveal. I don't believe there was even a character sketch done for him at that point—I planned on making sense of it all later on, but by then I was gone and others had that concern.\" Apocalypse's silhouette in issue #5 does not match up with his full appearance in issue #6, suggesting the possibility that Guice was using Simonson's sketch as a reference for issue #6 but did not have access to it earlier, necessitating that he come up with his own design for issue #5. Walter Simonson himself has downplayed his role in the character's creation, saying that Guice was responsible for creating the design and that he, Simonson, merely modified it later: \"I did not co-create Apocalypse. However, I wish I had. Louise Simonson and Jackson Guice created him. He appeared in a few panels at the end of one of Jackson’s last X-FACTORs, so I am the first artist to use him extensively in stories. And I kind of juiced up his physique a bit.\"\n\nBob Harras said on the character of Apocalypse:\n\nAlthough the character first appeared in 1986, he was retroactively said to have been present during previously published stories. The unnamed benefactor of the Living Monolith in \"Marvel Graphic Novel\" #17 (1985) was later identified as Apocalypse in disguise. \"Classic X-Men\" #25 revealed that years earlier, Apocalypse encountered the terrorist Moses Magnum and granted him superhuman power.\n\nDuring his run on \"Cable\", Robert Weinberg planned a story to reveal that Apocalypse was the third Summers brother, a mysterious sibling to the mutants Cyclops and Havok. But Weinberg left the book before he could go along with his plan and the third Summers brother was revealed to be the mutant Gabriel Summers, aka Vulcan.\n\nApocalypse was the principal adversary in the mid-1980s \"X-Men\" spin-off series \"X-Factor\" (1986–1991), until being apparently killed at the climax of issue #68 (July 1991). Since then, the character has died and been resurrected several times thanks to his power and advanced alien technology. His name En Sabah Nur was revealed in Cable #6 (Dec 1993) and his birthplace (Egypt) and the origin of his technology, were revealed in \"X-Force\" #37 (August 1994). According to Marvel, the name translates as \"The First One\" (although, in reality, the translation is considered grammatically incorrect, as it means \"The First/Morning Light\" [En-(\"The\") + Sabah- (\"Morning\") + Nur- (\"Light\")] ). It is later revealed in the origin story \"Rise of Apocalypse\" that he is possibly the first mutant (meaning, in this case, a human being born with the X-gene), born 5,000 years ago. The character gained greater popularity in 1995 when the storyline \"Age of Apocalypse\" featured an alternate timeline in which Apocalypse has conquered much of planet Earth.\nThe character was reincarnated in the pages of \"Uncanny X-Force\" #1 as a small boy with no memory of his previous incarnation. The boy was named Evan Sabahnur. In 2012 the adult, villainous version of Apocalypse returned in the series \"Uncanny Avengers\". His origins are further explored in the storyline \"Apocalypse Wars\".\n\nThe being who would later be called Apocalypse was born thousands of years ago in Aqaba. He was born with the mutant X-gene, and possibly the first living being on Earth to express it. Because of his gray skin and blue lips, his people abandoned him as an infant. He was rescued by Baal of the Sandstormers who saw the child's potential power and will to survive. Baal named him En Sabah Nur, which Marvel translates as \"The First One\". The Sandstormers lived by the credo of survival of the fittest, believing that only those who are strong enough to survive hardship and direct conflict are worthy of life. It is also revealed during the Apocalypse Wars that, while still a young boy, En Sabah Nur was very generous and selfless, to the chagrin of Baal. A time-displaced Evan Sabah Nur and All-New X-Men Beast tried to save En Sabah Nur, but he allowed himself to be captured to help them escape.\n\nAround this time, the time-traveller Kang the Conqueror arrived in Egypt and assumed the identity of Pharaoh Rama-Tut. Knowing who En Sabah Nur was fated to become and where he was, Rama-Tut sent his General Ozymandias and an army to destroy the Sandstormers and find the young Apocalypse. En Sabah Nur and Baal were injured and sought refuge in a cave. Before he died, Baal revealed advanced alien technology hidden in the cave, left behind by the deity-like aliens known as Celestials. Vowing revenge on Rama-Tut, En Sabah Nur entered the Pharaoh's city posing as a slave and drew the romantic attention of Ozymandias's sister, Nephri. On seeing the mutant's true appearance, Nephri rejected him and turned to her brother for protection. Heartbroken, En Sabah Nur's rage caused his mutant abilities to fully emerge. Rampaging, he renamed himself Apocalypse. Rama-Tut fled and En Sabah Nur used the Celestial technology to transform his former tormentor Ozymandias into a blind clairvoyant made of living stone, now enslaved to Apocalypse. As the years went on, Apocalypse found he no longer aged.\n\nIt is revealed in the series \"S.H.I.E.L.D.\" that Apocalypse at some point in the days of Ancient Egypt joined forces with the Brotherhood of the Shield to successfully fend off a Brood invasion. Also present were Imhotep and a man who was either the moon god called Khonshu or his first Moon Knight avatar/champion.\n\nAs the millennia pass, Apocalypse travels around planet Earth, convincing civilizations that he is a deity (inspiring different myths as a result) and manipulating them into fighting wars. He justifies that this encourages \"growth, judgment, and destruction\". Apocalypse's progeny become the Clan Akkaba. Apocalypse encounters the near-immortal human offshoot race known as Eternals, primarily the members Ikaris and Sersi, who refer to him as their \"Ancient Nemesis\". At different points, Apocalypse uses his Celestial technology to enter periods of suspended animation, leaving Clan Akkaba and Ozymandias to act in his stead.\n\nIn 1013 AD, Apocalypse seeks to destroy the Asgardian Thor, who he knows will cause him trouble in the future, according to information obtained from Rama-Tut, yet the plans are foiled by Odin. In the 12th century, Apocalypse encounters the Eternal Sersi again while awakening latent mutant powers in a crusader named Bennet du Paris, also known as Exodus. In 1459, Apocalypse defeats Vlad Tepes (Vlad the Impaler) in Romania, who later becomes the vampire more popularly known as Count Dracula.\n\nIn 1859, Apocalypse encounters British scientist Nathaniel Essex and learns more about the nature of mutants. Apocalypse uses his Celestial technology to transform Essex into the superhuman being Mister Sinister. He then coerces Sinister and the Hellfire Club into aiding his plans for global conquest, but Sinister concludes that these plans are madness and betrays Apocalypse, forcing him back into hibernation. In 1897, Count Dracula attacks the Clan Akkaba in revenge for his defeat at Apocalypse's hands, forcing the Clan to revive their master from suspended animation. Apocalypse defeats the vampire again, this time with help from Abraham Van Helsing. Eventually, Apocalypse enters hibernation again, expecting to remain so for possibly two centuries, by which point mutants should be more common on Earth.\n\nAfter many years of suspended animation, Apocalypse awakens nearly a century earlier than planned due to the arrival of the time-traveling mutant Cable (ironically, Cable had traveled to this point in time hoping to prevent the ancient mutant from awakening). Apocalypse decides the Earth is ready for further examination and testing. He grants superhuman powers to the terrorist known as Moses Magnum, who then tests the X-Men and the Avengers. Apocalypse later briefly employs the Alliance of Evil to capture the mutant Michael Nowlan, who can boost the power of other mutants. This plan brings Apocalypse into direct conflict with the first incarnation of X-Factor, when the team comprised the original X-Men.\n\nApocalypse then recruits mutants to serve as his personal guard, known as the Four Horsemen. Among them is Angel, AKA Warren Worthington III, whom Apocalypse has corrupted and turned into a cyborg called Death. Warren Worthington regains his identity and helps his friends defeat Apocalypse, adopting the new codename Archangel. Apocalypse escapes with his new recruit, the Morlock called Caliban, while X-Factor then takes his Celestial spaceship as a base.\n\nDuring \"The Evolutionary War\", the High Evolutionary plans to rid the Earth of those he feels are preventing evolution. Believing this disrupts the natural order and his own plans, Apocalypse battles the High Evolutionary. Following the genetic manipulation of Caliban, Apocalypse declines an alliance with the Asgardian villain Loki and other villains conspiring to unleash \"Acts of Vengeance\". This results in a brief fight between Apocalypse and Loki.\n\nApocalypse learns of Sinister's intention to create an adversary powerful enough to destroy him: Nathan Christopher Charles Summers, the son of Scott Summers and Madelyne Pryor. Apocalypse, viewing him as a threat and realizing that Nathan's energy is the very energy that awoke him all those months earlier, sends his newly formed group, the Riders of the Storm, to abduct the Summers child. Apocalypse at this time had conquered the city of Attilan, home of the Inhumans, as well as enslaved part of its population. X-Factor, alongside the Inhuman Royal Family, attacks Apocalypse's lunar stronghold. Although Apocalypse is severely defeated, the young Nathan is infected with a techno-organic virus and is sent to the future with a woman named Askani to be cured.\n\nIn the future, Apocalypse has conquered the Earth and ruled until the 39th century. By this time, Apocalypse's body had grown feeble: he becomes aware of the young Nathan's presence in this time, but only succeeds in kidnapping a clone of the child which Askani created. Apocalypse plans to transfer his consciousness and power into the clone's stronger body, but perishes in combat with the (real) teenage Nathan. Nathan grows up to become the warrior Cable (while his clone grows up to become the mutant terrorist known as Stryfe) and travels back to the past to prevent Apocalypse's future domination of the planet.\n\nIn the present, Apocalypse is prematurely awoken from his regeneration chamber by his Riders (now calling themselves The Dark Riders), who inform their master that his Horsemen have kidnapped Cyclops and Jean Grey, supposedly under his instructions (in actuality, Mister Sinister, who was posing as Apocalypse). When attempting to rejuvenate himself again, Apocalypse is nearly killed by Stryfe who had arrived in the past to take revenge on Apocalypse. After a battle on the Moon with his former servants, the Dark Riders (who had joined Stryfe), Apocalypse is left for dead by Archangel.\n\nThe Dark Riders' new leader, Genesis (the adopted son of Cable, who had traveled to the present to ensure Apocalypse's rise and exact revenge on his father), plans to resurrect Apocalypse by sacrificing the lives of the people in villages neighboring Akkaba. During this time, Wolverine is held captive by Genesis, who attempts to restore Wolverine's lost adamantium skeleton and turn him into a Horseman as a gift for Apocalypse. Wolverine breaks free and kills Genesis along with nearly all of the Dark Riders. Genesis had built a sarcophagus with Apocalypse's likeness (which is empty, since Apocalypse had already revived).\n\nAfter a long healing slumber, Apocalypse, fully restored, awakens with Ozymandias at his side and quickly learns of the present danger: Onslaught. He observes the conflict between the psionic entity and Earth's heroes with Uatu the Watcher, who suggests to Apocalypse a course of action: an alliance with the one who hated him the most, Cable. Apocalypse surmises that Onslaught would be most vulnerable through the astral plane and that he needs Cable for actual physical transportation to this realm. Once on the astral plane, Apocalypse would remove the captive Franklin Richards, greatly weakening Onslaught. The plan succeeds, but is interrupted by the Invisible Woman, who had invisibly accompanied the pair, having suspected Apocalypse's motive in wanting to actually kill her son. However, the reprieve in battle gave Onslaught the time to escape, prolonging the conflict.\n\nFollowing the events of the \"Onslaught\" saga, the gamma-spawned powerhouse, the Hulk and his human alter ego, Banner, are split into two separate entities: Hulk now draws upon energy derived from Franklin Richards' pocket universe. Apocalypse recruits the Hulk to become his Horseman, War, with intentions of using the Hulk's nexus-energy to overcome the Celestials. To test this newest recruit, Apocalypse set War against the New World Order, a shadow cabinet organization that intends to conquer the planet. The New World Order in turn set the Juggernaut and the Absorbing Man against War, but both are easily defeated. Hulk comes to his senses after injuring his friend, Rick Jones. Despite this apparent setback, the incident was still a victory for Apocalypse as it was a successful testing of newly understood Celestial technology. Apocalypse activates the self-destruct mechanism on the sword of War, which the New World Order had obtained, destroying their headquarters.\n\nThe Hellfire Club later awakens Apocalypse's long-hidden Harbinger from its deep sleep: originally a normal man, whom Apocalypse in the 19th century once left to incubate for 100 years. Apocalypse releases his Horseman (Caliban) and his scribe Ozymandias from his possession, to fend for themselves, if they were to survive the coming events. Cable with the Avengers battles the Harbinger, but are unable to stop it. Apocalypse then appears, activating a bomb inside the Harbinger which would destroy all of New York, but Cable manages to prevent this disaster.\n\nWhen Magneto is disrupting Earth's magnetic field, Apocalypse sends a Skrull impersonating the mutant Astra (having dealt with the original Astra) to stop the Master of Magnetism.\n\nIntending to start an all-out war between the humans and the subterranean-dwelling Deviants as part of his plan to test the strong, Apocalypse sets off nuclear warheads at Lemuria, causing the Deviants to further mutate (which also restores Ikaris' father Virako to life). Apocalypse launches an attack at San Francisco, using a mentally controlled Deviant, Karkas, now a gigantic monster, that the Eternals are forced to battle. Apocalypse is confronted by his centuries-old foe, Ikaris, who now is a Prime Eternal. Although Apocalypse defeats Ikaris, the Eternal still succeeds in destroying his ship and thwarting his plan.\n\nSupposedly lost diaries of the mutant seer Destiny surfaced, telling of twelve beings that could defeat Apocalypse once and for all. Various mutants, all listed in the prophecy, are abducted by Apocalypse's Horsemen including a faction of the Skrulls. The Twelve legend was in fact a ruse, orchestrated by Apocalypse himself: once the Twelve are assembled, Apocalypse intended to use them to transform himself into a deitylike entity beyond the Celestials. It is revealed at the end of this story arc, that Apocalypse's physical form has been burned out due to the vast amount of energies he has under his control, forcing him to wear a bio-armor (like his future counterpart) and now plans to use Nate Grey as a host body for him to move his energy and consciousness into. The X-Men confront Apocalypse as he is close to merging with Nate, but are unable to stop him. Cyclops pushes Nate Grey out of the way, merging with Apocalypse instead. While the merge is successful, Apocalypse's aim for unlimited power is not and he attempts to complete the transformation by warping reality into various scenarios (see Ages of Apocalypse). Apocalypse hoped to lure the Twelve into empowering him with their energy, but eventually, the mutants realize their true predicament and Apocalypse teleports away.\n\nAn amnesiac and powerless cyborg Cyclops regains control of the merged form, but Apocalypse begins to re-emerge. Jean and Cable are alerted to his location in Egypt, where Jean in the end manages to free Cyclops by telepathically tearing out Apocalypse's essence from her husband's body, rendering Apocalypse in an incorporeal astral form, which Cable apparently destroys using his Psimitar.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2005 \"Decimation\" storyline, in which most of the mutants lost their powers, Apocalypse was revealed to be alive and well. The techno-organic virus, with which he long ago infected Cable, was revealed to be the means by which Apocalypse's spirit reconstituted itself. With only a drop of his blood into a vat of organs and blood, the virus would rewrite the genetic code of the material within to form a body for Apocalypse. Apocalypse awakes from a slumber in a tomb in Akkaba, recalling:\n\nAcross the world—helpless mutants slaughtered. Pogroms. Horror. ...Something has woken me from my slumber. Once, a sudden surge in worldwide mutant power stirred me from a similar sleep. Now—a plummet in global mutant capacity—has opened my eyes.\n\nApocalypse finds himself on a planet with its mutant population reduced to a fraction of what it had been, only a few hundred remaining out of the millions who populated earth prior to his demise at Cable's hands. Reappearing inside a Sphinx-shaped ship, Apocalypse confronts the X-Men with his newly assembled cadre of Horsemen on the front lawn of the X-Mansion. The Horseman Famine uses his powers to cause an intense feeling of hunger and weakness in the mutants and humans on the institute grounds. Apocalypse offers the mutants an elixir: his own blood, provided they join his side. Bent on becoming the new messiah for mutant-kind, Apocalypse approaches the Earth leaders at the United Nations in New York and issues an ultimatum: humanity would destroy ninety percent of its own population, putting man and mutant on level ground in anticipation of the final conflict when the worthy alone would survive - or Apocalypse would unleash his meta-plague on the planet and obliterate all humanity.\n\nIn the end, Apocalypse's horsemen are lost, Ozymandias betrays him, and he is forced to retreat by a combined assault of the X-Men and the Avengers. Ultimately, it is discovered that the Celestials \"lent\" their technology to Apocalypse, requiring as payment \"greater sufferings later\". He attempts to embrace death as an escape from his lifelong pact, only to find himself instantly resurrected and hearing a voice: \"We cannot let you die. Not yet. It is time Apocalypse… it is time\".\n\nIn a future timeline seen in the 2009 storyline \"Messiah War\", a greatly weakened Apocalypse is attacked by Stryfe and Bishop, but he survives the attack. Afterward, Apocalypse contacts Archangel in the future and begs him to kill him. Archangel refuses and instead hands over some of his techno organic wing blades to him, telling Apocalypse he no longer holds any control over him. Coming into contact with the blades rejuvenates Apocalypse and he offers to join forces with Archangel to kill Stryfe who is on the verge of killing X-Force, Cable, Bishop, as well as Hope Summers. Archangel takes Apocalypse to a Celestial ship, where Apocalypse is then fully restored and wants to avenge what Stryfe did to him. Just as Stryfe is on the verge of taking Hope for himself, Apocalypse and Archangel confront and defeat Stryfe. Apocalypse releases Hope into Cable's care, but says that he will return for her eventually. Apocalypse then drags Stryfe away, intending to use him as a new host body. Stryfe manages to escape and travels back in time to the present.\n\nIn the 2010 \"Heroic Age\" storyline, versions of Apocalypse and his Horsemen from a possible future appear in the Avengers Tower after Kang breaks time itself. After a fight with the Avengers, he and his Horsemen disappear.\n\nApocalypse's followers, the Clan Akkaba, manage to bring about Apocalypse's return, albeit in the form of a child they will indoctrinate. Upon learning of Apocalypse's return, X-Force seeks to kill him, but when they discover he is a child, Psylocke decides to protect him, believing they can rehabilitate him and train him as a force for good. To the shock of the rest of the team, Fantomex fatally shoots the child.\n\nIn a 2011 storyline, as X-Force succeed in stopping the Deathloks inside the World, the home of all Weapon projects, it is revealed that Ultimaton, guardian of the World, is keeping watch over an incubating young boy labeled En Sabah Nur, aged 847 days.\n\nDuring the 2012 storyline \"Dark Angel Saga\", it is revealed that Apocalypse had fathered a son with Autumn Rolfson and she kept this a secret from Apocalypse out of fear of what he would do to him. At the end of the storyline, it is revealed that Fantomex creates a clone Apocalypse which he helps raise to the age of a teenager in an artificial world, where the clone knows Fantomex as the kindly \"Uncle Cluster\" who taught him to use his abilities for good. The boy, code-named Genesis, helps X-force fight Archangel and when the battle is over, Fantomex enrolls him in the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning.\n\nIn \"Wolverine & the X-Men\" #4 (March 2012), Evan Sabahnur a.k.a. Genesis is admitted as a student to the Jean Grey School of Higher Learning, where his classmates notice his resemblance to Apocalypse. En is worried when a visiting Deathlok, who reveals to the students their likely futures, shows reluctance to do so with Evan. When Evan presses him, Deathlok informs him that this is what Evan is at the school to discover. Deathlok then tells Wolverine that Evan has great potential and may be a great savior, or a conqueror.\n\nAfter being called Kid Apocalypse by Kid Omega, Evan begins learning about Apocalypse and is saddened that he himself looks like the villain, raising the possibility of a future that Evan rejects. After saving Angel and discovering that he possesses the ability to see the essence of those he looks upon, Evan asks him to tell him what he sees when he looks at him. Angel tells En he sees only goodness inside him, which makes Evan happy, so he thanks Angel for being a good friend. In fact, Angel lied, as the only thing he could see was the dark image of Apocalypse.\n\nA new Brotherhood of Evil Mutants, led by Wolverine's son Daken, kidnaps Evan during a field trip to Genosha's remains. Hoping to sway the boy into becoming Apocalypse, the Brotherhood reveals to him that he is a clone and tells him of X-Force's assassination of the child En Sabah Nur from which he was cloned and the falsehood of his life under the tutelage of Fantomex. After the Brotherhood reveals that they have killed Fantomex and further tortures Evan, Daken tells En that he has a choice: either immediately ascend as Apocalypse and kill the Brotherhood as revenge for the death of \"Uncle Cluster\", or let the rest of X-Force die at the Brotherhood's hands to avenge the death of the original boy En Sabah Nur and to prevent X-Force from killing Evan the way they killed Apocalypse and Archangel.\n\nDaken offers Evan a suit of Apocalypse's Celestial armor to do with what he will, secretly planning to control the new Apocalypse through the psychic abilities of the Shadow King. After Deadpool's failed attempt to rescue Evan, the boy dons the Celestial armor to prevent Wolverine's death at Daken's hands and nearly kills Brotherhood members Sabretooth and Mystique. Enraged by the lies he has been told and filled with new-found power from Apocalypse's armor, Evan prepares to attack Wolverine himself, but Wolverine convinces him of the ultimate futility of revenge. Evan is later visited by Deadpool at the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning. Deadpool tells Evan he is not Apocalypse and that Deadpool will always be there for him when he needs him.\n\nLater Deadpool enlists Evan and Quentin's help to help him saving his daughter Eleanor Camacho from the Flag-Smasher, with Evan promising Quentin a bloodbath and some action to motivate him. He manages to save Ellie's life and proposes Deadpool to let Quentin erase from the girl's mind every memory of the ordeal. Deadpool loudly refuses and to Evan's surprise, he hugs him and tells him to stay in school.\n\nDuring the 2014 \"AXIS\" storyline, Evan is one of many mutants captured by the Red Skull on the island of Genosha. During a fierce battle between the Avengers, the united X-Men, as well as a group of villains who all attempt to defeat the Red Onslaught, Evan assists Kid Omega in preventing Red Onslaught's telepathy from affecting the combined combatants. In the energy released when the Scarlet Witch and Doctor Doom use the combined power of order and chaos spells to suppress the Red Skull's personality in favor of the sliver of Professor X's that still exists in his brain, Evan ascends to adulthood, stepping out of the rubble with a looming, muscular body and the presence and appearance of Apocalypse. Deadpool even comments on how changed Evan is. When Havok and Cyclops argue with Steve Rogers and the new Captain America over who should take custody of the body of Red Skull, Evan convinces the Summers brothers that Professor X is dead and they have other problems to deal with.\n\nActing as Apocalypse, 'En' vows to lead the mutants in an uprising, rallying the converted X-Men into helping him take Avengers Tower—now disregarded by the inverted Avengers after they captured almost all other heroes using Pym particles—to use as the site where he will detonate a Celestial-based 'gene-bomb' to wipe out all humans not carrying the X-gene. With only the inverted villains present at the original confrontation to oppose the inverted X-Men and Avengers, the gene bomb is nearly detonated, but is contained thanks to the sacrifice of Carnage. As Apocalypse broods on his failure, the decapitated Deadpool—converted to a peaceful version of himself by the inversion—convinces Apocalypse that now is the time to be heroic, proclaiming that nobody liked En Sabah Nur but everyone appreciated Evan, as he represented the hope that nurture could beat nature. Inspired by Deadpool's words, Apocalypse turns on the X-Men and the Avengers, allowing the Astonishing Avengers (along with non-inverted heroes Steve Rogers and Spider-Man) to retrieve the White Skull and undo the inversion. At the conclusion of the storyline, Evan is shown on the run with Deadpool.\n\nDuring the Apocalypse Wars, the Extraordinary X-Men travel thousands of years into Earth's future in order to rescue Colossus and his team of young mutants after they were investigating the sudden appearance of six hundred new mutant signatures in Tokyo. Arriving into Earth's future, the X-Men found themselves in a destroyed New York City and soon discovered that at some point Apocalypse had risen and what remained of Earth after his ascension became the Omega World, a huge structure composed of bubble worlds. The ones who survived the Great Trials lived on Omega World under Apocalypse's rule as he functioned as the Omega World's heart, keeping it alive, while his Horsemen functioned as its antibodies, cleansing the structure of anything that could harm their master. Omega World crumbled as the result of Apocalypse being fatally wounded by Nightcrawler. Storm was forced to take Apocalypse back to the present with them so they could undo the transformation of Colossus, who was turned into a Horseman, however, before he could restore Colossus back to normal, Apocalypse instead teleported him away, sending him to Clan Akkaba. It's left unknown if this Apocalypse was actually a future version Evan or Apocalypse himself using a new host body.\nApocalypse was kept at X-Haven, inside a cell specially built to contain him by Forge, and later after again retrieving Colossus, Forge tried to find a way to cure him by reverse engineering Apocalypse's powers but failed. During the World-Eater's attack on Limbo, Nightcrawler agreed to free Apocalypse in exchange for a cure for his friend. After returning Colossus to his normal self, Nightcrawler indeed released Apocalypse from his prison, however what Apocalypse didn't expect was that Nightcrawler would throw him into the vortex created by the World-Eater to consume Limbo, seemingly killing him in the process.\n\nApocalypse is later revealed back on Earth, no details about what the Celestials did to him were revealed, and is shown performing experiments to create an immortal vessel which he can then use as a host for his vast power and consciousness by utilizing a modified ancient Celestial technology known as the Finch, which can repair genetic decay. His efforts are not in vain, as he begins to impose his own consciousness onto a human test subject, the fourth attempt, lending it his own regenerative powers to withstand the assault. However, the test subject resists the process, causing a massive chain reaction that bathes Apocalypse and the subject in a wave of energy. Apocalypse's mind and body are torn apart. He finds his mind wandering to that of his birth before his being is fused, mixed, and exploded along with this human form. Once the wave subsides, Apocalypse finds himself in a strange new land that he deduces was the result of the explosion within the Celestial machine that must have caused a dimensional rift which threw him into another dimension. He also discovers that his body has changed as well. Not only does he discover that he can bleed, something that should be impossible with his injury-resistant mutant physiology, but after a fight against a resident of the twisted dimension, which he was able to defeat, Apocalypse learns that his body is actively refusing physiological mutation. Needing to breathe air for the first time in centuries, he comes to a shocking truth as he watches his hand turn from its usual mutated appearance back to a human form. He's becoming Human. After degenerating into an ape form, he is taken out by his previous human test subjects who unlike him, had ascend in form after been empowered by Apocalypse's own DNA. He and other apes are tortured with the Finch, which was recovered and repaired by the human test subjects. When test subject D experiments on Apocalypse, he uses the last of his mutant power to try to transfer his mind into D and is finally able to possess him which restores Apocalypse to his former glory. \n\nApocalypse was soon afterward captured by some mysterious force and is being held captive along with Kitty Pryde and anti-mutant senator Ashton Allen.\n\nApocalypse is an ancient mutant born with a variety of superhuman abilities who further augmented himself after merging with Celestial technology. He is an immortal being, with total control over the molecules of his body, enabling him to alter his form as it suits him, such as allowing his body to become extremely malleable and flexible, enhance his physical abilities, transform his limbs into weapons, wings, or jets, regenerate from fatal injuries, generate a wide range of powers at will, and adapt his body to apparently any disease or hostile environment. He can also project and absorb energy and is capable of technopathy, being able to directly interface with the various technologies he has at his disposal. Thanks to the aid of his mutant abilities allowing him complete control over his body, special \"regeneration\" chambers, Celestial technology, and changing bodies, Apocalypse has further enhanced his abilities and now he can generate almost any mutant power at his will.\nAside from his superhuman powers, Apocalypse is extraordinarily intelligent and a scientific genius with knowledge in various areas of science and technology including physics, engineering, genetics, and biology, all of which are more advanced than conventional science. Apocalypse has knowledge of Celestial technology that he uses for his own applications, such as altering mutants or humans. Apocalypse is also a skilled demagogue and a master strategist.\n\nApocalypse's blood can heal other mutants, but is fatal for humans. Apocalypse's blood can also restore his de-powered mutant descendants as is seen when a large dose of Apocalypse's blood regenerates the lost body part of Chamber and gave him a look similar to Apocalypse.\n\nIn the film \"\", his powers are portrayed slightly differently. Like most so-called \"Class 5 Mutants,\" Apocalypse is near-godlike in his abilities and their applications. Among his more aggressive powers is the apparent ability to create matter (including enormous buildings and structures but also clothing, weapons, armor, etc.) from dust within seconds and also to turn matter into dust, also within seconds. Another of his major powers is his ability to augment the powers of other mutants, a power he uses very selectively and chiefly as a means to recruit co-conspirators for his plans for world domination. The mutants whose powers he augments are sometimes taken with him as apprentices and eventual acolytes, and are treated as his children; however, even in such a role, a given mutant might suddenly be deemed unfit by Apocalypse and ejected from his confidence, at any time.\n\nIn the \"Age of Apocalypse\" storyline, Apocalypse awakens ten years before Cable would arrive, witnessing the accidental death of Charles Xavier, attacks humanity and conquers much of the Earth. In this universe, his son is Holocaust.\n\nIn the Mutant X universe, Apocalypse is an ally of the X-Men.\n\nThe Ultimate Marvel imprint title features an alternate version of Apocalypse who is an entity worshiped by Sinister. After completing a series of tasks, Sinister is transformed into Apocalypse who intends to conquer the planet. The heroes are unable to defeat him until the Phoenix Force appears and destroys him. Although his abilities are never directly stated in total, he is shown to be capable of negating other mutant powers, adapting mutant powers into his own by exposure to them and \"evolving\" as he is fought. Following a heavy assault by the X-Men, Fantastic Four, and SHIELD forces, he emerges from an explosion in a red and silver version of his traditional blue cybernetic battle armor. He is also capable of adapting to and overcoming Professor Xavier's psychic assault despite his training during his time in the future with Cable. Cable makes the most concrete implication that evolving is the major element of his powers when he remarks that Xavier must kill Apocalypse quickly before he adapts to his attacks and becomes immune to the telepathy. Apocalypse is finally dispelled by Phoenix while leaving an alive Mr. Sinister. His actual nature is unknown: he proclaims himself to be the first mutant (like in the mainstream series) and Phoenix readings portray him as an ancient being, but this is later contradicted by Nick Fury's revelation in Ultimatum, that explains mutants are a recent creation of the humans. He later appears again as part of Sinister's psychosis.\n\nIn the \"House of M\" universe created by Scarlet Witch, Apocalypse was installed as the ruler of North Africa by Magneto. He was apparently killed by Black Bolt after a failed attempt to assassinate King T'Challa at Magneto's behest.\n\nThe character appears in a number of \"What If...?\" issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5784436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5784436", "title": "Arthur Davidson (politician)", "text": "Arthur Davidson (politician)\n\nArthur Davidson, QC (7 November 1928 – 16 January 2018) was a British Labour Party politician.\n\nDavidson was educated at Liverpool College, King George V School, Southport, and Trinity College, Cambridge, where he was a member of the university athletics team and captained the college team. He served with the Merchant Navy and became a barrister, called to the bar by Middle Temple in 1953, and appointed a QC in 1978.\n\nDavidson contested Blackpool South in 1955 and Preston North in 1959. He was Member of Parliament for Accrington from 1966 to 1983, when the seat was abolished by boundary changes. He stood in the new seat of Hyndburn, but lost by just 21 votes to the Conservative Ken Hargreaves. \n\nHe was a minister in the Attorney General's Department between 1974 and 1979, under Harold Wilson and James Callaghan. From November 1982 to June 1983, he was Shadow Attorney General.\n\nHe was an expert in sports and media law, and acted for sportsmen including Robbie Fowler, Frank Bruno, Jimmy Hill and Kenny Dalglish. He was legal director of \"Associated Newspapers\" from 1985 to 1991 and Legal Director of \"Mirror Group Newspapers\" from 1991 to 1993, and worked at \"Express Newspapers\". His final job was as the lawyer for the magazine \"Time Out\" in London.\n\nHe enjoyed jazz, and was a passionate supporter of Liverpool Football Club. Davidson died in January 2018, at the age of 89.\n\n"}
{"id": "441872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=441872", "title": "AstraZeneca", "text": "AstraZeneca\n\nAstraZeneca plc is an Anglo–Swedish multinational pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical company. In 2013, it moved its headquarters to Cambridge, UK, and concentrated its R&D in three sites: Cambridge; Gaithersburg, Maryland, USA (location of MedImmune) for work on biopharmaceuticals; and Mölndal (near Gothenburg) in Sweden, for research on traditional chemical drugs. AstraZeneca has a portfolio of products for major disease areas including cancer, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, infection, neuroscience, respiratory and inflammation.\n\nThe company was founded in 1999 through the merger of the Swedish Astra AB and the English Zeneca Group (itself formed by the demerger of the pharmaceutical operations of Imperial Chemical Industries in 1993). Since the merger it has been among the world's largest pharmaceutical companies and has made numerous corporate acquisitions, including Cambridge Antibody Technology (in 2006), MedImmune (in 2007), Spirogen (in 2013) and Definiens (by MedImmune in 2014).\n\nAstraZeneca has a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index. It has secondary listings on the New York Stock Exchange and the OMX exchange.\n\nAstra AB was founded in 1913 in Södertälje, Sweden, by 400 doctors and apothecaries. In 1993 the British chemicals company ICI demerged its pharmaceuticals businesses and its agrochemicals and specialities businesses, to form Zeneca Group plc. Finally, in 1999 Astra and Zeneca Group merged to form AstraZeneca plc, with its headquarters in London. In 1999, AstraZeneca identified as a new location for the company's US base the \"Fairfax-plus\" site in North Wilmington, Delaware.\n\nIn 2002, its drug Iressa was approved in Japan as monotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer. On 3 January 2004 Dr Robert Nolan, a former director of AstraZeneca, formed the management team of ZI Medical.\n\nIn 2005, the company acquired KuDOS Pharmaceuticals, a UK biotech company, for £120m and entered into an anti-cancer collaboration agreement with Astex. It also announced that it had become a Diamond Member of the Pennsylvania Bio commerce organisation.\n\nIn 2006, following a collaborative relationship begun in 2004, AstraZeneca acquired Cambridge Antibody Technology for £702 million.\n\nIn February 2007, AstraZeneca agreed to buy Arrow Therapeutics, a company focused on the discovery and development of anti-viral therapies, for $150 million. AstraZeneca's pipeline, and \"patent cliff\", was the subject of much speculation in April 2007 leading to pipeline-boosting collaboration and acquisition activities. A few days later AstraZeneca acquired US company MedImmune for about $15.2 billion to gain flu vaccines and an anti-viral treatment for infants; AstraZeneca subsequently consolidated all of its biologics operations into a dedicated biologics division called MedImmune.\n\nIn 2010, AstraZeneca acquired Novexel Corp, an antiobiotics discovery company formed in 2004 as a spin-off of the Sanofi-Aventis anti-infectives division. Astra acquired the experimental antibiotic NXL-104 (CEF104) (CAZ-AVI) through this acquisition.\n\nIn 2011, AstraZeneca acquired Guangdong BeiKang Pharmaceutical Company, a Chinese generics business.\n\nIn February 2012, AstraZeneca and Amgen announced a collaboration on treatments for inflammatory diseases. Then in April 2012, AstraZeneca acquired Ardea Biosciences, another biotechnology company, for $1.26 billion. In June 2012, AstraZeneca and Bristol-Myers Squibb announced a two-stage deal for the joint acquisition of the biotechnology company Amylin Pharmaceuticals. It was agreed that Bristol-Myers Squibb would acquire Amylin for $5.3 billion in cash and the assumption of $1.7 billion in debt, with AstraZeneca then paying $3.4 billion in cash to Bristol-Myers Squibb, and Amylin being folded into an existing diabetes joint venture between AstraZeneca and Bristol-Myers Squibb.\n\nIn March 2013 AstraZeneca announced plans for a major corporate restructuring, including the closure of its research and development activities at Alderley Park, investment of $500 million in the construction of a new research and development facility in Cambridge and the concentration of R&D in three locations: Cambridge, Gaithersburg, Maryland (location of MedImmune, where it will work on biotech drugs), and Mölndal (near Gothenburg) in Sweden, for research on traditional chemical drugs. AstraZeneca also announced that it would move its corporate headquarters from London to Cambridge in 2016. That announcement included the announcement that it would cut 1,600 jobs; three days later it announced it would cut an additional 2,300 jobs. It also announced that it would focus on three therapeutic areas: Respiratory, Inflammation & Autoimmunity; Cardiovascular & Metabolic Disease; and Oncology. In October 2013, AstraZeneca announced it would acquire biotech oncology company Spirogen for around $440 million.\n\nOn 19 May 2014 AstraZeneca rejected a \"final offer\" from Pfizer of £55 per share, which valued the company at £69.4 billion ($117 billion). The companies had been meeting since January 2014. If the takeover had proceeded Pfizer would have become the world's biggest drug maker. The transaction would also have been the biggest foreign takeover of a British company. Many in Britain, including politicians and scientists, had opposed the deal. In July 2014 the company entered into a deal with Almirall to acquire its subsidiary Almirall Sofotec and its lung treatments including the COPD drug, Eklira. The $2.1 billion deal included an allocation of $1.2 billion for development in the respiratory franchise, one of AstraZeneca's three target therapeutic areas announced the year before. In August 2014 the company announced it had entered into a three-year collaboration with Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma on diabetic nephropathy. In September 2014 the company would join forces with Eli Lilly in developing and commercialising its candidate BACE inhibitor – AZD3292 – used for the treament of Alzheimers. The deal could yield up to $500 million for the company. In November 2014 the company's biologics R&D operation, MedImmune, agreed to acquire Definiens for more than $150 million. The company also began a Phase I/II trial collaboration with Pharmacyclics and Janssen Biotech investigating combination treatments. Also in November of the same year, the company agreed to sell its lipodystrophy treatment business to Aegerion Pharmaceuticals for more than $325 million. In December, the company received accelerated FDA approval for Olaparib in the treatment of women with advanced ovarian cancer who have a BRCA genetic mutation. A major criterion governing the drugs approval was, on average, its ability to shrink tumours in patients for 7.9 months.\n\nIn February, the company announced it would acquire the US and Canadian rights to Actavis' branded respiratory drug business for an initial sum of $600 million. Later in the same month the company announced it would partner with Orca Pharmaceuticals to develop retinoic acid–related orphan nuclear receptor gamma inhibitors for use in the treatment of a number of autoimmune diseases, which could generate up to $122.5 million for Orca. The company also announced their plan to spend $40 million creating a new subsidiary focused on small molecule anti-infectives – primarily in the research of the gyrase inhibitor, AZD0914, which is currently in Phase II for the treatment of gonorrhea. The company underwrote twenty out of thirty-two seats of a new Cambridge-Gothenburg service by Sun-Air of Scandinavia.\n\nIn mid-March the company announced it would co commercialise naloxegol along with Daiichi Sankyo in a deal worth up to $825 million. Towards the end of April the company announced a number of collaborations worth an estimated $1.8 billion; firstly, to develop and commercialise MEDI4736, with Celgene, for use against non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, myelodysplastic syndromes, and multiple myeloma with AstraZeneca receiving $450 million. The second of two-deals is an agreement to study a combination treatment of MEDI4736 and Innate Pharma’s Phase II anti-NKG2A antibody IPH2201 for up to $1.275 billion. The company's Medimmune arm also launched collaborative clinical trials with Juno Therapeutics, investigating combination treatments for cancer. The trials will assess combinations of MEDI4736 and one of Juno Therapeutics' CD19 directed chimeric antigen receptor T-cell candidates. In late June the company announced it has entered into a partnership agreement with Eolas Therapeutics on the Eolas Orexin-1 Receptor Antagonist (EORA) program for smoking cessation and other treatments. In July the company announced it would sell off its rights to Entocort (budesonide) to Tillotts Pharma for $215 million. In July 2015, Genzyme announced it would acquire the rare cancer drug Caprelsa (vandetanib) from AstraZeneca for up to $300 million. In August, the company announced it has acquired the global rights to develop and commercialise Heptares Therapeutics drug candidate HTL-1071, which focuses on blocking the adenosine A2A receptor, in a deal worth up to $510 million. In the same month the company's MedImmune subsidiary acquire exclusive rights to Inovio Pharmaceuticals INO-3112 immunotherapy, currently in Phase I/II, under an agreement which could net more than $727.5 million for Inovio. INO-3112 targets Human papillomavirus types 16 and 18. In September, Valeant licensed Brodalumab from the company for up to $445 million. On 6 November it was reported that AstraZeneca acquired ZS Pharma for $2.7 billion. In December the company announced its intention to acquire the respiratory portfolio of Takeda Pharmaceutical – namely Alvesco and Omnaris – for $575 million A day later, the company announced it had taken a 55% majority stake in Acerta for $4 billion. As part of the transaction the company will gain commercial rights to Acerta's irreversible oral Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibitor, acalabrutinib (ACP-196), which is currently in Phase III development for B-cell blood cancers and in Phase I or II clinical trials in solid tumours. In 2015, it was the eighth-largest drug company in the world based on sales revenue.\n\nIn July 2017, the company's CEO Pascal Soriot said that Brexit would not affect its commitment to its current plans in the United Kingdom. However, it had slowed decision making for new investment projects waiting for post-Brexit regulatory regime to settle down. In September 2017, the company's chairman Leif Johansson planned in taking \"first steps\" in moving their research and manufacturing, operations away from the United Kingdom, If there is a hard Brexit. In 2017, it was the eleventh-largest drug company in the world based on sales and ranked seventh based on R&D investment. In January EVP Pam Cheng stated that AstraZeneca has ignited startup of duplicate QA testing facility in Sweden and has initiated hiring in Sweden. \n\nIn February 2018, AstraZeneca announced it spinning off six early-stage experimental drugs into a new biotechnology focussed company, to be known as Viela Bio, valued at $250 million.\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's major mergers and acquisitions and historical predecessors:\n\nFor the fiscal year 2017, AstraZeneca reported earnings of US$3.001 billion, with an annual revenue of US$22.465 billion, a decline of 2.3% over the previous fiscal cycle. AstraZeneca's shares traded at over $30 per share, and its market capitalization was valued at over US$90.6 billion in October 2018.\n\nAstraZeneca develops, manufactures and sells pharmaceutical and biotechnology products to treat disorders in the gastrointestinal, cardiac and vascular, neurological and psychiatric, infection, respiratory, pathological inflammation and oncology areas. AstraZeneca has its corporate headquarters in London, England, and its research and development (R&D) headquarters are in Warsaw, Poland.\n\nThe company's largest single research and development site is at Alderley Park, a large country estate in Cheshire, England. Around 4,500 staff are based at the site.\n\nThe company has a major research and development presence in Sweden, with approximately 4,000 staff employed at research facilities in Mölndal and Södertälje.\n\nThe following products are found on the AstraZeneca website. Generic drug names are given in parentheses following the brand name.\n– Anesthetics\n\n– Cardiovascular\n\n– Diabetes\n\n– Gastrointestinal\n\n– Infectious diseases\n\n– Neuroscience\n\n– Oncology\n\n– Respiratory and inflammatory diseases\n\nIn April 2015, AstraZeneca's drug tremelimumab was approved as an orphan drug for the treatment of mesothelioma in the United States. In February 2016, AstraZeneca announced that a clinical trial of tremelimumab as a treatment for mesothelioma failed to meet its primary endpoint.\n\nAs of 2008, David Brennan was paid $1,574,144 for his role as chief executive officer.\n\nOn 26 April 2012 it was announced that Brennan was to retire early in the June of that year In August 2012, Pascal Soriot was named CEO of AstraZeneca.\n\nIt was also announced that Leif Johansson would succeed Louis Schweitzer as Non-Executive chairman on 1 June 2012, three months earlier than previously announced, and would become Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee after (the 2012) Annual General Meeting.\n\nIn April 2010 AstraZeneca settled a \"qui tam\" lawsuit brought by Stefan P. Kruszewski for $520 million to settle allegations that the company defrauded Medicare, Medicaid, and other government-funded health care programs in connection with its marketing and promotional practices for the blockbuster atypical antipsychotic, Seroquel.\n\nIn March 2011, AstraZeneca settled a lawsuit in the United States totalling $68.5 million to be divided up to 38 states.\n\nThe company's most commercially successful medication is esomeprazole (Nexium). The primary uses are treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease, treatment and maintenance of erosive esophagitis, treatment of duodenal ulcers caused by \"Helicobacter pylori\", prevention of gastric ulcers in those on chronic NSAID therapy, and treatment of gastrointestinal ulcers associated with Crohn's disease. When it is manufactured the result is a mixture of two mirror-imaged molecules, R and S. Two years before the omeprazole patent expired, AstraZeneca patented S-omeprazole in pure form, pointing out that since some people metabolise R-omeprazole slowly, pure S-omeprazole treatment would give higher dose efficiency and less variation between individuals. In March 2001, the company began to market Nexium, as it would a brand new drug.\n\nThe (R)-entantiomer of omeprazole is metabolized exclusively by the enzyme CYP2C19, which is expressed in very low amounts by 3% of the population. Treated with a normal dose of the enantiomeric mixture, these persons will experience blood levels five-times higher than those with normal CYP2C19 production. In contrast, esomeprazole is metabolized by both CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, providing less-variable drug exposure. While omeprazole is approved only at doses of up to 20 mg for the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux, esomeprazole is approved for doses up to 40 mg.\n\nIn 2007, Marcia Angell, former editor-in-chief of the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" and a lecturer in social medicine at the Harvard Medical School, said in \"Stern\", a German-language weekly newsmagazine, that AstraZeneca's scientists had misrepresented their research on the drug's efficiency, saying \"Instead of using presumably comparable doses [of each drug], the company's scientists used Nexium in higher dosages. They compared 20 and 40 mg Nexium with 20 mg Prilosec. With the cards having been marked in that way, Nexium looked like an improvement – which however was only small and shown in only two of the three studies.\"\n\nOn 4 February 1998, Astra USA sued Lars Bildman, its former president and chief executive officer, seeking $15 million for defrauding the company. The sum included $2.3 million in company funds he allegedly used to fix up three of his homes, plus money the company paid as the result of the EEOC investigation. Astra's lawsuit alleged Bildman sexually harassed and intimidated employees, used company funds for yachts and prostitutes, destroyed documents and records, and concocted \"tales of conspiracy involving ex-KGB agents and competitors. This was in a last-ditch effort to distract attention from the real wrongdoer, Bildman himself.\" Bildman had already pleaded guilty in US District Court for failing to report more than $1 million in income on his tax returns; in addition, several female co-workers filed personal sexual-harassment lawsuits.\n\nIn 2004, University of Minnesota research participant Dan Markingson committed suicide while enrolled in an industry-sponsored pharmaceutical trial comparing three FDA-approved atypical antipsychotics: Seroquel (quetiapine), Zyprexa (olanzapine), and Risperdal (risperidone). University of Minnesota Professor of Bioethics Carl Elliott noted that Markingson was enrolled in the study against the wishes of his mother, Mary Weiss, and that he was forced to choose between enrolling in the study or being involuntarily committed to a state mental institution. Further investigation revealed financial ties to AstraZeneca by Markingson's psychiatrist, Stephen C. Olson, oversights and biases in AstraZeneca's trial design, and the inadequacy of university Institutional Review Board (IRB) protections for research subjects. A 2005 FDA investigation cleared the university. Nonetheless, controversy around the case has continued. A \"Mother Jones\" article resulted in a group of university faculty members sending a public letter to the university Board of Regents urging an external investigation into Markingson's death.\n\nIn 2010 AstraZeneca agreed to pay £505 million to settle a UK tax dispute related to transfer mispricing.\n\nOn July 27, 2015, Fabio Taborre (Androni-Sidermec) returned a positive doping test result for the banned blood-booster FG-4592 in an out-of-competition control on June 16, 2015. FG-4592 (Roxadustat) is in phase 3 clinical trials and has not yet been commercialised. The drug was developed jointly by FibroGen and AstraZeneca. Unlike Erythropoietin (EPO), which directly stimulates the production of red blood cells, FG-4592 is taken orally, and stimulates natural production of EPO in a manner similar to altitude training.\n\n"}
{"id": "30876395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876395", "title": "Bahraini uprising of 2011", "text": "Bahraini uprising of 2011\n\nThe Bahraini uprising of 2011 was a series of anti-government protests in Bahrain led by the Shia-dominant Bahraini Opposition from 2011 until 2014. The protests were inspired by the unrest of the 2011 Arab Spring and 2011–12 Iranian protests and escalated to daily clashes after the Bahraini government repressed the revolt with the support of Gulf Cooperation Council and Peninsula Shield Force. The Bahraini protests were a series of demonstrations, amounting to a sustained campaign of non-violent civil disobedience and later some violent resistance in the Persian Gulf country of Bahrain. As part of the revolutionary wave of protests in the Middle East and North Africa following the self-immolation of Mohamed Bouazizi in Tunisia, the Bahraini protests were initially aimed at achieving greater political freedom and equality for the majority Shia population, and expanded to a call to end the monarchy of Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa following a deadly night raid on 17 February 2011 against protesters at the Pearl Roundabout in Manama, known locally as Bloody Thursday.\n\nProtesters in Manama camped for days at the Pearl Roundabout, which became the centre of the protests. After a month, the government of Bahrain requested troops and police aid from the Gulf Cooperation Council. On 14 March, 1,000 troops from Saudi Arabia and 500 troops from UAE entered Bahrain and crushed the uprising. A day later, King Hamad declared martial law and a three-month state of emergency. Pearl Roundabout was cleared of protesters and the iconic statue at its center was destroyed.\n\nOccasional demonstrations have, however, continued since then. After the state of emergency was lifted on 1 June, the opposition party, Al Wefaq National Islamic Society, organized several weekly protests usually attended by tens of thousands. On 9 March 2012, over 100,000 attended and another on 31 August attracted tens of thousands. Daily smaller-scale protests and clashes continued, mostly outside Manama's business districts. By April 2012, more than 80 had died.\n\nThe police response was described as a \"brutal\" crackdown on \"peaceful and unarmed\" protesters, including doctors and bloggers. The police carried out midnight house raids in Shia neighbourhoods, beatings at checkpoints and denial of medical care in a campaign of intimidation. More than 2,929 people have been arrested, and at least five died due to torture in police custody.\n\nIn June, King Hamad established the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry composed of international independent figures to assess the incidents. The report was released on 23 November and confirmed the Bahraini government's use of systematic torture and other forms of physical and psychological abuse on detainees, as well as other human rights violations. It also rejected the government's claims that the protests were instigated by Iran. The report was criticised for not disclosing the names of individual abusers and extending accountability only to those who actively carried out human rights violations.\n\nIn early July 2013, Bahraini activists called for major rallies on 14 August under the title Bahrain Tamarod.\n\nThe Bahraini uprising is also known as 14 February uprising and Pearl uprising. Although the majority of sources refer to it as an uprising, some have named it a revolution.\n\nThe roots of the uprising date back to the beginning of the 20th century. The Bahraini people have protested sporadically throughout the last decades demanding social, economic and political rights. Demonstrations were present as early as the 1920s and the first municipal election was held in 1926.\n\nThe country has been ruled by the House of Khalifa since the Bani Utbah invasion of Bahrain in 1783, and was a British protectorate for most of the 20th century. In 1926, Charles Belgrave a British national operating as an \"adviser\" to the ruler became the \"de facto\" ruler and oversaw the transition to a modern state. The National Union Committee (NUC) formed in 1954 was the earliest serious challenge to the status quo. Two year after its formation, NUC leaders were imprisoned and deported by authorities. In 1965, a one-month uprising erupted by oil workers was crushed. The following year a new British \"adviser\" was appointed. Ian Henderson was then known for allegedly ordering torture and assassinations in Kenya. He was tasked with heading and developing the General Directorate for State Security Investigations.\n\nIn 1971, Bahrain became an independent state and in 1973 the country held its first parliamentary election. However, only two years after the end of British rule, the constitution was suspended and the assembly dissolved by the Isa bin Salman Al Khalifa the Emir at the time. The state of human rights deteriorated in the period between 1975 and 2001, which was increased by repression. An alleged failed coup d'état was attempted in 1981. In 1992, 280 society leaders demanded the return of the parliament and constitution, which the government rejected. Two years later a popular uprising erupted. Throughout the uprising large demonstrations and acts of violence occurred. Over forty people were killed including several detainees while in police custody and at least three policemen.\n\nIn 1999, Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa succeeded his father. He successfully ended the uprising in 2001 after introducing wide-ranging reforms, which 98.4 percent of Bahrainis voted in favour of in a nationwide referendum. The following year, opposition associations \"felt betrayed\" after the government issued a unilateral new constitution. Despite earlier promises, the appointed Consultative Council, the upper house, of the National Assembly of Bahrain was given more powers than the elected Council of Representatives, the lower house. The Emir became a king with wide executive authority. Four opposition parties boycotted the 2002 parliamentary election, however in the 2006 election one of them, Al Wefaq won a plurality. The participation in elections increased the split between opposition associations. The Haq Movement was founded and utilized street protests to seek change instead of bringing change within the parliament. The period between 2007 and 2010 saw sporadic protests which were followed by large arrests. Since then, tensions have increased \"dangerously\".\n\nThe state of human rights in Bahrain was criticized in the period between 1975 and 2001. The government had committed wide range violations including systematic torture. Following reforms in 2001, human rights improved significantly and were praised by Amnesty International. They allegedly began deteriorating again at the end of 2007 when torture and repression tactics were being used again. By 2010, torture had become common and Bahrain's human rights record was described as \"dismal\" by Human Rights Watch. The Shia majority have long complained of what they call systemic discrimination. They accuse the government of naturalizing Sunnis from neighbouring countries and gerrymandering electoral districts.\n\nBahrain is relatively poor when compared to its oil-rich Persian Gulf neighbours; its oil has \"virtually dried up\" and it depends on international banking and the tourism sector. Bahrain's unemployment rate is among the highest in the region. Extreme poverty does not exist in Bahrain where the average daily income is , however 11 percent of citizens suffered from relative poverty.\n\nBahrain hosts the United States Naval Support Activity Bahrain, the home of the US Fifth Fleet; the US Department of Defense considers the location critical to its attempts to counter Iranian military power in the region. The Saudi Arabian government and other Gulf region governments strongly support the King of Bahrain. Although government officials and media often accuse the opposition of being influenced by Iran, a government-appointed commission found no evidence supporting the claim. Iran has historically claimed Bahrain as a province, but the claim was dropped after a United Nations survey in 1970 found that most Bahraini people preferred independence over Iranian control.\n\nInspired by the successful uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia, opposition activists starting from January 2011 filled the social media websites Facebook and Twitter as well as online forums, e-mails and text messages with calls to stage major pro-democracy protests. Bahraini youths described their plans as an appeal for Bahrainis \"to take to the streets on Monday 14 February in a peaceful and orderly manner in order to rewrite the constitution and to establish a body with a full popular mandate\".\n\nThe day had a symbolic value as it was the tenth anniversary of a referendum in favor of the National Action Charter and the ninth anniversary of the Constitution of 2002. Unregistered opposition parties such as the Haq Movement and Bahrain Freedom Movement supported the plans, while the National Democratic Action Society only announced its support for \"the principle of the right of the youth to demonstrate peacefully\" one day before the protests. Other opposition groups including Al Wefaq, Bahrain's main opposition party, did not explicitly call for or support protests; however its leader Ali Salman demanded political reforms.\n\nA few weeks before the protests, the government made a number of concessions such as offering to free some of the children arrested in the August crackdown and increased social spending. On 4 February, several hundred Bahrainis gathered in front of the Egyptian embassy in Manama to express solidarity with anti-government protesters there. On 11 February, at the \"Khutbah\" preceding Friday prayer, Shiekh Isa Qassim said \"the winds of change in the Arab world [are] unstoppable\". He demanded to end torture and discrimination, release political activists and rewrite the constitution. Appearing on the state media, King Hamad announced that each family will be given 1,000 Bahraini dinars ($2,650) to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the National Action Charter referendum. Agence France-Presse linked payments to the 14 February demonstration plans.\n\nThe next day, Bahrain Centre for Human Rights sent an open letter to the king urging him to avoid \"worst-case scenario\". On 13 February, authorities increased the presence of security forces in key locations such as shopping malls and set up a number of checkpoints. \"Al Jazeera\" interpreted the move as \"a clear warning against holding Monday's [14 February] rally\". At night, police attacked a small group of youth who organized a protest in Karzakan after a wedding ceremony. Small protests and clashes occurred in other locations as well, such as Sabah Al Salem, Sitra, Bani Jamra and Tashan leading to minor injuries to both sides.\n\nProtests began on 14 February 2011, but met immediate reaction from security forces. Over thirty protesters were reportedly injured and one was killed as Bahraini government forces used tear gas, rubber bullets and Birdshot to break up demonstrations, but protests continued into the evening, drawing several hundred participants. Most of the protesters were Shia Muslims, who make up the majority of Bahrain's population. The next day, one person attending the funeral of the protester killed on 14 February was shot dead and 25 more were hurt when security officers opened fire on mourners. The same day, thousands of protesters marched to the Pearl Roundabout in Manama and occupied it, setting up protest tents and camping out overnight. Sunni activist Mohamed Albuflasa was secretly arrested by security forces after addressing the crowd, making him the first political prisoner of the uprising.\n\nIn the early morning of 17 February, security forces retook control of the roundabout, killing four protesters and injuring over 300 in the process. Manama was subsequently placed under lockdown, with tanks and armed soldiers taking up positions around the capital city. In response, Al Wefaq MPs, then the largest bloc, submitted their resignations from the lower house of the National Assembly of Bahrain. The next morning over 50,000 took part in the funerals of victims. In the afternoon, hundreds of them marched to Manama. When they neared the Pearl Roundabout, the army opened fire injuring dozens and fatally wounding one. Troops withdrew from the Pearl Roundabout on 19 February, and protesters reestablished their camps there. The crown prince assured protesters that they would be allowed to camp at the roundabout.\n\nSubsequent days saw large demonstrations; on 21 February, a pro-government \"Gathering of National Unity\" drew tens of thousands, whilst on 22 February the number of protesters at the Pearl Roundabout peaked at over 150,000 after more than 100,000 protesters marched there. On 25 February, a national day of mourning was announced and large anti-government marches were staged. Participants were twice as much as those in the 22 February march, estimated at about 40% of Bahraini citizens. Three days later hundreds protested outside parliament demanding the resignation of all MPs. As protests intensified toward the end of the month, King Hamad was forced to offer concessions in the form of the release of political prisoners and the dismissal of three government ministers.\n\nProtests continued into March, with the opposition expressing dissatisfaction with the government's response. A counter-demonstration on 2 March was staged, reportedly the largest political gathering in Bahrain's history in support of the government. The next day, two were reportedly injured in clashed between naturalized Sunnis and local Shia youths in Hamad Town, and police deployed tear gas to break up the clashes. Tens of thousands staged two protests the following day, one in Manama and the other headed to state TV accusing it of reinforcing sectarian divides. Protesters escalated their calls for the removal of Prime Minister Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, in power since 1971, from office, gathering outside his office on 6 March.\n\nThe next day three protests were staged; the first near the US embassy, the second outside the Ministry of Interior building and the third and longest in front of Bahrain Financial Harbour. On 8 March, three hard-line Shia groups called for the abdication of the monarchy and the establishment of a democratic republic via peaceful means, while the larger Al Wefaq group continued demanding an elected government and a constitutional monarchy. On 9 March, thousands protested near Manama's immigration office against naturalizing foreigners and recruiting them in security forces.\n\nHard-liners escalated their moves staging a protest headed to the Royal Court in Riffa on 11 March. Thousands carrying flowers and flags participated, but were blocked by riot police. During the same day, tens of thousands participated in a march in Manama organized by Al Wefaq. The following day, tens of thousands of protesters encircled another royal palace and unlike the previous day, the protest ended peacefully. The same day, U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates was conducting a visit to the country.\n\nOn 13 March, the government reacted strongly, with riot police firing tear gas canisters and tearing down protest tents in the Pearl Roundabout and using tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse demonstrators in the financial district, where they had been camping for over a week. Witnesses reported that riot police were encircling Pearl Roundabout, the focal point of the protest movement, but the Ministry of Interior said they were aiming to the open the highway and asked protesters to \"remain in the [Pearl] roundabout for their safety\". Thousands of protesters clashed with police forcing them to retreat.\n\nMeanwhile, 150 government supporters stormed the University of Bahrain where about 5,000 students were staging an anti-government protest. Clashes occurred between the two groups using sharp objects and stones. Riot police intervened by firing tear gas, rubber bullets and sound bombs on opposition protesters. During the day, the General Federation of Workers Trade Unions in Bahrain called for a general strike and the crown prince announced a statement outlining seven principles to be discussed in the political dialogue, including \"a parliament with full authority\" and \"a government that represents the will of the people\".\n\nAs police were overwhelmed by protesters who also blocked roads, the government of Bahrain requested help from neighbouring countries. On 14 March, the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) agreed to deploy Peninsula Shield Force troops to Bahrain. Saudi Arabia deployed about 1,000 troops with armoured support, and the United Arab Emirates deployed about 500 police officers. The forces crossed into Bahrain via the King Fahd Causeway. The purported reason of the intervention was to secure key installations. According to the BBC, \"The Saudis took up positions at key installations but never intervened directly in policing the demonstrators\", though warned that they would deal with the protesters if Bahrain did not. The intervention marked the first time an Arab government requested foreign help during the Arab Spring. The opposition reacted strongly, calling it an occupation and a declaration of war, and pleaded for international help.\n\nOn 15 March, King Hamad declared a three-month state of emergency. Thousands of protesters marched to the Saudi embassy in Manama denouncing the GCC intervention, while clashes between security officers using shotgun and demonstrators took place in various locations. The most violent were on Sitra island stretching throughout morning till afternoon resulting in two deaths and over 200 injuries among protesters and one death among police. Doctors at the Salmaniya Medical Complex said it was overwhelmed with injured and that some had bullet wounds. Jeffrey D. Feltman, then the US Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs was sent to Bahrain to mediate between the two sides. Opposition parties said they accepted the US initiative while the government did not respond.\n\n\nIn the early morning of 16 March, over 5,000 security forces backed by tanks and helicopters stormed the Pearl Roundabout, where protesters had camped for about a month. The number of protesters was much lower than that in previous days due to many of them returning to villages to protect their homes. Intimidated by the amount of security forces, most protesters retreated from the location, while others decided to stay and were violently cleared within two hours. Then, security forces cleared road blockades and the financial harbor, and moved to take control over Salmaniya hospital. They entered the hospital building with their sticks, shields, handguns and assault rifles after clearing the parking area, and treated it as a crime scene.\n\nWitnesses said ambulances were captured inside the hospital and some health workers were beaten. Unable to reach Salmaniya hospital, the wounded were taken to small clinics outside the capital, which were stormed by police soon after, prompting protesters to use mosques as field clinics. Then, the army moved to opposition strongholds where it set up a number of checkpoints and thousands of riot police entered, forcing people to retreat to their homes by nightfall. The Al Wefaq party advised people to stay off the streets, avoid confrontations with security forces and stay peaceful after the army had announced a nighttime 12-hour curfew in Manama and banned all sorts of public gatherings. Eight people had died that day, five by gunshot, one by birdshot and two police reportedly run over by an SUV.\n\n\nBy the early hours of 17 March, over 1,000 protesters had been arrested, including seven leading opposition figures, among them Abduljalil al-Singace, Abdulwahab Hussain, Ibrahim Sharif and Hasan Mushaima. In an interview with Al Jazeera before his arrest, the latter had claimed protesters were gunned down despite offering only non-violent civil resistance. In response to the government's reaction to the protests, a number of top Shia officials submitted their resignations, including two ministers, four appointed MPs and a dozen judges. Protesters in several villages ignored the curfew and gathered in streets only to be dispersed by security forces, which allowed funerals as the only means of public gathering. Arrested protesters were taken to police stations where they were mistreated and verbally abused.\n\nLater in the day, surgeon Ali al-Ekri was arrested from the still surrounded Salmaniya hospital and by April another 47 health workers had been arrested. Their case drew wide international attention. Patients at the hospital reported getting beaten and verbally abused by security forces and staff said patients with protest related injuries were kept in wards 62 and 63 where they were held as captives, denied health care and beaten on daily basis to secure confessions. Physicians for Human Rights accused the government of violating medical neutrality and Médecins Sans Frontières said injured protesters were denied medical care and that hospitals were used as baits to snare them. The government of Bahrain dismissed these reports as lacking any evidence and said forces were only deployed in the hospital to keep order.\n\nOn 18 March, the Pearl Monument in the middle of the Pearl Roundabout was demolished on government orders and a worker died in process. The government said the demolition was in order to erase \"bad memories\" and \"boost flow of traffic\", but the site remained cordoned by security forces. Security checkpoints set up throughout the country were used to beat and arrest those perceived to be anti-government, among them was Fadhila Mubarak arrested on 20 March due to listening to 'revolutionary' music. On 22 March, the General trade union supported by Al Wefaq suspended the general strike after it had announced extending it indefinitely two days previously. Meanwhile, over a thousand mourners took part in funeral of a woman killed in crackdown in Manama and human rights activists reported that night raids on dissent activists had continued.\n\nA \"day of rage\" was planned across Bahrain on 25 March in order to move daily village protests into main streets, but was quickly squelched by government troops, while thousands were allowed to take part in funeral of a man killed by police birdshot where they chanted anti-government slogans. During the month, hundreds had been chanting \"Allahu Akbar\" from their rooftops in the afternoon and night. Pakistani workers, some of them working in security forces said they were living in fear as they were attacked by mobs who injured many and killed two of them earlier in the month. On 28 March, the government of Bahrain shunned a Kuwaiti mediation offer that was accepted by Al Wefaq and briefly arrested leading blogger Mahmood Al-Yousif, driving others to hide. The BBC reported that the police's brutal handling of the protests had turned Bahrain into 'island of fear'. By the end of the month, another four had died bringing the number of deaths in the month to nineteen.\n\nBahrain TV ran a campaign to name, punish and shame those who took part in the protest movement. Athletes were its first targets; the Hubail brothers, A'ala and Mohamed were suspended and arrested along with 200 other sportsmen after being shamed on TV. Other middle-class sectors were also targeted, including academics, businessmen, doctors, engineers, journalists and teachers. The witch-hunt expanded to the social media where Bahrainis were called to identify faces for arrests. Those arrested were checked off, among them was Ayat Al-Qurmezi who had read a poem criticizing the king and prime minister at the Pearl Roundabout. She was subsequently released following international pressure.\n\nIn April, as a part of the crackdown campaign, the government moved to destroy Shia places of worship, demolishing thirty five mosques. Although many had been standing for decades, the government said they were illegally built, and justified destroying some of them at night as to avoid hurting people's psychology. Among the destroyed was the Amir Mohammed Braighi mosque in A'ali which was built more than 400 years ago. On 2 April, following an episode on Bahrain TV alleging it had published false and fabricated news, \"Al-Wasat\", a local newspaper was banned briefly and its editor Mansoor Al-Jamri replaced. The next day over 2,000 participated in a funeral procession in Sitra and chanted anti-government slogans, and in Manama opposition legislators staged a protest in front of United Nations building.\n\nOn 9 April, human rights activist Abdulhadi al-Khawaja and his two sons-in-law were arrested. His daughter Zainab who subsequently underwent a hunger strike to protest the arrests, said al-Khawaja was bleeding after getting beaten unconscious during the arrest. That month alone, four protesters had died due to torture in government custody including journalists Karim Fakhrawi and Zakariya Rashid Hassan al-Ashiri. The government initially denied such reports and accused human rights activist Nabeel Rajab of fabricating photos, however a HRW researcher and a BBC reporter who had seen one body prior to burial stated they were accurate. Five prison guards were subsequently charged with a protesters death.\n\nOn 14 April, the Ministry of Justice moved to ban opposition groups Al Wefaq and Islamic Action Society on charges of violating laws and damaging \"social peace and national unity\", however following US criticism, the government of Bahrain retracted their decision saying they would wait for investigation results. On 16 April, human rights lawyer Mohammed al-Tajer, who represented leading opposition figures, was himself arrested during a night raid. On 28 April, a special military court known as the National Safety Court sentenced four protesters to death and three others to life prison over charges of premeditated murder of two policemen on 16 March. The sentences were upheld by a military court of appeal the following month.\n\nStarting from March and throughout May, hundreds of workers including labour union leaders were fired from their jobs after the government had encouraged companies such as Gulf Air to do so. The main reasons for dismissals were absence during the one-week general strike, taking part in protests and public display of anti-government opinion. Although the government and several companies said the strike was illegal, the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry stated it was \"within... the law\". Some workers who underwent investigations said they were shown images associating them with protests. Head of the Civil Service Bureau initially denied those reports, but few months later acknowledged that several hundred have been dismissed. In total 2,464 private sector and 2,075 public sector employees were fired for a total of 4539.\n\n\nOn 2 May, authorities arrested two of Al Wefaq's resigned MPs, Matar Matar and Jawad Ferooz. Later in the month, the king of Bahrain announced that the state of emergency would be lifted on 1 June, half a month before the scheduled date. Tanks, armoured vehicles and manned military checkpoints were still prevalent in Manama and a number of villages. Small protests and clashes with security forces dispersing them quickly continued in the villages and residents reported living under siege. Hate speech similar to that preceding the Rwandan Genocide was reported in a pro-government newspaper which \"compared Shiites to 'termites' that should be exterminated\".\n\nThe first hearing for 13 opposition leaders was held on 8 May before the special military Court of National Safety marking the first time they saw their families after weeks of solitary confinement and alleged torture. On 17 May, two local journalists working for Deutsche Presse-Agentur and France 24 were briefly arrested and interrogated, and one of them reported getting mistreated. The following day, nine policemen were injured in Nuwaidrat. The \"Gulf Daily News\" reported that police were run over after they had injured and captured a \"rioter\", while \"Al Akhbar\" reported that police had fired on each other after a dispute, adding that this incident exposed the presence of Jordanian officers within Bahrain security forces.\n\nOn 31 May, the king of Bahrain called for a national dialogue to begin in July in order to resolve ongoing tensions. However, the seriousness and effectiveness of the dialogue has been disputed by the opposition, who referred to it disparagingly as a \"chitchat room\". Human Rights Watch said opposition parties were marginalized in the dialogue as they were only given 15 seats out of 297 despite winning 55% of votes in 2010 election.\n\nOn 1 June, protests erupted across Shia-dominated areas of Bahrain to demand the end of martial law as the state of emergency was officially lifted. Protests continued through early June, with demonstrators marching around the destroyed Pearl Roundabout, but security forces battled back and regularly dispersed demonstrators. The 2011 edition of the Bahrain Grand Prix, a major Formula One racing event, was officially cancelled as the uprising wore on. On 11 June, protest was announced in advance but did not receive government permission, opposition supporters said. It was held in the Shi'ite district of Saar, west of the capital. Police did not stop up to 10,000 people who came to the rally, many in cars, said a Reuters witness. Helicopters buzzed overhead. On 13 June, Bahrain's rulers commenced the trials of 48 medical professionals, including some of the country's top surgeons, a move seen as the hounding of those who treated injured protesters during the popular uprising which was crushed by the military intervention of Saudi Arabia. On 18 June, The Bahraini government decided to lift a ban on the largest opposition party. On 22 June, the Bahraini government sent 21 opposition figures to be tried by a special security court which sentenced 8 pro-democracy activists to life in prison for their role in the uprising. Other defendants were sentenced to between two and fifteen years in jail.\n\nOn 9 August, the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry announced that 137 detainees had been released, including Matar Matar and Jawad Fayrouz, Shia MPs from the Al-Wefaq opposition party.\n\nAccording to the \"Gulf Daily News\" on 1 February 2012, King Hamad's media affairs adviser Nabeel Al Hamer revealed plans for new talks between the opposition and the government on his Twitter account. He said that talks with political societies \"had already begun to pave the way clear for a dialogue that would lead to a united Bahrain\". The move was supported by Al Wefaq National Islamic Society former MP Abduljalil Khalil, who said that the society was \"ready for serious dialogue and this time had no preconditions\". He reiterated that \"People want serious reforms that reflect their will and what they really want for their future.\" However the National Unity Assembly board member Khalid Al Qoud said that his society would not participate in talks \"until those behind the acts of violence were arrested\". The call for dialogue was echoed by Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa, who backed the initiative.\n\nThe Bahrain Debate is an initiative organised \"by the youth for the youth\" that brings together young people from across the spectrum of Bahraini society to debate the political and social problems confronting the country, and their solutions. The debate is not funded or organised by any political group. \"In light of what has happened in Bahrain, people need to express themselves in a constructive way and listen to others' views,\" said Ehsan Al Kooheji, one of the organisers. \"The youth are the country's future because they have the power to change things. They are extremely dynamic and energetic but have felt that they don't have a platform to express their opinions.\"\n\nBahraini independents worried that the island will slide into sectarian violence also began an effort to break the political stalemate between pro-government and opposition forces. Dr. Ali Fakhro, a former minister and ambassador \"respected across the political spectrum\", told Reuters that he hoped to get moderates from both sides together at a time when extremists are making themselves felt throughout the Gulf Arab state. Fakhro said the initiative, launched at a meeting on 28 January 2012, involved persuading opposition parties and pro-government groups meeting outside a government forum and agreeing on a list of basic demands for democratic reform. He launched the plan at a meeting of prominent Bahrainis with no official political affiliations or memberships, called the National Bahraini Meeting. A basic framework for discussion is the seven points for democratic reform announced by Crown Prince Salman in March 2011.\n\nBahraini newspaper \"Al Ayam\" reported on 7 March 2012 that the government and the opposition political societies were approaching an agreement to start a dialogue towards reconciliation and reunifying the country.\n\nOn 9 March 2012, hundreds of thousands protested in one of the biggest anti-government rallies to date. According to CNN, the march \"filled a four-lane highway between Diraz and Muksha\". A Reuters photographer estimated the number to be over 100,000 while opposition activists estimated the number to be between 100,000 and 250,000. Nabeel Rajab, president of the Bahrain Centre for Human Rights called the march \"the biggest in our history\".\n\nThe march was called for by Sheikh Isa Qassim, Bahrain's top Shia cleric. Protesters called for the downfall of the King and the release of imprisoned political leaders. The protest ended peacefully, however hundreds of youths tried to march back to the site of the now demolished symbolic Pearl roundabout, and were dispersed by security forces with tear gas.\n\nOn 10 April, seven policemen were injured when a homemade bomb exploded in Eker, the Ministry of the Interior said. The ministry blamed protesters for the attack. This was followed on 19 October by the siege of Eker.\n\nOn 18 April, in the run-up to the scheduled 2012 Bahrain Grand Prix, a car used by Force India mechanics had been involved in a petrol bombing, though there were no injuries or damage. The team members had been travelling in an unmarked car and were held up by an impromptu roadblock which they were unable to clear before a petrol bomb exploded nearby. Protests and protesters sharply increased in the spotlight of international press for the Grand Prix, and to condemn the implicit endorsement of the government by Formula One.\n\nOn 30 October 2012, the government banned all protests, threatening legal action against anyone who attempted to organize a rally or demonstration. It was unclear how the ban would change the government's handling of protests, as many were already considered illegal and met with force.\n\nInspired by the Egyptian Tamarod Movement that played a role in the removal of President Mohamed Morsi, Bahraini opposition activists called for mass protests starting on 14 August, the forty second anniversary of Bahrain Independence Day under the banner Bahrain Tamarod. The day also marked the two and half anniversary of the Bahraini uprising. In response, the Ministry of Interior (MoI) warned against joining what it called \"illegal demonstrations and activities that endanger security\" and stepped up security measures.\n\nAccording to a report by a Bahraini human rights body, the country saw 745 protests in just December alone. The government's reaction to dissent included arrests of 31 children, home raids and enforced disappearances. Out of the 745 \"sporadic protests\", more than a half were suppressed by security forces, according to a report by the Liberties and Human Rights Department in Al Wefaq National Islamic Society.\n\nOn 3 March, a bomb blast by Shia protesters in the village of Al Daih killed 3 police officers. One of the police officers killed was an Emirati policeman from the Peninsula Shield Force. The two other officers killed were Bahraini policemen. 25 suspects were arrested in connection to the bombing. In response to the violence, the Cabinet of Bahrain designated various protest groups as terrorist organizations.\n\nIn November, the first parliamentary elections were held in Bahrain since the beginning of the protests despite boycotts held by the Shia-majority opposition.\n\nOn 15 January 2017, the Cabinet of Bahrain passed a capital punishment sentence of execution by firing squad on three men found guilty for the bomb attack in 2014 that killed three security forces.\n\nThe Bahrain Centre for Human Rights said that Bahraini authorities were blocking a \"Facebook\" group being used for planned protests on 14 February, and that its own website had been blocked for many years. Nabeel Rajab, head of the centre, said that the group was \"only asking for political reforms, right of political participation, respect for human rights, stopping of systematic discrimination against Shias\". Several bloggers were arrested prior to 6 February.\n\nFollowing the deployment of Gulf Cooperation Council forces, the government stepped up the arrests of Shia Muslims, including many cyber activists, with more than 300 detained and dozens missing, the opposition stated on 31 March. Rajab said that a growing number of reform campaigners were going into hiding, after the country's most-prominent blogger, Mahmood al-Yousif, was arrested a day earlier, on 30 March. Although al-Yousif was released on 1 April, several other people, including Abdul Khaleq al-Oraibi, a pro-opposition doctor working at Salmaniya Hospital, were detained.\n\n\"Google Earth\" had previously been blocked after it showed the locations of the ruling family's estates which was reported to have stirred up discontent.\n\nOn 3 April, Bahraini authorities prevented the publishing of \"Al-Wasat\", the country's main opposition newspaper, and blocked its website. The Information Affairs Authority was said to be investigating allegations that editors intentionally published misleading information. However, on 4 April, the newspaper resumed printing, although a government spokesperson said the newspaper had broken press laws.\n\nOn 14 April, the Justice Ministry stated it was seeking to ban the Wefaq party, as well as the Islamic Action Party, a Wefaq ally, for \"undertaking activities that harmed social peace, national unity, and inciting disrespect for constitutional institutions.\" The US State Department quickly raised concerns about these plans, prompting the Bahraini authorities to state, a day later, that they were holding off on any action until investigations into the Wefaq party were finalized.\n\nIn early May, Al Wefaq claimed that in response to the protests, Bahraini police had \"raided up to 15 mainly girls schools, detaining, beating and threatening to rape girls as young as 12.\" Based on its own investigation, Al Jazeera English described the police actions as \"periodic raids on girls' schools\" and interviewed a 16-year-old girl, \"Heba\", who had been taken from her school together with three other pupils and beaten severely during three days of police detention.\n\nBy mid-May, 28 mosques and Shia religious buildings had been destroyed by the Bahraini authorities in response to the anti-government protests, according to \"Al Jazeera English\" and journalist Robert Fisk. The Justice Ministry stated that the mosques were destroyed because they were unlicensed. Adel Mouwda, first deputy speaker of the Council of Representatives of Bahrain, stated that the buildings destroyed were mostly \"not mosques\" since they were \"expansions of mosques in some private territories\", and that some of the mosques destroyed were Sunni mosques.\n\nIn September, twenty Bahraini medical professionals who had been arrested for treating protesters at the Salmaniya Medical Complex were handed jail terms of up to twenty years on charges of anti-government activity. The international community immediately denounced the sentences, saying that they demonstrated a disregard for human rights and violated the principle of medical neutrality.\n\nIn October, the Bahraini government nullified the convictions and scheduled retrials in civilian courts, which are ongoing. Despite promises of greater transparency, the Bahraini government has denied several human rights activists access to the trial, including Rick Sollom, Deputy Director of Physicians for Human Rights.\n\nAl Khalifa regime in Bahrain, knowingly refused for more than two years to investigate complaints regarding the torture of Mohamed Ramadan—a father-of-three on death row who was tortured into making a false confession.\n\nIn February 2014, Mohammed was arrested from Bahrain International Airport, where he worked as a police officer. He was accused of involvement in an attack on other police officers, despite a total lack of evidence tying him to the crime. In reality, Mohammed is an innocent man who was arrested in retaliation for his attendance at peaceful pro-democracy demonstrations.\n\nFollowing his arrest, Mohammed was brutally tortured by police into signing a false confession, despite his innocence. During his initial detention, police officers \"told Mohammed outright that they knew he was innocent\", but were punishing him as a traitor for attending pro-democracy demonstrations.\n\nDuring his entire detention, Mohammed has never been allowed to meet with his lawyer. The day Mohammed's trial began was the first time he ever saw his lawyer's face. In that trial, he was convicted and sentenced to death almost solely on the basis of confessions extracted through prolonged torture.\n\nReprieve a human rights defender organisation published an investigative report about Britain involvement in Bahrain's regime atrocity in 2016. The report says that seven innocent men are facing the death penalty in Bahrain after being tortured into the false confessions of crimes.\n\nOn 15 January 2017, Cabinet of Bahrain passed a capital punishment sentence of three Shia protesters convicted of orchestrating a bomb attack which killed 1 Emirati policeman from the Peninsula Shield Force and 2 Bahraini policemen on 3 March 2014. 42 year old Sami Mushaima, 21 year old Ali Al-Singace, and 27 year old Abbas Al-Samea confessed of orchestrating the bomb attack and were executed by firing squad.\n\nAccording to Americans for Democracy & Human Rights in Bahrain, Bahrain security forces arrested Sami Mushaima in March 2014 and held him incommunicado for at least 11 days. Security officials subjected Mushaima to beatings, electrocution, sexual assault, and severely damaged his front teeth. Mushaima's family believes he was coerced into falsely confessing through the use of torture. Sami Mushaima, Ali Al-Singace and Abbas Al-Samea executions have sparked protests from members of the opposition in Bahrain.\n\n\"Al-wasat\" reported on 12 April, Issue no. 3139, that sixteen Lebanese nationals were requested by the Bahraini security services to leave the country. No details or reasons for the request were given.\n\nHowever, the Bahraini government claimed in a confidential report to the UN in April 2011 that Lebanese political organisation Hezbollah, considered a terrorist group by the US, is present in Bahrain and is actively involved in the organisation of the unrest.\n\nIn July 2014 Bahrain expelled the United States Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, Tom Malinowski, after he had met members of the leading Shia opposition group, Al-Wefaq, a move that the Foreign ministry of Bahrain said 'intervened in the country's domestic affairs'. Previously, in May 2011, pro government websites and newspapers targeted US embassy's human rights officer, Ludovic Hood, and published information on where he and his family lived after accusing him of training and provoking demonstrations, being a Zionist and working in cooperation with Hezbollah. Hood had been photographed handing out donuts to demonstrators outside the US embassy in Bahrain. The US government subsequently withdrew Hood from Bahrain.\n\nAmongst the more prominent opposition figures, the Al-Khawaja family has been intermittently in and out of prison, even before the uprising began. Since the start of the uprising, Abdulhadi al-Khawaja, the former president of the Bahrain Centre for Human Rights, was placed on trial for his part in the uprising. On 22 June, he was sentenced to life in prison. His daughters and sons-in-law have also been intermittently in and out of prison since the counter-revolutionary crackdown by the government.\n\nAyat Al-Qurmezi was also found guilty of organising protests and assembling at the Pearl Roundabout and reading a poem critical of government policy. Sheikh Abdul-Aziz bin Mubarak, her spokesman, said that the poem \"caused incitement and hatred to his majesty the king and to the prime minister\" with lines such as \"we are people who kill humiliation\" and \"assassinate misery.\"\n\nHuman rights lawyer Mohammed al-Tajer was detained on 16 April 2011, apparently for providing legal support to other arrested activists. He was held incommunicado for two months before being charged with inciting hatred for the regime, engaging in illegal protests, and inciting people to harm police. He was released on 7 August, though the charges against him were not dropped.\n\nAs of 22 May, 515 detainees had been released and more than 140 were released on 9 August.\n\nTorture during the uprising has been described in many human rights reports as being widespread and systematic. 64% of detainees (1,866 individuals) reported being tortured. At least five individuals died as a result. During the uprising detainees were interrogated by three government agencies, the Ministry of Interior (MoI), the National Security Agency (NSA) and the Bahrain Defence Force. According to the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry (BICI) report, physical and psychological abuse was inflicted by the NSA and the MoI on a systematic basis and in many cases amounted to torture. The BICI report describes the systematic use of techniques similar to those used during the repression of the 1990s uprising as indicative of \"a systemic problem, which can only be addressed on a systemic level\".\n\nFor decades, the Bahraini authorities have been recruiting Sunni foreign nationals in the security forces from different countries, including Egypt, Jordan, Syria, Iraq (Ba'athists), Yemen and Pakistan (Baluch) in order to confront any popular movement that usually comes from the Shia majority. In 2009, Bahrain Centre for Human Rights claimed that 64 percent of National Security Agency employees were foreigners and that only 4 percent were Shia. Pakistanis mainly from Balochistan make up 30 percent of Bahrain security forces and are usually recruited via the Fauji Foundation. Bahrainis, \"Al Jazeera English\", \"Hindustan Times\", \"Time\" magazine and Bruce Riedel referred to them as mercenaries. The Bahraini government admits it recruits foreigners in security forces, although it does not describe them as mercenaries. \"We have no mercenaries. We have workers who have been serving at the Ministry of Interior for many years. Some of them have been naturalized and their children are working at the ministry\", said Rashid bin Abdullah Al Khalifa, the Minister of Interior.\n\nDuring the uprising, the deportation of Syrians and Pakistanis serving with the security forces was one of protesters' main goals; one of their slogans was against hiring Pakistanis in the riot police department. \"There is no security when the police come from Pakistan\", they chanted. One month after the uprising began, the ministry of interior announced 20,000 jobs in security forces were available for Bahrainis, including protesters. The move was considered a step to satisfy protesters' demands. However, advertisements of \"urgent requirement\" in the National Guard, special forces and riot police were spread in Pakistani media.\n\nThe appearance of the advertisements was preceded by two \"quiet trips\" to Pakistan by Bandar bin Sultan, now the Director General of the Saudi Intelligence Agency. Later, the Foreign Minister of Bahrain, Khalid bin Ahmed Al Khalifa and commander of the National Guard made a similar visit. It was only then that the advertisements started appearing. The Pakistani government said they have \"nothing to do\" with these recruitments, because they are done via \"private channels\". However, the Iran News Agency reported that in August 2011, Asif Ali Zardari, the President of Pakistan has agreed to send more Pakistani troops to Bahrain during his one-day visit to the country. It was also reported by \"The Jakarta Post\" that the Bahraini government tried to hire Malaysian mercenaries.\n\nAl Jazeera English sources estimated that the number of riot police and the National Guard has increased by as high as 50 percent after at least 2,500 Pakistanis were recruited in April and May 2011. According to Nabeel Rajab, the exact size of the increase is not known, however he said it was \"much more than 1,500 or 2,000\". The size of the National Guard in 2011 was estimated by the US State Department to be 1,200. After requirements its size has increased by about 100 percent.\n\nForeigner officers were among security forces ordered to attack protesters. The BICI report mentioned that officers of Pakistani origins were responsible for mistreatment of detainees. \"He was beaten, tortured and hung. During the first three days, he was stripped of his clothes and sexually assaulted, in addition to being deprived of sleep ... He was routinely beaten and insulted by the prison guards, all of whom were of Pakistani origin\", the report mentioned.\n\nBahraini human rights groups and opposition parties have heavily criticized recruiting mercenaries in the Bahraini security forces. Nabeel Rajab said \"They're told they are going to go to a holy war in Bahrain to kill some non-Muslims or kafir [infidel] or Shias ... And those are maybe responsible for a lot of killing and a lot of systematic torture and human rights violations committed in the past months and years\". Michael Stephens, of the Royal United Services Institute linked recruiting mercenaries in the Bahraini security forces to the lack of government confidence in its own citizens. \"So they rely on foreign recruits to unquestioningly carry out orders of violently suppressing protests\", he said. Bruce Riedel, a leading American expert on South Asia said \"when the very serious demonstrations began and it looked like the regime might even be toppled at a certain point, their hiring of mercenaries went up substantially\".\n\nAs of 2014, the uprising had resulted in about 164 deaths. The number of injuries is hard to determine due to government clamp-down on hospitals and medical personnel. The last accurate estimate for injuries is from 16 March 2011 and sits at about 2,708. The Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry concluded that many detainees were subjected to torture and other forms of physical and psychological abuse while in police custody, leading to the death of five detainees. The BICI report finds the government responsible for 20 deaths (November 2011). Opposition activists say that the current number is about 78 including 34 who allegedly died as a result of excessive use of tear gas.\n\nThe total number of injured since the start of the uprising is not known. This is due to protesters fear of being arrested while receiving treatment at hospitals for injuries sustained during the protest. As of 16 March 2011, the total number is, at least 2,708. Another 200 injuries were treated by Médecins Sans Frontières outside hospitals, for a total of 2,908. A doctor who asked to remain anonymous said he secretly treats about 50 injured protesters a week (~2,500 in a year). In addition, minister of Interior Rashid bin Abdullah Al Khalifa claimed that 395 police officers were injured, four of them allegedly \"abducted and tortured\".\n\nThe Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry found that there were 35 deaths between 14 February and 15 April 2011 linked to the uprising. The Commission found the government responsible for 20 of these deaths, protesters responsible for 3, and mobs responsible for 2. The Commission could not attribute the remaining 10 deaths to a perpetrator. Additionally, the Commission found that there were another 11 deaths potentially linked to the uprising between 16 April and 6 October 2011. Between 7 October 2011 and 5 April 2012, the Bahrain Centre for Human Rights (BCHR) reported 32 deaths linked to the uprising, for a total of 78 deaths. The total number, counting all related incidents, even those not mentioned in the BICI report and BCHR is 90 deaths as of 21 April 2012.\n\nBahrain's \"Gulf Daily News\" newspaper reported that anti-government protesters attacked and killed an elderly taxi driver on 13 March. Other local newspapers reported that he was beaten to death by \"terrorists.\" Bahrain's independent Al-Wasat newspaper cited witnesses saying the taxi driver died in a traffic accident. The Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry did not report any such death connected to the unrest. Additionally, a report by the Associated Press, quoting an unnamed security official in Saudi Arabia, stated that a Saudi soldier was shot dead by protesters in Bahrain on 15 March. Bahrain state television denied this report, and the Commission did not report any such death connected to the unrest.\n\n\nCoverage of the uprising within Bahrain has been controversial and confusing, with numerous incidents where media outlets reported conflicting reports of deaths and violence both by government forces and anti-government protesters. Both national and international journalists have had difficulty gaining access to protests and allegations of bias have caused scandals in two leading Arabic new sources, Al Jazeera and Al Arabiya.\n\nInternational correspondents from several major news outlets had difficulty gaining entry to Bahrain or, once there, having the freedom to pursue stories. The Information Affairs Authority (IAA) lists a number of media outlets that would be allowed access to Bahrain, including the BBC, Financial Times and news agencies such as Reuters and the Associated Press. However, claiming that the western media published and broadcast false and biased reports, the government of Bahrain denied visas to several international journalists. The Agence France-Presse (AFP), The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Christian Science Monitor, and the UK's Channel 4 and Al Jazeera all applied for media visas but had their applications denied.\n\nIn addition to refusing to grant visas, Bahraini authorities had detained several journalists. On 31 March 2011, four CNN journalists were detained on a charge of not having proper documents. The journalists stated they did possess the correct documents, however, they were not able to conduct the interviews they had scheduled because of their source's fear of being arrested. When the same journalists attempted to interview the president of the Bahrain Centre for Human Rights, Rajab, at his home, six military vehicles arrived and 20 masked men surrounded the CNN team and Rajab and deleted all of the photos. Another CNN reporter, Mohammed Jamjoom, was expelled from Bahrain on 16 March, the same day he arrived. He said he was asked to leave without any explanation and a government official escorted him to the airport. CNN produced a documentary about the use of Internet technology and social media in the Arab Spring, including a 13-minute segment on the Bahraini uprising that reported repressive conduct by the government; CNN aired the documentary only once in the United States and not at all on CNN International.\n\nReuters correspondent Frederik Richter, was expelled on 10 May for what the Bahraini government said was biased reporting. On at least two occasions the Bahraini government has commenced or announced legal action against news sources or reporters for articles targeting Bahrain and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe Bahrain Freedom Movement posted on their website that, in the second week of February, many journalists were banned from entering the country to report on the deteriorating situation-especially as the regime increased its cracked down on the protesters.\n\nIn order to evaluate the situation of freedom of expression in the country, a delegation of international NGOs was supposed to make a visit from 5 to 10 May 2012. The delegation received permission from the Bahraini government on 11 April. The government, however, withdrew its permission on 30 April, claiming that new regulations had taken effect that prevented the presence of more than one international NGO in any one week. The delegation was to have consisted of representatives of NGOs including Reporters Without Borders, Freedom House, the Gulf Centre for Human Rights, Index on Censorship, PEN International and the Committee to Protect Journalists.\n\nIn June 2012, the BBC admitted making \"major errors\" in its coverage of the unrest. In an 89-page report, 9 pages were devoted to the BBC's coverage of Bahrain and included admissions that the BBC had \"underplayed the sectarian aspect of the conflict\" and \"not adequately conveyed the viewpoint of supporters of the monarchy\" by \"[failing] to mention attempts by Crown Prince His Royal Highness Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa to establish dialogue with the opposition\". The report added that \"the government appears to have made a good-faith effort to de-escalate the crisis\" in particular during a period when the BBC's coverage of the unrest dropped substantially and that many people had complained that their coverage was \"utterly one-sided\".\n\nMedia associated with the Gulf Cooperation Council, keep labeling the Shia-majority population in opposition to the ruling Sunni regime as \"terrorists\", \"anarchists\" and \"trouble makers.\" At the same time, the Bahraini regime is presented as non-secterian, tolerant and merciful.\n\nOn 29 September 2012, US journalist Amber Lyon, who was covering the uprising for CNN, described her investigation of how the US ally Bahrain was committing human rights abuses, but said that CNN and the US government pressured her to suppress the news. A documentary on which she had been working was never aired.\n\nDespite extensive, and sometimes even non-stop coverage of the revolutions in Tunisia and Egypt, Al Jazeera's coverage of Bahrain was much less comprehensive.\n\nIn February 2011, several key personnel in Al Jazeera's Beirut office resigned in protest, citing the channel's 'biased' coverage of the uprisings in Syria and Bahrain. This includes Bureau managing director Hassan Shaaban and correspondent Ali Hashem. Hashem stated that the channel refused to show photos which might favor the Syrian government's position and would not air material that showed violence in Bahrain.\n\nGhassan Ben Jeddo, who had been the head of the Beirut Bureau before resigning in April 2011, said that Al Jazeera was biased in covering the Arab Spring, especially in Syria and Bahrain.\n\nCalifornia State University, Stanislaus politics professor As'ad AbuKhalil noted that Al Jazeera avoided inviting Bahraini or Omani or Saudi critics of the Bahraini regime to speak on the air, alluding to the also scant coverage of protests in Oman and Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn April 2011, David Pollack at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, noted that, \"Al jazeera Arabic did not report on the hardening of the Bahraini opposition on March 8, when the Coalition for a Bahraini Republic called for an end to the monarchy, nor did it cover protests held there on March 9, 10, and 13, the critical days leading to Saudi Arabia's decision to send troops into Bahrain.\" In one extreme example Pollack noted that at one point Al Jazeera English had a picture of Saudi troops headed across the causeway connecting Saudi Arabia and Bahrain while Al Jazeera Arabic ran a completely different headline proclaiming \"Bahrain's Government Rejects Foreign Intervention\" — alluding to a rejection Iranian interference.\n\nIn 2010, a WikiLeaks document mentioned Al Jazeera several times. One such document revealed that the Qatari government referred to Al Jazeera as \"a bargaining tool to repair relationships with other countries, particularly those soured by Al Jazeera's broadcasts, including the United States.\" This was confirmed by another WikiLeaks document stating \"Relations [between Qatar and Saudi Arabia] are generally improving after Qatar toned down criticism of the House of Saud on Al Jazeera.\" Another WikiLeaks document indicated that Al Jazeera \"has proved itself a useful tool for the station's political masters.\".\n\nAl Jazeera's leadership told Reuters in mid-April 2011 that it faced a \"challenging terrain\" in Bahrain and that \"Editorial priorities are weighed on a number of factors at any given moment.\".\n\nJournalist Don Debar, who has Al Jazeera experience, confirmed that the station has been heavily guided by the Qatari government in its policies. Stating, \"The head of the bureau in Beirut quit, many other people quit because of the biased coverage and outright hand of the government in dictating editorial policy over Libya, and now Syria\".\n\nCritics did note that Al Jazeera coverage of the crisis in Bahrain did increase in May and June 2011 and conceded that the severe press restrictions in Bahrain made coverage extremely difficult.\n\nThe Qatar-based Al Jazeera has been heralded as one of the few networks who gave comprehensive and unbiased coverage of the Tunisian and Egyptian revolutions. The network is widely credited with helping protests maintain the momentum which resulted in the overthrow of the entrenched regimes of Tunisia's Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egypt's Hosni Mubarak. Al Jazeera was able to subvert government bans on its coverage by soliciting images from people on the ground, even providing them with a special address where they could send mobile phone images. When social unrest began in Yemen and Al Jazeera turned their focus east, Yemeni President, Ali Abdullah Saleh, accused the network of running an \"operations room to burn the Arab nation.\" and revoked the Al Jazeera correspondents' licenses.\n\nThe Saudi-owned channel Al Arabiya has also been conservative in its coverage. When former Tunisian President Ben Ali sought refuge in Saudi Arabia after fleeing unrest in his own country, Al Arabiya referred to the revolution in Tunisia as \"the change\".\n\nThe popular talk show \"Studio Cairo\" was cancelled in February after its host, Hafez al-Mirazi said on the air he would host a discussion on Gulf political reform on his next show. al-Mirazi defended his actions, saying,\n\nAl Arabiya's coverage has been less conservative in covering the Arab revolutions in Libya and Syria. Both of which have poor relationships with Saudi Arabia.\n\nMedia coverage from within Bahrain has been problematic. Some cases produced only gone unconfirmed or contradictory reports, such as the death of an elderly taxi driver on 13 March 2011. The Gulf Daily News reported that the driver had been beaten to death by anti-government protesters. Other Bahraini media reported the driver as killed by terrorists. Independent newspaper Al-Wasat reported the cause of death as a simple traffic accident and cited witnesses. The Commission of Inquiry did not report any deaths like this connected to the uprisings.\n\nBeginning in med-February 2011, Bahrain's main television station, BTV, launched a series of talk shows whose sole purpose appears to have been the incitement of public opinion against opposition sympathizers. Protesters were described by talk-show hosts as 'terrorists', 'foreign agents' and 'thugs'.\n\nAnother instance was the supposed death of a Saudi Arabian soldier on 15 March 2011, reported by the Associated Press. The information was said to have come from a Saudi official, but Bahrain news organizations denied the report and the Commission of Inquiry, again, found no proof of it.\n\nBahraini newspapers have given substantial coverage to the protests, although many of them tend to self-censor and adopt the government point of view, avoiding criticism of the king and the Royal family.\n\nAl-Wasat, a newspaper founded by an opposition figure in 2004, was an exception to this rule and a positive influence on other newspapers according to the Committee to Protect Journalists.\nDespite all the censorship, the Government allowed Al-Wasat to keep operating, only suspending the newspaper for one day, on 3 April 2011. However, this permission came with heavy costs to the newspaper's editors and journalists. After the suspension on 3 April the editor-in-chief, among other editors, was forced to resign and Karim Fakhrami, one of the founders of Al-Wasat, was arrested on the same day and died in custody on 12 April. The public announcement said that his death was due to kidney failure. However, the Committee to Protect Journalists said that there were bruises on his body and the final report of the Commission of Inquiry classified Fakhrami's death as due to torture.\n\nRecent events against Bahraini media led Reporters without Borders to issue this statement:\n\nOver the phone, opposition activist Mohammed al-Maskati alleged that pro-government media falsely claimed that Shia clerical leaders were behind the mass demonstrations over the last month. To combat pro-government media bias citizen reporters became an active part of the protest movement.\n\nYouTube footage shows unarmed protesters getting shot. The uploader of one of the videos commented that the individual who had been shot was refused medical treatment at the hospital. Another video shows him receiving medical treatment in a local home. The Bahrain government attempted to block information from citizen reporters and sites used by protesters. The Bahrain Centre for Human Rights said that Bahraini authorities were blocking a Facebook group being used for planned protests on 14 February, and that its own website had been blocked for many years.\n\nMedia coverage surrounding the Formula One race, held 22 April 2012, once again raised the issue of media coverage and press freedom in Bahrain. It was impossible for international news organizations to cover the race without also covering the many protests arranged by democratic advocates in an effort to expose their fight to the world. The increasingly western media coverage of the race had more criticism of the Bahraini regime in the previous periods of the uprising.\n\nReuters had an article stating that the race would continue as planned, despite the protests and violence, but also highlighted the cancellation of the race in 2011. A CNN opinion article touted the race as an insult to democratic reformers. British newspaper, The Guardian, ran an editorial criticizing Formula One managers for continuing with the race with the current conditions in Bahrain.\n\nThe Bahrain government denounced news coverage of the protests, saying they were isolated incidents. The government also barred some foreign journalists who had been sent to cover the race, possibly fearing they would report on the protests. As a result, many international media had to work without press accreditation visas. Reporters Without Borders reported that several foreign journalists working for British and Japanese news agencies respectively were briefly arrested and released during the race.\n\nPrior to the outbreak of the larger scale protests and the first domestic crackdown, King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa made a series of announcements to appease protesters. The government was to give to each family, which was interpreted by \"Al Jazeera\" as a favour to all Bahraini citizens. The King also offered to increase social spending and to release minors jailed after the August 2010 protests. On 15 February, King Hamad appeared on television and offered condolences for the deaths of two protesters, said that a parliamentary committee to investigate the deaths would be created, and stated that peaceful protests are legal. The following day the president of the Bahrain Centre for Human Rights, Nabeel Rajab, said that the King's response was not enough to satisfy protesters' demands. After the government crackdown with the support of Saudi Arabia, the king said that \"An external plot has been fomented for 20 to 30 years until the ground was ripe for subversive designs...I here announce the failure of the fomented plot.\" He also thanked the GCC states for their intervention.\n\nHe called for \"dialogue\" and a direction that the King's son, Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, work on a resolution to the conflict. On 13 March, in a televised statement, Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa renewed his call for national dialogue, promising talks would address key demands such as bolstering the power of parliament and that any deal could be put to a referendum. He said talks would also cover electoral and governmental reforms, as well as looking into claims of corruption and sectarianism.\n\nKing Hamad took a series of steps aimed at initiating a period of reconciliation following the unrest in February and March 2011. He established the Bahrain national dialogue on 1 July 2011 as a forum for the discussion and promotion of reform. The National Dialogue aims to establish \"common principles for the relaunch of the political reform process,\" according to chairman Khalifa Al Dhahrani. The genuine substance of this proposal has been disputed by many opposition figures. – it has even been referred to disparagingly as a \"chitchat room\". Out of 300 participants, Al Wefaq, Bahrain's main opposition party had only 5 seats and pulled from the dialogue 2 weeks after it started and about 1-week before it ended. In total the opposition parties had only 25 out of 300 seats, Maryam al-Khawaja said.\n\nThe King also established the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry (BICI), chaired by noted human rights lawyer M. Cherif Bassiouni, on 29 June 2011 to investigate the events of February and March 2011 and their consequences. The report was released on 23 November and confirmed the Bahraini government's use of torture and other forms of physical and psychological abuse on detainees. It has been criticized for not disclosing the names of individual perpetrators of abuses and extending accountability only to those who actively carried out human rights violations.\n\nAbdul Jalil Khalil, an Al Wefaq National Islamic Society member of parliament, described the 17 February pre-dawn police raid on the Pearl Roundabout encampment as \"real terrorism\", stating that \"whoever took the decision to attack the protest was aiming to kill.\" Its MP Jassim Hussein said that \"I don't think the regime is willing to meet most of our demands. But even if it does, I am not sure it will be enough to get the youth off the street. It is personal now.\" Following demands from young protesters for the end of the ruling regime and in protest against the deaths during demonstrations, all eighteen party MPs submitted their official resignations from parliament.\n\nFour members of the Shura council, the upper house of parliament, Mohamed Hadi al-Halawji, Mohamed Baqir Hasan Radi, Nasser al-Mubarak and Nada Hafad resigned in protests against the crackdown. Hafad quit first accusing the government and state media of attempting to foment divisions within Bahraini society.\n\nA parliamentary by-election was held on 24 September 2011 to replace the 18 members of the largest political party in parliament, Al Wefaq, who had resigned in protest at governmental actions. Security forces made several arrests on the 23 and 24 September, closed Pearl Roundabout and attacked protestors in the village of Sanabis, who intended to march to the Pearl Roundabout.\n\nIn 2011, the government of the United Kingdom approved the sale of military equipment valued at more than £1m to Bahrain, following the violent crackdown on demonstrators. This included licenses for gun silencers, weapons sights, rifles, artillery and components for military training aircraft; at least some of the equipment used by Al Khalifa regime to suppress demonstrations was imported from Britain. The UK subsequently revoked many of its export licenses to Bahrain, amidst public pressure.\n\nThe 2012 status of these licenses has not been substantially documented. The United Kingdom has close ties with the Bahraini regime; indeed, in late 2012, the United Kingdom signed a defense cooperation agreement with the Bahraini government.\n\nIn June 2013, delegates from Bahrain, where allegations of torture in police custody and in prisons are widespread, were given permission to access the Yarl's Wood Immigration Removal Centre in Bedfordshire accompanied by members of the UK prison watchdog HMIP.\n\nIn September 2016, a report revealed a state-owned Belfast business has trained forces in Bahrain that use torture to secure death sentences. Northern Ireland Co-operation Overseas Ltd, or NI-CO , has worked with Bahrain's police, prison guards and ombudsman's office for years. The company trains Bahrain's Interior Ministry Ombudsman, a watchdog which knowingly refused for more than two years to investigate complaints regarding the torture of Mohamed Ramadan—a father-of-three on death row who was tortured into making a false confession. NI-CO is embedded in Bahrain's internal security apparatus: a victim could be abused by NI-CO trained police, tortured in prison by NI-CO trained guards, and then have their torture allegation investigated and dismissed by the NI-CO trained ombudsman. In 2015–16, the UK Foreign Office awarded NI-CO over £900,000 out of a £2 million aid package to promote purported human rights reform in Bahrain, which is a close British ally.\n\nReprieve a human rights defender organisation published an investigative report about Britain involvement in Bahrain's regime autrocity in 2016. The report says that seven innocent men are facing the death penalty in Bahrain after being tortured into the false confessions of crimes.\n\nOn 13 January 2017, it emerged that a controversial multimillion-pound programme of support for Bahrain's security and justice system was being bolstered by a further £2m of British funding, despite the Persian Gulf state reversing reforms to an intelligence agency accused of torture. Only two days later, on Sunday 15 January 2017 Al Khalifa regime executed 3 Bahraini activists amid public anger.\n\nThe uprising has had consequences for Bahrain from the international community as well as foreign investors, including Formula One, which canceled the 2011 Bahrain Grand Prix due to instability and the outcry over the actions of the Bahraini government. Western governments and organisations have generally expressed more magnanimity toward the Bahraini government, seen as a key ally of the European Union and the United States and a bulwark against nearby Iran, than they have toward other governments accused of violating the human rights of protesters during the Arab Spring. The United States and the United Kingdom have condemned the use of violence by Bahraini authorities. They did not call for regime change or threaten sanctions.\n\nIran has expressed strong support for demonstrators, the majority of whom follow Shia Islam, the Iranian state religion. Relations between Tehran and Manama have cooled considerably during the uprising, with both countries expelling one another's ambassadors. Iran was joined by Iraq in opposing the Gulf Cooperation Council's military intervention in Bahrain. Allies of the Bahraini government, such as Saudi Arabia and other GCC member states, have conversely blamed Iran for inciting upheaval in the small archipelago country and questioned the legitimacy of the protesters' demands, echoing Manama's claims.\n\nThousands of Shia protesters arose in Iraq and Qatif, Saudi Arabia, in opposition to the Saudi-led intervention in Bahrain. The Gulf Cooperation Council and the Saudi government have defended the action as necessary to restore stability and security in the country.\n\nHuman rights groups including Amnesty International and Physicians for Human Rights have documented alleged atrocities in Bahrain and strongly condemned authorities' response to the uprising. The treatment of medical professionals accused of administering to opposition activists has been a particular source of distress to critics of the government, including both human rights advocates and journalists working in the region.\n\nThe Bahraini government's decision to establish an independent inquiry to investigate the unrest won praise from many western governments, such as the United Kingdom and the United States, as well as human rights organisations such as Amnesty International. However, many of the recommendations made in the report were not implemented, including allowing human rights organizations into the country to observe and report on the situation. In January, Brian Dooley of Human Rights First and Courtney C. Radsch and two other activists from Freedom House were denied entry to the country.\n\nBahrain's government spent millions of pounds on public relations, particularly with PR companies in Britain and the US, with which the regime has close diplomatic, military and commercial links, in an effort to try to improve its bloodied image.\n\nThe list of companies or individuals hired by or linked to the Bahrain government since the start of the uprising includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "606818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606818", "title": "Bardo Thodol", "text": "Bardo Thodol\n\nThe Bardo Thodol (, \"Liberation Through Hearing During the Intermediate State\") is a text from a larger corpus of teachings, the \"Profound Dharma of Self-Liberation through the Intention of the Peaceful and Wrathful Ones\", revealed by Karma Lingpa (1326–1386). It is the best-known work of Nyingma literature, and is known in the West as the Tibetan Book of the Dead.\n\nThe Tibetan text describes, and is intended to guide one through, the experiences that the consciousness has after death, in the bardo, the interval between death and the next rebirth. The text also includes chapters on the signs of death and rituals to undertake when death is closing in or has taken place.\n\n\"Bar do thos grol\" () translates as:\n\n\nAccording to Tibetan tradition, the \"Liberation Through Hearing During the Intermediate State\" was composed in the 8th century by Padmasambhava, written down by his primary student, Yeshe Tsogyal, buried in the Gampo hills in central Tibet and subsequently discovered by a Tibetan terton, Karma Lingpa, in the 14th century.\n\nThe Tibetan title is \"bar do thos grol\", \"Liberation Through Hearing During the Intermediate State\". It consists of two comparatively long texts:\nWithin the texts themselves, the two combined are referred to as \"Liberation through Hearing in the Bardo\", \"Great Liberation through Hearing\", or just \"Liberation through Hearing\".\n\nIt is part of a larger terma cycle, \"Profound Dharma of Self-Liberation through the Intention of the Peaceful and Wrathful Ones\", (\"zab-chos zhi khro dgongs pa rang grol\", also known as \"kar-gling zhi-khro\", popularly known as \"Karma Lingpa's Peaceful and Wrathful Ones.\"\n\nThe \"Profound Dharma of Self-Liberation\" is known in several versions, containing varying numbers of sections and subsections, and arranged in different orders, ranging from around ten to thirty-eight titles. The individual texts cover a wide range of subjects, including meditation instructions, visualizations of deities, liturgies and prayers, lists of mantras, descriptions of the signs of death, indications of future rebirth, and texts such as the \"bar do thos grol\" that are concerned with the bardo-state.\n\nThe \"Bardo Thodol\" differentiates the intermediate state between lives into three bardos: \n\nThe \"Liberation Through Hearing During the Intermediate State\" also mentions three other bardos:\n\nTogether these \"six bardos\" form a classification of states of consciousness into six broad types. Any state of consciousness can form a type of \"intermediate state\", intermediate between other states of consciousness. Indeed, one can consider any momentary state of consciousness a bardo, since it lies between our past and future existences; it provides us with the opportunity to experience reality, which is always present but obscured by the projections and confusions that are due to our previous unskillful actions.\n\nThe \"bar do thos grol\" is known in the west as \"The Tibetan Book of the Dead\", a title popularized by Walter Evans-Wentz's edition, but as such virtually unknown in Tibet. \"The Tibetan Book of the Dead\" was first published in 1927 by Oxford University Press. Dr. Walter Y. Evans-Wentz chose this title because of the parallels he found with the Egyptian Book of the Dead.\n\nAccording to John Myrdhin Reynolds, Evans-Wentz's edition of the \"Tibetan Book of the Dead\" introduced a number of misunderstandings about Dzogchen. In fact, Evans-Wentz' collected seven texts about visualization of the after-death experiences and he introduced this work collection as \"The Tibetan Book of Death.\" Evans-Wentz was well acquainted with Theosophy and used this framework to interpret the translation of \"The Tibetan Book of the Dead\", which was largely provided by two Tibetan lamas who spoke English, Lama Sumdhon Paul and Lama Lobzang Mingnur Dorje. Evans-Wentz was not familiar with Tibetan Buddhism, and his view of Tibetan Buddhism was \"fundamentally neither Tibetan nor Buddhist, but Theosophical and Vedantist.\" He introduced a terminology into the translation which was largely derived from Hinduism, as well as from his Theosophical beliefs. Contrary to the general belief spread in the West by Evans-Wentz, in Tibetan Buddhist practice the Tibetan Book of Dead is not read to the people who are passing away, but it is rather used during life by those who want to learn to visualize what will come after death.\n\nC. G. Jung’s psychological commentary first appeared in an English translation by R. F. C. Hull in the third revised and expanded Evans-Wentz edition of The Tibetan Book of the Dead. The commentary also appears in the Collected Works. Jung applied his extensive knowledge of eastern religion to craft a commentary specifically aimed at a western audience unfamiliar with eastern religious tradition in general and Tibetan Buddhism specifically. He does not attempt to directly correlate the content of the Bardo Thodol with rituals or dogma found in occidental religion, but rather highlights karmic phenomena described on the Bardo plane and shows how they parallel unconscious contents (both personal and collective) encountered in the west, particularly in the context of analytical psychology. Jung’s comments should be taken strictly within the realm of psychology, and not that of theology or metaphysics. Indeed, he warns repeatedly of the dangers for western man in the wholesale adoption of eastern religious traditions such as yoga.\n\n\n\"The Psychedelic Experience\", published in 1964, is a guide for LSD-trips, written by Timothy Leary, Ralph Metzner and Richard Alpert, loosely based on Evan-Wentz's translation of the \"Tibetan Book of the Dead\". Aldous Huxley introduced the \"Tibetan Book of the Dead\" to Timothy Leary. According to Leary, Metzner and Alpert, the \"Tibetan Book of the Dead\" is \nThey construed the effect of LSD as a \"stripping away\" of ego-defenses, finding parallels between the stages of death and rebirth in the \"Tibetan Book of the Dead\", and the stages of psychological \"death\" and \"rebirth\" which Leary had identified during his research. \nAccording to Leary, Metzner and Albert it is:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3634262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3634262", "title": "Blue Brain Project", "text": "Blue Brain Project\n\nThe Blue Brain, a Swiss national brain initiative, aims to create a digital reconstruction of the brain by reverse-engineering mammalian brain circuitry. The mission of the project, founded in May 2005 by the Brain and Mind Institute of the \"École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne\" (EPFL) in Switzerland, is to use biologically-detailed digital reconstructions and simulations of the mammalian brain (brain simulation) to identify the fundamental principles of brain structure and function in health and disease.\n\nThe project is headed by the founding director Henry Markram, who also launched the European Human Brain Project, and co-directed by Felix Schürmann and Sean Hill. Using a Blue Gene supercomputer running Michael Hines's NEURON software, the simulation does not consist simply of an artificial neural network, but involves a biologically realistic model of neurons, and an empirically reconstructed model connectome. It is hoped that it will eventually shed light on the nature of consciousness.\n\nThere are a number of sub-projects, including the Cajal Blue Brain, coordinated by the Supercomputing and Visualization Center of Madrid (CeSViMa), and others run by universities and independent laboratories.\n\nThe initial goal of the project, completed in December 2006, was the simulation of a rat neocortical column, which is considered by some researchers to be the smallest functional unit of the neocortex (the part of the brain thought to be responsible for higher functions such as conscious thought). In humans, each column is about 2 mm in length, has a diameter of 0.5 mm and contains about 60,000 neurons; rat neocortical columns are very similar in structure but contain only 10,000 neurons (and 10 synapses). Between 1995 and 2005, Markram mapped the types of neurons and their connections in such a column.\n\nIn November 2007, the project reported the end of the first phase, delivering a data-driven process for creating, validating, and researching the neocortical column.\n\nBy 2005, the first single cellular model was completed. The first artificial cellular neocortical column of 10,000 cells was built by 2008. By July 2011, a cellular mesocircuit of 100 neocortical columns with a million cells in total was built. A cellular rat brain is planned for 2014 with 100 mesocircuits totalling a hundred million cells. Finally a cellular human brain is predicted possible by 2023 equivalent to 1000 rat brains with a total of a hundred billion cells.\n\nNow that the column is finished, the project is currently busying itself with the publishing of initial results in scientific literature, and pursuing two separate goals:\n\nIn 2015, scientists at École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL) developed a quantitative model of the previously unknown relationship between the glial cell astrocytes and neurons. This model describes the energy management of the brain through the function of the neuro-glial vascular unit (NGV). The additional layer of neuron-glial cells is being added to Blue Brain Project models to improve functionality of the system.\n\nRecently,Blue Brain Project releases first-ever digital 3D brain cell atlas:- The Blue Brain Cell Atlas is like 'going from hand-drawn maps to Google Earth' -- providing previously unavailable information on major cell types, numbers and positions in all 737 brain regions. This comprehensive, interactive and dynamic online resource allows anyone to visualize every region in the mouse brain, cell-by-cell and in 3D, and freely download data for new analyses and modelling. It can also be continuously be updated with new findings.\n\nThe project is funded primarily by the Swiss government and the Future and Emerging Technologies (FET) Flagship grant from the European Commission, and secondarily by grants and some donations from private individuals. The EPFL bought the Blue Gene computer at a reduced cost because at that stage it was still a prototype and IBM was interested in exploring how different applications would perform on the machine. BBP was viewed a validation of the Blue Gene supercomputer concept.\n\nA 10-part documentary is being made by film director Noah Hutton, with each installment detailing the year-long workings of the project at the EPFL. Having started filming in 2009, the documentary is planned to be released in 2020, after the years of filming and editing have finished. Regular contributions from Henry Markram and the rest of the team provide an insight into the Blue Brain Project, while similar research tasks across the world are touched on.\n\nThe Cajal Blue Brain is coordinated by the Technical University of Madrid and uses the facilities of the Supercomputing and Visualization Center of Madrid and its supercomputer Magerit. The Cajal Institute also participates in this collaboration. The main lines of research currently being pursued at Cajal Blue Brain include neurological experimentation and computer simulations. Nanotechnology, in the form of a newly designed brain microscope, plays an important role in its research plans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17062920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17062920", "title": "DNA damage theory of aging", "text": "DNA damage theory of aging\n\nThe DNA damage theory of aging proposes that aging is a consequence of unrepaired accumulation of naturally occurring DNA damages. Damage in this context is a DNA alteration that has an abnormal structure. Although both mitochondrial and nuclear DNA damage can contribute to aging, nuclear DNA is the main subject of this analysis. Nuclear DNA damage can contribute to aging either indirectly (by increasing apoptosis or cellular senescence) or directly (by increasing cell dysfunction).\n\nSeveral review articles have shown that deficient DNA repair, allowing greater accumulation of DNA damages, causes premature aging; and that increased DNA repair facilitates greater longevity. Mouse models of nucleotide-excision–repair syndromes reveal a striking correlation between the degree to which specific DNA repair pathways are compromised and the severity of accelerated aging, strongly suggesting a causal relationship. Human populations studies show that single-nucleotide polymorphisms in DNA repair genes, causing up-regulation of their expression, correlate with increases in longevity. Lombard et al. compiled a lengthy list of mouse mutational models with pathologic features of premature aging, all caused by different DNA repair defects. Freitas and de Magalhães presented a comprehensive review and appraisal of the DNA damage theory of aging, including a detailed analysis of many forms of evidence linking DNA damage to aging. As an example, they described a study showing that centenarians of 100 to 107 years of age had higher levels of two DNA repair enzymes, PARP1 and Ku70, than general-population old individuals of 69 to 75 years of age. Their analysis supported the hypothesis that improved DNA repair leads to longer life span. Overall, they concluded that while the complexity of responses to DNA damage remains only partly understood, the idea that DNA damage accumulation with age is the primary cause of aging remains an intuitive and powerful one.\n\nIn humans and other mammals, DNA damage occurs frequently and DNA repair processes have evolved to compensate. In estimates made for mice, DNA lesions occur on average 25 to 115 times per minute in each cell, or about 36,000 to 160,000 per cell per day. Some DNA damage may remain in any cell despite the action of repair processes. The accumulation of unrepaired DNA damage is more prevalent in certain types of cells, particularly in non-replicating or slowly replicating cells, such as cells in the brain, skeletal and cardiac muscle.\n\nTo understand the DNA damage theory of aging it is important to distinguish between DNA damage and mutation, the two major types of errors that occur in DNA. Damage and mutation are fundamentally different. DNA damage is any physical abnormality in the DNA, such as single and double strand breaks, 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine residues and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon adducts. DNA damage can be recognized by enzymes, and thus can be correctly repaired using the complementary undamaged sequence in a homologous chromosome if it is available for copying. If a cell retains DNA damage, transcription of a gene can be prevented and thus translation into a protein will also be blocked. Replication may also be blocked and/or the cell may die. Descriptions of reduced function, characteristic of aging and associated with accumulation of DNA damage, are given later in this article.\n\nIn contrast to DNA damage, a mutation is a change in the base sequence of the DNA. A mutation cannot be recognized by enzymes once the base change is present in both DNA strands, and thus a mutation cannot be repaired. At the cellular level, mutations can cause alterations in protein function and regulation. Mutations are replicated when the cell replicates. In a population of cells, mutant cells will increase or decrease in frequency according to the effects of the mutation on the ability of the cell to survive and reproduce. Although distinctly different from each other, DNA damages and mutations are related because DNA damages often cause errors of DNA synthesis during replication or repair and these errors are a major source of mutation.\n\nGiven these properties of DNA damage and mutation, it can be seen that DNA damages are a special problem in non-dividing or slowly dividing cells, where unrepaired damages will tend to accumulate over time. On the other hand, in rapidly dividing cells, unrepaired DNA damages that do not kill the cell by blocking replication will tend to cause replication errors and thus mutation. The great majority of mutations that are not neutral in their effect are deleterious to a cell’s survival. Thus, in a population of cells comprising a tissue with replicating cells, mutant cells will tend to be lost. However, infrequent mutations that provide a survival advantage will tend to clonally expand at the expense of neighboring cells in the tissue. This advantage to the cell is disadvantageous to the whole organism, because such mutant cells can give rise to cancer. Thus DNA damages in frequently dividing cells, because they give rise to mutations, are a prominent cause of cancer. In contrast, DNA damages in infrequently dividing cells are likely a prominent cause of aging.\n\nThe first person to suggest that DNA damage, as distinct from mutation, is the primary cause of aging was Alexander in 1967. By the early 1980s there was significant experimental support for this idea in the literature. By the early 1990s experimental support for this idea was substantial, and furthermore it had become increasingly evident that oxidative DNA damage, in particular, is a major cause of aging.\n\nIn a series of articles from 1970 to 1977, PV Narasimh Acharya, Phd. (1924–1993) theorized and presented evidence that cells undergo \"irreparable DNA damage,\" whereby DNA crosslinks occur when both normal cellular repair processes fail and cellular apoptosis does not occur. Specifically, Acharya noted that double-strand breaks and a \"cross-linkage joining both strands at the same point is irreparable because neither strand can then serve as a template for repair. The cell will die in the next mitosis or in some rare instances, mutate.\"\n\nIn tissues composed of non- or infrequently replicating cells, DNA damage can accumulate with age and lead either to loss of cells, or, in surviving cells, loss of gene expression. Accumulated DNA damage is usually measured directly. Numerous studies of this type have indicated that oxidative damage to DNA is particularly important. The loss of expression of specific genes can be detected at both the mRNA level and protein level.\n\nThe adult brain is composed in large part of terminally differentiated non-dividing neurons. Many of the conspicuous features of aging reflect a decline in neuronal function. Accumulation of DNA damage with age in the mammalian brain has been reported during the period 1971 to 2008 in at least 29 studies. This DNA damage includes the oxidized nucleoside 8-oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxo-dG), single- and double-strand breaks, DNA-protein crosslinks and malondialdehyde adducts (reviewed in Bernstein et al.). Increasing DNA damage with age has been reported in the brains of the mouse, rat, gerbil, rabbit, dog, and human.\n\nRutten et al. showed that single-strand breaks accumulate in the mouse brain with age. Young 4-day-old rats have about 3,000 single-strand breaks and 156 double-strand breaks per neuron, whereas in rats older than 2 years the level of damage increases to about 7,400 single-strand breaks and 600 double-strand breaks per neuron. Sen et al. showed that DNA damages which block the polymerase chain reaction in rat brain accumulate with age. Swain and Rao observed marked increases in several types of DNA damages in aging rat brain, including single-strand breaks, double-strand breaks and modified bases (8-OHdG and uracil). Wolf et al. also showed that the oxidative DNA damage 8-OHdG accumulates in rat brain with age. Similarly, it was shown that as humans age from 48–97 years, 8-OHdG accumulates in the brain.\n\nLu et al. studied the transcriptional profiles of the human frontal cortex of individuals ranging from 26 to 106 years of age. This led to the identification of a set of genes whose expression was altered after age 40. These genes play central roles in synaptic plasticity, vesicular transport and mitochondrial function. In the brain, promoters of genes with reduced expression have markedly increased DNA damage. In cultured human neurons, these gene promoters are selectively damaged by oxidative stress. Thus Lu et al. concluded that DNA damage may reduce the expression of selectively vulnerable genes involved in learning, memory and neuronal survival, initiating a program of brain aging that starts early in adult life.\n\nMuscle strength, and stamina for sustained physical effort, decline in function with age in humans and other species. Skeletal muscle is a tissue composed largely of multinucleated myofibers, elements that arise from the fusion of mononucleated myoblasts. Accumulation of DNA damage with age in mammalian muscle has been reported in at least 18 studies since 1971. We will mention here only two of the more recent studies in rodents plus one in humans. Hamilton et al. reported that the oxidative DNA damage 8-OHdG accumulates in heart and skeletal muscle (as well as in brain, kidney and liver) of both mouse and rat with age. In humans, increases in 8-OHdG with age were reported for skeletal muscle. Catalase is an enzyme that removes hydrogen peroxide, a reactive oxygen species, and thus limits oxidative DNA damage. In mice, when catalase expression is increased specifically in mitochondria, oxidative DNA damage (8-OHdG) in skeletal muscle is decreased and lifespan is increased by about 20%. These findings suggest that mitochondria are a significant source of the oxidative damages contributing to aging.\n\nProtein synthesis and protein degradation decline with age in skeletal and heart muscle, as would be expected, since DNA damage blocks gene transcription. In a recent study Piec et al. found numerous changes in protein expression in rat skeletal muscle with age, including lower levels of several proteins related to myosin and actin. Force is generated in striated muscle by the interactions between myosin thick filaments and actin thin filaments.\n\nLiver hepatocytes do not ordinarily divide and appear to be terminally differentiated, but they retain the ability to proliferate when injured. With age, the mass of the liver decreases, blood flow is reduced, metabolism is impaired, and alterations in microcirculation occur. At least 21 studies have reported an increase in DNA damage with age in liver. For instance, Helbock et al. estimated that the steady state level of oxidative DNA base alterations increased from 24,000 per cell in the liver of young rats to 66,000 per cell in the liver of old rats.\n\nIn kidney, changes with age include reduction in both renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate, and impairment in the ability to concentrate urine and to conserve sodium and water. DNA damages, particularly oxidative DNA damages, increase with age (at least 8 studies). For instance Hashimoto et al. showed that 8-OHdG accumulates in rat kidney DNA with age.\n\nTissue-specific stem cells produce differentiated cells through a series of increasingly more committed progenitor intermediates. In hematopoiesis (blood cell formation), the process begins with long-term hematopoietic stem cells that self-renew and also produce progeny cells that upon further replication go through a series of stages leading to differentiated cells without self-renewal capacity. In mice, deficiencies in DNA repair appear to limit the capacity of hematopoietic stem cells to proliferate and self-renew with age. Sharpless and Depinho reviewed evidence that hematopoietic stem cells, as well as stem cells in other tissues, undergo intrinsic aging. They speculated that stem cells grow old, in part, as a result of DNA damage. DNA damage may trigger signalling pathways, such as apoptosis, that contribute to depletion of stem cell stocks. This has been observed in several cases of accelerated aging and may occur in normal aging too.\n\nA key aspect of hair loss with age is the aging of the hair follicle. Ordinarily, hair follicle renewal is maintained by the stem cells associated with each follicle. Aging of the hair follicle appears to be due to the DNA damage that accumulates in renewing stem cells during aging.\n\nA popular idea, that has failed to gain significant experimental support, is the idea that mutation, as distinct from DNA damage, is the primary cause of aging. As discussed above, mutations tend to arise in frequently replicating cells as a result of errors of DNA synthesis when template DNA is damaged, and can give rise to cancer. However, in mice there is no increase in mutation in the brain with aging. Mice defective in a gene (Pms2) that ordinarily corrects base mispairs in DNA have about a 100-fold elevated mutation frequency in all tissues, but do not appear to age more rapidly. On the other hand, mice defective in one particular DNA repair pathway show clear premature aging, but do not have elevated mutation.\n\nOne variation of the idea that mutation is the basis of aging, that has received much attention, is that mutations specifically in mitochondrial DNA are the cause of aging. Several studies have shown that mutations accumulate in mitochondrial DNA in infrequently replicating cells with age. DNA polymerase gamma is the enzyme that replicates mitochondrial DNA. A mouse mutant with a defect in this DNA polymerase is only able to replicate its mitochondrial DNA inaccurately, so that it sustains a 500-fold higher mutation burden than normal mice. These mice showed no clear features of rapidly accelerated aging. Overall, the observations discussed in this section indicate that mutations are not the primary cause of aging.\n\nIn rodents, caloric restriction slows aging and extends lifespan. At least 4 studies have shown that caloric restriction reduces 8-OHdG damages in various organs of rodents. One of these studies showed that caloric restriction reduced accumulation of 8-OHdG with age in rat brain, heart and skeletal muscle, and in mouse brain, heart, kidney and liver. More recently, Wolf et al. showed that dietary restriction reduced accumulation of 8-OHdG with age in rat brain, heart, skeletal muscle, and liver. Thus reduction of oxidative DNA damage is associated with a slower rate of aging and increased lifespan.\n\nIf DNA damage is the underlying cause of aging, it would be expected that humans with inherited defects in the ability to repair DNA damages should age at a faster pace than persons without such a defect. Numerous examples of rare inherited conditions with DNA repair defects are known. Several of these show multiple striking features of premature aging, and others have fewer such features. Perhaps the most striking premature aging conditions are Werner syndrome (mean lifespan 47 years), Huchinson-Gilford Progeria (mean lifespan 13 years), and Cockayne syndrome (mean lifespan 13 years).\n\nWerner syndrome is due to an inherited defect in an enzyme (a helicase and exonuclease) that acts in base excision repair of DNA (e.g. see Harrigan et al.).\n\nHutchinson-Guilford Progeria is due to a defect in Lamin A protein which forms a scaffolding within the cell nucleus to organize chromatin and is needed for repair of double-strand breaks in DNA. A-type lamins promote genetic stability by maintaining levels of proteins that have key roles in the DNA repair processes of non-homologous end joining and homologous recombination. Mouse cells deficient for maturation of prelamin A show increased DNA damage and chromosome aberrations and are more sensitive to DNA damaging agents.\n\nCockayne Syndrome is due to a defect in a protein necessary for the repair process, transcription coupled nucleotide excision repair, which can remove damages, particularly oxidative DNA damages, that block transcription.\n\nIn addition to these three conditions, several other human syndromes, that also have defective DNA repair, show several features of premature aging. These include ataxia telangiectasia, Nijmegen breakage syndrome, some subgroups of xeroderma pigmentosum, trichothiodystrophy, Fanconi anemia, Bloom syndrome and Rothmund-Thomson syndrome.\n\nIn addition to human inherited syndromes, experimental mouse models with genetic defects in DNA repair show features of premature aging and reduced lifespan.(e.g. refs.) In particular, mutant mice defective in Ku70, or Ku80, or double mutant mice deficient in both Ku70 and Ku80 exhibit early aging. The mean lifespans of the three mutant mouse strains were similar to each other, at about 37 weeks, compared to 108 weeks for the wild-type control. Six specific signs of aging were examined, and the three mutant mice were found to display the same aging signs as the control mice, but at a much earlier age. Cancer incidence was not increased in the mutant mice. Ku70 and Ku80 form the heterodimer Ku protein essential for the non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) pathway of DNA repair, active in repairing DNA double-strand breaks. This suggests an important role of NHEJ in longevity assurance.\n\nMany authors have noted an association between defects in the DNA damage response and premature aging (see e.g.). If a DNA repair protein is deficient, unrepaired DNA damages tend to accumulate. Such accumulated DNA damages appear to cause features of premature aging (segmental progeria). Table 1 lists 18 DNA repair proteins which, when deficient, cause numerous features of premature aging. \nTable 2 lists DNA repair proteins whose increased expression is connected to extended longevity.\n\nStudies comparing DNA repair capacity in different mammalian species have shown that repair capacity correlates with lifespan. The initial study of this type, by Hart and Setlow, showed that the ability of skin fibroblasts of seven mammalian species to perform DNA repair after exposure to a DNA damaging agent correlated with lifespan of the species. The species studied were shrew, mouse, rat, hamster, cow, elephant and human. This initial study stimulated many additional studies involving a wide variety of mammalian species, and the correlation between repair capacity and lifespan generally held up. In one of the more recent studies, Burkle et al. studied the level of a particular enzyme, Poly ADP ribose polymerase, which is involved in repair of single-strand breaks in DNA. They found that the lifespan of 13 mammalian species correlated with the activity of this enzyme.\n\nThe DNA repair transcriptomes of the liver of humans, naked mole-rats and mice were compared. The maximum lifespans of humans, naked mole-rat, and mouse are respectively ~120, 30 and 3 years. The longer-lived species, humans and naked mole rats expressed DNA repair genes, including core genes in several DNA repair pathways, at a higher level than did mice. In addition, several DNA repair pathways in humans and naked mole-rats were up-regulated compared with mouse. These findings suggest that increased DNA repair facilitates greater longevity.\n\nOver the past decade, a series of papers have shown that the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) base composition correlates with animal species maximum life span. The mitochondrial DNA base composition is though to reflect its nucleotide-specific (guanine, cytosine, thymidine and adenine) different mutation rates (i.e., accumulation of guanine in the mitochondrial DNA of an animal species is due to low guanine mutation rate in the mitochondria of that species).\n\nLymphoblastoid cell lines established from blood samples of humans who lived past 100 years (centenarians) have significantly higher activity of the DNA repair protein Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) than cell lines from younger individuals (20 to 70 years old). The lymphocytic cells of centenarians have characteristics typical of cells from young people, both in their capability of priming the mechanism of repair after HO sublethal oxidative DNA damage and in their PARP capacity.\n\nAs women age, they experience a decline in reproductive performance leading to menopause. This decline is tied to a decline in the number of ovarian follicles. Although 6 to 7 million oocytes are present at mid-gestation in the human ovary, only about 500 (about 0.05%) of these ovulate, and the rest are lost. The decline in ovarian reserve appears to occur at an increasing rate with age, and leads to nearly complete exhaustion of the reserve by about age 51. As ovarian reserve and fertility decline with age, there is also a parallel increase in pregnancy failure and meiotic errors resulting in chromosomally abnormal conceptions.\n\nTitus et al. have proposed an explanation for the decline in ovarian reserve with age. They showed that as women age, double-strand breaks accumulate in the DNA of their primordial follicles. Primordial follicles are immature primary oocytes surrounded by a single layer of granulosa cells. An enzyme system is present in oocytes that normally accurately repairs DNA double-strand breaks. This repair system is referred to as homologous recombinational repair, and it is especially active during meiosis. Titus et al. also showed that expression of four key DNA repair genes that are necessary for homologous recombinational repair (\"BRCA1\", \"MRE11\", \"Rad51\" and \"ATM\") decline in oocytes with age. This age-related decline in ability to repair double-strand damages can account for the accumulation of these damages, which then likely contributes to the decline in ovarian reserve.\n\nWomen with an inherited mutation in the DNA repair gene \"BRCA1\" undergo menopause prematurely, suggesting that naturally occurring DNA damages in oocytes are repaired less efficiently in these women, and this inefficiency leads to early reproductive failure. Genomic data from about 70,000 women were analyzed to identify protein-coding variation associated with age at natural menopause. Pathway analyses identified a major association with DNA damage response genes, particularly those expressed during meiosis and including a common coding variant in the \"BRCA1\" gene.\n\nThe most important risk factor for cardiovascular problems is chronological aging. Several research groups have reviewed evidence for a key role of DNA damage in vascular aging.\nAtherosclerotic plaque contains vascular smooth muscle cells, macrophages and endothelial cells and these have been found to accumulate 8-oxoG, a common type of oxidative DNA damage. DNA strand breaks also increased in atherosclerotic plaques, thus linking DNA damage to plaque formation.\nWerner syndrome (WS), a premature aging condition in humans, is caused by a genetic defect in a RecQ helicase that is employed in several DNA repair processes. WS patients develop a substantial burden of atherosclerotic plaques in their coronary arteries and aorta. These findings link excessive unrepaired DNA damage to premature aging and early atherosclerotic plaque development.\n\nEndogenous, naturally occurring DNA damages are frequent, and in humans include an average of about 10,000 oxidative damages per day and 50 double-strand DNA breaks per cell cycle [see DNA damage (naturally occurring)].\n\nSeveral reviews summarize evidence that the methylation enzyme DNMT1 is recruited to sites of oxidative DNA damage. Recruitment of DNMT1 leads to DNA methylation at the promoters of genes to inhibit transcription during repair. In addition, the 2018 review describes recruitment of DNMT1 during repair of DNA double-strand breaks. DNMT1 localization results in increased DNA methylation near the site of recombinational repair, associated with altered expression of the repaired gene. In general, repair-associated hyper-methylated promoters are restored to their former methylation level after DNA repair is complete. However, these reviews also indicate that transient recruitment of epigenetic modifiers can occasionally result in subsequent stable epigenetic alterations and gene silencing after DNA repair has been completed.\n\nIn human and mouse DNA, cytosine followed by guanine (CpG) is the least frequent dinucleotide, making up less than 1% of all dinucleotides (see CG suppression). At most CpG sites cytosine is methylated to form 5-methylcytosine. As indicated in the article CpG site, in mammals, 70% to 80% of CpG cytosines are methylated. However, in vertebrates there are CpG islands, about 300 to 3,000 base pairs long, with interspersed DNA sequences that deviate significantly from the average genomic pattern by being CpG-rich. These CpG islands are predominantly nonmethylated. In humans, about 70% of promoters located near the transcription start site of a gene (proximal promoters) contain a CpG island (see CpG islands in promoters). If the initially nonmethylated CpG sites in a CpG island become largely methylated, this causes stable silencing of the associated gene.\n\nFor humans, after adulthood is reached and during subsequent aging, the majority of CpG sequences slowly lose methylation (called epigenetic drift). However, the CpG islands that control promoters tend to gain methylation with age. The gain of methylation at CpG islands in promoter regions is correlated with age, and has been used to create an epigenetic clock (see article Epigenetic clock).\n\nThere may be some relationship between the epigenetic clock and epigenetic alterations accumulating after DNA repair. Both unrepaired DNA damage accumulated with age and accumulated methylation of CpG islands would silence genes in which they occur, interfere with protein expression, and contribute to the aging phenotype.\n\n"}
{"id": "41758340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41758340", "title": "Destoroyah", "text": "Destoroyah\n\nDestoroyah originated as a colony of microscopic Precambrian crustaceans that had been awakened and mutated in Tokyo Bay when the Oxygen Destroyer was detonated to kill the original Godzilla in 1954. In 1996, the Destoroyahs eventually mature into man-sized creatures which repel a JSDF assault. The Destoroyahs later combine into a flying form which fights Godzilla Junior. Destoroyah is defeated, but then morphs into an even larger form that dwarfs Godzilla. The creature proceeds to kill Godzilla Junior and faces Godzilla in Haneda Airport, but is finally killed through the combined efforts of Godzilla and army.\n\nIn conceptualizing Godzilla's final adversary, screenwriter Kazuki Ōmori initially proposed having the current Heisei Godzilla fight Ghost Godzilla, the specter of the original 1954 Godzilla, though this idea was scrapped, as Godzilla had already fought several doppelgängers (Biollante, Mechagodzilla and SpaceGodzilla). It was however decided to maintain references to the original film by bringing back the Oxygen Destroyer, the weapon that killed the first Godzilla. The character was initially going to be named \"Barubaroi\", though this was rejected on account of it sounding too similar to Berber, and thus could have been considered offensive. The Barubaroi designs were much more squid-like than the finalized Destoroyah look, though they shared Destoroyah's trait of surpassing Godzilla in height.\n\nAll of Destoroyah's forms were designed by Minoru Yoshida, who'd been instructed to make the creature a crustacean. His design for Destoroyah's final form was given to illustrator Noriyoshi Ohrai, who incorporated it into the movie poster. Ohrai's depiction was later used as the basis for the 3D model used in constructing the creature's suit.\n\nComposer Akira Ifukube had initially wanted to give each of Destoroyah's forms their own motif, though he subsequently chose to give them all the same theme. He chose not to use the Oxygen Destroyer theme from the original 1954 film, as he felt that the theme expressed the tragedy of the weapon's creator, and thus was inappropriate for a monster.\n\nAlong with the film receiving positive reviews, Destoroyah is often considered to be one of the best Godzilla villains. Miles Imhoff of Toho Kingdom called Destoroyah \"perhaps the most heartless and cruel of any kaiju to ever exist.\" He said \"the props and suit look amazing, and are really an excellent choice for Godzilla's final Heisei foe. The reddish hues, the jagged features, and the demonic appearance of the many forms of Destoroyah are handled nicely. In fact, its wild and deadly features, coupled with its personality and several stages, can easily be seen as a loose remake of Hedorah. Destoroyah's many forms are portrayed as vicious, but it is the final form that is shown to be truly cold. The portrayal of its ruthless murder of Junior is a form of cruelty truly unseen since the vicious tooth-and-claw battles of the latter Showa entries, and it is this one act that best sums up the character Destoroyah as a whole.\" \"Complex\" listed the character as #3 on its \"The 15 Most Badass Kaiju Monsters of All Time\" list, while WatchMojo.com listed Destoroyah as #3 on their \"Top 10 Godzilla Villains\" list. Conversely, Godzilla historian Steve Ryfle described Destoroyah as a \"laughable\" mix of the Predator and SpaceGodzilla which \"should be placed alongside Megalon and Gigan in the back rooms of the Toho monster gallery.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1705577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1705577", "title": "Draconian (Doctor Who)", "text": "Draconian (Doctor Who)\n\nThe Draconians are a fictional extraterrestrial race from the planet Draconia. They were featured in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". Their only television appearance to date was in the 1973 serial \"Frontier in Space\". Unlike many \"monster\" races in \"Doctor Who\", the Draconians were articulate and portrayed as having a sophisticated and advanced culture like feudal Japan. In later interviews, actor Jon Pertwee cited the Draconians as his favourite of all the monsters he had encountered during his time as the Third Doctor.\n\nIn \"Frontier in Space\" (1973), the sole television appearance of the Draconians, the time traveller the Master escalates war between the humans and the Draconians' galactic empires in the 26th century, by using a sonic hypnosis device to make the human crews see the Ogron mercenaries as Draconians and the Draconian crews see them as humans. The Master allies himself with the Daleks, who launch another bid for galactic conquest and hope to pick up the pieces after the war. The plot is revealed by the time traveller the Third Doctor, and instead of going to war against each other, the two empires unite against the Daleks.\n\nBackstory in the serial mentions that the Doctor had dealt with a space plague 500 years before the serial, causing him to be made a noble of Draconia by the 15th Emperor. 20 years before the serial, the human General Williams is mentioned as having triggered war between humans and Draconians after seeing an unarmed battlecruiser on a peace mission whose communications device wrecked by a neutron storm and was thus unable to respond to Williams. Williams had incorrectly assumed that the battlecruiser was hostile and about to fire on his own damaged ship.\n\nIn the \"Doctor Who\" episode \"The Satan Pit\" (2006), the Tenth Doctor says that Draconia, in common with other planets, has myths of a horned beast being the ultimate embodiment of evil.\n\nThe Draconians are mentioned in \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" serial \"Secrets of the Stars\" (2008). The Draconians are said to have their own celestial zodiac.\n\nRiver Song mentions the Draconians in the \"Doctor Who\" episode \"The Pandorica Opens\" (2010).\n\nIn \"The Time of the Doctor\" (2013), the town of Christmas' children surround the Eleventh Doctor showing him pictures of his countless \"victories\" on Trenzalore. The Doctor points out one image and responds, \"That's me arm-wrestling a Draconian. I remember that.\"\n\nIn addition to \"Frontier in Space\", the Draconians have appeared in spin-off media, including comics, novels and audio plays, in which they were players in the galactic politics surrounding the Earth Empire period of human history. The Draconians also featured in Reeltime Pictures' \"Mindgame\" video series, and are a major presence in the Bernice Summerfield audio adventures and books, including \"The Draconian Rage\". In 2007, a Draconian ambassador called Kothar became a regular character in the Bernice Summerfield range. He made his first appearance in \"The Judas Gift\". They meet the Sixth Doctor in the audio story \"Paper Cuts\".\n\nThe Virgin New Adventures novel \"Love and War\" by Paul Cornell mentions that the Draconians call the Doctor \"Karshtakavaar\", or \"The Oncoming Storm\".\n\n\"Draconian space\" is mentioned in the New Series Adventure \"The Price of Paradise\".\n\nIn IDW \"Doctor Who\" comic \"Fugitive\" the Tenth Doctor meets the Draconian diplomat Kraden, who is on his way to peace talks but was arrested on false charges. He, along with the Sontaran Stomm and Ogron Brarshak, helps the Doctor.\n\nIn \"Prisoner of the Daleks\", set during a Dalek War with humanity during the 26th century, it is mentioned that Space Major Jon Bowman is a veteran of the Draconian Wars.\n"}
{"id": "30389209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30389209", "title": "Extinction debt", "text": "Extinction debt\n\nIn ecology, extinction debt is the future extinction of species due to events in the past. The phrases dead clade walking and survival without recovery express the same idea.\n\nExtinction debt occurs because of time delays between impacts on a species, such as destruction of habitat, and the species' ultimate disappearance. For instance, long-lived trees may survive for many years even after reproduction of new trees has become impossible, and thus they may be committed to extinction. Technically, extinction debt generally refers to the \"number of species\" in an area likely to become extinct, rather than the prospects of any one species, but colloquially it refers to any occurrence of delayed extinction.\n\nExtinction debt may be local or global, but most examples are local as these are easier to observe and model. It is most likely to be found in long-lived species and species with very specific habitat requirements (specialists). Extinction debt has important implications for conservation, as it implies that species may become extinct due to past habitat destruction, even if continued impacts cease, and that current reserves may not be sufficient to maintain the species that occupy them. Interventions such as habitat restoration may reverse extinction debt.\n\n\"Immigration credit\" is the corollary to extinction debt. It refers to the number of species likely to immigrate to an area after an event such as the restoration of an ecosystem.\n\nThe term \"extinction debt\" was first used in 1994 in a paper by David Tilman, Robert May, Clarence Lehman and Martin Nowak, although Jared Diamond used the term \"relaxation time\" to describe a similar phenomenon in 1972.\n\nExtinction debt is also known by the terms \"dead clade walking\" and \"survival without recovery\" when referring to the species affected. The phrase \"dead clade walking\" was coined by David Jablonski as early as 2001 as a reference to \"Dead Man Walking\", a film whose title is based on American prison slang for a condemned prisoner's last walk to the execution chamber. \"Dead clade walking\" has since appeared in other scientists' writings about the aftermaths of mass extinctions.\n\nIn discussions of threats to biodiversity, extinction debt is analogous to the \"climate commitment\" in climate change, which states that inertia will cause the earth to continue to warm for centuries even if no more greenhouse gasses are emitted. Similarly, the current extinction may continue long after human impacts on species halt.\n\nJablonski recognized at least four patterns in the fossil record following mass extinctions:\n\nExtinction debt is caused by many of the same drivers as extinction. The most well-known drivers of extinction debt are habitat fragmentation and habitat destruction. These cause extinction debt by reducing the ability of species to persist via immigration to new habitats. Under equilibrium conditions, species may become extinct in one habitat patch, yet continues to survive because it can disperse to other patches. However, as other patches have been destroyed or rendered inaccessible due to fragmentation, this \"insurance\" effect is reduced and the species may ultimately become extinct.\n\nPollution may also cause extinction debt by reducing a species' birth rate or increasing its death rate so that its population slowly declines. Extinction debts may be caused by invasive species or by climate change.\n\nExtinction debt may also occur due to the loss of mutualist species. In New Zealand, the local extinction of several species of pollinating birds in 1870 has caused a long-term reduction in the reproduction of the shrub species \"Rhabdothamnus solandri\", which requires these birds to produce seeds. However, as the plant is slow-growing and long-lived, its populations persist.\n\nJablonski found that the extinction rate of marine invertebrates was significantly higher in the stage (major subdivision of an epoch – typically 2–10 million years' duration) following a mass extinction than in the stages preceding the mass extinction. His analysis focused on marine molluscs since they constitute the most abundant group of fossils and are therefore the least likely to produce sampling errors. Jablonski suggested that two possible explanations deserved further study:\n\nThe time to \"payoff\" of extinction debt can be very long. Islands that lost habitat at the end of the last ice age 10,000 years ago still appear to be losing species as a result. It has been shown that some bryozoans, a type of microscopic marine organism, became extinct due to the volcanic rise of the Isthmus of Panama. This event cut off the flow of nutrients from the Pacific Ocean to the Caribbean 3–4.5 million years ago. While bryozoan populations dropped severely at this time, extinction of these species took another 1–2 million years.\n\nExtinction debts incurred due to human actions have shorter timescales. Local extinction of birds from rainforest fragmentation occurs over years or decades, while plants in fragmented grasslands show debts lasting 50–100 years. Tree species in fragmented temperate forests have debts lasting 200 years or more.\n\nTilman et al. demonstrated that extinction debt could occur using a mathematical ecosystem model of species metapopulations. Metapopulations are multiple populations of a species that live in separate habitat patches or islands but interact via immigration between the patches. In this model, species persist via a balance between random local extinctions in patches and colonization of new patches. Tilman \"et al.\" used this model to predict that species would persist long after they no longer had sufficient habitat to support them. When used to estimate extinction debts of tropical tree species, the model predicted debts lasting 50–400 years.\n\nOne of the assumptions underlying the original extinction debt model was a trade-off between species' competitive ability and colonization ability. That is, a species that competes well against other species, and is more likely to become dominant in an area, is less likely to colonize new habitats due to evolutionary trade-offs. One of the implications of this assumption is that better competitors, which may even be more common than other species, are more likely to become extinct than rarer, less competitive, better dispersing species. This has been one of the more controversial components of the model, as there is little evidence for this trade-off in many ecosystems, and in many empirical studies dominant competitors were least likely species to become extinct. A later modification of the model showed that these trade-off assumptions may be relaxed, but need to exist partially, in order for the theory to work.\n\nFurther theoretical work has shown that extinction debt can occur under many different circumstances, driven by different mechanisms and under different model assumptions. The original model predicted extinction debt as a result of habitat destruction in a system of small, isolated habitats such as islands. Later models showed that extinction debt could occur in systems where habitat destruction occurs in small areas within a large area of habitat, as in slash-and-burn agriculture in forests, and could also occur due to decreased growth of species from pollutants. Predicted patterns of extinction debt differ between models, though. For instance, habitat destruction resembling slash-and-burn agriculture is thought to affect rare species rather than poor colonizers. Models that incorporate stochasticity, or random fluctuation in populations, show extinction debt occurring over different time scales than classic models.\n\nMost recently, extinction debts have been estimated through the use models derived from neutral theory. Neutral theory has very different assumptions than the metapopulation models described above. It predicts that the abundance and distribution of species can be predicted entirely through random processes, without considering the traits of individual species. As extinction debt arises in models under such different assumptions, it is robust to different kinds of models. Models derived from neutral theory have successfully predicted extinction times for a number of bird species, but perform poorly at both very small and very large spatial scales.\n\nMathematical models have also shown that extinction debt will last longer if it occurs in response to large habitat impacts (as the system will move farther from equilibrium), and if species are long-lived. Also, species just below their extinction threshold, that is, just below the population level or habitat occupancy levels required sustain their population, will have long-term extinction debts. Finally, extinction debts are predicted to last longer in landscapes with a few large patches of habitat, rather than many small ones.\n\nExtinction debt is difficult to detect and measure. Processes that drive extinction debt are inherently slow and highly variable (noisy), and it is difficult to locate or count the very small populations of near-extinct species. Because of these issues, most measures of extinction debt have a great deal of uncertainty.\n\nDue to the logistical and ethical difficulties of inciting extinction debt, there are few studies of extinction debt in controlled experiments. However, experiments of insects living on moss habitats demonstrated that extinction debt occurs after habitat destruction. In these experiments, it took 6–12 months for species to die out following the destruction of habitat.\n\nExtinction debts that reach equilibrium in relatively short time scales (years to decades) can be observed via measuring the change in species numbers in the time following an impact on habitat. For instance, in the Amazon rainforest, researchers have measured the rate at which bird species disappear after forest is cut down. As even short-term extinction debts can take years to decades to reach equilibrium, though, such studies take many years and good data are rare.\n\nMost studies of extinction debt compare species numbers with habitat patterns from the past and habitat patterns in the present. If the present populations of species are more closely related to past habitat patterns than present, extinction debt is a likely explanation. The magnitude of extinction debt (i.e., number of species likely to become extinct) can not be estimated by this method.\n\nIf one has information on species populations from the past in addition to the present, the magnitude of extinction debt can be estimated. One can use the relationship between species and habitat from the past to predict the number of species expected in the present. The difference between this estimate and the actual number of species is the extinction debt.\n\nThis method requires the assumption that in the past species and their habitat were in equilibrium, which is often unknown. Also, a common relationship used to equate habitat and species number is the species-area curve, but as the species-area curve arises from very different mechanisms than those in metapopulation based models, extinction debts measured in this way may not conform with metapopulation models' predictions. The relationship between habitat and species number can also be represented by much more complex models that simulate the behavior of many species independently.\n\nIf data on past species numbers or habitat are not available, species debt can also be estimated by comparing two different habitats: one which is mostly intact, and another which has had areas cleared and is smaller and more fragmented. One can then measure the relationship of species with the condition of habitat in the intact habitat, and, assuming this represents equilibrium, use it to predict the number of species in the cleared habitat. If this prediction is lower than the actual number of species in the cleared habitat, then the difference represents extinction debt. This method requires many of the same assumptions as methods comparing the past and present.\n\nStudies of European grasslands show evidence of extinction debt through both comparisons with the past and between present-day systems with different levels of human impacts. The species diversity of grasslands in Sweden appears to be a remnant of more connected landscapes present 50 to 100 years ago. In alvar grasslands in Estonia that have lost area since the 1930s, 17–70% of species are estimated to be committed to extinction. However, studies of similar grasslands in Belgium, where similar impacts have occurred, show no evidence of extinction debt. This may be due to differences in the scale of measurement or the level of specialization of grass species.\n\nForests in Vlaams-Brabant, Belgium, show evidence of extinction debt remaining from deforestation that occurred between 1775 and 1900. Detailed modeling of species behavior, based on similar forests in England that did not experience deforestation, showed that long-lived and slow-growing species were more common than equilibrium models would predict, indicating that their presence was due to lingering extinction debt.\n\nIn Sweden, some species of lichens show an extinction debt in fragments of ancient forest. However, species of lichens that are habitat generalists, rather than specialists, do not.\n\nExtinction debt has been found among species of butterflies living in the grasslands on Saaremaa and Muhu – islands off the western coast of Estonia. Butterfly species distributions on these islands are better explained by the habitat in the past than current habitats.\n\nOn the islands of the Azores Archipelago, more than 95% of native forests have been destroyed in the past 600 years. As a result, more than half of arthropods on these islands are believed to be committed to extinction, with many islands likely to lose more than 90% of species.\n\n80–90% of extinction from past deforestation in the Amazon has yet to occur, based on modeling based on species-area relationships. Local extinctions of approximately 6 species are expected in each 2500 km region by 2050 due to past deforestation. Birds in the Amazon rain forest continued to become extinct locally for 12 years following logging that broke up contiguous forest into smaller fragments. The extinction rate slowed, however, as forest regrew in the spaces in between habitat fragments.\n\nCountries in Africa are estimated to have, on average, a local extinction debt of 30% for forest-dwelling primates. That is, they are expected to have 30% of their forest primate species to become extinct in the future due to loss of forest habitat. The time scale for these extinctions has not been estimated.\n\nBased on historical species-area relationships, Hungary currently has approximately nine more species of raptors than are thought to be able to be supported by current nature reserves.\n\nThe existence of extinction debt in many different ecosystems has important implications for conservation. It implies that in the absence of further habitat destruction or other environmental impacts, many species are still likely to become extinct. Protection of existing habitats may not be sufficient to protect species from extinction. However, the long time scales of extinction debt may allow for habitat restoration in order to prevent extinction, as occurred in the slowing of extinction in Amazon forest birds above. In another example, it has been found that grizzly bears in very small reserves in the Rocky Mountains are likely to become extinct, but this finding allows the modification of reserve networks to better support their populations.\n\nThe extinction debt concept may require revision of the value of land for species conservation, as the number of species currently present in a habitat may not be a good measure of the habitat's ability to support species (see carrying capacity) in the future. As extinction debt may last longest near extinction thresholds, it may be hardest to detect the threat of extinction for species that conservation could benefit the most.\n\nEconomic analyses have shown that including extinction in management decision-making process changes decision outcomes, as the decision to destroy habitat changes conservation value in the future as well as the present. It is estimated that in Costa Rica, ongoing extinction debt may cost between $88 million and $467 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "22142854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22142854", "title": "Fitness approximation", "text": "Fitness approximation\n\nIn function optimization, fitness approximation is a method for decreasing the number of fitness function evaluations to reach a target solution. It belongs to the general class of evolutionary computation or artificial evolution methodologies.\n\nIn many real-world optimization problems including engineering problems, the number of fitness function evaluations needed to obtain a good solution dominates the optimization cost. In order to obtain efficient optimization algorithms, it is crucial to use prior information gained during the optimization process. Conceptually, a natural approach to utilizing the known prior information is building a model of the fitness function to assist in the selection of candidate solutions for evaluation. A variety of techniques for constructing such a model, often also referred to as surrogates, metamodels or approximation models – for computationally expensive optimization problems have been considered.\n\nCommon approaches to constructing approximate models based on learning and interpolation from known fitness values of a small population include:\nDue to the limited number of training samples and high dimensionality encountered in engineering design optimization, constructing a globally valid approximate model remains difficult. As a result, evolutionary algorithms using such approximate fitness functions may converge to local optima. Therefore, it can be beneficial to selectively use the original fitness function together with the approximate model.\n\nAdaptive fuzzy fitness granulation (AFFG) is a proposed solution to constructing an approximate model of the fitness function in place of traditional computationally expensive large-scale problem analysis like (L-SPA) in the Finite element method or iterative fitting of a Bayesian network structure.\n\nIn adaptive fuzzy fitness granulation, an adaptive pool of solutions, represented by fuzzy granules, with an exactly computed fitness function result is maintained. If a new individual is sufficiently similar to an existing known fuzzy granule, then that granule’s fitness is used instead as an estimate. Otherwise, that individual is added to the pool as a new fuzzy granule. The pool size as well as each granule’s radius of influence is adaptive and will grow/shrink depending on the utility of each granule and the overall population fitness. To encourage fewer function evaluations, each granule’s radius of influence is initially large and is gradually shrunk in latter stages of evolution. This encourages more exact fitness evaluations when competition is fierce among more similar and converging solutions. Furthermore, to prevent the pool from growing too large, granules that are not used are gradually eliminated.\n\nActually AFFG mirrors two features of human cognition: (a) granularity (b) similarity analysis. This granulation-based fitness approximation scheme is applied to solve various engineering optimization problems including detecting hidden information from a watermarked signal in addition to several structural optimization problems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54397689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54397689", "title": "Flowers in a Wan-Li Vase", "text": "Flowers in a Wan-Li Vase\n\nFlowers in a Wan-Li Vase is a circa 1620s floral painting by Balthasar van der Ast in the collection of the Suermondt-Ludwig-Museum.\n\nBalthasar van der Ast was a respected flower painter from Middelburg, active in Utrecht, and considered a member of the \"Bosschaert dynasty\" and one of the great flower painters of his time. Little is known about Van der Ast's workshop and whether or not he worked on commission. Even less is known of the early provenance of his paintings. Besides what can be learned from his surviving paintings, archival evidence indicates he was active in Utrecht at the same time as Roelant Savery.\n\nThe painting shows flowers of various seasons accompanied by various \"fauna\" in an arranged bouquet on a stone slab, often in an unusual vase, and in this case, a Chinese export porcelain vessel called a \"Wan-Li vase\". This motief was not his invention and was already quite common among his colleagues, and would remain popular for over a century, with Jan van Huysum and Rachel Ruysch still enjoying high prices for their flower bouquets crawling with bugs and reptiles such as this one.\n\nThe flaming red and gold tulip at the top is a variety quite common in Dutch gardens today, but is actually suffering from the tulip breaking virus that gives it that \"flaming\" striped effect. This painting is symbolic of the popular appreciation of tulips that would reach amazing heights in the so-called Tulip Mania that was yet to come.\n\nBesides the tulip, the work shows the following flower species: Rosa gallica, Anemone hepatica, Aquilegia, Tagetes, Cyclamen, lacerta agilis, Cynthia cardui, a fly, a dragonfly, and a grasshopper (on the vase).\n\nThis painting was stored for safe-keeping during WWII in the Albrechtsburg in Meissen, from whence it was found and taken by marauding Ukrainian troops in 1945. Somehow it ended up in the possession of the German Alice Siano who later emigrated to Canada in 1951 (when she married, she became Alice Tittel) with twelve paintings, presumably eight of which were from the Meissen storage depot, and this one appeared on the art market in 1954, where it was purchased by the Dutch art collector Sidney J. van den Bergh who sold it to a New York collector in 1972. In 1991 it was part of a visiting exhibition \"Great Dutch Masters from America\" which referred to it as being very similar to the lost Suermondt Museum piece. It has now been purchased back and returned to the museum after 70 years. The museum had earlier recovered \"Flowers in a Glass Vase\" by Nicolaes Verendael, which had also been sold by Alice Tittel to a New York collector. About 200 paintings from the museum's collection were stolen in 1945. It is unknown how many are still missing.\n\n"}
{"id": "43984669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43984669", "title": "Frank Benning", "text": "Frank Benning\n\nHerbert Francis 'Frank' Benning OBE (1907-8 February 1990) was an Australian rugby league player and Administrator.\n\nFrank Benning was a forward that played with the University for five seasons between 1926-1930. After excelling at Rugby League he became interested in administration, and he became the club secretary of the University club in 1930, a position that he retained until the club folded in 1937. He was awarded an OBE in 1969 for services to the community.\n\nFrank Benning died on 8 February 1990, aged 82.\n"}
{"id": "14603065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14603065", "title": "Fritz Febel", "text": "Fritz Febel\n\nFriedrich \"Fritz\" Febel (c. 1910 – September 21, 1969) was a German-American football player and coach. He served as the head football coach at the University of Buffalo from 1952 to 1954, compiling a record of 4–19–1. Febel was an assistant football coach at Buffalo from 1936 to 1942. In 1946 he became an assistant professor of health, physical education, and recreations at the school.\n\nFebel was born into an ethnic German family in Crvenka, Yugoslavia (now Serbia) and immigrated to the United States when he was 12. He became an all-star player for Lindblom High School in Chicago and Purdue University. He died at Millard Fillmore Hospital in Buffalo, New York after suffering a heart attack.\n"}
{"id": "12336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12336", "title": "Gladiator", "text": "Gladiator\n\nA gladiator (, \"swordsman\", from , \"sword\") was an armed combatant who entertained audiences in the Roman Republic and Roman Empire in violent confrontations with other gladiators, wild animals, and condemned criminals. Some gladiators were volunteers who risked their lives and their legal and social standing by appearing in the arena. Most were despised as slaves, schooled under harsh conditions, socially marginalized, and segregated even in death.\n\nIrrespective of their origin, gladiators offered spectators an example of Rome's martial ethics and, in fighting or dying well, they could inspire admiration and popular acclaim. They were celebrated in high and low art, and their value as entertainers was commemorated in precious and commonplace objects throughout the Roman world.\n\nThe origin of gladiatorial combat is open to debate. There is evidence of it in funeral rites during the Punic Wars of the 3rd century BC, and thereafter it rapidly became an essential feature of politics and social life in the Roman world. Its popularity led to its use in ever more lavish and costly games.\n\nThe gladiator games lasted for nearly a thousand years, reaching their peak between the 1st century BC and the 2nd century AD. The games finally declined during the early 5th century after the adoption of Christianity as state church of the Roman Empire in 380, although beast hunts (\"venationes\") continued into the 6th century.\n\nEarly literary sources seldom agree on the origins of gladiators and the gladiator games. In the late 1st century BC, Nicolaus of Damascus believed they were Etruscan. A generation later, Livy wrote that they were first held in 310 BC by the Campanians in celebration of their victory over the Samnites. Long after the games had ceased, the 7th century AD writer Isidore of Seville derived Latin \"lanista\" (manager of gladiators) from the Etruscan word for \"executioner,\" and the title of Charon (an official who accompanied the dead from the Roman gladiatorial arena) from Charun, psychopomp of the Etruscan underworld. This was accepted and repeated in most early modern, standard histories of the games.\n\nReappraisal of pictorial evidence supports a Campanian origin, or at least a borrowing, for the games and gladiators. Campania hosted the earliest known gladiator schools (\"ludi\"). Tomb frescoes from the Campanian city of Paestum (4th century BC) show paired fighters, with helmets, spears and shields, in a propitiatory funeral blood-rite that anticipates early Roman gladiator games. Compared to these images, supporting evidence from Etruscan tomb-paintings is tentative and late. The Paestum frescoes may represent the continuation of a much older tradition, acquired or inherited from Greek colonists of the 8th century BC.\n\nLivy places the first Roman gladiator games (264 BC) in the early stage of Rome's First Punic War against Carthage, when Decimus Iunius Brutus Scaeva had three gladiator pairs fight to the death in Rome's \"cattle market\" Forum (\"Forum Boarium\") to honor his dead father, Brutus Pera. This is described as a \"munus\" (plural: \"munera\"), a commemorative duty owed the manes of a dead ancestor by his descendants. The development of the \"munus\" and its gladiator types was most strongly influenced by Samnium's support for Hannibal and the subsequent punitive expeditions against the Samnites by Rome and her Campanian allies; the earliest and most frequently mentioned type was the Samnite.\nThe war in Samnium, immediately afterwards, was attended with equal danger and an equally glorious conclusion. The enemy, besides their other warlike preparation, had made their battle-line to glitter with new and splendid arms. There were two corps: the shields of the one were inlaid with gold, of the other with silver ... The Romans had already heard of these splendid accoutrements, but their generals had taught them that a soldier should be rough to look on, not adorned with gold and silver but putting his trust in iron and in courage ... The Dictator, as decreed by the senate, celebrated a triumph, in which by far the finest show was afforded by the captured armour. So the Romans made use of the splendid armour of their enemies to do honour to their gods; while the Campanians, in consequence of their pride and in hatred of the Samnites, equipped after this fashion the gladiators who furnished them entertainment at their feasts, and bestowed on them the name Samnites. (Livy 9.40)\nLivy's account skirts the funereal, sacrificial function of early Roman gladiator combats and reflects the later theatrical ethos of the Roman gladiator show: splendidly, exotically armed and armoured barbarians, treacherous and degenerate, are dominated by Roman iron and native courage. His plain Romans virtuously dedicate the magnificent spoils of war to the Gods. Their Campanian allies stage a dinner entertainment using gladiators who may not be Samnites, but play the Samnite role. Other groups and tribes would join the cast list as Roman territories expanded. Most gladiators were armed and armoured in the manner of the enemies of Rome. The \"munus\" became a morally instructive form of historic enactment in which the only honourable option for the gladiator was to fight well, or else die well.\n\nIn 216 BC, Marcus Aemilius Lepidus, late consul and augur, was honoured by his sons with three days of \"gladiatora munera\" in the Forum Romanum, using twenty-two pairs of gladiators. Ten years later, Scipio Africanus gave a commemorative \"munus\" in Iberia for his father and uncle, casualties in the Punic Wars. High status non-Romans, and possibly Romans too, volunteered as his gladiators. The context of the Punic Wars and Rome's near-disastrous defeat at the Battle of Cannae (216 BC) link these early games to munificence, the celebration of military victory and the religious expiation of military disaster; these \"munera\" appear to serve a morale-raising agenda in an era of military threat and expansion. The next recorded \"munus\", held for the funeral of Publius Licinius in 183 BC, was more extravagant. It involved three days of funeral games, 120 gladiators, and public distribution of meat (\"visceratio data\") – a practice that reflected the gladiatorial fights at Campanian banquets described by Livy and later deplored by Silius Italicus.\n\nThe enthusiastic adoption of \"gladiatoria munera\" by Rome's Iberian allies shows how easily, and how early, the culture of the gladiator \"munus\" permeated places far from Rome itself. By 174 BC, \"small\" Roman \"munera\" (private or public), provided by an \"editor\" of relatively low importance, may have been so commonplace and unremarkable they were not considered worth recording:\nMany gladiatorial games were given in that year, some unimportant, one noteworthy beyond the rest — that of Titus Flamininus which he gave to commemorate the death of his father, which lasted four days, and was accompanied by a public distribution of meats, a banquet, and scenic performances. The climax of the show which was big for the time was that in three days seventy four gladiators fought.\nIn 105 BC, the ruling consuls offered Rome its first taste of state-sponsored \"barbarian combat\" demonstrated by gladiators from Capua, as part of a training program for the military. It proved immensely popular. Thereafter, the gladiator contests formerly restricted to private \"munera\" were often included in the state games (\"ludi\") that accompanied the major religious festivals. Where traditional \"ludi\" had been dedicated to a deity, such as Jupiter, the \"munera\" could be dedicated to an aristocratic sponsor's divine or heroic ancestor.\n\nGladiator games offered their sponsors extravagantly expensive but effective opportunities for self-promotion, and gave their clients and potential voters exciting entertainment at little or no cost to themselves. Gladiators became big business for trainers and owners, for politicians on the make and those who had reached the top and wished to stay there. A politically ambitious \"privatus\" (private citizen) might postpone his deceased father's \"munus\" to the election season, when a generous show might drum up votes; those in power and those seeking it needed the support of the plebeians and their tribunes, whose votes might be won with the mere promise of an exceptionally good show. Sulla, during his term as praetor, showed his usual acumen in breaking his own sumptuary laws to give the most lavish \"munus\" yet seen in Rome, on occasion of his wife's funeral.\n\nIn the closing years of the politically and socially unstable Late Republic, any aristocratic owner of gladiators had political muscle at his disposal. In 65 BC, newly elected curule aedile Julius Caesar held games that he justified as \"munus\" to his father, who had been dead for 20 years. Despite an already enormous personal debt, he used 320 gladiator pairs in silvered armour. He had more available in Capua but the Senate, mindful of the recent Spartacus revolt and fearful of Caesar's burgeoning private armies and rising popularity, imposed a limit of 320 pairs as the maximum number of gladiators any citizen could keep in Rome. Caesar's showmanship was unprecedented in scale and expense; he had staged a \"munus\" as memorial rather than funeral rite, eroding any practical or meaningful distinction between \"munus\" and \"ludi\".\n\nGladiatorial games, usually linked with beast shows, spread throughout the Republic and beyond. Anti-corruption laws of 65 and 63 BC attempted but failed to curb the political usefulness of the games to their sponsors. Following Caesar's assassination and the Roman Civil War, Augustus assumed Imperial authority over the games, including \"munera\", and formalised their provision as a civic and religious duty. His revision of sumptuary law capped private and public expenditure on \"munera\", claiming to save the Roman elite from the bankruptcies they would otherwise suffer, and restricted their performance to the festivals of Saturnalia and Quinquatria. Henceforth, the ceiling cost for a praetor's \"economical\" official \"munus\" employing a maximum 120 gladiators was to be 25,000 denarii; a \"generous\" Imperial \"ludi\" might cost no less than 180,000 denarii. Throughout the Empire, the greatest and most celebrated games would now be identified with the state-sponsored Imperial cult, which furthered public recognition, respect and approval for the Emperor's divine numen, his laws, and his agents. Between 108 and 109 AD, Trajan celebrated his Dacian victories using a reported 10,000 gladiators and 11,000 animals over 123 days. The cost of gladiators and \"munera\" continued to spiral out of control. Legislation of 177 AD by Marcus Aurelius did little to stop it, and was completely ignored by his son, Commodus.\n\nThe earliest \"munera\" took place at or near the tomb of the deceased and these were organised by their \"munerator\" (who made the offering). Later games were held by an \"editor\", either identical with the \"munerator\" or an official employed by him. As time passed, these titles and meanings may have merged. In the Republican era, private citizens could own and train gladiators, or lease them from a \"lanista\" (owner of a gladiator training school). From the Principate onwards, private citizens could hold munera and own gladiators only under Imperial permission, and the role of \"editor\" was increasingly tied to state officialdom. Legislation by Claudius required that quaestors, the lowest rank of Roman magistrate, personally subsidise two-thirds of the costs of games for their small-town communities – in effect, both an advertisement of their personal generosity and a part-purchase of their office. Bigger games were put on by senior magistrates, who could better afford them. The largest and most lavish of all were paid for by the emperor himself.\n\nThe earliest types of gladiator were named after Rome's enemies of that time: the Samnite, Thracian and Gaul. The Samnite, heavily armed, elegantly helmed and probably the most popular type, was renamed secutor and the Gaul renamed murmillo, once these former enemies had been conquered then absorbed into Rome's Empire. In the mid-republican \"munus\", each type seems to have fought against a similar or identical type. In the later Republic and early Empire, various \"fantasy\" types were introduced, and were set against dissimilar but complementary types. For example, the bareheaded, nimble retiarius (\"net-man\"), armoured only at the left arm and shoulder, pitted his net, trident and dagger against the more heavily armoured, helmeted Secutor. Most depictions of gladiators show the most common and popular types. Passing literary references to others has allowed their tentative reconstruction. Other novelties introduced around this time included gladiators who fought from chariots or carts, or from horseback.\n\nThe trade in gladiators was empire-wide, and subjected to official supervision. Rome's military success produced a supply of soldier-prisoners who were redistributed for use in State mines or amphitheatres and for sale on the open market. For example, in the aftermath of the Jewish Revolt, the gladiator schools received an influx of Jews – those rejected for training would have been sent straight to the arenas as \"noxii\" (lit. \"hurtful ones\"). The best – the most robust – were sent to Rome. In Rome's military ethos, enemy soldiers who had surrendered or allowed their own capture and enslavement had been granted an unmerited gift of life. Their training as gladiators would give them opportunity to redeem their honour in the \"munus\".\n\nTwo other sources of gladiators, found increasingly during the Principate and the relatively low military activity of the Pax Romana, were slaves condemned to the arena (\"damnati\"), to gladiator schools or games (\"ad ludum gladiatorium\") as punishment for crimes, and the paid volunteers (\"auctorati\") who by the late Republic may have comprised approximately half – and possibly the most capable half – of all gladiators. The use of volunteers had a precedent in the Iberian \"munus\" of Scipio Africanus; but none of those had been paid.\n\nFor the poor, and for non-citizens, enrollment in a gladiator school offered a trade, regular food, housing of sorts and a fighting chance of fame and fortune. Mark Antony chose a troupe of gladiators to be his personal bodyguard. Gladiators customarily kept their prize money and any gifts they received, and these could be substantial. Tiberius offered several retired gladiators 100,000 \"sesterces\" each to return to the arena. Nero gave the gladiator Spiculus property and residence \"equal to those of men who had celebrated triumphs.\"\n\nFrom the 60s AD female gladiators appear as rare and \"exotic markers of exceptionally lavish spectacle\". In 66 AD, Nero had Ethiopian women, men and children fight at a \"munus\" to impress the King Tiridates I of Armenia. Romans seem to have found the idea of a female gladiator novel and entertaining, or downright absurd; Juvenal titillates his readers with a woman named \"Mevia\", hunting boars in the arena \"with spear in hand and breasts exposed\", and Petronius mocks the pretensions of a rich, low-class citizen, whose \"munus\" includes a woman fighting from a cart or chariot. A \"munus\" of 89 AD, during Domitian's reign, featured a battle between female gladiators, described as \"Amazons\". In Halicarnassus, a 2nd-century AD relief depicts two female combatants named \"Amazon\" and \"Achillia\"; their match ended in a draw. In the same century, an epigraph praises one of Ostia's local elite as the first to \"arm women\" in the history of its games. Female gladiators probably submitted to the same regulations and training as their male counterparts. Roman morality required that all gladiators be of the lowest social classes, and emperors who failed to respect this distinction earned the scorn of posterity. Cassius Dio takes pains to point out that when the much admired emperor Titus used female gladiators, they were of acceptably low class.\n\nSome regarded female gladiators of any type or class as a symptom of corrupted Roman appetites, morals and womanhood. Before he became emperor, Septimius Severus may have attended the Antiochene Olympic Games, which had been revived by the emperor Commodus and included traditional Greek female athletics. His attempt to give Rome a similarly dignified display of female athletics was met by the crowd with ribald chants and cat-calls. Probably as a result, he banned the use of female gladiators in 200 AD.\n\nCaligula, Titus, Hadrian, Lucius Verus, Caracalla, Geta and Didius Julianus were all said to have performed in the arena, either in public or private, but risks to themselves were minimal. Claudius, characterised by his historians as morbidly cruel and boorish, fought a whale trapped in the harbor in front of a group of spectators. Commentators invariably disapproved of such performances.\n\nCommodus was a fanatical participant at the \"ludi\", and compelled Rome's elite to attend his performances as gladiator, \"bestiarius\" or \"venator\". Most of his performances as a gladiator were bloodless affairs, fought with wooden swords; he invariably won. He was said to have restyled Nero's colossal statue in his own image as \"Hercules Reborn\", dedicated to himself as \"Champion of \"secutores\"; only left-handed fighter to conquer twelve times one thousand men.\" He was said to have killed 100 lions in one day, almost certainly from an elevated platform surrounding the arena perimeter, which allowed him to safely demonstrate his marksmanship. On another occasion, he decapitated a running ostrich with a specially designed dart, carried the bloodied head and his sword over to the Senatorial seats and gesticulated as though they were next. As reward for these services, he drew a gigantic stipend from the public purse.\n\nGladiator games were advertised well beforehand, on billboards that gave the reason for the game, its editor, venue, date and the number of paired gladiators (\"ordinarii\") to be used. Other highlighted features could include details of \"venationes\", executions, music and any luxuries to be provided for the spectators, such as an awning against the sun, water sprinklers, food, drink, sweets and occasionally \"door prizes\". For enthusiasts and gamblers, a more detailed program (\"libellus\") was distributed on the day of the \"munus\", showing the names, types and match records of gladiator pairs, and their order of appearance. Left-handed gladiators were advertised as a rarity; they were trained to fight right-handers, which gave them an advantage over most opponents and produced an interestingly unorthodox combination.\n\nThe night before the \"munus\", the gladiators were given a banquet and opportunity to order their personal and private affairs; Futrell notes its similarity to a ritualistic or sacramental \"last meal\". These were probably both family and public events which included even the \"noxii\", sentenced to die in the arena the following day; and the \"damnati\", who would have at least a slender chance of survival. The event may also have been used to drum up more publicity for the imminent game.\n\nOfficial \"munera\" of the early Imperial era seem to have followed a standard form (\"munus legitimum\"). A procession (\"pompa\") entered the arena, led by lictors who bore the fasces that signified the magistrate-\"editor\"'s power over life and death. They were followed by a small band of trumpeters (\"tubicines\") playing a fanfare. Images of the gods were carried in to \"witness\" the proceedings, followed by a scribe to record the outcome, and a man carrying the palm branch used to honour victors. The magistrate \"editor\" entered among a retinue who carried the arms and armour to be used; the gladiators presumably came in last.\nThe entertainments often began with \"venationes\" (beast hunts) and \"bestiarii\" (beast fighters). Next came the \"ludi meridiani\", which were of variable content but usually involved executions of \"noxii\", some of whom were condemned to be subjects of fatal re-enactments, based on Greek or Roman myths. Gladiators may have been involved in these as executioners, though most of the crowd, and the gladiators themselves, preferred the \"dignity\" of an even contest. There were also comedy fights; some may have been lethal. A crude Pompeian graffito suggests a burlesque of musicians, dressed as animals named \"Ursus tibicen\" (flute-playing bear) and \"Pullus cornicen\" (horn-blowing chicken), perhaps as accompaniment to clowning by \"paegniarii\" during a \"mock\" contest of the \"ludi meridiani\".\n\nThe gladiators may have held informal warm-up matches, using blunted or dummy weapons – some \"munera\", however, may have used blunted weapons throughout. The \"editor,\" his representative or an honoured guest would check the weapons (\"probatio armorum\") for the scheduled matches. These were the highlight of the day, and were as inventive, varied and novel as the \"editor\" could afford. Armatures could be very costly – some were flamboyantly decorated with exotic feathers, jewels and precious metals. Increasingly the \"munus\" was the \"editor\"'s gift to spectators who had come to expect the best as their due.\n\nLightly armed and armoured fighters, such as the retiarius, would tire less rapidly than their heavily armed opponents; most bouts would have lasted 10 to 15 minutes, or 20 minutes at most. In late Republican \"munera\", between 10 and 13 matches could have been fought on one day; this assumes one match at a time in the course of an afternoon.\n\nSpectators preferred to watch highly skilled, well matched \"ordinarii\" with complementary fighting styles; these were the most costly to train and to hire. A general \"melee\" of several, lower-skilled gladiators was far less costly, but also less popular. Even among the \"ordinarii\", match winners might have to fight a new, well-rested opponent, either a \"tertiarius\" (\"third choice gladiator\") by prearrangement; or a \"substitute\" gladiator (\"suppositicius\") who fought at the whim of the \"editor\" as an unadvertised, unexpected \"extra\". This yielded two combats for the cost of three gladiators, rather than four; such contests were prolonged, and in some cases, more bloody. Most were probably of poor quality, but the emperor Caracalla chose to test a notably skilled and successful fighter named Bato against first one \"supposicitius\", whom he beat, and then another, who killed him. At the opposite level of the profession, a gladiator reluctant to confront his opponent might be whipped, or goaded with hot irons, until he engaged through sheer desperation.\nCombats between experienced, well trained gladiators demonstrated a considerable degree of stagecraft. Among the cognoscenti, bravado and skill in combat were esteemed over mere hacking and bloodshed; some gladiators made their careers and reputation from bloodless victories. Suetonius describes an exceptional \"munus\" by Nero, in which no-one was killed, \"not even \"noxii\" (enemies of the state).\"\n\nTrained gladiators were expected to observe professional rules of combat. Most matches employed a senior referee (\"summa rudis\") and an assistant, shown in mosaics with long staffs (\"rudes\") to caution or separate opponents at some crucial point in the match. Referees were usually retired gladiators whose decisions, judgement and discretion were, for the most part, respected; they could stop bouts entirely, or pause them to allow the combatants rest, refreshment and a rub-down.\n\nLudi and \"munera\" were accompanied by music, played as interludes, or building to a \"frenzied crescendo\" during combats, perhaps to heighten the suspense during a gladiator's appeal; blows may have been accompanied by trumpet-blasts. The Zliten mosaic in Libya (circa 80–100 AD) shows musicians playing an accompaniment to provincial games (with gladiators, \"bestiarii\", or \"venatores\" and prisoners attacked by beasts). Their instruments are a long straight trumpet (\"tubicen\"), a large curved horn (\"Cornu\") and a water organ (\"hydraulis\"). Similar representations (musicians, gladiators and \"bestiari\") are found on a tomb relief in Pompeii.\n\nA match was won by the gladiator who overcame his opponent, or killed him outright. Victors received the palm branch and an award from the \"editor\". An outstanding fighter might receive a laurel crown and money from an appreciative crowd but for anyone originally condemned \"ad ludum\" the greatest reward was manumission (emancipation), symbolised by the gift of a wooden training sword or staff (\"rudis\") from the \"editor\". Martial describes a match between Priscus and Verus, who fought so evenly and bravely for so long that when both acknowledged defeat at the same instant, Titus awarded victory and a \"rudis\" to each. Flamma was awarded the \"rudis\" four times, but chose to remain a gladiator. His gravestone in Sicily includes his record: \"Flamma, \"secutor\", lived 30 years, fought 34 times, won 21 times, fought to a draw 9 times, defeated 4 times, a Syrian by nationality. Delicatus made this for his deserving comrade-in-arms.\"\n\nA gladiator could acknowledge defeat by raising a finger (\"ad digitum\"), in appeal to the referee to stop the combat and refer to the \"editor\", whose decision would usually rest on the crowd's response. In the earliest \"munera\", death was considered a righteous penalty for defeat; later, those who fought well might be granted remission at the whim of the crowd or the \"editor\". During the Imperial era, matches advertised as \"sine missione\" (without remission from the sentence of death) suggest that \"missio\" (the sparing of a defeated gladiator's life) had become common practice. The contract between \"editor\" and his \"lanista\" could include compensation for unexpected deaths; this could be \"some fifty times higher than the lease price\" of the gladiator.\n\nUnder Augustus' rule, the demand for gladiators began to exceed supply, and matches \"sine missione\" were officially banned; an economical, pragmatic development that happened to match popular notions of \"natural justice\". When Caligula and Claudius refused to spare defeated but popular fighters, their own popularity suffered. In general, gladiators who fought well were likely to survive. At a Pompeian match between chariot-fighters, Publius Ostorius, with previous 51 wins to his credit, was granted missio after losing to Scylax, with 26 victories. By common custom, the spectators decided whether or not a losing gladiator should be spared, and chose the winner in the rare event of a standing tie. Even more rarely, perhaps uniquely, one stalemate ended in the killing of one gladiator by the \"editor\" himself. In any event, the final decision of death or life belonged to the \"editor\", who signalled his choice with a gesture described by Roman sources as \"pollice verso\" meaning \"with a turned thumb\"; a description too imprecise for reconstruction of the gesture or its symbolism. Whether victorious or defeated, a gladiator was bound by oath to accept or implement his editor's decision, \"the victor being nothing but the instrument of his [editor's] will.\" Not all \"editors\" chose to go with the crowd, and not all those condemned to death for putting on a poor show chose to submit:\n\nOnce a band of five \"retiarii\" in tunics, matched against the same number of \"secutores\", yielded without a struggle; but when their death was ordered, one of them caught up his trident and slew all the victors. Caligula bewailed this in a public proclamation as a most cruel murder.\nA gladiator who was refused \"missio\" was despatched by his opponent. To die well, a gladiator should never ask for mercy, nor cry out. A \"good death\" redeemed the gladiator from the dishonourable weakness and passivity of defeat, and provided a noble example to those who watched:\nFor death, when it stands near us, gives even to inexperienced men the courage not to seek to avoid the inevitable. So the gladiator, no matter how faint-hearted he has been throughout the fight, offers his throat to his opponent and directs the wavering blade to the vital spot. (Seneca. \"Epistles\", 30.8)\n\nSome mosaics show defeated gladiators kneeling in preparation for the moment of death. Seneca's \"vital spot\" seems to have meant the neck. Gladiator remains from Ephesus confirm this.\nThe body of a gladiator who had died well was placed on a couch of Libitina and removed with dignity to the arena morgue, where the corpse was stripped of armour, and probably had its throat cut to prove that dead was dead. The Christian author Tertullian, commenting on \"ludi meridiani\" in Roman Carthage during the peak era of the games, describes a more humiliating method of removal. One arena official, dressed as the \"brother of Jove\", Dis Pater (god of the underworld) strikes the corpse with a mallet. Another, dressed as Mercury, tests for life-signs with a heated \"wand\"; once confirmed as dead, the body is dragged from the arena.\n\nWhether these victims were gladiators or \"noxii\" is unknown. Modern pathological examination confirms the probably fatal use of a mallet on some, but not all the gladiator skulls found in a gladiators' cemetery. Kyle (1998) proposes that gladiators who disgraced themselves might have been subjected to the same indignities as \"noxii\", denied the relative mercies of a quick death and dragged from the arena as carrion. Whether the corpse of such a gladiator could be redeemed from further ignominy by friends or \"familia\" is not known.\n\nThe bodies of \"noxii\", and possibly some \"damnati\", were thrown into rivers or dumped unburied; Denial of funeral rites and memorial condemned the shade (\"manes\") of the deceased to restless wandering upon the earth as a dreadful \"larva\" or \"lemur\". Ordinary citizens, slaves and freedmen were usually buried beyond the town or city limits, to avoid the ritual and physical pollution of the living; professional gladiators had their own, separate cemeteries. The taint of \"infamia\" was perpetual.\n\nGladiators could subscribe to a union (\"collegia\"), which ensured their proper burial, and sometimes a pension or compensation for wives and children. Otherwise, the gladiator's \"familia\", which included his \"lanista\", comrades and blood-kin, might fund his funeral and memorial costs, and use the memorial to assert their moral reputation as responsible, respectful colleagues or family members. Some monuments record the gladiator's career in some detail, including the number of appearances, victories  —  sometimes represented by an engraved crown or wreath  —  defeats, career duration, and age at death. Some include the gladiator's type, in words or direct representation: for example, the memorial of a retiarius at Verona included an engraved trident and sword. A wealthy editor might commission artwork to celebrate a particularly successful or memorable show, and include named portraits of winners and losers in action; the Borghese Gladiator Mosaic is a notable example. According to Cassius Dio, the emperor Caracalla gave the gladiator Bato a magnificent memorial and State funeral; more typical are the simple gladiator tombs of the Eastern Roman Empire, whose brief inscriptions include the following:\n\n\"The familia set this up in memory of Saturnilos.\"\n\"For Nikepharos, son of Synetos, Lakedaimonian, and for Narcissus the secutor. Titus Flavius Satyrus set up this monument in his memory from his own money.\"\n\"For Hermes. Paitraeites with his cell-mates set this up in memory\".\nVery little evidence survives of the religious beliefs of gladiators as a class, or their expectations of an afterlife. Modern scholarship offers little support for the once-prevalent notion that gladiators, \"venatores\" and \"bestiarii\" were personally or professionally dedicated to the cult of the Graeco-Roman goddess Nemesis. Rather, she seems to have represented a kind of \"Imperial Fortuna\" who dispensed Imperial retribution on the one hand, and Imperially subsidised gifts on the other – including the \"munera\". One gladiator's tomb dedication clearly states that her decisions are not to be trusted. Many gladiator epitaphs claim Nemesis, fate, deception or treachery as the instrument of their death, never the superior skills of the flesh-and-blood adversary who defeated and killed them. Having no personal responsibility for his own defeat and death, the losing gladiator remains the better man, worth avenging.\n\n\"I, Victor, left-handed, lie here, but my homeland was in Thessalonica. Doom killed me, not the liar Pinnas. No longer let him boast. I had a fellow gladiator, Polyneikes, who killed Pinnas and avenged me. Claudius Thallus set up this memorial from what I left behind as a legacy.\"\nA gladiator might expect to fight in two or three munera annually, and an unknown number would have died in their first match. Few gladiators survived more than 10 contests, though one survived an extraordinary 150 bouts; and another died at 90 years of age, presumably long after retirement. A natural death following retirement is also likely for three individuals who died at 38, 45, and 48 years respectively. George Ville, using evidence from 1st century gladiator headstones, calculated an average age at death of 27, and mortality \"among all who entered the arena\" at 19/100. Marcus Junkelmann disputes Ville's calculation for average age at death; the majority would have received no headstone, and would have died early in their careers, at 18–25 years of age. Between the early and later Imperial periods the risk of death for defeated gladiators rose from 1/5 to 1/4, perhaps because \"missio\" was granted less often. Hopkins and Beard tentatively estimate a total of 400 arenas throughout the Roman Empire at its greatest extent, with a combined total of 8,000 deaths per annum from executions, combats and accidents.\n\nThe earliest named gladiator school (singular: \"ludus\"; plural: \"ludi\") is that of Aurelius Scaurus at Capua. He was \"lanista\" of the gladiators employed by the state circa 105 BC to instruct the legions and simultaneously entertain the public. Few other \"lanistae\" are known by name: they headed their \"familia gladiatoria\", and had lawful power over life and death of every family member, including \"servi poenae\", \"auctorati\" and ancillaries. Socially, they were \"infames\", on a footing with pimps and butchers and despised as price gougers. No such stigma was attached to a gladiator owner (\"munerarius\" or \"editor\") of good family, high status and independent means; Cicero congratulated his friend Atticus on buying a splendid troop – if he rented them out, he might recover their entire cost after two performances.\n\nThe Spartacus revolt had originated in a gladiator school privately owned by Lentulus Batiatus, and had been suppressed only after a protracted series of costly, sometimes disastrous campaigns by regular Roman troops. In the late Republican era, a fear of similar uprisings, the usefulness of gladiator schools in creating private armies, and the exploitation of \"munera\" for political gain led to increased restrictions on gladiator school ownership, siting and organisation. By Domitian's time, many had been more or less absorbed by the State, including those at Pergamum, Alexandria, Praeneste and Capua. The city of Rome itself had four; the \"Ludus Magnus\" (the largest and most important, housing up to about 2,000 gladiators), \"Ludus Dacicus\", \"Ludus Gallicus\", and the \"Ludus Matutinus\", which trained \"bestiarii\".\n\nIn the Imperial era, volunteers required a magistrate's permission to join a school as \"auctorati\". If this was granted, the school's physician assessed their suitability. Their contract (\"auctoramentum\") stipulated how often they were to perform, their fighting style and earnings. A condemned bankrupt or debtor accepted as novice (\"novicius\") could negotiate with his \"lanista\" or \"editor\" for the partial or complete payment of his debt. Faced with runaway re-enlistment fees for skilled \"auctorati\", Marcus Aurelius set their upper limit at 12,000 \"sesterces\".\n\nAll prospective gladiators, whether volunteer or condemned, were bound to service by a sacred oath (\"sacramentum\"). Novices (\"novicii\") trained under teachers of particular fighting styles, probably retired gladiators. They could ascend through a hierarchy of grades (singular: \"palus\") in which \"primus palus\" was the highest. Lethal weapons were prohibited in the schools – weighted, blunt wooden versions were probably used. Fighting styles were probably learned through constant rehearsal as choreographed \"numbers\". An elegant, economical style was preferred. Training included preparation for a stoical, unflinching death. Successful training required intense commitment.\n\nThose condemned \"ad ludum\" were probably branded or marked with a tattoo (\"stigma\", plural \"stigmata\") on the face, legs and/or hands. These \"stigmata\" may have been text – slaves were sometimes thus marked on the forehead until Constantine banned the use of facial stigmata in 325 AD. Soldiers were routinely marked on the hand.\n\nGladiators were typically accommodated in cells, arranged in barrack formation around a central practice arena. Juvenal describes the segregation of gladiators according to type and status, suggestive of rigid hierarchies within the schools: \"even the lowest scum of the arena observe this rule; even in prison they're separate\". \"Retiarii\" were kept away from \"damnati\", and \"fag targeteers\" from \"armoured heavies\". As most \"ordinarii\" at games were from the same school, this kept potential opponents separate and safe from each other until the lawful \"munus\". Discipline could be extreme, even lethal. Remains of a Pompeian \"ludus\" site attest to developments in supply, demand and discipline; in its earliest phase, the building could accommodate 15–20 gladiators. Its replacement could have housed about 100 and included a very small cell, probably for lesser punishments and so low that standing was impossible.\n\nDespite the harsh discipline, gladiators represented a substantial investment for their \"lanista\" and were otherwise well fed and cared for. Their daily, high-energy, vegetarian diet consisted of barley, boiled beans, oatmeal, ash and dried fruit. Gladiators were sometimes called \"hordearii\" (\"eaters of barley)\". Romans considered barley inferior to wheat — a punishment for legionaries replaced their wheat ration with it — but it was thought to strengthen the body. Regular massage and high quality medical care helped mitigate an otherwise very severe training regimen. Part of Galen's medical training was at a gladiator school in Pergamum where he saw (and would later criticise) the training, diet, and long term health prospects of the gladiators.\n\n\"He vows to endure to be burned, to be bound, to be beaten, and to be killed by the sword.\" \"The gladiator's oath as cited by Petronius (Satyricon, 117).\"\nModern customs and institutions offer few useful parallels to the legal and social context of the \"gladiatoria munera\" In Roman law, anyone condemned to the arena or the gladiator schools (\"damnati ad ludum\") was a \"servus poenae\" (slave of the penalty), and was considered to be under sentence of death unless manumitted. A rescript of Hadrian reminded magistrates that \"those sentenced to the sword\" (execution) should be despatched immediately \"or at least within the year\", and those sentenced to the \"ludi\" should not be discharged before five years, or three years if granted manumission. Only slaves found guilty of specific offences could be sentenced to the arena; however, citizens found guilty of particular offenses could be stripped of citizenship, formally enslaved, then sentenced; and slaves, once freed, could be legally reverted to slavery for certain offences. Arena punishment could be given for banditry, theft and arson, and for treasons such as rebellion, census evasion to avoid paying due taxes and refusal to swear lawful oaths.\n\nOffenders seen as particularly obnoxious to the state (\"noxii\") received the most humiliating punishments. By the 1st century BC, \"noxii\" were being condemned to the beasts (\"damnati ad bestias\") in the arena, with almost no chance of survival, or were made to kill each other. From the early Imperial era, some were forced to participate in humiliating and novel forms of mythological or historical enactment, culminating in their execution. Those judged less harshly might be condemned \"ad ludum venatorium\" or \"ad gladiatorium\" – combat with animals or gladiators – and armed as thought appropriate. These \"damnati\" at least might put on a good show and retrieve some respect, and very rarely, survive to fight another day. Some may even have become \"proper\" gladiators.\n\nAmong the most admired and skilled \"auctorati\" were those who, having been granted manumission, volunteered to fight in the arena. Some of these highly trained and experienced specialists may have had no other practical choice open to them. Their legal status – slave or free – is uncertain. Under Roman law, a freed gladiator could not \"offer such services [as those of a gladiator] after manumission, because they cannot be performed without endangering [his] life.\" All contracted volunteers, including those of equestrian and senatorial class, were legally enslaved by their \"auctoratio\" because it involved their potentially lethal submission to a master. All \"arenarii\" (those who appeared in the arena) were \"\"infames\" by reputation\", a form of social dishonour which excluded them from most of the advantages and rights of citizenship. Payment for such appearances compounded their \"infamia\". The legal and social status of even the most popular and wealthy \"auctorati\" was thus marginal at best. They could not vote, plead in court nor leave a will; and unless they were manumitted, their lives and property belonged to their masters. Nevertheless, there is evidence of informal if not entirely lawful practices to the contrary. Some \"unfree\" gladiators bequeathed money and personal property to wives and children, possibly via a sympathetic owner or \"familia\"; some had their own slaves and gave them their freedom. One gladiator was even granted \"citizenship\" to several Greek cities of the Eastern Roman world.\n\nCaesar's \"munus\" of 46 BC included at least one equestrian, son of a Praetor, and two volunteers of possible senatorial rank. Augustus, who enjoyed watching the games, forbade the participation of senators, equestrians and their descendants as fighters or \"arenarii\", but in 11 AD he bent his own rules and allowed equestrians to volunteer because \"the prohibition was no use\". Under Tiberius, the Larinum decree (19AD) reiterated Augustus' original prohibitions. Thereafter, Caligula flouted them and Claudius strengthened them. Nero and Commodus ignored them. Even after the adoption of Christianity as Rome's official religion, legislation forbade the involvement of Rome's upper social classes in the games, though not the games themselves. Throughout Rome's history, some volunteers were prepared to risk loss of status or reputation by appearing in the arena, whether for payment, glory or, as in one recorded case, to revenge an affront to their personal honour. In one extraordinary episode, an aristocratic descendant of the Gracchi, already infamous for his marriage, as a bride, to a male horn player, appeared in what may have been a non-lethal or farcical match. His motives are unknown, but his voluntary and \"shameless\" arena appearance combined the \"womanly attire\" of a lowly \"retiarius tunicatus\", adorned with golden ribbons, with the apex headdress that marked him out as a priest of Mars. In Juvenal's account, he seems to have relished the scandalous self-display, applause and the disgrace he inflicted on his more sturdy opponent by repeatedly skipping away from the confrontation.\n\nAs \"munera\" grew larger and more popular, open spaces such as the Forum Romanum were adapted (as the Forum Boarium had been) as venues in Rome and elsewhere, with temporary, elevated seating for the patron and high status spectators; they were popular but not truly public events:\n\nA show of gladiators was to be exhibited before the people in the market-place, and most of the magistrates erected scaffolds round about, with an intention of letting them for advantage. Caius commanded them to take down their scaffolds, that the poor people might see the sport without paying anything. But nobody obeying these orders of his, he gathered together a body of labourers, who worked for him, and overthrew all the scaffolds the very night before the contest was to take place. So that by the next morning the market-place was cleared, and the common people had an opportunity of seeing the pastime. In this, the populace thought he had acted the part of a man; but he much disobliged the tribunes his colleagues, who regarded it as a piece of violent and presumptuous interference.\n\nTowards the end of the Republic, Cicero (\"Murena\", 72–3) still describes gladiator shows as ticketed — their political usefulness was served by inviting the rural tribunes of the plebs, not the people of Rome \"en masse\" – but in Imperial times, poor citizens in receipt of the corn dole were allocated at least some free seating, possibly by lottery. Others had to pay. Ticket scalpers (\"Locarii\") sometimes sold or let out seats at inflated prices. Martial wrote that \"Hermes [a gladiator who always drew the crowds] means riches for the ticket scalpers\".\n\nThe earliest known Roman amphitheatre was built at Pompeii by Sullan colonists, around 70 BC. The first in the city of Rome was the extraordinary wooden amphitheatre of Gaius Scribonius Curio (built in 53 BC). The first part-stone amphitheatre in Rome was inaugurated in 29–30 BC, in time for the triple triumph of Octavian (later Augustus). Shortly after it burned down in 64 AD, Vespasian began its replacement, later known as the Amphitheatrum Flavium (Colosseum), which seated 50,000 spectators and would remain the largest in the Empire. It was inaugurated by Titus in 80 AD as the personal gift of the Emperor to the people of Rome, paid for by the imperial share of booty after the Jewish Revolt.\n\nAmphitheatres were usually oval in plan. Their seating tiers surrounded the arena below, where the community's judgments were meted out, in full public view. From across the stands, crowd and \"editor\" could assess each other's character and temperament. For the crowd, amphitheatres afforded unique opportunities for free expression and free speech (\"theatralis licentia\"). Petitions could be submitted to the \"editor\" (as magistrate) in full view of the community. \"Factiones\" and claques could vent their spleen on each other, and occasionally on Emperors. The emperor Titus's dignified yet confident ease in his management of an amphitheatre crowd and its factions were taken as a measure of his enormous popularity and the rightness of his imperium. The amphitheatre \"munus\" thus served the Roman community as living theatre and a court in miniature, in which judgement could be served not only on those in the arena below, but on their judges. Amphitheatres also provided a means of social control. Their seating was \"disorderly and indiscriminate\" until Augustus prescribed its arrangement in his Social Reforms. To persuade the Senate, he expressed his distress on behalf of a Senator who could not find seating at a crowded games in Puteoli:\nIn consequence of this the senate decreed that, whenever any public show was given anywhere, the first row of seats should be reserved for senators; and at Rome he would not allow the envoys of the free and allied nations to sit in the orchestra, since he was informed that even freedmen were sometimes appointed. He separated the soldiery from the people. He assigned special seats to the married men of the commons, to boys under age their own section and the adjoining one to their preceptors; and he decreed that no one wearing a dark cloak should sit in the middle of the house. He would not allow women to view even the gladiators except from the upper seats, though it had been the custom for men and women to sit together at such shows. Only the Vestal virgins were assigned a place to themselves, opposite the praetor's tribunal.\nThese arrangements do not seem to have been strongly enforced.\n\nPopular factions supported favourite gladiators and gladiator types. Under Augustan legislation, the Samnite type was renamed \"Secutor\" (\"chaser\", or \"pursuer\"). The secutor was equipped with a long, heavy \"large\" shield called a \"scutum\"); \"Secutores\", their supporters and any heavyweight \"secutor\"-based types such as the Murmillo were \"secutarii\". Lighter types, such as the Thraex, were equipped with a smaller, lighter shield called a \"parma\", from which they and their supporters were named \"parmularii\" (\"small shields\"). Titus and Trajan preferred the \"parmularii\" and Domitian the \"secutarii\"; Marcus Aurelius took neither side. Nero seems to have enjoyed the brawls between rowdy, enthusiastic and sometimes violent factions, but called in the troops if they went too far.\n\nThere were also local rivalries. At Pompeii's amphitheatre, during Nero's reign, the trading of insults between Pompeians and Nucerian spectators during public \"ludi\" led to stone throwing and riot. Many were killed or wounded. Nero banned gladiator \"munera\" (though not the games) at Pompeii for ten years as punishment. The story is told in Pompeian graffiti and high quality wall painting, with much boasting of Pompeii's \"victory\" over Nuceria.\n\nA man who knows how to conquer in war is a man who knows how to arrange a banquet and put on a show.\nRome was essentially a landowning military aristocracy. From the early days of the Republic, ten years of military service were a citizen's duty and a prerequisite for election to public office. \"Devotio\" (willingness to sacrifice one’s life to the greater good) was central to the Roman military ideal, and was the core of the Roman military oath. It applied from highest to lowest alike in the chain of command. As a soldier committed his life (voluntarily, at least in theory) to the greater cause of Rome's victory, he was not expected to survive defeat.\n\nThe Punic Wars of the late 3rd century BC – in particular the near-catastrophic defeat of Roman arms at Cannae – had long-lasting effects on the Republic, its citizen armies, and the development of the gladiatorial \"munera\". In the aftermath of Cannae, Scipio Africanus crucified Roman deserters and had non-Roman deserters thrown to the beasts. The Senate refused to ransom Hannibal's Roman captives: instead, they consulted the Sibylline books, then made drastic preparations:\nIn obedience to the Books of Destiny, some strange and unusual sacrifices were made, human sacrifices amongst them. A Gaulish man and a Gaulish woman and a Greek man and a Greek woman were buried alive under the Forum Boarium ... They were lowered into a stone vault, which had on a previous occasion also been polluted by human victims, a practice most repulsive to Roman feelings. When the gods were believed to be duly propitiated ... Armour, weapons, and other things of the kind were ordered to be in readiness, and the ancient spoils gathered from the enemy were taken down from the temples and colonnades. The dearth of freemen necessitated a new kind of enlistment; 8,000 sturdy youths from amongst the slaves were armed at the public cost, after they had each been asked whether they were willing to serve or no. These soldiers were preferred, as there would be an opportunity of ransoming them when taken prisoners at a lower price.\nThe account notes, uncomfortably, the bloodless human sacrifices performed to help turn the tide of the war in Rome's favour. While the Senate mustered their willing slaves, Hannibal offered his dishonoured Roman captives a chance for honourable death, in what Livy describes as something very like the Roman \"munus\". The \"munus\" thus represented an essentially military, self-sacrificial ideal, taken to extreme fulfillment in the gladiator's oath. By the \"devotio\" of a voluntary oath, a slave might achieve the quality of a Roman (\"Romanitas\"), become the embodiment of true \"virtus\" (manliness, or manly virtue), and paradoxically, be granted \"missio\" while remaining a slave. The gladiator as a specialist fighter, and the ethos and organization of the gladiator schools, would inform the development of the Roman military as the most effective force of its time. In 107 BC, the Marian Reforms established the Roman army as a professional body. Two years later, following its defeat at Arausio:\n...weapons training was given to soldiers by P. Rutilius, consul with C. Mallis. For he, following the example of no previous general, with teachers summoned from the gladiatorial training school of C. Aurelus Scaurus, implanted in the legions a more sophisticated method of avoiding and dealing a blow and mixed bravery with skill and skill back again with virtue so that skill became stronger by bravery's passion and passion became more wary with the knowledge of this art.\nThe military were great aficionados of the games, and supervised the schools. Many schools and amphitheatres were sited at or near military barracks, and some provincial army units owned gladiator troupes. As the Republic wore on, the term of military service increased from ten to the sixteen years formalised by Augustus in the Principate. It would rise to twenty, and later, to twenty five years. Roman military discipline was ferocious; severe enough to provoke mutiny, despite the consequences. A career as a volunteer gladiator may have seemed an attractive option for some.\n\nIn AD 69, the Year of the Four Emperors, Otho's troops at Bedriacum included 2000 gladiators. Opposite him on the field, Vitellius's army was swollen by levies of slaves, plebs and gladiators. In 167 AD, troop depletions by plague and desertion may have prompted Marcus Aurelius to draft gladiators at his own expense. During the Civil Wars that led to the Principate, Octavian (later Augustus) acquired the personal gladiator troop of his erstwhile opponent, Mark Antony. They had served their late master with exemplary loyalty but thereafter, they disappear from the record.\n\nRoman writing as a whole demonstrates a deep ambivalence towards the \"gladiatoria munera\". Even the most complex and sophisticated \"munera\" of the Imperial era evoked the ancient, ancestral \"dii manes\" of the underworld and were framed by the protective, lawful rites of \"sacrificium\". Their popularity made their co-option by the state inevitable; Cicero acknowledged their sponsorship as a political imperative. Despite the popular adulation of gladiators, they were set apart, despised; and despite Cicero's contempt for the mob, he shared their admiration: \"Even when [gladiators] have been felled, let alone when they are standing and fighting, they never disgrace themselves. And suppose a gladiator has been brought to the ground, when do you ever see one twist his neck away after he has been ordered to extend it for the death blow?\" His own death would later emulate this example. Yet, Cicero could also refer to his popularist opponent Clodius, publicly and scathingly, as a \"bustuarius\" – literally, a \"funeral-man\", implying that Clodius has shown the moral temperament of the lowest sort of gladiator. \"Gladiator\" could be (and was) used as an insult throughout the Roman period, and \"Samnite\" doubled the insult, despite the popularity of the Samnite type. Silius Italicus wrote, as the games approached their peak, that the degenerate Campanians had devised the very worst of precedents, which now threatened the moral fabric of Rome: \"It was their custom to enliven their banquets with bloodshed and to combine with their feasting the horrid sight of armed men [(Samnites)] fighting; often the combatants fell dead above the very cups of the revelers, and the tables were stained with streams of blood. Thus demoralised was Capua.\" Death could be rightly meted out as punishment, or met with equanimity in peace or war, as a gift of fate; but when inflicted as entertainment, with no underlying moral or religious purpose, it could only pollute and demean those who witnessed it.\nThe \"munus\" itself could be interpreted as pious necessity, but its increasing luxury corroded Roman virtue, and created an un-Roman appetite for profligacy and self-indulgence. Caesar's 46 BC \"ludi\" were mere entertainment for political gain, a waste of lives and of money that would have been better doled out to his legionary veterans. Yet for Seneca, and for Marcus Aurelius – both professed Stoics – the degradation of gladiators in the \"munus\" highlighted their Stoic virtues: their unconditional obedience to their master and to fate, and equanimity in the face of death. Having \"neither hope nor illusions\", the gladiator could transcend his own debased nature, and disempower death itself by meeting it face to face. Courage, dignity, altruism and loyalty were morally redemptive; Lucian idealised this principle in his story of Sisinnes, who voluntarily fought as a gladiator, earned 10,000 drachmas and used it to buy freedom for his friend, Toxaris. Seneca had a lower opinion of the mob's un-Stoical appetite for \"ludi meridiani\": \"Man [is]...now slaughtered for jest and sport; and those whom it used to be unholy to train for the purpose of inflicting and enduring wounds are thrust forth exposed and defenceless.\"\n\nThese accounts seek a higher moral meaning from the \"munus\", but Ovid's very detailed (though satirical) instructions for seduction in the amphitheatre suggest that the spectacles could generate a potent and dangerously sexual atmosphere. Augustan seating prescriptions placed women – excepting the Vestals, who were legally inviolate – as far as possible from the action of the arena floor; or tried to. There remained the thrilling possibility of clandestine sexual transgression by high-caste spectators and their heroes of the arena. Such assignations were a source for gossip and satire but some became unforgivably public:\nWhat was the youthful charm that so fired Eppia? What hooked her? What did she see in him to make her put up with being called \"the gladiator's moll\"? Her poppet, her Sergius, was no chicken, with a dud arm that prompted hope of early retirement. Besides his face looked a proper mess, helmet-scarred, a great wart on his nose, an unpleasant discharge always trickling from one eye. But he was a gladiator. That word makes the whole breed seem handsome, and made her prefer him to her children and country, her sister, her husband. Steel is what they fall in love with.\nEppia – a senator's wife – and her Sergius eloped to Egypt, where he deserted her. Most gladiators would have aimed lower. Two wall \"graffiti\" in Pompeii describe Celadus the Thraex as \"the sigh of the girls\" and \"the glory of the girls\" – which may or may not have been Celadus' own wishful thinking.\n\nIn the later Imperial era, Servius Maurus Honoratus uses the same disparaging term as Cicero – \"bustuarius\" – for gladiators. Tertullian used it somewhat differently – all victims of the arena were sacrificial in his eyes – and expressed the paradox of the \"arenarii\" as a class, from a Christian viewpoint:\nOn the one and the same account they glorify them and they degrade and diminish them; yes, further, they openly condemn them to disgrace and civil degradation; they keep them religiously excluded from council chamber, rostrum, senate, knighthood, and every other kind of office and a good many distinctions. The perversity of it! They love whom they lower; they despise whom they approve; the art they glorify, the artist they disgrace.\nIn this new Play, I attempted to follow the old custom of mine, of making a fresh trial; I brought it on again. In the first Act I pleased; when in the meantime a rumor spread that gladiators were about to be exhibited; the populace flock together, make a tumult, clamor aloud, and fight for their places: meantime, I was unable to maintain my place.\n\nImages of gladiators could be found throughout the Republic and Empire, among all classes. Walls in the 2nd century BC \"Italian Agora\" at Delos were decorated with paintings of gladiators. Mosaics dating from the 2nd through 4th centuries AD have been invaluable in the reconstruction of combat and its rules, gladiator types and the development of the \"munus\". Throughout the Roman world, ceramics, lamps, gems and jewellery, mosaics, reliefs, wall paintings and statuary offer evidence, sometimes the best evidence, of the clothing, props, equipment, names, events, prevalence and rules of gladiatorial combat. Earlier periods provide only occasional, perhaps exceptional examples. The Gladiator Mosaic in the Galleria Borghese displays several gladiator types, and the Bignor Roman Villa mosaic from Provincial Britain shows Cupids as gladiators. Souvenir ceramics were produced depicting named gladiators in combat; similar images of higher quality, were available on more expensive articles in high quality ceramic, glass or silver.\n\nPliny the Elder gives vivid examples of the popularity of gladiator portraiture in Antium and an artistic treat laid on by an adoptive aristocrat for the solidly plebeian citizens of the Roman Aventine:\nWhen a freedman of Nero was giving a gladiatorial show at Antium, the public porticoes were covered with paintings, so we are told, containing life-like portraits of all the gladiators and assistants. This portraiture of gladiators has been the highest interest in art for many centuries now, but it was Gaius Terentius who began the practice of having pictures made of gladiatorial shows and exhibited in public; in honour of his grandfather who had adopted him he provided thirty pairs of Gladiators in the Forum for three consecutive days, and exhibited a picture of the matches in the Grove of Diana.\nThe decline of the \"munus\" was a far from straightforward process. The crisis of the 3rd century imposed increasing military demands on the imperial purse, from which the Roman Empire never quite recovered, and lesser magistrates found the obligatory \"munera\" an increasingly unrewarding tax on the doubtful privileges of office. Still, emperors continued to subsidize the games as a matter of undiminished public interest. In the early 3rd century AD, the Christian writer Tertullian had acknowledged their power over the Christian flock, and was compelled to be blunt: the combats were murder, their witnessing spiritually and morally harmful and the gladiator an instrument of pagan human sacrifice. In the next century, Augustine of Hippo deplored the youthful fascination of his friend (and later fellow-convert and Bishop) Alypius of Thagaste, with the \"munera\" spectacle as inimical to a Christian life and salvation. Amphitheatres continued to host the spectacular administration of Imperial justice: in 315 Constantine the Great condemned child-snatchers \"ad bestias\" in the arena. Ten years later, he banned the gladiator \"munera\":\n\nIn times in which peace and peace relating to domestic affairs prevail bloody demonstrations displease us. Therefore, we order that there may be no more gladiator combats. Those who were condemned to become gladiators for their crimes are to work from now on in the mines. Thus they pay for their crimes without having to pour their blood.\n\nAn imperially sanctioned \"munus\" at some time in the 330s suggests that yet again, imperial legislation failed to entirely curb the games, not least when Constantine defied his own law. In 365, Valentinian I (r. 364–375) threatened to fine a judge who sentenced Christians to the arena and in 384 attempted, like most of his predecessors, to limit the expenses of \"munera\".\n\nIn 393, Theodosius I (r. 379–395) adopted Nicene Christianity as the state religion of the Roman Empire and banned pagan festivals. The \"ludi\" continued, very gradually shorn of their stubbornly pagan \"munera\". Honorius (r. 395–423) legally ended \"munera\" in 399, and again in 404, at least in the Western Roman Empire. According to Theodoret, the ban was in consequence of Saint Telemachus' martyrdom by spectators at a \"munus.\" Valentinian III (r. 425–455) repeated the ban in 438, perhaps effectively, though \"venationes\" continued beyond 536. By this time, interest in \"munera\" had waned throughout the Roman world. In the Byzantine Empire, theatrical shows and chariot races continued to attract the crowds, and drew a generous Imperial subsidy.\nIt is not known how many \"gladiatoria munera\" were given throughout the Roman period. Many, if not most, involved \"venationes\", and in the later Empire some may have been only that. In 165 BC, at least one \"munus\" was held during April's Megalesia. In the early Imperial era, \"munera\" in Pompeii and neighbouring towns were dispersed from March through November. They included a provincial magnate's five-day \"munus\" of thirty pairs, plus beast-hunts. A single late primary source, the \"Calendar of Furius Dionysius Philocalus\" for 354, shows how seldom gladiators featured among a multitude of official festivals. Of 176 days reserved for spectacles of various kinds, 102 were for theatrical shows, 64 for chariot races and just 10 in December for gladiator games and \"venationes\". A century before this, the emperor Alexander Severus (r. 222–235) may have intended a more even redistribution of \"munera\" throughout the year; but this would have broken with what had become the traditional positioning of the major gladiator games, at the year's ending. As Wiedemann points out, December was also the month for the Saturnalia, Saturn's festival, in which death was linked to renewal, and the lowest were honoured as the highest.\n\nSome Roman reenactors attempt to recreate Roman gladiator troupes. Some of these groups are part of larger Roman reenactment groups, and others are wholly independent, though they might participate in larger demonstrations of Roman reenacting or historical reenacting in general. These groups usually focus on portraying mock gladiatorial combat in as accurate a manner as possible.\n\nGladiator fights have been depicted in a number of peplum films (also known as \"sword-and-sandal\" movies). This is a genre of largely Italian-made historical epics (costume dramas) that dominated the Italian film industry from 1958 to 1965. They can be immediately differentiated from the competing Hollywood product by their use of dubbing. The pepla attempted to emulate the big-budget Hollywood historical epics of the time, such as \"Spartacus\". Inspired by the success of \"Spartacus\", there were a number of Italian peplums that emphasized the gladiatorial arena fights in their plots, with it becoming almost a peplum subgenre in itself; One group of supermen known as \"The Ten Gladiators\" appeared in a trilogy, all three films starring Dan Vadis in the lead role.\n\n\n\"The Arena\" (also known as the \"Naked Warriors\") is a 1974 gladiator exploitation film, starring Margaret Markov and Pam Grier, and directed by Steve Carver and an uncredited Joe D'Amato. Grier and Markov portray female gladiators in ancient Rome, who have been enslaved and must fight for their freedom. \"Gladiator\" is a 2000 British-American epic historical drama film directed by Ridley Scott, and starring Russell Crowe and Joaquin Phoenix. Crowe portrays a fictional Roman general who is reduced to slavery and then rises through the ranks of the gladiatorial arena to avenge the murder of his family. \"Amazons and Gladiators\" is a 2001 drama action adventure film directed and written by Zachary Weintraub starring Patrick Bergin and Jennifer Rubin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17351839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17351839", "title": "Invertible knot", "text": "Invertible knot\n\nIn mathematics, especially in the area of topology known as knot theory, an invertible knot is a knot that can be continuously deformed to itself, but with its orientation reversed. A non-invertible knot is any knot which does not have this property. The invertibility of a knot is a knot invariant. An invertible link is the link equivalent of an invertible knot.\n\nThere are only five knot symmetry types, indicated by chirality and invertibility: fully chiral, reversible, positively amphichiral noninvertible, negatively amphichiral noninvertible, and fully amphichiral invertible.\n\nIt has long been known that most of the simple knots, such as the trefoil knot and the figure-eight knot are invertible. In 1962 Ralph Fox conjectured that some knots were non-invertible, but it was not proved that non-invertible knots exist until Hale Trotter discovered an infinite family of pretzel knots that were non-invertible in 1963. It is now known almost all knots are non-invertible.\n\nAll knots with crossing number of 7 or less are known to be invertible. No general method is known that can distinguish if a given knot is invertible. The problem can be translated into algebraic terms, but unfortunately there is no known algorithm to solve this algebraic problem.\n\nIf a knot is invertible and amphichiral, it is fully amphichiral. The simplest knot with this property is the figure eight knot. A chiral knot that is invertible is classified as a reversible knot.\n\nA more abstract way to define an invertible knot is to say there is an orientation-preserving homeomorphism of the 3-sphere which takes the knot to itself but reverses the orientation along the knot. By imposing the stronger condition that the homeomorphism also be an involution, i.e. have period 2 in the homeomorphism group of the 3-sphere, we arrive at the definition of a strongly invertible knot. All knots with tunnel number one, such as the trefoil knot and figure-eight knot, are strongly invertible.\n\nThe simplest example of a non-invertible knot is the knot 8 (Alexander-Briggs notation) or .2.2 (Conway notation). The pretzel knot 7, 5, 3 is non-invertible, as are all pretzel knots of the form (2\"p\" + 1), (2\"q\" + 1), (2\"r\" + 1), where \"p\", \"q\", and \"r\" are distinct integers, which is the infinite family proven to be non-invertible by Trotter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9087364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9087364", "title": "Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant", "text": "Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant\n\nThe Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL ), also known as the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS ), officially known as the Islamic State (IS) and by its Arabic language acronym Daesh ( \"dāʿish\", ), is a Salafi jihadist militant group and former unrecognised proto-state that follows a fundamentalist, Salafi doctrine of Sunni Islam. ISIL gained global prominence in early 2014 when it drove Iraqi government forces out of key cities in its Western Iraq offensive, followed by its capture of Mosul and the Sinjar massacre.\n\nThe group has been designated a terrorist organisation by the United Nations and many individual countries. ISIL is widely known for its videos of beheadings and other types of executions of both soldiers and civilians, including journalists and aid workers, and its destruction of cultural heritage sites. The United Nations holds ISIL responsible for human rights abuses and war crimes. ISIL also committed ethnic cleansing on a historic scale in northern Iraq.\n\nISIL originated as \"Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad\" in 1999, which pledged allegiance to al-Qaeda and participated in the Iraqi insurgency following the 2003 invasion of Iraq by Western forces at the behest of the United States. The group proclaimed itself a worldwide caliphate and began referring to itself as the Islamic State ( \"\") or IS in June 2014. As a caliphate, it claims religious, political and military authority over all Muslims worldwide. Its adoption of the name Islamic State and its idea of a caliphate have been widely criticised, with the United Nations, various governments and mainstream Muslim groups rejecting its statehood.\n\nIn Syria, the group conducted ground attacks on both government forces and opposition factions and by December 2015 it held a large area in western Iraq and eastern Syria, containing an estimated 2.8 to 8 million people, where it enforced its interpretation of sharia law. ISIL is believed to be operational in 18 countries across the world, including Afghanistan and Pakistan, with \"aspiring branches\" in Mali, Egypt, Somalia, Bangladesh, Indonesia and the Philippines. In 2015, ISIL was estimated to have an annual budget of more than US$1 billion and a force of more than 30,000 fighters.\n\nIn July 2017, the group lost control of its largest city, Mosul, to the Iraqi army. Following this major defeat, ISIL continued to lose territory to the various states and other military forces allied against it, until it controlled no meaningful territory by November 2017. U.S. military officials and simultaneous military analyses reported in December 2017 that the group retained a mere 2 percent of the territory they had previously held. On 10 December 2017, Iraq's Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said that Iraqi forces had driven the last remnants of Islamic State from the country, three years after the militant group captured about a third of Iraq's territory.\n\nIn April 2013, having expanded into Syria, the group adopted the name \"\" (). As \"al-Shām\" is a region often compared with the Levant or Greater Syria, the group's name has been variously translated as \"Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham\", \"Islamic State of Iraq and Syria\" (both abbreviated as ISIS), or \"Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant\" (abbreviated as ISIL).\n\nWhile the use of either one or the other acronym has been the subject of debate, the distinction between the two and its relevance has been considered not so great. Of greater relevance is the name Daesh, which is an acronym of ISIL's Arabic name \"al-Dawlah al-Islamīyah fī l-ʻIrāq wa-sh-Shām.\" \"Dāʿish\" (), or Daesh. This name has been widely used by ISIL's Arabic-speaking detractors, although – and to a certain extent because – it is considered derogatory, as it resembles the Arabic words \"Daes\" (\"one who crushes, or tramples down, something underfoot\") and \"Dāhis\" (loosely translated: \"one who sows discord\"). Within areas under its control, ISIL considers use of the name Daesh punishable by flogging or cutting out the tongue.\n\nIn late June 2014, the group renamed itself \"\" ( or \"IS\"), declaring itself a worldwide caliphate. The name \"Islamic State\" and the group's claim to be a caliphate have been widely rejected, with the UN, various governments, and mainstream Muslim groups refusing to use the new name. The group's declaration of a new caliphate in June 2014 and its adoption of the name \"Islamic State\" have been criticised and ridiculed by Muslim scholars and rival Islamists both inside and outside the territory it controls.\n\nIn a speech in September 2014, United States President Barack Obama said that ISIL was neither \"Islamic\" (on the basis that no religion condones the killing of innocents) nor was it a \"state\" (in that no government recognises the group as a state), while many object to using the name \"Islamic State\" owing to the far-reaching religious and political claims to authority which that name implies. The United Nations Security Council, the United States, Canada, Turkey, Australia, Russia, the United Kingdom and other countries generally call the group \"ISIL\", while much of the Arab world uses the Arabic acronym \"Dāʻish\" (or \"Daesh\"). France's Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said \"This is a terrorist group and not a state. I do not recommend using the term Islamic State because it blurs the lines between Islam, Muslims, and Islamists. The Arabs call it 'Daesh' and I will be calling them the 'Daesh cutthroats.'\" Retired general John Allen, the U.S. envoy appointed to co-ordinate the coalition; U.S. Army Lieutenant General James Terry, head of operations against the group; and Secretary of State John Kerry had all shifted towards use of the term Daesh by December 2014.\n\nISIL is a theocracy, proto-state and a Salafi or Wahhabi group. ISIL's ideology represents radical Salafi Islam, a strict, puritanical form of Sunni Islam. Muslim organisations like Islamic Networks Group (ING) in America have argued against this interpretation of Islam. ISIS promotes religious violence, and regards Muslims who do not agree with its interpretations as infidels or apostates. According to Hayder al Khoei, ISIL's philosophy is represented by the symbolism in the Black Standard variant of the legendary battle flag of Prophet Muhammad that it has adopted: the flag shows the Seal of Muhammad within a white circle, with the phrase above it, \"There is no god but Allah\". Such symbolism has been said to point to ISIL's belief that it represents the restoration of the caliphate of early Islam, with all the political, religious and eschatological ramifications that this would imply.\n\nAccording to some observers, ISIL emerged from the ideology of the Muslim Brotherhood, the first post-Ottoman Islamist group dating back to the late 1920s in Egypt. It adheres to global jihadist principles and follows the hard-line ideology of al-Qaeda and many other modern-day jihadist groups. However, other sources trace the group's roots to Wahhabism.\n\nAccording to \"The Economist\", dissidents in the former ISIL capital of Raqqa report that \"all 12 of the judges who now run its court system ... are Saudis\". Saudi practices also followed by the group include the establishment of religious police to root out \"vice\" and enforce attendance at salat prayers, the widespread use of capital punishment, and the destruction or re-purposing of any non-Sunni religious buildings. Bernard Haykel has described ISIL leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi's creed as \"a kind of untamed Wahhabism\". Senior Saudi religious leaders have issued statements condemning ISIL and attempting to distance the group from official Saudi religious beliefs.\n\nISIL aims to return to the early days of Islam, rejecting all innovations in the religion, which it believes corrupts its original spirit. It condemns later caliphates and the Ottoman Empire for deviating from what it calls pure Islam, and seeks to revive the original Wahhabi project of the restoration of the caliphate governed by strict Salafist doctrine. Following Salafi-Wahhabi tradition, ISIL condemns the followers of secular law as disbelievers, putting the current Saudi Arabian government in that category.\n\nSalafists such as ISIL believe that only a legitimate authority can undertake the leadership of jihad, and that the first priority over other areas of combat, such as fighting non-Muslim countries, is the purification of Islamic society. For example, ISIL regards the Palestinian Sunni group Hamas as apostates who have no legitimate authority to lead jihad and see fighting Hamas as the first step toward confrontation by ISIL with Israel.\n\nOne difference between ISIL and other Islamist and jihadist movements, including al-Qaeda, is the group's emphasis on eschatology and apocalypticism – that is, a belief in a final Day of Judgment by God, and specifically, a belief that the arrival of one known as Imam Mahdi is near. ISIL believes that it will defeat the army of \"Rome\" at the town of Dabiq, in fulfilment of prophecy. Following its interpretation of the Hadith of the Twelve Successors, ISIL also believes that after al-Baghdadi there will be only four more legitimate caliphs.\n\nThe noted scholar of militant Islamism Will McCants writes:\n\nSince at least 2004, a significant goal of the group has been the foundation of a Sunni Islamic state. Specifically, ISIL has sought to establish itself as a caliphate, an Islamic state led by a group of religious authorities under a supreme leader – the caliph – who is believed to be the successor to Prophet Muhammad. In June 2014, ISIL published a document in which it claimed to have traced the lineage of its leader al-Baghdadi back to Muhammad, and upon proclaiming a new caliphate on 29 June, the group appointed al-Baghdadi as its caliph. As caliph, he demands the allegiance of all devout Muslims worldwide, according to Islamic jurisprudence (\"fiqh\").\n\nISIL has detailed its goals in its \"Dabiq\" magazine, saying it will continue to seize land and take over the entire Earth until its:\n\nAccording to German journalist Jürgen Todenhöfer, who spent ten days embedded with ISIL in Mosul, the view he kept hearing was that ISIL wants to \"conquer the world\", and that all who do not believe in the group's interpretation of the Quran will be killed. Todenhöfer was struck by the ISIL fighters' belief that \"all religions who agree with democracy have to die\", and by their \"incredible enthusiasm\" – including enthusiasm for killing \"hundreds of millions\" of people.\n\nWhen the caliphate was proclaimed, ISIL stated: \"The legality of all emirates, groups, states and organisations becomes null by the expansion of the khilafah's [caliphate's] authority and arrival of its troops to their areas.\" This was a rejection of the political divisions in Southwestern Asia that were established by the UK and France during World War I in the Sykes–Picot Agreement.\n\nAll non-Muslim areas would be targeted for conquest after the Muslim lands were dealt with, according to the Islamist manual \"Management of Savagery\".\n\nDocuments found after the death of Samir Abd Muhammad al-Khlifawi, a former colonel in the intelligence service of the Iraqi Air Force before the US invasion who had been described as \"the strategic head\" of ISIL, detailed planning for the ISIL takeover of northern Syria which made possible \"the group's later advances into Iraq\". Al-Khlifawi called for the infiltration of areas to be conquered with spies who would find out \"as much as possible about the target towns: Who lived there, who was in charge, which families were religious, which Islamic school of religious jurisprudence they belonged to, how many mosques there were, who the imam was, how many wives and children he had and how old they were\". Following this surveillance and espionage would come murder and kidnapping – \"the elimination of every person who might have been a potential leader or opponent\". In Raqqa, after rebel forces drove out the Assad regime and ISIL infiltrated the town, \"first dozens and then hundreds of people disappeared\".\n\nSecurity and intelligence expert Martin Reardon has described ISIL's purpose as being to psychologically \"break\" those under its control, \"[...] so as to ensure their absolute allegiance through fear and intimidation,\" while generating, \"[...]outright hate and vengeance\" among its enemies. Jason Burke, a journalist writing on Salafi jihadism, has written that ISIL's goal is to \"terrorize, mobilize [and] polarize\". Its efforts to terrorise are intended to intimidate civilian populations and force governments of the target enemy \"to make rash decisions that they otherwise would not choose\". It aims to mobilise its supporters by motivating them with, for example, spectacular deadly attacks deep in Western territory (such as the November 2015 Paris attacks), to polarise by driving Muslim populations – particularly in the West – away from their governments, thus increasing the appeal of ISIL's self-proclaimed caliphate among them, and to: \"Eliminate neutral parties through either absorption or elimination\". Journalist Rukmini Maria Callimachi also emphasises ISIL's interest in polarization or in eliminating what it calls the \"grey zone\" between the black (non-Muslims) and white (ISIL). \"The gray is moderate Muslims who are living in the West and are happy and feel engaged in the society here.\"\n\nA work published online in 2004 entitled \"Management of Savagery\" (\"Idarat at Tawahoush\"), described by several media outlets as influential on ISIL and intended to provide a strategy to create a new Islamic caliphate, recommended a strategy of attack outside its territory in which fighters would, \"Diversify and widen the vexation strikes against the Crusader-Zionist enemy in every place in the Islamic world, and even outside of it if possible, so as to disperse the efforts of the alliance of the enemy and thus drain it to the greatest extent possible.\"\n\nThe group has been accused of attempting to \"bolster morale\" and distract attention from its loss of territory to enemies by staging terror attacks abroad (such as the 6 June 2017 attacks on Tehran, the 22 May 2017 bombing in Manchester, UK, and the 3 June 2017 attacks in London that ISIL claimed credit for).\n\nRaqqa in Syria was under ISIL control since 2013 and in 2014 it became the group's \"de facto\" capital city. On 17 October 2017, following a lengthy battle that saw massive destruction to the city, the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) announced the full capture of Raqqa from ISIL.\n\nISIL is headed and run by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Before their deaths, he had two deputy leaders, Abu Muslim al-Turkmani for Iraq and Abu Ali al-Anbari (also known as Abu Ala al-Afri) for Syria, both ethnic Turkmen. Advising al-Baghdadi is a cabinet of senior leaders, while its operations in Iraq and Syria are controlled by local governors. Beneath the leaders are councils on finance, leadership, military matters, legal matters (including decisions on executions) foreign fighters' assistance, security, intelligence and media. In addition, a shura council has the task of ensuring that all decisions made by the governors and councils comply with the group's interpretation of sharia. While al-Baghdadi has told followers to \"advise me when I err\" in sermons, according to observers \"any threat, opposition, or even contradiction is instantly eradicated\".\n\nAccording to Iraqis, Syrians and analysts who study the group, almost all of ISIL's leaders—including the members of its military and security committees and the majority of its emirs and princes—are former Iraqi military and intelligence officers, specifically former members of Saddam Hussein's Ba'ath government who lost their jobs and pensions in the de-Ba'athification process after that regime was overthrown. The former Chief Strategist in the Office of the Coordinator for Counterterrorism of the US State Department, David Kilcullen, has said that \"There undeniably would be no Isis if we had not invaded Iraq.\"\nIt has been reported that Iraqis and Syrians have been given greater precedence over other nationalities within ISIL because the group needs the loyalties of the local Sunni populations in both Syria and Iraq in order to be sustainable. Other reports, however, have indicated that Syrians are at a disadvantage to foreign members, with some native Syrian fighters resenting \"favouritism\" allegedly shown towards foreigners over pay and accommodation.\n\nIn August 2016, media reports based on briefings by Western intelligence agencies suggested that ISIL had a multilevel secret service known in Arabic as Emni, established in 2014, that has become a combination of an internal police force and an external operations directorate complete with regional branches. The unit was believed to be under the overall command of ISIL's most senior Syrian operative, spokesman and propaganda chief Abu Mohammad al-Adnani until his death by airstrike in late August 2016.\n\nIn 2014 \"The Wall Street Journal\" estimated that eight million people lived in the Islamic State. The United Nations Commission on Human Rights has stated that ISIL \"seeks to subjugate civilians under its control and dominate every aspect of their lives through terror, indoctrination, and the provision of services to those who obey\". Civilians, as well as the Islamic State itself, have released footage of some of the human rights abuses.\n\nSocial control of civilians is by imposition of ISIL's reading of sharia law, enforced by morality police forces known as \"Al-Hisbah\" and the all-women Al-Khanssaa Brigade, a general police force, courts, and other \"entities managing recruitment, tribal relations, and education\". \"Al-Hisbah\" is led by Abu Muhammad al-Jazrawi.\n\nEstimates of the size of ISIL's military have varied widely, from tens of thousands up to 200,000.\nIn early 2015, journalist Mary Anne Weaver estimated that half of ISIL fighters were foreigners. A UN report estimated a total of 15,000 fighters from over 80 countries were in ISIL's ranks in November 2014. US intelligence estimated an increase to around 20,000 foreign fighters in February 2015, including 3,400 from the Western world. In September 2015, the CIA estimated that 30,000 foreign fighters had joined ISIL.\n\nAccording to Abu Hajjar, a former senior leader of ISIL, foreign fighters receive food, petrol and housing, but unlike native Iraqi or Syrian fighters, they do not receive payment in wages. Since 2012, more than 3000 people from the central Asian countries have gone to Syria, Iraq or Afghanistan to join the Islamic State,ISIS or Jabhat al Nusra.\n\nISIL relies mostly on captured weapons with major sources including Saddam Hussein's Iraqi stockpiles from the 2003–11 Iraq insurgency and weapons from government and opposition forces fighting in the Syrian Civil War and during the post-US withdrawal Iraqi insurgency. The captured weapons, including armour, guns, surface-to-air missiles, and even some aircraft, enabled rapid territorial growth and facilitated the capture of additional equipment. For example, ISIL captured US-made TOW anti-tank missiles supplied by the United States and Saudi Arabia to the Free Syrian Army in Syria. Ninety percent of the group's weapons ultimately originated in China, Russia or Eastern Europe according to Conflict Armament Research.\n\nThe group uses truck and car bombs, suicide bombers and IEDs, and has used chemical weapons in Iraq and Syria. ISIL captured nuclear materials from Mosul University in July 2014, but is unlikely to be able to convert them into weapons.\nIn September 2015 a US official stated that ISIL was manufacturing and using mustard agent in Syria and Iraq, and had an active chemical weapons research team. ISIL has also used water as a weapon of war. The group closed the gates of the smaller Nuaimiyah dam in Fallujah in April 2014, flooding the surrounding regions, while cutting the water supply to the Shia-dominated south. Around 12,000 families lost their homes and 200 km² of villages and fields were either flooded or dried up. The economy of the region also suffered with destruction of cropland and electricity shortages.\n\nDuring the Battle of Mosul it was reported that commercially available quadcopters and drones were being used by ISIL as surveillance and weapons delivery platforms using extemporised cradles to drop grenades and other explosives. The ISIL drone facility became a target of Royal Air Force strike aircraft.\n\nAlthough ISIL attracts followers from different parts of the world by promoting the image of holy war, not all of its recruits end up in combatant roles. There have been several cases of new recruits expecting to be \"mujahideen\" who have returned from Syria disappointed by the everyday jobs that were assigned to them, such as drawing water or cleaning toilets, or by the ban imposed on use of mobile phones during military training sessions.\n\nISIL publishes material directed at women. Although women are not allowed to take up arms, media groups encourage them to play supportive roles within ISIL, such as providing first aid, cooking, nursing and sewing skills, in order to become \"good wives of jihad\". \n\nUntil 2016, women were generally confined to a \"women's house\" upon arrival which they were unallowed to leave. These houses were often small, dirty and infested with vermin and food supplyt was scarce. There they remained until they either had found a husband, or the husband they had arrived with had completed his training.After being allowed to leave the confinement, women still generally spent most of their days indoors where their lives are devoted to caring for their husbands and the vast majority of women in the conflict area have children. Mothers play an important role passing on ISIS ideology to their children. Widows are encouraged to remarry.\n\nIn a document entitled \"Women in the Islamic State: Manifesto and Case Study\" released by the media wing of ISIL's all-female Al-Khanssaa Brigade, emphasis is given to the paramount importance of marriage and motherhood (as early as nine years old). Women should live a life of \"sedentariness\", fulfilling her \"divine duty of motherhood\" at home, with a few exceptions like teachers and doctors. Equality for women is opposed, as is education on non-religious subjects, the \"worthless worldly sciences\".\n\nISIL is known for its extensive and effective use of propaganda. It uses a version of the Muslim Black Standard flag and developed an emblem which has clear symbolic meaning in the Muslim world.\n\nIn November 2006, shortly after the group's rebranding as the \"Islamic State of Iraq\", it established the Al-Furqan Foundation for Media Production, which produces CDs, DVDs, posters, pamphlets, and web-related propaganda products and official statements. It began to expand its media presence in 2013, with the formation of a second media wing, Al-I'tisam Media Foundation, in March and the Ajnad Foundation for Media Production, specialising in nasheeds and audio content, in August. In mid-2014, ISIL established the Al Hayat Media Center, which targets Western audiences and produces material in English, German, Russian and French. When ISIL announced its expansion to other countries in November 2014 it established media departments for the new branches, and its media apparatus ensured that the new branches follow the same models it uses in Iraq and Syria. Then FBI Director James Comey said that ISIL's \"propaganda is unusually slick,\" noting that, \"They are broadcasting... in something like 23 languages\".\n\nIn July 2014, al-Hayat began publishing a digital magazine called \"Dabiq\", in a number of different languages including English. According to the magazine, its name is taken from the town of Dabiq in northern Syria, which is mentioned in a hadith about Armageddon. Al-Hayat also began publishing other digital magazines, including the Turkish language \"Konstantiniyye\", the Ottoman word for Istanbul, and the French language \"Dar al-Islam\". By late 2016, these magazines had apparently all been discontinued, with Al-Hayat's material being consolidated into a new magazine called \"Rumiyah\" (Arabic for Rome).\n\nThe group also runs a radio network called Al-Bayan, which airs bulletins in Arabic, Russian and English and provides coverage of its activities in Iraq, Syria and Libya.\n\nISIL's use of social media has been described by one expert as \"probably more sophisticated than [that of] most US companies\". It regularly uses social media, particularly Twitter, to distribute its messages. The group uses the encrypted instant messaging service Telegram to disseminate images, videos and updates.\n\nThe group is known for releasing videos and photographs of executions of prisoners, whether beheadings, shootings, caged prisoners being burnt alive or submerged gradually until drowned. Journalist Abdel Bari Atwan described ISIL's media content as part of a \"systematically applied policy\". The escalating violence of its killings \"guarantees\" the attention of the media and public.\n\nAlong with images of brutality, ISIL presents itself as \"an emotionally attractive place where people 'belong', where everyone is a 'brother' or 'sister'\". The \"most potent psychological pitch\" of ISIL media is the promise of heavenly reward to dead jihadist fighters. Frequently posted in their media are dead jihadists' smiling faces, the ISIL 'salute' of a 'right-hand index finger pointing heavenward', and testimonies of happy widows. ISIL has also attempted to present a more \"rational argument\" in a series of videos hosted by the kidnapped journalist John Cantlie. In one video, various current and former US officials were quoted, such as the then US President Barack Obama and former CIA Officer Michael Scheuer.\n\nIt has encouraged sympathisers to initiate vehicle-ramming and attacks worldwide.\n\nAccording to a 2015 study by the Financial Action Task Force, ISIL's five primary sources of revenue are as follows (listed in order of significance):\n\nSince 2012, ISIL has produced annual reports giving numerical information on its operations, somewhat in the style of corporate reports, seemingly in a bid to encourage potential donors.\n\nIn 2014, the RAND Corporation analysed ISIL's funding sources from documents captured between 2005 and 2010. It found that outside donations amounted to only 5% of the group's operating budgets, and that cells inside Iraq were required to send up to 20% of the income generated from kidnapping, extortion rackets and other activities to the next level of the group's leadership, which would then redistribute the funds to provincial or local cells that were in difficulties or needed money to conduct attacks. In 2016, RAND estimated that ISIL finances from its largest source of income — oil revenues and the taxes it extracts from people under its control — had fallen from about $1.9 billion in 2014 to $870 million.\n\nIn mid-2014, the Iraqi National Intelligence Service obtained information that ISIL had assets worth US$2 billion, making it the richest jihadist group in the world. About three-quarters of this sum was said to looted from Mosul's central bank and commercial banks in the city. However, doubt was later cast on whether ISIL was able to retrieve anywhere near that sum from the central bank, and even on whether the looting had actually occurred.\n\nISIL attempted to create a modern gold dinar by minting gold, silver, and copper coins, based on the coinage used by the Umayyad Caliphate in the 7th century. Despite a propaganda push for the currency, adoption appeared to have been minimal and its internal economy is effectively dollarized, even with regards to its own fines.\n\nThe group was founded in 1999 by Jordanian Salafi jihadist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi under the name \"Jamāʻat al-Tawḥīd wa-al-Jihād\" (). In a letter published by the Coalition in February 2004, Zarqawi wrote that jihadis should use bombings to start an open sectarian war so that Sunnis from the Islamic world would mobilize against assassinations carried out by Shia, specifically the Badr Brigade, against Ba'athists and Sunnis. Colonel Derek Harvey told Reuters that \"the U.S. military detained Badr assassination teams possessing target lists of Sunni officers and pilots in 2003 and 2004 but did not hold them. Harvey said his superiors told him that 'this stuff had to play itself out' – implying that revenge attacks by returning Shi'ite groups were to be expected.\" Jerry Burke, an adviser to the Iraqi Interior Ministry, said that in 2005 a plan from him and several colleagues to surveil and stop suspected Badr Brigade death squads in the special police forces was rejected when it got to an American Flag (General) Officer.\n\nFollowing the 2003 invasion of Iraq by Western forces, al-Zarqawi and \"Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad\" achieved notoriety in the early stages of the Iraqi insurgency for their suicide attacks on Shia mosques, civilians, Iraqi government institutions and Italian soldiers of the US-led 'Multi-National Force'.\n\nIn October 2004, when al-Zarqawi swore loyalty to Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda, he renamed the group \"Tanẓīm Qāʻidat al-Jihād fī Bilād al-Rāfidayn\" (), commonly known as al-Qaeda in Iraq (AQI). Although the group never called itself \"al-Qaeda in Iraq\", this remained its informal name for many years. Attacks by the group on civilians, Iraqi government forces, foreign diplomats and soldiers, and American convoys continued with roughly the same intensity. In a letter to al-Zarqawi in July 2005, al-Qaeda's then deputy leader Ayman al-Zawahiri outlined a four-stage plan to expand the Iraq War. The plan included expelling US forces from Iraq, establishing an Islamic authority as a caliphate, spreading the conflict to Iraq's secular neighbours, and clashing with Israel, which the letter said, \"[...] was established only to challenge any new Islamic entity\".\n\nIn January 2006, AQI joined with several smaller Iraqi Sunni insurgent groups under an umbrella organisation called the Mujahideen Shura Council (MSC). According to counterterrorism researcher Brian Fishman, the merger was an attempt to give the group a more Iraqi flavour, and perhaps to distance al-Qaeda from some of al-Zarqawi's tactical errors, such as the 2005 bombings by AQI of three hotels in Amman. On 7 June 2006, a US airstrike killed al-Zarqawi, who was succeeded as leader of the group by the Egyptian militant Abu Ayyub al-Masri.\n\nOn 12 October 2006, MSC united with three smaller groups and six Sunni tribes to form the Mutayibeen Coalition, pledging \"To rid Sunnis from the oppression of the rejectionists (Shi'ite Muslims) and the crusader occupiers ... to restore rights even at the price of our own lives ... to make Allah's word supreme in the world, and to restore the glory of Islam\". A day later, MSC declared the establishment of the Islamic State of Iraq (ISI), comprising Iraq's six mostly Sunni Arab governorates, with Abu Omar al-Baghdadi its emir and al-Masri Minister of War within ISI's ten-member cabinet.\n\nAccording to a study compiled by United States intelligence agencies in early 2007, ISI planned to seize power in the central and western areas of Iraq and turn it into a Sunni caliphate.\nThe group built in strength and at its height enjoyed a significant presence in the Iraqi governorates of Al Anbar, Diyala and Baghdad, claiming Baqubah as a capital city.\n\nThe Iraq War troop surge of 2007 supplied the US military with more manpower for operations, and dozens of high-level AQI members being captured or killed. Between July and October 2007, al-Qaeda in Iraq was reported to have lost its secure military bases in Al Anbar province and the Baghdad area. During 2008, a series of US and Iraqi offensives managed to drive out AQI-aligned insurgents from their former safe havens, such as the Diyala and Al Anbar governorates, to the area of the northern city of Mosul.\n\nBy 2008, the ISI was describing itself as being in a state of \"extraordinary crisis\". Its violent attempts to govern territory led to a backlash from Sunni Arab Iraqis and other insurgent groups and a temporary decline in the group, which was attributable to a number of factors, notably the Anbar Awakening.\n\nIn late 2009, the commander of US forces in Iraq, General Ray Odierno, stated that ISI \"has transformed significantly in the last two years. What once was dominated by foreign individuals has now become more and more dominated by Iraqi citizens\". On 18 April 2010, ISI's two top leaders, al-Masri and Omar al-Baghdadi, were killed in a joint US-Iraqi raid near Tikrit. In a press conference in June 2010, General Odierno reported that 80% of ISI's top 42 leaders, including recruiters and financiers, had been killed or captured, with only eight remaining at large. He said that they had been cut off from al-Qaeda's leadership in Pakistan.\n\nOn 16 May 2010, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was appointed the new leader of ISI. Al-Baghdadi replenished the group's leadership by appointing former Iraqi military and Intelligence Service officers who had served during Saddam Hussein's rule. These men, nearly all of whom had spent time imprisoned by the US military at Camp Bucca, came to make up about one third of Baghdadi's top 25 commanders, including Abu Abdulrahman al-Bilawi, Abu Ayman al-Iraqi, and Abu Muslim al-Turkmani. One of them, a former colonel called Samir al-Khlifawi, also known as Haji Bakr, became the overall military commander in charge of overseeing the group's operations. Al-Khlifawi was instrumental in doing the ground work that led to the growth of ISIL.\n\nIn July 2012, al-Baghdadi released an audio statement online announcing that the group was returning to former strongholds from which US troops and the Sons of Iraq had driven them in 2007 and 2008. He declared the start of a new offensive in Iraq called \"Breaking the Walls\", aimed at freeing members of the group held in Iraqi prisons.\nViolence in Iraq had begun to escalate in June 2012, primarily with AQI's car bomb attacks, and by July 2013, monthly fatalities exceeded 1,000 for the first time since April 2008.\n\nIn March 2011, protests began in Syria against the Syrian government of Bashar al-Assad. In the following months, violence between demonstrators and security forces led to a gradual militarisation of the conflict. In August 2011, following the outbreak of the Syrian Civil War, al-Baghdadi began sending Syrian and Iraqi ISI members experienced in guerilla warfare across the border into Syria to establish an organisation there. Under the name \"\" (or al-Nusra Front), it established a large presence in Sunni-majority Raqqa, Idlib, Deir ez-Zor, and Aleppo provinces. Led by a Syrian known as Abu Muhammad al-Julani, this group began to recruit fighters and establish cells throughout the country.\n\nOn 23 January 2012, the Syrian group called itself \"Jabhat al-Nusra li Ahl as-Sham\", more commonly known as the al-Nusra Front. Al-Nusra grew rapidly into a capable fighting force, with popular support among Syrians opposed to the Assad government.\n\nOn 8 April 2013, al-Baghdadi released an audio statement in which he announced that the al-Nusra Front had been established, financed, and supported by ISI, and that the two groups were merging under the name Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIL, Al-Sham also translates as the Levant). However, Abu Mohammad al-Julani and Ayman al-Zawahiri, the leaders of al-Nusra and al-Qaeda respectively, rejected the merger. Al-Julani issued a statement denying the merger, and complaining that neither he nor anyone else in al-Nusra's leadership had been consulted about it. In June 2013, Al Jazeera reported that it had obtained a letter written by al-Qaeda's leader Ayman al-Zawahiri, addressed to both leaders, in which he ruled against the merger, and appointed an emissary to oversee relations between them to put an end to tensions. That same month, al-Baghdadi released an audio message rejecting al-Zawahiri's ruling and declaring that the merger was going ahead.\n\nMeanwhile, the ISIL campaign to free its imprisoned members culminated in simultaneous raids on Taji and Abu Ghraib prisons in July 2013, freeing more than 500 prisoners, many of them veterans of the Iraqi insurgency. In October 2013, al-Zawahiri ordered the disbanding of ISIL, putting al-Nusra Front in charge of jihadist efforts in Syria, but al-Baghdadi rejected al-Zawahiri's order, and his group continued to operate in Syria. In February 2014, after an eight-month power struggle, al-Qaeda publicly disavowed any relations with ISIL.\n\nAccording to journalist Sarah Birke, there are \"significant differences\" between al-Nusra Front and ISIL. While al-Nusra actively calls for the overthrow of the Assad government, ISIL \"tends to be more focused on establishing its own rule on conquered territory\". ISIL is \"far more ruthless\" in building an Islamic state, \"carrying out sectarian attacks and imposing sharia law immediately\". While al-Nusra has a \"large contingent of foreign fighters\", it is seen as a home-grown group by many Syrians; by contrast, ISIL fighters have been described as \"foreign 'occupiers'\" by many Syrian refugees. Foreign fighters in Syria include Russian-speaking jihadists who were part of Jaish al-Muhajireen wal-Ansar (JMA). In November 2013, Abu Omar al-Shishani, leader of the Jaish al-Muhajireen wal-Ansar (JMA), swore an oath of allegiance to al-Baghdadi; the group then split between those who followed al-Shishani in joining ISIL and those who continued to operate independently in the JMA under new leadership.\n\nIn January 2014, rebels affiliated with the Islamic Front and the US-trained Free Syrian Army launched an offensive against ISIL militants in and around the city of Aleppo, following months of tensions over ISIL's behavior, which included the seizure of property and weapons from rebel groups, and the arrests and killings of activists. Months of clashes ensued, causing thousands of casualties, with ISIL withdrawing its forces from Idlib and Latakia provinces and redeploying them to reinforce its strongholds in Raqqa and Aleppo. It also launched an offensive against all other opposition forces active in the eastern province of Deir ez-Zor, on the border with Iraq. By June 2014, ISIL had largely defeated its rivals in the province, with many who had not been killed or driven away pledging allegiance to it.\n\nIn Iraq, ISIL was able to capture most of Fallujah in January 2014, and in June 2014 was able to seize control of Mosul.\n\nAfter an eight-month power struggle, al-Qaeda cut all ties with ISIL by February 2014, citing its failure to consult and \"notorious intransigence\".\n\nIn early 2014, ISIL drove Iraqi government forces out of key cities in its Anbar campaign, which was followed by the capture of Mosul and the Sinjar massacre. The loss of control almost caused a collapse of the Iraqi government and prompted a renewal of US military action in Iraq. In Syria, ISIL has conducted ground attacks on both the Syrian Arab Army and rebel factions.\n\nOn 29 June 2014, ISIL proclaimed itself to be a worldwide caliphate. Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi – known by his supporters as Amir al-Mu'minin, Caliph Ibrahim – was named its caliph, and the group renamed itself \"ad-Dawlah al-Islāmiyah\" (). As a \"Caliphate\", it claims religious, political and military authority over all Muslims worldwide. The concept of it being a caliphate and the name \"Islamic State\" have been rejected by governments and Muslim leaders worldwide.\n\nIn June and July 2014, Jordan and Saudi Arabia moved troops to their borders with Iraq, after the Iraqi government lost control of (or withdrew from) strategic crossing points that then came under the control of either ISIL or tribes that supported it. There was speculation that Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki had ordered a withdrawal of troops from the Iraq–Saudi crossings in order \"to increase pressure on Saudi Arabia and bring the threat of ISIS over-running its borders as well\".\n\nIn July 2014, ISIL recruited more than 6,300 fighters, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, some of whom were thought to have previously fought for the Free Syrian Army. On 23 July 2014, Abu Sayyaf leader Isnilon Totoni Hapilon and some masked men swore loyalty to al-Baghdadi in a video, giving ISIL a presence in the Philippines. In September 2014, the group began kidnapping people for ransom.\n\nIn 2016, according to the daily, La Stampa, officials from Europol conducted an investigation into the trafficking of fake documents for ISIL. They have identified fake Syrian passports in the refugee camps in Greece that were destined to supposed members of ISIS, in order to avoid Greek government controls and make their way to other parts of Europe. Also, the chief of Europol said that a new task force of 200 counter terrorism officers will be deployed to the Greek islands alongside Greek border guards in order to help Greece thwart a \"strategic\" level campaign by Islamic State to infiltrate terrorists into Europe.\n\nOn 3 August 2014, ISIL captured the cities of Zumar, Sinjar, and Wana in northern Iraq. Thousands of Yazidis fled up Mount Sinjar, fearful of the approaching hostile ISIL militants. The stranded Yazidis' need for food and water, the threat of genocide to them and to others announced by ISIL, along with the desire to protect US citizens in Iraq and support the Iraqi government in its fight against ISIL, were all reasons given for the 2014 American intervention in Iraq, which began on 7 August. A US aerial bombing campaign began the following day.\n\nAt the end of October 2014, 800 militants gained partial control of the Libyan city of Derna and pledged their allegiance to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, thus making Derna the first city outside Syria and Iraq to be a part of the \"Islamic State Caliphate\". On 10 November 2014, a major faction of the Egyptian militant group Ansar Bait al-Maqdis also pledged its allegiance to ISIL. In mid-January 2015, a Yemeni official said that ISIL had \"dozens\" of members in Yemen, and that they were coming into direct competition with al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula because of their recruitment drive. The same month, Afghan officials confirmed that ISIL had a military presence in Afghanistan. However, by February 2015, 65 of the militants were either captured or killed by the Taliban, and ISIL's top Afghan recruiter, Mullah Abdul Rauf, was killed in a US drone strike.\n\nIn early February 2015, ISIL militants in Libya managed to capture part of the countryside to the west of Sabha, and later, an area encompassing the cities of Sirte, Nofolia, and a military base to the south of both cities. By March, ISIL had captured additional territory, including a city to the west of Derna, additional areas near Sirte, a stretch of land in southern Libya, some areas around Benghazi, and an area to the east of Tripoli.\n\nOn 7 March 2015, Boko Haram swore formal allegiance to ISIL, giving ISIL an official presence in Nigeria, Niger, Chad and Cameroon. On 13 March 2015, a group of militants from the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan swore allegiance to ISIL; the group released another video on 31 July 2015 showing its spiritual leader also pledging allegiance. In June 2015, the US Deputy Secretary of State announced that ISIL had lost more than 10,000 members in airstrikes over the preceding nine months.\n\nSince 2015, ISIL lost territory in Iraq and Syria, including Tikrit in March and April 2015, Baiji in October, Sinjar in November 2015, Ramadi in December 2015, Fallujah in June 2016 and Palmyra in March 2017.\n\nOn 10 July 2017, Iraqi Prime Minister Abadi formally declared a local Iraqi victory over ISIL in the recent Iraqi army expulsion of ISIL from the city of Mosul. Since the fall of ISIL in Mosul, the overall extent of ISIL held territory in both Syria and Iraq has significantly diminished. On 17 October 2017, ISIL lost control of Raqqa in the second battle of Raqqa. On 3 November, Deir ez-Zor, ISIL's last major city in Syria, was recaptured, as well as Rawa, the last town held by ISIL in Iraq.\n\nOn 21 November 2017, Iranian president Hassan Rouhani declared victory over ISIL. Qasem Soleimani, senior military officer of the Guardians of the Islamic Revolution, wrote to Iran's supreme leader Ali Khamenei that ISIL had been defeated. Vladimir Putin, President of Russia, declared victory over ISIL in Syria as well. Iraqi prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, also announced the military defeat of ISIL in Iraq.\n\nIn 2015, 2016 and 2017, ISIL claimed responsibility for a number of high-profile terrorist attacks outside Iraq and Syria, including a mass shooting at a Tunisian tourist resort (38 European tourists killed), the Suruç bombing in Turkey (33 leftist and pro-Kurdish activists killed), the Tunisian National Museum attack (24 foreign tourists and Tunisians killed), the Sana'a mosque bombings (142 Shia civilians killed), the crash of Metrojet Flight 9268 (224 killed, mostly Russian tourists), the bombings in Ankara (102 pro-Kurdish and leftist activists killed), the bombings in Beirut (43 Shia civilians killed), the November 2015 Paris attacks (130 civilians killed), the killing of Jaafar Mohammed Saad, the governor of Aden, the January 2016 Istanbul bombing (11 foreign tourists killed), the 2016 Brussels bombings (32 civilians killed), the 2016 Atatürk Airport attack (48 foreign and Turkish civilians killed), the 2016 Nice attack (86 civilians killed), the July 2016 Kabul bombing (at least 80 civilians killed, mostly Shia Hazaras), the 2016 Berlin attack (12 civilians killed), the 2017 Istanbul nightclub shooting (39 foreigners and Turks killed), the 2017 Saint Petersburg Metro bombing (15 civilians killed), the 2017 Manchester Arena bombing (22 civilians killed) and the 2017 Tehran attacks (18 civilians killed), 13 July 2018 Pakistan bombings (at least 131 killed). The Saudi Arabian government reports that in one relatively short period—the first 8 months of 2016—there were 25 attacks in the kingdom by ISIL.\n\nOn 30 August 2016, a survey conducted by the Associated Press found that around 72 mass graves have been discovered in areas that have been liberated from ISIL control. In total, these mass graves contain the bodies of approximately 15,000 people killed by ISIL. The report stated that the mass graves were evidence of genocides conducted by ISIL in the region, including the genocide of Yazidis. Seventeen graves were discovered in Syria, with the rest being found in Iraq. At least 16 of the graves in Iraq contained remains that were not counted, as they are located in dangerous conflict zones. Instead, the number of dead in these graves has been estimated.\n\nOn 6 November 2018, a United Nations report revealed over 200 mass graves of thousands of ISIL's victims were discovered. The grave sites, which may contain up to 12,000 bodies, were found in the northern and western Iraqi provinces of Nineveh, Kirkuk, Salah al-Din and Anbar.\n\nAs a self-proclaimed worldwide caliphate, ISIL claims religious, political and military authority over all Muslims worldwide, and that \"the legality of all emirates, groups, states, and organisations, becomes null by the expansion of the khilāfah's [caliphate's] authority and arrival of its troops to their areas\".\n\nSince December 2013, ongoing clashes have occurred throughout western Iraq between tribal militias, Iraqi security forces, and ISIL. In early January 2014, ISIL militants successfully captured the cities of Fallujah and Hīt, bringing much of Anbar Province under their control. In June 2014 ISIL took over the Iraqi city of Mosul. By December 2015, the Islamic State covered a vast landlocked territory in western Iraq and eastern Syria, with a population estimate of 2.8 to 8 million people.\n\nIn Iraq and Syria, ISIL uses many of those countries' existing governorate boundaries to subdivide its claimed territory; it calls these divisions wilayah or provinces. By June 2015, it had established official \"provinces\" in Libya, Egypt (Sinai Peninsula), Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Algeria, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nigeria and the North Caucasus. Since then, ISIL has continued to receive pledges of allegiance and publish media releases from groups in countries like Somalia, Bangladesh and the Philippines, but it has not announced any further official branches, instead identifying new affiliates as simply \"soldiers of the caliphate\".\n\nISIL organises its Libyan branch using the country's three historical regions, Cyrenaica in the east, Fezzan in the desert south, and Tripolitania in the west. They have been the most active and successful of all ISIL branches outside Iraq and Syria. It has been active particularly around Derna, and Gaddafi's hometown Sirte. The group grew quickly following the allegiance of militant groups like the Shura Council of Islamic Youth.\n\nISIL temporarily controlled part of Derna before being driven out in mid-2015 by a rival militant Islamist group, with support from the Libyan Air Force. Libya's Interim Government launched a major offensive against ISIL territory around Sirte in May 2016, capturing the city by December 2016. The Libyan National Army, led by Commander General Khalifa Haftar, has also clashed with ISIL, making advances against the group in Benghazi and Ajdabiya.\n\nSince the Battle of Sirte (12 May – 6 December 2016) ISIL lost most of its territories in Libya to the forces of the Government of National Accord (GNA), backed by the United States. And the last pockets of the ISIL-affiliated Shura Council of Benghazi Revolutionaries were captured by the LNA after three years of fighting.\n\nOn 10 November 2014, many members of the group Ansar Bait al-Maqdis took an oath of allegiance to al-Baghdadi. Following this, the group assumed the designation Sinai Province (\"Wilayat Sinai\"). They are estimated to have 1,000–2,000 fighters. A faction of the Sinai group also operates in the Gaza Strip, calling itself the \"Islamic State in Gaza\". It claimed responsibility for the downing of Russian Metrojet Flight 9268, which killed all 224 people on board, although Egyptian officials disputed the claim.\n\nMembers of Jund al-Khilafah swore allegiance to ISIL in September 2014. ISIL in Algeria gained notoriety when it beheaded French tourist Herve Gourdel in September 2014. Since then, the group has largely been silent, with reports that its leader Khalid Abu-Sulayman was killed by Algerian forces in December 2014.\n\nOn 26 January 2015, Khorasan Province (Wilayat Khorasan) was established, with Hafiz Saeed Khan named as Wāli (Governor) and Abdul Rauf as his deputy after both swore an oath of allegiance to al-Baghdadi. The name Khorasan refers to a historical region that includes parts of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and \"other nearby lands\".\n\nOn 9 February 2015, Mullah Abdul Rauf was killed by a NATO airstrike, and his replacement, Hafiz Wahidi, was killed by the Afghan Armed Forces on 18 March 2015. Hafiz Saeed Khan, the Emir of ISIL's Khorasan Province, was reportedly killed in a US drone strike in eastern Afghanistan on 25 July 2016.\n\nOn 1 August 2018, between 200 to 250 ISIS members surrendered to Afghan government after battle with Taliban. Another 128 surrendered to Taliban. Eight Taliban and six ISIS fighters were reportedly killed in the battle.\n\nOn 13 November 2014, unidentified militants in Yemen pledged allegiance to ISIL. By December of that year, ISIL had built an active presence inside Yemen, with its recruitment drive bringing it into direct competition with al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). In February 2015, it was reported that some members of Ansar al-Sharia in Yemen had split from AQAP and pledged allegiance to ISIL. As the Yemeni Civil War escalated in March 2015, at least seven ISIL Wilayat, named after existing provincial boundaries in Yemen, claimed responsibility for attacks against the Houthis, including the \"Hadhramaut Province\", the \"Shabwah Province\", and the \"Sana'a Province\".\n\nZaidiyyah Houthis (organised in the Supreme Revolutionary Committee) are the principal enemies of Yemen's ISIL branch. While the US government supports the Saudi-led military intervention in Yemen against the Houthis, many in United States Special Operations Command favour the Houthis, as they have been an effective force in rolling back al-Qaeda and recently ISIL in Yemen, \"something that hundreds of U.S. drone strikes and large numbers of advisers to Yemen's military had failed to accomplish\". \"The Guardian\" reported: \"As another 50 civilians die in the forgotten war, only Isis and al-Qaida are gaining from a conflict tearing Yemen apart and leaving 20 million people in need of aid.\"\n\nOn 7 March 2015, Boko Haram's leader Abubakar Shekau pledged allegiance to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant via an audio message posted on the organisation's Twitter account. On 12 March 2015, ISIL's spokesman Abu Mohammad al-Adnani released an audio tape in which he welcomed the pledge of allegiance, and described it as an expansion of the group's caliphate into West Africa. ISIL publications from late March 2015 began referring to members of Boko Haram as part of \"Wilayat Gharb Afriqiya\" (West Africa Province). The group suffered a split in 2016, with ISIL appointing 'Abu Musab al-Barnawi' as the group's new leader, due to disagreements with Abubakar Shekau's leadership. This was rejected by Shekau and his supporters, who continued to operate independently.\n\nSome commanders of the Caucasus Emirate in Chechnya and Dagestan switched their allegiance to ISIL in late 2014 and early 2015. On 23 June 2015, ISIL spokesman Abu Mohammad al-Adnani accepted the pledges of allegiance and announced a new Caucasus Province (\"Wilayat al-Qawqaz\") under the leadership of Rustam Asildarov.\n\nOn 23 July 2014, Abu Sayyaf leader Isnilon Totoni Hapilon in the Philippines swore an oath of loyalty to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of ISIL. In September 2014, the group began kidnapping people so they could be held for ransom, in the name of ISIL. In early 2015, members of Khalifa Islamiyah Mindanao pledged allegiance to ISIL. At the same time, Ansar Khalifa Philippines was born from a merger of Ansar Khalifah Sarangani with other umbrella groups that are pro-ISIL in nature. In May 2017, a pro-ISIL group called the Maute group attacked and seized parts of the southern Philippine city of Marawi on Mindanao island.\n\nOn 17 October 2017, Philippine President Duterte declared Marawi was \"liberated from terrorist influence\". Then on 23 October 2017, Philippine Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana announced that the five-month battle against the terrorists in Marawi had finally ended. The recapture of Marawi by the government led to the failure of militants to establish a provincial ISIL territory \"(wilayat)\" in the Philippines.\n\nIn February 2014, the Mujahideen Shura Council in the Environs of Jerusalem declared its support for ISIL. On 2 April 2015, elements of this group, along with members of the Army of Islam and the Gaza faction of Ansar Bait al-Maqdis, formed the Sheikh Omar Hadid Brigade, also known as Islamic State in Gaza, as it predominantly operates in the Gaza Strip.\n\n\nMany countries and international bodies have officially designated ISIL as a \"terrorist organisation\".\n\nThe group has attracted widespread criticism internationally for its extremism, from governments and international bodies such as the United Nations and Amnesty International. On 24 September 2014, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon stated: \"As Muslim leaders around the world have said, groups like ISIL – or Da'ish – have nothing to do with Islam, and they certainly do not represent a state. They should more fittingly be called the 'Un-Islamic Non-State'.\" ISIL has been classified a terrorist organisation by the United Nations, the European Union and its member states, the United States, Russia, India, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and many other countries (see ). Over 60 countries are directly or indirectly waging war against ISIL (see ). The group was described as a cult in a Huffington Post column by notable cult authority Steven Hassan.\n\nAround the world, Islamic religious leaders have overwhelmingly condemned ISIL's ideology and actions, arguing that the group has strayed from the path of true Islam and that its actions do not reflect the religion's real teachings or virtues.\n\nExtremism within Islam goes back to the 7th century, to the Khawarijes. From their essentially political position, the Kharijites developed extreme doctrines which set them apart from both mainstream Sunni and Shia Muslims. They were particularly noted for adopting a radical approach to takfir, whereby they declared other Muslims to be unbelievers and therefore deemed worthy of death. Other scholars have also described the group not as Sunnis, but as Khawarij. Sunni critics, including Salafi and jihadist muftis such as Adnan al-Aroor and Abu Basir al-Tartusi, say that ISIL and related terrorist groups are not Sunnis, but are instead modern-day Kharijites (Muslims who have stepped outside the mainstream of Islam) serving an imperial anti-Islamic agenda.\n\nISIL has received severe criticism from Muslim religious scholars and theologians. In late August 2014, the Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia, Abdul-Aziz ibn Abdullah Al ash-Sheikh, condemned ISIL and al-Qaeda saying, \"Extremist and militant ideas and terrorism which spread decay on Earth, destroying human civilization, are not in any way part of Islam, but are enemy number one of Islam, and Muslims are their first victims\". In late September 2014, 126 Sunni imams and Islamic scholars—primarily Sufi—from around the Muslim world signed an open letter to the Islamic State's leader al-Baghdadi, explicitly rejecting and refuting his group's interpretations of Islamic scriptures, the Quran and hadith, which it used in order to justify its actions. \"[You] have misinterpreted Islam into a religion of harshness, brutality, torture and murder ... this is a great wrong and an offence to Islam, to Muslims and to the entire world\", the letter states. It rebukes the Islamic State for its killing of prisoners, describing the killings as \"heinous war crimes\" and its persecution of the Yazidis of Iraq as \"abominable\". Referring to the \"self-described 'Islamic State'\", the letter censures the group for carrying out killings and acts of brutality under the guise of jihad—holy struggle—saying that its \"sacrifice\" without legitimate cause, goals and intention \"is not jihad at all, but rather, warmongering and criminality\". It also accuses the group of instigating fitna—sedition—by instituting slavery under its rule in contravention of the anti-slavery consensus of the Islamic scholarly community. \n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", \"All of the most influential jihadist theorists are criticising the Islamic State as deviant, calling its self-proclaimed caliphate null and void\" and they have denounced it for its beheadings of journalists and aid workers. ISIL is widely denounced by a broad range of Islamic clerics, including al-Qaeda-oriented clerics and Saudi clerics. Muhammad al-Yaqoubi states, \"It is enough of a proof of the extreme ideology of ISIS that the top leaders of Salafi-Jihadism have disclaimed it.\"\n\nThe group's declaration of a caliphate has been criticised and its legitimacy has been disputed by Middle Eastern governments, other jihadist groups, and by Sunni Muslim theologians and historians. Qatar-based TV broadcaster and theologian Yusuf al-Qaradawi stated: \"[The] declaration issued by the Islamic State is void under sharia and has dangerous consequences for the Sunnis in Iraq and for the revolt in Syria\", adding that the title of caliph can \"only be given by the entire Muslim nation\", not by a single group. The group's execution of Muslims for breach of traditional \"sharia\" law while violating it itself (encouraging women to emigrate to its territory, travelling without a \"Wali\"—male guardian—and in violation of his wishes) has been criticised; as has its love of archaic imagery (horsemen and swords) while engaging in \"bid'ah\" (religious innovation) in establishing female religious police (known as Al-Khansaa Brigade). In a similar vein, the Syrian Islamic scholar Muhammad al-Yaqoubi says, \"[t]he followers of ISIS do not want to adhere to Islamic law but rather they want to twist Islamic law to conform to their fantasies. To this end, they pick and choose the evidences that corroborate their misguidance, despite being weak or abrogated.\"\n\nTwo days after the beheading of Hervé Gourdel, hundreds of Muslims gathered in the Grand Mosque of Paris to show solidarity against the beheading. The protest was led by the leader of the French Council of the Muslim Faith, Dalil Boubakeur, and was joined by thousands of other Muslims around the country under the slogan \"Not in my name\". French president François Hollande said Gourdel's beheading was \"cowardly\" and \"cruel\", and confirmed that airstrikes would continue against ISIL in Iraq. Hollande also called for three days of national mourning, with flags flown at half-mast throughout the country and said that security would be increased throughout Paris.\n\nAn Islamic Front sharia court judge in Aleppo, Mohamed Najeeb Bannan, stated: \"The legal reference is the Islamic Sharia. The cases are different, from robberies to drug use, to moral crimes. It's our duty to look at any crime that comes to us... After the regime has fallen, we believe that the Muslim majority in Syria will ask for an Islamic state. Of course, it's very important to point out that some say the Islamic Sharia will cut off people's hands and heads, but it only applies to criminals. And to start off by killing, crucifying etc. That is not correct at all.\" In response to being asked what the difference between the Islamic Front's and ISIL's version of sharia would be, he said, \"One of their mistakes is before the regime has fallen, and before they've established what in Sharia is called Tamkeen [having a stable state], they started applying Sharia, thinking God gave them permission to control the land and establish a Caliphate. This goes against the beliefs of religious scholars around the world. This is what [IS] did wrong. This is going to cause a lot of trouble. Anyone who opposes [IS] will be considered against Sharia and will be severely punished.\"\n\nAl-Qaeda and al-Nusra have been trying to take advantage of ISIL's rise, by attempting to present themselves as \"moderate\" compared to \"extremist\" ISIL, although it has the same aim of establishing sharia and a caliphate but doing so in a more gradual manner. Al-Nusra has criticised the way in which ISIL fully and immediately institutes sharia in the areas that fall under its control, since it alienates people too much. It supports the gradual, slower approach favoured by al-Qaeda, preparing society to accept sharia and indoctrinating people through education before implementing the hudud aspects of sharia, such as throwing gays from the top of buildings, chopping limbs off, and public stoning. Al-Nusra and ISIL are both hostile towards the Druze. However, while al-Nusra has typically destroyed Druze shrines and pressured them to convert to Sunni Islam, ISIL regards the entire Druze community as a valid target for violence, as it does the Yazidis.\n\nAyman al-Zawahiri, the leader of al-Qaeda, has called for consultation (shura) within the \"prophetic method\" to be used when establishing the caliphate, criticising al-Baghdadi for not following the required steps. Al-Zawahiri has called upon ISIL members to close ranks and join al-Qaeda in fighting against Assad, the Shia, Russia, Europe, and America and to stop the infighting between jihadist groups. He called upon jihadists to establish Islamic entities in Egypt and the Levant, slowly implementing sharia before establishing a caliphate, and has called for violent assaults against America and the West.\n\nThe Jaysh al-Islam group within the Islamic Front criticised ISIL, saying: \"They killed the people of Islam and leave the idol worshippers ... They use the verses talking about the disbelievers and implement it on the Muslims\". The main criticism of defectors from ISIL has been that the group is fighting and killing other Sunni Muslims, as opposed to just non-Sunnis being brutalised. In one case, a supposed defector from ISIL executed two activists of a Syrian opposition group in Turkey who had sheltered them.\n\nThe current Grand Imam of al-Azhar and former president of al-Azhar University, Ahmed el-Tayeb, has strongly condemned the Islamic State, stating that it is acting \"under the guise of this holy religion and have given themselves the name 'Islamic State' in an attempt to export their false Islam\". Citing the Quran, he stated: \"The punishment for those who wage war against God and his Prophet and who strive to sow corruption on earth is death, crucifixion, the severing of hands and feet on opposite sides or banishment from the land. This is the disgrace for them in this world and in the hereafter they will receive grievous torment.\" Although el-Tayeb has been criticised for not expressly stating that the Islamic State is heretical, the Ash'ari school of Islamic theology, to which el-Tayeb belongs, does not allow calling a person who follows the shahada an apostate. El-Tayeb has strongly come out against the practice of takfirism (declaring a Muslim an apostate) which is used by the Islamic State to \"judge and accuse anyone who doesn't tow their line with apostasy and outside the realm of the faith\" declaring \"Jihad on peaceful Muslims\" using \"flawed interpretations of some Qur'anic texts, the prophet's Sunna, and the Imams' views believing incorrectly, that they are leaders of Muslim armies fighting infidel peoples, in unbelieving lands\".\n\nIn late December 2015, nearly 70,000 Indian Muslim clerics associated with the Indian Barelvi movement issued a fatwa condemning ISIL and similar organisations, saying they are \"not Islamic organisations\". Approximately 1.5 million Sunni Muslim followers of this movement have formally decried violent extremists.\n\nMehdi Hasan, a political journalist in the UK, said in the \"New Statesman\",\n\nHassan Hassan, an analyst at the Delma Institute, wrote in \"The Guardian\" that because the Islamic State \"bases its teachings on religious texts that mainstream Muslim clerics do not want to deal with head on, new recruits leave the camp feeling that they have stumbled on the true message of Islam\". In mid-February 2015, Graeme Wood, a lecturer in political science at Yale University, said in \"The Atlantic\", \"The religion preached by its most ardent followers derives from coherent and even learned interpretations of Islam.\"\n\nYusuf al-Qaradawi, an Egyptian Islamic theologian based in Qatar, said in his official website that the \"United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the leaders of Daesh (ISIS/ISIL) terrorist group are from one species and they are two sides of the same coin\".\n\nThe United Nations Security Council in its Resolution 1267 (1999) described Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaeda associates as operators of a network of terrorist training camps. The UN's Al-Qaida Sanctions Committee first listed ISIL in its Sanctions List under the name \"Al-Qaida in Iraq\" on 18 October 2004, as an entity/group associated with al-Qaeda. On 2 June 2014, the group was added to its listing under the name \"Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant\". The European Union adopted the UN Sanctions List in 2002.\nMany world leaders and government spokespeople have called ISIL a terrorist group or banned it, without their countries having formally designated it as such. The following are examples:\n\nThe Government of Germany banned ISIL in September 2014. Activities banned include donations to the group, recruiting fighters, holding ISIL meetings and distributing its propaganda, flying ISIL flags, wearing ISIL symbols and all ISIL activities. \"The terror organisation Islamic State is a threat to public safety in Germany as well\", said German politician Thomas de Maizière. He added, \"Today's ban is directed solely against terrorists who abuse religion for their criminal goals.\" Being a member of ISIL is also illegal in accordance with § 129a and § 129b of the German criminal code.\n\nIn October 2014, Switzerland banned ISIL's activities in the country, including propaganda and financial support of the fighters, with prison sentences as potential penalties.\n\nIn mid-December 2014, India banned ISIL after the arrest of an operator of a pro-ISIL Twitter account.\n\nPakistan designated ISIL as a banned organisation in late August 2015, under which all elements expressing sympathy for the group would be blacklisted and sanctioned.\n\nMedia sources worldwide have described ISIL as a terrorist organisation.\n\nBy 2014, ISIL was increasingly being viewed as a militia rather than just a terrorist group. As major Iraqi cities fell to ISIL in June 2014, Jessica Lewis, a former US Army intelligence officer at the Institute for the Study of War, described ISIL at that time as\n\nLewis has called ISIL\n\nFormer US Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel saw an \"imminent threat to every interest we have\", but former top counter-terrorism adviser Daniel Benjamin derided such talk as a \"farce\" that panics the public.\n\nFormer British Foreign Secretary David Miliband concluded that the 2003 invasion of Iraq caused the creation of ISIL.\n\nWriting for \"The Guardian\", Pankaj Mishra rejects the idea that the group is a resurgence of medieval Islam, saying instead:\n\nA certain change of attitude occurred following the inauguration of US President Trump. On 28 January 2017, he issued a National Security Presidential Memorandum which called for a comprehensive plan to destroy ISIS to be formulated by the Defense Department within 30 days.\n\nAccording to a June 2015 Reuters report that cited \"jihadist ideologues\" as a source, 90% of ISIL's fighters in Iraq are Iraqi, and 70% of its fighters in Syria are Syrian. The article stated that the group has 40,000 fighters and 60,000 supporters across its two primary strongholds in Iraq and Syria. According to scholar Fawaz Gerges writing in \"ISIS: A History\", some \"30 percent of the senior figures\" in ISIL's military command are former army and police officers from the disbanded Iraqi security forces, drawn to ISIL by the US De-Ba'athification policy and turned towards Sunni Islamism, following the US invasion of Iraq.\n\nAccording to a poll by Pew Research Center, Muslim populations of various countries have overwhelmingly negative views of ISIS with Lebanon having the most unfavorable views. In most of these countries, concerns about Islamic extremism have been growing.\n\nAlthough Saudi Arabia's government rejected the claims, former Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki accused Saudi Arabia of funding ISIL. Some media outlets, such as NBC, the BBC and \"The New York Times\", and the US-based think tank Washington Institute for Near East Policy have written about individual Saudi donations to the group and the Saudi state's decade-long sponsorship of Wahhabism around the world, but have concluded that there is no evidence of direct Saudi state support for ISIL.\n\nRichard Dearlove, former head of Britain's Secret Intelligence Service (MI6), said that the Saudis were \"deeply attracted to any militancy that can effectively challenge Shia-dom [Shia version of Islam].\" Dearlove stated that, \"For ISIS to be able to surge into the Sunni areas of Iraq in the way that it has done recently has to be the consequence of substantial and sustained funding.\"\n\nIn an August 2014 email, leaked by WikiLeaks, apparently from former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to then counselor to Barack Obama John Podesta, a memo states that both Saudi Arabia and Qatar \"are providing clandestine financial and logistic support to ISIL and other radical Sunni groups in the region.\"\n\nDuring the ongoing Syrian Civil War, President Bashar al-Assad, the Syrian Government, and the Syrian Alawite community have been accused by many opposition and anti-Assad parties of collusion with ISIL, despite massacres of Alawite civilians and executions of captured Syrian Army Alawite soldiers.\n\nSeveral Islamist prisoners were released from Syrian prisons at the beginning of the Syrian Civil War in 2011, which many sources have suggested indicates a strategic attempt to strengthen jihadi factions over other rebels, which contributed to forging ISIS.\n\nThe Syrian Government has bought oil directly from ISIL, and the Syrian government and ISIL jointly ran a HESCO gas plant in Tabqah. The facility supplies electricity to government-held areas, and government-run power plants supply ISIL-held areas. A report on 25 June 2015 said that ISIL kept gas flowing to Assad regime-controlled power stations. Furthermore, ISIL allowed grain to pass from the Kurdish-held north-east to regime controlled areas at the cost of a 25% levy.\n\nSeveral sources have said that the Syrian government has tactically avoided ISIL forces in order to weaken opposition such as the Free Syrian Army (FSA), and according to United States Secretary of State John Kerry the Syrian government has purposely ceded territory to ISIL. An IHS Jane's Terrorism and Insurgency Center database analysis confirmed that only 6% of Syrian government forces attacks were targeted at ISIL from January to November 2014, while in the same period only 13% of all ISIL attacks targeted government forces.\n\nThe National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces has stated that the Syrian government has operatives inside ISIL, as has the leadership of Ahrar ash-Sham.\n\nOn 1 June 2015, the United States embassy in Syria stated that the Syrian government was \"making air-strikes in support\" of an ISIL advance on Syrian opposition positions north of Aleppo. The president of the Syrian National Coalition, Khaled Koja, accused Assad of acting \"as an air force for [ISIL]\", with the Defence Minister of the SNC Salim Idris stating that approximately 180 Syrian government officers were serving in ISIL and coordinating the group's attacks with the Syrian Arab Army.\n\nHowever, according to \"The American Conservative\" an April 2017 report by UK security and defense information provider IHS Markit, stated that the Islamic State fought Syrian government forces more than any other opponent between 1 April 2016 and 31 March 2017. According to the report \"43 percent of all Islamic State fighting in Syria was directed against President Assad's forces, 17 against the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and the remaining 40 percent involved fighting rival Sunni opposition groups\".\n\nTurkey has been accused by experts, Syrian Kurds, and United States Vice-President Joe Biden of supporting or colluding with ISIL. A raid by US special forces on a compound housing the Islamic State's \"chief financial officer\", Abu Sayyaf, in July 2015, produced evidence that Turkish officials dealt directly with ranking ISIL members. According to a senior Western official, documents and flash drives seized during the Sayyaf raid revealed links \"so clear\" and \"undeniable\" between Turkey and ISIL \"that they could end up having profound policy implications for the relationship between us and Ankara\".\n\nJournalist Patrick Cockburn wrote in November 2014 of \"strong evidence for a degree of collaboration\" between the Turkish intelligence services and ISIL, although the \"exact nature of the relationship ... remains cloudy\". In July 2014, Cockburn stated that \"Saudi Arabia has created a Frankenstein's monster over which it is rapidly losing control. The same is true of its allies such as Turkey which has been a vital back-base for Isis and Jabhat al-Nusra by keeping the Turkish-Syrian border open.\" David L. Phillips of Columbia University's Institute for the Study of Human Rights, who compiled a list of allegations and claims accusing Turkey of assisting ISIL, wrote that these allegations \"range from military cooperation and weapons transfers to logistical support, financial assistance, and the provision of medical services\". Several ISIL fighters and commanders have claimed that Turkey supports ISIL. Within Turkey itself, ISIL is believed to have caused increasing political polarisation between secularists and Islamists.\n\nTurkey has been further criticised for allowing individuals from outside the region to enter its territory and join ISIL in Syria. With many Islamist fighters passing through Turkey to fight in Syria, Turkey has been accused of becoming a transit country for such fighters and has been labelled the \"Gateway to Jihad\". Turkish border patrol officers are reported to have deliberately overlooked those entering Syria, upon payment of a small bribe. A report by Sky News exposed documents showing that passports of foreign Islamists wanting to join ISIL by crossing into Syria had been stamped by the Turkish government. An ISIL commander stated that \"most of the fighters who joined us in the beginning of the war came via Turkey, and so did our equipment and supplies\", adding that ISIL fighters received treatment in Turkish hospitals.\n\nQatar has long been accused of acting as a conduit for the flow of funds to ISIL. While there is no proof that the Qatari government is behind the movement of funds from the gas-rich nation to ISIL, it has been criticised for not doing enough to stem the flow of financing. Private donors within Qatar, sympathetic to the aims of radical groups such as al-Nusra Front and ISIL, are believed to be channeling their resources to support these organisations. According to the US Treasury Department, a number of terrorist financiers have been operating in Qatar. Qatari citizen Abd Al-Rahman al-Nuaimi has served as an interlocutor between Qatari donors and leaders of al-Qaeda in Iraq (AQI). Nuaimi reportedly oversaw the transfer of US$2 million per month to AQI over a period of time. He is also one of several of Qatar-based al-Qaeda financiers sanctioned by the US Treasury in recent years. According to some reports, US officials believe that the largest portion of private donations supporting ISIS and al Qaeda-linked groups now comes from Qatar rather than Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn August 2014, German minister Gerd Müller accused Qatar of having links to ISIL, stating: \"You have to ask who is arming, who is financing ISIS troops. The keyword there is Qatar.\" Qatari Foreign Minister Khalid bin Mohammad Al Attiyah rejected this statement, saying: \"Qatar does not support extremist groups, including [ISIL], in any way. We are repelled by their views, their violent methods and their ambitions.\"\n\nRand Paul, junior U.S. Senator from Kentucky, has accused the U.S. government of indirectly supporting ISIL in the Syrian Civil War, by arming their allies and fighting their enemies in that country. The US has assisted the moderate Syrian opposition (see CIA-led Timber Sycamore operation), but whether that assistance has been commandeered by ISIS allies remains unclear.\n\nOn 12 September 2014, several media outlets began reporting that the Free Syrian Army had signed a \"non-aggression pact\" with ISIS in order to focus their attentions elsewhere. These reports later proved to be false, as opposition soldiers and activists on the ground reported continued fighting between the two groups. According to Mohammed Alaa Ghanem, director of government relations for the Syrian American Council, \"The only report we have received on anything resembling a ceasefire was that ISIS and Sons of Golan, an FSA brigade outside Damascus, halted fighting for 24 hours to collect bodies before hostilities resumed.\" \"FSA commanders declared that they will continue that fight until ISIS is completely eradicated in Damascus suburbs. No truce or cease fire with ISIS,\" said Syrian National Coalition spokesman Monzer Abkik. That year, 64% of verifiable ISIS attacks in Syria targeted the FSA and other rebels.\n\nA United Nations report showed that 25,000 \"foreign terrorist fighters\" from 100 countries had joined \"Islamist\" groups, many of them working for ISIL or al-Qaeda. The US-trained commander of Tajikistan's Interior Ministry OMON police special forces, Gulmurod Khalimov, has been raised to the rank of \"Minister of War\" within the Islamic State.\n\nThe commander for the Islamic State in Syria, Abu Omar al-Shishani, served previously as a sergeant in the Georgian Army.\n\nA 2015 report by the Program on Extremism at George Washington University found 71 individuals charged in the United States with supporting ISIL, 250 travelling or attempting to travel to Syria or Iraq from the United States to join ISIL, and about 900 active domestic ISIL-related investigations.\n\nAn October 2016 World Bank study found that \"ISIL's foreign fighters are surprisingly well-educated.\" Using the fighters' self-reported educational levels, the study concluded that \"69% of recruits reported at least a secondary-level education\" of which \"a large fraction have gone on to study at university\" and also that \"only 15% of recruits left school before high school; less than 2% are illiterate.\" The study also found that foreign fighters are often more educated than their countrymen where those \"from Europe and in Central Asia have similar levels of education to their countrymen\" while those \"from the Middle East, North Africa, and South and East Asia are significantly more educated than what is typical in their home nations.\" The report notes that its conclusions that terrorism is not driven by poverty and low levels of education which conforms with previous research. However, the report did find a strong correlation \"between a country's male unemployment rate and the propensity of the country to supply foreign fighters\".\n\nIn August 2018 Australia stripped the Australian citizenship from five terrorists who had travelled to fight with the Islamic State and barred them from entering Australia again. This was only possible because they had double citizenships because international law stops the measure from being used on individuals with only one citizenship. The five brought the total to six.\n\nUp to 2018, an estimated 450 individuals had travelled from Belgium to join the civil war in Syria and Iraq. Of those, 75 were linked to the Sharia4Belgium network. In July 2018, courts announced that Belgium had no obligation to bring children of Islamic State members to Belgium.\n\nIn November 2017 stripped a Turkish man of his Danish citizenship after having been sentenced for terror offenses related to the Islamic State, which left him with a citizenship of Turkey.\n\nUp to 2018, an estimated 1700 individuals had travelled from France to join the civil war in Syria and Iraq.\n\nUp to 2018, an estimated 940 individuals had travelled from Germany to join the civil war in Syria and Iraq.\n\nThe Parliament of Netherlands voted in 2016 for legislation to strip Dutch citizens who join ISIS or al Qaeda abroad of their citizenship, also if they have not been convicted of any crime. The law can only be applied to individuals with double citizenship. Justice Minister Ard Van der Steur stated the legal changes were necessary to stop jihadists from returning to the Netherlands. In September 2017, four jihadists were stripped of their citizenship.\n\nIn the 2012-November 2018 period, above 310 individuals had travelled from the Netherlands to the conflict in Syria and Iraq. Of those 85 had been killed and 55 returned to the Netherlands. Of the surviving Dutch foreign fighters in the region, 135 are fighers in the conflict zone and three quarters are members of ISIS. The remaining quarter have joined Al-Qaeda affiliated groups such as Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham or Tanzim Hurras al-Deen.\n\nUp to 2018, an estimated 300 individuals had travelled from Sweden to join the civil war in Syria. In March 2018 Kurdish authorities reported they had captured 41 IS supporters with either Swedish citizenship or residence permit in Sweden, of which 5 had key positions in the organisation and one was the head of the ISIL propaganda efforts.\n\nCabinet minister William Hague stated in 2014 that up to 400 UK citizens had joined ISIL. The government instituted a practice where if those who had joined had double citizenships were stripped of their UK citizenship to prevent them from arriving back in the UK. By 2017, 150 individuals had been stripped of citizenship and were thus unable to enter the United Kingdom again.\n\nThe Terrorism Research and Analysis Consortium (TRAC) has identified 60 jihadist groups in 30 countries that have pledged allegiance to or support for ISIL as of mid-November 2014. That many of these groups were previously affiliated with al-Qaeda suggests a shift in global jihadist leadership towards ISIL.\n\nMembers of the following groups have declared support for ISIL, either fully or in part:\n\nISIL's claims to territory have brought it into armed conflict with many governments, militias and other armed groups. International rejection of ISIL as a terrorist entity and rejection of its claim to even exist have placed it in conflict with countries around the world.\n\nThe Global Coalition to Counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), also referred to as the Counter-ISIL Coalition or Counter-DAESH Coalition, is a US-led group of nations and non-state actors that have committed to \"work together under a common, multifaceted, and long-term strategy to degrade and defeat ISIL/Daesh\". According to a joint statement issued by 59 national governments and the European Union on 3 December 2014, participants in the Counter-ISIL Coalition are focused on multiple lines of effort:\n\n\nOperation Inherent Resolve is the operational name given by the US to military operations against ISIL and Syrian al-Qaeda affiliates.\nCombined Joint Task Force – Operation Inherent Resolve (CJTF–OIR) is co-ordinating the military portion of the response.\n\nThe Arab League, European Union, NATO, and GCC are part of the Counter-ISIL Coalition:\n\nAccording to the UK-based monitoring group \"Airwars\", the air strikes and artillery of US-led coalition killed as many as 6,000 civilians in Iraq and Syria in 2017.\n\nIran – military advisors, training, ground troops, and air power in Iraq and Syria, beside Iranian borders (\"see Iranian intervention in Iraq\")\nRussia – arms supplier to Iraqi and Syrian governments. In June 2014, the Iraqi army received Russian Sukhoi Su-25 and Sukhoi Su-30 fighter aircraft to combat the ISIL. Security operations within state borders in 2015. Airstrikes in Syria (see Russian military intervention in the Syrian Civil War).\n\nAzerbaijan – security operations within state borders\n\nPakistan – Military deployment over Saudi Arabia-Iraq border. Arresting ISIL figures in Pakistan.\n\nYemen (Supreme Political Council)\n\n Taliban\n\n Hamas\n\n—Shia faction in Yemen, fighting for control of the country\n\nAl-Nusra Front is a branch of al-Qaeda operating in Syria. Al-Nusra has launched many attacks and bombings, mostly against targets affiliated with or supportive of the Syrian government. There have been media reports that many of al-Nusra's foreign fighters have left to join al-Baghdadi's ISIL.\n\nIn February 2014, after continued tensions, al-Qaeda publicly disavowed any relations with ISIL. However, ISIL and al-Nusra Front still cooperate with each other occasionally when they fight against the Syrian government.\n\nOn 10 September 2015, an audio message was released by al-Qaeda's leader Ayman al-Zawahiri criticising ISIL's self-proclaimed caliphate and accusing it of \"sedition\". This was described by some media outlets as a \"declaration of war\". However, although al-Zawahiri denied ISIL's legitimacy, he suggested that there was still room for cooperation against common enemies, and said that if he were in Iraq, he would fight alongside ISIL.\n\nIn July 2014, the BBC reported the United Nations' chief investigator as stating: \"Fighters from the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) may be added to a list of war crimes suspects in Syria.\" By June 2014, according to United Nations reports, ISIL had killed hundreds of prisoners of war and over 1,000 civilians.\n\nIn November 2014, the UN Commission of Inquiry on Syria said that ISIL was committing crimes against humanity. A report by Human Rights Watch in November 2014 accused ISIL groups in control of Derna, Libya of war crimes and human rights abuses and of terrorising residents. Human Rights Watch documented three apparent summary executions and at least ten public floggings by the Islamic Youth Shura Council, which joined ISIL in November. It also documented the beheading of three Derna residents and dozens of seemingly politically motivated assassinations of judges, public officials, members of the security forces and others. Sarah Leah Watson, Director of HRW Middle East and North Africa, said: \"Commanders should understand that they may face domestic or international prosecution for the grave rights abuses their forces are committing.\"\n\nSpeaking of ISIL's methods, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights has stated that the group \"seeks to subjugate civilians under its control and dominate every aspect of their lives through terror, indoctrination, and the provision of services to those who obey\".\n\nISIL compels people in the areas that it controls to live according to its interpretation of sharia law. There have been many reports of the group's use of death threats, torture and mutilation to compel conversion to Islam, and of clerics being killed for refusal to pledge allegiance to the so-called \"Islamic State\". ISIL directs violence against Shia Muslims, Alawites, Assyrian, Chaldean, Syriac and Armenian Christians, Yazidis, Druze, Shabaks and Mandeans in particular.\n\nISIL fighters are targeting Syria's minority Alawite sect. The Islamic State and affiliated jihadist groups reportedly took the lead in an offensive on Alawite villages in Latakia Governorate of Syria in August 2013.\n\nAmnesty International has held ISIL responsible for the ethnic cleansing of ethnic and religious minority groups in northern Iraq on a \"historic scale\", putting entire communities \"at risk of being wiped off the map of Iraq\". In a special report released on 2 September 2014, the organization described how ISIL had \"systematically targeted non-Arab and non-Sunni Muslim communities, killing or abducting hundreds, possibly thousands, of individuals and forcing more than 830,000 others to flee the areas it has captured since 10 June 2014\". Among these people were Assyrian Christians, Turkmen Shia, Shabak Shia, Kaka'i, Yazidis and Sabean Mandeans, who have lived together for centuries in Nineveh province, large parts of which have come under ISIL's control.\n\nAmong the known killings of religious and minority group civilians carried out by ISIL are those in the villages and towns of Quiniyeh (70–90 Yazidis killed), Hardan (60 Yazidis killed), Sinjar (500–2,000 Yazidis killed), Ramadi Jabal (60–70 Yazidis killed), Dhola (50 Yazidis killed), Khana Sor (100 Yazidis killed), Hardan (250–300 Yazidis killed), al-Shimal (dozens of Yazidis killed), Khocho (400 Yazidis killed and 1,000 abducted), Jadala (14 Yazidis killed)<ref name=\"OHRCHR/UNAMI\"></ref> and Beshir (700 Shia Turkmen killed), and others committed near Mosul (670 Shia inmates of the Badush prison killed), and in Tal Afar prison, Iraq (200 Yazidis killed for refusing conversion). The UN estimated that 5,000 Yazidis were killed by ISIL during the takeover of parts of northern Iraq in August 2014. In late May 2014, 150 Kurdish boys from Kobani aged 14–16 were abducted and subjected to torture and abuse, according to Human Rights Watch. In the Syrian towns of Ghraneij, Abu Haman and Kashkiyeh 700 members of the Sunni Al-Shaitat tribe were killed for attempting an uprising against ISIL control. The UN reported that in June 2014 ISIL had killed a number of Sunni Islamic clerics who refused to pledge allegiance to it.\n\nChristians living in areas under ISIL control face four options: converting to Islam, paying a religious levy called the jizya, leaving the \"Caliphate\", or death. \"We offer them three choices: Islam; the dhimma contract – involving payment of jizya; if they refuse this they will have nothing but the sword\", ISIL said. ISIL leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi further noted that Christians who do not agree with those terms must \"leave the borders of the Islamic Caliphate\" within a specified deadline. ISIL had already set similar rules for Christians in Raqqa, once one of Syria's more liberal cities. However, on 29 March 2016, ISIL issued a decree preventing Christians and Armenians from leaving Raqqa.\n\nOn 23 February 2015, in response to a major Kurdish offensive in the Al-Hasakah Governorate, ISIL abducted 150 Assyrian Christians from villages near Tal Tamr (Tell Tamer) in northeastern Syria, after launching a large offensive in the region.\n\nKurdish officials have claimed that ISIL's campaign against Kurdish and Yezidi enclaves, such as Sinjar, are part of an organised Arabization plan.\n\nDuring the Iraqi conflict in 2014, ISIL released dozens of videos showing its ill treatment of civilians, many of whom had apparently been targeted on the basis of their religion or ethnicity. Navi Pillay, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, warned of war crimes being committed in the Iraqi war zone, and disclosed a UN report of ISIL militants murdering Iraqi Army soldiers and 17 civilians in a single street in Mosul. The UN reported that in the 17 days from 5 to 22 June, ISIL killed more than 1,000 Iraqi civilians and injured more than 1,000. After ISIL released photographs of its fighters shooting scores of young men, the UN declared that cold-blooded \"executions\" by militants in northern Iraq almost certainly amounted to war crimes.\n\nISIL's advance in Iraq in mid-2014 was accompanied by continuing violence in Syria. On 29 May, ISIL raided a village in Syria and at least 15 civilians were killed, including, according to Human Rights Watch, at least six children. A hospital in the area confirmed that it had received 15 bodies on the same day. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported that on 1 June, a 102-year-old man was killed along with his whole family in a village in Hama province. According to Reuters, 1,878 people were killed in Syria by ISIL during the last six months of 2014, most of them civilians.\n\nIn Mosul, ISIL has implemented a sharia school curriculum which bans the teaching of art, music, national history, literature and Christianity. Although Charles Darwin's theory of evolution has never been taught in Iraqi schools, the subject has been banned from the school curriculum. Patriotic songs have been declared blasphemous, and orders have been given to remove certain pictures from school textbooks. Iraqi parents have largely boycotted schools in which the new curriculum has been introduced.\n\nAfter capturing cities in Iraq, ISIL issued guidelines on how to wear clothes and veils. ISIL warned women in the city of Mosul to wear full-face veils or face severe punishment. A cleric told Reuters in Mosul that ISIL gunmen had ordered him to read out the warning in his mosque when worshippers gathered. ISIL ordered the faces of both male and female mannequins to be covered, in an order which also banned the use of naked mannequins. In Raqqa the group uses its two battalions of female fighters in the city to enforce compliance by women with its strict laws on individual conduct.\n\nISIL released 16 notes labelled \"Contract of the City\", a set of rules aimed at civilians in Nineveh. One rule stipulated that women should stay at home and not go outside unless necessary. Another rule said that stealing would be punished by amputation. In addition to the Muslim custom of banning the sale and use of alcohol, ISIL has banned the sale and use of cigarettes and hookah pipes. It has also banned \"music and songs in cars, at parties, in shops and in public, as well as photographs of people in shop windows\".\n\nAccording to \"The Economist\", Saudi practices also followed by the group include the establishment of religious police to root out \"vice\" and enforce attendance at salat prayers, the widespread use of capital punishment, and the destruction of Christian churches and non-Sunni mosques or their conversion to other uses.\n\nISIL carried out executions on both men and women who were accused of various acts and found guilty of crimes against Islam such as sodomy, adultery, usage and possession of contraband, rape, blasphemy, witchcraft, renouncing Islam and murder. Before the accused are executed their charges are read to them and the spectators. Executions take various forms, including stoning to death, crucifixions, beheadings, burning people alive, and throwing people from tall buildings. The Islamic State in Iraq frequently carries out mass executions in Mosul and Hawija.\n\nThe Islamic State militants were accused of using civilian residents of towns as human shields. The \"Telegraph\" reported that \"Extremist fighters are deliberately hiding among civilian buildings and residents to try to prevent strikes.\" Civil rights activist told ARA News that \"ISIS militants prevent the people of Manbij and Jarablus from leaving their hometowns despite the fierce airstrikes by Russian warplanes\". The use of human shields and executions of civilians who tried to flee continued in Iraq right through until the group lost is final major urban territory there after its defeat in the Battle for Mosul in July 2017.\n\nAccording to a report by the magazine \"Foreign Policy\", children as young as six are recruited or kidnapped and sent to military and religious training camps, where they practice beheading with dolls and are indoctrinated with the religious views of ISIL. Children are used as human shields on front lines and to provide blood transfusions for Islamic State soldiers, according to Shelly Whitman of the Roméo Dallaire Child Soldiers Initiative. The second instalment of a Vice News documentary about ISIL focused on how the group is specifically grooming children for the future. A spokesman told VICE News that those under the age of 15 go to sharia camp to learn about religion, while those older than 16 can go to military training camp. Children are also used for propaganda. According to a UN report, \"In mid-August, ISIL entered a cancer hospital in Mosul, forced at least two sick children to hold the ISIL flag and posted the pictures on the internet.\" Misty Buswell, a Save the Children representative working with refugees in Jordan, said, \"It's not an exaggeration to say we could lose a whole generation of children to trauma.\" A UN report indicated that at least 89 children, mostly from the ages of 12 to 16 had been killed fighting for the Islamic State in 2015, 39% of which died in suicide bombing attacks. Der Spiegel estimated in 2016 that 1,500 boys were serving as child soldiers for ISIL. It was reported that on 12 March 2017, ISIS used 6 child suicide bombers against the Syrian Army soldiers besieged in Deir Ez-zor.\n\nSexual violence perpetrated by ISIL includes using rape as a weapon of war; instituting forced marriages to its fighters; and trading women and girls as sex slaves.\n\nThere are many reports of sexual abuse and enslavement in ISIL-controlled areas of women and girls, predominantly from the minority Christian and Yazidi communities. Fighters are told that they are free to have sex with or rape non-Muslim captive women. Haleh Esfandiari from the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars has highlighted the abuse of local women by ISIL militants after they have captured an area. \"They usually take the older women to a makeshift slave market and try to sell them. The younger girls ... are raped or married off to fighters\", she said, adding, \"It's based on temporary marriages, and once these fighters have had sex with these young girls, they just pass them on to other fighters.\"\n\nThe capture of Iraqi cities by the group in June 2014 was accompanied by an upsurge in crimes against women, including kidnap and rape. According to Martin Williams in \"The Citizen\", some hard-line Salafists apparently regard extramarital sex with multiple partners as a legitimate form of holy war and it is \"difficult to reconcile this with a religion where some adherents insist that women must be covered from head to toe, with only a narrow slit for the eyes\".\n\n, the trade in sex slaves appeared to remain restricted to Yazidi women and girls. It has reportedly become a recruiting technique to attract men from conservative Muslim societies, where dating and casual sex are not allowed. Nazand Begikhani said of the Yazidi victims, \"These women have been treated like cattle ... They have been subjected to physical and sexual violence, including systematic rape and sex slavery. They've been exposed in markets in Mosul and in Raqqa, Syria, carrying price tags.\" According to UN Reports the price list for IS sex slaves range from 40 to 160 US dollars. The younger the slave the more expensive. Girls and boys between the age 1–9 are referred to as the most expensive, with the cheapest being women between 40 and 50 years old. According to another source the price of a slave equals the price of an AK-47.\n\nA United Nations report issued on 2 October 2014, based on 500 interviews with witnesses, said that ISIL took 450–500 women and girls to Iraq's Nineveh region in August, where \"150 unmarried girls and women, predominantly from the Yazidi and Christian communities, were reportedly transported to Syria, either to be given to ISIL fighters as a reward or to be sold as sex slaves\". In mid-October, the UN confirmed that 5,000–7,000 Yazidi women and children had been abducted by ISIL and sold into slavery. In November 2014 \"The New York Times\" reported on the accounts given by five who escaped ISIL of their captivity and abuse. In December 2014, the Iraqi Ministry of Human Rights announced that ISIL had killed over 150 women and girls in Fallujah who refused to participate in sexual jihad. Non-Muslim women have reportedly been married off to fighters against their will. ISIL claims the women provide the new converts and children necessary to spread ISIL's control.\n\nShortly after the death of US hostage Kayla Mueller was confirmed on 10 February 2015, several media outlets reported that the US intelligence community believed she may have been given as a wife to an ISIL fighter. In August 2015 it was confirmed that she had been forced into marriage to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who raped her repeatedly. The Mueller family was informed by the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) that Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi had sexually abused Ms. Mueller, and that Ms. Mueller had also been tortured. Abu Sayyaf's widow, Umm Sayyaf, confirmed that it was her husband who had been Mueller's primary abuser.\n\nIn its digital magazine \"Dabiq\", ISIL explicitly claimed religious justification for enslaving Yazidi women. According to \"The Wall Street Journal\", ISIL appeals to apocalyptic beliefs and claims \"justification by a Hadith that they interpret as portraying the revival of slavery as a precursor to the end of the world\". ISIL appeals to the hadith and Quran when claiming the right to enslave and rape captive non-Muslim women. According to \"Dabiq,\" \"enslaving the families of the kuffar and taking their women as concubines is a firmly established aspect of the Sharia's that if one were to deny or mock, he would be denying or mocking the verses of the Quran and the narration of the Prophet ... and thereby apostatizing from Islam.\" Captured Yazidi women and children are divided among the fighters who captured them, with one-fifth taken as a tax. ISIL has received widespread criticism from Muslim scholars and others in the Muslim world for using part of the Quran to derive a ruling in isolation, rather than considering the entire Quran and hadith. According to Mona Siddiqui, ISIL's \"narrative may well be wrapped up in the familiar language of jihad and 'fighting in the cause of Allah', but it amounts to little more than destruction of anything and anyone who doesn't agree with them\"; she describes ISIL as reflecting a \"lethal mix of violence and sexual power\" and a \"deeply flawed view of manhood\". \"Dabiq\" describes \"this large-scale enslavement\" of non-Muslims as \"probably the first since the abandonment of Shariah law\".\n\nIn late 2014, ISIL released a pamphlet that focused on the treatment of female slaves. It claims that the Quran allows fighters to have sex with captives, including adolescent girls, and to beat slaves as discipline. The pamphlet's guidelines also allow fighters to trade slaves, including for sex, as long as they have not been impregnated by their owners. Charlie Winter, a researcher at the counter-extremist think tank Quilliam, described the pamphlet as \"abhorrent\". In response to this document Abbas Barzegar, a religion professor at Georgia State University, said Muslims around the world find ISIL's \"alien interpretation of Islam grotesque and abhorrent\".<ref name=\"Botelho – 12/12/2014\"></ref> Muslim leaders and scholars from around the world have rejected the validity of ISIL's claims, claiming that the reintroduction of slavery is un-Islamic, that they are required to protect \"People of the Scripture\" including Christians, Jews, Muslims and Yazidis, and that ISIL's fatwas are invalid due to their lack of religious authority and the fatwas' inconsistency with Islam.\n\n\"The Independent\" reported in 2015 that the usage of Yazidi sex slaves had created ongoing friction among fighters within ISIL. Sajad Jiyad, a Research Fellow and Associate Member at the Iraqi Institute for Economic Reform, told the newspaper that many ISIL supporters and fighters had been in denial about the trafficking of kidnapped Yazidi women until a \"Dabiq\" article justifying the practice was published. \"The New York Times\" said in August 2015 that \"[t]he systematic rape of women and girls from the Yazidi religious minority has become deeply enmeshed in the organization and the radical theology of the Islamic State in the year since the group announced it was reviving slavery as an institution.\" The article claims that ISIL is not merely exonerating but sacralising rape, and illustrated this with the testimony of escapees. One 15-year-old victim said that, while she was being assaulted, her rapist \"kept telling me this is ibadah\"; a 12-year-old victim related how her assailant claimed that, \"by raping me, he is drawing closer to God\"; and one adult prisoner told how, when she challenged her captor about repeatedly raping a 12 year old, she was met with the retort, \"No, she's not a little girl, she's a slave and she knows exactly how to have sex and having sex with her pleases God.\"\n\nIn July 2016 it was reported by an AP investigation that ISIL was using mobile apps like Telegram to sell their sex slaves and identify the slaves of other ISIL members at checkpoints. In 2016, the Commission for International Justice and Accountability said they had identified 34 senior ISIL members who were instrumental in the systematic sex slave trade and planned to prosecute them after the end of hostilities.\n\nThe Committee to Protect Journalists states: \"Without a free press, few other human rights are attainable.\" ISIL has tortured and murdered local journalists, creating what Reporters Without Borders calls \"news blackholes\" in areas controlled by ISIL. ISIL fighters have reportedly been given written directions to kill or capture journalists.\n\nIn December 2013, two suicide bombers stormed the headquarters of TV station Salaheddin and killed five journalists, after accusing the station of \"distorting the image of Iraq's Sunni community\". Reporters Without Borders reported that on 7 September 2014, ISIL seized and on 11 October publicly beheaded Raad al-Azzawi, a TV Salaheddin cameraman from the village of Samra, east of Tikrit. , according to the Journalistic Freedoms Observatory, ISIL is holding nine journalists and has nine others under close observation in Mosul and Salahuddin province.\n\nDuring 2013 and part of 2014, an ISIL unit nicknamed the Beatles acquired and held 12 Western journalists hostage, along with aid workers and other foreign hostages, totalling 23 or 24 known hostages. A Polish journalist Marcin Suder was captured in July 2013 but escaped four months later. The unit executed American journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff and released beheading videos. Eight of the other journalists were released for ransom: Danish journalist Daniel Rye Ottosen, French journalists Didier François, Edouard Elias, Nicolas Hénin, and Pierre Torres, and Spanish journalists Marc Marginedas, Javier Espinosa, and Ricardo García Vilanova. The unit continues to hold hostage British journalist John Cantlie and a female aid worker.\n\nCyber-security group the Citizen Lab released a report finding a possible link between ISIL and a digital attack on the Syrian citizen media group Raqqa Is Being Slaughtered Silently (RSS). Supporters of the media group received an emailed link to an image of supposed airstrikes, but clicking on the link introduced malware to the user's computer that sends details of the user's IP address and system each time it restarts. That information has been enough to allow ISIL to locate RSS supporters. \"The group has been targeted for kidnappings, house raids, and at least one alleged targeted killing. At the time of that writing, ISIL was allegedly holding several citizen journalists in Raqqa\", according to the Citizen Lab report.\n\nOn 8 January 2015, ISIL members in Libya claimed to have executed Tunisian journalists Sofiene Chourabi and Nadhir Ktari who disappeared in September 2014. Also in January 2015, Japanese journalist Kenji Goto was kidnapped and beheaded, after a demand for a $200 million ransom payment was not met.\n\nAn unknown number of Syrians and Iraqis, several Lebanese soldiers, male and female Kurdish fighters near Kobanî, two American journalists, one American and two British aid workers, 30 Ethiopian Christians and 21 Egyptian Coptic Christians in Libya have been beheaded by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. ISIL uses beheadings to intimidate local populations and has released a series of propaganda videos aimed at Western countries.\nISIL was reported to have beheaded about 100 foreign fighters as deserters who tried to leave Raqqa.\n\nThey also engage in public and mass executions of Syrian and Iraqi soldiers and civilians, sometimes forcing prisoners to dig their own graves before shooting lines of prisoners and pushing them in. Among the known mass executions of captured soldiers carried out by ISIL are those in Tikrit (ISIS executed up to 1,700 Shia Iraqi Air Force cadets from Camp Speicher near Tikrit on 12 June 2014), Al-Thawrah (ISIS executed 250 Syrian soldiers captured at the Al-Tabqa air base between 27 and 28 August 2014), Palmyra (up to 280 Syrian soldiers and government loyalists were shot in the head or beheaded in a public square on 22 May 2015), and Deir ez-Zor (ISIS killed at least 300 Syrian soldiers, pro-government militiamen and their families on 16 January 2016).\n\nISIS executed 600 Shia prisoners in Mosul in June 2014. In November 2014, there were reports that ISIS fighters massacred more than 630 members of the Albu Nimr tribe in Iraq. Albu Nimr was one of the Sunni Arab tribes that fiercely opposed the Islamic State. On 17 December 2014, it was reported by Turkish media, that the ISIS had executed at least 150 women from the Albu Nimr tribe in Falluja for refusing to marry ISIS militants.\n\nKurds in northern Iraq reported being attacked by ISIS with chemical weapons in August 2015, which was later confirmed to be mustard gas. At Kobanî, it is highly likely that ISIS used chlorine gas. These chemical weapons may be from a chemical weapons storage site at Al-Muthanna, which contained 2,500 chemical rockets. Although the rockets' chemical contents were deteriorated, ISIS may have used them in a concentrated manner.\n\nUNESCO's Director-General Irina Bokova has warned that ISIL is destroying Iraq's cultural heritage, in what she has called \"cultural cleansing\". \"We don't have time to lose because extremists are trying to erase the identity, because they know that if there is no identity, there is no memory, there is no history\", she said. Referring to the ancient cultures of Christians, Yazidis and other minorities, she said, \"This is a way to destroy identity. You deprive them of their culture, you deprive them of their history, their heritage, and that is why it goes hand in hand with genocide. Along with the physical persecution they want to eliminate – to delete – the memory of these different cultures ... we think this is appalling, and this is not acceptable.\" Saad Eskander, head of Iraq's National Archives said, \"For the first time you have cultural cleansing... For the Yazidis, religion is oral, nothing is written. By destroying their places of worship... you are killing cultural memory. It is the same with the Christians – it really is a threat beyond belief.\"\n\nTo finance its activities, ISIL is stealing artefacts from Syria and Iraq and sending them to Europe to be sold. UNESCO has asked for United Nations Security Council controls on the sale of antiquities, similar to those imposed after the 2003 Iraq War. UNESCO is working with Interpol, national customs authorities, museums, and major auction houses in attempts to prevent looted items from being sold. ISIL occupied Mosul Museum, the second most important museum in Iraq, as it was about to reopen after years of rebuilding following the Iraq War, saying that the statues were against Islam and threatening to destroy the museum's contents.\n\nISIL considers worshipping at graves tantamount to idolatry, and seeks to purify the community of unbelievers. It has used bulldozers to crush buildings and archaeological sites. Bernard Haykel has described al-Baghdadi's creed as \"a kind of untamed Wahhabism\", saying, \"For Al Qaeda, violence is a means to an ends; for ISIS, it is an end in itself\". The destruction by ISIL in July 2014 of the tomb and shrine of the prophet Yunus – Jonah in Christianity – the 13th-century mosque of Imam Yahya Abu al-Qassimin, the 14th-century shrine of prophet Jerjis – St George to Christians – and the attempted destruction of the Hadba minaret at the 12th-century Great Mosque of Al-Nuri have been described as \"an unchecked outburst of extreme Wahhabism\". \"There were explosions that destroyed buildings dating back to the Assyrian era\", said National Museum of Iraq director Qais Rashid, referring to the destruction of the shrine of Yunus. He cited another case where \"Daesh (ISIL) gathered over 1,500 manuscripts from convents and other holy places and burnt all of them in the middle of the city square\". In March 2015, ISIL reportedly bulldozed the 13th-century BC Assyrian city of Nimrud, believing its sculptures to be idolatrous. UNESCO head, Irina Bokova, deemed this to be a war crime.\n\nISIL has burned or stolen collections of books and papers from the various locations including the Central Library of Mosul (which they rigged with explosives and burned down), the library at the University of Mosul, a Sunni Muslim library, a 265-year-old Latin Church and Monastery of the Dominican Fathers, and the Mosul Museum Library. Some destroyed or stolen works date back to 5000 BCE and include \"Iraq newspapers dating to the early 20th century, maps and books from the Ottoman Empire, and book collections contributed by about 100 of Mosul's establishment families.\" The stated goal is to destroy all non-Islamic books.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1127940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1127940", "title": "Isoschizomer", "text": "Isoschizomer\n\nIsoschizomers are pairs of restriction enzymes specific to the same recognition sequence. For example, SphI (CGTAC/G) and BbuI (CGTAC/G) are isoschizomers of each other. The first enzyme discovered which recognizes a given sequence is known as the prototype; all subsequently identified enzymes that recognize that sequence are isoschizomers. Isoschizomers are isolated from different strains of bacteria and therefore may require different reaction conditions.\n\nAn enzyme that recognizes the same sequence but cuts it differently is a neoschizomer. Neoschizomers are a specific type (subset) of isoschizomer. For example, SmaI (CCC/GGG) and XmaI (C/CCGGG) are neoschizomers of each other. Similarly Kpn1 (GGTAC/C) and Acc651 (G/GTACC) are neoschizomers of each other. \nAn enzyme that recognizes a slightly different sequence, but produces the same ends is an isocaudomer.\n\nIn some cases, only one out of a pair of isoschizomers can recognize both the methylated as well as unmethylated forms of restriction sites. In contrast, the other restriction enzyme can recognize only the unmethylated form of the restriction site.\nThis property of some isoschizomers allows identification of methylation state of the restriction site while isolating it from a bacterial strain.\nFor example, the restriction enzymes HpaII and MspI are isoschizomers, as they both recognize the sequence 5'-CCGG-3' when it is unmethylated. But when the second C of the sequence is methylated, only MspI can recognize it while HpaII cannot.\n\n"}
{"id": "9978536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9978536", "title": "Italian submarine Barbarigo", "text": "Italian submarine Barbarigo\n\nBarbarigo was a World War II Italian . It was built by the Cantieri Riuniti dell'Adriatico, and was commissioned on 19 September 1938.\n\nAfter early peacetime training activity, and two fruitless missions in the Mediterranean Sea, the \"Barbarigo\" was assigned to the Atlantic theater, reaching its base in Bordeaux on 8 September 1940, after an unsuccessful patrol.\n\nFrom October 1940 to May 1941, she went on three missions around Irish waters, which obtained only the damaging of a merchantman. In July, she sailed to the west of the Strait of Gibraltar and obtained its first successes, sinking the British ship \"Macon\" (5135 tls) on 25 July, and then the oiler \"Horn Shell\" (8272 tls), before turning for port. On 22 October, \"Barbarigo\" sailed again, under the command of \"Capitano di Corvetta\" Enzo Grossi, but the patrol was unsuccessful. On the next patrol, the submarine met a lighted ship, but Grossi torpedoed and sank her nonetheless (it was the neutral Spanish ship \"Navemar\"), on 23 January 1941.\n\nAfterwards, \"Barbarigo\" was sent to Brazilian waters, departing Bordeaux on 30 April. She was responsible for the first Brazilian war action of World War II; she attacked the Brazilian merchant ship \"Comandante Lyra\" on 18 May 1942, without sinking her, and she was chased by Brazilian aero-naval forces for five days. The submarine managed to escape two attacks by Brazilian B-25 aircraft.\n\nOn 20 May, the \"Barbarigo\" met the cruiser and the destroyer ; wrongly recognizing the former as a , Grossi fired two torpedoes at the cruiser. With himself and his crew convinced to having seen and felt the battleship being struck and sinking, \"Barbarigo\" sailed away, while the American ships had not even been aware of the attack. Grossi reported his sinking, and, despite the doubts and misgivings of BETASOM commander Romolo Polacchini, the action was widely publicized on Italian and German press; Grossi was awarded with a Gold Medal of Military Valour and promoted to \"Capitano di Fregata\" (Commander). On its way home, \"Barbarigo\" attacked and sank the ship \"Charlbury\" (4836 tls), 28 May.\n\nOn 29 August, the submarine sailed again, this time for a mission around the African coast. On the night of 6 October, \"Barbarigo\" met the corvette , and Grossi \"recognized\" her as a ; he fired four torpedoes, and again he was convinced he had successfully sunk the enemy battleship, while \"Petunia\" had escaped unharmed. \"Barbarigo\" returned to port on the night of 29 October. Again, Grossi's success was widely reported, and he was promoted to \"Capitano di Vascello\" (Captain) and awarded a second Gold Medal; he left the submarine to replace Polacchini as BETASOM commander. After the war, Grossi's actions would be the object of two enquiries in 1949 and 1962, which concluded that he and his crew had been in good faith, but stripped him of his promotions and awards.\n\nOn 24 January 1943, the submarine departed for its last mission as an attack submarine, in which it sunk the ships \"Monte Igueldo\" (3453 tls) on 24 February, \"Alfonso Pena\" (3540 tls) on 2 March, and \"Staghound\" on 3 March, before returning to Bordeaux on 3 April.\n\nAfter a period of time for repairs, as well as some replacements and retraining of crew, the submarine was converted into a transport to carry materiel between Germany and Japan in 1943, with guns, torpedoes and all but one periscope being removed; it departed Bordeaux on 16 June, with 130 tons of valuable load, but disappeared. After the war, British records showed that an unidentified submarine had been attacked and presumed sunk between 17 and 19 June, in the area where \"Barbarigo\" might have been.\n\n"}
{"id": "2989649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2989649", "title": "Japanese submarine I-26", "text": "Japanese submarine I-26\n\nI-26 was a Japanese B1 type submarine which saw service in the Imperial Japanese Navy during World War II. She was completed and commissioned at the Kure Dockyard on 6 November 1941, under the command of Commander Yokota Minoru.\n\nOn 7 December 1941, \"I-26\" sank the 2140-ton U.S. Army chartered lumber freighter \"Cynthia Olson\" off the coast of California — the first American merchant ship to be sunk by a Japanese submarine in the war. \"I-26\" had orders not to commence hostilities until 0330 8 December (Tokyo time) -- the anticipated time of the attack on Pearl Harbor. \"I-26\" found \"Cynthia Olson\" prior to that time, but remained submerged until surfacing near the freighter at 0330 Tokyo time (0800 7 December Hawaiian time or 0900 in the +9 time zone of the sinking.) \"I-26\" fired a warning shell over \"Cynthia Olson\" from its 14-cm deck gun. \"Cynthia Olson\" stopped and radioed they were being attacked by a submarine. \"I-26\" sunk \"Cynthia Olson\" by gunfire after the crew abandoned ship in lifeboats. The steamship \"Lurline\" heard the radio message from \"Cynthia Olson\", but the crew of the sunken ship perished at sea while attention was focused on the simultaneous bombing of Pearl Harbor.\n\nAfter searching unsuccessfully for the aircraft carrier following the attack on Pearl Harbor, \"I-26\" patrolled off the entrance to the Strait of Juan de Fuca. A scheduled bombardment of American coastal cities on Christmas eve of 1941 was canceled because of the frequency of coastal air and surface patrols. \"I-26\" was in Yokosuka drydock number 5 on 18 April 1942 when one of the Doolittle Raid B-25 Mitchell bombers damaged the carrier in the adjacent drydock number 4.\n\nOn Sunday 7 June 1942 the 3286-ton freighter \"Coast Trader\" departed Port Angeles, Washington bound for San Francisco with a cargo of newsprint. \"I-26\" torpedoed \"Coast Trader\" as it left the Strait of Juan de Fuca that afternoon, and the ship sank in 40 minutes. One crewman died of exposure before the remainder were rescued over the following two days. The United States Navy apparently did not want to acknowledge Japanese submarine activity off the Pacific Coast during the Second Happy Time and officially attributed the sinking of \"Coast Trader\" to \"an internal explosion.\"\n\nIn the evening of 20 June 1942, while patrolling two miles off the coast of British Columbia, \"I-26\" surfaced and shelled the lighthouse and radio-direction-finding (RDF) installation at Estevan Point. This simple act caused a disproportionate effect on coastal shipping, as all lighthouses along the coast were then extinguished for fear of their use by enemy vessels. \"I-26\" returned to Yokosuka on 7 July 1942.\n\nOn 31 August 1942, she crippled the aircraft carrier at with one torpedo hit (out of six launched).\n\nOn 13 November, during the Third Battle of the Solomon Sea (American: Naval Battle of Guadalcanal), she also hit the badly-damaged cruiser at . \"I-26\"’s torpedo set off \"Juneau\"’s magazine, blowing the ship in half; only ten of the 650-man crew were ultimately rescued. All five Sullivan brothers died either in the initial explosion or floating in the water awaiting rescue.\n\nOn the night of 25–26 October 1944, in the aftermath of the Battle off Samar, \"I-26\" attacked the escort carrier off Leyte. \"I-26\" was sunk by either or .\n\nThe last contact with \"I-26\" was on 25 October; she was officially presumed lost east of Leyte on 21 November 1944. \n\"I-26\" was finally removed from the Navy List on 10 March 1945.\n\"I-26\" was the IJN's third highest scoring submarine in terms of tonnage sunk, sinking more than 51,500 tons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18846051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18846051", "title": "Jerry Parr", "text": "Jerry Parr\n\nJerry S. Parr (September 16, 1930 – October 9, 2015) was a United States Secret Service agent. He was one of the agents protecting President Reagan on the day of his assassination attempt on March 30, 1981 and is widely credited with helping to save the President's life.\n\nParr received his B.A. in English and Philosophy from Vanderbilt University in 1962. In 1987, he received his M.S. in pastoral counseling from Loyola University in Maryland.\n\nAn ordained minister. in 1987, Parr was awarded an honorary doctorate in Humane Letters from Eureka College.\n\nParr's interest in joining the Secret Service originated as a boy after watching \"Code of the Secret Service\" (1939) starring Ronald Reagan as agent \"Brass\" Bancroft. He was working as a lineman for Florida Power and Light in 1962 when he was interviewed by a visiting recruiter for the Secret Service. When asked if he was able to assume the risks of the job, Parr replied it was probably no more dangerous than what he had been doing for the power company. He joined the Secret Service at age 32, the oldest rookie in his class.\n\nOver the next 23 years, Parr conducted 15 foreign and 65 domestic protective surveys for various Presidents and Vice Presidents, and worked with security, intelligence and law enforcement professionals in all 50 states and in 37 countries. From 1969-78, he worked for the Foreign Dignitary Division as a mid-level supervisor on the Humphrey, Agnew and Ford details, and directed security for 56 foreign heads of state, including Queen Elizabeth of England, Emperor Hirohito of Japan, King Juan Carlos of Spain and Pope John Paul II.\n\nFrom 1978-1979, he was Special Agent in Charge of the Vice Presidential Protective Division, where he directed security for Vice President Mondale. In 1979, Parr moved to the Presidential Protective Division, where he was Special Agent in Charge and Head of the White House Detail. There, he directed security for Presidents Carter and Reagan. In 1982, he became Assistant Director of Protective Research, and in 1985, Parr retired from the Secret Service. Parr's story is told in his autobiography, \"In the Secret Service: The True Story Of The Man who Saved President Reagan\" (Tyndale House Publishing), co-authored by his wife Carolyn Parr.\n\nOn March 30, 1981, John Hinckley Jr. opened fire on the President as he exited the Washington Hilton Hotel after giving a speech, firing six bullets in 1.7 seconds. As Parr was pushing Reagan into the limousine, the sixth and final bullet ricocheted off the armored side of the limousine and hit the president in the left underarm, grazing a rib and lodging in his lung, causing it to partially collapse, and stopping less than an inch (25 mm) from his heart. Parr's prompt reaction had saved Reagan from being hit in the head.\n\nAfter the Secret Service first announced \"shots fired\" over its radio network at 2:27 p.m., Reagan—codename \"Rawhide\"—was taken away by the agents in the limousine (\"Stagecoach\"). At first, no one knew that he had been shot, and Parr stated that \"Rawhide is OK...we're going to Crown\" (the White House), as he preferred its medical facilities to an unsecured hospital.\n\nReagan was in great pain from the bullet that struck his rib, and he believed that the rib had cracked when Parr pushed him into the limousine. When the agent checked him for gunshot wounds, however, Reagan coughed up bright, frothy blood. Although the president believed that he had cut his lip, Parr believed that the cracked rib had punctured Reagan's lung and ordered the motorcade to divert to nearby George Washington University Hospital, which the Secret Service periodically inspected for use. Although Reagan came close to death, the medical team's quick action—and Parr's decision to drive to the hospital instead of the White House—likely saved the president's life.\n\nAfter the assassination attempt, Jerry Parr was hailed as a hero and received Congressional commendations for his actions. He later said March 30, 1981 was both the best and the worst day of his life. Parr came to believe that God had directed his life so that he could one day save the president's, and became a pastor after retiring from the Secret Service in 1985.\n\nParr was very active in his church in Washington, D.C., where he was a former co-pastor, retreat leader and spiritual director. He served on the Board of Directors at Joseph's House, an organization for men with AIDS and co-founded Servant Leadership School. In April 1992, he drove a school bus more than 3,000 miles from Washington, D.C. to deliver supplies to an orphanage in San Salvador.\n\nParr died of congestive heart failure at a hospice in Washington, D.C. on October 9, 2015, aged 85. He was survived by Carolyn, his wife of nearly 56 years, three daughters and four granddaughters.\n\n\nParr was a member of the Association for Conflict Resolution and American Association of Pastoral Counsellors. Previously, he was the president of the Association of Former Agents of the U.S. Secret Service.\n\nParr was a film advisor for the movies \"In the Line of Fire\" (1993) and \"Contact\" (1997), and for the documentaries \"In the Line of Fire: Behind the Scenes with the Secret Service\" (1993), and \"Inside the US Secret Service\" (2004). He also served as a commentator on:\n\n"}
{"id": "2028495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2028495", "title": "Kamacuras", "text": "Kamacuras\n\nIn \"Son of Godzilla\", a species of man-sized mantis lived on Sollgel Island. Later, a radioactive accident that occurred due to a weather experiment mutated the insects into even larger proportions. Now the size of buildings, they became known as Kamacuras. Three Kamacuras found a giant egg and cracked it open to find a baby Godzilla. Before they could eat the infant, Godzilla arrived on the scene and attacked. Godzilla killed two of the Kamacuras with the third one killed by the giant spider Kumonga. However, a fourth Kamacuras was seen living on Monster Island in \"Godzilla vs. Gigan\".\n\nThe Showa Kamacuras were 2 meters (6.5 feet) long prior to their mutation and were 50 meters (164 feet) tall and weighed 2,800 metric tons (3,086 short tons) after their mutation.\n\nIn \"\", Kamacuras made an appearance as one of the many controlled monsters of a race of superior extraterrestrial beings known as the Xiliens. It attacks Paris, France and causes damage to one of the EDF's battleships until it is teleported away by an enormous UFO to make it seem as if the Xiliens eliminated every monster. Eventually, it is discovered that the Xiliens were controlling the monsters, who are returned to finish their rampages. Kamacuras battles Godzilla when it makes landfall in Tokyo. Godzilla's resurfacing from the ocean causes a massive tidal wave that forces Kamacuras to flee and camouflage itself in a large forest. Godzilla is able to flush Kamacuras out with its atomic heat ray and Kamacuras flies at Godzilla at Mach speed, but Godzilla grabs it and impales it on an electrical tower, killing it. The novelization shows Godzilla crushing Kamacura's head with its tail.\n\nThe \"Final Wars\" Kamacuras is 40 meters (131 feet) tall, 90 meters (295 feet) long, and weighs 20,000 metric tons (22,046 short tons).\n\nIn addition to its slashing forearm blades and ability to fly, Kamacuras was shown in \"Final Wars\" as being able to blend in with its surroundings through a form of chameleon-like color changing ability.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5696586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5696586", "title": "Kick chart", "text": "Kick chart\n\nA kick chart is a form or graph used by a pregnant woman in the later stages to record the activity of her fetus. If too few kicks are felt within a specified time (usually 12 hours) this could indicate a problem. \n\nA frequent question posed by midwives is how \"many times has the baby kicked in the last twelve hours?\" The unborn foetus should move five times per hour, or ten times in any twelve-hour period. In the UK this is regarded as best indication of the health of the baby from the second trimester.\n\nOnce routine, use of these charts has declined, since women often forgot to complete them and fetal movement patterns are very varied, leading to unnecessary concern.\n\nA more recent trend in the United Kingdom has been the replacement of the kick chart with jewelry-based counters. A pregnancy bracelet is a wearable form of kick counter.\n\nThe bracelets available work on similar principles: the baby kicks, the mother moves a marker. The idea is that this is more practical than using a pen and paper.\n\nThe two most widely advertised bracelets are currently undergoing the patent application process.\n\n"}
{"id": "42220859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42220859", "title": "Li Jingsui", "text": "Li Jingsui\n\nLi Jingsui (李景遂) (920-September 17, 958), né Xu Jingsui (徐景遂), courtesy name Tuishen (退身), formally Crown Prince Wencheng (文成太弟), was an imperial prince of the Chinese Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms Period state Southern Tang. He was a son of Southern Tang's founding emperor Li Bian (Emperor Liezu). During the reign of his brother Li Jing (Emperor Yuanzong), he was initially designated the heir, but, having never embraced that role, repeatedly offered to yield the position to Li Jing's son Li Hongji. Eventually, Li Jing agreed, but Li Hongji, still fearing that Li Jing would change his mind again, had Li Jingsui poisoned to death.\n\nXu Jingsui was born in 920, during the reign of Yang Longyan the King of Wu. His father, then known as Xu Zhigao, was serving as Wu's junior regent at the Wu capital Guangling (廣陵, in modern Yangzhou, Jiangsu), with his adoptive father (Xu Jingsui's adoptive grandfather) Xu Wen the regent taking up position at Jinling and in actual control of the Wu state. His mother was Xu Zhigao's second wife Lady Song Fujin, who was also the mother of his older brothers Xu Jingtong and Xu Jingqian and younger brother Xu Jingda. Xu Jingsui was the third son overall.\n\nBy 936, Wu's titular ruler was Yang Longyan's younger brother Yang Pu, who had taken imperial title by that point; Xu Jingsui's father Xu Zhigao was the regent, stationed at Jinling, with Xu Jingtong also there serving as his deputy. The role that Xu Zhigao formerly had during Xu Wen's regency, as junior regent at the Wu capital Guangling, was held by Xu Jingqian, who was Xu Zhigao's favorite son. However, in 936, Xu Jingqian fell ill, and was removed from the junior regency and recalled to Jinling in hopes of recuperation. Xu Jingsui, then 16, was sent to Guangling to serve as junior regent, carrying the titles of \"Menxia Shilang\" (門下侍郎) and \"Can Zhengshi\" (參政事), as a \"de facto\" chancellor. (Xu Jingqian would not recover, however, and would die in 937.)\n\nIn 937, Yang Pu yielded the throne to Xu Zhigao, ending Wu. Xu Zhigao took the throne as emperor of a new state of Southern Tang. He created Xu Jingsui, who had arrived at Jinling as part of the procession of Wu officials offering the throne to him on Yang's behalf, the Prince of Ji. He also commissioned Xu Jingsui the titles of \"Shizhong\" (侍中), defender of the eastern capital (as Jinling became the Southern Tang capital, with Guangling becoming the eastern capital with the name of Jiangdu (江都)), and mayor of Jiangdu. He had Xu Jingsui lead the officials who were assigned offices in Jiangdu back to Jiangdu. In 938, Xu Zhigao recalled Xu Jingsui to Jinling, to participate in the matters of the office of chancellors, overseeing the executive bureau of government (尚書省, \"Shangshu Sheng\"). When Yang died later in 938, it was Xu Jingsui that Xu Zhigao sent to attend to the funereal train. Xu Jingsui was overcome with grief, and those who saw him were touched.\n\nIn 939, Xu Zhigao changed his surname back to his birth name of Li, and took a new name of Li Bian. His children also changed their names to Li, and Xu Jingsui thus took the name of Li Jingsui. Not long after, Li Jingsui's title was changed to Prince of Shou. In 942, when the senior statesman Song Qiqiu insisted on taking over the executive bureau, Li Bian had Li Jingsui yield the oversight of the executive bureau to him, and instead had Li Jingsui oversee the legislative (中書省, \"Zhongshu Sheng\") and examination (門下省, \"Menxia Sheng\") bureaus instead, but also having Li Jingsui's older brother Li Jingtong (whose name had been changed to Li Jing by this point) oversee all three bureaus. Shortly after, Song's close associate Xia Changtu (夏昌圖) was involved in a corruption scandal, but Song initially did sentence him to death. Li Bian, in anger, personally ordered Xia's death. Song thus resigned his oversight over the executive bureau and was no longer meeting the emperor. Li Bian had to send Li Jingsui to his mansion to comfort him and promise to make him the military governor of Zhennan Circuit (鎮南, headquartered in modern Nanchang, Jiangxi) in order for him to come to the palace, upon which Song was given the Zhennan command.\n\nLi Bian died in 943. Li Jing, as the oldest son, was expected to be the heir, and while he initially offered the throne to Li Jingsui instead, Li Jingsui earnestly declined, and Li Jing thereafter took the throne. He created Li Jingsui the greater title of Prince of Yan. Shortly after, Li Jing, believing that it was Li Bian's will that he pass the throne in succession to Li Jingsui and Li Jingda, created Li Jingsui (who then was also carrying the titles of \"Zhongshu Ling\" (中書令), mayor of Jinling, and military governor of Tianxiong Circuit (天雄, headquartered in modern Handan, Hebei) — a completely honorary title as Tianxiong was under the rule of Southern Tang's northern neighbor Later Jin) the Prince of Qi — a title that Li Bian and Li Jing successively carried before they became emperor. He also had Li Jingsui take up residence at the eastern palace — traditionally, the residence for the Crown Prince — thereby effectively designating him as heir. He also publicly declared his intention to pass the throne to Li Jingsui and Li Jingda (who took over the title of Prince of Yan). Both Li Jingsui and Li Jingda repeatedly declined their new titles, but were not allowed to. However, Li Jingsui still had no desire to be heir, and decided to take, as his courtesy name, Tuishen — from the \"Tao Te Ching\" passage \"withdraw your body after you complete your accomplishment\" (功成名遂身退, \"gongchengming suishentui\") — to show his lack of desire to be heir. (Li Jing's close associate Feng Yanji wanted to use this opportunity to block off the other officials' access to Li Jing, and therefore persuaded Li Jing to issue an edict that the officials could only meet with and report to Li Jingsui; however, when the senior imperial guard officer Jia Chong (賈崇), weeping, pointed out that this meant that Li Jing would not be able to see what was actually occurring in the imperial administration (which was what Feng wanted) and that, if the edict took effect, Jia himself would never be able to see the emperor again, Li Jing withdrew the edict.)\n\nIn 947, Li Jing formally created Li Jingsui Crown Prince. (Li Jingda received the title of Prince of Qi, and Li Jing's oldest son Li Hongji, previously the Prince of Nanchang, became the Prince of Yan.) There was an occasion when Li Jingsui was meeting with his staff, but was paying attention to jade while staff member Zhang Yi (張易) wanted to discuss his (Li Jingsui's) behavior. Zhang, in anger, grabbed a jade cup that Li Jingsui was holding and threw it on the ground, breaking it and shocking the entire staff. Instead of becoming angry, Li Jingsui apologized, and thereafter treated Zhang better. On a subsequent occasion, when Li Jing wanted to send Zhang on an embassy, over the sea, to Liao, Li Jingsui personally wrote a petition to Li Jing urging against it, stating, \"Zhang Yi is man who can support the state. He should be kept around to offer advice day and night. He should not be sent over the unpredictable sea.\" Li Jing, however, responded, \"Zhang Yi is an unusual man, such that even the god of the sea would fear him.\" He sent Zhang on the embassy anyway.\n\nBy 958, Southern Tang had lost a war against Later Zhou (the successor state to Later Han, which had succeeded Later Jin), and had been forced to cede its territory north of the Yangtze River to Later Zhou, as well as formally submit as a subject). Li Jingsui used this opportunity to submit, 10 times, petitions offering to yield his crown prince position, particularly citing his own lack of contributions to the military effort and Li Hongji's contributions in repelling the attack of Later Zhou's vassal state Wuyue during the war. Li Jing accepted his petition and created Li Hongji Crown Prince to succeed him. Li Jingsui was created the Prince of Jin, and was given the additional titles of \"Tiance Shangjiangjun\" (天策上將軍), generalissimo of Jiangnan West Circuit (i.e., Zhennan, but Li Jing intentionally using the more archaic Tang title for it for impressive effect), grand commandant of Zhennan's capital Hong Prefecture (洪州), \"Taiwei\" (太尉), and \"Shangshu Ling\" (尚書令).\n\nUpon Li Jingsui's arrival at Zhennan, he, citing the fact that, given the recent losses to Later Zhou, Zhennan was now potentially exposed to war as well, requested an official as his deputy. Li Jing thus sent Li Zhenggu (李徵古) to Zhennan to serve as his deputy military governor. However, Li Zhenggu was arrogant and dominant, such that even though Li Jingsui was himself magnanimous and relaxed, he became unable to bear Li Zhenggu as time went by. He considered killing Li Zhenggu and then report to Li Jing to confess, but was urged not to by his close associates. He became unhappy, however.\n\nMeanwhile, Li Hongji, as crown prince, had sometimes carried out unlawful deeds. Li Jing, angry, had once caned Li Hongji, and, as he did, stated, \"I will summon Jingsui back!\" There also happened be a time when false accusations were laid against the son of Li Jingsui's staff member Yuan Congfan (袁從範), such that Li Jingsui was considering executing Yuan's son. When Li Hongji heard of this, he secretly sent Yuan poison to encourage Yuan to poison Li Jingsui. On a day after Li Jingsui returned to his mansion after playing polo and was thirsty, Yuan gave him milk laced with poison. Li Jingsui drank it and died. Li Jing was greatly saddened. His servants, wanting to lessen his sadness, falsely stated to him that when Li Jingsui fell ill, he stated, \"Shangdi is having me replace Xu Jingyang (i.e., the Taoist deity Xu Xun).\" Li Jing believed them, and did not look into the matter further. He posthumously honored Li Jingsui as a crown prince.\n\n"}
{"id": "14321281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14321281", "title": "List of entertainers who died during a performance", "text": "List of entertainers who died during a performance\n\nBelow is a list of notable entertainers who died during a performance, live or while filming. This list excludes deaths involving stunt persons as they are listed separately.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57783035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57783035", "title": "M. B. Bambarapane", "text": "M. B. Bambarapane\n\nMutu Banda Bambarapane was a Ceylonese politician.\n\nAt the 2nd parliamentary election, held between 24 May 1952 and 30 May 1952, Bambarapane ran as an Independent candidate in the Welimada electorate. He won the seat, polling 6,314 votes (41% of the total vote) defeating candidates from the United National Party, Sri Lanka Freedom Party and Lanka Sama Samaja Party. He was unable to retain the seat at the subsequent 3rd parliamentary election, held between 5 April 1956 and 10 April 1956, where he ran as the United National Party candidate but was defeated by K. M. P. Rajaratne, 12,336 votes to 4,318 votes.\n\nBambarapane contested the 4th parliamentary election, held on 19 March 1960, however as the United National Party candidate in the newly created Uva Paranagama electorate. He was unsuccessful, losing to Kusuma Rajaratne, the wife of K. M. P. Rajaratne, with Bambarapane receiving 2,695 votes to Rajaratne's 4, 662 votes. Whilst he did not contest the July 1960 parliamentary elections he did run in the 6th parliamentary election, held on 22 March 1965, but this time as an Independent, losing to the sitting member, Kusuma Rajaratne, by 1,951 votes.\n"}
{"id": "218842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218842", "title": "Malicious prosecution", "text": "Malicious prosecution\n\nMalicious prosecution is a common law intentional tort, while like the tort of abuse of process, its elements include (1) intentionally (and maliciously) instituting and pursuing (or causing to be instituted or pursued) a legal action (civil or criminal) that is (2) brought without probable cause and (3) dismissed in favor of the victim of the malicious prosecution. In some jurisdictions, the term \"malicious prosecution\" denotes the wrongful initiation of criminal proceedings, while the term \"malicious use of process\" denotes the wrongful initiation of civil proceedings.\n\nCriminal prosecuting attorneys and judges are protected from tort liability for malicious prosecution by doctrines of prosecutorial immunity and judicial immunity. Moreover, the mere filing of a complaint cannot constitute an abuse of process. The parties who have abused or misused the process have gone beyond merely filing a lawsuit. The taking of an appeal, even a frivolous one, is not enough to constitute an abuse of process. The mere filing or maintenance of a lawsuit, even for an improper purpose, is not a proper basis for an abuse of process action.\n\nDeclining to expand the tort of malicious prosecution, a unanimous California Supreme Court in the case of \"Sheldon Appel Co. v. Albert & Oliker\", 47 Cal. 3d 863, 873 (1989) observed: \"While the filing of frivolous lawsuits is certainly improper and cannot in any way be condoned, in our view the better means of addressing the problem of unjustified litigation is through the adoption of measures facilitating the speedy resolution of the initial lawsuit and authorizing the imposition of sanctions for frivolous or delaying conduct within that first action itself, rather than through an expansion of the opportunities for initiating one or more additional rounds of malicious prosecution litigation after the first action has been concluded.\"\n\nThe tort originates in the (now defunct) legal maxim that \"the King pays no costs\"; that is, The Crown could not be forced to pay the legal costs of a person it prosecuted, even if that person was found innocent. As \"The London Magazine\" stated in 1766: \"if a groundless and vexatious prosecution be commenced in the King's name, his ministers who commenced, or advised commencing that prosecution, ought at least to be obliged to pay the costs which an innocent subject has thereby been put to\".\n\nSixteen U.S. states require another element of malicious prosecution. This element, commonly called the English Rule, states that, in addition to fulfilling all other malicious prosecution elements, one must also prove injury other than the normal downside of being sued. This rule is limited to equitable damages, such as loss of profit, and excludes damages that cannot be measured by the law (\"e.g.\", damage to reputation).\n\nCanadian jurisprudence has changed in that if any individual takes legal action that meet the above criteria, they may be sued. Legal action may be taken against the police or the Crown Attorney or the Attorney General, as they are no longer exempt from suit.\n\nThe tort of malicious prosecution was recently reviewed in 2009 by the Supreme Court of Canada in \"Miazga v. Kvello Estate\", and specifically how it applied to public prosecutors in Canada. The court outlined the four required elements for the tort of malicious prosecution: (i) The prosecution must be initiated by the defendant; (ii) The prosecution must be terminated in the plaintiff's favour. (iii) There was a lack of reasonable and probable grounds to commence or continue the prosecution; and (iv) The defendant was motivated to commence or continue to the prosecution due to malice.\n\nIn 2014, the Quebec Court of Appeal held that the contents of plea bargaining negotiations held in the context of criminal cases could be admitted as evidence in the context of a civil suit for malicious prosecution, despite the general evidentiary rule prohibiting adducing settlement discussions into proof at trial. More specifically, the Court held that introducing into evidence the contents of such negotiations was possible when it tended to demonstrate that the prosecution initiated or maintained criminal charges on the basis of improper motives.\n\nNotably, the tort of malicious prosecution only protects the right of defendants to be free of frivolous lawsuits brought by malicious plaintiffs. For a variety of reasons grounded in public policy, courts have consistently refused to authorize the converse — a tort of malicious defense which would protect the right of plaintiffs to be free of frivolous defenses raised by defendants.\n\n"}
{"id": "49813299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49813299", "title": "Monovalent cation:proton antiporter-3", "text": "Monovalent cation:proton antiporter-3\n\nThe Monovalent Cation (K or Na):Proton Antiporter-3 (CPA3) Family (TC# 2.A.63) is a member of the Na transporting Mrp superfamily. The CPA3 family consists of bacterial multicomponent K:H and Na:H antiporters. The best characterized systems are the PhaABCDEFG system of \"Sinorhizobium meliloti\" (TC# 2.A.63.1.1) that functions in pH adaptation and as a K efflux system, and the MnhABCDEFG system of \"Staphylococcus aureus\" (TC# 2.A.63.1.3) that functions as a Na efflux Na:H antiporter.\n\nA homologous, but only partially sequenced, system was earlier reported to catalyze Na:H antiport in an alkalophilic \"Bacillus\" strain. PhaA and PhaD are respectively homologous to the ND5 and ND4 subunits of the H-pumping (TC #3.D.1). Homologous protein subunits from \"E. coli\" NADH:quinone oxidoreductase can functionally replace MrpA and MrpD in \"Bacillus subtilis.\"\n\nHomologues of PhaA, B, C and D and Nha1, 2, 3 and 4 of an alkalophilic \"Bacillus\" strain are the Yuf(Mrp)T, U, V and D genes of \"Bacillus subtilis\". In this system, YufT is believed to be responsible for Na:H antiporter activity, but it does not have activity in the absence of other constituents of the operon.\n\nThe seven Pha proteins are of the following sizes (in #aas) and exhibit the following putative numbers of transmembrane α-helical spanners (TMSs): \nAll are predicted to be integral membrane proteins.\n\nCorresponding values for the \"S. aureus\" Mnh system are: \nIn view of the complexity of the system, large variation in subunit structure, and the homology with NDH family protein constituents, a complicated energy coupling mechanism, possibly involving a redox reaction, cannot be ruled out.\n\nNa or Li does, but K, Ca, and Mg do not, support significant antiport by the Gram-positive bacterial systems (TC# 2.A.6.3.1.2 and TC# 2.A.6.3.1.3). Na(Li)/H antiporters have alkaline pH optima and apparent K values for Na that are among the lowest reported for bacterial Na/H antiporters. Na/Hantiport consumes the pmf and therefore is probably electrogenic.\n\nYufF (MrpF) appears to catalyze cholate efflux, possibly by a Na symport mechanism. It plays a major role in Na extrusion and is required for initiation of sporulation. Additionally, another component of the operon, MrpF (equivalent to PhaF of \"R. meliloti\") has been implicated in choline and Na efflux. The MrpA-G proteins of \"B. subtilis\" have been shown to be present in a single multicomponent complex. They provide Na/H antiport activity and function in multiple compound resistance and pH homeostasis.\n\nThe generalized reaction believed to be catalyzed by CPA3 family members is:[K or Na] (in) + H (out) ⇌ [K or Na] (out) + H (in).\n\n"}
{"id": "27620557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27620557", "title": "Orhan Adaş", "text": "Orhan Adaş\n\nOrhan Adaş (born 15 March 1916, date of death unknown) was a Turkish fencer. He competed in the individual and team sabre events at the 1936 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "63149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63149", "title": "Pastry War", "text": "Pastry War\n\nThe Pastry War (, ), also known as the First French intervention in Mexico or the First Franco-Mexican War (1838–1839), began in November 1838 with the naval blockade of some Mexican ports and the capture of the fortress of San Juan de Ulúa in Veracruz by French forces sent by King Louis-Philippe. It ended several months later in March 1839 with a British-brokered peace. The intervention followed many claims by French nationals of losses due to unrest in Mexico.\n\nThis incident was the first and lesser of Mexico's two 19th-century wars with France, being followed by the French invasion of 1861–67 which supported the short reign of Emperor Maximilian I of Mexico who was executed by firing squad at the end of that later conflict.\n\nDuring the early years of the new Mexican republic there was widespread civil disorder as factions competed for control of the country. The fighting often resulted in the destruction or looting of private property. Average citizens had few options for claiming compensation as they had no representatives to speak on their behalf. Foreigners whose property was damaged or destroyed by rioters or bandits were usually also unable to obtain compensation from the Mexican government and they began to appeal to their own governments for help and compensation.\n\nCommercial relationships between France and Mexico existed prior to France's recognition of Mexico's independence in 1830, and after the establishment of diplomatic relationships France rapidly became Mexico's third largest trade partner. However, France had yet to secure trade agreements similar to those that the United States and Great Britain (then Mexico's two largest trade partners) had, and as a result of this French goods were subject to higher taxes\n\nIn a complaint to King Louis-Philippe, a French pastry chef known only as Monsieur Remontel claimed that in 1832 Mexican officers looted his shop in Tacubaya (then a town on the outskirts of Mexico City). Remontel demanded 60,000 pesos as reparations for the damage (his shop was valued at less than 1,000 pesos).\n\nIn view of Remontel's complaint (which gave its name to the ensuing conflict) and of other complaints from French nationals (among them the looting in 1828 of French shops at the Parian market and the execution in 1837 of a French citizen accused of piracy) in 1838 prime minister Louis-Mathieu Molé demanded from Mexico the payment of 600,000 pesos (3 million Francs) in damages, an enormous sum for the time, when the typical daily wage in Mexico City was about one peso (8 Mexican reals).\n\nWhen president Anastasio Bustamante made no payment, the King of France ordered a fleet under Rear Admiral Charles Baudin to declare and carry out a blockade of all Mexican ports on the Atlantic coast from Yucatán to the Rio Grande, to bombard the Mexican fortress of San Juan de Ulúa, and to seize the city of Veracruz, which was the most important port on the Gulf coast. French forces captured Veracruz by December 1838 and Mexico declared war on France.\n\nWith trade cut off, the Mexicans began smuggling imports via Corpus Christi, Republic of Texas and into Mexico. Fearing that France would blockade the Republic's ports as well, a battalion of Texan forces began patrolling Corpus Christi Bay to stop Mexican smugglers. One smuggling party abandoned their cargo of about a hundred barrels of flour on the beach at the mouth of the bay, thus giving Flour Bluff its name. The United States, ever watchful of its relations with Mexico, sent the schooner \"Woodbury\" to help the French in their blockade \n\nMeanwhile, acting without explicit government authority, Antonio López de Santa Anna, known for his military leadership, came out of retirement from his hacienda near Xalapa and surveyed the defenses of Veracruz. He offered his services to the government, which ordered him to fight the French by any means necessary. He led Mexican forces against the French. In a skirmish with the rear guard of the French, Santa Anna was wounded in the leg by French grapeshot. His leg was amputated and buried with full military honors. Exploiting his wounds with eloquent propaganda, Santa Anna catapulted back to power.\n\nThe French forces withdrew on 9 March 1839 after a peace treaty was signed. As part of said treaty the Mexican government agreed to pay 600,000 pesos as damages to French citizens while France received promises for future trade commitments in place of war indemnities. However, this amount was never paid and that was later used as one of the justifications for the second French intervention in Mexico of 1861.\n\nFollowing the Mexican victory in 1867 and the collapse of the second French empire in 1870, Mexico and France would not resume diplomatic relationships until 1880 when both countries left behind claims related to the wars.\n"}
{"id": "964341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=964341", "title": "Peripartum cardiomyopathy", "text": "Peripartum cardiomyopathy\n\nPeripartum cardiomyopathy (PPCM) is a form of dilated cardiomyopathy that is defined as a deterioration in cardiac function presenting typically between the last month of pregnancy and up to six months postpartum. As with other forms of dilated cardiomyopathy, PPCM involves systolic dysfunction of the heart with a decrease of the left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) with associated congestive heart failure and an increased risk of atrial and ventricular arrhythmias, thromboembolism (blockage of a blood vessel by a blood clot), and even sudden cardiac death. In essence, the heart muscle cannot contract forcefully enough to pump adequate amounts of blood for the needs of the body's vital organs.\n\nPPCM is a diagnosis of exclusion, wherein patients have no prior history of heart disease and there are no other known possible causes of heart failure. Echocardiogram is used to both diagnose and monitor the effectiveness of treatment for PPCM.\n\nThe cause of PPCM is unknown. Currently, researchers are investigating cardiotropic viruses, autoimmunity or immune system dysfunction, other toxins that serve as triggers to immune system dysfunction, micronutrient or trace mineral definciencies, and genetics as possible components that contribute to or cause the development of PPCM.\n\nThe process of PPCM begins with an unknown trigger (possibly a cardiotropic virus or other yet unidentified catalyst) that initiates an inflammatory process in the heart. Consequently, heart muscle cells are damaged; some die or become scar tissue. Scar tissue has no ability to contract; therefore, the effectiveness of the pumping action of the heart is decreased. Also, damage to the cytoskeletal framework of the heart causes the heart to enlarge, stretch or alter in shape, also decreasing the heart's systolic function or output. The initial inflammatory process appears to cause an autoimmune or immune dysfunctional process, which in turn fuels the initial inflammatory process. Progressive loss of heart muscle cells leads to eventual heart failure.\n\nSymptoms usually include one or more of the following: orthopnea (difficulty breathing while lying flat), dyspnea (shortness of breath on exertion), pitting edema (swelling), cough, frequent night-time urination, excessive weight gain during the last month of pregnancy (1-2+ kg/week; two to four or more pounds per week), palpitations (sensation of racing heart-rate, skipping beats, long pauses between beats, or fluttering), and chest pain.\n\nThe shortness of breath is often described by PPCM patients as the inability to take a deep or full breath or to get enough air into the lungs. Also, patients often describe the need to prop themselves up overnight by using two or more pillows in order to breathe better. These symptoms, swelling, and/or cough may be indications of pulmonary edema (fluid in the lungs) resulting from acute heart failure and PPCM.\n\nUnfortunately, patients and clinicians sometimes dismiss early symptoms because they appear to be typical of normal pregnancy. Yet, early detection and treatment are critically important to the patient with PPCM. Delays in diagnosis and treatment of PPCM are associated with increased morbidity and mortality.\n\nIt is important to note that occasionally patients present with other signs or symptoms. This is demonstrated by one report of a woman with liver failure five weeks postpartum who was being considered for liver transplant. An echocardiogram was performed and revealed PPCM and heart failure as the cause of her severe liver failure. Conventional heart failure medications were administered. She survived and completely recovered from both the liver failure and PPCM.\n\nIt is also quite common for women to present with evidence of having an embolus (clot) passing from the heart to a vital organ, causing such complications as stroke, loss of circulation to a limb, even coronary artery occlusion (blockage) with typical myocardial infarction (heart attack).\n\nFor these reasons, it is paramount that clinicians hold a high suspicion of PPCM in any peri- or postpartum patient where unusual or unexplained symptoms or presentations occur.\n\nThe following screening tool may be useful to patients and medical professionals in determining the need to take further action to diagnose symptoms:\nEarly detection and treatment are associated with higher rates of recovery and decreased morbidity and mortality.\n\nTreatment for PPCM is similar to treatment for congestive heart failure. Conventional heart failure treatment includes the use of diuretics, beta blockers (B-B), and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE-I) after delivery. Diuretics, preferably furosemide, help the body to get rid of excess water weight and also lower blood pressure. ACE-I and B-B improve blood circulation and contribute to the reversal of the immune system dysfunction associated with PPCM. If ACE-I is not well tolerated by the patient, it can be replaced by angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB). Hydralazine with nitrates may replace ACE-I in breastfeeding mothers or before delivery; however, evidence suggests that this course of treatment may not be as effective as ACE-I but beneficial when necessary.\n\nIf EF is less than 35%, anticoagulation is indicated, as there is a greater risk of developing left ventricular thrombi (blood clots). Sometimes implantation of a left ventricular assist device (LVAD) or even heart transplant also becomes necessary.\n\nIt is important that the patient receives regular follow-up care including frequent echocardiograms to monitor improvement or the lack thereof, particularly after changes of medical treatment regimes.\n\nPatients who do not respond to initial treatment, defined as left ventricular EF remaining below 20% at two months or below 40% at three months with conventional treatment may merit further investigation, including cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cardiac catheterization, and endomyocardial biopsy for special staining and for viral polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. Antiviral therapy, immunoabsorption, intravenous gamma globulin, or other immunomodulation therapy may then be considered accordingly, but following a controlled research-type protocol.\n\nSince no one knows for sure exactly when to discontinue treatment, even when recovery occurs quickly, it is still recommended that both ACE-I and B-B be continued for at least one year after diagnosis.\n\nThe most recent studies indicate that with newer conventional heart failure treatment consisting of diuretics, ACE inhibitors and beta blockers, the survival rate is very high at 98% or better, and almost all PPCM patients improve with treatment. In the United States, over 50% of PPCM patients experience complete recovery of heart function (EF 55% or greater). Almost all recovered patients are eventually able to discontinue medications with no resulting relapse and have normal life expectancy.\n\nIt is a misconception that hope for recovery depends upon improvement or recovery within the first six to 12 months of diagnosis. Many women continue to improve or recover even years after diagnosis with continued medicinal treatment. Once fully recovered, if there is no subsequent pregnancy, the possibility of relapse or recurrence of heart failure is minimal.\n\nSubsequent pregnancy should be avoided when left ventricular function has not recovered and the EF is lower than 55%. However, many women who have fully recovered from PPCM have gone on to have successful subsequent pregnancies. A significant study reports that the risk for recurrence of heart failure in recovered PPCM patients as a result of subsequent pregnancy is approximately 21% or better. The chance of relapse may be even smaller for those with normal contractile reserve as demonstrated by stress echocardiography. In any subsequent pregnancy, careful monitoring is necessary. Where relapse occurs, conventional treatment should be resumed, including hydralazine with nitrates plus beta-blockers during pregnancy, or ACE-inhibitors plus beta-blockers following pregnancy.\n\nIt is estimated that the incidence of PPCM in the United States is between 1 in 1300 to 4000 live births. While it can affect women of all races, it is more prevalent in some countries; for example, estimates suggest that PPCM occurs at rates of one in 1000 live births in South African Bantus, and as high as one in 300 in Haiti.\n\nSome studies assert that PPCM may be slightly more prevalent among older women who have had higher numbers of liveborn children and among women of older and younger extremes of childbearing age. However, a quarter to a third of PPCM patients are young women who have given birth for the first time.\n\nWhile the use of tocolytic agents or the development of preeclampsia (toxemia of pregnancy) and pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH) may contribute to the worsening of heart failure, they do not cause PPCM; the majority of women have developed PPCM who neither received tocolytics nor had preeclampsia nor PIH.\n\nIn short, PPCM can occur in any woman of any racial background, at any age during reproductive years, and in any pregnancy.\n"}
{"id": "1625431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1625431", "title": "Pinhead (Hellraiser)", "text": "Pinhead (Hellraiser)\n\nPinhead is a fictional character from the \"Hellraiser\" series, first appearing as an unnamed figure in the Clive Barker novella \"The Hellbound Heart\". The name \"Pinhead\" is derived from a sobriquet given to him by the crew of the first \"Hellraiser\" film; he is first credited as such in \"\". Nearly thirty years after \"The Hellbound Heart\" was published, the character was given the designations the Hell Priest and the Cold Man in the sequels that followed, \"The Scarlet Gospels\" and \"Hellraiser: The Toll\".\n\nPinhead is one of the leaders of the Cenobites, formerly humans but transformed into creatures which reside in an extradimensional realm, who travel to Earth through a puzzle box called the Lament Configuration in order to harvest human souls. His origins and the nature of the Cenobites vary depending upon the medium: while the character began as an amoral entity blindly devoted to the practice of experimental sadomasochism, later depictions have portrayed him as explicitly evil and even demonic in origin.\n\nThe character's appearance in 1987's \"Hellraiser\" marked a significant departure from the standard 1980s depiction of horror movie villains, who tended to either be completely mute, or provide glib commentary while killing their victims. Rather, Pinhead was depicted as quiet yet articulate and intelligent, drawing influence from classical cinematic depictions of Count Dracula.\n\nPinhead first appears in Clive Barker's novella \"The Hellbound Heart\" (1986), in which he only appears in the story's beginning, and is portrayed as a sexually ambiguous follower of the \"Engineer\":\n\nThe character appears in various \"Hellraiser\" comics and received his own comic miniseries, entitled \"Pinhead\", published by Marvel Comics' Epic Comics imprint. In the comic book series, Pinhead is depicted as the latest incarnation of the cenobite spirit Xipe Totec, an entity derived from Aztec mythology. In the \"Harrowing\" storyline, Pinhead is revealed to have been romantically involved with a cenobite named Merkova, who was killed by the disciples of Morte Mamme, the sister and rival of Leviathan. In the Pinhead/Marshal Law crossover series, it is revealed that Pinhead's human incarnation, Captain Spencer, took part in the Battle of the Somme.\n\nCaptain Spencer has a cameo appearance in the novel \"The Bloody Red Baron\" by Kim Newman, in which he is working as an agent of the Diogenes Club. Suffering from shell shock, Spencer is invalided out of the army after hammering nails into his own skull (in his introduction to Newman's collection \"The Original Doctor Shade and Other Stories\", Neil Gaiman claims that Kim Newman was part of a group of friends who inspired the depiction of the Cenobites).\n\nIn 2011, Barker began writing a series of \"Hellraiser\" comics for \"BOOM!,\" taking place sometime after the events of \"Hell on Earth.\" Pinhead is reunited in Hell with his cenobite entourage from the first two films (including Chatterer, the Female, and Butterball), where he comes to mourn the futility of his own existence. Deciding that he wants to permanently return to his human form and seek spiritual salvation, he begins sending anonymous clues to Kirsty Cotton as to the locations of artifacts that summon cenobites so she can destroy them. After Kirsty locates and opens the box, Pinhead and his fellow cenobites appear to her; but, rather than kill her, Pinhead instead betrays his fellow cenobites and he and Kirsty kill them together. As of the September 2011 issue, it is unclear whether Pinhead is attempting to coerce Kirsty into taking his place as the leader of the cenobites, or whether his plans to return to a human form involve romantic interests towards her.\n\nHe also appears in \"The Scarlet Gospels\", in which he confronts Harry D'Amour. In 1998, Clive Barker stated that the novel marks the death of Pinhead, and hopes that it will be definitive.\n\nBarker, who did not like the name \"Pinhead\", vowed to rename the character in \"The Scarlet Gospels\". The novel referred to the character as \"the Hell Priest\", a title he held in Hell.\n\n\"The Scarlet Gospels\" revealed Pinhead as a \"Hell Priest\"; a religious authority figure in Hell. The plot in the novel established Hell as being a mixture of medieval Europe/ancient Greece and the Hell Priest as being a powerful figure in the community, ruling over Hell in the absence of Lucifer, who abandoned Hell shortly after his fall from grace. Having secured all known sources of magic on Earth over a lengthy period of time, the Hell Priest reveals to Harry D'Amour that he has been secretly killing off his rivals in Hell to assume complete control over the realm. He also kidnaps Harry's friend Norma and uses her as a hostage to visit a forbidden section of Hell where Lucifer is said to reside. the Hell Priest's goal is to meet Satan and hopefully gain enlightenment from his encounter. However, he only finds Lucifer, dead in a crypt with his armor. the Hell Priest removes and dons Lucifer's armor, inadvertently raising him from the dead. Lucifer mortally wounds the Hell Priest, who manages to kill Norma and blind Harry before dying. His remains are ultimately destroyed when an unseen force annihilates Hell following Satan leaving the realm for Earth following the battle.\n\nThe 2018 novella \"Hellraiser: The Toll\" by Mark Alan Miller bridges the gap between \"The Hellbound Heart\" and \"The Scarlet Gospels\", where the Hell Priest was also identified as the Cold Man. In the novella, he calls upon his first witness for his plan from \"The Scarlet Gospels\", before he ultimately chose Harry D'Amour.\n\nIn the movie series storyline, Pinhead was born Elliott Spencer and opened the Lament Configuration after becoming disenchanted with human life from his service in World War I. Like the other Cenobites, he lost all memory of his human identity following the transformation and serves the deity Leviathan by abducting others who solve the Lament Configuration and torture them in a labyrinth realm called Hell.\n\nIn \"Hellraiser\" (1987), Kirsty Cotton unintentionally summons Pinhead and the Cenobites, but is spared on condition that she lead the Cenobites to her uncle, Frank Cotton, who had escaped them. After reclaiming Frank, the Cenobites turn on Kirsty, who manages to banish them back to their realm.\n\nIn \"\" (1988), Pinhead regains memories of his original self when Kirsty shows him a photograph of Spencer. Pinhead briefly leads his fellow Cenobites in a battle with the newly created Channard cenobite, but is seemingly killed after being reverted to his human form.\n\nIn \"\" (1992), it is learned that Spencer's reversion to his human form caused the negative attributes of himself to manifest into an independent entity, which takes the form of Pinhead. Without human influence, Pinhead is unbound by the laws of the Cenobite Hell as he manifests on Earth after being trapped in the form of an intricately carved pillar with writhing figures and distorted faces etched into the surface. Using the nightclub owner J.P. Monroe, Pinhead feeds on enough humans to gain his freedom as he engages in an indiscriminate killing spree on Earth, transforming some of his victims into a Cenobite army. Spencer manages to escape Limbo and stops Pinhead by re-merging with him before the restored entity is banished back to the Cenobites' reality.\n\nIn \"\" (1996) Pinhead allies himself with the demon princess Angelique, in order to force John Merchant (a descendant of the inventor who built the Lament Configuration) to create an unsealable gateway to Hell. The future segments of the film reveal that Pinhead is finally destroyed in the year 2127 by Dr. Paul Merchant, another descendant, who uses a space station to complete the \"Elysium Configuration\", capable of closing Hell's gateway for good. Pinhead and other Cenobites are trapped inside it and are destroyed along with the box.\n\nIn \"\" (2000) Pinhead appears primarily under the guise of police psychiatrist Doctor Paul Gregory, assuming his true form near the end to inform protagonist Detective Joseph Thorne that he has been in Hell for the duration of the film, and is being punished for his corruption and various misdeeds in life.\n\nIn \"\" (2002) Pinhead serves a role similar to the one he fulfilled in \"Inferno\". Kirsty is now married to Trevor, a corrupt insurance agent who plots to have her killed in a murder-for-money scheme, using Lemarchand's box to \"cleanly\" kill Kirsty without the evidence pointing to himself, his mistress, or his conspirators. Pinhead appears at the end of the film to inform Trevor, who had amnesia throughout the film, that he has actually been dead and trapped by the Cenobites for some time; Pinhead had appeared to Kirsty, pleased at the prospect of a \"reunion,\" but Kirsty ultimately struck a deal with him: she would be left alone in exchange for killing Trevor and his conspirators, thus giving the Cenobites the victims' souls.\n\nIn \"\" (2005) Pinhead appears several times to reporter Amy Klein after she tinkers with the box, a central relic of a cult she is investigating. After Amy is captured by the group's leader, Winter, she learns he is a descendant of puzzle creator Phillip Lemarchand, and believes that it is his birthright to control the box and, thereby, the Cenobites. However, neither he nor any of his followers have been able to open it. Amy successfully opens the box, but rather than submit to Winter, Pinhead instead kills him and his followers for attempting to control it. Subject to being taken to the Cenobite realm for having opened the box, Amy instead chooses to commit suicide.\n\nPinhead appears as a fictional character in \"\" (2005). In this film the box and the Cenobites have become the basis for a successful MMORPG called \"Hellworld\". Although the Pinhead seems to attack the guests at a \"Hellraiser\"-themed party, he is revealed to be the hallucination of five guests who have been drugged and buried alive by the party's host, who blames them for not preventing his \"Hellworld\"-addicted son's suicide. In the film's climax, the host discovers that the \"Hellraiser\" mythos is based on fact, and that his son had come into possession of a real Lemarchand box. Opening it causes the real Pinhead to appear, praising the boy's ingenuity before ordering a pair of Cenobites to kill the host.\n\nIn \"\" (2011), Pinhead is physically portrayed by Stephan Smith Collins, with Fred Tatasciore providing the voice.\n\nIn \"\" (2018), Pinhead is portrayed by Paul T. Taylor. In the film, Pinhead eviscerates the angel Jophiel after manipulating events so that a serial murderer is killed; one who is integral to God's plan to instill fear into sinners. Pinhead is punished by being expelled from Hell and sent to earth as a mortal man, crying out in longing for his revered state of eternal agony.\n\nAccording to Clive Barker and Doug Bradley, the earliest incarnation of Pinhead appeared in \"Hunters in the Snow\", an original 1973 play with Doug Bradley in the role of the Dutchman, an undead inquisitor and torturer. A later film titled \"The Forbidden\", which was shot in 16 millimetre and in black and white, included a prop in the form of a wooden block with six nails in it, which gave distorted shadow formations under different lighting angles. Years later, during the scripting of \"Hellraiser\", the same design would be applied to Pinhead's face to give the same effect.\n\nAfter being disappointed with the way his material had been treated by producers in \"Underworld\" (which included a scene in which needles burst out of a character's skull), Barker wrote \"The Hellbound Heart\" as his first step in directing a film by himself.\n\nBarker drew inspiration for the cenobite designs from punk fashion, Catholicism and by the visits he took to S&M clubs in New York and Amsterdam. For Pinhead specifically, Barker drew inspiration from African fetish sculptures. Initially, Barker intended Pinhead to have a navel piercing implying that the character had genital piercings. Barker's original \"Hell Priest\" sketches for Pinhead were eventually adapted into an officially licensed mask by Composite Effects, to be released in limited quantity to the public on 24 March 2017. This was done in celebration of the 30th Anniversary of \"Hellraiser\".\n\nAfter securing funding in early 1986, Barker and his producer Chris Figg assembled a team to design the cenobites. Among the team was Bob Keen and Geoff Portass at Image Animation and Jane Wildgoose, a costume designer who was requested to make a series of costumes for 4–5 'super-butchers' while refining the scarification designs with Image Animation. In terms of lighting, Pinhead was designed so that shadows would swirl round his head. By July 1986, the shooting script positively identified the single pinheaded Cenobite from the earlier draft as clearly the leader.\n\nThe upcoming \"\" will update Pinhead's appearance from the previous films. As writer-director Gary J. Tunnicliffe explained, \"This is a very no nonsense Pinhead. No glib one-liners, he's a little leaner and a little meaner. We especially tried to incorporate this into the make-up and costume; the cuts are deeper, the pins a little longer, his eyes are completely black and wardrobe is a little sleeker and more visceral. Someone on set described him as the 'bad ass' version of Pinhead.\" The flesh exposed on Pinhead's chest was redesigned as a rhombus in honour of Pinhead's master, the fictional character Leviathan.\n\nIn the first eight Hellraiser films, Pinhead is portrayed by Doug Bradley. Because of his eventual skill at application and removal of the Pinhead appliances and costume, Bradley has been credited in some of the Hellraiser films as an assistant make-up artist. When he read the script for the first time, Bradley stated on interview that he saw Pinhead as a cross between Oscar Wilde and Noël Coward. Upon asking Barker how he should play Pinhead, Barker told him to \"[think] of him as a cross between an administrator and a surgeon who's responsible for running a hospital where there are no wards, only operating theatres. As well as being the man who wields the knife, he's the man who has to keep the timetable going.\" The two also decided early on that Pinhead was formerly human:\n\nThe Pinhead makeup took six hours to apply. When Bradley first donned the Pinhead makeup, he spent a few minutes alone in his room getting into character by looking at himself in the mirror. During rehearsals, Barker told Bradley, who at the time was more used to working in theatre, to subdue his movements and gestures, in order to give Pinhead an aura of complete control. New World Productions originally considered overdubbing Bradley's voice with that of an American actor, though this was reconsidered when the producers watched him perform.\n\nPaul T. Taylor portrays Pinhead in \"Hellraiser: Judgment\", an experience he describes as a dream-come-true. According to Taylor, \"[Pinhead] was always my favorite horror icon because he was the most twisted and intelligent in my mind.\" The American actor used a faux British accent when portraying the character due to his belief that \"Pinhead has to be British\". Gary Tunnicliffe gave Taylor room to create his own interpretation of Pinhead, as Taylor brought an intentional vulnerability to the role. In addition to prior knowledge, Taylor used \"Hellraiser\" comic books as preparation for the film.\n\nIn the first \"Hellraiser\" script drafts, Pinhead was credited as \"Priest\". In the film, the character was simply credited as the \"Lead Cenobite\".\n\nThe name \"Pinhead\" was coined by the makeup crew that applied the prosthetics on Bradley to distinguish the Cenobites. Clive Barker had no say in choosing \"Pinhead\" as a name and did not like it, as he thought it was undignified. In the films, the character was first referred to openly as \"Pinhead\" by protagonist Joey Summerskill in \"Hellraiser III: Hell on Earth.\" The name is also used as a derogative term towards the Cenobite by Jophiel, God's advisor and Pinhead's superior, before he kills her in \"Hellraiser: Judgment,\" during the film's finale. The name also appears in the film \"Hellworld,\" referring to the fictional character portrayed in the Hellraiser game. Pinhead was given the designation Hell Priest in Clive Barker's novel \"The Scarlet Gospels\", while his original concept art for Pinhead was adapted into a Hell Priest mask in 2017.\n\nPinhead's role has varied with each \"Hellraiser\" installment. In the script for the original film, Barker describes Pinhead and the other cenobites as \"demons\" in his notes; the character himself, however, upon capturing Kirsty Cotton, identifies himself as neither explicitly angelic nor demonic, stating that he and his fellow entourage are \"Explorers in the further regions of experience. Demons to some. Angels to others.\" The second film expounds on the idea of the Cenobites as demons by depicting them as denizens of a realm called Hell, a maze-like dimension ruled over by an entity known as Leviathan, where they subject their quarry to emotional and psychological torture. The third film radically altered the original concept, making Pinhead into a purely evil demon of chaos, explained by Pinhead losing the human, 'orderly', part of himself during the previous film. In the fourth film he is presented as a megalomaniac bent on world domination, and by the fifth he acts as a judge, punishing those who open the box for their sins by making them face their personal demons. In this film, he goes by the title of \"Engineer\", a name derived from the lead cenobite in Clive Barker's original novella. The seventh film reverts closer to the original film, with the Cenobites responsible for pleasure and pain, but the characters seem more demonic as in later installments.\n\nThe character's past, which is alluded to in \"Hellbound\", is expanded upon in \"Hell on Earth\". It is revealed that Pinhead originated as Elliott Spencer, a captain in the British Expeditionary Force suffering from PTSD and survivor guilt. Spencer participated in the Battle of Passchendaele, after which he lost faith in humanity and God. He wandered Earth indulging in a hedonistic lifestyle to bury his trauma, turning to the baser methods of gratification and pleasure until finding the Lament Configuration in British India in 1921.\n\nAccording to Clive Barker, as the writing of the \"Hellraiser\" script took place during the height of the \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\", \"Friday the 13th\" and \"Halloween\" film series, his intended portrayal of Pinhead as an articulate and intelligent character was initially not well received by the producers: some suggested that Pinhead should act more like Freddy Krueger and crack jokes, while others suggested that he be a silent character like Jason Voorhees and Michael Myers. Barker insisted that Pinhead's personality be more evocative of Christopher Lee's portrayal of Count Dracula: \"Part of the chill of Dracula surely lies in the fact that he is very clearly and articulately aware of what he is doing – you feel that this is a penetrating intelligence – and I don't find dumb things terribly scary – I find intelligence scary, particularly twisted intelligence; it's one of the reasons why Hannibal Lecter is scary, isn't it? It's because you always feel that he's going to be three jumps ahead of you.\"\n\nThough described by Pinhead's human half in \"Hellraiser III: Hell on Earth\" as being \"very persuasive and very inventive\", Pinhead prefers using coercive methods in order to obtain his goals, a fact which brings him into conflict with his ally, the demon Princess Angelique.\n\nPinhead can be reasoned and bargained with. In both \"Hellraiser\" and \"Hellraiser: Hellseeker\", Kirsty Cotton bargains with Pinhead to offer him more \"souls\" in exchange for her own (in particular, her human adversaries), thus resulting in her life being spared. In \"Hellraiser: Revelations\", Pinhead is prepared to take Emma to the cenobite realm for having opened the box before other characters explain that she was forced to open it at gunpoint by her boyfriend; Pinhead agrees to let Emma go and take Nico instead.\n\nIn his demonic incarnations, Pinhead is irreverent toward Christianity: in the third film, club owner J.P. Monroe exclaims \"Jesus Christ,\" to which Pinhead mockingly replies, \"Not quite.\", and later on mockingly imitates the stigmata in a church, and states in the fourth \"Do I look like someone who cares what God thinks?\" In Clive Barker's \"Hellraiser\" comics published by \"BOOM!\" in 2011, Pinhead has reached a crisis point in his existence and now yearns for spiritual salvation and the opportunity to reach Heaven, and puts into motion a plan to destroy his fellow cenobites as a means of atonement.\n\nPaul T. Taylor, who portrays Pinhead in \"\", described the character as \"twisted and intelligent\". Finding Pinhead's mannerisms and demeanor to be unique among horror icons, Taylor tried to capture that in his performance: \"It's about the stillness. He's already so terrifying that when he makes a move, it means something. He's very economical and when he speaks, he's so eloquent.\" Taylor also incorporated the uncomfortable make-up and costume into his presentation of the sadomasochist, stating \"Pinhead's always in agony so he likes it. I feel like I was in character the whole time, and I don't mean that in some sort of artistic, lofty way. I mean I maintained the demeanor the whole time because I had to.\"\n\nDescribed by Doug Bradley as stronger than Jason Voorhees and Michael Myers, Pinhead is an extremely powerful being, and as such, has several supernatural abilities. His preferred method of attack is by summoning hooks and chains to mutilate victims, often pulling said victims in several directions to tear them apart. These chains are subject to his total mental control and he may direct them at will. The chains may even change shape after having attached to a victim. Pinhead is highly resistant to damage and direct assault, being able to resist both gunshots and futuristic energy weapons. His magic is also used for creating objects out of thin air, teleporting, creating explosions at distances and deceiving opponents with illusions. He is capable of creating other cenobites from both living and dead victims.\n\nIn order to act in the physical world, Pinhead needs to have been purposely summoned through the Lament Configuration, though this in itself is not usually enough for Pinhead to target the puzzle-solver: in \"Hellbound: Hellraiser II\", Pinhead stops the Cenobites from torturing an emotionally traumatised girl who was manipulated as a proxy into opening the Configuration, remarking \"...it is not \"hands\" that call us, it is \"desire\".\" In \"Hell on Earth\", he temporarily eliminates these restraints when he is separated from the part of him that is Elliot Spencer, wreaking havoc indiscriminately upon every human subject he encounters until he is finally defeated when Spencer willingly merges with Pinhead once again, the combination binding Pinhead as Spencer keeps his extremes in check. During this incident his powers were apparently expanded beyond their normal limits allowing him to physically warp reality to his will.\n\nPinhead at first has no memory of his human past, though is reminded of it in \"Hellbound: Hellraiser II\", which results in what screenwriter Peter Atkins described as him being \"spiritually weakened\" and subsequently killed by the Chanard Cenobite.\n\nPinhead is shown in all his appearances to be accompanied by other denizens of Hell. Although originally portrayed as a subordinate of \"The Engineer\" in \"The Hellbound Heart\", his film incarnations show him as the leader of secondary cenobite characters. The most consistent members of his entourage are a trio of Cenobites named Butterball, The Female, and Chatterer. All three appear in The Hellbound Heart, the first two Hellraiser films, and the BOOM! comic series, with The Female and Butterball making appearances in The Scarlet Gospels and Chatterer appearing in all but two of the Hellraiser sequels. In \"Hellraiser III: Hell on Earth\" and \"Hellraiser: Bloodline\" Pinhead creates cenobites from his victims, giving them characteristics evocative of their past lives or professions. Later films in the series depict Pinhead accompanied by new Cenobites of unknown origin. Though he usually dominates other demons present in the films, in \"Hellraiser: Bloodline\", he encounters Angelique, whom he grudgingly treats as an equal:\n\nThough initially reverent toward her, Pinhead is disillusioned when his methods in achieving his goals through coercion come at odds with Angelique's more seductive techniques.\n\nDoug Bradley has stated that he has not been approached to portray Pinhead in the remake, stating that \"seeing someone else become Pinhead feels like a kick in the teeth\".\n\nGary Tunnicliffe, who was responsible for the Pinhead makeup in the last four films, improvised a new design for Pinhead called \"Project Angel: Recreating an Icon\", the photos of which he published in \"Fangoria\".\n\nAmong Tunnicliffe's redesigns included the usage of square shafted nails for the iconic pins, which were meant to look rusted and handmade. He also designed the new Pinhead as wearing a white priest's robe rather than the original black leather, as a homage to the origins of the word \"cenobite\" which implies a religious connection.\n\nThe redesign was criticised by Clive Barker as being too bloody:\n\nPascal Laugier, who was set to write the remake wrote an online statement, stressing that Tunnicliffe's redesign was unauthorised, and that he himself had a very different design in mind.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26983153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26983153", "title": "Pluripotency (biological compounds)", "text": "Pluripotency (biological compounds)\n\nThe pluripotency of biological compounds describes the ability of certain substances to produce several distinct biological responses. Pluripotent is also described as something that has no fixed developmental potential, as in being able to differentiate into different cell types in the case of pluripotent stem cells.\n\nOne type of pluripotent cell, called a hematopoietic stem cell, can differentiate into a large variety of cells with different functions. This stem cell can produce red blood cells, platelets, mast cells, dendritic cells, macrophages, lymphocytes, neutrophils, basophils, and eosinophils. Each of these cells have a different function, but they all work together as part of the immune system. \nMonocytes can differentiate into either dendritic cells or macrophages. Macrophages are covered with chemical receptors and phagocytose foreign particles, but are specific about what immune responses to be involved in. Dendritic cells phagocytose invaders; then they present the antigen on their surface to stimulate the acquired immune system (lymphocytes) as backup.\n\nAnother example are lymphocytes called naïve T-helper cells. These cells can differentiate into many subtypes once activated by antigen presenting cells (APCs) like dendrites. They divide into memory cells, TH1, TH17, and TH2 cells, to name a few. Memory cells are made solely for the purpose of having a template to use in the case of reinfection so the body has a jump start instead of starting over as if never infected. TH17 cells do a variety of tasks including recruiting neutrophils, creating defensins, and mediating inflammation in the intestinal epithelium and skin. TH2 cells produce cytokines that will trigger certain B cells. B cells can differentiate into memory cells or plasma cells. The B plasma cells produce the antibodies that are used to tag invading cells so they can be attacked, among other functions. TH1 cells are created to make cytokines, like interferon gamma, that activate macrophages and cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs).\n\nInterferon gamma represents an example of pluripotency in itself. Many cytokines are pluripotent, in that each of these compounds can activate specific behavior in some cell types and inhibit other behavior in other cell types. Once activated by T lymphocytes or Natural Killer cells, interferon gamma upregulates expression of macrophages and both types of Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) antigens. In B lymphocytes (B cells), interferon gamma stimulates antibody class switching. All of these cells have different, specialized functions, but they all came from one pluripotent cell.\n"}
{"id": "56630523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56630523", "title": "Sergei Vasilyevich Belyaev", "text": "Sergei Vasilyevich Belyaev\n\nSergei Vasilyevich Belyaev (Russian: Сергей Васильевич Беляев; old style 20 September/2 October 1856, Moscow - ?) was a Major general of the Imperial Russian Army, brigade commander of the 83th infantry division.\nSergei Belyaev originated from the Moscow Governorate nobility. In Moscow he lived in the Frolov family house beside the Saint Nicholas Church on Pillars. He graduated from the Lazarev Institute of Oriental Languages in Moscow and then passed an officer’s examination at the 2nd Constantin Military School in Saint-Petersburg.\n\nHe resided at Bolshoy Sampsonievsky Avenue, 65..\n\nHe started his military career in 1879. Starting from 1882 he served as praporshchik and podporuchik at the Moscow Guard Regiment. In 1886 – poruchik and in 1893 he was promoted for the stabs-kapitan rank for a distinction in service, he subsequently commanded the 11th company at the Moscow Guard Regiment. In 1897 was the next promotion to the captain’s rank. In 1901 Belyaev was awarded an Order of Saint Stanislaus of the 2nd class, in 1904 – an Order of Saint Anna of the 2nd class. In 1903 he became a colonel. In 1909 he received an Order of Saint Vladimir of the 4th class. Major general from 24.05.1915 promoted from 09.11.1914.\n\nBelyaev fought in the First World War, being the commanding officer of the 71st Belevsky Regiment in the rank of colonel. He was wounded at the front line and from August 18 to 30, 1914, was in the Kiev military hospital. Together with Lieutenant-Colonel podpolkovnik Ivan D. Datsenko he commanded the 71st Infantry Belevsky Regiment during the victorious attack on the Austrians by the Opatovka River in October 1914, which resulted in the taking of over 900 prisoners\n\nIn November 1914 he was appointed commander of the brigade of the 83rd Infantry Division, which fought in eastern Poland. On The highest order of May 24, he 1915 was promoted to Major General from November 9, 1914.\n\nWhile at the front line, he received several more military insignia: in March 1915 - swords and a bow to the Order of St. Vladimir of the 4th degree class (for military merit); in April of the same year - the Order of St. Vladimir 3rd degree class with swords. The last military award, which he is known to have - the Order of St. Stanislaus, 1st degree class with swords, was granted to Belyaev on the highest order of June 16, 1916.\n\nAs of July 10, 1916, he served in the same rank and position, when the 83rd Infantry Division participated in the bloody offensive operation of Russian troops in the region of Baranovichi. He kept records in the field book of headquarters 83 infantry division until July 22, 1917, while the troops were in the village of Kvasovitsa, Volynsk region (now north-western Ukraine). The place and date of his death are unknown.\n\n\nHis father Belyaev Vasily Alexeyevich (1823-1881) was a professor at the Lazarev Institute of Oriental Languages. His mother Belyaeva Olga Mikhailovna (1833-1912) was from the family of Moscow merchant jewelers the Frolov. Sergei Belyaev was married to Belyaeva Evgenia Platonovna. His brother Belyaev Nikolai Vasilievich (1859-1920) was an entrepreneur and one of the founders of the Upper Volga Railroad Society. His sister Belyaeva Maria Vasilievna (1869-?) was married to the Consul general of the Russian Empire in Damascus.[15]\n"}
{"id": "44044572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44044572", "title": "Sexual violence in the Iraqi insurgency", "text": "Sexual violence in the Iraqi insurgency\n\nThe Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) has employed sexual violence against women and men in a manner that has been described as \"terrorism\". Sexual violence, as defined by The World Health Organization includes “any sexual act, attempt to obtain a sexual act, unwanted sexual comments or advances, or acts to traffic, or otherwise directed, against a person’s sexuality using coercion, by any person regardless of their relationship to the victim, in any setting, including but not limited to home and work.” ISIL has used sexual violence to undermine a sense of security within communities, and to raise funds through the sale of captives into sexual slavery.\n\nIn October 2014, in its digital magazine \"Dabiq\", ISIL explicitly claimed religious justification for enslaving Yazidi women. Specifically, ISIL argued that the Yazidi were idol worshipers and appealed to the shariah practice of spoils of war. ISIL asserts that certain Hadith and Qur’anic verses support their right to enslave and rape captive non-Muslim women. ISIL appealed to apocalyptic beliefs and \"claimed justification by a Hadith that they interpret as portraying the revival of slavery as a precursor to the end of the world.\" According to \"Dabiq,\" \"enslaving the families of the kuffar and taking their women as concubines is a firmly established aspect of the Sharia’s that if one were to deny or mock, he would be denying or mocking the verses of the Qur'an and the narration of the Prophet … and thereby apostatizing from Islam.\" In late 2014 ISIL released a pamphlet that focused on the treatment of female slaves. It says fighters are allowed to have sex with adolescent girls and to beat slaves as discipline. The pamphlet's guidelines also allow fighters to trade slaves, including for sex, as long as they have not been impregnated by their owner. Charlie Winter, a researcher at the counter-extremist think tank Quilliam, described the pamphlet as \"abhorent\". \"The New York Times\" said in August 2015 that \"[t]he systematic rape of women and girls from the Yazidi religious minority has become deeply enmeshed in the organization and the radical theology of the Islamic State in the year since the group announced it was reviving slavery as an institution.\"\n\nISIL has received widespread criticism from Muslim scholars and others in the Muslim world for using part of the Qur'an to derive a ruling in isolation, rather than considering the entire Qur’an and Hadith. In late September 2014 a group of 126 Islamic scholars had signed an open letter to the Islamic State's leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, rejecting his group's interpretations of the Qur'an and hadith to justify its actions. The letter accused the group of instigating fitna—sedition—by instituting slavery under its rule in contravention of the anti-slavery consensus of the Islamic scholarly community. According to Martin Williams in \"The Citizen\", some hard-line Salafists apparently regard extramarital sex with multiple partners as a legitimate form of holy war and it is \"difficult to reconcile this with a religion where some adherents insist that women must be covered from head to toe, with only a narrow slit for the eyes\". According to Mona Siddiqui, ISIL's \"narrative may well be wrapped up in the familiar language of jihad and 'fighting in the cause of Allah', but it amounts to little more than destruction of anything and anyone who doesn't agree with them\"; she describes ISIL as reflecting a \"lethal mix of violence and sexual power\" and a \"deeply flawed view of manhood\". In response to the ISIL pamphlet on the treatment of slaves Abbas Barzegar, a religion professor at Georgia State University, said Muslims around the world find ISIL's \"alien interpretation of Islam grotesque and abhorrent\".<ref name=\"Botelho - 12/12/2014\">Greg Botelho, \"ISIS: Enslaving, having sex with 'unbelieving' women, girls is OK,\" \"CNN\", December 13, 2014</ref> Muslim leaders and scholars from around the world have rejected the validity of these claims, claiming that the reintroduction of slavery is unislamic, that they are required to protect ‘People of the Scripture’ including Christians, Jews, Muslims and Yazidis, and that ISIL's fatwas are invalid due to their lack of religious authority and the fatwas' inconsistency with Islam.\n\nAn article in \"Foreign Policy\" suggests the existence of “a bias against covering rape and sexual assault, since they tend to be viewed by some as 'women’s issues' versus 'mainstream' insurgent tactics.\" Others warn that sexual violence should not be categorized as an act of terror, because such a categorization could provoke dangerous consequences.\nCatherine M. Russell, Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women’s Issues affirms “the de-humanization of women and girls is central to ISIL’s campaign of terror, through which it destroys communities, rewards its fighters and feeds its evil. A coalition that fights ISIL must also fight this particularly egregious form of brutality.”\nOn September 6, 2014, Defend International launched a worldwide campaign entitled \"Save The Yazidis: The World Has To Act Now\" to raise awareness about the tragedy of the Yazidis in Sinjar; coordinate activities related to intensifying efforts aimed at rescuing Yazidi and Christian women and girls captured by ISIL, and building a bridge between potential partners and communities whose work is relevant to the campaign, including individuals, groups, communities, and organizations active in the areas of women’s and girls’ rights, inter alia, as well as actors involved in ending modern-day slavery and violence against women and girls\n\nOn October 14, 2014, Dr. Widad Akrawi of Defend International dedicated her 2014 International Pfeffer Peace Award to the Yazidis, Christians and all residents of Kobane because, she said, facts on the ground demonstrate that these peaceful people are not safe in their enclaves and therefore in urgent need for immediate attention from the global community. She asked the international community to make sure that the victims are not forgotten; they should be rescued, protected, fully assisted and compensated fairly. On November 4, 2014, Dr. Akrawi said that “the international community should define what’s happening to the Yezidis as a crime against humanity, crime against cultural heritage of the region and ethnic cleansing,” adding that Yazidi females are being subjected to a systematic gender-based violence and that slavery and rape are being used by ISIL as weapons of war.” On 3 November 2014, the horrifying “price list” for Yazidi and Christian females issued by ISIL surfaced online, and Dr. Akrawi and her team were the first to verify the authenticity of the document. On 4 November 2014, a translated version of the document was shared by Dr. Akrawi. On 4 August 2015, the same document was confirmed as genuine by a UN official.\n\nA United Nations report issued on October 2, 2014, based on 500 interviews with witnesses, said that ISIL took 450–500 women and girls to Iraq's Nineveh region in August where \"150 unmarried girls and women, predominantly from the Yazidi and Christian communities, were reportedly transported to Syria, either to be given to ISIL fighters as a reward or to be sold as sex slaves\". In mid-October, the UN confirmed that 5,000–7,000 Yazidi women and children had been abducted by ISIL and sold into slavery. In November 2014 the U.N. Commission of Inquiry on Syria said that ISIS was committing crimes against humanity. In 2016 the Commission for International Justice and Accountability said they had identified 34 senior ISIL members who were instrumental in the systematic sex slave trade and planned to prosecute them after the end of hostilities.\n\nAccording to one report, ISIL's capture of Iraqi cities in June 2014 was accompanied by an upsurge in crimes against women, including kidnap and rape. \"The Guardian\" reported that ISIL's extremist agenda extended to women's bodies and that women living under their control were being captured and raped. Fighters are told that they are free to have sex and rape non-Muslim captive women. Hannaa Edwar, a leading women’s rights advocate in Baghdad who runs an NGO called Iraqi Al-Amal Association (IAA), said that none of her contacts in Mosul were able to confirm any cases of rape. However, another Baghdad-based women's rights activist, Basma al-Khateeb, said that a culture of violence existed in Iraq against women generally and felt sure that sexual violence against women was happening in Mosul involving not only ISIL but all armed groups.\n\nIn a press release by the United Nations Iraq on August 12, 2014, representatives report “atrocious accounts on the abduction and detention of Yazidi, Christian, as well as Turkomen and Shabak women, girls and boys, and reports of savage rapes, are reaching us in an alarming manner.” Instances of sexual violence appear to be increasing, with some estimates totaling 1,500 Yazidi and Christian captives forced into sexual slavery.\nAmnesty International infers that ISIL has “launched a systematic campaign of ethnic cleansing in northern Iraq,” where “many of those held by IS have been threatened with rape or sexual assault or pressured to convert to Islam. In some cases entire families have been abducted”. Thus, these crimes extend beyond gender-based violence as males, in addition to females, are being targeted. In this case sexual violence is employed to achieve a political goal, religious conversion to Islam as interpreted by ISIL.\n\nYazidi girls in Iraq allegedly raped by ISIL fighters have committed suicide by jumping to their death from Mount Sinjar, as described in a witness statement.\n\nHaleh Esfandiari from the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars has highlighted the abuse of local women by ISIL militants after they have captured an area. \"They usually take the older women to a makeshift slave market and try to sell them. The younger girls ... are raped or married off to fighters\", she said, adding, \"It's based on temporary marriages, and once these fighters have had sex with these young girls, they just pass them on to other fighters.\" Speaking of Yazidi women captured by ISIS, Nazand Begikhani said \"[t]hese women have been treated like cattle... They have been subjected to physical and sexual violence, including systematic rape and sex slavery. They've been exposed in markets in Mosul and in Raqqa, Syria, carrying price tags.\" \"Dabiq\" describes \"this large-scale enslavement\" of non-Muslims as \"probably the first since the abandonment of Shariah law\".\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported on September 29, 2014, that ISIL extended its recruitment efforts to Western females, asking them to join the movement in order to bear children for the new caliphate. Hundreds of females, predominantly between 16–24 years old, have been radicalized and abandoned their families, homes, and countries to join the jihad in the name of ISIL. At least one is as young as 13 years old.\n\nIn December 2014 the Iraqi Ministry of Human Rights announced that the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant had killed over 150 women and girls in Fallujah who refused to participate in sexual jihad.\n\nShortly after the death of US hostage Kayla Mueller was confirmed on 10 February 2015, several media outlets reported that the US intelligence community believed she may have been given as a wife to an ISIL fighter. In August 2015 it was confirmed that she had been forced into marriage to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who raped her repeatedly. \"The Washington Post\" reported that \"[t]he leader of the Islamic State personally kept a 26-year-old American woman [Mueller] as a hostage and raped her repeatedly.\" The Mueller family was informed by the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) that Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi had sexually abused Ms. Mueller, and that Ms. Mueller had also been tortured. Abu Sayyaf's widow, Umm Sayyaf, confirmed that it was her husband who had been Mueller's primary abuser.\n\n"}
{"id": "56926376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56926376", "title": "Sobha Aale", "text": "Sobha Aale\n\nSobha Aale() is a Nepali cricketer and Right-hand batswoman of Nepali National Cricket team. She has played in the 2014 Asian Games and 2016 Women's Twenty20 Asia Cup representing Nepal.\n"}
{"id": "171648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171648", "title": "Sophie's Choice (novel)", "text": "Sophie's Choice (novel)\n\nSophie's Choice is a 1979 novel by American author William Styron. It concerns the relationships between three people sharing a boarding house in Brooklyn: Stingo, a young aspiring writer from the South who befriends the Jewish scientist Nathan Landau and his lover Sophie, a Polish Catholic survivor of the German Nazi concentration camps.\n\n\"Sophie's Choice\" won the US National Book Award for Fiction in 1980. The novel was the basis of a 1982 film of the same name. It was controversial for the way in which it framed Styron's personal views regarding the Holocaust.\n\nStingo, a novelist who is recalling the summer when he began his first novel, has been fired from his low-level reader's job at the publisher McGraw-Hill and has moved into a cheap boarding house in Brooklyn, where he hopes to devote some months to his writing. While he is working on his novel, he is drawn into the lives of the lovers Nathan Landau and Sophie Zawistowska, fellow boarders at the house, who are involved in an intense and difficult relationship. Sophie is beautiful, Polish, and Catholic, and a survivor of the Holocaust and Nazi concentration camps; Nathan is a Jewish-American, and, purportedly, a genius. Although Nathan claims to be a Harvard graduate and a cellular biologist with a pharmaceutical company, it is later revealed that this is a fabrication. Almost no one—including Sophie and Stingo—knows that Nathan has paranoid schizophrenia. He sometimes behaves quite normally and generously, but there are times when he becomes frighteningly jealous, violent, abusive and delusional.\n\nAs the story progresses, Sophie tells Stingo of her past. She describes her violently anti-Semitic father, a law professor in Kraków; her unwillingness to help him spread his ideas; her arrest by the Nazis; and particularly, her brief stint as a stenographer-typist in the home of Rudolf Höss, the commander of Auschwitz, where she was interned. She specifically relates her attempts to seduce Höss in an effort to persuade him that her blond, blue-eyed, German-speaking son should be allowed to leave the camp and enter the Lebensborn program, in which he would be raised as a German child. She failed in this attempt and, ultimately, never learned of her son's fate. Only at the end of the book does the reader also learn what became of Sophie's daughter, named Eva.\n\nLater, Nathan's delusions have led him to believe that Stingo is having an affair with Sophie, and he threatens to kill them both.\n\nAs Sophie and Stingo attempt to flee New York, Sophie reveals her deepest, darkest secret: on the night that she arrived at Auschwitz, a camp doctor made her choose which of her two children would die immediately by gassing and which would continue to live, albeit in the camp. Of her two children, Sophie chose to sacrifice her seven-year-old daughter, Eva, in a heart-wrenching decision that has left her in mourning and filled with a guilt that she cannot overcome. By now alcoholic and deeply depressed, she is clearly willing to self-destruct with Nathan, who has already tried to persuade her to commit suicide with him. Despite the fact that Stingo proposes marriage to her, and despite a shared night that relieves Stingo of his virginity and fulfills many of his sexual fantasies, Sophie disappears, leaving only a note in which she says that she must return to Nathan.\n\nUpon arriving back in Brooklyn, Stingo is devastated to discover that Sophie and Nathan have committed suicide by ingesting sodium cyanide.\n\nSylvie Mathé notes that Styron's \"position\" in the writing of this novel was made clear in his contemporary interviews and essays, in the latter case, in particular \"Auschwitz\", \"Hell Reconsidered\", and \"A Wheel of Evil Come Full Circle\", and quotes Alvin Rosenfeld's summary of Styron's position, where Rosenfeld states that:\nRosenfeld, summarizing, states, \"The drift of these revisionist views, all of which culminate in Sophie's Choice, is to take the Holocaust out of Jewish and Christian history and place it within a generalized history of evil.\" Mathé reinforces Rosenfeld's conclusion with a quote from Styron himself, who stated in his \"Hell Reconsidered\" essay that \"the titanic and sinister forces at work in history and in modern life… threaten all men, not only Jews.\" She goes on to note that Styron's choices to represent these ideas, and to incorporate them so clearly into the narrative of his novel, resulted in polemic and controversy that continued, at least into the early years of the new millennium (see section on Controversy, below).\n\n\"Sophie’s Choice\" is partly based on the author's time in Brooklyn, where he met a refugee from Poland. He visited Auschwitz while researching the novel.\n\nA central element of the novel's plot, the personally catastrophic choice referred to in the title, is said to have been inspired by a story of a Romani woman who was ordered by the Nazis to select which of her children was to be put to death, which Styron attributes to Hannah Arendt's \"Eichmann in Jerusalem\". However, Ira Nadel claims that the story is found in Arendt's \"The Origins of Totalitarianism.\" In that book, Arendt argues that those who ran the camps perpetrated an \"attack on the moral person\":Totalitarian terror achieved its most terrible triumph when it succeeded in cutting the moral person off from the individualist escape and in making the decisions of conscience absolutely questionable and equivocal. (...) Who could solve the moral dilemma of the Greek mother, who was allowed by the Nazis to choose which of her three children should be killed?\n\nArendt herself cites Albert Camus' \"Twice a Year\" (1947) for the story (without providing a pinpoint reference). \"Twice a Year\" was a literary book which contained in its 1946/1947 publication the text of Camus's essay, \"The Human Crisis\", wherein four moral contradictions and dilemma are exampled, the Greek mother's exposure being one. Camus read this, his essay complete, at Columbia University March 28, 1946.\n\nIn his review of the novel in the \"New York Times,\" John Gardner takes it as an example of Southern Gothic and writes that it \"is a splendidly written, thrilling book, a philosophical novel on the most important subject of the 20th century. If it is not, for me, a hands‐down literary masterpiece, the reason is that, in transferring the form of the Southern Gothic to this vastly larger subject, Styron has been unable to get rid of or even noticeably tone down those qualities — some superficial, some deep — in the Southern Gothic that have always made Yankees squirm.\"\n\n\"Sophie's Choice\" won the US National Book Award for Fiction in 1980, against competition from \"Just Above My Head\" by James Baldwin, \"The Executioner's Song\" by Norman Mailer, \"The Ghost Writer\" by Philip Roth, and \"Endless Love\" by Scott Spencer (where the Pulitzer for fiction and the Nobel for literature for that year went, respectively, to Norman Mailer for \"Executioner's\" and to Czeslaw Milosz for his body of poetry and other work).\n\n\"Sophie's Choice\" generated significant controversy at time of its publication, in part due to Styron's decision to portray a non-Jewish victim of the Holocaust and in part due to its explicit sexuality and profanity; it was banned in South Africa, censored in the Soviet Union, and banned in Communist Poland for \"its unflinching portrait of Polish anti-Semitism\". The book contains several anti-Polish stereotypes. \n\nSylvie Mathé notes that \"Sophie’s Choice,\" which she refers to as a \"highly controversial novel,\" appeared in press in the year following the broadcast of the NBC miniseries \"Holocaust\" (1978), engendering a period in American culture where \"a newly-raised consciousness of the Holocaust was becoming a forefront public issue.\" She goes on to note that with regard to the Holocaust (Hebrew, \"Shoah\"):\n\nHere, the reference to a \"limit event\" (synonymous with \"limit case\" and \"limit situation\") is to a concept deriving at least from the early 1990s—Saul Friedländer, in introducing his \"Probing the Limits of Representation,\" quotes David Carroll, who refers to the Shoah as \"this limit case of knowledge and feeling\"—a concept that can be understood to mean an event or related circumstance or practice that is \"of such magnitude and profound violence\" that it \"rupture[s]... otherwise normative foundations of legitimacy and... civilising tendencies that underlie... political and moral community\" (the oft-cited formulation of Simone Gigliotti).\n\nThe controversy to which Mathé is specifically referring arises from a thematic analysis which—in apparent strong consensus (e.g., see Rosenfeld's 1979 work, \"The Holocaust According to William Styron\")—has Styron, through the novel, his interviews, and essays:\nthat is, it has him insisting on seeing Auschwitz in particular in more universal terms as \"a murderous thrust against 'the entire human family.'\" Styron further extends his argument, again with controversy:\n\nSpeaking of Styron's views as set forth in the novel and his nonfiction work, Rosenfeld refers to them as \"revisionist views\" that \"culminate in \"Sophie's Choice\"\" with an aim to \"take the Holocaust out of Jewish and Christian history and place it within a generalized history of evil\", and it is this specific revisionist thrust that is the substance of the novel's initial and persisting ability to engender controversy.\n\nIn 2002, Styron received the Auschwitz Jewish Center Foundation's Witness to Justice Award.\n\n\"Sophie's Choice\" has been banned in some high schools in the United States. For instance, the book was pulled from the La Mirada High School Library in California by the Norwalk-La Mirada High School District in 2002 because of a parent's complaint about its sexual content. However, a year after students protested and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) sent a letter to the school district requesting that the district reverse its actions, students were again given access to the book in the school library.\n\nThe novel was made into a film of the same name in the United States, in 1982. Written and directed by Alan J. Pakula, the film was nominated for Academy Awards for its screenplay, musical score, cinematography, and costume design, and Meryl Streep received the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance of the title role.\n\nThe British composer Nicholas Maw wrote an opera based on the novel, which was premiered at the Royal Opera House in London in 2002, and has also been performed in Washington, Berlin and Vienna.\n\n\nThe following of Styron's works have been collected, per Sylvie Mathé, as relevant to the author's philosophical framework with regard to his constructing the history and characters within his novel.\n\n\nThe following appear in ascending order, by original publication date, and within the same year, alphabetical by author:\n\n"}
{"id": "1035470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1035470", "title": "Stroke recovery", "text": "Stroke recovery\n\nThe primary goals of stroke management are to reduce brain injury and promote maximum patient recovery. Rapid detection and appropriate emergency medical care are essential for optimizing health outcomes. When available, patients are admitted to an acute stroke unit for treatment. These units specialize in providing medical and surgical care aimed at stabilizing the patient's medical status. Standardized assessments are also performed to aid in the development of an appropriate care plan. Current research suggests that stroke units may be effective in reducing in-hospital fatality rates and the length of hospital stays.\n\nOnce a patient is medically stable, the focus of their recovery shifts to rehabilitation. Some patients are transferred to in-patient rehabilitation programs, while others may be referred to out-patient services or home-based care. In-patient programs are usually facilitated by an interdisciplinary team that may include a physician, nurse, pharmacist, physical therapist, occupational therapist, speech and language pathologist, psychologist, and recreation therapist. The patient and their family/caregivers also play an integral role on this team. Family/caregivers that are involved in the patient care tend to be prepared for the caregiving role as the patient transitions from rehabilitation centers. While at the rehabilitation center, the interdisciplinary team makes sure that the patient attains their maximum functional potential upon discharge. The primary goals of this sub-acute phase of recovery include preventing secondary health complications, minimizing impairments, and achieving functional goals that promote independence in activities of daily living.\n\nIn the later phases of stroke recovery, patients are encouraged to participate in secondary prevention programs for stroke. Follow-up is usually facilitated by the patient’s primary care provider.\n\nThe initial severity of impairments and individual characteristics, such as motivation, social support, and learning ability, are key predictors of stroke recovery outcomes. Responses to treatment and overall recovery of function are highly dependent on the individual. Current evidence indicates that most significant recovery gains will occur within the first 12 weeks following a stroke.\n\nIn 1620, Johann Jakob Wepfer, by studying the brain of a pig, developed the theory that stroke was caused by an interruption of the flow of blood to the brain. After that, the focus became how to treat patients with stroke.\n\nFor most of the last century, people were discouraged from being active after a stroke. Around the 1950s, this attitude changed, and health professionals began prescription of therapeutic exercises for stroke patient with good results. At that point, a good outcome was considered to be achieving a level of independence in which patients are able to transfer from the bed to the wheelchair without assistance.\n\nIn the early 1950s, Twitchell began studying the pattern of recovery in stroke patients. He reported on 121 patients whom he had observed. He found that by four weeks, if there is some recovery of hand function, there is a 70% chance of making a full or good recovery. He reported that most recovery happens in the first three months, and only minor recovery occurs after six months. More recent research has demonstrated that significant improvement can be made years after the stroke.\n\nAround the same time, Brunnstrom also described the process of recovery, and divided the process into seven stages. As knowledge of the science of brain recovery improved, intervention strategies have evolved. Knowledge of strokes and the process of recovery after strokes has developed significantly in the late 20th century and early 21st century.\n\n\"Neurocognitive Rehabilitation by Carlo Perfetti concept\", widespread in many countries, is an original motor re-learning theories application.\n\nThe idea for constraint-induced therapy is at least 100 years old. Significant research was carried out by Robert Oden. He was able to simulate a stroke in a monkey's brain, causing hemiplegia. He then bound up the monkey's good arm, and forced the monkey to use his bad arm, and observed what happened. After two weeks of this therapy, the monkeys were able to use their once hemiplegic arms again. This is due to neuroplasticity. He did the same experiment without binding the arms, and waited six months past their injury. The monkeys without the intervention were not able to use the affected arm even six months later. In 1918, this study was published, but it received little attention.\n\nEventually, researchers began to apply his technique to stroke patients, and it came to be called constraint-induced movement therapy. Notably, the initial studies focused on chronic stroke patients who were more than 12 months past their stroke. This challenged the belief held at that time that no recovery would occur after one year. The therapy entails wearing a soft mitt on the good hand for 90% of the waking hours, forcing use of the affected hand. The patients undergo intense one-on-one therapy for six to eight hours per day for two weeks.\n\nEvidence that supports the use of constraint induced movement therapy has been growing since its introduction as an alternative treatment method for upper limb motor deficits found in stroke populations. Recently, constraint induced movement therapy has been shown to be an effective rehabilitation technique at varying stages of stroke recovery to improve upper limb motor function and use during daily activities of living. The greatest gains are seen among persons with stroke who exhibit some wrist and finger extension in the effected limb. Transcranial magnetic stimulation and brain imaging studies have demonstrated that the brain undergoes plastic changes in function and structure in patients that perform constraint induced movement therapy. These changes accompany the gains in motor function of the paretic upper limb. However, there is no established causal link between observed changes in brain function/structure and the motor gains due to constraint induced movement therapy.\n\nConstraint induced movement therapy has recently been modified to treat aphasia in patients post CVA as well. This treatment intervention is known as Constraint Induced Aphasia Therapy (CIAT). The same general principals apply, however in this case, the client is constricted from using compensatory strategies to communicate such as gestures, writing, drawing, and pointing, and are encouraged to use verbal communication. Therapy is typically carried out in groups and barriers are used so hands, and any compensatory strategies are not seen.\n\nMental practice of movements, has been shown in many studies to be effective in promoting recovery of both arm and leg function after a stroke. It is often used by physical or occupational therapists in the rehab or homehealth setting, but can also be used as part of a patient's independent home exercise program. Mental Movement Therapy is one product available for assisting patients with guided mental imagery.\n\nSuch work represents a paradigm shift in the approach towards rehabilitation of the stroke-injured brain away from pharmacologic flooding of neuronal receptors and instead, towards targeted physiologic stimulation. In layman's terms, this electrical stimulation mimics the action of healthy muscle to improve function and aid in retraining weak muscles and normal movement. Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) is commonly used in ‘foot-drop’ following stroke, but it can be used to help retrain movement in the arms or legs.\n\nIn patients undergoing rehabilitation with a stroke population or other central nervous system disorders (cerebral palsy, etc.), Bobath, also known as Neurodevelopmental Treatment (NDT), is often the treatment of choice in North America. The Bobath concept is best viewed as a framework for interpretation and problem solving of the individual patient’s presentation, along with their potential for improvement. Components of motor control that are specifically emphasized, are the integration of postural control and task performance, the control of selective movement for the production of coordinated sequences of movement and the contribution of sensory inputs to motor control and motor learning. Task practice is a component of a broad approach to treatment that includes in-depth assessment of the movement strategies utilized by the patient to perform tasks, and identification of specific deficits of neurological and neuromuscular functions. Many studies have been conducted comparing NDT with other treatment techniques such as proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF stretching), as well as conventional treatment approaches (utilizing traditional exercises and functional activities), etc. Despite being widely used, based on the literature, NDT has failed to demonstrate any superiority over other treatment techniques available. In fact, the techniques compared with NDT in these studies often produce similar results in terms of treatment effectiveness. Research has demonstrated significant findings for all these treatment approaches when compared with control subjects and indicate that overall, rehabilitation is effective. It is important to note, however, that the NDT philosophy of “do what works best” has led to heterogeneity in the literature in terms of what constitutes an NDT technique, thus making it difficult to directly compare to other techniques.\n\nMirror therapy (MT) has been employed with some success in treating stroke patients. Clinical studies that have combined mirror therapy with conventional rehabilitation have achieved the most positive outcomes. However, there is no clear consensus as to its effectiveness. In a recent survey of the published research, Rothgangel concluded thatIn stroke patients, we found a moderate quality of evidence that MT as an additional therapy improves recovery of arm function after stroke. The quality of evidence regarding the effects of MT on the recovery of lower limb functions is still low, with only one study reporting effects. In patients with CRPS and PLP, the quality of evidence is also low.\n\nThe terminal differentiation of some somatic stem cells has recently been called into question after studies of transplanted haematopoietic stem cells showed the development of myoblasts, endothelium, epithelium and neuroectodermal cells, suggesting pluripotency. These findings have led to MSCs being considered for treatment of ischemic stroke, specifically in directly enhancing neuroprotection and the neurorestorative processes of neurogenesis, angiogenesis and synaptic plasticity.\n\nTransdifferentiation of MSCs into excitable neuron-like cells has been shown to be possible in vitro and these cells respond to common central nervous system neurotransmitters. However, it is unlikely that this degree of transdifferentiation occurs in vivo and that <1% of injected MSCs become truly differentiated and integrate in the damaged area. This suggests that transdifferentiation of MSCs into neurons or neuron-like cells is not a major mechanism by which MSCs cause neurorestoration.\n\nInduction of neurogenesis (development of new neurons) is another possible mechanism of neurorestoration; however its correlation with functional improvement after stroke is not well established. The inducted cells likely originate from the ventricular zone, subventricular zone and choroid plexus, and migrate to the areas in their respective hemispheres which are damaged. Unlike the induction of neurogenesis, the induction of angiogenesis (development of new blood vessels) by MSCs has been associated with improvements in brain function after ischemic strokes and is linked to improved neuronal recruitment. In addition, synaptogenesis (formation of new synapses between neurons) has been shown to increase after MSC treatment; this combination of improved neurogenesis, angiogenesis and synaptogenesis may lead to a more significant functional improvement in damaged areas as a result of MSC treatment.\n\nMSC treatment also has shown to have various neuroprotective effects, including reductions in apoptosis, inflammation and demyelination, as well as increased astrocyte survival rates. MSC treatment also appears to improve the control of cerebral blood flow and blood–brain barrier permeability, as well as what is currently thought to be the most important mechanism of MSC treatment after stroke, the activation of endogenous neuroprotection and neurorestoration pathways by the release of cytokines and trophic factors.\n\nAlthough activation of endogenous neuroprotection and neurorestoration probably has a major part in the improvement of brain function after stroke, it is likely that the functional improvements as a result of MSC treatment are due to combined action via multiple cellular and molecular mechanisms to affect neurorestoration and neuroprotection, rather than just a single mechanism. These effects are also modulated by key variables, including the number of and type of MSCs used, timing of treatment relative to when the patient’s stroke occurred, route of delivery of the MSCs, as well as patient variables (e.g. age, underlying conditions).\n\nIf MSC treatment becomes available for stroke patients, it is possible that current mortality and morbidity rates could substantially improve due to the direct enhancement of neuroprotection and neurorestoration mechanisms rather than only indirect facilitation or prevention of further damage, e.g. decompressive surgery. However, for MSC treatment to be used effectively and safely in a clinical setting, more research needs to be conducted, specifically in the areas of determining the relative influences of key variables (especially patient variables) on patient outcomes as well quantifying potential risks, e.g. tumour formation. Although ethical concerns are mostly limited to the use of embryonic stem cells, it may also be important to address any possible ethical concerns (however unlikely) over the use of somatic stem cells.\n\nMuscles affected by the upper motor neuron syndrome have many potential features of altered performance including: weakness, decreased motor control, clonus (a series of involuntary rapid muscle contractions), exaggerated deep tendon reflexes, spasticity and decreased endurance.\nThe term \"spasticity\" is often erroneously used interchangeably with upper motor neuron syndrome, and it is not unusual to see patients labeled as spastic who demonstrate an array of UMN findings.\n\nIt has been estimated that approximately 65% of individuals develop spasticity following stroke, and studies have revealed that approximately 40% of stroke victims may still have spasticity at 12 months post-stroke. The changes in muscle tone probably result from alterations in the balance of inputs from reticulospinal and other descending pathways to the motor and interneuronal circuits of the spinal cord, and the absence of an intact corticospinal system. In other words, there is damage to the part of the brain or spinal cord that controls voluntary movement.\n\nVarious means are available for the treatment of the effects of the upper motor neuron syndrome. These include: exercises to improve strength, control and endurance, nonpharmacologic therapies, oral drug therapy, intrathecal drug therapy, injections, and surgery.\nWhile Landau suggests that researchers do not believe that treating spasticity is worthwhile, many scholars and clinicians continue to attempt to manage/treat it.\n\nAnother group of researchers concluded that while spasticity may contribute to significant motor and activity impairments post-stroke, the role of spasticity has been overemphasized in stroke rehabilitation.\nIn a survey done by the National Stroke Association, while 58 percent of survivors in the survey experienced spasticity, only 51 percent of those had received treatment for the condition.\n\nTreatment should be based on assessment by the relevant health professionals. For muscles with mild-to-moderate impairment, exercise should be the mainstay of management, and is likely to need to be prescribed by a physiotherapist.\n\nMuscles with severe impairment are likely to be more limited in their ability to exercise and may require help to do this. They may require additional interventions, to manage the greater neurological impairment and also the greater secondary complications. These interventions may include serial casting, flexibility exercise such as sustained positioning programs, and patients may require equipment, such as using a standing frame to sustain a standing position. Applying specially made Lycra garments may also be beneficial.\n\nPhysiotherapy is beneficial in this area as it helps post-stroke individuals to progress through the stages of motor recovery. These stages were originally described by Twitchell and Brunnstrom, and may be known as the Brunnstrom Approach. Initially, post-stroke individuals have flaccid paralysis. As recovery begins, and progresses, basic movement synergies will develop into more complex and difficult movement combinations. Concurrently, spasticity may develop and become quite severe before it begins to decline (if it does at all). Although an overall pattern of motor recovery exists, there is much variability between each individual’s recovery. As previously described, the role of spasticity in stroke rehabilitation is controversial. However, physiotherapy can help to improve motor performance, in part, through the management of spasticity.\n\nUnaddressed spasticity will result in the maintenance of abnormal resting limb postures which can lead to contracture formation. In the arm, this may interfere with hand hygiene and dressing, whereas in the leg, abnormal resting postures may result in difficulty transferring. In order to help manage spasticity, physiotherapy interventions should focus on modifying or reducing muscle tone. Strategies include mobilizations of the affected limbs early in rehabilitation, along with elongation of the spastic muscle and sustained stretching. In addition, the passive manual technique of rhythmic rotation can help to increase initial range. Activating the antagonist (muscle) in a slow and controlled movement is a beneficial training strategy that can be used by post-stroke individuals. Splinting, to maintain muscle stretch and provide tone inhibition, and cold (i.e. in the form of ice packs), to decrease neural firing, are other strategies that can be used to temporarily decrease the extent of spasticity. The focus of physiotherapy for post-stroke individuals is to improve motor performance, in part, through the manipulation of muscle tone.\n\nOral medications used for the treatment of spasticity include: diazepam (Valium), dantrolene sodium, baclofen, tizanidine, clonidine, gabapentin, and even cannabinoid-like compounds.³ The exact mechanism of these medications is not fully understood, but they are thought to act on neurotransmitters or neuromodulators within the central nervous system (CNS) or muscle itself, or to decrease the stretch reflexes. The problem with these medications is their potential side effects and the fact that, other than lessening painful or disruptive spasms and dystonic postures, drugs in general have not been shown to decrease impairments or lessen disabilities.\n\nIntrathecal administration of drugs involves the implantation of a pump that delivers medication directly to the CNS. The benefit of this is that the drug remains in the spinal cord, without traveling in the bloodstream, and there are often fewer side effects. The most commonly used medication for this is baclofen but morphine sulfate and Fentanyl have been used as well, mainly for severe pain as a result of the spasticity.\n\nInjections are focal treatments administered directly into the spastic muscle. Drugs used include: Botulinum toxin (BTX), phenol, alcohol, and lidocaine. Phenol and alcohol cause local muscle damage by denaturing protein, and thus relaxing the muscle. Botulinum toxin is a neurotoxin and it relaxes the muscle by preventing the release of a neurotransmitter (acetylcholine). Many studies have shown the benefits of BTX and it has also been demonstrated that repeat injections of BTX show unchanged effectiveness.\n\nSurgical treatment for spasticity includes lengthening or releasing of muscle and tendons, procedures involving bones, and also selective dorsal rhizotomy. Rhizotomy, usually reserved for severe spasticity, involves cutting selective sensory nerve roots, as they probably play a role in generating spasticity.\n\nHemiplegic shoulder pain (shoulder pain on the stroke-affected side of the body) is a common source of pain and dysfunction following stroke. The cause (etiology) of hemiplegic shoulder pain remains unclear, Possible causes may include shoulder subluxation, muscle contractures, spasticity, rotator cuff disorders or impingement, and complex regional pain syndrome. Overall, the shoulder is very mobile, and relies on muscles and ligaments to support it, therefore, if a stroke damages the neurons that control those muscles and ligaments, the whole joint will be affected and pain may result.\n\nAnalgesics (ibuprofen and acetaminophen) may offer some pain relief for generalized hemiplegic shoulder pain. For people with spasticity associated shoulder pain, botulinum toxin injections into the shoulder muscles has also been shown to provide significant pain relief and improve range of motion. Subacromial corticosteroid injections can be effective for people with shoulder pain related to injury/inflammation of the rotator cuff region.\n\nThere are several non-pharmacological interventions which are recommended for prevention and treatment of post-stroke hemiplegic shoulder pain. These include proper positioning, range of motion exercises, motor retraining, and adjuvant therapies like neuromuscular electric stimulation (NMES) (e.g. functional electric stimulation (FES)). The use of slings remains controversial. Functional electric stimulation FES is a NMES technique where nerves or muscles affected by stroke receive bursts of low-level electrical current. The goal of FES is to strengthen muscle contraction and improve motor control. It may be effective in reducing subluxation and the pain associated with subluxation. Different slings are available to manage shoulder subluxation. However, the use of slings remains controversial and may increase the risk of adverse effects on symmetry and balance between the left and right shoulders, and can impact peoples’ body image.\n\nGlenohumeral (or shoulder) subluxation is defined as a partial or incomplete dislocation of the shoulder joint that typically results from changes in the mechanical integrity of the joint. Subluxation is a common problem with hemiplegia, or weakness of the musculature of the upper limb. Traditionally this has been thought to be a significant cause of post-stroke shoulder pain, although a few recent studies have failed to show a direct correlation between shoulder subluxation and pain.\n\nThe exact cause of subluxation in post-stroke patients is unclear but appears to be caused by weakness of the musculature supporting the shoulder joint. The shoulder is one of the most mobile joints in the body. To provide a high level of mobility the shoulder sacrifices ligamentous stability and as a result relies on the surrounding musculature (i.e., rotator cuff muscles, latissimus dorsi, and deltoid) for much of its support. This is in contrast to other less mobile joints such as the knee and hip, which have a significant amount of support from the joint capsule and surrounding ligaments. If a stroke damages the upper motor neurons controlling muscles of the upper limb, weakness and paralysis, followed by spasticity occurs in a somewhat predictable pattern. The muscles supporting the shoulder joint, particularly the supraspinatus and posterior deltoid become flaccid and can no longer offer adequate support leading to a downward and outward movement of arm at the shoulder joint causing tension on the relatively weak joint capsule. Other factors have also been cited as contributing to subluxation such as pulling on the hemiplegic arm and improper positioning.\n\nDiagnosis can usually be made by palpation or by feeling the joint and surrounding tissues, although there is controversy as to whether or not the degree of subluxation can be measured clinically. If shoulder subluxation occurs, it can become a barrier to the rehabilitation process. Treatment involves measures to support the subluxed joint such as taping the joint, using a lapboard or armboard. A shoulder sling may be used, but is controversial and a few studies have shown no appreciable difference in range-of-motion, degree of subluxation, or pain when using a sling. A sling may also contribute to contractures and increased flexor tone if used for extended periods of time as it places the arm close to the body in adduction, internal rotation and elbow flexion. Use of a sling can also contribute to learned nonuse by preventing the functional and spontaneous use of the affected upper extremity. That said, a sling may be necessary for some therapy activities. Slings may be considered appropriate during therapy for initial transfer and gait training, but overall use should be limited. As the patient begins to recover, spasticity and voluntary movement of the shoulder will occur as well as reduction in the shoulder subluxation. Slings are of no value at this point.\n\nFunctional electrical stimulation (FES) has also shown promising results in treatment of subluxation, and reduction of pain, although some studies have shown a return of pain after discontinuation of FES. More recent research has failed to show any reduction of pain with the use of FES.\n\nLogical treatment consists of preventive measures such as early range of motion, proper positioning, passive support of soft tissue structures and possibly early re-activation of shoulder musculature using functional electrical stimulation. Aggressive exercises such as overhead pulleys should be avoided with this population.\n\nChronic pain syndromes are common in about one half of stroke patients. Central post-stroke pain (CPSP) is neuropathic pain which is caused by damage to the neurons in the brain (central nervous system), as the result of a vascular injury. One study found that up to 8% of people who have had a stroke will develop central post-stroke pain, and that the pain will be moderate to severe in 5% of those affected. The condition was formerly called \"thalamic pain\", because of the high incidence among those with damage to the thalamus or thalamic nuclei. Now known as CPSP, it is characterized by perceived pain from non-painful stimuli, such as temperature and light touch. This altered perception of stimuli, or allodynia, can be difficult to assess due to the fact that the pain can change daily in description and location, and can appear anywhere from months to years after the stroke. CPSP can also lead to a heightened central response to painful sensations, or hyperpathia. Affected persons may describe the pain as cramping, burning, crushing, shooting, pins and needles, and even bloating or urinary urgency. Both the variation and mechanism of pain in CPSP have made it difficult to treat. Several strategies have been employed by physicians, including intravenous lidocaine, opioids/narcotics, anti-depressants, anti-epileptic medications and neurosurgical procedures with varying success. Higher rates of successful pain control in persons with CPSP can be achieved by treating other sequelae of stroke, such as depression and spasticity. As the age of the population increases, the diagnosis and management of CPSP will become increasingly important to improve the quality of life of an increasing number of stroke survivors.\n\nAn uncommon, less understood result of stroke is a condition called apraxia. This condition was initially recognized as: 'Disorders of the execution of learned movements which cannot be accounted for by either weakness, incoordination, or sensory loss, nor by incomprehension of, or inattention to commands.' Several forms of apraxia are recognized. Limb-kinetic apraxia is the inability to make precise or exact movements with a finger, an arm or a leg. idiomotor apraxia is the inability to carry out a command from the brain to mimic limb or head movements performed or suggested by others. Conceptual apraxia is similar to idiomotor apraxia, but infers a more profound malfunctioning in which the function of tools or objects is no longer understood. Ideational apraxia is the inability to create a plan for a specific movement. Buccofacial apraxia, or facial-oral apraxia, is the inability to coordinate and carry out facial and lip movements such as whistling, winking, coughing, etc. on command. Constructional apraxia affects the person’s ability to draw or copy simple diagrams, or to construct simple figures. Oculomotor apraxia is a condition in which the patient finds it difficult to move his/her eyes. Many believe that the most common form of apraxia is idiomotor apraxia, in which a disconnection between the area of the brain containing plans for a movement and the area of the brain that is responsible for executing that movement occurs.\n\nUnlike many effects of stroke, where the clinician is able to judge the particular area of the brain that a stroke has injured by certain signs or symptoms, the causation of apraxia is less clear. A common theory is that the part of the brain that contains information for previously learned skilled motor activities has been either lost or cannot be accessed. The condition is usually due to an insult to the dominant hemisphere of the brain. More often this is located in the frontal lobe of the left hemisphere of the brain. Treatment of acquired apraxia due to stroke usually consists of physical, occupational, and speech therapy. The Copenhagen Stroke Study, which is a large important study published in 2001, showed that out of 618 stroke patients, manual apraxia was found in 7% and oral apraxia was found in 6%. Both manual and oral apraxia were related to increasing severity of stroke. Oral apraxia was related with an increase in age at the time of the stroke. There was no difference in incidence among gender. It was also found that the finding of apraxia has no negative influence on ability to function after rehabilitation is completed. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is currently sponsoring a clinical trial to gain an understanding of how the brain operates while carrying out and controlling voluntary motor movements in normal subjects. The objective is to determine what goes wrong with these processes in the course of acquired apraxia due to stroke or brain injury.\n\nLateral medullary syndrome, also known as Wallenberg's syndrome, is caused by blockage of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) or the vertebral arteries. Signs and symptoms include decreased pain and temperature on the same side of the face and opposite side of the body compared to the lesion, ataxia on the same side of the lesion, and Horner's syndrome on the same side of the face.\n\nTreatment in the acute setting is mostly focused on symptomatic management. After initial treatment in the hospital, some patients will need short-term placement in a nursing home or rehabilitation facility before going home. In hospital settings the doctors work with speech pathologists in issues like these. Typically, a commonly used tool to assess the degree of severity of dysphagia and speech issues is the Barnes Jewish Hospital Stroke Dysphagia Screen, which offers a validated guide to assessing plan of action (solid food diet, all liquid diet, IV hydration, etc.) for the patient while in the hospital and the proper course of action in the outpatient setting. Rehabilitation in Wallenberg’s Syndrome focuses on improving balance, coordination, working on activities of daily living, and improving speech and swallowing function. Severe nausea and vertigo can be present and limit progress in rehabilitation and recovery. Symptomatic treatment with anti-emetics and medications for the hiccups are important. Commonly used anti-emetics include ondansetron, metoclopramide, prochlorperazine, and promethazine. These medications are also used to treat hiccups, along with chlorpromazine. There are case reports of other medications useful in treating hiccups in Wallenberg’s Syndrome including baclofen and anti-epileptic medications. The prognosis for someone with lateral medullary syndrome depends upon the size and location of damaged area of the brain stem. Some individuals recover quickly while others may have significant neurological disabilities for months to years after the initial injury.\n\n\nDepression is a commonly reported consequence of stroke and is seen in 25–50% of patients. The \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual\" (DSM-IV-TR) defines post-stroke depression as \"a mood disorder due to a general medical condition (i.e. stroke) that is judged to be due to the direct physiological effects of [that] condition\". Post-stroke depression may involve depressed mood and decreased interest and pleasure that impairs social and occupational functioning, but does not necessarily need to meet the full criteria of a major depressive disorder.\n\nThe first studies to look for an association between specific stroke lesions and the occurrence of depression reported a correlation between left frontal lesions and major depression. Damage to the frontal noradrenergic, dopaminergic, and serotonergic projections were thought to cause a depletion of catecholamines, leading to depression. However, more recent studies have demonstrated that the anatomic aspects of a lesion do not necessarily correlate with the occurrence of depression. Other psychological factors can lead to the development of depression including personal and social losses related to the physical disabilities often caused by a stroke.\n\nThe incidence of post-stroke depression peaks at 3–6 months and usually resolves within 1–2 years after the stroke, although a minority of patients can go on to develop chronic depression. The diagnosis of post-stroke depression is complicated by other consequences of stroke such as fatigue and psychomotor retardation – which do not necessarily indicate the presence of depression. Loss of interest in activities and relationships should prompt an evaluation for depression.\n\nTraditionally, tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), such as nortriptyline, have been used in the treatment of post-stroke depression. More recently, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), such as fluoxetine and citalopram, have become the pharmacologic therapy of choice due to the lower incidence of side effects. Also, psychologic treatment such as cognitive behavioral therapy, group therapy, and family therapy are reported to be useful adjuncts to treatment.\n\nOverall, the development of post-stroke depression can play a significant role in a patient’s recovery from a stroke. The severity of post-stroke depression has been associated with severity of impairment in activities of daily living (ADLs). By effectively treating depression, patients experience a greater recovery of basic ADLs such as dressing, eating and ambulating, as well as instrumental ADLs, such as the ability to take care of financial and household matters. In essence, recognition and treatment of post-stroke depression leads to greater functional ability for the patient over time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21024824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21024824", "title": "The Boston Foundation", "text": "The Boston Foundation\n\nThe Boston Foundation, founded in 1915, is one of the oldest and largest community foundations in the United States. Serving the Greater Boston area, it is made up of some 1,000 separate charitable funds established by thousands of donors over more than 100 years. Funds are established either for the general benefit of the community or for special purposes, such as supporting individual nonprofit organizations in perpetuity. With some $1 billion in assets, today the Foundation is one of the largest funders in New England. The Foundation and its donors make more than $100 million in grants every year. Since 2001, the Boston Foundation has also served as a major civic leader by commissioning and publishing research, providing a platform for discussion related to a wide range of challenges facing Greater Boston and the region and contributing to the development of public policy. \n\nThe Boston Foundation was founded in 1915 by Charles E. and Charles M. Rogerson, who were father and son. Originally called the Permanent Charity Fund, it was one of the first community foundations in the United States, but, thanks to a bequest of $4 million shortly after it was launched, it was the first with the resources to begin grant making. In 1959 another large bequest of $20 million catapulted the Foundation into an era during which it made early investments in some of the most important nonprofit institutions in Boston, from WGBH to the New England Aquarium to the clean up of Boston Harbor. 1985, the foundation was renamed the Boston Foundation, and Anna Faith Jones became the President—the first African-American woman to lead a major foundation in the United States. Today, it is led by President and CEO, Paul S. Grogan, who is credited with transforming the Foundation into a major civic leader for the city and region.\n\nAs Greater Boston’s community foundation since 1915, the Boston Foundation devotes its resources to building and sustaining a vital, prosperous city and region, where justice and opportunity are extended to everyone. It fulfills this mission in three principal ways: \n\nThe Foundation is overseen by a 20-member Board of Directors, selected to represent diverse community interests. The staff includes professionals in grant making, philanthropy, finance and administration, public policy and communications.\n\nOver more than 100 years of grantmaking, the Foundation has been there at the beginning for numerous fresh ideas and new institutions by providing crucial seed capital and other support. Among its greatest accomplishments are grants that helped to launch WGBH-TV, now considered the nation’s premier public television station. It also made an early investment in the redevelopment of Faneuil Hall into a thriving marketplace, often credited with sparking the renewal of Boston in recent decades; and helped to shape Boston’s Longwood Medical Center area. The Foundation invested in the most extensive network of community health centers in the nation and made grants to a group called Save the Harbor/Save the Bay to clean up Boston Harbor. What was once one of the filthiest harbors in the world is now one of the cleanest. It also made early grants to numerous organizations that started in Boston and spread throughout the country, like City Year, Citizen Schools and Year Up.\n\nToday, the Foundation and its donors make grants each year to hundreds of nonprofits in Greater Boston, across the country and around the world. In addition to placing a special strategic focus on the areas of Education, Health and Wellness, Jobs and Economic Development, Neighborhoods and Housing, and Arts and Culture. It also provides leadership for special initiatives, such as the Success Boston College Completion Initiative and SkillWorks.\n\nThrough its Understanding Boston series, the Boston Foundation commissions research from universities, think tanks and other organizations and shares this information through a series of forums that are attended by thousands of people every year. Issues addressed through Understanding Boston embrace a broad range of issues, including public education, housing, the workforce, health, philanthropy and the nonprofit sector, the arts and the urban environment.\n\nIn addition to providing fresh information and bringing people together to discuss findings, the Foundation also creates Task Forces and Action Agendas to produce positive change. A number of issues have been influenced by this process. The Commonwealth Housing Task Force created a Smart Growth housing effort to address the current shortage of housing in the state. The program has led to dozens of towns and cities building thousands of new units of housing. The Foundation’s civic leadership also helped lead to the Massachusetts Cultural Facilities Fund, which has provided millions in state funding for cultural facilities. Its work examining the current Criminal Offender Record Information (CORI) system has led to a complete re-evaluation of the system by state law makers. The Foundation’s research and public information campaign related to public education has influenced former Governor Deval Patrick's approach to education across the state. Other issues that have benefited from the Foundation’s civic leadership includea new collaborative for the life sciences, issues related to health and health care and the revenue-raising capacity of Massachusetts cities.\n\nBoston Indicators is a research center at the Boston Foundation that seeks a thriving Greater Boston for all residents across all neighborhoods. They do this by analyzing key indicators of well-being and by researching promising ideas for making Boston more prosperous, equitable and just. To ensure that the Indicators work informs active efforts to improve our city, they work in deep partnership with community groups, civic leaders and Boston’s civic data community to produce special reports and host public convenings.\n\n"}
{"id": "30020699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30020699", "title": "The Quantum Thief", "text": "The Quantum Thief\n\nThe Quantum Thief is the debut science fiction novel by Hannu Rajaniemi and the first novel in a trilogy featuring Jean le Flambeur; the sequels are \"The Fractal Prince\" (2012) and \"The Causal Angel\" (2014). It was published in Britain by Gollancz in 2010, and by Tor in 2011 in the US. It is a heist story, set in a futuristic solar system, that features a protagonist modeled on Arsène Lupin, the gentleman thief of Maurice Leblanc.\n\nThe novel was nominated for the 2011 Locus Award for Best First Novel, and was second runner-up for the 2011 Campbell Memorial Award.\n\nThe novel is set in a post-human future solar system. Jean le Flambeur is a legendary thief who has been imprisoned in a Dilemma Prison, a virtual jail of the Sobornost created by the Archons, themselves the creation of the Engineer-of-Souls. During an unsuccessful encounter with the All-Defector, he is sprung from his prison in the Neptunian Trojan belt by Mieli, a warrior from the Oort cloud, and taken to her ship, \"Perhonen\". There, he finds out that his freedom comes at a price: he must return to his old criminal ways to steal something for Mieli's employer, the pellegrini. First, however, he has to retrieve his previous memories, which he had meticulously hidden in the Oubliette, one of the Moving Cities of Mars.\n\nIn the Oubliette, Isidore Beautrelet is unraveling a Gogol piracy case, brought to his attention by his tzaddik mentor, The Gentleman. Isidore is an architecture student and only ten Martian years old, but he has accumulated a reputation as a sharp detective. This case, however, exposes him to unwanted fame, which is extremely gauche in polite Oubliette society, where even people who share a flat remain discreetly behind a cloud of \"gevulot\" to avoid the faux pas of violating each other's privacy. Notoriety, however, brought him to the attention of a new client, the millenniaire Christian Unruh. Unruh is about to host a party to commemorate his early entry into Quiet, but a note has appeared under impossible circumstances in his mansion, which Unruh asks Isidore to investigate. The note announces an unlikely gate-crasher to the party: Jean le Flambeur.\n\nThemes central to \"The Quantum Thief\" are the unreliability and malleability of memory and the effects of extreme longevity on an individual's perspective and personality. Prisons, surveillance and control in society are also major themes.\n\nIn the book, the people living in the Oubliette society on Mars have two types of memory; in addition to a traditional, personal memory, there is the exomemory, which can be accessed by other people, from anywhere in the city. Memories about personal experiences can be stored in the exomemory and partitioned, with different levels of access granted to different people. These memories can be used, among other things, as an expedient form of communication.\n\nThe Oubliette society has an economy where time is used as currency. When an individual's time is expended, their consciousness is uploaded into a \"Quiet\". The Quiet are mute machine servants who maintain and protect the city. Although the quiet seem to have little interest in the world outside their occupations, they do seem to retain some traces of their former personalities and memories.\n\nThe conspiracy central to the plot involves the hidden rulers, called the \"cryptarchs\", manipulating and abusing the exomemory and through the citizens' transformations to quiet and back, the traditional memory as well. In the book, the Oubliette society is compared to a panopticon; a prison, where every action of the dwellers can be scrutinized.\n\nThe first chapter of \"The Quantum Thief\" was presented by Rajaniemi's literary agent, John Jarrold, to Gollancz as the basis for the three-book deal that was eventually secured. Rajaniemi has stated that he had \"come up with an outline that had every single idea I could cram into it, because I wanted to be worthy of what had happened.\" The outline eventually expanded into three parts, and the first part became \"The Quantum Thief\".\n\nThe novel's plot was inspired by one of Rajaniemi's favorite characters in fiction, Maurice Leblanc's gentleman thief Arsène Lupin, who operates on both sides of the law. What intrigued Rajaniemi were the cycles of redemption and relapse Lupin goes through as he tries to go straight, always falling short. Besides LeBlanc, Rajaniemi mentioned Roger Zelazny as a strong influence. Ian McDonald was the other SF author he mentioned as influential, plus Frances A.Yates's book \"The Art of Memory\", for memory palaces.\n\nIn an interview, Rajaniemi said he wasn't trying to write the novel as hard SF: \"For me, the more important consequence of having a scientific background is a degree of speculative rigour: trying hard to work out the consequences of the assumptions one begins with.\"\n\nThe novel has received generally positive reviews. Gary K. Wolfe writes in his \"Locus\" review that Rajaniemi has \"spectacularly delivered on the promise that this is likely the most important debut SF novel we'll see this year\". James Lovegrove, reviewing the book in his \"Financial Times\" column, notes that \"many an anglophone author would kill to turn out prose half as good as this, especially on their maiden effort.\" Eric Brown, reviewing for \"The Guardian\", finds the novel to be \"a brilliant debut\", while alluding to the \"apocryphal\" (and incorrect) myth that \"this novel sold on the strength of its first line.\" Sam Bandah, at \"SciFiNow\", praises the novel for \"its engaging narrative and characters backed by often almost intimidatingly good sci-fi concepts.\"\n\nCriticism for the novel has generally centred on Rajaniemi's sparse \"show, don't tell\" writing style. Brown notes that \"the author makes no concessions to the lazy reader with info-dumps or convenient explanations.\" Niall Alexander, of the Speculative Scotsman, states that \"had there been some sort of index, [he] would have gladly (and repeatedly) referred to it during the mind-boggling first third of \"The Quantum Thief\", while proclaiming the novel to be \"the\" sci-fi debut of 2010.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34011819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34011819", "title": "Tich (dog)", "text": "Tich (dog)\n\nTich (1940–1959) was a mixed-breed military dog during the Second World War. She was awarded the Dickin Medal in 1949 for her actions during the war as a battalion mascot to the King's Royal Rifle Corps. The Dickin Medal is considered to be the animal's Victoria Cross. After the war she lived with her battalion handler at his home in the UK. After she died she was buried in the People's Dispensary for Sick Animals (PDSA)'s Ilford Animal Cemetery.\n\nDuring the fighting in the Western Desert Campaign during the Second World War in 1941, a small cross-breed dog was found by soldiers of the 1st Battalion King's Royal Rifle Corps. Named \"Tich\" and nicknamed \"The Desert Rat\", she acted as a mascot to the Battalion. In 1943, the dog was passed to Rifleman Thomas Walker. The dog accompanied Walker whilst on the front line, riding usually on the bonnet of a bren gun carrier or a jeep. \n\nIn 1944, she was smuggled aboard the ship that took the battalion to Italy and whilst on board had puppies. Walker was awarded the Military Medal for his work as a battlefield medic whilst under fire. On each occasion where he was in danger, Tich remained by his side. 1KRRC's commanding officer, Lieutenant-Colonel E.A.W. Williams recommended Tich for the Dickin Medal stating, \"Her courage and devotion to duty were of very real and considerable value and her courageous example materially helped many men to keep their heads and sense of proportion in times of extreme danger. The sight of her put heart in the men as she habitually rode on the bonnet of her master’s jeep and refused to leave her post even when bringing in wounded under heavy fire.\" The Dickin Medal is considered to be the animal's Victoria Cross. \n\nHer Dickin Medal was dated 1 July 1949, with it being awarded to her by Major Peter Earle, MC, on 3 September 1949 at Wembley in front of eight thousand people during the Animals' Rally. Her citation reads, \"For loyalty, courage and devotion to duty under hazardous conditions of war 1941 to 1945, while serving with the 1st King's Rifle Corps in North Africa and Italy.\"\n\nThe Dickin Medal is often referred to as the animal metaphorical equivalent of the Victoria Cross.\n\nTich gave birth to fifteen puppies during her life, and lived after the war with Walker at his home in Newcastle, England. Together they took part in fundraising activities for the People's Dispensary for Sick Animals, the issuing body for the Dickin Medal. She died in 1959, and was buried at the PDSA's Ilford Animal Cemetery where several other Dickin Medal holders are interred. Her Dickin Medal was passed into the hands of the Royal Green Jackets (Rifles) Museum in Winchester.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "371724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371724", "title": "Truncation selection", "text": "Truncation selection\n\nIn animal and plant breeding, truncation selection is a standard method in selective breeding in selecting animals to be bred for the next generation. Animals are ranked by their phenotypic value on some trait such as milk production, and the top percentage is reproduced. The effects of truncation selection for a continuous trait can be modeled by the standard breeder's equation by using heritability and truncated normal distributions; on a binary trait, it can be modeled easily using the liability threshold model. It is considered an easy and efficient method of breeding.\n\nIn computer science, truncation selection is a selection method used in genetic algorithms to select potential candidate solutions for recombination modeled after the breeding method.\n\nIn truncation selection the candidate solutions are ordered by fitness, and some proportion, \"p\", (e.g. \"p\" = 1/2, 1/3, etc.), of the fittest individuals are selected and reproduced 1/p times. Truncation selection is less sophisticated than many other selection methods, and is not often used in practice. It is used in Muhlenbein's Breeder Genetic Algorithm.\n\n"}
{"id": "23647264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23647264", "title": "Umpire abuse", "text": "Umpire abuse\n\nUmpire abuse refers to the act of abuse towards an umpire, referee, or other official in sport. The abuse can be verbal abuse (such as namecalling), or physical abuse (such as punching). For example, Australian Football League spectators use the term \"white maggot\" (derived from their formerly white uniforms) towards umpires at games, when they do not agree with an umpire's decision.\n\nUmpire abuse has become quite common in sport, practiced by players, coaches and spectators, with one Australian Football league having half the tribunal cases heard about umpire abuse. There have also been some high-profile cases of abuse towards the umpires in sport, with one Australian football player suspended for life after striking an umpire.\n\nIn 1996, Major League Baseball (MLB) player Roberto Alomar spat in umpire John Hirschbeck's face during a dispute. Alomar received a five-game suspension for the incident, but the punishment was served during the following season, and not the 1996 playoffs. MLB umpires, upset over the lack of an immediate suspension, threatened to go on strike before a federal judge prevented them from doing so.\n\nDuring the 2008 Beijing Olympics, Angel Valodia Matos from Cuba pushed and then kicked a referee in the face during a Taekwondo match. He was disqualified for taking too much injury time in the bronze medal match by referee Chakir Chelbat, before kicking Chelbat in the face. The referee required stitches in his lip after the attack. The World Taekwondo Federation has banned Matos and his coach from taekwondo competitions for life.\n\nIn 2016, Mark Jamar, an Essendon AFL player has been fined $1500 for umpire abuse. The umpire, Mathew Nicholls, reported Jamar after he expressed his annoyance that he wasn't awarded a free kick in a marking contest.\n\nLeagues and the like are trying to stop abuse towards umpires.\n\nIn Australian Rules Football, attempting to strike or striking an umpire, abusing or threatening an umpire, or disputing an umpires decision is a reportable offense, per the Laws of Australian Football. It is also possible to send a player off for up to the remainder of the game for abusing an umpire, however this is only usually practiced at amateur and junior level. There have also been other programs trailed, such as making players suspended for umpire abuse attend umpire training sessions.\n\nIn cricket, the preamble to the Laws of Cricket state that it is not within the spirit of cricket to abuse an umpire, and to dispute their decisions.\n\nIn ice hockey, it is against the rules to dispute a referee's decision, although the team captains can skate out and discuss the calls with the referees and linesmen. After a warning (and a minor penalty), arguing with a referee, or starting a fight with a referee is grounds for a game misconduct, which results in ejection for the offending player or coach.\n\nIn baseball, it is against the rules for any coach, manager, or player to question the umpire's judgement on a call on the field, or on balls and strikes. If a coach, manager, or player begins to walk toward the umpire with the intent to argue a call or balls and strikes, he will be warned to return to his bench or position. If he continues to advance, he will be ejected.\n\nIn the criminal justice system, some jurisdictions mandate more severe penalties when a person commits a crime against a sports official immediately prior to, during, or immediately following any athletic contest in which the umpire, referee, or judge is participating in an official capacity. For instance, in the State of California, Section 243.8 of the Penal Code specifies that Battery against a sports official shall result in a fine that does not exceed more than $2000, or imprisonment with the sentence not exceeding one year. Battery against a sports official has more severe penalties than simple battery against a civilian, as in Section 243. California's maximum incarceration penalty for Battery on a Sports Official is twice as lengthy as the maximum sentence for Simple Battery.\n"}
{"id": "5447420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5447420", "title": "Unsportsmanlike conduct", "text": "Unsportsmanlike conduct\n\nUnsportsmanlike conduct (also called unsporting behaviour or ungentlemanly conduct or bad sportsmanship or poor sportsmanship) is a foul or offense in many sports that violates the sport's generally accepted rules of sportsmanship and participant conduct. Examples include verbal abuse or taunting of an opponent, an excessive celebration following a scoring play, or feigning injury. The official rules of many sports include a catch-all provision whereby participants or an entire team may be penalized or otherwise sanctioned for unsportsmanlike conduct.\n\nIn American football, unsportsmanlike conduct results in a 15-yard penalty, assessed after the completion of a play. When it occurs after a scoring play, the 10 or 15 yards are assessed on the kickoff. Situations that can incur such a penalty include excessive celebrations after plays, often involving props or multiple players or engaging in taunting against an opponent; a player's purposeful removal of his helmet anywhere in the field of play during or in between plays; or if a substitute leaves the team bench during a fight. Unsportsmanlike conduct can also lead to players or officials being ejected from the game if the conduct is found to be flagrant. In the NCAA, NFL, two unsportsmanlike conduct fouls lead to the offender's ejection. The referee signals unsportsmanlike conduct by holding his arms outstretched with palms facing downward. Coaches can also receive an unsportsmanlike-conduct penalty for taunting, arguing with, or abusing officials, one of the few times a coach's actions can be penalized outside of the rare palpably unfair act penalty; but can't be ejected. In Canadian football, the equivalent penalty is objectionable conduct and only carries a 10-yard penalty. Indoor American football leagues, because of the shorter field, also assign a 10-yard penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct.\n\nIn association football, the term \"unsporting behaviour\" is more commonly used, being one of the listed reasons under law 12 of the laws of the game for which a yellow card may be given. It is interpreted broadly, most commonly to sanction fouls which are more serious than most, though below a level which would merit a red card. Other examples include extravagant goal celebrations (e.g. removing one's jersey) and simulating actions intended to deceive the referee (diving). \n\nIn basketball, such misconduct is penalized by a \"technical\" foul as opposed to a \"personal\" foul. The technical foul is akin to a caution in that two such fouls warrant an expulsion, although egregious conduct will be immediately assessed two consecutive technical fouls, or in at least one case, one.\n\nIn tennis, such conduct is categorized as a \"code violation\". Examples include racket abuse (intentionally throwing a racket or using it to strike an object other than the ball), ball abuse (intentionally hitting or throwing the ball into the stands outside of normal play), or intentionally shouting during a point in order to distract an opponent. Penalties vary based on the organizers of the match or tournament and usually start with a verbal warning for a first violation, and forfeiture of a point, game, or a match for additional violations.\n\nIn cricket, such behavior is considered to be violating the \"spirit of the game\". The preamble to the \"Laws of Cricket\" state certain actions which may violate the spirit of cricket. A more detailed list (along with appropriate sanctions) is given in the ICC Cricket Code of Conduct. Since good behaviour in cricket is traditionally deemed the \"sine qua non\" of a gentleman to the game's historical status as a \"gentleman's game\", it has led to the saying, \"It's not cricket\", an English language phrase meaning unsportsmanlike conduct in sports, in business, or in life in general. There is considerable debate over whether sledging should be deemed as \"unsportsmanlike behavior\" and banned due to several high profile punishable instances of racial and verbal abuse during international matches; proponents have argued that sledging was meant to be witty and humorous and not a personal attack on the opposition player.\n\nIn ice hockey, unsportsmanlike conduct is defined in Rule 75 of the National Hockey League Rule Book as follows:\n\"Players, goalkeepers and non-playing Club personnel are responsible for their conduct at all times and must endeavor to prevent disorderly conduct before, during or after the game, on or off the ice and any place in the rink. The Referees may assess penalties to any of the above team personnel for failure to do so.\" A player can receive a two-minute penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct. Unusually for a team sport, fighting, in most circumstances, does not constitute unsportsmanlike conduct.\n\nField lacrosse's definition of unsportsmanlike conduct generally includes the same behavior as other sports, such as arguing with the official over a call, using foul language and taunting or baiting other players. It is considered a personal foul under the rules. Coaches and nonplaying personnel can incur the penalty if they enter the field without the official's permission (save situations where the rules allow it) or use abusive language toward officials. Additional infractions can be called if the behavior continues. Penalties can vary from one to three minutes, usually non-releasable; in some less severe instances that do not involve abusive conduct, such as deliberately handling the ball during play, repeatedly committing the same technical foul or deliberately delaying return to the playing field in order to gain an advantage, those penalties are releasable. \n\nUnder rules for high school boys' lacrosse, a second unreleasable unsportsmanlike conduct penalty against the same player is an automatic ejection foul. The player must serve three unreleasable minutes in the penalty area; when that time expires, a substitute must re-enter the game in his place. He must leave the game area unless they are no school personnel around to supervise, in which case he is confined to the bench area for the duration of the game. As a consequence of the ejection, he is suspended for at least the next game.\n\nIn Formula 1, drivers are shown a black-and-white flag for unsportsmanlike driving.\n\nNASCAR likewise has section 12-4, which prohibits actions that are 'detrimental to stock car racing'. This was invoked against Michael Waltrip Racing as a result of apparently gaming the system in order to allow their driver Martin Truex, Jr. to make the 2013 Chase for the Cup.\n\nUnsportsmanlike conduct also includes attempts by players of match fixing, which has seen teams deliberately lose (a thrown game) or achieve draws or select scores, in order to receive a more favorable knockout bracket or a higher draft pick.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011878", "title": "Varan", "text": "Varan\n\nIn its first appearance, Varan is a kaiju that lives in a saltwater lake within the Kunishiroshima valley, where it is known to the natives as \"Baradagi-Sanjin\". It kills an expedition duo and then completely destroys a nearby village. After its home is invaded again, the monster proceeds to attack Tokyo and is seemingly unstoppable until it is tricked by the military into eating bombs. After a few detonate in its stomach, Varan is mortally wounded and escapes back into the ocean, but one final bomb explodes, ultimately defeating the creature.\n\nYears later, Varan reappears in \"Destroy All Monsters\" living in Monsterland with many other monsters including Godzilla, Mothra, Kumonga, Anguirus, Baragon, Minilla, Rodan, Gorosaurus, and Manda. Varan is seen, in the wide screen version of the film on DVD, gliding in to join the other Earth monsters to fight against King Ghidorah, although it does not actually take part in the fight. Within the context of the film itself it is only seen gliding down to the ground prior to the climatic fight at the end of the movie and in the last scene gliding up into the air as a static model rather than as an actor in a suit. It is never mentioned by name in this film, and its roar is not heard.\n\nVaran makes a semi-cameo in \"\" using stock footage from \"Varan the Unbelievable\" during the narrative at the beginning, claiming that Varan was one of many monsters that arose due to the devastation that the World Wars brought, along with Gezora, Baragon, Gaira, Titanosaurus, and Megaguirus.\n\nVaran is 50 meters (164 feet) tall and weighs 15,000 metric tons (16,534 short tons).\n\nEiji Tsuburaya and Akira Watanabe based Varan's design on that of a \"Draco\" lizard, Godzilla, and a kappa. The name \"Varan\" is derived from \"Varanus pater\", or \"father of lizards.\" However, it may also be named after the genus of monitor lizards \"Varanus\". In its film appearances, Varan does not have any special abilities such as fiery or radioactive breath. It can however glide at speeds of Mach 1.5, and has a row of spines along its body which may afford protection.\n\nFew figures of Varan have been issued compared to other kaiju film monsters. Bullmark released the first ever Varan vinyl toy in 1970. Bandai has only issued Varan in gashapon form as part of High Grade Series 6, in promotion for the film \"Godzilla 2000\". Y-MSF has also released a figure on the 6\" scale in 2005. Other companies, such as CCP, Marmit, Trendmasters, and the modern version of Marusan have also released Varan figures.\n\nIn one of the early drafts of what would become \"Godzilla vs. Gigan\", Varan was to have joined Godzilla and Rodan in defending the Earth against King Ghidorah, Gigan, and a new monster that had never been seen before with the name Mogu. Shusuke Kaneko, director of the popular Heisei Gamera trilogy had originally considered Varan, along with Anguirus, to star in \"\" as antagonists to Godzilla. Varan and Anguirus were however replaced with the far more popular Mothra and King Ghidorah. The suit designer is said to have compromised by giving some of Varan's facial features to King Ghidorah. \n\n\n\n"}
