{"id": "51607519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51607519", "title": "A. J. Delgado", "text": "A. J. Delgado\n\nArlene \"A. J.\" Delgado is a former Mediaite columnist who joined the Donald Trump presidential campaign in September 2016. She is a Harvard Law graduate who practiced law in New York City. \n\nThe child of Cuban immigrants to the United States, Delgado is a native Spanish speaker. Her father was a bus driver; her mother worked in a factory. Delgado spoke only Spanish until kindergarten.\n\nDelgado's writings have been published in \"The American Conservative\", \"National Review\", \"The Miami Herald\", \"The Washington Post\", \"Breitbart\", \"The Daily Caller\", and Fox News. She appears regularly on \"Hannity\". She self-published her book \"Hip To Be Square: Why It's Cool To Be A Conservative\" in 2012. Delgado has written about why Latinos should vote for Trump in \"The Washington Post\". On television, Delgado has regularly defended Trump from numerous allegations of sexual harassment. On MSNBC with Brian Williams on October 12, 2016, Delgado called the claims of women who accused Trump of assault \"mind boggling\" and \"dubious\".\n\nAfter the election, she joined Donald Trump's transition team as a campaign advisor. She did not join the administration after she found out she was pregnant: The baby's father is fellow Trump campaign staffer Jason Miller. According to Delgado, Miller told her that he was separated from his wife. He broke off the relationship soon after finding out that Delgado was pregnant. Delgado gave birth in July 2017 to a boy she named William.\n\nIn May 2018, Delgado described claims made by Trump that the FBI put a spy inside the Trump 2016 campaign to frame him as \"embarrassing\". She tweeted, \"Are we really going w this?? That Obama put a spy inside the Trump campaign, to frame Trump? Srsly? Not sure if it’s IQ, ethics, or simple common sense but I cant. This is embarrassing.\"\n"}
{"id": "37537046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37537046", "title": "Abdul Kahar Muzakkar", "text": "Abdul Kahar Muzakkar\n\nAbdul Kahar Muzakkar was the leader of an Islamic movement in South Sulawesi from 1950 till his death in 1965. He led his group of men in a guerrilla warfare against the Indonesian central government, and was finally killed by the army in the jungle. He was also the leader of the South Sulawesi branch of the Darul Islam movement.\n\nBorn on 24 March 1920 in the Kingdom of Luwu, a smaller principality on the northern end of the Gulf of Bone, Abdul Kahar Muzakkar was formerly known as Ladomeng. Ladomeng is a Buginese word derived from 'dominoes', an allusion to his father who was playing cards at the time he was born. His father, Malinrang, was reportedly a businessman who was from the lower aristocracy class. Their family owned many lands, a sign of wealth at that period of time.\n\nKahar completed elementary school in 1934, and his parents then sent him to Muhammadiyah Standard School in Palopo (capital of Luwu) for 4 years. He was then sent to Solo in Central Java to study in the \"Kweekschool\" Muhammadiyah (Islamic Teachers College) from 1938 to 1941. It was in this last institution that Kahar was introduced to a number of prominent ulema, including a prominent modernist Muslim nationalist, Abdul Kahar Muzakkir. In fact, some people claimed that it was contact with this ulema that prompted Kahar to change his name from Ladomeng. There were other views, though, that Kahar had his name changed before he went to Solo, whilst according to Tommy Thomson, Kahar's former guard in the jungle, Kahar's 2 close friends, Jufri Tambora and Siddiq Bakri had been the one who asked Ladomeng to change his name to Kahar.\n\nAccording to sources, Kahar was average as a student, and that his strength lay not in formal education, but in creativity and talent in dealing with problems. In fact, Kahar did not even complete \"kweekschool\", partly because he married Walimah, a girl from Solo who was his first wife. It was with Walimah that he then returned to Palopo, teaching at a Muhammadiyah school until 1943. Though not an exceptional student, Kahar was actively involved in organizations, particularly after he had returned to Palopo. He joined the local \"Hizbul Wathan\", the youth organization for Muhammadiyah, and was active in his opposition to what he called the feudal system in Luwu, and called for an end to the aristocracy. His opposition gained him many support from the Luwu youths. Kahar remained active in \"Hizbul Wathan\" until the arrival of the Japanese in 1942. During the Japanese Occupation, Kahar worked as a clerk at the Nippon Hodobu, an information agency in Makassar under the Japanese authority.\n\nIn 1943, Kahar was sentenced by the \"Hadat\" (governing council) of the kingdom of Luwu to \"ripaopangitana\" [literally, to put someone or something face downward on the land], or simply to treat someone as dead.This form of punishment not only banishes the person from the kingdom, but also causes him to sever all ties which a Bugis or Makassar person is dependent on. There were varied accounts for the reason for such a sentence, all indicating that Kahar had alienated and angered the ruling powers in Luwu, particularly in his position as an activist of \"Hizbul Wathan\". There are views that Kahar criticized the belief in \"Sawerigading\", which claims that only the descendents of the \"Sawerigading\" can rule Luwu. According to his sister, Sulaeha, Kahar asked the aristocrats to discard the use of aristocratic titles, such as \"opu\", due to its inherent discrimination. Military documentation also disclosed that Kahar rejected the tradition of bowing the knees before aristocrats. He also acted in ways that oppose the traditional system of his homeland, such as marrying a Javanese girl at a time when cross cultural marriages were not common in the Buginese tradition. According to Barbara Harvey, the versions of reasons for Kahar's exile are as many as the persons who spoke about it. Mukhlis, in his writing, attempted to interpret Kahar's punishment, concluding that he broke 2 main rules: \"Mapparibokoang Arung\" (guilty of self-importance and abusing his position) and he did \"mpleo weloie Arung\" (attempted to overthrow of the rulers' position) in his position as a \"Hizbul Wathan\" activist. At the time Kahar was expelled, he swore to return and marry a descendent of the \"Pajung\" (king), a prophecy which came true as he later married Andi Haliah, the granddaughter of the \"Pajung\".\n\nAfter his exile in 1943, Kahar moved to Java and set up a merchandise company known as \"Semangat Muda\" (Spirit of Youth). He also established a shop called \"Toko Luwu.\" It was through this business that Kahar entered the Indonesian nationalist movement. His company was used by him and his colleagues from South Sulawesi to establish an organization, \"Gerakan Pemuda Indonesia Sulawesi\" (Indonesian Youth Movement of Sulawesi, GEPIS) on 10 October 1945. This organization was later renamed \"Angkatan Pemuda Indonesia Sulawesi\" (Sulawesi Indonesian Youth Movement, APIS). This renamed organization became a part of the \"Angkatan Pemuda Indonesia\" (API) and was nationally recognized.\n\nIn one of his writings, Kahar revealed that he was one of Sukarno's bodyguards when the latter gave one of his first mass speeches in September 1945. He was the person, armed with only a machete, who was prepared to protect Sukarno and Hatta against the bayonets of the Japanese soldiers who tried to disperse the meeting and who encircled the car in which Sukarno and Hatta were driving. Kahar's role as bodyguard is not in question, with photographic evidence. According to Hamdan Juhannis, even Ukkas Arifin, a former nationalist activist in Kahar's movement who later became a member of the Republican military, revealed in his writing that he had witnessed the bravery of Kahar in guarding Sukarno in the same meeting.\n\nKahar helped in the founding of \"Kebaktian Rakyat Indonesia Sulawesi\" (Loyalty of the Indonesian People from Sulawesi, KRIS), along with A. \"Zus\" Ratulangie, daughter of the Republican Governor of Sulawesi. KRIS was the most famous of organisations in which Sulawesi youths participated in during the fight against the Dutch. APIS was merged into KRIS soon after and Kahar became the first secretary of KRIS. In this capacity, Kahar was tasked with forming branches of KRIS in East and Central Java, thus the formation of KRIS branches in Solo, Yogyakarta, Madiun, Malang, Tegal, Magelang and Cilacap. It was during this period that Kahar met a group of political prisoners of the Dutch from the Nusakambangan and Cilacap prisons, who originated from the outer islands. He was on his way to Cilacap when he interceded and negotiated the release of the 800-odd prisoners, who were then given brief military training. This battalion became the core of Kahar's army. It also operated as Sukarno's protection guard when he moved to Yogyakarta.\n\nAfter leaving KRIS due to internal conflicts, Kahar was tasked by General Sudirman to prepare for the formation of a republican army in Sulawesi. He then formed the \"Tentara Republik Indonesia Persiapan Sulawesi\" (Sulawesi Preparatory Unit of the Army of the Republic of Indonesia, TRIPES) which was formed on 24 March 1946. The battalion of political prisoners whose release Kahar had negotiated formed the core of TRIPES. Members of Kris were also incorporated into TRIPES. Kahar was the commander of TRIPES, and he, helped by Major Andi Mattalatta and Major Saleh Lahade, both from South Sulawesi, began to organize the infiltration of soldiers from Java into South Sulawesi by boats in 1949. Kahar, however, remained in Yogyakarta and later formed a special military unit called \"Barisan Berani Mati\" (Dare-Devil Unit, BBM) from the last remaining battalion of the unit which fought in the Madiun area of East Java.\n\nFollowing this, and the transfer of sovereignty of East Indonesia to the Republic in December 1949, Kahar had expected to be appointed commander of South Sulawesi since he had been one of the principal figures in organising and sending troops of Sulawesi youths back to their homeland in 1946 to support the pro-Republican guerrillas against the Dutch. However, his name was not in the list of newly appointed members of the Territorial Command for East Indonesia. This was a time when education, technical qualifications and discipline were all important and emphasized as criteria for qualifications, thus making Kahar ill-qualified. He did not have formal military training or battle experience, and his rebellious character was considered an obstacle to the integration of the army. Moreover, Kahar had no powerful friends in the military, thus opposition for his ambition to be commander of the South Sulawesi unit was not just by the army, but also by other South Sulawesi officers such as Saleh Lahade and Andi Mattalatta.\n\nInstead of commander of the South Sulawesi unit, Kahar was appointed as the commander of the \"Komando Grup Seberang\" (Group Commando for the Outer Islands, KGS) in October 1949. He was promoted to the rank of 'acting' lieutenant-colonel, and was put in charge of coordinating the guerrilla units in Sulawesi, Kalimantan, the Moluccas and Nusa Tenggara. Even before the appointment of Kahar as the commander of KGS, he had sent 2 of his staff officers, Saleh Sjahban and Bahar Mattaliu, to South Sulawesi to establish contact with the guerrilla forces there in April 1949. On 17 August 1949, the \"Kesatuan Gerilya Sulawesi Selatan\" (South Sulawesi Guerrilla Unit, KGSS) was founded with the aim of uniting the many guerrilla bands operating in the area.\n\nAfter the formal recognition of Indonesia's independence by the Dutch, Kahar suddenly found himself an unemployed officer when the KGS was disbanded. At the same time, fighting broke out between the newly established army command in South Sulawesi and KGSS, when the latter demanded to be part of the TNI. Kahar was ordered to return to Sulawesi to negotiate with these young men. On 22 June 1950, Kahar arrived in Ujungpandang, and initially cooperated with the Indonesian government and army. However, upon his return from a meeting with the guerrillas, he put forward the proposal made by the guerrillas instead. The military commander of East Indonesia, Kawilarang, rejected the guerrillas' demands in a meeting with Kahar on 1 July 1950. Instead, Kawilarang issued a decree liquidating KGSS on the same day.\n\nKahar, according to Bahar Mattaliu, was very angry at Kawilarang's reaction. Kahar resigned from the Army, pulling off his insignia rank saying '\"Ini tidak ada gunanya. (This is of no use)\" to Kawilarang. He then threatened that if KGSS's demand was not accommodated, they would rebel. A few days later, Kahar was kidnapped into the forest by the KGSS on the initiative of Andi Sose, though it was suggested that the action had Kahar's tacit consent.\n\nFrom then on, Kahar and KGSS had overwhelming support form the local population. This was a major factor which ensured the guerrillas' ability to safely operate in the area. Kahar became the leader of the movement, with his presence further encouraging the men, who looked up to him for his record as a soldier with the highest rank from Sulawesi. Many also saw Kahar as having been betrayed by the central government and deserving of sympathy.\n\nKahar had the guerrillas ignore the ban on KGSS, and functioned as an illegal organization. Though essentially enemies of the Republic, there were moments when KGSS assisted the Republican Army, notably in ensuring them a safe landing-place during the Andi Abdul Azis' rebellion and fighting against the Royal Netherlands East Indies Army [KNIL]. However, during one of these assists, an incident occurred which cemented the hatred of the Sulawesi population against the Javanese, and by extension, the central government. It was alleged that one of the Republican units commanded by Captain Latief of the Mataram Brigade had opened fire on 2 guerrilla leaders and their contingents, with the intention of getting rid of the guerrillas. The 2 leaders, Arief Rate and Abbas Bangsawan, were killed, along with many of the guerrillas and Arief's whole contingent. This hatred by the population proved to be valuable to Kahar in his rebellion.\n\nBefore 1952, Kartosuwirjo, the leader of the Darul Islam movement in West Java, sent a letter to Kahar inviting to join his movement. Kahar only replied on 20 January 1952, accepting the invitation to make Sulawesi part of the Islamic State of Indonesia. However, Kahar clarified in the same letter that he did not think Sulawesi is ready to adopt the DI movement formally, as some of his followers were still influenced by communism [which happened before his arrival in Sulawesi] and the lack of commitment on their part in initiating an Islamic revolution. According to Kahar:\n\n\"Actually, we have also wanted to initiate an Islamic revolution since 16 August 1951 [based on what I plan with Brother Abd. Fattach and Brother Saleh Sjahban], but unfortunately, these two brothers are not committed. That made our effort failed and our power was defeated by stronger and more influential powers in society which were unconsciously influenced by 'reddish' ideology.\"\n\nOn 27 February 1952, Kartosuwirjo replied to Kahar's letter, appointing the latter as the commander of Division IV, Hasanudin of the Indonesian Islamic Army. Kartosuwirjo also expressed his gratitude to Kahar for acknowledging him as the supreme commander of the Islamic State of Indonesia, and reminded him of the importance of being under the banner of the Darul Islam. In the whole organization of DI in Indonesia, Kahar was the Deputy Minister of Defence, and the Commander of the Fourth Military District (East Indonesia) and the Fourth Division (Hasanuddin). However, there cannot be said to be an active coordination between the central DI movement and the South Sulawesi DI movement.\n\nOn 7 August 1953, Kahar formally proclaimed South Sulawesi as part of the West Java Darul Islam at a gathering in Makalua. He read the proclamation of 1949, claiming that Sulawesi and its surroundings were part of the Islamic State of Indonesia. At this same gathering, Kahar also issued several regulations to start off the new movement. He announced the new DI flags for South Sulawesi and its surroundings. The state flag was to be red with a yellow crescent and three yellow stars, while the military flag was red with three yellow stars and the number '24'. He also activated a curfew within the areas of DI, and Islamic law was formally adopted. Kahar called on those who were not Muslims to voluntarily support the Islamic community, and labelled the existing guerrillas who were not part of the Islamic army as \"quttautthariq\" (Ar. 'robbers').\n\nIn 1955, Kahar, in the name of the East Indonesia DI, called to the Muslim community, ulema, and Islamic political parties to understand the content of the term \"jihad\". He also concentrated on the creation of a legal basis in the application of the formalist Islamic system within the organization. In 1955, the DI held a conference at Makalua, and a constitution known as the 'Makalua Charter' was drafted to guide the South Sulawesi people. Kahar created systems to support the existence of the NII. He started collecting taxes, all in the name of the Islamic state, and also established organizations. He founded a youth organization, Pemuda Islam Jihad, whilst his wife, Susana Corry van Stenus, instituted a woman's fighter corps called \"Laskar Wanita\".\n\nKahar also began to extend the DI influences outside South Sulawesi, soon after he was accepted as being under the West Java DI. He first expanded DI to Southeast Sulawesi, and around 1955, North Sulawesi, Nusa Tenggara, Maluku and Irian Barat came under the influence of Kahar's DI.\n\nAccording to the information collected by Anhar Gonggong, Kahar was killed on 3 February 1965 by Corporal Sadeli of the Indonesian Army. It was reported that Sadeli heard the sound of a radio playing in the forest near the Lasolo River area, and approached the source of the sound, knowing that Kahar always carried with him a transistor radio. Sadeli had initially wanted to capture Kahar alive, but upon seeing the grenade in his hand, he shot to kill instead. He then compared a photograph of Kahar with that of the dead body, and concluded that the man he had killed was truly Kahar. The body was retrieved by a helicopter and flown to Makassar, where it was received by Mohammad Jusuf at Palemonia Hospital. Upon the announcement of Kahar's death, only one of his wives, 2 children and an uncle were authorized to see the body. Kahar's son, Abdullah, identified his father from the eczema on his foot and his dentures.\n\nHowever, this claim of Kahar's death had been refuted by many of his followers. There were some who claimed that Kahar was a distance away from where the fighting purportedly took place. Moreover, Kahar was always surrounded by 2 platoons of armed bodyguards, and he carried a rifle, not a grenade, as was mentioned in the radio news and newspapers which reported on his death. For these followers, the government news stories were pure propaganda. A whole platoon claimed that they were with Kahar at Lasolo at the supposed time of death, and he disappeared when they left him for a while. However, there was no trace of bloodshed in the area to indicate any sort of fight or struggle. Mansur, one of Kahar's close assistant, also insisted that he was with Kahar when the latter's death was announced on the radio. A few days later, Kahar simply disappeared while Mansur was taking a bath in the river.\n\nAll these witness accounts point not to the death of Kahar, but to a mere disappearance, a view that was supported by his followers. There were some people who claimed that it was Jusuf who had merely faked the death of Kahar based on an earlier face-to-face meeting. These people believed that when Kahar and Jusuf met in Bonepute first on 21 October 1961 and then on 12 November 1961, Jusuf suggested to Kahar that he should go into hiding. It was said that they embraced tearfully. Based on this version, Kahar agreed to be picked up by helicopter to make his escape while another retrieved someone else's body in his place. According to Tihami (1984), the body was dropped in the sea between Makassar and Jakarta so that no one would be able to claim that it was not Kahar's. People also doubted Abdullah's capacity to identify his father as he had spent his childhood in Java with his mother, and rarely saw his father. He had only seen Kahar for 3 days 3 yrs before his death, although they did share a bed. Said Abdullah: \"The problem is that no one else saw the corpse. I did, however.\" Another version that claims to refute Kahar's death draws on the Sulawesi tradition of a \"tomanurung\" (one who descends from heaven) who comes to earth to serve the ruler by protecting the general population from corrupt, authoritarian and abusive leaders. According to the myth constructed and believed by his followers, Kahar is a \"tomanurung\". Therefore, he did not die, but ascended temporarily to heaven, awaiting the time when it is necessary to come back. These suggestions of Kahar as a \"tomanurung\" are usually accompanied by accounts of him living in exile, where he was both engaged in strategic work and at the same time practicing Sufi meditation. \n\nFor many of his followers, the issue of Kahar's alleged death is close for discussion he purportedly said before he left: \"I'll go away from you all for some time, don't ever try to look for me, because you simply can't. But, if I want to, I can easily find you.\" There was also a very prevalent belief that Kahar had merely gone into hiding and had taken another persona. This new identity of Kahar, many believed, was Syamsuri Abdul Madjid also known as Syekh Imam Muhammad Al Mahdi Abdullah. Syamsuri died in 2006, and was said to have been close to Susana Corry van Stenus, one of Kahar's wives.\n\nThe government's position on this issue, though, is that Kahar is truly dead, killed in the jungle on 3 February 1965, a position sustained by both Harvey (1974) and van Dijk (1981). This, though, did not stop the contemporary movement from capitalising on the mystery and controversy of Kahar's death. Mansur's version of events at the time of Kahar's supposed death, though gotten third-hand and thus less reliable, had been the one that has galvanised the movement's followers. Jusuf's silence, on the other hand, had conspired in expanding the truth, wittingly or not. A core group of contemporary Kahar's loyalists includes a number of members of NGOs who are involved in a varied field of activities ranging from cooperatives, legal practice and farming, to youth training, and professionals employed in Sulawesi as teachers, lecturers, lawyers, consultants and engineers. In addition to evoking stories of his escape or his \"tomanurung\" status, contemporary staff members of the movement also institutionalise their stance on Kahar's death through the use of slogans attributed to him such as 'Javanese colonialism' and 'Majapahitism'.\n\nThough he had been dead for many years, Kahar is still remembered in Sulawesi. His legacy differs for different groups, motivated by their own interests of regional politics and movement vitality. Many of the leaders and former members of Kahar's movement had operated underground and been in hiding after his death. Thus, many of the current members do not know each other as the leaders coordinate the operations through staff and cells. Therefore, Kahar's legacy often focuses on him being a symbol of the movement that he had been a part of.\n\nKahar had been remembered by non-members of the movement, even till today. Many of these non-members were knowledgeable about Kahar, but for various reasons, they were not supportive of it. Many claimed that they did not support him that time, and will not do so even now. Some said too, that Kahar had brought much suffering to the people of Sulawesi. For those who had been members but had left after Kahar's death, a clear goal and a replacement for Kahar as a capable leader is needed before they will support the movement again. For youths who had only known of the movement and Kahar recently, there are various opinions. Some had positive impressions as they too saw the 'need for a democratic federal state', whilst others had considered him a traitor to the country.\n\nThe issue of Kahar being either a rebel or fighter for the people of South Sulawesi had resurfaced in contemporary time, when South Sulawesi's governor, Syahrul Yasin Limpo, challenged the people to fight rebels in the area. This created an uproar of critiques from many parties in South Sulawesi. Many are of the opinion that Kahar was not a rebel or a traitor, but indeed, he was a patriot who had fought for Indonesia's independence. He only became a rebel to fight for a principle that he truly believed in.\n\nIn discussing Kahar, discussions on Kartosuwirjo and Daud Beureu'eh had also surfaced. These three figures had been active in the Darul Islam movement, a movement that some people in contemporary Indonesia still view as necessary. Many are of the opinion that these three figures had been excluded from national history, even though they had contributed to the fight for independence between 1945 till 1949 in Indonesia.\n\nIn contemporary time, Kahar's movement had been institutionalized in the form of two branch organizations, the \"Komite Persiapan Pelaksanaan Syariat Islam\" (Organizing Committee for the Preparation for the Application of Islamic Law; KPPSI) which was founded by Kahar's son Abdul Aziz 2000, and \"Pusat Amanat Referendum Rakyat Sulawesi\" (Center for Trusteeship of the Sulawesi People's Referendum; PARAS) which was also established in 2000.\n\nDuring the course of the rebellion, Kahar was active in writing. His writings include monographs, speeches and regulations. He was said to have written more than 10 monographs, of which not all are available to the public. Hamdan Juhannis claims that Kahar's writings especially reflect an effort to strengthen the legitimacy of Darul Islam as most touch on Islamic issues, quoting Quranic verses against the republican government. Several reasons for this had been brought forth, such that Kahar saw a need to 'Islamize' his DI community in South Sulawesi, and that he wrote for a general audience to help outsiders understand the nature of formalist Islamism.\n\nKahar's writings were influenced by his short-temperedness and his broad knowledge. Many of them were rather emotional, even to the extent of attacking his enemies like Sukarno. They also reflect his broad knowledge, especially on Islam and politics. Most of his writings can be categorised into general points, namely: his position from a defender to opponent of the pancasila, Islamic democracy verses Sukarno's Java-centricness, Islam versus other ideologies like the pancasila and communism, and his changing conception of state - from an Islamic federation to that of a caliphate system. According to Deliar Noer, Kahar's writings also are significant for it not only addressed the people in his time, but also provide lessons in idealism, and at least a guide for later generations to continue such idealism.\n\n1. (In Bahasa Indonesia)\n\n2. Kahar Muzakkar Masih Hidup: Sebuah Misteri by A. Wanua Tangke (Book)\n\n3. Tragedi Patriot & Pemberontakan Kahar Muzakkar by Syafaruddin Usman Mhd (Book)\n"}
{"id": "372744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372744", "title": "American Civil War spies", "text": "American Civil War spies\n\nTactical or battlefield intelligence became very vital to both armies in the field during the American Civil War. Units of spies and scouts reported directly to the commanders of armies in the field. They provided details on troop movements and strengths. The distinction between spies and scouts was one that had life or death consequences. If a suspect was seized while in disguise and not in his army's uniform, the sentence was often to be hanged. A spy named Will Talbot, a member of the 35th Battalion, Virginia Cavalry, was left behind in Gettysburg after his battalion had passed through the borough on June 26–27, 1863. He was captured, taken to Emmitsburg, Maryland, and executed on orders of Brig. Gen. John Buford.\n\nIntelligence gathering for the Confederates was focused on Alexandria, Virginia, and the surrounding area.\n\nThomas Jordan created a network of agents that included Rose O'Neal Greenhow. Greenhow delivered reports to Jordan via the “Secret Line,” the name for the system used to get letters, intelligence reports, and other documents across the Potomac and Rappahannock rivers to Confederate officials.\n\nThe Confederacy's Signal Corps was devoted primarily to communications and intercepts, but it also included a covert agency called the Confederate Secret Service Bureau, which ran espionage and counter-espionage operations in the North including two networks in Washington.\n\nThe Union's intelligence gathering initiatives were decentralized. Allan Pinkerton worked for Maj. Gen. George B. McClellan and created the United States Secret Service. Lafayette C. Baker conducted intelligence and security work for Lieutenant General Winfield Scott, commander-in-chief of the U.S. Army. President Abraham Lincoln hired William Alvin Lloyd to spy in the South and report to Lincoln directly.\n\nAs a brigadier general in Missouri, Ulysses S. Grant was ordered by Maj. Gen. John C. Frémont to start an intelligence organization. Grant came to understand the power of intelligence and later put Brig. Gen. Grenville M. Dodge as the head of his intelligence operations that covered an area from Mississippi to Georgia with as many as one hundred secret agents.\n\nMaj. Gen. Joseph Hooker, who became commander of the Army of the Potomac in January 1863, ordered his deputy provost marshal, Col. George H. Sharpe, to create a unit to gather intelligence. Sharpe set up what he called the Bureau of Military Information and was aided by John C. Babcock, who had worked for Allan Pinkerton and had made maps for George B. McClellan. Sharpe's bureau produced reports based on information collected from agents, prisoners of war, refugees, Southern newspapers, documents retrieved from battlefield corpses, and other sources. When Grant began his siege of Petersburg in June 1864, Sharpe had become Grant's intelligence chief.\n\nThe most useful military intelligence of the American Civil War was probably provided to Union officers by slaves and smugglers. Intelligence provided by slaves and blacks were called black dispatches.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47532533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47532533", "title": "An Jeong-geun", "text": "An Jeong-geun\n\nAn Jeong-geun (; born 20 November 1924) is a South Korean former sports shooter. He competed in the trap event at the 1964 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "41815907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41815907", "title": "Ana Díez", "text": "Ana Díez\n\nAna Diez (born 1957) is a Spanish director and screenwriter, who born in Tudela, Navarra. She spent time in Mexico where she received her degree in cinema. One of her best-known films is \"Ander eta Yul\", which was in the Basque language. She has been referred to as \"the first woman director in the New Basque Cinema.\" She received the Goya Award for Best New Director for the film.\n"}
{"id": "49157802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49157802", "title": "Ana Paula Lopes", "text": "Ana Paula Lopes\n\nAna Paula Lopes (born July 1959 in Lisbon, Portugal), is a Toronto-based social innovator, speaker and entrepreneur.\n\nLopes holds a HonBA from the University of Toronto and has been the recipient of numerous awards including the Association of Fundraising Professionals (AFP) of Greater Toronto, Fundraising Volunteer of the Year in 2009 and was listed as one of WXN The 100 Most Powerful Women in Canada in December 2013. In 2014 the President of Portugal awarded Lopes the Portuguese Order of Merit. She was awarded the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal and was made a Member of the Order of Canada in 2011.\n\nLopes has worked for over 25 years in senior positions in the public sector, as Legislative Assistant to Ontario Minister of Culture Rosario Marchese starting in 1990 and starting in 1993 as Executive Assistant to Ontario's 21st Premier Bob Rae. She began her career in the 1980s in public policy for the Ontario Government in the Ministry of Citizenship and Culture and the Policy and Planning Departments of the Municipality of Metropolitan Toronto.\n\nLopes is a Director of the Tapscott Group – a privately held business strategy-consulting firm.\n\nAs a corporate director in the not-for-profit sector, Lopes has led numerous transformations. She is the immediate Past Chair of the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health Foundation (CAMHF) – Canada's largest mental health and addiction hospital. She is a Breakthrough Campaign Cabinet Member which is leading a $1 billion transformation of that institution. She is the former Chair of the Board of Directors of the Toronto Symphony Orchestra, and a former Director of many organizations including Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre Foundation, Women's College Hospital Foundation, Trent University, Business for the Arts and a leader and mentor in the Portuguese-Canadian community. She is a Member of the Writers' Trust of Canada Board of Directors.\n\nLopes and her husband Don Tapscott endowed the Tapscott Chair in Schizophrenia at the University of Toronto.\n\nLopes is married to Don Tapscott, author of numerous bestselling books such as The Digital Economy and Wikinomics. They have two married adult children.\n"}
{"id": "30758440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30758440", "title": "Andrew Grant (physician)", "text": "Andrew Grant (physician)\n\nAndrew Grant, M.D. (fl. 1809) was a physician and writer.\n\nGrant wrote a 'History of Brazil,' 8vo, London, 1809, of which a French translation, with additions, appeared at St. Petersburg in 1811.\n"}
{"id": "35347567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35347567", "title": "Antti Revonsuo", "text": "Antti Revonsuo\n\nAntti Revonsuo is a Finnish cognitive neuroscientist, psychologist, and philosopher of mind. His work seeks to understand consciousness as a biological phenomenon. He is one of a small number of philosophers running their own laboratories.\n\nCurrently, Revonsuo is a professor of cognitive neuroscience at the University of Skövde in Sweden and of psychology at the University of Turku in Finland. His work focuses on altered states of consciousness in general and dreaming in particular. He is best known for his Threat Simulation Theory, which – in the tradition of evolutionary psychology – states that dreams serve the biological function of rehearsing possibly threatening situations in order to aid survival, and his advocacy of the dreaming brain as a model of consciousness.\n\nRevonsuo completed his graduate education at the University of Turku, receiving his master's degree in Psychology in 1990, a Licentiate in Philosophy in 1991, and finally a Ph.D. in Psychology in 1995. Since 2003, he is a member of the Academy of Finland.\n\nRevonsuo has himself written two books laying out his philosophical and scientific approach to consciousness: \"Inner Presence: Consciousness as a Biological Phenomenon\" (2006) and \"Consciousness: The Science of Subjectivity\" (2010).\n\nIn addition, Revonsuo has co-edited two books on consciousness: \"Consciousness in Philosophy and Cognitive Neuroscience\" (1994) and \"Beyond Dissociations: Interaction Between Dissociated Implicit and Explicit Processing\" (2000). He is also the European Editor of the journal \"Consciousness and Cognition\".\n\nAccording to Revonsuo, the dreaming brain is particularly suitable model system for the study of consciousness because it generates a conscious experience while being isolated from both sensory input and motor output. Regarding the rival paradigm of visual awareness, Revonsuo argues that it does not allow one to distinguish between consciousness and perception. Revonsuo holds that there is a \"'double dissociation' between consciousness and perceptual input\". Accordingly, dreams are conscious experiences, which occur without any perceptual stimuli, and, conversely, perceptual input does not automatically engender conscious experience. In support of the independence of consciousness from perception, Revonsuo cites Stephen LaBerge's case study on a lucid dreamer performing previously agreed upon eye movements to signal to the experimenters that he had become conscious of the fact that he was dreaming. A second study that supports Revonsuo's view of dreams was conducted by Allan Rechtschaffen and Foulkes (1965). In this study, subjects were made to sleep with their eyelids open, thus allowing the visual cortex to receive visual stimuli. Though their eyes were open, and the perceptual input was accessible, the subjects could not see the stimuli and did not report dreaming of it. It is the brain that is having the internal experience, independent of perceptual input. This internalist view of consciousness leads Revonsuo to compare both dreaming and waking consciousness with a virtual reality simulation decoupled from or only indirectly informed by a brain's external environment.\n\nPhilosophically, Revonsuo's claim that dreaming is a state of consciousness at all contradicts arguments propounded by philosophers Norman Malcolm and Daniel Dennett. Malcolm argues that, if a person is in any way conscious, \"it logically follows that he is not sound asleep\". Dennett suggested that we needed a well-confirmed, empirical theory of dreams before we could say whether\ndreams were like experiences or not.\n\nRevonsuo's threat simulation theory claims that much or all of dream experience is \"specialized in the simulation of threatening events\", for the evolutionary purpose of rehearsing fight or flight situations to better prepare for such instances in waking life (similar to a \"fire drill\"). According to Revonsuo, empiricial research supports this theory by showing the recurrence of threatening situations in dreaming: of all of the emotions experienced in dreaming, \"fear [is] the most common and anger the next most common\".\n\nAn otherwise supportive 2009 review of threat simulation theory stated that \"The main weakness of the theory is that there is no direct evidence of the effect of dream rehearsal (or the lack of it) on performance or on survival rates across generations of ancestral humans\", and also notes it is not clear why some threat simulations end without a reaction from the dreamer. The review finds that \"Overall, the available new evidence and the new direct tests of the predictions of (threat simulation theory) yield strong support for the theory. A mass of evidence indicates that threat simulation is a function of dreaming, an evolved psychological adaptation selected for during the evolutionary history of our species. On current evidence, the strengths of the theory seem to outweigh its weaknesses.\"\n\nAccording to a 2017 study in \"Sleep\", an analysis of the statistical content of intelligible sleep-talking found that 24 percent contained negative content, 22 percent had \"nasty\" language, about 10 percent contained a variation of the word \"no\", and 10 percent contained profanity. 2.5 percent of the intelligible words were a variation of the word \"fuck\", which comprised only 0.003 percent of spoken words when awake. The study authors judged the findings as being consistent with threat simulation theory.\n\nCross-cultural surveys find that the most typical dream theme is that of being chased or attacked. Other common negative themes include falling, drowning, being lost, being trapped, being naked or otherwise inappropriately dressed in public, being accidentally injured/ill/dying, being in a human-made or natural disaster, poor performance (such as difficulty taking a test), and having trouble with transportation. Some themes are positive, such as sex, flying, or finding money, but these are less common than dreaming about threats.\n\nRevonsuo outlines six “empirically testable” propositions (Revonsuo, 2000) to illustrate his \"threat simulation\" theory.\n\nDream experience embodies an “organized and selective simulation of the perceptual world.” Sensory modalities are fully integrated into perceptual dream experience, and the “active dream self” has a body image similar to that of the waking self in the “visuo-spatial world.” Dreams are composed of interactions that mimic archetypical wake-state experiences and situations with people and objects. Revonsuo states that dreams are the result of an “active and organized process rather than a passive by-product of disorganized activation.” The predicable organization of dreams renders them as more than “random noise”; rather, he views their function as a “selective simulation of the world.”\n\nRepresentations of daily life experiences are absent while dreaming. Dreamers experience a “selective simulation of the world” biased towards threatening situations. The high proportion of negative emotions experienced while dreaming correlates to the need for “adaptive responses that increase the ability to respond appropriately in adaptively important situations” (Revonsuo, 2000). The misfortunes and aggression experienced in a dream state may act as a simulation that prepares the dreamer in the case that a similar situation may occur in the awake state. Evidence lies in the activation during REM sleep across regions that are necessary for the production of these emotionally charged experiences.\n\nReal waking life experiences that are traumatic to the individual causes the dream-production system to create dream content that simulates responses to threats as a mechanism to \"mark situations critical for physical survival and reproductive success.\" Revonsuo writes that \"what from a psychological point of view is a 'traumatic experience' is, from a biological point of view, an instance of threat perception and threat-avoidance behavior.\"\n\nThe threatening dream content, while not an accurate depiction of one's real-time experience, seems incredibly realistic and is therefore effective and productive practice for threat-avoidance responses. He postulates that there is proof of this proposition in that dreamed action is consistent with real motor behavior and that \"dreaming about an action is an identical process for cortical motor areas as actually carrying out the same action.\"\n\nThe perceptual and motor skills simulated in dreams will increase the efficiency of an individual's performance of those skills even if the dreams are not explicitly remembered. Studies have shown that the implicit learning of skills that are important for human performance can be learned and actualized without any conscious memory of having learned them. Furthermore, Revonsuo writes that \"REM sleep physiology appears to selectively support implicit, procedural learning.\"\n\nThe threat-simulation system \"was selected for during our evolutionary history,\" implying that it was not innate but rather came to be in response to the multitude of threats experienced by human ancestral populations. These populations lived in a \"more or less constant post-traumatic state\" and the dreaming brain constructed the threat-simulation technique as an evolutionary tool, resulting in improved threat-avoidance skills and, thus, a higher probability of survival.\n"}
{"id": "2221387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221387", "title": "Awwam ibn Khuwaylid", "text": "Awwam ibn Khuwaylid\n\n\"This person is among the Sahabah's ancestors\"\n\nAwwam ibn Khuwaylid () from the Banu Quraish\n\nHis sister was Khadija bint Khuwaylid and Halah bint Khuwailid and his father was Khuwaylid ibn Asad.\n\nHe was married to Saffiyah bint ‘Abd al-Muttalib and became the father of Zubayr ibn al-Awwam and the uncle of Zainab, Ruqayyah, Umm Kulthum and Fatimah, the daughters of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35525281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35525281", "title": "Bigthan and Teresh", "text": "Bigthan and Teresh\n\nBigthan and Teresh were two eunuchs in service of the Persian king Ahasuerus, according to the Book of Esther. Mordecai rested in the courtyard one day and overheard these two eunuchs plotting to kill the king. He went on to inform the king through Esther, thus thwarting the plot. He was rewarded by the king afterwards.\n\nAccording to the deuterocanonical/apocryphal Additions to the Book of Esther available in the Greek Septuagint translation of the Bible, they are known as Gabatha and Tharra (Koine Greek: Γαβαθά καὶ Θαρρα). Bigthan's name is also spelled \"Bigtan\" or \"Bigthana\". It is a Persian name which means \"Gift of God\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41231290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41231290", "title": "Chandra Man Singh Maskey", "text": "Chandra Man Singh Maskey\n\nChandra Man Singh Maskey (Devanagari: चन्द्रमान सिंह मास्के) (1900-1984) was a Nepalese artist who was one of the leaders in the development of contemporary art in Nepal in the early 20th century. Maskey spearheaded the trend of creating art using new techniques for its aesthetic value, and introduced a new style in the milieu of traditional art which is essentially religious and follows descriptions laid down in ancient texts.\n\nMaskey was born in Kathmandu to a Newar family that traditionally served as officials in the government. He abandoned family tradition and chose art as a career. He was also one of the very few Nepalese artists to get an opportunity to study modern art abroad, as the autocratic Rana regime kept tight control on modern education. In those days, the king was a nominal ruler while the Rana prime minister for life held actual power.\n\nFrom 1918 to 1923, Maskey studied art at the Government School of Art, Kolkata. He was among the first two officially recognized art teachers in Nepal. The other was Tej Bahadur Chitrakar (1898-1971). After returning to Kathmandu, Maskey held the first ever one-man exhibition in Nepal in 1928. He also began teaching art at Durbar High School and Padma Kanya Girls High School.\n\nMaskey aroused the anger of the Rana regime by starting a public school, and it looked for an opportunity to punish him. In 1940, he was convicted of drawing an anti-Rana cartoon and sentenced to 18 years in jail and all his property was confiscated. Maskey served five years and was released in 1945.\n\nIn prison, one of his fellow inmates was poet Chittadhar Hridaya who had been given a six-year sentence for writing a poem about his late mother which was deemed subversive. Hridaya spent his time in prison secretly writing an epic based on the Buddha's life. Maskey drew the paintings to illustrate the epic entitled \"Sugata Saurabha\" which was published when they were both released.\n\nTwo years after being released from prison, Maskey resumed teaching at Padma Kanya Girls High School. In 1957, he and his friends opened the Popular University of Kathmandu which was shut down after six months. Maskey has served as the director of Nepal National Museum, Department of Culture and Archaeology and National Zoo, and adviser to the Nepal Association of Fine Arts (NAFA).\n\nMaskey's paintings have been described as a chronicle of Nepalese life and culture. He has painted everyday scenes of rural Nepal as well as ceremonies and celebrations. His works consist of pencil, pen and ink drawings, oils and watercolors.\n\nIn 1995, the Postal Services Department of Nepal issued a commemorative postage stamp depicting a portrait of Chandra Man Singh Maskey to honor his contribution to the development of art in Nepal.\n"}
{"id": "588100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588100", "title": "Charles Hartshorne", "text": "Charles Hartshorne\n\nCharles Hartshorne (; June 5, 1897 – October 9, 2000) was an American philosopher who concentrated primarily on the philosophy of religion and metaphysics. He developed the neoclassical idea of God and produced a modal proof of the existence of God that was a development of St. Anselm's ontological argument. Hartshorne is also noted for developing Alfred North Whitehead's process philosophy into process theology.\n\nHartshorne (pronounced harts-horn) was born in Kittanning, Pennsylvania, and was the son of Reverend F.C. Hartshorne. Among his brothers was the prominent geographer Richard Hartshorne. Charles attended Haverford College between 1915–17, but then spent two years as a hospital orderly serving in the US Army. He then studied at Harvard University, where he earned the B.A. (1921), M.A. (1922) and PhD (1923) degrees. His doctoral dissertation was on \"The Unity of Being\". He obtained all three degrees in only four years, an accomplishment believed unique in Harvard's history.\n\nFrom 1923-25 Hartshorne pursued further studies in Europe. He attended the University of Freiburg, where he studied under the phenomenologist Edmund Husserl, and also the University of Marburg, where he studied under Martin Heidegger. He then returned to Harvard University as a research fellow from 1925–28, where he and Paul Weiss edited the \"Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce\" v. 1–6 and spent a semester assisting Alfred North Whitehead.\n\nAfter Hartshorne worked at Harvard University, he became a professor of philosophy at the University of Chicago (1928–1955), and was also a member of the University's Federated Theological Faculty (1943–1955). He then taught at Emory University (1955–62), followed by the University of Texas (1962–retirement). He published his last article at age 96 and delivered his last lecture at 98.\n\nIn addition to his long teaching career at the previous three universities, Hartshorne was also appointed as a special lecturer or visiting professor at Stanford University, the University of Washington, Yale University, the University of Frankfurt, the University of Melbourne and Kyoto University. He served as president of the Metaphysical Society of America in 1955. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1975.\n\nHartshorne acknowledged that he was greatly influenced by Matthew Arnold (\"Literature and Dogma\"), Emerson's \"Essays\", Charles Sanders Peirce, and especially by Alfred North Whitehead. Rufus Jones was his Haverford teacher and continuing mentor. He also found inspiration in the works of Josiah Royce (\"Problem of Christianity\"), William James, Henri Bergson, Ralph Barton Perry and Nikolai Berdyaev. He conducted a lengthy correspondence over some twenty-three years with Edgar S. Brightman of Boston University about their respective philosophical and theological views.\n\nIn turn Hartshorne has been a seminal influence on the theologians Matthew Fox, Daniel Day Williams, Norman Pittenger, Gregory A. Boyd, Schubert Ogden and John B. Cobb, on the American philosopher Frank Ebersole and on the Australian biologist-futurologist Charles Birch.\n\nThe intellectual movement with which Hartshorne is associated is generally referred to as process theology. The roots of process thinking can be found in the Greek philosopher Heraclitus. Contemporary process philosophy arose from the work of Alfred North Whitehead, while Hartshorne is identified as the seminal influence on process theology that emerged after World War Two.\n\nThe key motifs of process philosophy are: empiricism, relationalism, process, and events.\n\nThe motif of empiricism in process thought refers to the theme that experience is the realm for defining meaning and verifying any theory of reality. Unlike classical empiricism, process thought takes the category of thinking beyond just the human senses of perception. Experiences are not confined to sense perception or consciousness, and there are pre-sensual, pre-conscious experiences from which consciousness and perception derive.\n\nThe motif of relationalism refers to both experiences and relationships. Humans experience things and also experience the relationship between things. The motif of process means that all time, history and change are in a dynamic evolutionary process. The final motif of events refers to all the units (organic and inorganic) of the world.\n\nWhile Hartshorne acknowledges the importance of Whitehead's philosophy on his own ideas, he did not entirely agree with Whitehead. In Hartshorne's process theology God and the world exist in a dynamic, changing relationship. God is a 'di-polar' deity. By this Hartshorne meant that God has both abstract and concrete poles. The abstract pole refers to those elements within God that never vary, such as God's self-identity, while the concrete pole refers to the organic growth in God's perfect knowledge of the world as the world itself develops and changes. Hartshorne did not accept the classical theistic claim of \"creatio ex nihilo\" (creation out of nothing), and instead held to \"creatio ex materia\" (creation out of pre-existent material).\n\nOne of the technical terms Hartshorne used is pan-en-theism, originally coined by Karl Christian Friedrich Krause in 1828. Panentheism (all is in God) must be differentiated from Classical pantheism (all is God). In Hartshorne's theology God is not identical with the world, but God is also not completely independent from the world. God has his self-identity that transcends the earth, but the world is also contained within God. A rough analogy is the relationship between a mother and a fetus. The mother has her own identity and is different from the unborn, yet is intimately connected to the unborn. The unborn is within the womb and attached to the mother via the umbilical cord.\n\nHartshorne reworked the ontological argument for God's existence as promulgated by Anselm. In Anselm's equation, \"God is that than which no greater can be conceived.\" Anselm's argument used the concept of perfection. Hartshorne accepts that by definition God is perfect. However, Hartshorne maintains that classical Christian theism has held to a self-contradictory notion of perfection. He argues that the classical concept of God fails. Hartshorne posited that God's existence is necessary and is compatible with any events in the world. In the economy of his argument Hartshorne has attempted to break a perceived stalemate in theology over the problem of evil and God's omnipotence. For Hartshorne, perfection means that God cannot be surpassed in his social relatedness to every creature. God is capable of surpassing himself by growing and changing in his knowledge and feeling for the world.\n\nHartshorne acknowledged a God capable of change, as is consistent with pandeism, but early on he specifically rejected both deism and pandeism in favor of panentheism, writing that \"panentheistic doctrine contains all of deism and pandeism except their arbitrary negations\".\n\nHartshorne did not believe in the immortality of human souls as identities separate from God, but explained that all the beauty created in a person's life will exist for ever in the reality of God. This can be understood in a way reminiscent of Hinduism, or perhaps Buddhism's Sunyata (emptiness) ontology namely that a person's identity is extinguished in one's ultimate union with God, but that a person's life within God is eternal.\nHartshorne regularly attended services at several Unitarian Universalist churches, and joined the First Unitarian Universalist Church in Austin, Texas.\n\nHartshorne's philosophical and theological views have received criticism from many different quarters. Positive criticism has underscored that Hartshorne's emphasis on change and process and creativity has acted as a great corrective to static thinking about causal laws and determinism. Several commentators affirm that his position offers metaphysical coherence by providing a coherent set of concepts.\n\nOthers indicate that Hartshorne has quite properly placed a valuable emphasis on appreciating nature (even evidenced in Hartshorne's hobby for bird-watching). His emphasis on nature and human-divine relationships to the world has goaded reflective work on developing theologies about pollution, resource degradation and a philosophy of ecology. Allied to this has been Hartshorne's emphasis on aesthetics and beauty. In his system of thought science and theology achieve some integration as science and theology provide data for each other.\n\nHartshorne has also been an important figure in upholding natural theology, and in offering an understanding of God as a personal, dynamic being. It is accepted by many philosophers that Hartshorne made the idea of perfection rationally conceivable, and so his contribution to the ontological argument is deemed to be valuable for modern philosophical discussion.\n\nIt has been said that Hartshorne has placed an interesting emphasis on affirming that the God who loves the creation also endures suffering. In his theological thought the centrality of love is very strong, particularly in his interpretation of God, nature and all living creatures. Hartshorne is also appreciated for his philosophical interest in Buddhism, and in stimulating others in new approaches to inter-religious co-operation and dialogue.\n\nLangdon Gilkey questioned Hartshorne's assumptions about human reasoning experiences. Gilkey pointed out that Hartshorne assumes there is an objective or rational structure to the whole universe, and he then assumes that human thought can acquire accurate and adequate knowledge of the universe.\n\nIn Hartshorne's theology there is no literal first event in the universe, and the universe is thus regarded as an actually infinite reality. This has led some to point out that as Hartshorne has emphasized that every event has been partly determined by previous events, his thought is susceptible to the fallacy of the infinite regress.\n\nOther critics question the adequacy of panentheism. The point of tension in Hartshorne's theology is whether God is really worthy of worship since God needs the world in order to be a complete being. Traditional theism posits that God is a complete being before the creation of the world. Others find that his argument about God's perfection is flawed by confusing existential necessity with logical necessity.\n\nIn classical Protestant and Evangelical thought, Hartshorne's theology has received strong criticism. In these theological networks Hartshorne's panentheist reinterpretation of God's nature has been deemed to be incompatible with Biblical revelation and the classic creedal formulations of the Trinity. Critics such as Royce Gruenler, Ronald Nash and Norman Geisler argue that Hartshorne does not offer a tripersonal view of the Trinity, and instead his interpretation of Christ (Christology) has some affinities with the early heresy of the Ebionites. It is also argued that Hartshorne's theology entails a denial of divine foreknowledge and predestination to salvation. Hartshorne is also criticized for his denial or devaluing of Christ's miracles and the supernatural events mentioned in the Bible.\n\nOther criticisms are that Hartshorne gives little attention to the classical theological concepts of God's holiness, and that the awe of God is an undeveloped element in his writings. Alan Gragg criticizes Hartshorne's highly optimistic view of humanity, and hence its lack of emphasis on human depravity, guilt and sin. Allied to these criticisms is the assertion that Hartshorne over-emphasizes aesthetics and is correspondingly weak on ethics and morality. Others have indicated that Hartshorne failed to understand traditional Christian views about petitionary prayer and survival of the individual in the afterlife.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37232969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37232969", "title": "Christoforos Perraivos", "text": "Christoforos Perraivos\n\nChristoforos Perraivos () was a Greek officer of the Greek War of Independence, member of the Filiki Eteria and author. In non-Greek sources his name is usually found as \"Per(r)evo(s).\"\n\nPerraivos was born in Pieria. His family name was Hatzivasilis (Χατζηβασίλης), but adopted the nickname “Perraivos” alluding to the Perrhaebi, an ancient Greek tribe of Thessaly. It is believed that he was an illegitimate son of a certain monk Hieronymos, an official at the Metropolis of Larissa.\n\nIn 1793, with the help of the said Hieronymos, he left Greece to study at the Greek School in Bucharest and in 1796 to study medicine in Vienna. There he met the Greek humanist and revolutionary Rigas Feraios and entered an underground revolutionary organization. In 1797 Perraivos was arrested with Rigas and others by the Austrian authorities in Trieste but, unlike Rigas Feraios who was handed over to the Turks, Perraivos was released.\n\nAfterwards he left for Corfu, then under French administration, and enlisted in the foreign units of the French army. He remained there when the Russians took over the Ionian Islands in 1798. He fell into disfavour with the Russians but he managed to stay in Corfu and to serve in the army, thanks to the protection of the Greeks Eleftherios Benakis (a Russian agent) and Georgios Palatinos (secretary of the Russian Admiral). In Corfu he worked also as a teacher in Greek schools from 1804. During 1805-1806 he was attached to the Russian admiral Mikhail Dolgorukov and later was given the rank of major by the Russian admiral Dmitry Senyavin. As a commander of 4 units of 100 men (\"hekatontarchies\") he defended the island of Lefkada (one of the Ionian islands, then \"Santa Maura\") that was threatened by Ali Pasha.\n\nWhen the French occupied the Ionian Islands for second time in 1807 he retained his rank and became a member of the Albanian Regiment, established the same year (Boppe, p. 11). Memoirs of his service under the Russians and the French are included in his “History of Souli and Parga”. This work was written in Corfu in 1801, where he stayed till 1817. Its first volume was published in greek in 1803 in Paris and includes the earliest historical essay on Souli based on first-hand informations gathered from Souliotes refugees fighters in the island. It also includes information on the activities of Russia, France and Britain in the Ionian and Adriatic during the Napoleonic Wars and the wars against Ali Pasha and the Ottomans. It was translated to italian by C. Gherardini in 1815 and from italian to english in 1823.\n\nIn 1817, after the departure of French from Corfu, he emigrated to Russia. In Odessa he met the leaders of the Filiki Eteria and became a member of this organization. Following the orders of the Eteria he travelled to the semi-autonomous Mani Peninsula to organize the revolution against the Ottoman Empire. In Wallachia he met Alexander Ypsilantis, the political and military head of the Greek revolution, in 1820 and tried to persuade him to postpone the uprising. However, Ypsilantis, resolved to begin the revolution in March 1821, sent Perraivos to Epirus to coordinate with the Souliotes and other captains whom he knew from Corfu. He was in Epirus on the outbreak of the revolution (March 1821) and fought with the Souliotes in various battles, as in the siege of the Riniassa castle. After the treaty between Souliotes and Ottomans and the evacuation of Souli, he went to Missolonghi and then to other parts of Greece, participating in many military campaigns and political missions. In 1829 participated in the Fourth National Assembly at Argos as a representative of Thessaly. After independence he authored his \"War memoirs\".\n\nHe served in the regular army of the new Greek Kingdom as a colonel, and was promoted to Major General by King Otto of Greece in 1844. He died on 4 May 1863 in Athens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55712178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55712178", "title": "Cornelia Jones", "text": "Cornelia Jones\n\nCornelia Jones (10 September 1907–23 December 1979) was a Dutch woman from Saba who ran the Government Guesthouse on the island and was the first woman to serve on the island council, making her the first female to hold office in the Windward Islands. She was honored by Queen Juliana of the Netherlands for her years of service to Saba.\n\nCornelia Rosina Jones. known as \"Cutchie\" was born on 10 September 1907 in St. Johns on the island of Saba, at the time a part of the Dutch Empire to Mary Jane (née Hassell) and Fernandus Jones. She was of mixed parentage, her father being a black sailor and her mother a white islander and came from a family with two older siblings and one younger brother.\n\nJones ran the Government Guesthouse on the island, one of the few places available for tourist lodging. The Guesthouse was a two-story building, built by the territorial authority, which had a parlor, library, dining room and kitchen on the lower floor and guest rooms on the upper story. Jones managed the property and acted as hostess of the island, as well as acting as the cook and housekeeper. She was frequently the feature of articles in magazines and newspapers from visiting officials and tourists to the island. \n\nIn 1951, Jones ventured into politics, running for the territorial council with two other women candidates, Ursula Dunkin-Hughes and Millicent L. Wilson. Between the three women candidates, they only received three votes. In 1953, when Kenneth Peterson resigned from the council, Jones was approved as his replacement, serving through 1954. She ran again for the council in 1953 and though Jones was not reelected, she was held in high esteem. When developers proposed in 1955 to replace the Government House with a hotel financed by Dutch backers, the island council refused because the investors would not guarantee Jones' continued employment. After many years service at the Government Guesthouse, Jones became the innkeeper of the Windwardside Guesthouse. She was honored by Queen Juliana of the Netherlands for her years of service to Saba.\n\nJones died on 23 December 1979 at her home on the peaks above The Bottom, on Saba. She was buried next to the family home.\n\n"}
{"id": "42079580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42079580", "title": "Disappearance of Virginia Carpenter", "text": "Disappearance of Virginia Carpenter\n\nMary Virginia \"Jimmie\" Carpenter was a 21-year-old woman from Texarkana, Texas, who went missing in Denton, Texas, in the summer of 1948. Her disappearance remains unsolved. Carpenter was last seen by a taxi driver around 9:30 p.m. on Tuesday, June 1, 1948. Numerous individuals have reported seeing her over the years, but none of these sightings have been confirmed. Her mother, Mrs. Hazel E. Carpenter (who became Mrs. Hazel Smith later in life), spent many years helping the police chase down rumors and leads. She eventually gave up hope, believing that her daughter was dead, although she still wanted her daughter to be found even if she was deceased. In 1998, Denton police received an anonymous tip that she was buried at the campus she was supposed to attend, but it turned out fruitless. Countless man-hours and almost a quarter of a million dollars were spent on the investigation. The case is cold but remains open.\n\nSpeculation of Carpenter's disappearance was that the Phantom of Texarkana had gotten her since she knew three of the victims. The girl's mother convinced herself that Virginia was a victim of amnesia, not knowing who she was or where she was from, which prompted her to give the girl's life story for the second anniversary of her disappearance in the Denton Record-Chronicle; although the year before, she was convinced that her daughter was dead. Bones were found around Denton County in 1949, 1958 and 1960, but they were declared to not be Miss Carpenter. In 1985, Lewis C. Rigler, a Texas Ranger who was a lead investigator in the case, said that he was not surprised that what may have been the most famous missing person case in Texas was still drawing attention.\n\nAn only child, Virginia Carpenter was tall, weighed , and had dark brown hair and brown eyes. She was last seen wearing a light white chambray dress with brown and green stripes (some descriptions include red stripes) and silver buttons down the front, a small white straw hat with the brim flipped up and a white feather stuck in the back, red leather platform high-heeled shoes, and a gold Wittnauer watch. Carpenter took with her a red purse, a black pasteboard hat box, and a brown steamer trunk with a matching cosmetics case. According to Mrs. Carpenter, her daughter left with no more than 15 or 20 dollars.\n\nOn Tuesday, June 1, 1948, Carpenter boarded the Texas & Pacific Texas Special #31 for Dallas, Texas at Union Station in Texarkana about 3 p.m., and stopped in Denton, Texas around six hours later. She was on her way to the Texas State College for Women (TSCW) campus, which is now the Texas Woman's University, to enroll in the summer course. While on the train, she met Marjorie Webster, a middle-aged school teacher who was also enrolling at TSCW from Texarkana. After arriving at the train station, they both hired a taxi (driven by Edgar Ray \"Jack\" Zachary) to take them to the college dorms. As her friend was being dropped off at the Fitzgerald dormitories, Carpenter realized that she forgot to check on her trunk at the train station. She asked the driver how much it would be to take her back to the station. He replied 75 cents. Webster asked if she needed to ride back with her, but Carpenter refused, stating \"No, I'll go alone. I'll be alright.\" After arriving again at the station, she went inside to get her trunk but came back a few minutes later claiming that she could not get it. She spoke to a railroad employee named Mr. Butrill who told her the trunk would not arrive until later. Zachary told Carpenter to sign the back of her claim check and that he would pick it up and deliver it to her in the morning. Carpenter agreed and gave him her luggage receipt after writing \"Virginia Carpenter, Room 200--Brackenridge\", and a dollar for the extra trip.\n\nUpon arriving back at Brackenridge Hall about 9:30 p.m., Zachary said he saw a yellow or cream-colored convertible parked in the front. There was no moon, and the street lights were out due to repair work on a cable. He reported that Carpenter walked up to the vehicle which had two young men standing by it; one of whom was tall, the other short and stocky. She asked \"Well, what are y'all doing here?\" He said it seemed as though she was surprised to see them. The shorter boy talked to her and lifted her on the curb. Carpenter told Zachary to place her luggage on the ground because the boys will get them for her and to leave her trunk there in the morning as well. After doing that, Zachary drove off but did not hear the rest of the conversation. That was the last anyone had seen Miss Carpenter. Reports claimed that a nightwatchman saw the girl get out of the cab and into the convertible, but Police Chief Jack Shepherd denied it. The next morning, Zachary dropped the trunk off and set it on the front lawn of Brackenridge Hall. After being there for two days, it was taken to the office. Mrs. Mattie Lloyd Wooten, the dean of women of TSCW, later explained to Mrs. Carpenter that it was the first time someone did not deliver luggage to the room.\n\nThree days later on Friday, June 4, Carpenter's boyfriend, Kenny Branham, from Dallas, Texas called Virginia's mother in Texarkana because he could not get a hold of her. Mrs. Carpenter, now worried, called the school and found out that her daughter never enrolled. She then called friends and relatives that her daughter may have tried visiting, but they had not heard from her. On Saturday, June 5, around 12:30 a.m., she called the local authorities and the Denton police to report her daughter missing. The Texarkana police told her to \"just go to bed and we'll get on the case in the morning\", but she could not sleep, so she and Mrs. Lucille Bailey, a friend who was living with her, left for Denton at 2:10 a.m. Late Saturday night, the girl's uncle and friends went to Denton to help assist the police in their search with any helpful information, but they failed to shed any light.\n\nAirplanes began scanning the Denton area and motorboats were used to search ponds and lakes. Search parties searched the woods as well as tanks, storm drains, creeks, country roads and abandoned wells. The search was now statewide. Police checked out drivers of light-colored convertibles in Texarkana and Denton but came up with nothing. Lewis C. Rigler, a Texas Ranger, entered the investigation on Monday, June 7, by the request of Virginia's uncle, Dr. E.C. Dodd, along with Chief of Police Jack Shepherd and Sheriff Roy Moore. Officers talked with groups and individuals as possible witnesses. Hunters and farmers were asked to be on the lookout for freshly dug dirt or any unusual odors. Pictures and a description of Virginia were sent to the Department of Public Safety, major city police departments, protection officers of major railroad companies, every State Bureau of Investigations, and many other agencies. Miss Carpenter's trunk was eventually opened, but it gave officers no clues. Her handbag was never found.\nA reward fund for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the person or persons responsible started Wednesday, June 9, and by the end of Friday night, it had reached $1,368. Carpenter's picture and description was given to \"Reward\" magazine, the official publication of Tracers Company of America which investigates missing people with rewards. Despite having 150,000 police officials as subscribers, little replies came in about Virginia and investigations came out inconclusive. On Friday, July 9, Jack Zachary took a polygraph test which concluded that he had no connection to her disappearance. By Monday, July 12, it was rumored that Virginia had returned home, but her mom confirmed that it was untrue. Chief of Police Jack Shepherd said that Carpenter knew some boys with a cream-colored convertible but he was not able to implicate any of them with her disappearance.\nMany leads and tips were thoroughly checked but police were no further to finding Miss Carpenter. More rumors had spread that she returned home or that her body or her luggage was found, but they were branded false by Shepherd. The reward money reached around $3,000, most of which was given back to the donors after two years of no helpful information. On June 9, 1955, Virginia was considered officially dead by a Texas civil law. Article 55:41 in the Texas Civil Statute stated that a person who was successfully absent for seven years should be presumed dead.\n\nOn October 18, 1959, a three-by-one wooden box was discovered, which contained female bones including a skull, in a smokehouse near an abandoned farmhouse 7.5 miles northeast of Jefferson, Texas in Marion County. The bones, which matched the height and weight description of Virginia, were sent to Austin, Texas for examination. During that time, the previous owners of the farmhouse admitted to digging up the bones from a \"Negro\" cemetery. The son was a biology student and said he needed the bones. Mrs. Carpenter had hopes that it was her daughter's remains because the bones had a deformity, and Virginia had a deformity in her right leg which made it shorter than the left. Although the remains turned out to be from a white female with a shortened leg, the dental work did not match.\n\nIn May 1998, the police were tipped by a man in his 70s claiming that he knew who killed Miss Carpenter and where she was buried. He stated she was buried on the grounds of the Texas State College for Women (TSCW) campus, which is now Texas Woman's University. The area was excavated, but only a leather glove, a rubber boot, and animal bone fragments were found.\n\nNot long after Miss Carpenter went missing, reports of sightings came in from Denton county, south Texas, Louisiana and Arkansas. None of the sightings, however, had been confirmed. Two mornings after Virginia's disappearance, a gas station attendant in Aubrey, Texas, which is 10 miles from Denton, saw a girl who resembled Miss Carpenter. He reported his sighting on June 6 after seeing Virginia's picture in that morning's newspaper. He said that a yellow convertible with Arkansas license plates occupied by two boys and two girls stopped at his station.\n\nOn Friday, June 11 around 9:00 p.m., a ticket agent named Mrs. James at a bus station in DeQueen, Arkansas saw a girl who resembled Miss Carpenter. The girl got off a bus from Texarkana wearing a red dress and carrying a red purse. She waited in the lobby before departing 10 minutes later with a young man about 25- or 26- years old, weighing about 135 pounds, with light brown hair, and wearing a white shirt with khaki trousers. Mrs. James reported that before the girl met the boy, she seemed nervous by biting her lips a lot and going to the door frequently. She also inquired about local hotels. A few moments after their departure, Mrs. James received a phone call from a woman asking if \"Miss Virginia Carpenter\" was there. Mrs. James learned the next morning about Carpenter's disappearance and reported her sighting to the police. Bowie County Sheriff Bill Presley and FBI agent H. S. Hallett showed Mrs. James two groups of pictures in which she pointed out Carpenter as the girl she had seen. Police checked hotels and tourist camps but came up with nothing. Later, Mrs. James was uncertain of her identification of the girl.\n\nOn Saturday, June 12, a girl matching Carpenter's description was reported riding in a car with two boys in Mena, Arkansas (47 miles from DeQueen). A Michigan tourist in Tucson, Arizona reported seeing a girl matching Carpenter's description on July 8 after seeing her reward poster in a local cafe. By July 12, Mrs. Carpenter said she had checked all leads in the case but was no closer to learning of her daughter's whereabouts.\n\nOn Friday, January 14, 1949, Houston Press received a letter written in pencil, signed by Mrs. Gladys Bass from Chireno, Texas who claimed that she and her friends met a girl who was well-dressed and well-educated who had been hitchhiking. The girl told them she was hungry and had no money. \"She called herself Virginia. She talked properly, had long brown curly hair that touched her shoulders, and wore a white hat with a feather in it, a striped dress and blue sweater,\" she wrote. She said while they were eating at a cafe, the girl claimed to have run away. They all departed thinking that she was telling a story. It was not until later they believed that the girl was Carpenter, but the police were unable to substantiate Bass's report.\n\nSince Virginia went missing, different theories have been proposed as the reason for her disappearance, including running away, leaving with a lover, being kidnapped, being murdered, amnesia, or even being sold into a white slavery ring. Psychiatrists and doctors who were consulted, stated she had nothing to run away from but had rather enthusiastically looked forward to the future. It was also suggested that her body could have been weighed down and sunken in Lake Dallas, which was too large and too deep to be dragged. Virginia knew three of the victims who were murdered by the \"Phantom Killer\", and thus, it was wondered if he had something to do with her disappearance.\n\nTexas Ranger Lewis Rigler concluded she was dead because he believed there was no reason for her to disappear. He said she did not owe anyone any money, she had no criminal past, no jealous ex-boyfriends, no lovers convincing her to run away, and according to a medical exam before her disappearance, she was not pregnant.\n\nMary Carpenter was born January 25, 1927 in Texarkana. She was a healthy baby, mostly feeding from Holstein milk which was suggested by her maternal grandfather who eventually gave the family a Holstein cow. She began walking at a young age and as her mother put it, she \"inherited a bad streak from me of wanting to walk a little too far from home.\" To keep her from doing so, Mrs. Carpenter would scare her daughter by telling her that big dogs roamed the streets.\n\nWhen she was three, Miss Carpenter rolled down the back steps at her home and hit a tree. X-rays showed that she had no injuries. Three months afterward, she caught a bad case of influenza and could not walk. Her parents diligently searched for a cause for her illness but medical science at the time could not diagnose her. She got better for a while but then a severe attack left her badly crippled.\nThe family went through many orthopedic surgeons until one in Memphis, Tennessee found an infection in her right hip bone. It left perforations in it similar to tiny pinholes. Virginia was placed in a contraption for a few months that pulled her leg back into proper position. Too young to understand, Carpenter was given internal medicine, a diet, and the task to sunbathe on the hospital's tar roof for two hours a day for two years. She was able to walk better with the use of a steel brace that fitted into the heel of her shoe which then came up to a leather-rolled \"saddle\" around her hip. Mrs. Carpenter admitted to making the mistake of placing Virginia in kindergarten while she was still in the brace. Virginia soon became self-conscious and lost weight due to a loss of appetite. She was taken out of school but returned a year later when the brace was removed. She was announced \"completely cured\" by a specialist when she was 12. She was one of only four complete case histories compiled for the American Medical Association.\nNot long after going to Arkansas High School with her cousin, her father became seriously ill. He died two years later when she was 15. She was not bright in school, but her teachers described her as a child with an unusual amount of common sense and loyalty. She was a quiet girl and rarely participated in activities because she tired easily and had a limp in her right leg from her childhood disease. She joined the band and became a majorette. Because of her participation in activities, she joined a sorority after receiving a bid from each one. After graduating from Arkansas High in 1944, she went to the University of Arkansas to study journalism. After a year, she came home and told her mother that she wanted to go into laboratory technician training but it required something she did not take in high school (science). She went to TSCW from September 1945 until February 1946 when she had to quit and take care of her mother who became ill. She planned on finishing her schooling within a year.\n\nAfter her mother became ill, she underwent major surgery. A week later, Virginia was struck with appendicitis and was also operated on. A month later, they were both taken home by an \"Aggie\" (a student from Texas A&M University) named Mac. Virginia fell in love with Mac, became engaged, and set a date for their wedding. Her grandparents did not approve of the engagement. Three weeks before their wedding date, Virginia broke it off. Virginia's mother said, \"I loved Mac because of his fine qualities and because he was so good to me, but I couldn't see their two personalities living together in harmony.\"\nVirginia soon started working for a clinic. She wanted to be a nurse but knew that her right leg would not support the strenuous hours of being on her feet. She decided instead to be a technician. Mrs. Carpenter revealed that Virginia wanted to be a technician because medical science did not find a cure for her father. Virginia wanted to return to school but worried about finances. She then took a job at an insurance firm because it paid a better salary. She stayed with the firm until August 1947 when she had enough money to go back to school. She started the next month at Texarkana Junior College. She now had her future planned: she could go to TSCW in the summer which would enable her to attend the technician training in the autumn of 1948.\n\nTen days before school was out, Virginia went to the annual picnic from Texarkana Junior College at a lake near Daingerfield, Texas. She left with her date and another couple. About 5 p.m. that evening, Virginia came home and said she did not feel well. Mrs. Carpenter said her daughter \"was one of the most sunburned persons I had ever seen.\" Virginia fell across her bed and went to sleep. Hazel woke her for supper but Virginia said she did not feel like eating. She came to the dinner table but fainted. She regained consciousness while her mother was taking her to the bathroom and then she fainted again and fell to the floor. Mrs. Carpenter did not think she would revive. She picked her up and put her in the bed before calling a doctor. While waiting for the doctor, Virginia regained consciousness and then fainted again, due to sunstroke. She was diagnosed with second-degree sunburn. He prescribed her with rest and quiet for a few days. After the third day, Virginia made an effort to take her final exams at school. While there, she told her teachers about her love affair that did not work out and that she fell in love again but the boy did not love her.\n\nIn the last few months before her disappearance, she took up sketching and became quite good through the coaching of a friend. Mrs. Carpenter said that a portrait Virginia did from memory of her father was one of the best likeness she had ever seen. Virginia was recovering from her sunburn when she packed for her trip to Denton. Mrs. Carpenter wanted to take Virginia to Denton in the car, but she insisted that she would be fine on the train. On June 1, the day of her disappearance, they ran to the station and caught the train moments before it left. \"I was so in hopes we would find the train gone so that I could drive her down the next morning. There was a tinge of disappointment when I saw the train had not left, but she refused to get on until she kissed me goodbye; and as she stood on the rear platform of the train waving goodbye, I wondered if there was anyone more radiant and beautiful. In my heart I offered a silent prayer because she was mine.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31483095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31483095", "title": "Dulcie Markham", "text": "Dulcie Markham\n\nDulcie May Markham (27 February 1914 – 20 April 1976) was a prominent Sydney prostitute and associate of gangland figures in Sydney during the 1930s, 1940's and 1950s, when she was closely involved with the razor gang milieu of that era of organised crime within that city. During her criminal career, she had amassed 100 convictions in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland & Western Australia for prostitution, vagrancy, consorting, assaulting police and the public, keeping a brothel, drunkenness and drunk driving, and was sent to prison on numerous occasions. Dulcie was known in the media as \"The Angel of Death\", \"The Black Widow\" and \"Pretty Dulcie.\"\n\n\"The Daily Mirror\", a former Sydney newspaper, summed up her career in crime thus: \"Dulcie Markham saw more violence and death than any other woman in Australia's history\".\n\nDulcie May Markham was born in the inner city Sydney suburb of Surry Hills on 27 February 1914 to John Markham and Florence Millicent née Parker. She became one of Australia's most notorious prostitutes and underworld figures. She became a prostitute when she was 15 and Sydney's most extravagant gangster's moll by the time she was 18. She was attracted to, and associated with, many major criminals of the era. On 13 May 1931, stallkeeper Alfred Dillon and gunman Cecil \"Scotty\" McCormack came to blows over the attentions of Markham and in the resultant melee, Dillon stabbed McCormack to death. Her first marriage was to a sideshow worker and small time mobster Frank Bowen in Brisbane on 4 March 1936. 2 months later, Dulcie was in court accused of falsifying a telegram on behalf of her new husband.\n\nBy 1936, Markham was involved with Guido Caletti, another notorious Sydney gunman, the then husband of Nellie Cameron, another prominent Sydney sex worker of that period. Caletti was shot dead in August 1939 at a party he attended with Markham. Reportedly, Markham was grief-stricken at his funeral.\n\nBy December 1937, Markham had shifted to Melbourne and now had gunman Arthur Taplin as her pimp and lover. Taplin was subsequently shot dead later that year. Then in 1940, her first husband, Frank Bowen, was shot and killed in Kings Cross\n\nIn 1943, Markham relocated to Queensland's Gold Coastto take advantage of the influx of American GI's. When picked up for vagrancy by local police, she protested that she lived with her current \"de facto\" husband, Arthur Williams, and that while he gave her money and groceries, she was not involved in the local sex industry at that time, and was not aware of Williams' involvement in the sly-grog or bootleg alcohol distribution networks that flouted wartime beer and spirits rationing mandates. She also used the pseudonyms and aliases: \"Dulcie Williams\", \"Dulcie Bowen\", \"Tosca de Marquis\", \"Mary Eugene\", and \"Tosca de Merene\" during that period. In September 1945, her then boyfriend and leading Melbourne criminal Leslie Walkerden, was shot dead in Richmond, Victoria.\n\nIn 1947, Markham was accused and stood trial for conspiracy to murder Valma Hull, the wife of Keith Kitchener Hull, who had shot and killed another Sydney gangland figure, Donald \"The Duck\" Day, in January 1945. Markham and Edwin Martin, her current liaison, had visited a boarding house owned by Mrs Hull and had demanded to see her. Charges were later dropped when another pair of local gunmen, Charles Martin and George Barrett, were charged with an attack on Hull, but also acquitted a month later.\n\nOn 25 September 1951, Markham was shot in the hip at a wild party that turned violent in St Kilda, Victoria. Her then boyfriend, Gavin Walsh was shot and killed at the same party. Three months later, while still recovering from the shooting, she married Leonard \"Redda\" Lewis, who was later shot in Melbourne on 22 April 1952. They didn't live together again and were later divorced.\n\nMarkham faced Central Police Court for soliciting one final time in 1957 before retiring from prostitution. In January 1959, Markham stood before a special Federal Court on a charge of not having filed a tax return for 1957. She was found guilty and fined £50 with £1 costs.\n\n Markham married Martin Rooney in 1972 in Sydney (according to her death certificate), and gave up her criminal career. After this period, little more is known about Markham's subsequent life, until her death in a house fire at her home at 12 Moore Street, Bondi on 20 April 1976. Markham had outlived most of her criminal contemporaries from Sydney's tempestuous razor gang era. Markham's funeral was held at St Patrick's Catholic Church, Bondi and the eulogy was given by Detective Frank \"Bumper\" Farrell. She was cremated at Eastern Suburbs Memorial Park.\n\nIn 2009, Markham was one of the figures from that era featured in an exhibition about that era at Sydney's Justice and Police Museum, entitled \"Femmes Fatales: The Female Criminal.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "348920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348920", "title": "Eli Biham", "text": "Eli Biham\n\nEli Biham () is an Israeli cryptographer and cryptanalyst, currently a professor at the Technion Israeli Institute of Technology Computer Science department. Starting from October 2008 and till 2013, Biham was the dean of the Technion Computer Science department, after serving for two years as chief of CS graduate school.\nBiham received his Ph.D. for inventing (publicly) differential cryptanalysis, while working under Adi Shamir. It had, it turned out, been invented at least twice before. A team at IBM discovered it during their work on DES, and was requested/required to keep their discovery secret by the NSA, who evidently knew about it as well.\n\nAmong his many contributions to cryptanalysis one can count:\n\n\nBiham has taken part in the design of several new cryptographic primitives:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28925906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28925906", "title": "Francis Mansour Zayek", "text": "Francis Mansour Zayek\n\nArchbishop Francis Mansour Zayek (born October 18, 1920, Manzanillo, Cuba – died on September 14, 2010) was a prelate of the Maronite Church. He was the founding eparch of the Maronite Catholic Eparchy of Saint Maron of Brooklyn, an Eastern Catholic diocese based in Brooklyn, New York, which covers the eastern coast of the United States.\n\nZayek was born in Manzanillo, Cuba, one of the eight children of Mansour Zayek and Mariam Khoury, on October 18, 1920. The family moved from Cuba back to their homeland of Lebanon in 1931, then part of the French Mandate for Syria and the Lebanon and settled in their native city of Ghazir. Inspired by an uncle, Father George Zayek, the local pastor, he felt drawn to the priesthood. For much of his youth, he felt drawn to enter the Franciscan Order for service as a missionary to Asia.\n\nInstead of that path, Zayek applied to the seminary of the Maronite Church in his hometown, with the approval of his local bishop, Elias Richa, the Archbishop of Baalbek. He excelled in his studies at the seminary, being fluent in\nArabic as well as in French and Spanish (and later in Italian, Portuguese and English) and the archbishop decided to send him to Rome for further studies, where he continued to gain honors. He spent World War II studying at the Urban College, where he gained a diploma in philosophy. He later recounted the struggle the seminarians faced to find food in that period. After graduating, he was ordained a Maronite Catholic priest in the chapel of the College on March 17, 1946. Zayek became incardinated in Lebanon.\n\nZayek then earned doctorates in both theology and canon law at the Lateran University. After completing his studies, Zayek was sent to Cairo, Egypt, where he was appointed by Boutros Deeb, the Maronite Archbishop of Cairo, as Rector of the Maronite Cathedral of the Holy Family there, and a judge in the Catholic tribunals of the city. He also served as an assistant to the Papal Nuncio there. He later returned to Rome where he served as a judge of the Roman Rota and as a consultant in canon law at the Pontifical Atheneum of St. Anselm and at the Lateran University.\n\nOn May 30, 1962, Pope John XXIII appointed Zayek to head the Maronite Apostolic Exarchate (the equivalent in the Eastern Churches of a Vicariate Apostolic) for Maronites in Brazil, the first Maronite bishop to serve outside of the Middle East. He was consecrated bishop at a ceremony held in Dimane, Lebanon, on August 5, 1962, by Mar Paul Peter Meouchi, Maronite Patriarch of Antioch, and his co-consecrators were Peter Sfair, Ordinary Bishop for Maronites in Rome, and Abdallah Nujaim, Eparch of Baalbek. The pope, in appointing him, told him, “What you Maronites have does not pertain to you alone but is part of the treasure of the Catholic Church\".\n\nOfficially an auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Rio de Janeiro, and titular bishop of Callinicum dei Maroniti, Zayek served as bishop for the Maronites of that country until 1966.\n\nZayek was one of the last surviving bishops who had attended all four sessions of the Second Vatican Council between 1962 and 1965 as a bishop.\n\nOn January 27, 1966, the Venerable Pope Paul VI established a similar exarchate for the United States, and transferred Zayek to serve as its first exarch. He was installed in Detroit, the seat of the exarchate, on June 11, 1966. He arrived in the United States with just a rudimentary knowledge of English, and found an unfinished cathedral and neither a residence nor offices ready for him. As he had needed to do in Brazil, he worked to unify the Maronite Catholics of the country.\n\nZayek had to face many challenges. First was the very identity of the Church. Arguments raged as to whether it was to be a transplant of Lebanese life or an American institution rooted in its Lebanese heritage. In this he remained guided by the words of Pope John. Additionally, he had to deal with the liturgical changes mandated by the Vatican Council. He had the Maronite Divine Liturgy translated into English for the first time, creating a standardized service for use in every parish of the exarchate.\n\nPope Paul elevated the exarchate to a full eparchy, or diocese, on November 29, 1971, and appointed Zayek as the first bishop of the Eparchy of St. Maron of Detroit. Zayek was installed as its first bishop on June 4, 1972. The seat of the eparchy was moved from Detroit to the Church of St. Maron in Brooklyn on 27 June 1977 and renamed the Eparchy of St. Maron of Brooklyn.\n\nTo honor his years of service, Pope John Paul II promoted Zayek to the personal rank of archbishop on December 10, 1982. He retired on November 11, 1996, when he reached the mandatory retirement age of 75. He then moved to Fort Lauderdale, Florida, where he served at Our Lady of Lebanon Maronite Catholic Church in Miami, Florida.\n\nZayek was a member of the Maronite Patriarchal Synod and received the Ellis Island Medal of Honor.\n\nWhen Zayek's health began to falter in late 2009, he returned to Lebanon. He died on September 14, 2010, at the age of 89, and was buried there. He was survived by his sister, Lydia, a resident of Lebanon, and his brother, Elias, a resident of Brazil.\n\nEparch Gregory J. Mansour, a successor, wrote in reaction to Zayek's death, \"The Maronite Church in the United States is deeply indebted to the archbishop for his zealous efforts in establishing the strong, vibrant Maronite community we have today...May Archbishop Zayek share in the glory of the Cross which we celebrate this day!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3512464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3512464", "title": "García de Silva Figueroa", "text": "García de Silva Figueroa\n\nDon García de Silva Figueroa (December 29, 1550 – July 22, 1624) was a Spanish diplomat, and the first Western traveller to correctly identify the ruins of Takht-e Jamshid in Persia as the location of Persepolis, the ancient capital of the Achaemenid Empire and one of the great cities of antiquity.\n\nDe Silva was born in Zafra in the Spanish province of Badajoz. He served in the military in Flanders, and later was appointed governor of Badajoz. In 1612, Philip III, King of both Spain and Portugal, chose De Silva as his ambassador to the court of Shah Abbas, the Safavid monarch. Before he could reach Persia, however, De Silva was detained in Goa due to his strong disagreements with its Portuguese viceroy, and he did not arrive at his destination until October 1617.\n\nDe Silva's embassy was Philip III's return to the two Abbas I had sent to him shortly before, one of them in the person of the Englishman Robert Shirley and the other in the ones of the Persian Dengiz Beg and the Portuguese Augustinian friar Antonio de Gouvea.\n\nDuring his stay in Persia, De Silva dealt with various diplomatic issues of importance, including the sealing of an alliance against the Ottoman Empire, a longstanding enemy of the three powers involved: Persia, Portugal and Spain.\n\nDe Silva travelled extensively throughout Persia, visiting the cities of Shiraz, Qom and Isfahan among others. He went to see the ruins of Persepolis, and described its splendours in a vivid letter to the Alfonso de la Cueva, marqués de Bedmar. This letter made a great impression in the learned circles of Europe, and was quickly translated into Latin and English. In Isfahan he met the Italian traveller Pietro della Valle, who later went to Goa following the way De Silva had done to reach there.\n\nOn his travels, De Silva had amassed a large collection of rare art objects; these he tried to take home with him to Spain when his sojourn ended in 1619. He wrote a full account of his travels under the title \"Totius legationis suae et Indicarum rerum Persidisque commentarii\". It was translated into French by the Dutchman Abraham de Wicquefort in 1667. The original manuscript is preserved today in the National Library in Madrid, and was published completely for the first time there in 1903.\n\nDe Silva's memoirs contain a great deal of detailed information relating to Persian geography, history and culture. He described, among many other things, the funerary practices of the Zoroastrians, the sport of organized bull-fighting in Persian towns, and the cultivation of date palms in southern Iran. His narrative is now regarded as a valuable source document on early 17th-century Persia.\n\nDe Silva's return trip to Spain was eventful and frustrating. He reached Ormuz and Goa in 1621, and then, in 1622, Mozambique, but too late in season to round the Cape of Good Hope he had to go back again to Goa. When, after a long delay, he was able to re-embark for Spain. He died at sea before reaching his destination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1253029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1253029", "title": "Henry Flitcroft", "text": "Henry Flitcroft\n\nHenry Flitcroft (30 August 1697 – 25 February 1769) was a major English architect in the second generation of Palladianism. He came from a simple background: his father was a labourer in the gardens at Hampton Court and he began as a joiner by trade. Working as a carpenter at Burlington House, he fell from a scaffold and broke his leg. While he was recuperating, the young Lord Burlington noticed his talent with the pencil, and by 1720 Flitcroft was Burlington's draughtsman and general architectural assistant, surveying at Westminster School for Burlington's dormitory, and superintending at the site at Tottenham House. Working life in the inner circle that was driving the new Palladian architecture was an education for Flitcroft.\n\nFlitcroft redrew for publication the drawings for \"The Designs of Mr. Inigo Jones,\" published by William Kent in 1727, under Burlington's patronage and supervision. In May 1726 Burlington got his protégé an appointment at the Office of Works, where he worked his way up from Master Carpenter and Master Mason to Comptroller of the King's Works, a prestigious position at the top of the architectural field. Royal commissions came his way in the form of some private projects for junior members of the British Royal Family; namely the Duke of Cumberland. His work for the Duke at Windsor Great Park included creating the Virginia Water Lake.\n\nFlitcroft's hands were constantly occupied with private commissions and, like most professional architects (and unlike virtuoso earls), he did some speculative construction in new-building London streets, supplied stone, and contracted to erect the buildings he was designing.\n\nPanelling and a mantelpiece from an old panelled room designed by Flitcroft in the 1720s from Potternewton Hall near Leeds were installed in Sutton Park in Yorkshire after 1935.\n\nFrom 1746 to 1756, he was Surveyor of the Fabric of St Paul's Cathedral.\n\n\nFlitcroft built extensively in the West End of London.\n\n"}
{"id": "8581485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8581485", "title": "Ida Bagus Rai Mantra", "text": "Ida Bagus Rai Mantra\n\nIda Bagus Rai Dharmawijaya Mantra is an Indonesian politician and the mayor of Denpasar.\n\n"}
{"id": "4827919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4827919", "title": "Indra Kumar", "text": "Indra Kumar\n\nIndra Kumar is an Indian film director and producer.He has also appeared in number of Gujarati films playing the comedian or second lead to the protagonist.\n\nHe is the brother of actress Aruna Irani. He is father of actress Shweta Kumar.\n\n"}
{"id": "2836846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2836846", "title": "Jackson C. Frank", "text": "Jackson C. Frank\n\nJackson Carey Frank (March 2, 1943 – March 3, 1999) was an American folk musician. He released his first and only eponymous album in 1965, produced by Paul Simon. After the release of the record, Frank was plagued by a series of personal issues, and was diagnosed with schizophrenia and protracted depression that prevented him from maintaining his career.\n\nFrank spent his later life homeless and destitute, and died in 1999 of pneumonia. Though he only released one record, he has been cited as an influence by many singer-songwriters, including Paul Simon, Sandy Denny, Bert Jansch and Nick Drake. \"Rolling Stone\" journalist David Fricke called Frank \"one of the best forgotten songwriters of the 1960s.\"\n\nFrank was born Jackson Carey Jones March 2, 1943 in Buffalo, New York, the only child of Marilyn Rochefort Jones and Jack Jones, a test pilot. He later took on the surname of his stepfather, Elmer Frank, an army officer and food chemist.\n\nOn March 23, 1954, when Frank was eleven years old, a furnace exploded at his school, Cleveland Hill Elementary School in Cheektowaga, New York. The fire killed fifteen of his fellow students, including Marlene du Pont, Frank's then girlfriend, about whom he would later write the song \"Marlene\". Frank survived, but suffered burns to over fifty percent of his body. The trauma from the burns also caused extensive damage to his parathyroid glands, resulting in an unregulated buildup of calcium in his body that led to extensive joint problems.\n\nDuring his hospital stay he was introduced to music when a teacher, Charlie Castelli, brought Frank an acoustic guitar to keep him occupied during the recovery. He was influenced greatly by Elvis Presley as a teenager. In 1957, he traveled to Memphis, Tennessee with his mother to meet Elvis at a meet and greet event for the children injured in the Cleveland Hill fire. When he was 21, he received an insurance payout of $110,500 for his injuries, enough for him to \"catch a boat to England.\"\n\nHis eponymous 1965 album, \"Jackson C. Frank\", was produced by Paul Simon while the two of them were living in England immersed in the burgeoning local folk scene. Frank was so shy during the recording that he asked to be shielded by screens so that Paul Simon, Art Garfunkel, and Al Stewart could not see him, claiming 'I can't play. You're looking at me.' The best-known track from the sessions, \"Blues Run the Game\", was covered by Simon and Garfunkel, and later by Wizz Jones, Counting Crows, John Mayer, Mark Lanegan, Headless Heroes, Colin Meloy, Bert Jansch, Eddi Reader, Laura Marling and Robin Pecknold (as White Antelope), while Nick Drake also recorded it privately. Another song, \"Milk and Honey\", appeared in Vincent Gallo's film \"The Brown Bunny\", and was also covered by Fairport Convention, Nick Drake, and Sandy Denny, whom he dated for a while. During their relationship, Jackson convinced Sandy to give up her nursing profession to concentrate on music full-time.\n\nAlthough Frank was well received in England for a while, in 1966 things took a turn for the worse as his mental health began to unravel. At the same time he began to experience writer's block. As his insurance payment was on the verge of running out he decided to go back to the United States for two years. When he returned to England in 1968 he seemed a different person to his friends. His depression, stemming from the childhood trauma of the classroom fire, had grown worse, and he had completely lost whatever little self-confidence he once possessed. Al Stewart recalled that:\n\nWhile in Woodstock, he married Elaine Sedgwick, an English former fashion model. They had a son and later a daughter, Angeline. After his son died of cystic fibrosis, Frank went into a period of even greater depression and was ultimately committed to a mental institution. By the early 1970s Frank began to beg aid from friends. In 1975, Karl Dallas wrote an enthusiastic piece in the British weekly music newspaper \"Melody Maker\", and in 1978, Frank's 1965 album was re-released as \"Jackson Frank Again\", with a new cover sleeve, although this did not in the end make his music much more popular outside of a small number of his fans.\n\nFrank lived with his parents in Elma, New York for a few years in the early 1980s. In 1984, his mother, who had been in hospital for open heart surgery, returned home to find Frank missing with no note or forwarding address. Frank had gone to New York City in a desperate bid to find Paul Simon, but ended up homeless and sleeping on the sidewalk. During this time he found himself in and out of various psychiatric institutions.\n\nFrank was treated for paranoid schizophrenia, a diagnosis that was denied by Frank himself—he maintained that he was suffering from depression caused by the trauma he had experienced as a child. Just as Frank's prospects seemed to be at their worst, a fan from the Woodstock area, Jim Abbott, discovered him in the early 1990s. Abbott had been discussing music with Mark Anderson, a teacher at the local college he was attending. The conversation had turned to folk music, which they both enjoyed, when Abbott asked the teacher if he had heard of Frank. He recollected:\n\nFrank, who had known Anderson from their days at Gettysburg College, had decided to write him to ask if there was anywhere in Woodstock he could stay after he had made up his mind to leave New York City. Abbott phoned Frank, and then organized a temporary placement for him at a senior citizens' home in Woodstock. Abbott was stunned by what he saw when he found Frank in New York:\n\nSoon after this, Frank found himself sitting on a bench in Queens while awaiting his move to Woodstock, when he was shot with a pellet gun and blinded through his left eye. At first the shooter could not be found, but it was later determined that local kids had been firing the pellet gun indiscriminately at people and Frank happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time.\n\nAbbott then promptly helped him move to Woodstock. During this time, Frank began recording some demos of new songs. Frank's resurfacing led to the first CD release of his self-titled album. In later pressings, Frank's demos from the 70s were included as a bonus disc with the album, and an anthology entitled Blues Run the Game contained all these tracks as well as his final demos made in the '90s. In 2014 an album of Frank's unreleased demos — \"Forest of Eden\" — was released through London based record label Secret Records. The collection includes his unheard song, \"Forest of Eden\", alongside 1950s demo recordings of \"Heartbreak Hotel\"; two Christmas songs, called \"Santa Bring My Baby Back To Me\" and \"Precious Lord\" (with a spoken word greeting to his grandparents); and three home-recorded demos of his original songs made prior to his 1965 album. These original song demos are of \"I Want To Be Alone\", \"Here Comes The Blues\", and \"You Never Wanted Me\". The only available recordings of Frank yet to be officially released are songs made for the BBC Radio 1 show \"Nightride\" in 1968, but they only exist as poor quality off-air sources.\n\nFrank died of pneumonia and cardiac arrest in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, on March 3, 1999, at the age of 56.\n\nThough he never achieved fame during his lifetime, his songs have been covered by many well-known artists, including Simon and Garfunkel, John Mayer, Counting Crows, Nick Drake, Sandy Denny, Bert Jansch, John Renbourn, Laura Marling, and Robin Pecknold (as White Antelope) of Fleet Foxes.\n\nNick Drake covered 4 songs from Frank's debut album, \"Here Come the Blues\", \"Blues Run the Game\", \"Milk & Honey\", and \"Kimbie\". These are found on Drake's posthumous release, Family Tree.\n\nFrank's song \"I Want To Be Alone\", also known as \"Dialogue,\" appeared on the soundtrack for the film \"Daft Punk's Electroma\". This song plays when the gold robot is on fire, and slowly walking through the darkness of the Southwestern USA Salt Plains.\n\nSoulsavers covered \"Blues Run the Game\" on their single \"Revival\" (7\" vinyl, 30 April 2007).\n\nMarianne Faithfull covered Frank's arrangement of a traditional song, \"Kimbie\" on her 2008 album \"Easy Come, Easy Go\" and included the song in the repertoire of her 2009 tour.\n\nErland & The Carnival also covered \"My Name Is Carnival,\" apparently Frank's favourite song. Bert Jansch also covered this song as a gesture to Frank.\n\nSandy Denny covered \"You Never Wanted Me\" and \"Milk and Honey\" on the album \"It's Sandy Denny\" released by Saga Eros in 1970. Her song, \"Next Time Around,\" contains coded references to Frank, her ex-boyfriend.\n\n\"Marcy's Song\" is played by Patrick, John Hawkes' character, in the 2011 film \"Martha Marcy May Marlene\" and \"Marlene\" plays in the closing credits.\n\nLaura Barton's BBC Radio 4 programme \"Blues Run the Game\", first broadcast 20 November 2012, included interviews with Al Stewart, John Renbourn, Jim Abbott and John Kay as well as archive material of Jackson C. Frank talking and singing.\n\nSouth Korean jazz singer Na Yoon-sun covered \"My Name Is Carnival\" on her album \"Same Girl\" (2010)\n\nFrank's song \"Milk and Honey\" featured on the soundtrack of Vincent Gallo's 2003 movie \"The Brown Bunny\" (and prominently in the movie's trailer). It was also sampled by Hidden Orchestra in their track \"The Burning Circle\" and by Hip Hop artist Nas in his track \"Undying Love\".\n\nFrench singer and Kora player Stranded Horse (Yann Tambour) covered \"My Name Is Carnival\" on his album \"Luxe\" (2016)\n\nThe popular American TV series \"This Is Us\" features \"Blues Run the Game\" in episode three, which first aired on October 11, 2016.\n\nAlt-country band Son Volt covered \"Yellow Walls\" in 2017.\n\nA previously lost song from his 1968 period called \"Golden Mirror\" was uploaded to YouTube in late 2017. \n\n\"Blues Run the Game\" is featured in the movie, trailer, and soundtrack for the 2018 film \"The Old Man & the Gun\".\n\nColin Meloy performed \"Blues Run The Game\" in the 2013 musical/documentary \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6582154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6582154", "title": "Karen Killilea", "text": "Karen Killilea\n\nKaren Ann Killilea (born August 18, 1940) is the subject of two bestselling books by her mother Marie Killilea, \"Karen\" and \"With Love from Karen\". These books were groundbreaking by asserting that children with cerebral palsy could lead productive lives.\n\nKaren Killilea was born three months prematurely at a time when such babies rarely survived. As a result of her prematurity, she developed cerebral palsy. After she was diagnosed, Karen's parents decided to raise her at home, contrary to the advice of doctors to commit her to an asylum and forget her. \n\nAfter visiting at least 23 doctors, they found one in Baltimore, Maryland, who taught them to do physical therapy with Karen at home (then a radical concept). They did so, spending two hours daily on her therapy for more than 10 years. Karen learned to walk with crutches, write, swim, and use her arms and legs. \n\nShe developed into a fairly happy teenager and adult who has been living independently and working for decades. Karen currently lives in New Rochelle, New York, and works as a receptionist at a retreat house for priests run by Catholic monks. Now in her seventies, she zealously guards her privacy and has always declined all requests for interviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "23407373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23407373", "title": "Katherine Lawrence", "text": "Katherine Lawrence\n\nKatherine Lawrence (December 11, 1954, San Bernardino, California – March 25, 2004, near Tucson, Arizona) was a television series screenwriter and a short story science fiction and children's non-fiction educational books and video game writer.\n\nHer name was actually Kathy Selbert and she chose her writing name because of her love for T. E. Lawrence and Jerome Lawrence. She received her Bachelor of Arts degree in the English language from the University of Washington in Seattle and suffered from chronic fatigue syndrome. In 1996, she was nominated for Outstanding Script by the Writers Guild of America for \"Icebound\", an episode of \"Hypernauts\", a live-action science fiction series.\n\nOn March 27, 2004, her body was found at San Pedro River in Arizona, along with a suicide note. Her ashes were spread over Mount Lemmon, which was her favorite area.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3068120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3068120", "title": "Kenny Wangler", "text": "Kenny Wangler\n\nKenny \"Bricks\" Wangler is a fictional character in the HBO drama \"Oz\", played by actor J. D. Williams.\n\n\"Prisoner #97W566. Convicted July 6, 1997 - murder in the first degree (16 years old tried as an adult). Sentence: 20 years, eligible for parole in six.\"\n\nHe was sent to prison for murdering a student he was attempting to rob. His constant macho bravado, disrespect for older prisoners, and drug addiction, among other things, make him particularly unsympathetic. He has an uneasy relationship with Homeboy gang leader, Simon Adebisi throughout the series, which oscillates between loyal camaraderie and public antagonism. Adebisi routinely harasses his constant sidekick, but freely shares the drugs.\n\nWangler is sent to Oz for murder and is immediately seen as a target. After he compliments Kareem Said by telling him he loved his book, Said tries to convert him to Islam, but his heroin addiction keeps him off the straight and narrow path. Adebisi suggests to current Homeboy leader Jefferson Keane to let him in so that the Homeboys can more easily wipe out the Italians. He helps Adebisi seriously injure Italian Joey D'Angelo in the kitchen and proves that he has a place in the gang. He robs elderly inmate Bob Rebadow for no apparent reason, for which Unit Manager Tim McManus chokes him. Throughout the season up to the riot, Wangler remains a key drug dealer and user who goes through severe withdrawal during the riot.\n\nIn General Population, Wangler goes through severe heroin withdrawal and is assaulted by the guards. He is let back into Em City, and McManus tells him to get his GED instead of mopping floors. In the classroom, Wangler is disrespectful and verbally berates several inmates, especially Poet, who has a talent for writing. He almost flips out when asked to read and then it is discovered that he is illiterate. McManus proposes that he learn how to read instead of going to the hole to Warden Glynn and his behavior improves as he becomes more literate. Adebisi, however, is not amused by Wangler getting more educated so he forces him to stop going to class and tears up a book that McManus gave him. Wangler's behavior worsens as a result, and he is not allowed to walk the stage at graduation when McManus decides he is too much of a discipline problem. Wangler then gets back into the routine, even making peace with Poet and berates the Italian inmates after Adebisi takes out their most powerful members. \n\nAs Adebisi becomes increasingly unstable, it becomes clear that he cannot lead the Homeboys. The Italians offer Wangler a partnership if he kills Jara, the man responsible for salvaging Adebisi. In the kitchen where Jara is working, Wangler kills Jara by stabbing him several times in the back and then hands Junior Pierce, his main sidekick in the Homeboys, the murder knife to dispose it in a dishwasher. Adebisi goes to the psych ward as a result. Also, Poet comes back to Oz after killing a man while on parole and Wangler and Pierce are the only ones who accept him upon his return.\n\nMalcolm Coyle arrives and becomes friends with Wangler. Coyle is beaten by the entire gang in the gym as a loyalty test that is often performed in their housing project neighborhoods. Wangler proves that he is worthy of being in their gang to Antonio Nappa. Adebisi is released from the psych ward and the other Homeboys, especially Wangler and Pierce, plot to kill him. Nappa, however, tells them to stand back for the time being. Wangler is upset when Coyle is kicked out of the kitchen on Nappa's suspicions. Later Augustus Hill testifies against Coyle for murdering an Italian-American family, and Wangler seeks revenge. With the help of Kareem Said, Antonio Nappa, Carmen Guerra, and Vernon Schillinger, Hill is protected and Coyle is killed by the Italians so that the Homeboys learn a lesson about seeking revenge. \n\nTaking the new moniker of \"Bricks\", Wangler represents the Homeboys in the boxing tournament and falls quickly to heavier, fitter Muslim inmate Hamid Khan. Wangler and Poet, angered at the loss to the Muslims, expose Kareem Said for having sexual thoughts about a white woman. As a result, Said is kicked out of the Muslims. Later, Wangler's mother visits, telling him that his wife is cheating on him with a man he despises, who is also assaulting his infant son. He has Pierce make a phone call to their outside connection who murders Wanglers wife and her boyfriend. Feigning grief, he attends the funeral, Adebisi cuts a deal with Chucky Pancamo, who is now the head of the Italians, and with the help of the Latinos, burned Poet and Pierce severely. Adebisi is Wangler's cellmate now, and he is at his old enemy's mercy. Adebisi has Wangler tied naked to his bed each night as a form of African war training and to reaffirm his dominance over Wangler. He then forces Wangler to accuse Tim McManus of sexual harassment. McManus transfers Wangler to Unit B and Wangler accepts Adebisi's plan to get rid of McManus and have a black man run Em City. Poet and Pierce get out of the hospital wanting to kill Adebisi, but Wangler tells them to cool off for the time being. On New Year's Eve, amid the racial tension, Wangler, Poet, and Pierce lead the black inmates in a chant throughout Unit B to set Augustus Hill free from solitary.\n\nAdebisi gets Wangler, Poet, and Pierce back into Em City against McManus' wishes. While inside, Adebisi is trying to find someone to use a gun in a specific manner so that McManus can be exposed as incompetent and unfit to run Em City. A new inmate, an insecure white man named Guillaume Tarrant, arrives in Oz and is an immediate target for Wangler, Poet, and Pierce; they steal his shoes and bully him regularly. Seeing this, Adebisi places the gun in his cell, and the next day Tarrant kills Wangler and Pierce, in addition to another black inmate and Correctional Officer Joseph Howard before committing suicide. Wangler's death, however, falls perfectly into Adebisi's plans of revenge on them for killing Jara, and to get a black Unit Manager hired, as three black prisoners and a black officer died at the hands of a white amidst a shootout.\n"}
{"id": "16832036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16832036", "title": "List of dancers", "text": "List of dancers\n\nAn annotated list of popular/famous dancers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7207885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7207885", "title": "List of state visits made by King Harald V of Norway", "text": "List of state visits made by King Harald V of Norway\n\nBelow is a complete list of state visits made by King Harald V of Norway. Four state visits are usually made each year: two visits by King Harald and Queen Sonja to a foreign head of state and two visits by another head of state to Norway. The number of state visits has increased greatly during the 1900s. King Haakon VII reigned for 52 years from 1905 and made a total of 13 state visits to foreign countries. King Harald V had reigned for 25 years and had conducted 45 state visits. Today a state visit is accompanied by large trade delegations and is seen as an important venue to promote trade and other business relations as well as cultural and political ties between the two countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41335554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41335554", "title": "M. M. Sharif", "text": "M. M. Sharif\n\nMian Mohammad Sharif (Urdu: محمد شریف ) (1893 – 1965) TI, best known as Professor M. M. Sharif, was an influential philosopher, clergyman, and college professor. He is noted for his notable work in analytical philosophy and pioneered the idea of \"Muslim philosophy\". He wrote on this subject and his work was published in international philosophical journals.\n\nHe remained politically active with the Muslim League and advocated for the \"idea\" of establishing a separate state in British India, meaning a separate new state of Pakistan for the Muslims. He remained a vital member of the Islamic Ideology Council and taught at Islamia College, Lahore for the rest of his life.\n\nMian Mohammad Sharif was born in the suburban area of Lahore, situated in Shalimar Garden of Lahore, British Punjab, British Indian Empire, in 1893.\n\nSharif was educated at the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College, Aligarh and the famous Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) where he studied Philosophy. He received a BA degree in Philosophy from the Aligarh Muslim University before moving to the United Kingdom for higher education. Settled at the Cambridge, Sharif began attending the graduate school of philosophy at the Cambridge University where he completed his MA and studied for his doctoral studies under reputed English philosopher G. E. Moore.\n\nHis interest in realism and analytic philosophy under professor \"G. E. Moore\" further widened and M. M. Sharif extensively wrote on Monadism which was supervised by GE Moore as his PhD thesis which was submitted to the university. After receiving the PhD degree, his interest further shifted to Western Philosophy and he once noted \"Philosophy must find a place for the sciences in the systematic whole of knowledge.\"\n\nUpon returning to British India, he served as chairman of \"philosophy department\" of the Aligarh Muslim University and briefly participated in Pakistan Movement. In 1945, he was appointed as the General– President of the \"Indian Philosophical Congress\" until he moved to Lahore to accept the professorship of philosophy at the Punjab University after the 1947 partition of British India. In 1950, he founded and served as the first president of \"Pakistan Philosophical Congress\", and remained associated with the society for the rest of his life. This organisation played a role in reviving interest in the study of modern philosophy. In addition, he also served as principal of Islamia College, Lahore and Director of the Institute of Islamic Culture based in Lahore. In 1956, he represented Pakistan in the UNESCO conference held in the United States. He was a member of the American Philosophical Association (Pacific Division) and a Director of the International Federation of Philosophical Societies, Paris. He already was the Founder-Life-President of Pakistan Philosophical Congress. Sharif died and was buried in Lahore in 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "54649161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54649161", "title": "Matthew W. Davies", "text": "Matthew W. Davies\n\nMatthew William Davies (August 1882 – 23 November 1947) was a Welsh musician. His parents were Richard and Catherine Davies of Neath, Glamorganshire. When he was 20 he won a scholarship of £40 a year (for three years) to study at University College, Cardiff. He graduated in 1905 with a Mus. Bac., and a B.A. in 1906. He then studied for a further year, in London, before settling back in the Neath area, where he earned his living as a music teacher and was appointed organist and choirmaster of Bethlehem Green Calvinistic Methodist Church. He was also in demand as a conductor, and adjudicator at singing festivals. \n\nHis compositions include many anthems, part-songs, and hymn-tunes for children and congregational singing, such as the hymn-tune ‘Bethlehem Green’ (written for \"Y Caniedydd Cynulleidfaol Newydd\", 1921). \n\nHe died in November 1947 and was buried in Llantwit-juxta-Neath cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "17473241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17473241", "title": "Military specialism", "text": "Military specialism\n\nMilitary specialisms are the chosen or assigned trade or career specialties in the armed forces which demand from the individuals achievement of qualifications, and a degree of knowledge and skill in the tradecraft to perform tasks and assignments to an acceptable level of completeness or quality.\n\nCommonly military occupations are specific to the Arm, Service or Branch of the armed forces because of the different requirements of the personnel to operate in different environments, using different technologies and working within different operational systems.\n\nThe general term of reference to service personnel in the land component of an armed forces is a soldier, that of the naval component a sailor, that of the naval infantry component a marine, and in the air component an airman, which are sometimes also the lowest military rank in these services.\n\n"}
{"id": "50463828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50463828", "title": "Natalya Durova", "text": "Natalya Durova\n\nNatalya Durova (1934-2007) was a Russian/Soviet circus performer and animal trainer. She first began performing in the circus at the age of four. During World War II she performed for the Red Army. She was given the Guards' badge by G.K. Zhukov when she was nine years old. She also directed the Durov Animal Theatre. She was a People's Artist of the USSR and a People's Artist of the RSFSR.\n"}
{"id": "8523040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8523040", "title": "Nescambious", "text": "Nescambious\n\nAssacumbuit, (1660–1727; many variant spellings, including Escumbuit, Nescambiouit and Nescambious), was a Native American leader of the Maliseet tribe of the Abenaki who was knighted by Louis XIV of France in 1706.\n\nDuring King William's War, he was first associated with the French in the siege of Fort St. John led by Pierre Le Moyne d'Iberville in 1696-1697 during the Avalon Peninsula Campaign. Even after the war was officially ended, Abenaki raids on the English colonists continued. On March 4, 1698 Maliseet Abenaki Chief Escumbuit led a group of 30 Indians in a raid on Andover, Massachusetts, the last and most severe Indian raid on this town.\n\nDuring Queen Anne's War, he participated in the Northeast Coast Campaign. In early 1705 he was again in Newfoundland, where he participated in the Siege of St. John's and other French and Indian raids against English holdings. Later that year he was invited to France as part of France's bid for an alliance with his tribe. He returned to America in 1706. He fought in the 1708 Raid on Haverhill.\n\nHis reputation among the French and the English of New England was notorious—the latter called him a \"bloody devil\", and accused him of killing many women and children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1222945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1222945", "title": "Nicolae Golescu", "text": "Nicolae Golescu\n\nNicolae Golescu (1810–1877) was a Wallachian Romanian politician who served as the Prime Minister of Romania in 1860 and May–November 1868.\n\nA member of the Golescu family of boyars, Nicolae was born in Câmpulung as the son of Dinicu Golescu; he was educated together with his other three brothers in Switzerland. Nicolae and his brother Ștefan returned in 1830 to join the Wallachian Army, where Nicolae became a major in 1834.\n\nIn the same year he joined the \"Philarmonic Society\", a group similar to the Freemasonry. In 1840 he was a prosecutor in the trial of the participants in the Mitică Filipescu plot, and later on he was Wallachia's Minister of Internal Affairs.\n\nIn 1842, Wallachia was under the protectorate of Imperial Russia, and Nicolae Golescu tried to obtain the mandate of Prince of Wallachia from Emperor Nicholas, but was denied and remained a Minister of Internal Affairs until 1847. In the meantime, he began taking part in gatherings of various revolutionary societies.\n\nHe joined the radical liberals, being part of the 1848 revolutionary committee, together with Ion Ghica, Nicolae Bălcescu, Ion Heliade Rădulescu and others (including his brother Ștefan and his cousin Alexandru G. Golescu).\n\nAfterwards, on 11 June 1848, when the Wallachian revolution started in Bucharest, Nicolae Golescu was a Minister of Internal Affairs for the Provisional Government. The following week, he and Ana Ipătescu took initiative in rallying civilians in defense of the revolutionary power, as it was threatened by conservative plot (June 19).\n\nHowever, on 25 July, the government resigned on pressure from the Ottoman Empire, and after the Ottoman intervention of September, Nicolae Golescu went into exile, to return in the 1850s and support Alexandru Ioan Cuza's bid for the throne of a united Danubian Principalities (Wallachia and Moldavia).\n\nIn 1866, after joining the alliance of Liberals and Conservatives against Cuza's unsanctioned personal regime, he was for a short time one of the regents. He was then Foreign Minister and a member of Ion C. Brătianu's Liberal Party, formed during the rule of Carol I.\n"}
{"id": "3333210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3333210", "title": "Nokie Edwards", "text": "Nokie Edwards\n\nNole Floyd \"Nokie\" Edwards (May 9, 1935 – March 12, 2018) was an American musician and member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. He was primarily a guitarist, best known for his work with The Ventures, and was known in Japan as the 'King of Guitars'. Edwards was also an actor, who appeared briefly on \"Deadwood\", an American Western drama television series.\n\nEdwards was born in Lahoma, Oklahoma, the son of Elbert and Nannie, a Native American Cherokee. Edwards came from a family of accomplished musicians, so that by age five he began playing a variety of string instruments, including the steel guitar, banjo, mandolin, violin, and bass. His family relocated from Oklahoma to Puyallup, Washington.\n\nDuring Edwards' late teen years he joined the United States Army Reserve. After traveling to Texas and California for training, he returned home and began playing regularly for pay in numerous country bands in the area.\n\nIn January 1958, country songwriter and guitarist Buck Owens relocated from California to Tacoma, Washington, as owner of radio station KAYE. Prior to the formation of The Buckaroos with Don Rich, Edwards played guitar with Owens in the new band he formed in the area, and also played in the house band of television station KTNT, located in the same building as KAYE. In 1960 Edwards recorded a single, \"Night Run\" b/w \"Scratch\", on Blue Horizon Records with a band called The Marksmen.\n\nThe Ventures are an instrumental musical quartet founded in Tacoma, Washington, in 1958. Original members included Don Wilson on rhythm guitar, Bob Bogle on lead guitar (who later became the bass player), and drummer George Babbitt, who went on to become a 4-star general in the U.S. Air Force. When Babbitt left, Howie Johnson took his place, and was later replaced by Mel Taylor. Edwards met Wilson and Bogle when they performed on KTNT. Edwards originally played bass for The Ventures, but he took over the lead guitar position from Bogle. The Ventures released a series of best-selling albums through 1968, at which time Edwards left; he would occasionally reunite with the band, however.\n\nEdwards continued to tour Japan annually with The Ventures, primarily in winter, until 2012.\n\nIn 1969 Edwards began a solo career and released several albums through 1974. His solo attempt was unsuccessful in America, and he returned to the Ventures as lead guitarist in 1972. Edwards performed with the band until 1984, when he left again to pursue a music career in Nashville, Tennessee. He played lead guitar for Lefty Frizzell, on what would become Frizzell's final recording sessions. In the late 1980s Edwards re-joined The Ventures once more for another short stint of recording and touring before returning to Nashville. Throughout the 1990s he was involved with numerous country-influenced recording projects.\n\nEdwards performed occasionally in the United States as both a soloist and member of various bands, including AdVenture, Art Greenhaw, and Texas Western swing outfit The Light Crust Doughboys. The fruitful and critically acclaimed collaboration of Edwards and artist-producer Greenhaw resulted in a number of albums in several music genres including Edwards' two nominations for \"Grammy Award for Best Southern, Country or Bluegrass Gospel Album of the Year\", album titles \"20th Century Gospel\" (2005) and \"Southern Meets Soul\" (2006).\n\nIn July 2010, Deke Dickerson announced on his Facebook page that he was currently working on a new studio album with Nokie Edwards. Dickerson and his band backed Edwards for several shows, including Deke's yearly Guitar Geek Festival held in Anaheim, California.\n\nIn 2008, Edwards was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, along with The Ventures. The award was presented by John Fogerty. The band performed their biggest hits, \"Walk Don't Run\" and \"Hawaii Five-0\", augmented on the latter by Rock and Roll Hall Of Fame musical director Paul Shaffer and his band.\n\nAfter accepting an offer to pursue an acting career, Edwards landed a role on \"Deadwood\", an American Western drama television series. Edwards played the mysterious friend of Wild Bill Hickok and a local citizen, who serves as a bridge between the villains and heroes of the show. During production, Edwards temporarily relocated to Santa Clarita, California and lived on the set's location with his wife Judy.\n\nEdwards had a long association with Mosrite. In 1963, Edwards introduced the other members of the Ventures to Semie Moseley, which led to a five-year association between Mosrite and the band. During this time, Edwards and the band used and popularized the Ventures Model Mosrite guitars. Several notable features of the Ventures Model include hot single-pole pickups, a light-touch tremolo, zero fret, a sloped-back tilt headstock, and a German carve body.\n\nIn the mid 1980s, Edwards rekindled his relationship with Moseley, and Moseley designed the Mosrite Nokie Model, an update of the Ventures Model. A custom Anniversary version of the Nokie Model came with a metallic blue finish and white accents.\n\nEdwards played Fender Telecasters and Jazzmasters during the 1950s and early 1960s, before switching to Mosrite guitars. For solo projects and with the Ventures, he also toured and recorded with Telecasters during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nIn the mid 1990s, Edwards designed the \"Nokie Edwards Custom Signature\" model Telecaster for Fender Guitars, which features gold hardware,\nan ebony fingerboard, sloped-back tilt headstock, zero fret, sealed tuners and Seymour Duncan humbucker pickups with split coils.\n\nEdwards designed and recently sold his own custom guitar, the \"HitchHiker\", a hybrid of the best elements of the Fender Telecaster and Mosrite guitars. The HitchHiker features a sloped-back tilt headstock, a neck-through-body with swamp ash and quilted maple, zero fret, gold control plates, Seymour Duncan humbuckers with split coils, and an ebony fingerboard. Its bridge works on a slide scale invented by Edwards. The HitchHiker can simulate an acoustic guitar and provides 15 different sound selections. The body design is essentially the original Mosrite body, which Edwards preferred. The hybrid guitars are being crafted in New River, Arizona.\n\nEdwards designed the \"Nokie Edwards Dual Blade Humbucker Pickup\". Manufactured and sold by Seymour Duncan, it produces tones similar to Nokie's Telecaster and HitchHiker guitar models.\n\nEdwards died in Yuma, Arizona following complications from hip surgery, at the age of 82.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46722965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46722965", "title": "Pierre-Victor Galtier", "text": "Pierre-Victor Galtier\n\nPierre-Victor or Pierre Victor Galtier ( – ) was a veterinarian and professor at the , specialising in pathology of infectious diseases, health surveillance and commercial and medical legislation. He developed a rabies vaccine which had some experimental success in laboratory animals.\n\nGaltier was born on 15 October 1846 in Langogne, Lozère to a farmer's family. In 1853, he was entrusted to the nuns who ran the local school. He escaped from this school twice, only to be placed with his grandmother who lived in Langogne. There, he attended secondary school, leaving after the tenth grade.\n\nHe read Greco-Roman studies at La Chapelle-Saint-Mesmin in the \"Petit Séminaire\", the famous ecclesiastical secondary school of Bishop Felix Dupanloup, an outpost of the Seminar d'Orléans. He received his bachelor's degree with honours.\n\nHe studied for his master's degree and his veterinary license at Marvejols college. Around this time Lozère created a scholarship to help poor students to study to become veterinarians, which Galtier received and used to study at the . He came top of the class for four consecutive years, and graduated in 1873 as a valedictorian, receiving the \"\".\n\nGaltier began his professional career as an associate of Monsieur Delorme, a veterinarian in Arles, whose daughter he married. He began teaching veterinary pathology and eventually became the Chair of Infectious Diseases. Aged 33, he began his work on rabies.\n\nIn 1876, he was appointed the Chair of Pathology and Internal Medicine in the veterinary science department at Lyon. In 1877, his department began to carry out studies on microbial pathology and microbiology. This led to the school supporting the idea of contagious diseases such as tuberculosis, the common cold, and rabies, as opposed to the National Veterinary School of Alfort which supported the idea of spontaneous generation.\n\nIn 1878 he was appointed professor of pathology of infectious diseases, animal health, trade and medical law. In the same year, Mr. Bouley, Inspector General of veterinary schools, created a new department that would separate the teaching of general pathology from that of communicable diseases. Pierre Victor Galtier was appointed to the department chair and held the position for 30 years.\n\nIn 1879, he made important discoveries about two deadly diseases: common cold and rabies. In 1883, he obtained a law degree.\n\nFor his work on rabies, Galtier was considered for the 1908 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. However, he died in La Mulatière on 24 April 1908, thereby preventing his nomination.\n\n\nPierre Galtier was notable for his work on rabies; he was the first to develop a vaccine for rabies. He also made important advances in the study of the common cold and on the infectiousness of viruses.\n\nGaltier assumed that, because of the incubation period of rabies, the development of a vaccine could be used as curative for a disease like this.\n\nHis first publication on rabies was a thesis entitled \"Studies on rabies\" published in two veterinary journals and whose findings are published in the Proceedings of the Academy of Sciences.\n\nOn April 25, 1879, the Academy of Sciences published his notes on rabies.\n\nThe article made clear his conclusions about rabies:\n\nGaltier also had a brilliant idea: he began experiments to find an agent capable of neutralizing rabies virus. He thought that the discovery of an effective preventive was almost equivalent to the discovery of a cure, especially if it was effective when administered within a day or two of an infected bite. It is this 'genius idea which is the basis of preventive treatment for rabies by vaccination'.\n\nIn 1880, Galtier published a \"Treaty of contagious diseases\" which contains a chapter on rabies.\n\nIn this book, he wrote this sentence summarizing his first observations on immunity to rabies: \"Rabies virus injected directly into the blood stream is ineffective, at least this is what I found in several experiences where I had injected into the jugular vein of the sheep a large amount of rabid drool\". His experiments were published in several articles the following year.\n\nAlso in 1880, Louis Pasteur became interested in rabies and took note of Galtier's work, regarding him with a certain disdain, stating that these experiments \"do not make it possible to reconicle, let alone identify the disease […] as rabies\". Pasteur often denigrated his predecessors before taking over their work, and the credit for it; he also did this with Henri Toussaint and Antoine Béchamp.\n\nIn August 1881, Galtier sent a note to the Academy of Sciences. He noted his experiences of the intravenous inoculation of the rabies virus in the bloodstream.\n\nHe wrote:\n\nThe findings that emerge from these facts are the following:\nThis method provided immunity against rabies in sheep. In the Bulletin of the Academy of Medicine, he wrote: \"I injected the rabies saliva into the jugular vein of sheep seven times, and never saw rabies, one of my test subjects was successively inoculated with saliva from a rabid dog, four months after this inoculation, the animal is alive and well; he seems to have acquired immunity. I inoculated him for another fortnight by putting eight cubic centimeters of rabid saliva in the peritoneum; it always went very well; then I would administer him another inoculation.\"\n\nAccording to the science historian Jean Théodoridès, this is the first time in the history of medicine that the idea of immunization against rabies was supported by convincing experimental results.\n\nGaltier remarked \"intravenous inoculation is ineffective. [But] immunity follows this inoculation in sheep\", and he noted the absence of virus in the nerve centers.\n\nThis last point drew the attention of Louis Pasteur who saw a lack of sensitivity due to the subcutaneous inoculation technique. With his student Émile Roux, Pasteur developed an intracranial inoculation, by trepanning the skull of a dog. This isolated the virus in the nerve centers, and supported the idea that rabies is neurotropic, meaning that the virus preferentially develops in nerve cells, and spreads through nerve pathways from the peripheral inoculation point to the brain.\n\nIn 1883, Émile Roux published his medical doctorate thesis on \"New acquisitions on rabies.\" According to Jean Théodoridès, the most striking thing about Roux's thesis is the frequent mention of the work of Galtier, whereas Pasteur referred to Galtier only incidentally.\n\nIn 1886, Galtier published an important book on rabies, \"Rabies considered in animals and humans from the point of view of its character and its prophylaxis\" (). It discussed:\n\n\nIt reviewed Galtier's research of 1879–1881, and reported that research was continuing as of 1886 (the date of publication of the book).\n\nThe book also dealt with health measures and forensics, dog control measures (wearing the collar, a muzzle, leash).\n\nIn 1887, Galtier received the Barbier Prize (\"\") from the for his work on rabies.\n\nIn its report on awarding the Barbier Prize to Galtier, Edmond Nocard wrote: \"The discovery of Mr. Galtier, therefore, has a high importance not only from the scientific point of view but also in practical point of view; it is hoped that it will soon lead to the establishment of a simple, practical and effective treatment, saving the largest number of bitten animals.\"\n\nThe same year, he received the Bréant Price of the Academy of Sciences (December 1887) for his book on rabies. Bouchard, on behalf of the Commission consisting of Marey, Charcot, Brown- Séquard and Verneuil emphasized the importance of the work of several years preceding those of Louis Pasteur.\n\nOn January 30, 1888, Galtier published an article in the Proceedings of the Academy of Sciences. He insisted that \"the rabies virus retains its activity in buried corpses, so that when doubts arise afterwards about the nature of the disease that caused the death, exhumation, and inoculation of the bulb are naturally indicated\".\n\nFor Galtier (a veterinary professor, qualified in medical law and contagious diseases), the consequence of the persistence of the rabies virus meant that, in cases of question of the liability of animal owners, corpses could be exhumed to confirm a diagnosis of rabies.\n\nOn April 16, 1888, he again sent a note. He recalled his experiences in 1880–1881 showing that injection of the rabies virus in the veins of sheep and goats did not cause rabies, but instead conferred immunity. He noted that research in 1884 by Edmond Nocard and Emile Roux confirmed the validity of these deductions. These authors noted that intravenous injection can prevent rabies after inoculation into the eye, and after the bite of a rabid animal.\n\nIn his article, Galtier also related his experiments on sheep.\n\nThe second edition of Galtier's \"On Contagious Diseases\" was published in 1891. Galtier was disappointed, to the point of physical pain, by the negative remarks from Louis Pasteur about his research. Pateur stated that dogs did not acquire immunity, as Galtier found in sheep and goats, following intravenous injection of rabies. However, Edmond Nocard and Emile Roux had already confirmed in 1888 that their experiments of 1884 had confirmed Galtier's experiments of 1881.\n\nIn 1904, Galtier lost four of his eight children and his wife, and was strongly discouraged.\n\nHe published an article entitled \"Pages of history\" in which he wrote: \"… I had studied first, from 1879-80-81, the effects of intravenous injection of the rabies virus. I was the first to demonstrate, in the most peremptory manner, its safety in herbivorous animals, and immunizing action. I established this first, before there was any thought of vaccination Pasteur or any others, that immunity against deadly rabies could be granted to certain animals by a particular method of inoculation … From 1881 onward, I had shown that virus injected into the veins of sheep and goats does not cause rabies, but confers immunity\".\n\nIn this article, he promoted is pioneering rabies immunizations, stressing that the results achieved in small ruminants (sheep and goats) were confirmed by Edmond Nocard and Emile Roux in 1888.\n\nIn 1907, Galtier received a significant token of esteem from the Karolinska Institute of Stockholm, who asked him to send all his work on rabies to offer his candidacy Nobel Prize of physiology and medicine for the year 1908. However, Galtier was never nominated for a Nobel Prize; as his death most likely interrupted the nomination process.\n\nGaltier also wrote several works on the intimate nature of the tissues on the infectiousness of the virus.\n\nHe wrote two books on \"Health regulation and legislation of its relationship with the pet trade\" and on \"The Treaty of contagious diseases and animal health.\"\n\nGaltier focused mainly on infectious diseases of domestic animals: rabies, the common cold, tuberculosis, anthrax, and pneumococcal enteritis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1929054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1929054", "title": "Protestant Reformers", "text": "Protestant Reformers\n\nProtestant Reformers were those theologians whose careers, works and actions brought about the Protestant Reformation of the 16th century.\n\nIn the context of the Reformation, Martin Luther was the first reformer (sharing his views publicly in 1517), followed by people like Andreas Karlstadt and Philip Melanchthon at Wittenberg, who promptly joined the new movement. In 1519, Huldrych Zwingli became the first reformer to express a form of the Reformed tradition.\n\nListed are the most influential reformers only. They are listed by movement, although some reformers (e.g. Martin Bucer) influenced multiple movements.\n\nFor a full and detailed list of all known reformers, see \"List of Protestant Reformers\".\nThroughout the Middle Ages, there were a number of Christian sects, cults and movements that sought a return to the purity of the Apostolic church and whose teachings foreshadowed Protestant ideas. Some of the main groups were: Paulicans (6th to 9th centuries); Tondrakians (9th to 11th centuries); Bogomils (11th century); Petrobrusians (12th century); Henricans (12th century); Brethren of the Free Spirit (13th century); Apostolic Brethren – later known as Dulcinians – (13th to 14th centuries); Neo-Adamites – including Taborites, Picards and some Beghards – (13th to 15th centuries); Men of Understanding (15th century).\n\nSome of those whose doctrines influenced later Protestant movements were:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere were a number of key reformers within the Magisterial Reformation, including:\n\n\n\n\nImportant reformers of the Radical Reformation included:\n\n\nThere were also a number of people who initially cooperated with the Radical Reformers, but separated from them to form a \"Second Front\", principally in objection to sacralism. Among these were:\n\n\nRoman Catholics who worked against the Protestant Reformation included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1280768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1280768", "title": "Richard Baerwald", "text": "Richard Baerwald\n\nRichard Baerwald (1867–1929) was a German academic psychologist, in Berlin. Towards the end of his life he became interested in parapsychology and occultism (as it was interpreted at the period). He edited the \"Zeitschrift für Kritischen Okkultismus\" from 1926 to 1928.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20293596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20293596", "title": "Rudolf Dulon", "text": "Rudolf Dulon\n\nChristoph Joseph Rudolf Dulon (April 30, 1807 – April 13, 1870) was a pastor of the Reformed Church (Calvinist) and a socialist agitator in Bremen; later he was an educator in the United States.\n\nDulon was descended from a Huguenot family. After completing his time in the gymnasium, and philosophical and theological studies at the University of Halle, he was ordained in Magdeburg in 1836. He accepted pastorates at Flossau, near Osterberg. Even at this time, he put himself in opposition to Church authorities, but in so mild a way that they could be lenient. In 1843, Dulon left the Prussian state Evangelical Church to become pastor for a German Reformed congregation in Magdeburg.\n\nHis work as an agitator dates from this time. He worked together with the so-called Friends of the Light and the \"Free Congregations,\" though without adopting their dogmas. What attracted him to them was their common fight against the validity of the articles of faith in the Reformed Church and the Catholicizing tendencies in the uniting Evangelical Church. He was reprimanded, but this only seemed to encourage him.\n\nIn 1848, a vote apparently excluded him from Bremen's Church of Our Lady (\"Liebfrauenkirche\"), where he had been preaching, but a majority of the congregation overturned the decision and installed him as pastor; and the Senate of Bremen, the city-state government and highest authority in the Bremen state church, initimidated by the upheavals of the time, dispensed with many of the initiation requirements only insisting on adherence to \"the word of God.\" In undertaking his examination, Dulon explained that the Bible and God's word were for him two very different things. In November 1849 he protected the leftist Arnold Ruge, granting him church asylum from an impending arrest, and organised a further hiding place at Hermann Allmers's, before finding refuge in Brighton.\n\nFollowers streamed to him from all quarters and levels of society, and he moved to the front of the democratic movement. Democracy and revolution were to him the true Christianity. His sermons were characterized by their socialist content. He was strenuously opposed to the illiberal measures of the Friedrich Eichhorn, Prussian minister of cult and education. In 1850 he established the Bremen \"Tages-Chronik\" (Daily Chronicle), a social-democratic sheet - with Ruge contributing from abroad -, and \"Der Wecker. Ein Sonntagsblatt zur Beförderung des religiösen Lebens\" (The Alarmist. A Sunday paper for promoting the religious life), a religious weekly.\n\nHis string of victories became his fate. In 1851, his newspaper was forbidden in Prussia. The senate drew courage from the changing tenor of the times. In 1852, an intervention in Bremen was resolved upon by the German Confederation, and 10,000 troops stood on the outskirts of town. Dulon's days were numbered. Even in 1851, members of the Friends of the Light had complained to the senate, accusing him of denying essential articles of faith, mocking the gospel and open hostility to Christianity. The senate had referred the charges to theologians (Daniel Schenkel, Friedrich Wilhelm Carl Umbreit, and others) in Heidelberg who had confirmed the senate (though some thought deposing pastors was outside its jurisdiction) and declared Dulon unworthy of spiritual office in the Bremen Reformed state Church. Dulon was suspended, then dismissed and sentenced to six months in jail. He fled to Heligoland, which belonged to the United Kingdom at that time.\n\nIn 1853 he emigrated with his numerous family to the United States, where he supported himself by lecturing and teaching young people. He became the pastor of an independent congregation in New York City, and at the same time issued a series of “Sabbath Leaves” in the interests of free religion. He started the first German-American school in the United States. In 1855, he bought the Feldner School in New York City, and later, from 1866 until his death, directed the \"Realschule\" in Rochester, New York. Future Civil War general Franz Sigel, a Badensian, taught in Dr. Dulon's New York schools, and subsequently married one of his daughters. At the end of his life, Dulon published a book, \"The German School in America\".\n\nIn the history of the Evangelical Church, there has hardly been another, except possibly Thomas Münzer, who has put religion in the service of revolutionary socialism so much as Rudolf Dulon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56235750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56235750", "title": "Saïd Cid Kaoui", "text": "Saïd Cid Kaoui\n\nSaïd Cid Kaoui (12 March 1859 – 15 December 1910) was an Algerian berberologist and lexicographer.\n\nSaïd ben Mohammed-Akli Cid Kaoui was born on March 12, 1859 in Ahammam, village of the powerful tribe of Oulad Abd el Djebar and located in the wilaya of Bejaia near Oued Amizour. If his mother, Cherifa bent Saïd ben Ahmed was born in this same place, in the village of Taourirt.\n\nHis father, Mohammed Akli (Muḥend Akli), was from the Beni Sedka (), a tribe of Djurdjura, and settled in this area of the Oued Sahel after the conquest of Kabylia by the French army in 1856-57. A scholar in Arabic, it is certain, who must have belonged to the Marabout caste. An extract of a judicial act dated April 9, 1887 where he mentioned: \"from Young Si Essaïd (reads Si Saïd), son of the late Mohammed Akli Cid Kaoui\". It is known that the title \"Si\" is reserved exclusively in these regions to marabouts and exceptionally to men versed in \"religious science\". In Muslim literary circles, Mohammed Akli had to call himself Muḥammad 'Akli as-Sadqawi, and this \"nisba\" served as a patronymic name for his son when the latter, still young, wore the military uniform. He, indeed, joined the \"spahis\" under this term but with the spelling \"Cid Kaoui\".\n\nLittle is known about his childhood and the early years of his youth. He attended, like the few natives of his rank, the French primary school of Bougie, parallel to studying and reading Quran in the traditional neighborhood school, before entering lycée franco-arabe of Constantine, where he received a solid education in French and Arabic. This will open to him, later, the doors of Military interpretation.\n\nBefore joining the Military interpretation; at the age of 18, he enlisted in the \"Spahis\" as a volunteer for a period of four years, with the rank of brigadier, then \"Maréchal-des-logis\". He was relieved of his duties on March 5, 1881, and obtained a supervisory position at the Algiers High School, before returning to the 1st Regiment of \"Spahis\" on July 13, 1882 for four more years. Towards the beginning of 1880, he enrolled at University of Algiers, in medicine, the studies he pursued for two years before opting for an interpreter course. Then, having passed his exams successfully, he was recruited on 26 September 1886 in the body of military interpreters.\n\nHe was honored with several high distinctions:\n\nIn 1895, Officer of Nichan Iftikhar.\n\nHe received, during his stay in Paris, a bronze medal at the Exposition Universelle (1900) crowning his two Tuareg dictionaries.\n\nIn 1904, Chevalier of the Legion of Honor.\n\nIn 1905, Officier d’Académie.\n"}
{"id": "20186959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20186959", "title": "Simon Loueckhote", "text": "Simon Loueckhote\n\nSimon Loueckhote (born May 7, 1957) is a former member of the Senate of France, representing the island of New Caledonia. He is a member of the Union for a Popular Movement.\n\nLoueckhote served as the sole member from New Caledonia to the French Senate from 1992 until 2011. Loueckhote announced in September 2011 that he would not seek re-election to the Senate after the Union for a Popular Movement political party threw its support to two other candidates, Pierre Frogier and Hilarion Vendegou, in June.\n\nIn 2011, New Caledonia's representation in the Senate of France was increased to two members as part of the Senate's enlargement. An electoral college held on September 24, 2011, will elect the two new Senators, who will succeed Loueckhote.\n\n"}
{"id": "1224197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1224197", "title": "Simon Ramo", "text": "Simon Ramo\n\nSimon \"Si\" Ramo (May 7, 1913 – June 27, 2016) was an American engineer, businessman, and author. He led development of microwave and missile technology and is sometimes known as the father of the intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). He also developed General Electric's electron microscope. He played prominent roles in the formation of two Fortune 500 companies, Ramo-Wooldridge (TRW after 1958) and Bunker-Ramo (now part of Honeywell).\n\nRamo was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, the son of Clara (Trestman) and Benjamin Ramo. His father was a Polish Jewish immigrant and his mother was a Russian Jewish immigrant. He entered the University of Utah at the age of 16, where he joined Theta Tau Professional Engineering Fraternity and earned a B.S. in electrical engineering at the age of 20. By 1936, at the age of 23, he had earned dual PhD degrees from Caltech in physics and electrical engineering.\n\nFrom 1936 until 1946, he led electronics research at General Electric, where he accumulated 25 patents before the age of 30 and was cited as one of America's most outstanding young electrical engineers. He became globally recognized as a leader in microwave research and headed the development of GE's electron microscope.\n\nIn 1946 he returned to California to become director of research for the electronics department of Hughes Aircraft, and his career became coupled with that of Dean Wooldridge. Together they formed a successful team for many years, with Wooldridge concentrating on investment and general business aspects while Ramo led research, development and engineering.\n\nBy 1948, Hughes had created its Aerospace Group to work with the newly created U.S. Air Force. Dr. Ramo became a Vice-President and the Group's Director of Operations. Ramo employed his skills in Systems Engineering to allow Hughes to deliver integrated RADAR and aircraft fire-control systems. He developed the air-to-air missile, creating the Falcon missile.\n\nIn 1953 Ramo and Dean Wooldridge left Hughes Aircraft and formed the Ramo-Wooldridge Corporation, later TRW Inc.\n\nBy 1953 Ramo and the Air Force had become increasingly frustrated with management problems at Hughes. Ramo and Wooldridge were particularly concerned when Howard Hughes avoided their attempts to discuss the problem. In September they jointly resigned, and within a week they formed the Ramo-Wooldridge Corporation on September 16, 1953.\n\nIn October 1953 an Assistant Secretary of Defense, Trevor Gardner, created a committee to consider the future of guided missiles. This Strategic Missile Evaluation Committee (SMEC) was headed by John von Neumann and included both Ramo and Wooldridge. In four months, the committee produced their report and recommended that a crash program was needed to develop intercontinental ballistic missiles, and that such a program might enable the United States to overtake Russian developments by 1959 or 1960.\n\nThe Ramo-Wooldridge Corp. became the lead contractor for the resulting Air Force program. With Dr. Ramo as the driving scientific and engineering officer, they succeeded. In 1958, an Atlas rocket delivered a payload 5,000 miles downrange. The Atlas would go on to serve as the launch vehicle for NASA's Project Mercury orbital flights, starting with John Glenn in Friendship 7. USAF General Bernard Schriever, head of the ICBM program, described Ramo as \"the architect of the Thor, Atlas, and Titan\" rockets.\n\nAccording to a July 30, 2002 article, Ramo's comments are legendary for capsulizing complex ideas into off-the-cuff witticisms.\n\nDuring a series of key experiments of ballistic missiles in the 1950s at Cape Canaveral, Florida, at which Ramo and Air Force General Bernard Schriever were observers, test rockets kept blowing up on their launch pads. When one missile rose about 6 inches before toppling over and exploding, Ramo reportedly beamed and said: \"Well, Benny, now that we know the thing can fly, all we have to do is improve its range a bit.\"\n\nRamo-Wooldridge merged with Thompson Products to become TRW Inc, and Simon Ramo became Vice-Chairman. In 1964, TRW and Martin Marietta formed the jointly owned Bunker-Ramo Corporation with Ramo as President, which expanded into the computer and communications technology fields.\n\nIn January 2008, he joined the faculty of the University of Southern California's Viterbi School of Engineering as a presidential chair and professor of electrical engineering. Ramo is also a founding member of the National Academy of Engineering.\n\nDuring his long and successful career, Ramo has received numerous awards and fellowships. He has been honored by the American Philosophical Society, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the American Physical Society, and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nRamo has served as an advisor to the United States government on science and technology. He has been a member of the National Science Board, the White House Council on Energy R&D, the Advisory Council to the Secretary of Commerce, the Advisory Council to the Secretary of State for Science and Foreign Affairs, and of many special advisory committees to the Defense Department and NASA. President Gerald Ford appointed Ramo as co-chairman of a committee of distinguished scientists and engineers, requesting Ramo to list the science and technology issues most deserving of attention by the White House and to recommend actions. Following this, Ramo was appointed by President Ford to be chairman of The President's Advisory Committee on Science and Technology, a position created by Congress to advise on how to ensure that science and technology matters receive proper attention at the White House.\n\nIn 1980, then-President-elect Ronald Reagan asked Ramo to assemble a transition task force to advise on executive branch appointments where science and technology background was desirable. President Reagan subsequently invited Ramo to be a Science Adviser to the President of the Republic of China. In that assignment, Ramo aided greatly Taiwan's development of a strong high-technology industry.\n\nOn February 23, 1983, Ramo was presented with the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Reagan.\n\nIn 1982, the IEEE Board of Directors initiated the IEEE Simon Ramo Medal for exceptional achievement in systems engineering and systems science.\n\nIn 1988, Theta Tau Professional Engineering Fraternity inducted Simon Ramo, Lambda (Utah)'33, into its Alumni Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2007, the Space Foundation awarded Ramo its highest honor, the General James E. Hill Lifetime Space Achievement Award.\n\nIn 2009, the Theta Tau Educational Foundation named an annual scholarship in his honor.\n\nAdditional awards:\n\n\nRamo has received numerous patents including one at age 100 concerning the use of technology in education making him the oldest American to be awarded a U.S. patent.\n\nRamo has authored dozens of books on topics ranging from science textbooks, corporate and technology management, society's relation to technology, economy, and how to play tennis. A selection:\n\n\n\nRamo was married to Virginia (née Smith) from 1937 until her death in 2009. They have two sons, James Brian and Alan Martin, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Ramo died on June 27, 2016 at the age of 103.\n\n"}
{"id": "46351950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46351950", "title": "Soukaina Boukries", "text": "Soukaina Boukries\n\nSoukaina Boukries (, born 18 March 1988) is a Moroccan singer and actress who rose to popularity as a contestant in both the 9th season of \"Studio 2M\" and the 9th season of \"Star Academy Arab World\".\n\nSoukaina Boukries participated in the 9th season of the show \"Studio 2M\" in Morocco and reached the semi-finals of this program after it was exclusion by the Committee.\n\n\nSoukaina Boukries competed in the 9th season of the show \"Star Academy Arab World\". She went on to also win the title of 'Shakira Arab' and the title of 'The Diamond'. Soukaina was nominated Thrice on the show. During her first nomination she was brought back by public vote, During her second nomination she was brought back again by public vote, achieving the highest vote percentage (77.31%) of this season, During her third nomination in Semi-final,She came out of the competition by a narrow margin in the vote (49.88%).\n\nSoukaina Boukries has participated in Ajmel Snin Omrina on CBC, she presented nine shows in six episodes in this program which is produced by Endemol Middle East 2014.\n\n\n\n|-\n\n"}
{"id": "52174243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52174243", "title": "Teresa de Benguela", "text": "Teresa de Benguela\n\nTeresa de Benguela was a quilombola leader who lived in the state of Mato Grosso, in Brazil, during the 18th century. She was married to José Piolho, who headed the Quilombo do Piolho (or do Quariterê), between the Guaporé River (the boundary between Mato Grosso and Bolívia) and Cuiabá city. Following the death of José Piolho, Teresa became the queen of the quilombo, and, under her leadership, the black and indigenous community resisted slavery for two decades, surviving up to 1770, when the quilombo was destroyed by the military forces of Luiz Pinto de Souza Coutinho. The entire population (79 black people and 30 indigenous people) was killed or arrested.\n\nQueen Teresa led the political, economical and administrative structure of the quilombo, maintaining a defense system with guns traded with white people or redeemed from the nearby villages. The stolen objects used against the black community that used to take refugee there were transformed into work instruments, because they knew how to work with forge. The Quilombo do Guariterê, besides the parliament and a queen counselor, developed cotton production and owned looms where they produced fabric that was commercialized outside the quilombos. They also used to sell food.\n\nJuly 25 is instituted as the Teresa de Benguela National Day and the Black Woman day in Brazil by the 12 987 law.\n"}
{"id": "47881190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47881190", "title": "Theodore Roosevelt McElroy", "text": "Theodore Roosevelt McElroy\n\nMcElroy was born September 15, 1901 (baptism 1903) in Somerville, Massachusetts. Vice President Theodore Roosevelt became president of the United States upon the death of President William McKinley, September 14. McElroy was born the next day and in admiration of this \"cowboy president\" his parents named him \"Theodore Roosevelt.\" He went by the name Teddy, Ted, T.R., or Mac as he disliked his birth name. He was the third of six children from a family with an Irish background.\n\nMcElroy began his career at Western Union as messenger when he was 14 years old. He graduated from Forster Grammar School in Somerville, Massachusetts, in 1916. In that same year he enrolled in the Commercial Course at Somerville High School. He became a telegraph operator at the age of 15. McElroy received his commercial radio operator's license at the age of nineteen.\n\nMcElroy's wife's name was Margaret F. McElroy (maiden name Coleman from South Boston, MA) and they were married on October 26, 1925. They had a son by the name of John C. McElroy who was born on November 11, 1926.\n\nMcElroy went into the manufacturing business when he was 33 years old and eventually formed McElroy Manufacturing Corporation in 1941. He made straight telegraph keys and semi-automatic keys under the trade name of \"Mac-Key.\" He had a couple of dozen variations of his telegraph keys. McElroy also made electronic code practice oscillators and inked tape keyers.\n\nMcElroy made telegraph keying equipment for US military personnel during World War II. He manufactured straight telegraph hand keys and semi-automatic keys for the public and the military in the mid 1940s. The Allied Electronics 1940s catalogs showed a variety of his telegraph keys. He amassed a fortune with this equipment that earned him millions of dollars. When his military telegraph equipment was no longer needed after the war he mismanaged his money and spent most of it.\nMcElroy won contests for receiving speed code and setting records when he was 21 years old. He was the first radio receiver to record a speed of more than 50 words per minute. For his accomplishments McElroy was awarded a silver cup that was inscribed \"Presented to the Champion Radio Code Operator of the World.\"\n\nMcElroy showed a demonstration of receiving 77 words per minute in 1935. He received a letter by the Cape Cod Radio Club attesting to this fact. The Club initially checked his speed with the 18-dot standard and recorded his speed at 90 words per minute. When the 21-dot standard is applied then his speed is computed to be 77 words per minute (18/21 times 90 wpm = 77 wpm). McElroy showed a speed of 75 words per minute in the Boston \"World of Tomorrow\" exhibition on 16 November 1938, although it is not counted as an official contest. He demonstrated a copy speed of 75.2 words per minute on 2 July 1939 at the Radio Club in Asheville, North Carolina.\n\nMcElroy was named to Philadelphia's Morse Telegraph Hall of Fame in 1964.\n\nMcElroy relocated his business to Littleton, Massachusetts around 1950 and in 1955 he sold it to Telegraph Apparatus Company (\"T.A.C.\") of Chicago. He worked for a few years at T.A.C. and other companies that built electronic equipment, then eventually retired. He gave code demonstrations in retirement and became interested in politics. McElroy died in November 1963.\n\nMcElroy donated funds for the radio communication instruments for the expedition of the 1947 Ronne Antarctic Research Expedition. Because of that a mountain peak in Antarctica was named for him, Mount McElroy. It is located inland from the coast just south of latitude −74°.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57868778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57868778", "title": "Theresa Raizenberg", "text": "Theresa Raizenberg\n\nTheresa Raizenberg is a well-known LGBTQ community equal rights activist. Together with Midi Achmat and Sally Gross, she was awarded the 2003 Galactic/Allison Masters Community Award. She is also one of the founding members of TAC. She has written in various activist journals and is active with the Gay and Lesbian Memory in Action (GALA) organization.\n"}
{"id": "1266526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1266526", "title": "Theudas (teacher of Valentinius)", "text": "Theudas (teacher of Valentinius)\n\nTheudas was allegedly the name of a Christian Gnostic thinker, who was a follower of Paul of Tarsus. He went on to teach the Gnostic Valentinus. The only evidence of this connection is the testimony of Valentinius' followers and Clement of Alexandria.\n"}
{"id": "1029562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029562", "title": "Vernon Watkins", "text": "Vernon Watkins\n\nVernon Phillips Watkins (27 June 1906 – 8 October 1967) was a Welsh poet, translator and painter. He was a close friend of fellow poet Dylan Thomas, who described him as \"the most profound and greatly accomplished Welshman writing poems in English\".\n\nVernon Watkins was born in Maesteg in Glamorgan, and brought up mainly in Swansea. His birth coincided with slight earth tremors; another baby born that night was christened John Earthquake Jones. Watkins' mother was Sarah (\"Sally\") daughter of Esther Thomas and James Phillips of Sarnau, Meidrim. Her father, a Congregationalist, was reputed to know most of the Welsh Bible by heart. Sarah had a love of poetry and literature, her headmistress arranged for her to spend two years as a pupil-teacher in Germany. Sarah married William Watkins in 1902, and they had three children: Vernon, Marjorie and Dorothy. William was a manager for Lloyds Bank in Wind Street, Swansea, and the family lived at \"Redcliffe\", a large Victorian house about from Swansea, at Caswell Bay.\n\nWatkins read fluently by the age of four, and at five announced that he would be a poet, although he did not wish to be published until after his death. He wrote poetry and read widely from eight or nine years of age and was especially fond of the works of John Keats and Shelley. He received his later education at a preparatory school in Sussex, Repton School in Derbyshire, and Magdalene College, Cambridge.\n\nIn his early years at Repton, Watkins' quiet, gentle character provoked regular bullying from older boys, though in his last years he attained more popularity as he was able to show capacity in tennis and cricket. After he died, in 1968, the school wrote that he was \"perhaps the best poet Repton has had\". His headmaster at Repton was Geoffrey Fisher, who became Archbishop of Canterbury. Despite his parents being Nonconformists, Watkins' school experiences influenced him to join the Church of England. He read modern languages at Cambridge, but left before completing his degree.\n\nHe met Dylan Thomas, who was to be a close friend, in 1935 when Watkins had returned to a job in a bank in Swansea. About once a week Thomas would come to Vernon's parents' house, situated on the very top of the cliffs of the Gower peninsula. Vernon was the only person from whom Thomas took advice when writing poetry and he was invariably the first to read his finished work. They remained lifelong friends, despite Thomas's failure, in the capacity of best man, to turn up to the wedding of Vernon and Gwen in 1944. Thomas used to laugh affectionately at his friend's gossamer-like personality and extreme sensibility. A story is told that one evening in Chelsea, during the war time blackout, they were walking along and Vernon tripped over something and fell to the ground. Thomas looked with a torch to see what the offending object was and to his delight all that they could find was a small, black feather (FitzGibbon 1966). Vernon was godfather to Thomas's son Llewelyn, the others being Richard Hughes and Augustus John. \"Letters to Vernon Watkins\" by Thomas was published in 1957. The 1983 book \"Portrait of a Friend\" by Watkins' wife Gwen, \"née\" Davies, deals with the relationship.\n\nOthers in the Swansea Group known as the \"Kardomah boys\" were the composer Daniel Jenkyn Jones, writer Charles Fisher and the artists Alfred Janes and Mervyn Levy. Vernon wrote the obituary for Dylan Thomas and when he died, Philip Larkin wrote his obituary.\n\nWatkins met Gwen, who came from Harborne, Birmingham, at Bletchley Park, where he worked during the Second World War as a cryptographer, and she, as a member of the WAAF, was engaged in breaking Luftwaffe codes. They were married at the Church of St Bartholomew the Great in London on 2 October 1944. The couple had five children.\n\nHis ambitions were for his poetry; in critical terms they were not to be fulfilled. On the other hand, he became a major figure for the Anglo-Welsh poetry tradition, and his poems were included in major anthologies. During the war he was for a time associated with the New Apocalyptics group. With his first book \"Ballad of the Mari Llwyd\" (1941) accepted by Faber and Faber, he had a publisher with a policy of sticking by their authors. In his case this may be considered to have had an adverse long-term effect on his reputation, in that it is generally thought that he over-published. Of the book, the publisher said:\n\n\"Mr Vernon Watkins is a Welsh poet whose work hitherto has appeared only in periodicals and in recent anthologies. The only influence apparent upon his poetry is one he has thoroughly assimilated - that of W. B. Yeats. Otherwise his style differs radically from that of any of his older contemporaries, except for a racial quality which gives it something in common with that of Dylan Thomas. Mr Watkins is undoubtedly a poet with an uncommon sense of rhythm as well as of imagery.\"\nThe British Library holds a manuscript draft of the poem with annotations by T. S. Eliot, showing Eliot at work as editor and board member at the publishing house Faber - his \"day job\" since 1925.\n\nWatkins wrote poetry for several hours every night and by way of contrast, Caitlin, Dylan Thomas's wife, could not recall her husband staying in even for one night during their whole married life. As well as Yeats Vernon was familiar with T. S. Eliot and Philip Larkin. He was awarded a University of Wales honorary Doctorate of Literature in 1966 after retiring from his job at the bank. He was being considered for Poet Laureate at the time of his death.\n\nA poem by Watkins from \"The Anglo-Welsh Review\"; the widow mentioned may be Caitlin Thomas.\n\nWatkins had developed a serious heart condition, which he made light of, insisting on playing his beloved tennis and squash with his usual vigour. He died on 8 October 1967, aged 61, playing tennis in Seattle, where he had gone to teach a course on modern poetry at the University of Washington.\n\nHis body was returned to Britain, and was buried in the Gower, at St Mary's Church, Pennard. A small granite memorial to him stands at Hunt's Bay, Gower, on which are inscribed two lines from his poem \"Taliesin in Gower\": \"I have been taught the script of stones, and I know the tongue of the wave.\"\n\nA portrait of Watkins by his friend Alfred Janes may be seen in the Glynn Vivian Art Gallery, Swansea. A group portrait of the Kardomah Boys by Jeff Phillips was unveiled at Tapestri Arts Centre in Swansea in June 2011. Featured in the painting are Vernon Watkins, John Pritchard, Dylan Thomas, Daniel Jones and Alfred Janes. The picture is based on a BBC \"Radio Times\" front cover from October 1949.\n\nIn March 2012, in the BBC Radio 3 programme \"Swansea's Other Poet\", Dr Rowan Williams, Archbishop of Canterbury, presented a portrait of Watkins. Williams regards Watkins as \"one of the 20th century's most brilliant and distinctive yet unjustly neglected voices\".\n\nIn October 2014 Swansea Council unveiled a blue plaque for Watkins outside the building on the corner of St Helen's Road and Beach Street in the city, where he spent 38 years working for Lloyds Bank. On 3 November 2014 the \"Poem of the Week\" in \"The Guardian\" was Watkins' \"Three Harps\".\n\nMost of Watkins's manuscripts are held by the National Library of Wales, Aberystwyth.\n\nHis grandson, Marley Watkins, has played football for Norwich City F.C. and for Bristol City F.C.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52937322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52937322", "title": "Wali Mohammed (ISN 560)", "text": "Wali Mohammed (ISN 560)\n\nWali Mohammed is a citizen of Afghanistan who was held in extrajudicial detention, for over fourteen and a half years, in the United States Guantanamo Bay detention camps, in Cuba.\n\nOriginally the Bush Presidency asserted that captives apprehended in the \"war on terror\" were not covered by the Geneva Conventions, and could be held indefinitely, without charge, and without an open and transparent review of the justifications for their detention.\nIn 2004 the United States Supreme Court ruled, in Rasul v. Bush, that Guantanamo captives were entitled to being informed of the allegations justifying their detention, and were entitled to try to refute them.\n\nFollowing the Supreme Court's ruling the Department of Defense set up the Office for the Administrative Review of Detained Enemy Combatants.\n\nScholars at the Brookings Institution, lead by Benjamin Wittes, listed the captives still held in Guantanamo in December 2008, according to whether their detention was justified by certain common allegations:\n\n\nWali Mohammed had a habeas corpus petition \"(05-cv-1124)\" filed on his behalf, in 2005.\n\nOn April 25, 2011, whistleblower organization WikiLeaks published formerly secret assessments drafted by Joint Task Force Guantanamo analysts.\nHis 10 page Joint Task Force Guantanamo assessment was drafted on October 23, 2008.\nIt was signed by camp commandant Rear Admiral David M. Thomas Jr.. He recommended continued detention.\n\nSpencer Ackerman, reporting in \"The Guardian\", wrote that the non-profit Afghanistan Analyst's Network named Mohammed as an individual whose status evaluations in Guantanamo had been characterized by \"gross incompetence\".\n\nMohammed was transferred to the United Arab Emirates on January 19, 2017, the last day of the Barack Obama Presidency.\n"}
{"id": "2295851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2295851", "title": "Yatuta Chisiza", "text": "Yatuta Chisiza\n\nYatuta Chisiza (born 1926 – died October 1967, near Blantyre, Malawi) was a former Malawian minister of home affairs who led a brief guerrilla incursion into the country in October 1967.\n\nHe entered Mwanza district from Tanzania with nine others. In the following clash with security forces on 9 October 1967 he and two other members of insurgent forces were killed, five captured, others fleeing.\n\nChisiza was born in the Karonga district of northern Malawi (then Nyasaland) in 1926, to Kaluli Chisiza, a Group Village Headman. He was educated at Uliwa Junior Primary School and at the mission school at Livingstonia. He subsequently worked as an Assistant Inspector of Police in Tanzania (then Tanganyika) and returned to Malawi in 1958. For a short time he, together with his brother Dunduzu Chisiza, attempted to go in business operating a butcher's shop in Blantyre market, but this venture soon failed.\n\nAfter the historic Nyasaland African Congress convention in January 1959, he was appointed as bodyguard to Hastings Kamuzu Banda, who later became the first premier of Malawi. He was arrested along with hundreds of others (including his brother) in the dawn raids of Operation Sunrise on 3 March 1959, when the colonial administration declared a state of emergency in Nyasaland. In 1960 he was named as Secretary General of the MCP under Banda's presidency. He was imprisoned in Khami Prison near Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia. He was released, some months after Banda, in September 1960.\n\nAfter the death of his brother, Dunduzu Chisiza, in September 1962, Yatuta was elected to the Legislative Council for Karonga district and Banda appointed him Minister of Home Affairs.\n\nNot long after Malawi had gained independence from Great Britain in July 1964, he was one of several cabinet ministers who, chafing under an increasingly autocratic leadership, were ousted by Banda in the Cabinet Crisis of 1964. He fled the country and, allegedly after undergoing military training in China, later conducted guerilla operations against the Banda regime from Tanzania. Here, Chisiza founded the Socialist League of Malawi (LESOMA), the most radical Malawian party in opposition to the Banda regime. Chisiza was succeeded by Attati Mpakati. Another exiled Malawian and important member of LESOMA was Mahoma M. Mwaungulu.\n\nIn 1964 Paul Theroux, an outspoken, American, Peace Corps Volunteer in Nyasaland, was declared persona non grata by Dr. Hastings Banda for supporting Yatuta, who was accused of attempting to overthrow the government. Theroux delivered a letter from an exiled opposition leader, David Rubadiri, to Chisiza in Tanzania. He also carried a coded messages from Chisiza to a \"Greek fellow\" in Blantyre. According to an account by Theroux in Esquire Magazine, when Theroux delivered the message on October 16 to the Greek baker, who was en route to delivering his bread to Ntcheu, \nthe baker \"trembled and went pale\".\" : guessed the Greek baker had been caught, interrogated by the Malawi Criminal Investigation Department about bread van\", and exposed Yatutas whearabouts and Theroux's involvement. Banda told the American ambassador that he had proof Theroux was plotting to kill him, and demanded the volunteer be sent home. He found out later that in his final day, instead of finding bread waiting in a van, Chisiza found Malawi soldiers, who ambushed and killed the revolutionary gunman from Tanzania where he was plotting against Banda. Paul Theroux was thrown out of the Peace Corp for his role in Malawi and is now a renowned novelist.\n\nChisiza was killed by a single shot to the head in October 1967, apparently by Malawian security forces, although rumours have attributed a role to security forces of the Ian Smith regime in Southern Rhodesia. His body was put on display at the Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital near Blantyre as a warning to other potential insurgents.\n\nHe was survived by two sons, Vyande Yatuta Chisiza and Kwacha Chisiza, and grandchildren: Millie, Bakalele, Mphikwa, Matebe, Mutale, Lusayo, Atupele, Mbakaya and Chikosa. He is the brother of Dunduzu Chisiza, and uncle to Du Chisiza Jnr.\n"}
