{"id": "35498336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35498336", "title": "1976 Conference of Communist and Workers Parties of Europe", "text": "1976 Conference of Communist and Workers Parties of Europe\n\nThe Conference of Communist and Workers Parties of Europe was an international meeting of communist parties, held in the city of East Berlin, capital of the communist-governed East Germany, on 29–30 June 1976. In all, 29 parties from all Europe (except Albania, Iceland and some microstates) participated in the conference.\n\nThe conference highlighted several important changes in the European communist movement. It exhibited the declining influence of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and a widening gap between the independent and orthodox camps amongst European communist parties, with the ascent of a new political trend, Eurocommunism.\n\nHeld in Moscow, the 1969 International Meeting of Communist and Workers Parties was a debacle for its Soviet hosts, as several parties (most notably the Workers Party of Korea and the Workers Party of Vietnam), had boycotted the event, whilst others had used the meeting as a platform to condemn the Soviet Union's 1968 military intervention in Czechoslovakia. Following the 1969 colloquium, proposals were put forward for another international conference, with the Communist Party of the Soviet Union hoping to regain its lost prestige through such an event. However, many constituents of the world communist movement, primarily in Asia but also in Europe, were opposed to the holding of another international conference. Rather than holding a meeting representing the global communist movement, by the mid-1970s, most of the main communist parties in Europe had expressed an interest in holding a specifically European conference instead. During that decade, several political changes had occurred in Western Europe that various communist parties wanted to take advantage of; notably, Spain and Portugal had overseen the transition from right-wing military juntas to representative democracies, while the parliamentary isolation faced by the French and Italian communist parties had come to an end.\n\nDuring the 1970s, a new theoretical trend had emerged in several Western European communist parties that came to be known as Eurocommunism. Rejecting the domination of the Soviet Communist Party, it emphasized the development of theories and practices that were more applicable to Western Europe. The Soviet government disliked this Eurocommunist trend, and hoped that through holding a conference, they could achieve a document constituting a \"de facto\" charter of the European communist movement which would maintain their dominant role. Soviet discourse did at the time emphasize the importance of a united communist movement across the continent, denying differences between parties and labelling the distinction between Eastern and Western Europe as artificial.\n\nThere was a prolonged process of preparation before the conference convened. Intense negotiations took place between October 1974 and June 1976, although accounts vary as to how many meetings actually took place, with claims ranging from 12 to 16. The first preparatory meeting was held in Warsaw, capital of Poland. Throughout the preparatory process, the Spanish, Italian, French, Romanian and Yugoslav parties pressed for recognition of the autonomy of each party, whilst the Czechoslovaks, Polish, Hungarians, Bulgarians and East Germans rallied to the defense of Soviet positions. The disagreements during the preparatory process delayed the conference for a year.\n\nAt an early stage, an agreement was reached that any document approved by the conference would have to be adopted by consensus. Another agreement was that the agenda of the conference would be limited to themes relating to peace, security, disarmament and the struggle for social progress. The last two editorial meetings for the drafting of the conference resolution were held in East Berlin on June 10–11 and June 24, 1976.\n\nUnlike the previous International Meetings of Communist and Workers Parties, the League of Communists of Yugoslavia participated in the preparations and the conference (however, the Party of Labour of Albania did not participate). The Communist Party of Greece (Interior), a Eurocommunist splinter group, was barred from participating in the conference. The Icelandic People's Alliance boycotted the conference.\n\nParallel to the conference preparations, the Italian Communist Party organized two bilateral events with its two main Eurocommunist counterparts; a meeting with the Communist Party of Spain in Livorno in July 1975 and a summit with the French Communist Party in Rome in the summer 1976. The Eurocommunists were not a solid bloc, and sharp differences between the parties were manifested during the preparatory process. The French party, whilst criticizing the lack of civil liberties in the Soviet Union, was hesitant to give up proletarian internationalism for the concept of international solidarity proposed by the Italians. Differences on how to analyze the situation in Portugal following the Carnation Revolution divided the French and Italian parties. The French voiced their support for the strategy of the Portuguese Communist Party whilst the Italians publicly criticized the Portuguese party.\n\nAlbeit without direct polemical exchanges, the speeches made at the conference showed diversity between positions the communist parties present. In their speeches, Santiago Carrillo, Enrico Berlinguer and George Marchais decried aspects of the Soviet political system. Berlinguer stated that West European communists favoured a democratic state, political pluralism, freedom of expression, free trade unions and religious freedoms. In his address to the assembled delegates, the Yugoslav leader Josip Broz Tito stated that \"[c]ommunists must accept different roads in the struggle for socialism, independence, equality and non-interference in internal affairs\". The Romanian leader Nicolae Ceauşescu also voiced support for principles of independence of individual parties and non-interference. Other participants that argued for the Eurocommunist cause at the conference were Lars Werner from Sweden, Gordon McLennan from Britain, Ermenegildo Gasperoni from San Marino and, to a lesser extent, the Finnish Communist Party chief Aarne Saarinen.\n\nOn the other hand, there were also interventions from other delegates whom re-affirmed their adherence to the line of the Soviet party. The Bulgarian communist leader Todor Zhivkov, in his intervention, took a firmer stand than the Soviets in upholding the notion of general laws of socialist development (as opposed to the idea that each party should develop its own way of building socialism), denouncing revisionism and underlining the dual responsibility of the individual communist party (both to its own people and the world communist movement). Gustáv Husák of Czechoslovakia and the East German host, Erich Honecker, were also amongst the prominent spokespersons of the orthodox camp. Other parties that voiced their support for the Soviets, in varying degrees, were the Greek, Portuguese, West German, Luxembourgish, Danish, West Berlin, Turkish, Norwegian and Austrian parties.\n\nThe Soviet party leader Leonid Brezhnev adopted a more conciliatory tone than his orthodox colleagues. He urged the conference to reaffirmation its commitment to proletarian internationalism, but without references to dual responsibility and mutual assistance (which had been cornerstones of Soviet discourse on the subject). Edward Gierek of Poland and János Kádár of Hungary also placed themselves within the orthodox camp in their speeches to the conference, but kept a lower profile and expressed certain individual nuances.\n\nApart from the main antagonists at the Berlin meeting, there was also a grouping of parties that were reluctant to choose either the Eurocommunist or the orthodox side. This grouping included the Cypriot, Belgian, Dutch, Irish and Swiss delegates.\n\nThe final document of the conference was titled \"For Peace, Security, Cooperation and Social Progress in Europe\". The document contained several novelties compared to previous practices in the world communist movement. One of the most prominent features of the document was the recognition of the principle of \"equality and independence of all communist parties and their right to decide their own policies without external interference\". The Soviet party had thus, at least in theory, conceded to the Eurocommunist demands for the principle of non-interference in the affairs of other parties. The document carried no mention of Marxism-Leninism, instead there was a reference to the 'great ideas' of Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels and V. I. Lenin. References to 'proletarian internationalism' were substituted with the term 'international solidarity'. Moreover, the document stated that fraternal criticism between communist parties would not constitute anti-communism (implying that criticism of Soviet policies would not be considered as 'anti-Sovietism', as the official Soviet discourse had argued). The document was not approved through signature or a vote, it was simply issued, a fact later criticized by the Yugoslavs.\n\nThe conference also endorsed the Helsinki process and international human rights covenants.\n\nUnlike the declaration of the 1969 meeting, the Berlin conference document did not contain any condemnation of China. The Soviets had pushed for a condemnation of China ahead of the conference, but the Yugoslavs, the French and the Italians resisted these moves.\n\nAt the Berlin conference, the French Communist Party rejected the possibility of holding future conferences on the same lines.\n\nThe verbatim of the speeches at the conference were presented in full in \"Neues Deutschland\", the central organ of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany, whilst the more critical aspects were censored out in the reports in the Soviet newspaper \"Pravda\". In particular the speech of Carrillo was very difficult for the Soviets to digest. \"Pravda\" sought to portray the conference as a victory for proletarian internationalism and communist unity, downplaying the divisions that had appeared at the meeting. Other Socialist Bloc newspapers also censored the speeches from the conference.\n\nFollowing the Berlin conference the Eurocommunists would step up their critiques of Soviet policies further. They began to foster relations with dissidents inside the Socialist Bloc and, occasionally, defended them against state repression.\n\nSoviet party at times responded in kind to Eurocommunist critiques through veiled ideological counter-accusations. A notable counter-attack by the orthodox camp was an article by Zhivkov in \"Problems of Peace and Socialism\" in December 1976, which decried Eurocommunism as an anti-Soviet 'subversion against proletarian internationalism'.\n\nThe Yugoslav party on its side claimed that the Soviets had corrupted the conference documentation, that the Soviets had tried to portray a greater degree of unity between the parties than what had actually been the case at the conference.\n\nIn April 1980 a new European conference was held in Paris, but under different terms. The principle of consensus was gone at the Paris conference, and the Italian, Romanian, Spanish, Yugoslav, Icelandic, British, Dutch and Sammarinese communist parties boycotted the event. The French Communist Party, co-sponsors of the meeting together with the Polish United Workers Party, rejected the notion that the Paris meeting would have been of a similar kind as the Berlin conference as no common positions on strategy had been approved.\n\n"}
{"id": "55202964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55202964", "title": "2016 in politics", "text": "2016 in politics\n\nThese are some of the notable events relating to politics in 2016.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54084872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54084872", "title": "2017 vote of no confidence in the government of Mariano Rajoy", "text": "2017 vote of no confidence in the government of Mariano Rajoy\n\nA vote of no confidence in the Spanish People's Party Government of Mariano Rajoy was announced on 27 April 2017 and held on 13–14 June. The motion of no confidence was formally registered on 19 May by Unidos Podemos after a massive corruption case involving high-ranking PP officials unveiled maneuvers from the Rajoy government to influence the judicial system in order to cover-up the scandal. This was the third vote of no confidence held in Spain since the country's transition to democracy, after the unsuccessful 1980 and 1987 no confidence votes. Votes of no confidence in Spain are constructive, meaning that confidence from a Prime Minister may only be withdrawn if a positive majority for a prospective successor exists. Opposition parties PSOE, Ciudadanos and PNV announced their opposition to any candidate proposed by Podemos, meaning that the motion was unlikely to succeed.\n\nThe motion was defeated on 14 June 2017, gathering the support of Unidos Podemos, Compromís, ERC and EH Bildu (for a total of 82 favourable votes), the opposition of PP, Ciudadanos, UPN, CCa and FAC (170 votes against) and the abstentions of PSOE, PDeCAT, PNV and NCa (97).\n\nThis was the first motion of no confidence to be registered in Spain by a parliamentary group different than one of the two largest ones.\n\nThe Second Rajoy Government was sworn into office on 31 October 2016, after a ten-month political deadlock and two general elections and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party's (PSOE) decision not to block Mariano Rajoy's investiture bid. However, the resulting government was a minority one, and throughout the ensuing months it struggled to get its bills passed into law. Furthermore, the ruling People's Party (PP) came under increasing political pressure after a political scandal in Murcia forced regional President Pedro Antonio Sánchez to resign, having been accused of several corruption crimes.\n\nIn April 2017, after only five months into its term, the PP was shaken by a succession of events that smashed attempts to relaunch the party's image. Just as Prime Minister Rajoy was called to testify as witness at the Gürtel graft trial, a new, massive case of alleged corruption was unveiled (dubbed as \"Lezo\"), joining the already ongoing investigations into the Púnica and Gürtel scandals. Operation Lezo resulted in the arrest of former President of the Community of Madrid Ignacio González, who was accused of diverting millions of euros from the public treasury into tax havens and to pay off his party's debts during his tenure as regional premier. The scope of the new scandal reached heights never seen in Spanish politics before. Several companies (namely OHL, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Indra and Canal de Isabel II, among others), suspect of having illegally financed the Madrilenian PP, had their headquarters in Spain registered by the police in search of incriminating documentation. Party veteran and former González's boss Esperanza Aguirre resigned from her remaining political offices after seeing many of her former close advisers imprisoned or accused.\nThe leaking of a series of recordings that involved González and various high-ranking PP and government officials—including former President of the Valencian Government Eduardo Zaplana and Justice Minister Rafael Catalá—unveiled a plot from the Interior and Justice ministries to cover-up the scandal, seriously putting judicial independence in Spain into question. In one of the leaked recordings, González pointed to a tape that would allegedly show Rajoy receiving bribes from a businessman, and that this would have been used by Intereconomía CEO Julio Ariza in the past to blackmail him. Concurrently, the anti-corruption chief prosecutor, Manuel Moix—revealed by police wiretaps to have been favoured for the job by Ignacio González before his appointment in February 2017—was accused of trying to stop investigations into the PP graft accusations. José Antonio Nieto, Secretary of State for Security—Juan Ignacio Zoido's deputy in the Interior Ministry—came under pressure after he was accused of revealing details of the ongoing investigations to González's brother in a private meeting held on 8 March 2017.\n\nBy mid-May, the string of scandals had splattered Cristina Cifuentes, incumbent President of Madrid, who was accused by the Civil Guard of having been involved in the contract awarding procedures that led to her party's illegal financing between 2007 and 2012. By this time, it was also concluded that Esperanza Aguirre had won the 2007 and 2011 regional elections unfairly, with her campaign budgets well above those legally declared, through a system that \"hurted political pluralism\". Allegedly, these illegal funds would also have been used in Mariano Rajoy's bid for premiership in the 2008 general election. Suspicions of embezzlement in the Community of Madrid reached as far back as 2001, during Alberto Ruiz-Gallardón's premiership, whose cabinet at the time was put under investigation by the Civil Guard. In the meantime, a separate investigation by the National Police into the ongoing scandals involving the family of former President of the Government of Catalonia Jordi Pujol linked former Labour Minister Manuel Pimentel and Ignacio López del Hierro, husband of María Dolores de Cospedal—incumbent Defence Minister and PP Secretary General—to another corruption plot in Africa, with connections to the Lezo Operation.\n\nAs a result of the scandals, and Rajoy's refusal to take any action despite opposition calls, Unidos Podemos members—comprising Podemos, United Left, En Comú Podem and En Marea—announced that they would table a motion of no confidence and would request support from PSOE and other parties. The rivalries between the opposition parties, however, meant that the initiative was unlikely to succeed: PSOE rejected to support the motion and accused Podemos leader Pablo Iglesias of \"bad faith\" and of interfering within the party's ongoing leadership primary election, whereas Ciudadanos—on which the Rajoy government relied for confidence and supply support—labeled the move as \"circus\". The Basque Nationalist Party also voiced its opposition to the maneuver. Nonetheless, the Socialists were put in a difficult situation, as opposing the motion would see them rallying behind Rajoy's government amid the ongoing scandals and at a time when they were still without a leader, after the party crisis that led to Pedro Sánchez's resignation and Rajoy's investiture in October 2016.\n\nThe Spanish Constitution of 1978 required for motions of no confidence to be proposed by, at least, \"one tenth of deputies\"—35 out of 350—and to include \"a candidate for the Presidency of the Government\". For a motion of no confidence to be successful, it had to be voted favourably by at least an absolute majority (176) in the Congress of Deputies. The vote could not be held until at least five days after the motion's registration, but the law allowed for other parties to fill in alternative motions within the first two days.\n\nOn 19 May 2017, Unidos Podemos formally registered a no confidence motion against Mariano Rajoy, moved by the group's spokesperson in Congress, Irene Montero, and 36 other deputies, with Pablo Iglesias as the party's candidate. The text of the motion opened with the following considerations:\n\nPodemos candidate Pablo Iglesias invited the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party to an agreement, but acknowledged that the initiative was likely going to be defeated. Iglesias claimed that he knew he would not \"come out as Prime Minister from this vote of no confidence, but it is my responsibility\" and reported that \"this motion will serve to mark a before and an after and to demonstrate that there is a real alternative to the PP\". Nonetheless, Iglesias acknowledged that the move was not without \"enormous risks\", as while previous motions of no confidence were also defeated, the one in 1980 was successful in promoting the figure of Felipe González—leading him to win the 1982 election in a landslide—whereas the one in 1987 signaled the twilight of Antonio Hernández Mancha's political career. The motion promoters held a demonstration in Puerta del Sol, Madrid, on 20 May, where thousands gathered in support of the initiative.\n\nCompromís enthusiastically welcomed the motion and announced their support to Unidos Podemos. Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC) was sympathetic to the initiative, but conditioned it on Podemos supporting an independence referendum to be held in Catalonia. This same condition was demanded by the Catalan European Democratic Party (PDeCAT), which nonetheless remained more skeptical and argued that they would \"evaluate the 'pros and cons'\" of supporting the motion before taking a decision. EH Bildu showed their willingness to support the initiative if Podemos reassured their commitment to the \"right to decide\", which they already contemplated in their election manifesto. The motion also received the support of trade unions UGT and CCOO, which voiced their \"disappointment and sadness\" with opposition parties not backing it.\n\nThe PSOE initially announced that they would vote against the motion, arguing that it was a \"disrespect\" and that it was designed to interfere with the party's primary election, scheduled for 21 May. All three candidates for the party leadership—Susana Díaz, Pedro Sánchez and Patxi López—rejected Podemos' move. Interim PSOE President Javier Fernández put down Iglesias attempts to agree a meeting with him to discuss his initiative, despite Podemos offering PSOE to propose their own candidate instead. Citizens (Cs) ruled out supporting the motion and dubbed it as a \"circus number\", whereas the PP mocked the initiative as an \"absurdity\". PP electoral partners, Navarrese People's Union (UPN) and Asturias Forum (FAC), were expected to oppose the motion, whereas Canarian Coalition (CCa) and New Canaries (NCa) hinted at their rejection as well. The Basque Nationalist Party (PNV) dubbed the initiative as \"an absolute awkwardness\" and criticized Podemos for announcing the motion without speaking it with the rest of parties first, but did not rule out to enter negotiations to support it.\n\nOn 21 May, after Pedro Sánchez's sudden re-election as PSOE leader, a new political scenario arose. During the leadership election campaign, Sánchez had hinted at registering a future motion of no confidence on Rajoy, but left it clear that he would not support Iglesias' one, as Unidos Podemos commanded fewer seats than the Socialist Party. However, on 22 May, Pablo Iglesias offered Sánchez to withdraw Podemos' motion on the condition that the PSOE registered its own instead, with Sánchez as candidate. However, the PSOE hinted at abstaining from the vote instead, a position which was confirmed on 7 June on the grounds that, while the party agreed with the motivations behind the motion, it did not with the way in which it was brought forward. Some commented that, actually, Sánchez was in agreement of the motion but was privately upset that the initiative was not his, and it was said that he had plans to table a motion of no confidence of his own by the end of 2017, awaiting in the meantime to take full control over his party.\n\nConcurrently, the parliamentary debate and the vote on the motion were scheduled to be held from 13 June.\n\nThe debate on the motion of no confidence started on 13 June at 9:00 UTC with a two-hour-long speech by Unidos Podemos spokesperson, Irene Montero, and was followed by a surprise intervention from Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, who had been widely expected not to participate in the debate. Pablo Iglesias' speech as candidate followed shortly thereafter, with both Rajoy and Iglesias staging a parliamentary duel which lasted for hours. Rajoy claimed that \"a government of Iglesias would be a punishment for Spain\", whereas Iglesias reminded the PP about their corruption scandals and offered the PSOE an alliance in the future to bring the PP government down. The new PSOE spokesperson, José Luis Ábalos, announced that the PSOE would abstain and that the motion \"would not succeed\" because \"numbers don't add up\". He, however, thanked Iglesias \"on his tone\" and \"picked up [Iglesias'] invitation\" for an understanding, but did not clarify whether Pedro Sánchez would try a motion of his own in the foreseeable future.\n\nERC's spokesperson Joan Tardá praised Iglesias for his initiative and announced his party's support to the motion, whereas EH Bildu announced a 'critical yes' on the grounds that it was \"a priority to evict the most corrupt party in Europe from government\" while demanding Iglesias his full support to the right of self-determination.\n\nAs expected, the motion was defeated on 14 June 2017, having gathered the support of Unidos Podemos, Compromís, ERC and EH Bildu for a total of 82 favourable votes and 170 against. However, during the debate both Unidos Podemos and PSOE hinted at the possibility of a future understanding that could see them both working in a joint motion. Such an invitation was offered by Iglesias who, during a reply to PSOE's spokesperson José Luis Ábalos, stated that Podemos would \"commit [themselves] with the new PSOE in search of an alternative majority\" and urged the Socialists to \"work together during the summer to negotiate a motion of no confidence\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3104732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3104732", "title": "Abidjan Peace Accord", "text": "Abidjan Peace Accord\n\nThe Abidjan Peace Accord was a treaty signed in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire on 30 November 1996 to try to bring an end to the Sierra Leone Civil War (1991–2002). The two main signatories were President Ahmad Tejan Kabbah of Sierra Leone and Foday Sankoh, leader of the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) rebel group. However, Sankoh refused to honour the terms of the agreement, and Kabbah was forced into exile by a May 1997 military coup (though he regained power the following year), so the Accord failed to bring about peace.\n\nThe civil war began on 23 March 1991, when the RUF attempted to overthrow the government of President Joseph Saidu Momoh. A 1992 military coup saw Captain Valentine Strasser, barely 25 years old, seize power, but the fighting continued. Strasser himself would be ousted by Julius Maada Bio in 1996. Peace negotiations were pursued intermittently through the regime changes.\n\nOn 25 February 1996, delegations from both sides, along with United Nations Special Envoy Berhanu Dinka and representatives of the Organisation of African Unity and the Commonwealth, met in Abidjan for four days. On 25–26 March, Bio and Sankoh met face-to-face for talks in Yamoussoukro, Ivory Coast, under the auspices of that country's president, Henri Konan Bédié. Days later, Ahmad Tejan Kabbah was elected President of Sierra Leone. Kabba and Sankoh met on 22–23 April in Yamoussoukro and agreed to a ceasefire. Talks continued, though both sides accused the other of breaching the ceasefire. In October or November, Kabba again met with Sankoh, this time in Abidjan. Finally, on 22 November, the Abidjan Peace Accord was signed, the government having made concessions and the RUF having suffered severe military defeats.\n\nThe accord had a broad range of goals, the main ones being:\n\n\nThe National Commission for the Consolidation of Peace was set up, but accomplished little or nothing. The Neutral Monitoring Group was supposed to number 700, but the RUF objected, proposing it consist of only 120 monitors, and agreement could not be reached. Then RUF spokesmen and supporters of the Commission for the Consolidation of Peace, Fayia Musa, Ibrahim Deen-Jalloh and Philip Palmer, attempted to overthrow Sankoh as leader of the RUF after Sankoh was arrested in Nigeria. The three were captured by RUF forces, and Sankoh consolidated power in the RUF. A military coup on 25 May 1997 by Johnny Paul Koroma, leader of the newly formed Armed Forces Revolutionary Council, resulted in an alliance with the RUF. This was certainly the death knell for any hope of peace stemming from the Abidjan Accord.\n\n"}
{"id": "32933518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32933518", "title": "Against Equality", "text": "Against Equality\n\nFounded in 2009, Against Equality (A.E.) is an online archive of writings and arts that critique mainstream gay and lesbian politics. A.E. currently focuses on issues regarding the institution of marriage, the U.S. military, and the prison-industrial complex via hate crime law.\n\nAgainst Equality is an anti-capitalist collective of radical queer and trans writers, thinkers, and artists. A.E. maintains an online archive of written work and cultural references. A.E. has also self-published three anthologies that highlight work from the three sections of their online archive. These three anthologies were combined into a single book and was published by AK Press in April 2014.\n\nA.E. published its first book in the fall of 2010. \"Against Equality: Queer Critiques of Gay Marriage\" contains essays and op-ed pieces by prominent queer thinkers, including Kate Bornstein, Eric A. Stanley, Dean Spade, Craig Willse, Kenyon Farrow, Kate Raphael, Deeg, John D'Emilio, Ryan Conrad, Yasmin Nair, MJ Kaufman, Katie Miles, and Mattilda Bernstein Sycamore. \"Against Equality: Queer Critiques of Gay Marriage\" ranked sixth on AK Press Distribution's Top 10 of 2010 list.\n\nA.E published the second book, \"Against Equality: Don’t Ask to Fight Their Wars\", in the fall of 2011 and contains a collection of essays and illustrations critiquing the mainstream gay and lesbian politics and its uncritical approach to Don't ask, don't tell. Contributors include Mattilda Bernstein Sycamore, Kenyon Farrow, Cecilia Cissell Lucas, Yasmin Nair, Erica Meiners, Therese Quinn, Tamara K. Nopper, Larry Goldsmith, Jamal Rashad Jones, Bill Andriette, and illustrator Mr. Fish.\n\nA.E. published the third and final book in its trilogy, \"Against Equality: Prisons Will Not Protect You\", in the fall of 2012. This book focuses on hate crime law and the prison industrial complex. Contributors include Dean Spade, Jason Lydon, the Sylvia Rivera Law Project, Liliana Segura, Jack Aponte, Yasmin Nair, Imani Keith Henry, Sébastien Barraud, Erica Meiners, Liam Michaud, Josh Pavan, and Bridget Simpson.\n\nAK Press released a three-in-one anthology titled \"Against Equality: Queer Revolution, Not Mere Inclusion\" in March 2014 that combines the collective's previous three anthologies and includes a new introduction from the collective.\n\nMembers of the Against Equality collective have also traveled extensively to speak at bookstores, community spaces, colleges, and universities across the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "1790746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1790746", "title": "Amban", "text": "Amban\n\nAmban (Manchu:\"Amban\", Mongol: Амбан, Tibetan:ཨམ་བན་\"am ben\", Uighur:ئامبان་\"am ben\") is a Manchu language word meaning \"high official,\" which corresponds to a number of different official titles in the Qing imperial government. For instance, members of the Grand Council were called \"Coohai nashūn-i amban\" () in Manchu and Qing governor-generals were called \"Uheri kadalara amban\" ().\n\nThe word \"amban\" was transcribed into Chinese as ().\n\nBy far the most known ambans were the Qing imperial residents (Manchurian: \"Seremšeme tehe amban\"; ; and Tibetan: \"Ngang pai\") in Tibet, Qinghai, Mongolia and Xinjiang, which recognized Qing authority, but were not governed as regular provinces and retained many of their existing institutions.\nThe Qing imperial residents can be roughly compared to a European resident in a protectorate (e.g. a British Indian princely state), the real rapport depending on historical circumstances rather than a general job description for every amban, while his authority often was very extensive, rather like a provincial governor.\n\nThe Qing Emperor appointed an amban in Tibet (), who represented Qing authority over the Buddhist theocracy of Tibet, and commanded over 2,000 troops stationed in Lhasa. The chief amban was aided by an assistant amban () and both of them reported to the Qing Lifan Yuan. Their duties included acting as intermediary between China and the Hindu kingdom of Nepal (Ghorkhas Country); a secretary () dealt with native affairs. Three Chinese commissioners (), of the class of sub-prefects, were stationed at Lhasa, Tashilumbo and Ngari. \nThe Qing imperial resident in Tibet was introduced in 1727 and most ambasa were appointed from the Manchu Eight Banners, a few were Han Chinese or Mongol. The Emperors used ambasa to supervise Tibetan politics, and the Qianlong, Jiaqing and Daoguang Emperors each decreed that the Dalai Lama and Panchen Lama were bound to follow the leadership or guidance of the ambasa in carrying out the administration of Tibet.\n\nZhao Erfeng, a Han Chinese Bannerman, was appointed as Amban of Tibet by the Qing government. He was killed during the Xinhai Revolution by Chinese Republican Revolutionary forces intent on overthrowing the Qing dynasty. After the fall of the Qing dynasty in 1912, the Manchu Amban Lien Yu and his Chinese soldiers were expelled from Lhasa.\n\nAltishahr, meaning six cities, consisted of Uyghur cities of Yarkand, Kashgar, Khotan, Kuche, Aksu, and Yangi Hisar (or Ush-Turfan). The Qing dynasty's wars with the Zunghar Khanate pushed them into the area and by 1759 they had obtained control of this region. After the rebellion of Yakub Beg, Altishahr was incorporated into the administration of Xinjiang, which became a formal province in the Qing empire in 1884. Between 1761 and 1865, the Qing Empire appointed an imperial resident (Manchu: \"hebei amban\"; Chinese: \"zǒnglǐ huíjiāng shìwù cānzàn dàchén\" 總理回疆事務參贊大臣) to Altishahr, which today forms part of southern Xinjiang. The imperial resident, who resided in Kashgar, Ush Turfan or Yarkand and exercised Qing authority over the region. The imperial resident was controlled with local imperial agents (Manchu: \"Baita icihiyara amban\"; Chinese: \"Bànshì dàchén\" 辦事大臣), who were sent to most important cities in the region, where they ruled in conjunction with the local officials (Uighur:ھاكىمبەگ \"hakim beg\", Chinese: 阿奇木伯克), who were given ranks in the Qing civil service and were ultimately accountable to the imperial agent.\n\nIn the holy city of Urga, an amban (Mongol: Хүрээний амбан ноён, Chinese: 庫倫辦事大臣 \"Kùlún bànshì dàchén\") was stationed in order to assert Qing control over the Mongol dependencies. He controlled all temporal matters, and was specially charged with the control of the frontier town of Kiakhta and the trade conducted there with the Russians. Urga was also the residence of the Jebtsundamba Khutuktu, who was the spiritual head of the Mongol Khalkha tribes. The Khutuktu ranked third in degree of veneration among the dignitaries in the Tibetan Buddhism, after the Dalai Lama and Panchen Lama. He resided in a sacred quarter on the western side of the town and acted as a spiritual counterpart of the Qing amban.\n\nAfter the fall of the Qing dynasty in 1912, the Manchu amban was expelled by Mongol forces, fleeing to China proper via Russia.\n\nIn the early Qing, the word \"amban\" was also used in the title of the military governors (昂邦章京, \"angbang-zhangjing\", which is a transcription of the Manchu \"amban-jianggin\"; R.L. Edmonds translates the title in English as \"military deputy-lieutenant governor\") in the northeastern provinces of the Qing Empire, viz. Jilin and Heilongjiang. The first \"amban-jianggin\" appointed in the region was the Ninguta garrison commander Sarhuda, who became the \"amban-jianggin\" of Ninguta in June 1653.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21243340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21243340", "title": "Anti-Nazi boycott of 1933", "text": "Anti-Nazi boycott of 1933\n\nThe Anti-Nazi Boycott of 1933 was a boycott of German products by foreign critics of the Nazi Party in response to an organized campaign of violence and boycotting undertaken by Hitler's Nazi Party against the Jews of Germany following his appointment as Chancellor of Germany on January 30, 1933. Those in the United Kingdom, United States and other places worldwide who opposed Hitler's antisemitic policies developed the boycott and its accompanying protests to encourage Nazi Germany to end the regime's often-expressed anti-Jewish attitude.\n\nFollowing Adolf Hitler's appointment as German Chancellor in January 1933, an organized campaign of violence and boycotting which was undertaken by Hitler's Nazi Party against the Jews of Germany, to which critics responded with worldwide calls for protest and boycotting.\n\nHowever, the Central Jewish Association of Germany was of the opinion that the Nazi government was not deliberately provoking anti-Jewish pogroms. It issued a statement of support for the regime and held that \"the responsible government authorities [i.e. the Hitler regime] are unaware of the threatening situation,\" saying, \"we do not believe our German fellow citizens will let themselves be carried away into committing excesses against the Jews.\" Nevertheless, even though vandalism of Jewish businesses and property across Germany was already occurring, prominent Jewish business leaders wrote letters in support of the Nazi regime calling on officials in the Jewish community in Palestine, as well as Jewish organizations abroad, to drop their efforts in organizing an economic boycott. In point of fact, the Nazi anti-Jewish boycott was supported by the regime, with Hermann Göring stating that \"I shall employ the police, and without mercy, wherever German people are hurt, but I refuse to turn the police into a guard for Jewish stores\".\n\nIn March 1933, the international critics, transformed their verbal protests into a worldwide, organized economic boycott against German goods. \n\nOn March 24, 1933, The London tabloid newspaper \"The Daily Express\" printed an issue with the headline \"Judea Declares War on Germany\" detailing the Jewish boycott of German goods. Because of the wording of the headline, Holocaust deniers have exploited the article in order to claim the Jews declared a \"literal\" war on Germany, when in fact what was described was an economic boycott.\n\nAfter seeing no improvement in the situation in the weeks following the first protests, representatives of the American Jewish Committee, American Jewish Congress and B'nai B'rith met in New York City and established a joint committee to monitor the plight of German Jewry. At that point they were in agreement that any current public protests might well further harm the Jews of Germany.\n\nThe boycott began in March 1933 in both Europe and the US. It continued until the entry of the US into the war.\n\nThe unrelenting Nazi abuse of Jews in Germany in the subsequent weeks led the American Jewish Congress to reconsider its opposition to public protests. In a contentious four-hour meeting held at the Hotel Astor in New York City on March 20, 1933, 1,500 representatives of various Jewish organizations met to consider a proposal by the American Jewish Congress to hold a protest meeting at Madison Square Garden on March 27, 1933, as an additional 1,000 people attempting to enter the meeting were held back by police. New York Supreme Court Justice Joseph M. Proskauer and James N. Rosenberg spoke out against a proposed boycott of German goods that had been introduced by J. George Freedman of the Jewish War Veterans. Proskauer expressed his concerns against \"causing more trouble for the Jews in Germany by unintelligent action\", protesting against plans for mass meetings and reading a letter from Judge Irving Lehman that warned that \"the meeting may add to the terrible dangers of the Jews in Germany\". Honorary president Rabbi Stephen Samuel Wise delivered a rejoinder to Proskauer and Rosenberg, criticizing their failure to attend previous AJCongress meetings and insisting that \"no attention would be paid to the edict\" if mass protests had been rejected by the group. Wise noted that \"The time for prudence and caution is past. We must speak up like men. How can we ask our Christian friends to lift their voices in protest against the wrongs suffered by Jews if we keep silent? … What is happening in Germany today may happen tomorrow in any other land on earth unless its is challenged and rebuked. It is not the German Jews who are being attacked. It is the Jews.\" The group voted to go ahead with the meeting at Madison Square Garden.\n\nIn a meeting held at the Hotel Knickerbocker on March 21 by the Jewish War Veterans of the United States of America, former congressman William W. Cohen advocated in support of a strict boycott of German goods, stating that \"Any Jew buying one penny's worth of merchandise made in Germany is a traitor to his people.\" The Jewish War Veterans planned a protest march in Manhattan from Cooper Square to New York City Hall, in which 20,000 would participate, including Jewish veterans in uniform, with no banners or placards allowed other than American and Jewish flags.\n\nA series of protest rallies were held on March 27, 1933, with the New York City rally held at Madison Square Garden with an overflow crowd of 55,000 inside and outside the arena and parallel events held in Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Philadelphia and 70 other locations, with the proceedings at the New York rally broadcast worldwide. Speakers at the Garden included American Federation of Labor president William Green, Senator Robert F. Wagner, former Governor of New York Al Smith and a number of Christian clergyman, joining together in a call for the end of the brutal treatment of German Jews. Rabbi Moses S. Margolies, spiritual leader of Manhattan's Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, rose from his sickbed to address the crowd, bringing the 20,000 inside to their feet with his prayers that the antisemitic persecution cease and that the hearts of Israel's enemies should be softened. Jewish organizations — including the American Jewish Congress, American League for Defense of Jewish Rights, B'nai B'rith, the Jewish Labor Committee and Jewish War Veterans — joined together in a call for a boycott of German goods.\n\nThe Nazis and some outside Germany portrayed the boycott as an act of aggression, with the British newspaper the \"Daily Express\" using the headline: \"Judea Declares War on Germany\" on March 24, 1933. Nazi officials countered the protests as slanders against the Nazis perpetrated by \"Jews of German origin\", with their Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels proclaiming that a series of \"sharp countermeasures\" would be taken against the Jews of Germany in response to the protests of American Jews. Goebbels announced a one-day boycott of Jewish businesses in Germany of his own to commence on April 1, 1933 that Aryan Germans would aim against Jewish-owned businesses, which would be lifted if anti-Nazi protests were suspended. This was the German government's first officially sanctioned anti-Jewish boycott. If the protests did not cease, Goebbels warned that \"the boycott will be resumed... until German Jewry has been annihilated\".\n\nThe Nazi boycott of Jewish businesses threatened by Goebbels occurred. Brownshirts of the SA were placed outside Jewish-owned department stores, retail establishments and professional offices. The Star of David was painted in yellow and black on retail entrances and windows, and posters asserting \"Don't Buy from Jews!\" (\"Kauf nicht bei Juden!\") and \"The Jews Are Our Misfortune!\" (\"Die Juden sind unser Unglück!\") were pasted around. Physical violence against Jews and vandalism of Jewish-owned property took place, but the police intervened only rarely.\n\nThe Association of German National Jews, a marginal group that had supported Hitler in his early years, had fought against the Jewish boycott of German goods.\n\nThe Haavara Agreement, together with lessened dependence on trade with the West, had by 1937 largely negated the effects of the Jewish boycott on Germany. \n\nThe boycott (which lasted until the entrance of the United States into World War II) did nothing to stop the harassment of Jews in Germany. Rabbi Wise characterized the boycott as morally imperative expression, stating, \"We must speak out,\" and \"if that is unavailing, at least we shall have spoken.\"\n"}
{"id": "52141879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52141879", "title": "Antisemitism in the Olympic Games", "text": "Antisemitism in the Olympic Games\n\nThe modern Olympic Games or Olympics, are leading international sporting events featuring summer and winter sports competitions in which thousands of athletes from around the world participate in a variety of competitions. The Olympic Games are considered the world's foremost sports competition with more than 200 nations participating. The Olympic Games are held every four years, with the Summer and Winter Games alternating by occurring every four years but two years apart. In the Olympic Games during the years, although its approach of \"peace through sport\", there have been many expressions of antisemitism, and at least in 1972, which ended in the death of eleven Israeli athletes. Because Israel is the only Jewish state, most of the manifestations of antisemitism have taken anti-Israel forms.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1693139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1693139", "title": "Carbon credit", "text": "Carbon credit\n\nA carbon credit is a generic term for any tradable certificate or permit representing the right to emit one tonne of carbon dioxide or the mass of another greenhouse gas with a carbon dioxide equivalent (tCOe) equivalent to one tonne of carbon dioxide.\n\nCarbon credits and carbon markets are a component of national and international attempts to mitigate the growth in concentrations of greenhouse gases (GHGs). One carbon credit is equal to one tonne of carbon dioxide, or in some markets, carbon dioxide equivalent gases. Carbon trading is an application of an emissions trading approach. Greenhouse gas emissions are capped and then markets are used to allocate the emissions among the group of regulated sources.\n\nThe goal is to allow market mechanisms to drive industrial and commercial processes in the direction of low emissions or less carbon intensive approaches than those used when there is no cost to emitting carbon dioxide and other GHGs into the atmosphere. Since GHG mitigation projects generate credits, this approach can be used to finance carbon reduction schemes between trading partners and around the world.\n\nThere are also many companies that sell carbon credits to commercial and individual customers who are interested in lowering their carbon footprint on a voluntary basis. These carbon offsetters purchase the credits from an investment fund or a carbon development company that has aggregated the credits from individual projects. Buyers and sellers can also use an exchange platform to trade, which is like a stock exchange for carbon credits. The quality of the credits is based in part on the validation process and sophistication of the fund or development company that acted as the sponsor to the carbon project. This is reflected in their price; voluntary units typically have less value than the units sold through the rigorously validated Clean Development Mechanism.\n\nThe Collins English Dictionary defines a carbon credit as “\"a certificate showing that a government or company has paid to have a certain amount of carbon dioxide removed from the environment\"”.\nThe Environment Protection Authority of Victoria defines a carbon credit as a “\"generic term to assign a value to a reduction or offset of greenhouse gas emissions.. usually equivalent to one tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e).\"”\n\nThe Investopedia Inc investment dictionary defines a carbon credit as a “\"permit that allows the holder to emit one ton of carbon dioxide\"”..which “\"can be traded in the international market at their current market price\"”.\n\nThere are two main markets for carbon credits;\nCompliance Market credits\nSecondary / Verified Market credits (VERs) \n\nThe burning of fossil fuels is a major source of greenhouse gas emissions, especially for power, cement, steel, textile, fertilizer and many other industries which rely on fossil fuels (coal, electricity derived from coal, natural gas and oil). The major greenhouse gases emitted by these industries are carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), etc., all of which increase the atmosphere's ability to trap infrared energy and thus affect the climate.\n\nThe concept of carbon credits came into existence as a result of increasing awareness of the need for controlling emissions. The IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) has observed\nthat:\n\"Policies that provide a real or implicit price of carbon could create incentives for producers and consumers to significantly invest in low-GHG products, technologies and processes. Such policies could include economic instruments, government funding and regulation\",\n\nwhile noting that a tradable permit system is one of the policy instruments that has been shown to be environmentally effective in the industrial sector, as long as there are reasonable levels of predictability over the initial allocation mechanism and long-term price.\n\nThe mechanism was formalized in the Kyoto Protocol, an international agreement between more than 170 countries, and the market mechanisms were agreed through the subsequent Marrakesh Accords.\nThe mechanism adopted was similar to the successful US Acid Rain Program to reduce some industrial pollutants.\n\nUnder the Kyoto Protocol, the 'caps' or quotas for Greenhouse gases for the developed Annex 1 countries are known as Assigned Amounts and are listed in Annex B. The quantity of the initial assigned amount is denominated in individual units, called Assigned amount units (AAUs), each of which represents an allowance to emit one metric tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent, and these are entered into the country's national registry.\n\nIn turn, these countries set quotas on the emissions of installations run by local business and other organizations, generically termed 'operators'. Countries manage this through their national registries, which are required to be validated and monitored for compliance by the UNFCCC. Each operator has an allowance of credits, where each unit gives the owner the right to emit one metric tonne of carbon dioxide or other equivalent greenhouse gas. Operators that have not used up their quotas can sell their unused allowances as carbon credits, while businesses that are about to exceed their quotas can buy the extra allowances as credits, privately or on the open market.\nAs demand for energy grows over time, the total emissions must still stay within the cap, but it allows industry some flexibility and predictability in its planning to accommodate this.\n\nBy permitting allowances to be bought and sold, an operator can seek out the most cost-effective way of reducing its emissions, either by investing in 'cleaner' machinery and practices or by purchasing emissions from another operator who already has excess 'capacity'.\n\nSince 2005, the Kyoto mechanism has been adopted for CO trading by all the countries within the European Union under its European Trading Scheme (EU ETS) with the European Commission as its validating authority. From 2008, EU participants must link with the other developed countries who ratified Annex I of the protocol, and trade the six most significant anthropogenic greenhouse gases. In the United States, which has not ratified Kyoto, and Australia, whose ratification came into force in March 2008, similar schemes are being considered.\n\nA tradable credit can be an emissions allowance or an assigned amount unit which was originally allocated or auctioned by the national administrators of a Kyoto-compliant cap-and-trade scheme, or it can be an offset of emissions. Such offsetting and mitigating activities can occur in any developing country which has ratified the Kyoto Protocol, and has a national agreement in place to validate its carbon project through one of the UNFCCC's approved mechanisms. Once approved, these units are termed Certified Emission Reductions, or CERs. The Protocol allows these projects to be constructed and credited in advance of the Kyoto trading period.\n\nThe Kyoto Protocol provides for three mechanisms that enable countries or operators in developed countries to acquire greenhouse gas reduction credits\n\nThese carbon projects can be created by a national government or by an operator within the country.\nIn reality, most of the transactions are not performed by national governments directly, but by operators who have been set quotas by their country.\n\nFor trading purposes, one allowance or CER is considered equivalent to one metric ton of CO emissions. These allowances can be sold privately or in the international market at the prevailing market price. These trade and settle internationally and hence allow allowances to be transferred between countries. Each international transfer is validated by the UNFCCC. Each transfer of ownership within the European Union is additionally validated by the European Commission.\n\nClimate exchanges have been established to provide a spot market in allowances, as well as futures and options market to help discover a market price and maintain liquidity. Carbon prices are normally quoted in Euros per tonne of carbon dioxide or its equivalent (COe). Other greenhouse gasses can also be traded, but are quoted as standard multiples of carbon dioxide with respect to their global warming potential. These features reduce the quota's financial impact on business, while ensuring that the quotas are met at a national and international level.\n\nCurrently there are five exchanges trading in carbon allowances: the European Climate Exchange, NASDAQ OMX Commodities Europe, PowerNext, Commodity Exchange Bratislava and the European Energy Exchange. NASDAQ OMX Commodities Europe listed a contract to trade offsets generated by a CDM carbon project called Certified Emission Reductions (CERs). Many companies now engage in emissions abatement, offsetting, and sequestration programs to generate credits that can be sold on one of the exchanges. At least one private electronic market has been established in 2008: CantorCO2e. Carbon credits at Commodity Exchange Bratislava are traded at special platform - Carbon place.\n\nManaging emissions is one of the fastest-growing segments in financial services in the City of London with a market estimated to be worth about €30 billion in 2007. Louis Redshaw, head of environmental markets at Barclays Capital predicts that \"Carbon will be the world's biggest commodity market, and it could become the world's biggest market overall.\"\n\nUnchecked, energy use and hence emission levels are predicted to keep rising over time. Thus the number of companies needing to buy credits will increase, and the rules of supply and demand will push up the market price, encouraging more groups to undertake environmentally friendly activities that create carbon credits to sell.\nAn individual allowance, such as an Assigned amount unit (AAU) or its near-equivalent European Union Allowance (EUA), may have a different market value to an offset such as a CER. This is due to the lack of a developed secondary market for CERs, a lack of homogeneity between projects which causes difficulty in pricing, as well as questions due to the principle of supplementarity and its lifetime. Additionally, offsets generated by a carbon project under the Clean Development Mechanism are potentially limited in value because operators in the EU ETS are restricted as to what percentage of their allowance can be met through these flexible mechanisms.\n\nYale University economics professor William Nordhaus argues that the price of carbon needs to be high enough to motivate the changes in behavior and changes in economic production systems necessary to effectively limit emissions of greenhouse gases. \nRaising the price of carbon will achieve four goals. First, it will provide signals to consumers about what goods and services are high-carbon ones and should therefore be used more sparingly. Second, it will provide signals to producers about which inputs use more carbon (such as coal and oil) and which use less or none (such as natural gas or nuclear power), thereby inducing firms to substitute low-carbon inputs. Third, it will give market incentives for inventors and innovators to develop and introduce low-carbon products and processes that can replace the current generation of technologies. Fourth, and most important, a high carbon price will economize on the information that is required to do all three of these tasks. Through the market mechanism, a high carbon price will raise the price of products according to their carbon content. Ethical consumers today, hoping to minimize their “carbon footprint,” have little chance of making an accurate calculation of the relative carbon use in, say, driving 250 miles as compared with flying 250 miles. A harmonized carbon tax would raise the price of a good proportionately to exactly the amount of CO that is emitted in all the stages of production that are involved in producing that good. If 0.01 of a ton of carbon emissions results from the wheat growing and the milling and the trucking and the baking of a loaf of bread, then a tax of $30 per ton carbon will raise the price of bread by $0.30. The “carbon footprint” is automatically calculated by the price system. Consumers would still not know how much of the price is due to carbon emissions, but they could make their decisions confident that they are paying for the social cost of their carbon footprint.\nNordhaus has suggested, based on the social cost of carbon emissions, that an optimal price of carbon is around $30(US) per ton and will need to increase with inflation.\nThe social cost of carbon is the additional damage caused by an additional ton of carbon emissions. ... The optimal carbon price, or optimal carbon tax, is the market price (or carbon tax) on carbon emissions that balances the incremental costs of reducing carbon emissions with the incremental benefits of reducing climate damages. ... [I]f a country wished to impose a carbon tax of $30 per ton of carbon, this would involve a tax on gasoline of about 9 cents per gallon. Similarly, the tax on coal-generated electricity would be about 1 cent per kWh, or 10 percent of the current retail price. At current levels of carbon emissions in the United States, a tax of $30 per ton of carbon would generate $50 billion of revenue per year.\n\nCarbon credits create a market for reducing greenhouse emissions by giving a monetary value to the cost of polluting the air. Emissions become an internal cost of doing business and are visible on the balance sheet alongside raw materials and other liabilities or assets.\n\nFor example, consider a business that owns a factory putting out 100,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions in a year. Its government is an Annex I country that enacts a law to limit the emissions that the business can produce. So the factory is given a quota of say 80,000 tonnes per year. The factory either reduces its emissions to 80,000 tonnes or is required to purchase carbon credits to offset the excess. After costing up alternatives the business may decide that it is uneconomical or infeasible to invest in new machinery for that year. Instead it may choose to buy carbon credits on the open market from organizations that have been approved as being able to sell legitimate carbon credits.\n\nWe should consider the impact of manufacturing alternative energy sources. For example, the energy consumed and the Carbon emitted in the manufacture and transportation of a large wind turbine would prohibit a credit being issued for a predetermined period of time.\n\n\nCarbon credits and carbon taxes each have their advantages and disadvantages. Credits were chosen by the signatories to the Kyoto Protocol as an alternative to Carbon taxes. A criticism of tax-raising schemes is that they are frequently not hypothecated, and so some or all of the taxation raised by a government would be applied based on what the particular nation's government deems most fitting. However, some would argue that carbon trading is based around creating a lucrative artificial market, and, handled by free market enterprises as it is, carbon trading is not necessarily a focused or easily regulated solution.\n\nBy treating emissions as a market commodity some proponents insist it becomes easier for businesses to understand and manage their activities, while economists and traders can attempt to predict future pricing using market theories. Thus the main advantages of a tradeable carbon credit over a carbon tax are argued to be:\n\nThe advantages of a carbon tax are argued to be:\n\nThe principle of Supplementarity within the Kyoto Protocol means that internal abatement of emissions should take precedence before a country buys in carbon credits. However it also established the Clean Development Mechanism as a Flexible Mechanism by which capped entities could develop measurable and permanent emissions reductions voluntarily in sectors outside the cap. Many criticisms of carbon credits stem from the fact that establishing that an emission of CO-equivalent greenhouse gas has truly been reduced involves a complex process. This process has evolved as the concept of a carbon project has been refined over the past 10 years.\n\nThe first step in determining whether or not a carbon project has legitimately led to the reduction of measurable and permanent emissions is understanding the CDM methodology process. This is the process by which project sponsors submit, through a Designated Operational Entity (DOE), their concepts for emissions reduction creation. The CDM Executive Board, with the CDM Methodology Panel and their expert advisors, review each project and decide how and if they do indeed result in reductions that are additional\n\nIt is also important for any carbon credit (offset) to prove a concept called additionality. The concept of additionality addresses the question of whether the project would have happened in the absence of an intervention in the form of the price signal of carbon credits. Only projects with emissions below their baseline level, defined as emissions under a scenario without this price signal (holding all other factors constant), represent a net environmental benefit. Carbon projects that yield strong financial returns even in the absence of revenue from carbon credits; or that are compelled by regulations; or that represent common practice in an industry; are usually not considered additional. A full determination of additionality requires a careful investigation of proposed carbon offset projects.\n\nIt is generally agreed that voluntary carbon offset projects must demonstrate additionality to ensure the legitimacy of the environmental stewardship claims resulting from the retirement of carbon credits (offsets).\n\nThe Kyoto mechanism is the only internationally agreed mechanism for regulating carbon credit activities, and, crucially, includes checks for additionality and overall effectiveness. Its supporting organisation, the UNFCCC, is the only organisation with a global mandate on the overall effectiveness of emission control systems, although enforcement of decisions relies on national co-operation. The Kyoto trading period only applies for five years between 2008 and 2012. The first phase of the EU ETS system started before then, and is expected to continue in a third phase afterwards, and may co-ordinate with whatever is internationally agreed at but there is general uncertainty as to what will be agreed in Post–Kyoto Protocol negotiations on greenhouse gas emissions. As business investment often operates over decades, this adds risk and uncertainty to their plans. As several countries responsible for a large proportion of global emissions (notably USA, India, China) have avoided mandatory caps, this also means that businesses in capped countries may perceive themselves to be working at a competitive disadvantage against those in uncapped countries as they are now paying for their carbon costs directly.\n\nA key concept behind the cap and trade system is that national quotas should be chosen to represent genuine and meaningful reductions in national output of emissions. Not only does this ensure that overall emissions are reduced but also that the costs of emissions trading are carried fairly across all parties to the trading system. However, governments of capped countries may seek to unilaterally weaken their commitments, as evidenced by the 2006 and 2007 National Allocation Plans for several countries in the EU ETS, which were submitted late and then were initially rejected by the European Commission for being too lax.\n\nA question has been raised over the grandfathering of allowances. Countries within the EU ETS have granted their incumbent businesses most or all of their allowances for free. This can sometimes be perceived as a protectionist obstacle to new entrants into their markets. There have also been accusations of power generators getting a 'windfall' profit by passing on these emissions 'charges' to their customers. As the EU ETS moves into its second phase and joins up with Kyoto, it seems likely that these problems will be reduced as more allowances will be auctioned. \n\nSome sources shows that UK financial service wins a lot from Carbon credit trade. The profit is evident if one check the statistics: London has \nsecured dominance on the global carbon trading market, with net value $64bn in 2007, according to the report by International Financial Services London. London controlled about 90% of the exchange market (Carbon credit vs money) in 2007. London-based companies made about 59% of the purchases of Carbon credits issued by the UN. And some of the Carbon credit's system creators are from UK, for example, the economist, former Senior Vice-President of the World Bank and government economic advisor in the United Kingdom Nicholas Stern, Baron Stern of Brentford who has founded a consultancy-trading agency \"The Carbon Rating Agency (CRA)\" on the Isle-of-Man (controlled by firm IDEAglobal Group there Stern was a Vice Chairman at that time ) for Carbon credit evaluation and firm's rating and making money on that. \n\n"}
{"id": "23599296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23599296", "title": "Counter-cyclical payment", "text": "Counter-cyclical payment\n\nCounter-cyclical payment (CCP) — Under the Direct and Counter-cyclical Program (DCP) created by the 2002 farm bill (P.L. 101-171, Sec. 1101-1108), counter-cyclical payments are made to participating producers when the marketing year average price received by farmers for a covered commodity is less than the target price. The total payment to a producer is the payment acres (85% of base acres) times the payment rate (target price minus average market price, except not more than the difference between the target price and the sum of the national loan rate and the direct payment rate). \n"}
{"id": "45468148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45468148", "title": "Crusader Kings II: Sons of Abraham", "text": "Crusader Kings II: Sons of Abraham\n\nCrusader Kings II: Sons of Abraham is an downloadable content pack developed by Paradox Development Studio and published by Paradox Interactive for the grand strategy wargame \"Crusader Kings II\". The expansion pack created more events and interactions with the Christian, Islamic and Jewish religions within the game. There were concerns by the production staff that elements included such as the ability to expel Jews from the player-held lands and the ability to create the Kingdom of Israel could lead to criticism. Game critics were mostly positive of the game, with praise directed at the new gameplay elements introduced.\n\nThe \"Sons of Abraham\" expansion increased the events and interactions with religion in \"Crusader Kings 2\". While the previous expansion pack to the game, entitled \"The Old Gods\", was primarily about paganism, \"Sons of Abraham\" was intended to expand on Judaism, Islam and Christianity. For example, the Catholic religion is expanded by introducing the College of Cardinals, thereby increasing the interaction between the player's ruler character and the reigning Pope. It allows the Pope to choose who is admitted to become one of the nine standing Cardinals based on a number of attributes, with a preference for members of the Italian culture. Jewish characters are playable for the first time and allows the player to restore the Kingdom of Israel, build the Third Temple and bring back the Priesthood. Meanwhile, Islamic characters can choose to become members of the Mu`tazila or Ash'ari theologies, with penalties being suffered towards members of the other theology.\n\nThe expansion modifies the economy in \"Crusader Kings II\" to require greater financial upkeep. This is balanced by the ability to borrow money from either a number of holy military orders or Jewish lenders. As with the real-world Alhambra Decree, in which the joint Catholic Monarchs of Spain, Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon, the game allows the player to expel the Jewish population from their held lands. This will remove all Jewish characters, default on any debts owed to Jewish money lenders, and prevent the player from borrowing any further money from those Jewish lenders in the future.\n\nReligious heresies have been expanded to receive individual powers other than those held by the main religion in each case. For example, Catharism allows its followers to appoint women as bishops. Also, once a heresy increases in power sufficient to outnumber the orthodoxy, then the former orthodoxy becomes the heresy and vice versa. When this happens, any holy military orders which previously followed the old orthodox religion will switch to follow the former heresy. Those holy orders can also gain lands of their own, and may build castles in empty provinces in other territories.\n\nThe expansion pack was announced via Paradox Interactive's twitch.tv stream at 6pm GMT on October 22, 2013. It is the fifth major expansion pack for the game. The lead designer on \"Sons of Abraham\" was Henrik Fåhraeus, who said that the production team were careful about how they introduced interactions with the Jewish faith. He explained that while elements of the game were already dark, but \"you do some things that you can’t do in other games, so we felt that it could be done.\" Regarding the ability to expel the Jewish population, Fåhraeus said that the mechanic was designed to hurt the player in the long run.\n\nThe ability to play as a Jewish character was not previously available in the game as the production team didn't consider that there were any significant Jewish rulers from 1066 onwards, but with the earlier setting beginning in \"The Old Gods\", the Khazar Khanate was changed from following Tengrism to Judaism. This reflects the historical record of the 8th century. Fåhraeus did not fear any backlash to the inclusion of the reformation of the Kingdom of Israel, and compared it to earlier expansions where the player could reform the Roman Empire as the Byzantines or Zoroastrian characters reforming the Persian Empire.\n\n\"Crusader Kings II: Sons of Abraham\" was released as downloadable content on November 18, 2013. It was brought out a week after a patch for the main game and alongside three minor downloadable content packs. The review aggregator websites GameRankings and Metacritic gave the expansion scores of 72% and 77% respectively.\n\nWhile writing for IGN in Italy, Di Claudio Chianese described \"Sons of Abraham\" as building on the solid foundation formed by the original game. But he felt like it didn't go far enough in the expansion of the religions, and missed out on the chance to play as the Pope. But he felt that it would be well received by experienced gamers of \"Crusader Kings II\".\n\nLuke Plunkett, in a preview piece for Kotaku, described Paradox Interactive as having \"brass balls\" due to the inclusion of Israel within the game. A review of the expansion by \"Edge\" magazine likened the experience of trying to rule as the Jewish Khazars as repetitive as the main character from the film \"Groundhog Day\" trying to save an old man. This is because in their experience, playing as Isaac of the Khazars often ended with the character dying after a few years without issue, ending the game quickly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "297681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297681", "title": "Curfew", "text": "Curfew\n\nA curfew is an order specifying a time during which certain regulations apply. Typically it refers to the time when individuals are required to return to and stay in their homes. Such an order may be issued by public authorities but also by the head of a household to those living in the household. For instance, an au pair is typically given a curfew, which regulates when they must return to the host family's home in the evening.\n\nThe word \"curfew\" comes from the French phrase \"couvre-feu\", which means \"fire cover\". It was later adopted into Middle English as \"curfeu\", which later became the modern \"curfew\". Its original meaning refers to a law made by William The Conqueror that all lights and fires should be covered at the ringing of an eight o'clock bell to prevent the spread of destructive fire within communities in timber buildings.\n\n\nOn 28 January 2011, and following the collapse of the police system, President Hosni Mubarak declared a country-wide military enforced curfew. However, it was ignored by demonstrators who continued their sit-in in Tahrir Square. Concerned residents formed neighborhood vigilante groups to defend their communities against looters and the newly escaped prisoners.\n\nOn the second anniversary of the revolution, January 2013, a wave of demonstrations swept the country against President Mohamed Morsi who declared a curfew in Port Said, Ismaïlia, and Suez, three cities where deadly street clashes had occurred. In defiance, the locals took to the streets during the curfew, organizing football tournaments and street festivals, prohibiting police and military forces from enforcing the curfew.\n\nUnder Iceland's Child Protection Act (no. 80/2002 Art. 92), children aged 12 and under may not be outdoors after 20:00 (8:00 p.m.) unless accompanied by an adult. Children aged 13 to 16 may not be outdoors after 22:00 (10:00 p.m.), unless on their way home from a recognized event organized by a school, sports organization or youth club. During the period 1 May to 1 September, children may be outdoors for two hours longer.\n\nChildren and teenagers that break curfew are taken to the local police station and police officers inform their parents to get them. The age limits stated here shall be based upon year of birth, not date of birth. If a parent cannot be reached, the child or teenager is taken to a shelter.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, the Sri Lanka Police are empowered to declare and enforce a \"Police Curfew\" in any police area for any particular period to maintain the peace, law and order. Under the emergency regulations of the \"Public Security Ordinance\", the President may declare a curfew over the whole or over any part of the country. Travel is restricted, during a curfew, to authorised persons such as police, armed forces personal and public officers. Civilians may gain a Curfew Pass from a police station to travel during a curfew.\n\nThe United Kingdom's 2003 Anti-Social Behaviour Act created zones that allow police from 9 PM to 6 AM to hold and escort home unaccompanied minors under the age of 16, whether badly behaved or not. Although hailed as a success, the High Court ruled in one particular case that the law did not give the police a power of arrest, and officers could not force someone to come with them. On appeal the court of appeal held that the act gave police powers to escort minors home only if they are involved in, or at risk from, actual or imminently anticipated bad behaviour.\n\nIn a few towns in the United Kingdom, the curfew bell is still rung as a continuation of the medieval tradition where the bell used to be rung from the parish church to guide travelers safely towards a town or village as darkness fell, or when bad weather made it difficult to follow trackways and for the villagers to extinguish their lights and fires as a safety measure to combat accidental fires. Until 1100 it was against the law to burn any lights after the ringing of the curfew bell. In Morpeth, the curfew is rung each night at 8pm from Morpeth Clock Tower. In Chertsey, it is rung at 8pm, from Michaelmas to Lady Day. A short story concerning the Chertsey curfew, set in 1471, and entitled \"Blanche Heriot. A legend of old Chertsey Church\" was published by Albert Richard Smith in 1843, and formed a basis for the poem \"Curfew Must Not Ring Tonight\". At Castleton in the Peak District, the curfew is rung from Michaelmas to Shrove Tuesday. At Wallingford in Oxfordshire, the curfew bell continues to be rung at 9pm rather than 8pm which is a one-hour extension granted by William The Conqueror as the Lord of the town was a Norman sympathiser. However, none of these curfew bells serve their original function.\n\nCurfew law in the United States is usually a matter of local ordinance (mainly applied by a municipality or county), rather than federal law. However, the Constitution guarantees certain rights, which have been applied to the states through the 14th Amendment. Hence, any curfew law may be overruled and struck down if, for example, it violates a juvenile's 1st, 4th, 5th or 14th Amendment rights.\nNonetheless, curfews are set by state and local governments. They vary by state and even by county or municipality. In some cities there are curfews for persons under the age of 18. American military curfews are a tool used by commanders at various installations to shape the behavior of soldiers.\n\nThe stated purpose of such laws is generally to deter disorderly behavior and crime, while others can include to protect youth from victimization and to strengthen parental responsibility but their effectiveness is subject to debate. Generally, curfews attempt to address vandalism, shootings, and property crimes, which are believed to happen mostly at night, but are less commonly used to address underage drinking, drunk driving and teenage pregnancy. Parents can be fined, charged or ordered to take parenting classes for willingly, or through insufficient control or supervision, permitting the child to violate the curfew. Many local curfew laws were enacted in the 1950s and 1960s to attack the \"juvenile delinquent\" problem of youth gangs. Most curfew exceptions include:\nSome cities make it illegal for a business owner, operator, or any employee to knowingly allow a minor to remain in the establishment during curfew hours. A business owner, operator, or any employee may be also subject to fines.\n\nA 2011 UC-Berkeley study looked at the 54 larger U.S. cities that enacted youth curfews between 1985 and 2002 and found that arrests of youths affected by curfew restrictions dropped almost 15% in the first year and approximately 10% in following years. However, not all studies agree with the conclusion that youth curfew laws actually reduce crime, and many studies find no benefit or sometimes even the opposite. For example, one 2016 systematic review of 12 studies on the matter found that the effect on crime is close to zero, and can perhaps even backfire somewhat.\n\nThere are also concerns about racial profiling. In response to concerns about racial profiling, Montgomery County, Maryland passed a limited curfew, which would permit police officers to arrest juveniles in situations that appear threatening.\n\nMany malls in the United States have policies that prohibit minors under a specified age from entering the mall after specified times, unless they are accompanied by a parent or another adult or are working at the mall during curfew times. Such policies are known as \"mall curfews.\" Malls that have policies prohibiting unaccompanied minors at any time are known as \"parental escort policies.\"\n\nStates and municipalities in the United States have occasionally enacted curfews on the population at large, often as a result of severely inclement weather or political unrest. Some such curfews require all citizens simply to refrain from driving. Others require all citizens to remain inside, with exceptions granted to those in important positions, such as elected officials, law enforcement personnel, first responders, health care workers, and the mass media.\n\nIn 2015, the city of Baltimore enacted a curfew on all citizens that lasted for five days and prohibited all citizens from going outdoors from 10 pm to 5 am with the exception of those traveling to or from work and those with medical emergencies. This was in response to the 2015 Baltimore protests.\n\nHowever, unlike juvenile curfews, all-ages curfews have always been very limited in terms of both location and duration. That is, they are temporary and restricted to very specific areas, and generally only implemented during states of emergency, then subsequently lifted or allowed to sunset.\n\nCurfew laws do not exist in New Zealand and therefore cannot be legally enforced by Police.\n\n\nPeople\n\n"}
{"id": "51354323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51354323", "title": "Dakar Conference", "text": "Dakar Conference\n\nThe Dakar Conference (also known as the Dakar Dialogue and the Dakar Initiative) was a historic conference between members of the Institute for Democratic Alternatives in South Africa (IDASA) and the African National Congress (ANC). It was held in Dakar, Senegal between 9 and 12 July 1987. The conference discussed topics such as strategies for bringing fundamental change in South Africa, national unity, structures of the government and the future of the economy in a free South Africa. The IDASA delegation from South Africa, participated in the conference in their private capacity and would later be condemned by the South African government for meeting a banned organization. The future indirect result of the conference was South African government talks with Nelson Mandela and his eventual meeting with P. W. Botha in 1989.\n\nFrederik van Zyl Slabbert, a member of the opposition resigned from the Progressive Federal Party and the South African parliament in January 1986, describing it as irrelevant and that he would explore other avenues of negotiations between white and black South African's. Dr. Alex Boraine would also leave with him. Van Zyl Slabbert and Boraine would the establish The Institute for Democratic Alternatives in South Africa (IDASA), a non-partisan organization that aimed to promote inclusive democracy in South Africa by talking to people of all races within and outside the country. Slabbert, in communication with Thabo Mbeki, member of the ANC National Executive, discussed the change in attitude amongst some of the Afrikaner elite towards Afrikaner Nationalism and Apartheid. Out of these discussions and meetings, an idea was generated for a possible meeting between them and the ANC. This would be a change from the opposition White liberals attempting to force political change from within the parliamentary system, to the Afrikaner elite taking direct action in shaping the future of direction of South Africa.\n\nLater in 1986, Slabbert and Breyten Breytenbach met on Gorée Island of Dakar in Senegal and decided that the city should be the location of the conference. The two then approached George Soros to help finance the conference, which he would do, but he was skeptical that the conference would achieve anything for South Africa. Breytenbach then approached Danielle Mitterrand, the French president's wife who headed the France-Libertés Foundation and who was well acquainted with Abdou Diouf, the Senegalese President, and asked her to intercede with him to allow the South African delegates to enter Senegal and ensure the security of the conference. The African Jurists' Association would also play a role in the conference's organisation. By 3 June 1987, more than a month before the start date, the South African press had caught wind of the proposed conference and published stories about a group of South Africans who were going to have a meeting with the ANC.\n\nThe IDASA delegation personally invited by Slabbert consisted of 61 delegates with at least half consisting of Afrikaner academics, teachers, journalists, artists, directors, writers and professionals and the group had Afrikaans speaking Coloureds, ten English-speaking businessmen and academics and three South African based German academics. The South African delegation attended in their private capacity and did not represent the organisations they worked for. The seventeen ANC delegates would be led by Thabo Mbeki in his capacity of ANC Director of Information and four other members of the ANCs National Executive Committee while the other twelve were made up of ANC members based in Zambia, Scandinavia, UK, Ireland, United States and West Africa.\n\nThe IDASA delegation flew into Dakar from London and were met at the airport by the Senegalese Head of Protocol in the VIP lounge and then escorted by motorcycle riders to their hotel where the conference would take place and were met there by the ANC delegation. During the conference, the delegates would attend receptions at Presidential Palace and the Minister of Educations residence. The conference began on 9 July and would end on 12 July.\n\nThe conference was opened by President Abdou Diouf and attended by his cabinet and members of the diplomatic community and then an address was given by Danielle Mitterrand. The delegates would then return to their hotel and the conference venue. Four major topics had been agreed upon and the delegates had submitted the papers prior to conference and had been viewed by the ANC and they would respond to them after their presentation. The four major topics included, strategies for bringing fundamental change in South Africa, national unity, structures of the government and the future of the economy in a free South Africa. Informal topics were also discussed and included the armed struggle, violence, negotiations, political pluralism, a Bill of Rights, future of Afrikaans and its culture, a future economy, distributive justice and other topics.\n\nThe delegates in their presentation expressed their concern about violence in South Africa and its impact on civilians while the ANC members outlined why they had begun an armed struggle when all other peaceful strategies to bring about racial policy change in South Africa had failed and that attacks on soft targets was not a policy and that control over its armed cadres in the country was not always possible. It was clear to the delegates during the discussions that the ANC was prepared to negotiate with the government but that certain preconditions would have to be met which included the release of political prisoners and the unbanning of banned organisation's in the country.\n\nWith regards to pluralism, the ANC expressed a commitment of political pluralism in a new South African political system and that racism and fascism would be outlawed in the political system. It expressed a belief that the groups committed to the ending of Apartheid would in a new South Africa political system would split into its own organizations expressing their own ideas and beliefs.\n\nThe ANC in the discussion concerning a Bill of Rights said it did not have a problem with it but would not guarantee privileges in such a bill. It expressed a reassurance that the Afrikaans language would be safeguarded as well as its cultural identity and that all people's cultural heritages should be protected.\n\nConcerning the future South African economy the ANC's policies were still governed by the Freedom Charter and that some form of nationalization would be required to redress the economic and wealth imbalances and that any nationalization would not occur instantly and consultation would take place between business and the future government. Health housing and education were key areas that the ANC would be readdressing.\n\nAt the conclusion of the conference, a declaration was released by the participants stating that a negotiated settlement in South Africa was preferred and that main obstacle was the South African government's unwillingness to negotiate, and the delegates concern about the level of uncontrolled violence in the country. A ferry trip was then organized to the Gorée Island and they visited the Maison des Esclaves and its museum in remembrance to the Dutch slave trade in West Africa.\n\n\n\n\nAt the end of the conference, the two groups left Senegal on a visit to Burkina Faso and Ghana. Forty South African delegates would return on 21 July 1987 and were met at the airport by a hundred demonstrators from the Afrikaner Resistance Movement (\"Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging\") led by Eugene Terre Blanche. Posters would accuse the delegates of being traitors, communists and terrorists. No news conference was held by the delegates, having been banned by the police and they were escorted via a back entrance from Jan Smuts International Airport. Frederick Van Zyl Slabbert and Dr. Alex Boraine would return to South Africa on 31 July.\n\nThe ruling National Party condemned the talk, worried about the legitimacy the conference gave to the ANC and the government controlled South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) and Afrikaner newspapers were critical. English newspapers were said to be critical and lukewarm to the conference. Government officials would express their opinion privately that they thought the conference would hinder the government's own initiates.\n\nIn the end the conference had broken the ice and would make it acceptable for an Afrikaner government to negotiate in the future with the ANC as well as the ANC to understand the Afrikaner. Further meetings were held when South African businessmen met with the ANC, Stellenbosch University students would meet in Lusaka and IDASA would organize further meetings in Germany, United States, France, Zambia and Zimbabwe.\n"}
{"id": "529551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=529551", "title": "Deaf culture", "text": "Deaf culture\n\nDeaf culture is the set of social beliefs, behaviors, art, literary traditions, history, values, and shared institutions of communities that are influenced by deafness and which use sign languages as the main means of communication. When used as a cultural label especially within the culture, the word \"deaf\" is often written with a capital \"D\" and referred to as \"big D Deaf\" in speech and sign. When used as a label for the audiological condition, it is written with a lower case \"d\". Carl G. Croneberg coined the term of \"Deaf Culture\" and he was the first to discuss analogies between Deaf and hearing cultures in his appendices C/D of the 1965 Dictionary of American Sign Language.\n\nMembers of the Deaf community tend to view deafness as a difference in human experience rather than a disability or disease. Many members take pride in their Deaf identity. Deaf people, in the sense of a community or culture, can then be seen as a minority group, and therefore some who are a part of this community may feel misunderstood by those who don't know sign language. Another struggle that the Deaf community often faces is that educational institutions usually consist primarily of hearing people. Additionally, hearing family members may need to learn sign language in order for the deaf person to feel included and supported. Unlike some other cultures, a deaf person may join the community later in life, rather than needing to be born into it.\n\nThere are several perspectives on deaf people and Deaf culture that shape their treatment and role in society. From a medical standpoint, many encourage Deaf children to undergo surgery. Especially in the past, the medical perspective discouraged the use of sign language because they believed it would distract from development of auditory and speech skills. From a social standpoint, Deaf individuals are welcomed to participate in society in the same manner as any other individual. This view discourages the idea that those who are deaf or hard-of-hearing are sick and in need of a cure. The social view also encourages making accommodations for deaf people so that they can fully participate in society. Such accommodations include the use of interpreters or improved closed captioning systems. Many feel, however, that the social view fails to recognize the unique qualities of Deaf people and Deaf culture. They believe that this perspective asks Deaf people to fit and find their own way in a predominantly hearing society, instead of recognizing their own abilities and culture. Another perspective is referred to as the cultural-linguistic view. Supporters of Deaf Culture state that this perspective appropriately recognizes Deaf people as a minority culture in the world with their own language and social norms. This standpoint is believed to promote Deaf people's right to collective space within society to pass on their language and culture to future generations.\n\nBeing involved in the Deaf community and culturally identifying as Deaf has been shown to significantly contribute to positive self-esteem in Deaf individuals. The community can provide support, easy social interaction, and \"refuge from the grinding frustrations of the hearing world.\" Conversely, Deaf individuals who are not a part of the Deaf community are forced to conform to the hearing world, resulting in lower self-esteem. Stereotypes, lack of knowledge, and negative attitudes about Deafness cause widespread discrimination. This often leads to a lower education and economic status for deaf people.\nThe community may include hearing family members of deaf people and sign-language interpreters who identify with Deaf culture. It does not automatically include all people who are deaf or hard-of-hearing. As educator and American Sign Language interpreter Anna Mindess writes, \"it is not the extent of hearing loss that defines a member of the deaf community but the individual's own sense of identity and resultant actions.\" As with all social groups that a person chooses to belong to, a person is a member of the Deaf community if he/she \"identifies him/herself as a member of the Deaf community, and other members accept that person as a part of the community.\"\n\nDeaf culture is recognized under Article 30, Paragraph 4 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which states that \"Persons with disabilities shall be entitled, on an equal basis with others, to recognition and support of their specific cultural and linguistic identity, including sign languages and deaf culture.\"\n\nIn 1972, Professor James Woodward, co-director of the Centre for Sign Linguistics and Deaf Studies at the Chinese University of Hong Kong since 2004, proposed a distinction between deafness and the Deaf culture. He suggested using \"deaf\" (written with a lower case \"d\") to refer to the audiological condition of deafness, and \"Deaf\" (written with an upper case \"D\") to refer to Deaf culture.\n\nA U.S. state regulation from the Colorado Department of Human Services defines \"Deaf\" (uppercase) as \"A group of people, with varying hearing acuity, whose primary mode of communication is a visual language (predominantly American Sign Language (ASL) in the United States) and have a shared heritage and culture,\" and has a separate definition for \"deaf\" (lowercase).\n\nThis convention has been widely adopted within the culture and the scholarly literature in English, and to some extent in other languages. The two terms are also widely used to refer to distinct but partially overlapping groups of people: deaf people (those with significant hearing loss) vs. Deaf people (those who identify with Deaf culture and use a sign language as a primary means of communication). Not everyone makes this distinction, however; some point out that there are many ways to be \"deaf\" and a simple two-way distinction is too confining.\nIn Deaf culture, person-first language (i.e., \"Person who is deaf\", \"person who is hard of hearing\") has long been rejected since being culturally Deaf is seen as a source of positive identity and pride. Instead, Deaf culture uses Deaf-first language: \"Deaf person\" or \"hard-of-hearing person\". Capital D -Deaf is as stated prior, is referred to as a student who first identifies as that. Lower case d- deaf is where a person has hearing loss. Typically, those that consider themselves Deaf, first and foremost prior to any other identity.\n\nHearing people may use the term \"hearing-impaired\", perhaps thinking it is more polite than \"deaf\", but Deaf people tend to reject it, for a variety of reasons. It is more likely to be used for people with a mild or moderate hearing loss or for people who have acquired deafness in adulthood rather than by those who have grown up Deaf. By contrast, those who identify with the Deaf culture movement typically reject the label hearing-\"impaired\" and other labels that imply that deafness is a pathological condition, viewing it instead as a focus of pride. Further, the term focuses entirely on the physical condition of deafness, while ignoring the linguistic and cultural distinction between those who sign and identify with Deaf culture, and those who do not.\n\nThe term \"hard of hearing\" is preferred over \"hearing-impaired\" within the American Deaf community and accepted as a neutral term without negative or pathological connotations, with no implication about age of onset. It generally refers to people who depend primarily on a spoken language for communication or who have mild or moderate hearing loss. An ASL term exists and is roughly equivalent to the English term\n\nVarious terms once used to refer to the deaf are no longer used and may be viewed either as out-of-date, or an insult, such as deaf-mute, or deaf and dumb. Formerly these terms were neutral, or at least, accepted, as can be seen by nicknames such as baseball player Dummy Hoy, or the former names of educational institutions, since renamed, such as Pennsylvania School for the Deaf (formerly Pennsylvania Institute for the Deaf and Dumb), Gallaudet University (formerly National Deaf-Mute College).\n\nDeaf-mute is a literal translation of the French \"sourd-muet\" which was already in use in France in the 19th century, in the works of the founder of the deaf school in Paris, as well as in the name of the school, the \"Institution Nationale des Sourds-Muets à Paris\". Since some Deaf people can also speak, the term \"deaf-mute\" is not accurate. The word \"dumb\" had meant \"speechless\" for centuries in English, before it gained the sense of \"stupid\" as a secondary meaning in the 19th century, but since \"stupid\" has now become the primary meaning, even though the term is still widely understood in the secondary meaning in the particular expression, the term is now unsuitable to refer to Deaf people.\n\nHistorically, Deaf culture has often been acquired within schools for Deaf students and within Deaf social clubs, both of which unite deaf people into communities with which they can identify. Becoming Deaf culturally can occur at different times for different people, depending on the circumstances of one's life. A small proportion of deaf individuals acquire sign language and Deaf culture in infancy from Deaf parents, others acquire it through attendance at schools, and yet others may not be exposed to sign language and Deaf culture until college or a time after that.\n\nAlthough up to fifty percent of deafness has genetic causes, fewer than five percent of deaf people have a deaf parent, so Deaf communities are unusual among cultural groups in that most members do not acquire their cultural identities from parents.\n\nEducator and ASL interpreter Anna Mindess notes that there is \"not just one homogeneous deaf culture\". There are many distinct Deaf communities around the world, which communicate using different sign languages and exhibit different cultural norms. Deaf identity also intersects with other kinds of cultural identity. Deaf culture intersects with nationality, education, race, ethnicity, gender, class, sexual orientation, and other identity markers, leading to a culture that is at once quite small and also tremendously diverse. The extent to which people identify primarily with their deaf identity rather than their membership in other intersecting cultural groups also varies. Mindess notes a 1989 study, which found that \"87 percent of black deaf people polled identified with their black culture first\".\n\nIn comparison to the general public, deaf people have lower levels of educational achievement. Advocates in deaf education believe that an improved recognition of American Sign Language (ASL) as an official language would improve education, as well as economic status. Some argue that by improving the recognition of ASL, better access to school materials, deaf teachers, interpreters, and video-telephone communication would take place. \n\nDeaf culture is prevalent in schools for the deaf. There are k-12 schools for the deaf throughout the world and the United States, however higher education specifically for the deaf is more limited.\n\nThree colleges within the United States that are often identified as the best providers of higher education for deaf people. Referred to often as the \"Big Three,\" these include California State University at Northridge (CSUN), National Technical Institute for the Deaf (part of Rochester Institute of Technology), and Gallaudet University. Gallaudet University is the first and only liberal-arts college for deaf students in the world.\n\nAlthough the United States leads in higher education opportunities for the deaf, there are colleges across the globe. In Australia, there is the Victorian College for the Deaf. Brazil has several institutions, including Instituto Santa Tersinha and Escola para Crianças Surdas Rio Branco. China's deaf universities include Beijing Union University, Special Education College of Beijing University, and Zhongzhou University. Other notable universities for the deaf across the globe include Finland School for the Deaf (Finland), Institut National de Jeunes Sourds de Paris (France), Berlin School for the Deaf (Germany), and Northwest Secondary School for the Deaf (South Africa.)\n\nMembers of Deaf cultures communicate via sign languages. There are over 200 distinct sign languages in the world. These include 114 sign languages listed in the Ethnologue database and 157 more sign languages, systems, and dialects. While the United Kingdom and the United States are both predominantly English speaking, the predominant signed languages used in these countries differ markedly. Due to the origins of deaf education in the United States, American Sign Language is most closely related to French Sign Language.\nSign language is just one part of deaf culture. Deaf identity is also constructed around specific beliefs, values and art.\n\n\n\n\nA strong tradition of poetry and storytelling exists in American Sign Language and other sign languages. Some prominent performers in the United States include Clayton Valli, Ben Bahan, Ella Mae Lentz, Manny Hernandez, C. J. Jones, Debbie Rennie, Patrick Graybill, Peter Cook, and many others. Their works are now increasingly available on video.\n\nCulturally Deaf people have also represented themselves in the dominant written languages of their nations.\n\nDeaf artists such as Betty G. Miller and Chuck Baird have produced visual artwork that conveys a Deaf worldview. Douglas Tilden was a famous Deaf sculptor who produced many different sculptures in his lifetime. Some Deaf artists belong to an art movement called De'VIA, which stands for Deaf View Image Art.\n\nOrganizations such as the Deaf Professional Arts Network or D-PAN are dedicated to promoting professional development and access to the entertainment, visual and media arts fields for individuals who are deaf or hard-of-hearing.\n\nDaily Moth was established by Alex Abenchuchan in 2017 to make the news accessible for Deaf ASL users. \n\nIn the United States, the Cobbs School, a deaf school in Virginia, was established in 1815. This school lasted only one and half years due to financial setbacks. American Deaf Community recounts the story of Laurent Clerc, a deaf educator, coming to the United States from France in 1817 to help found the first permanent school for deaf children in the country now named American School for the Deaf in Hartford, Connecticut. American School is the first official school for the deaf. \n\nAnother well-known event is the 1880 Second International Congress on Education of the Deaf in Milan, Italy, where hearing educators voted to embrace oral education and remove sign language from the classroom. This effort resulted in strong opposition within deaf cultures today to the oralist method of teaching deaf children to speak and lip read with limited or no use of sign language in the classroom. The method is intended to make it easier for Deaf children to integrate into hearing communities, but the benefits of learning in such an environment are disputed. The use of sign language is central to Deaf identity, and attempts to limit its use are viewed as an attack.\n\nDeaf culture revolves around such institutions as residential schools for deaf students, universities for deaf students (including Gallaudet University, South West Collegiate Institute for the Deaf, and the National Technical Institute for the Deaf), deaf clubs, deaf athletic leagues, communal homes (such as The Home for Aged and Infirm Deaf-Mutes, founded by Jane Middleton, in New York City), deaf social organizations (such as the Deaf Professional Happy Hour), deaf religious groups, deaf theaters, and an array of conferences and festivals, such as the Deaf Way II Conference and Festival and the World Federation of the Deaf conferences.\n\nDeaf clubs, popular in the 1940s and 1950s, were also an important part of deaf culture. During this time there were very few places that the deaf could call their own– places run by deaf people for deaf people. Deaf clubs were the solution to this need. Money was made by selling alcohol and hosting card games. Sometimes these ventures were so successful that the building used by the club was able to be purchased. However, the main attraction of these clubs was that they provided a place that deaf people could go to be around other deaf people, sometimes sharing stories, hosting parties, comedians, and plays. Many of today's common ABC stories were first seen at deaf clubs. The clubs were found in all of the major cities, New York City being home to at least 12. These clubs were an important break from their usually solitary day spent at factory jobs.\n\nIn the 1960s, deaf clubs began their quick and drastic decline. Today there are only a few spread-out deaf clubs found in the United States and their attendance is commonly small with a tendency to the elderly. This sudden decline is often attributed to the rise of technology like the TTY and closed captioning for personal TVs. With other options available for entertainment and communication, the need for deaf clubs grew smaller. It was no longer the only option for getting in touch with other members of the deaf community.\n\nHowever, others attribute the decline of deaf clubs to the end of World War II and a change in the job market. During WWII there was high demand for factory laborers and a promise of high pay. Many deaf Americans left their homes to move to bigger cities with the hope of obtaining a factory job. This huge influx of workers into new cities created the need for deaf clubs. When World War II ended and the civil rights movement progressed, the federal government started offering more jobs to deaf men and women. People began switching from manufacturing jobs to service jobs, moving away from solitary work with set hours. Today, deaf clubs are rare, but deaf advocacy centers and other deaf organizations have become widespread and popular.\n\nThe National Black Deaf Advocates was established in 1982 \"to promote the leadership development, economic and educational opportunities, social equality, and to safeguard the general health and welfare of Black deaf and hard-of-hearing people.\"\n\nThe Rainbow Alliance of the Deaf is a nonprofit established in 1977 to, \"establish and maintain a society of Deaf GLBT to encourage and promote the educational, economical, and social welfare; to foster fellowship; to defend our rights; and advance our interests as Deaf GLBT citizens concerning social justice; to build up an organization in which all worthy members may participate in the discussion of practical problems and solutions related to their social welfare. RAD has over twenty chapters in the United States and Canada.\" There is also the American deaf resource center Deaf Queer Resource Center (DQRC), the Hong Kong Bauhinias Deaf Club, and the Greenbow LGBT Society of Ireland.\n\nThere are deaf churches (where sign language is the main language), deaf synagogues, deaf Jewish community centers, and the Hebrew Seminary of the Deaf in Illinois. In 2011 the Conservative Movement unanimously passed the rabbinic responsa, \"The Status of the Heresh [one who is deaf] and of Sign Language,\" by the Committee on Jewish Law and Standards (CJLS). This responsa declared that, among other things, \"The Committee on Jewish Law and Standards rules that the deaf who communicate via sign language and do not speak are no longer to be considered mentally incapacitated. Jews who are deaf are responsible for observing mitzvot. Our communities, synagogues, schools, and camps must strive to be welcoming and accessible, and inclusive. Sign language may be used in matters of personal status and may be used in rituals. A deaf person called to the Torah who does not speak may recite the berakhot via sign language. A deaf person may serve as a shaliah tzibbur in sign language in a minyan whose medium of communication is sign language.\"\n\nThere are 15 chapters of Deaf Women United throughout the United States; its mission is, \"to promote the lives of Deaf women through empowerment, enrichment, and networking.\" There is also Pink Wings of Hope, an American breast cancer support group for deaf and hard-of-hearing women.\n\nDeaf people at the library have the same needs as other library patrons, but they often have more difficulty accessing materials and services. Over the last few decades, libraries in the United States have begun to implement services and collections for Deaf patrons and are working harder every year to make more of their collections, services, their communities, and even the world more accessible. \n\nThe American Library Association considers disabled people, including the Deaf, as a minority that is often overlooked by library staff. However, in the last few decades, libraries across the United States have made improvements in library accessibility in general and to the Deaf community specifically.\n\nOne of the first activists in the library community working toward accessibility for the Deaf was Alice Hagemeyer. When disabled communities began demanding equality in the 1970s, Hagemeyer decided to go back to school for her master's degree in library science. While she was studying there, she realized that there was not very much information about the Deaf community at her library or at the libraries of any of her classmates. She soon became an activist for Deaf awareness at her library, and she became the first \"Librarian for the Deaf Community\" from any public library in the nation. Hagemeyer also constructed a manual of resources for Deaf people and those associated with them called The Red Notebook. This notebook is now an online resource, which is available at the website of the Friends of Libraries for Deaf Action. Hagemeyer was one of the first library activists to make strides for the Deaf community.\n\nAustralian librarian Karen McQuigg states that \"even ten years ago, when I was involved in a project looking at what public libraries could offer the deaf, it seemed as if the gap between the requirements of this group and what public libraries could offer was too great for public libraries to be able to serve them effectively.\" There was a dearth of information for or about the Deaf community available in libraries across the nation and around the globe.\n\nNew guidelines from library organizations such as International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) and the ALA were written in order to help libraries make their information more accessible to people with disabilities, and in some cases, specifically the Deaf community. IFLA's \"Guidelines for Library Services to Deaf People\" is one such set of guidelines, and it was published to inform libraries of the services that should be provided for Deaf patrons. Most of the guidelines pertain to ensuring that Deaf patrons have equal access to all available library services. Other guidelines include training library staff to provide services for the Deaf community, availability of text telephones or TTYs not only to assist patrons with reference questions but also for making outside calls, using the most recent technology in order to communicate more effectively with Deaf patrons, including closed captioning services for any television services, and developing a collection that would interest the members of the Deaf community.\n\nOver the years, library services have begun to evolve in order to accommodate the needs and desires of local Deaf communities. At the Queens Borough Public Library (QBPL) in New York, the staff implemented new and innovative ideas in order to involve the community and library staff with the Deaf people in their community. The QBPL hired a deaf librarian, Lori Stambler, to train the library staff about Deaf culture, to teach sign language classes for family members and people who are involved with deaf people, and to teach literacy classes for Deaf patrons. In working with the library, Stambler was able to help the community reach out to its deaf neighbors, and helped other deaf people become more active in their outside community.\n\nThe library at Gallaudet University, the only Deaf liberal arts university in the United States, was founded in 1876. The library's collection has grown from a small number of reference books to the world's largest collection of deaf-related materials with over 234,000 books and thousands of other materials in different formats. The collection is so large that the library had to create a hybrid classification system based on the Dewey Decimal Classification System in order to make cataloging and location within the library much easier for both library staff and users. The library also houses the university's archives, which holds some of the oldest deaf-related books and documents in the world.\n\nIn Nashville, Tennessee, Sandy Cohen manages the Library Services for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing (LSDHH). The program was created in 1979 in response to information accessibility issues for the Deaf in the Nashville area. Originally, the only service provided was the news via a teletypewriter or TTY, but today, the program has expanded to serving the entire state of Tennessee by providing all different types of information and material on deafness, Deaf culture, and information for family members of Deaf people, as well as a historical and reference collection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5898379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5898379", "title": "Defensive democracy", "text": "Defensive democracy\n\nDefensive democracy is the philosophy that members of a democratic society believe it necessary to limit some rights and freedoms, in order to protect the institutions of the democracy.\n\nIsrael implemented the principle of defensive democracy, the (Section 7A) which determined that \"candidate lists would not participate in elections if its goals or actions, expressly or by implication, would deny the existence of the state of Israel as a Jewish state or deny the democratic character of the state of Israel.\"\n\nVarious political science researchers have perceived Israel as a democracy defending itself mainly from social and security constraints with which the state of Israel has been dealing since its creation. During the first three decades of its existence, the state of Israel was completely surrounded by countries that did not recognize Israel's existence as legitimate. Through the years, concerns have been raised from within the Jewish majority in Israel that the Arab minority within the country, who consider themselves part of the Arab world, would cooperate with the neighboring countries in their struggle against Israel. This situation has often raised the issue of a self-defensive democracy on the agenda in Israel.\n\nDuring the 1980s, the issue was heavily discussed in a different context – for the first time in Israel's history, an extreme right-wing Jewish party (the Kach Party), who rejected the state's democratic character and the rights of the Arab minority within the country, won representation to the Israeli parliament in the 1984 elections to the Knesset. As a result, Israel's Supreme Court outlawed the party and did not allow it to run again in the 1988 elections on the basis that the party advocates racism.\n\nTen countries in Europe have outlawed Holocaust denial: France (Loi Gayssot), Belgium (Belgian Holocaust denial law), Switzerland (article 261bis of the Penal Code), Germany (§ 130 (3) of the penal code), Austria (article 3h Verbotsgesetz 1947), Romania, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, and Poland (article 55 of the law creating the Institute of National Remembrance 1998).\n\nGermany maintains a domestic intelligence service, the Verfassungsschutz, whose main purpose is to investigate parties which may violate the constitutional bans on working to end the democratic nature of the state (in particular far-right and Communist parties).\n\nLearning from legislation of West Germany, National Assembly of Second Republic inserted Defensive Democracy in their Constitution in 1960. After that, Now in Sixth Republic, it remains in Constitution (§8(4) — esp. defensive democracy to prevent illegal parties) and has some procedures in other laws. The Constitutional Court of Korea is in charge of deciding if a party is illegal and therefore should be dissolved.\n\nFor the first time since the Constitutional Court of Korea was created, on November 2013, the Justice Ministry of Korea petitioned the Constitutional Court to dissolve the Unified Progressive Party, citing its pro-North Korean activities (see 2013 South Korean sabotage plot). On 19 December 2014, the Court ruled 8-1 that the Unified Progressive Party be dissolved. This ruling was quite controversial in South Korea.\n\nThe Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of China clearly states that any political party whose purpose or behaviour threatens the existence of the Republic of China or constitutional order of liberal democracy is unconstitutional, and the Constitutional Court can dissolve it.\n\n"}
{"id": "1074931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1074931", "title": "Federation of Damanhur", "text": "Federation of Damanhur\n\nThe Federation of Damanhur, often called simply Damanhur, is a commune, ecovillage, and spiritual community situated in the Piedmont region of northern Italy about north of the city of Turin. It is located in the foothills of the Alps in the Chiusella Valley, bordering on the Gran Paradiso National Park. The community has its own constitution and currency, the \"Credito\".\n\nDamanhur is named after the Egyptian city of Damanhur which was the site of a temple dedicated to Horus.\n\nIt was founded in 1975 by Oberto Airaudi with around 24 followers, and by 2000 the number had grown to 800. The group holds a mix of New Age and neopagan beliefs. They gained fame in 1992 through the disclosure of their secret excavation of an extensive underground temple, the Temples of Humankind, which was begun in 1978 under complete secrecy. The Italian authorities ordered construction work to stop because it had been constructed without planning approval, although artwork could continue. Retroactive permission was subsequently granted.\n\nDamanhur's supporters claim the growth and activity of the community has revitalized the local area.\n\nThe Federation of Damanhur has centers in Europe, America, and Japan.\n\nThe constitution began with 3 bodies of Damanhur: The School of Meditation (ritual tradition) Social (social theory, social realization) and The Game of Life (experimentation and dynamics, life as a game, change). A fourth body was recently added, Technarcate (individual inner refinement).\n\nCitizens participate in one of 4 levels, depending on their desired involvement: A, B, C, or D. Class A citizens share all resources and live on site full-time. Class B citizens contribute to financial goals and live on site a minimum of 3 days a week. Class C and D citizens live anywhere. (page 102, Merrifield, 2006) Class A & B citizens participate fully in The School of Meditation, Social, and the Game of Life. Class C citizens participate fully in The School of Meditation.\n\nCitizens participate in one of several ways, depending on their personal nature. Ways include the Way of the Oracle, the Way of the Monk, the Way of the Knight, the Way of Health, the Way of the Word, the Way of Art & Work, and many others. Most citizens live in houses of 10-20 people each, federated together into the Federation of Damanhur.\n\nMarriage works on a renewal basis, for a period of so many years before renewal. Conception is timed for auspicious birthdays of children.\n\nFrom 1983 onwards, members have assumed animal names (Sparrow, Prawn, Mole, etc).\n\n"}
{"id": "11400390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11400390", "title": "Fiscal-military state", "text": "Fiscal-military state\n\nA fiscal-military state is a state that bases its economic model on the sustainment of its armed forces, usually in times of prolonged or severe conflict. Characteristically, fiscal-military states will subject citizens to high taxation for this purpose.\n\nIn the past, states such as Spain, the Netherlands and Sweden, which were embroiled in long-lasting periods of war for local or global hegemony, were organized as fiscal-military states. The British East India Company also employed military fiscalism in maintenance of rule in India in the mid-18th century. Colonial powers generated their revenue for the maintenance of the army. Currently there are few states that could be described as fiscal-military states, which is probably due to the decline of large scale international conflicts in recent times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56550949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56550949", "title": "Higher Ground (Rasmussen song)", "text": "Higher Ground (Rasmussen song)\n\n\"Higher Ground\" is a song performed by Danish singer Rasmussen. The song was released as a digital download in Denmark on 11 February 2018, through Renegade Records. It represented Denmark in the Eurovision Song Contest 2018 in Lisbon, Portugal.\n\nOn 22 January 2018, Rasmussen was confirmed as one of the 10 participants in \"Dansk Melodi Grand Prix 2018\" with the song \"Higher Ground\". The 10 songs competed in the final, where the winner was determined over two rounds of voting. In the first round, the top 3 songs based on the combination of votes from a public vote and a five-member jury panel qualified to the super-final. In the super-final, the winner was determined as well by the combination of votes from the public and the jury panel. Rasmussen won the super-final with 50% of the vote.\n\nThe song competed in the second semi-final, held on 10 May 2018 in Lisbon, Portugal, and subsequently qualified for the final, held on 12 May 2018. In the final, the song received 38 points from jury vote and 188 points from televote for a combined score of 226 points and an overall 9th place.\n\nIn an interview, Rasmussen explains that the song is about trying to solve conflicts by peaceful means and refraining from the use of violence. Quote: \"That's why the song is also about being able to take a step back and solve conflicts in a different way than just thrusting a sword into the belly of someone, you are facing. So, it has a message of peace.\"In the same interview, Rasmussen explained that the song is inspired by the legend of Magnus Erlendsson, a late Viking age chieftain.\n"}
{"id": "25475999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25475999", "title": "Homeland Security Information Network", "text": "Homeland Security Information Network\n\nThe Homeland Security Information Network (HSIN) is a web-based platform, run by the Department of Homeland Security, which is designed to allow local, state, tribal, and federal government agencies to share \"Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU)\" information with each other over a secure channel.\n\nThe HSIN provides three main functional categories. First, it provides a SharePoint web portal system which allows agencies and events to have a basic workspace for collaboration. Second, it provides a Jabber chat system, with user managed rooms. Third, it provides the Common Operational Picture, a custom executive situational awareness web application based on Oracle HTML DB.\n\nThe Department of Homeland Security has publicly announced that the network has so far been hacked at least twice in 2009—once in March and once in April.\n\n"}
{"id": "26593168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26593168", "title": "Intergenerational policy", "text": "Intergenerational policy\n\nAn intergenerational policy is a public policy that incorporates an intergenerational approach to addressing an issue or has an impact across the generations. Approaching policy from an intergenerational perspective is based on an understanding of the interdependence and reciprocity that characterizes the relationship between the generations.\n\nAn intergenerational approach to public policy recognizes that generations share basic needs including adequate income, access to quality health care and social services, educational and employment opportunities, and a safe place to live. Furthermore, policies that are supportive of any age group must build on the common concerns of all generations.\n\nIntergenerational policy is also understood as current efforts on intergenerational justice, both by governmental and non-governmental institutions that distribute resources between the generations. There are two types of intergenerational policies: descriptive and programmatic. Descriptive intergenerational policy includes all efforts to institutionalize individual and collective relations between the generations in the private and public spheres. On the other hand, programmatic intergenerational policy refers to establishing societal conditions that allow the creation of private and public intergenerational relations in the present and future in a way that guarantees the development of a responsible and community-oriented personality on the one hand and of societal progress on the other.\n\nLiterature includes at least five models intergenerational policies. These are: (1) intergenerational social integration; (2) linking strategies of social policy towards old age and older adults (ageing policy); (3) dimensions of an intergenerational policy covering environmental policy, architectural policy, (inter)cultural policy, education policy, economic policy, labour market policy and healthcare policy; (4) United Nations’ “Society For All Ages“ concept; and (5) the European Union's concept of the “silver economy”.\n"}
{"id": "9547852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9547852", "title": "International Center for Law and Religion Studies", "text": "International Center for Law and Religion Studies\n\nThe International Center for Law and Religion Studies, part of J. Reuben Clark Law School at Brigham Young University, was formally founded on January 1, 2000, to promote freedom of religion worldwide and to study the relations between governments and religious organizations. The Center was built upon ongoing work of law professor W. Cole Durham, Jr., who was named the Center's Director.\n\nA main project of the Center is hosting an International Law and Religion Symposium for government, academic, and religious leaders and visitors. As of 2011, the 18th year of the Symposium, the event had hosted more than 850 delegates from some 120 countries.\n\nThe Center also maintains the website of the Strasbourg Consortium, dedicated to the work of the European Court of Human Rights pertaining to freedom of religion, conscience, or belief, as well as maintaining the database for the Religion and Law Consortium (\"Religlaw\"), a research forum for legal developments on international law and religion or belief topics.\n\nSince 2010, the \"International Center for Law and Religious Studies\", together with the J. Reuben Clark Law School at Brigham Young University, has been awarding the \"International Religious Liberty Award\" in recognition of outstanding contributions to the promotion and preservation of religious freedom.\n\nPast recipients of the \"International Religious Liberty Award\" include Joe Lieberman (2010), Kevin Hasson (2011), Douglas Laycock (2012), John Graz (2013), Frank Wolf (2014), Knox Thames, William E. Lori (2015), Katrina Lantos Swett (2016), and Elizabeth Berridge (2017).\n"}
{"id": "5283689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5283689", "title": "Khir Toyo", "text": "Khir Toyo\n\nDr. Mohamad Khir Bin Toyo (born 6 August 1965) was the former Dato' Menteri Besar (Chief Minister) of the state of Selangor in Malaysia from 2000 to 2008. His Barisan Nasional (BN) government was defeated in the 2008 general election, following which he served as the state's Opposition Leader until December 2010. He has been a member of the Selangor State Legislative Assembly since 1999, for the seat of Sungai Panjang. He faced charges of corruption after stepping down as Chief Minister, and was convicted of graft in the High Court on 23 December 2011.\n\nA ethnic Malay of half Javanese and half native Malay descent, Khir was born on 6 August 1965, at Tali Air 2, Bt 4, Sungai Burung, Tanjung Karang, Selangor, the fifth child of a total of nine siblings. His father, Toyo @ Joyo bin Erodikromo, was an immigrant from Java, Indonesia while his mother, Siti Aminah binti Mohd Taib, is of Malay ethnicity.\n\nHe married his first wife Zahrah Kechik in 1990, who was born at Matang Road, Taiping, Perak. They have one biological son (eldest) and adopted 3 daughters and 2 sons.\n\nKhir was married to his second wife Christine Tan @ Christine Zanitrah Zafeerah on August 2016.\n\nBefore entering politics, Khir was a dentist by profession.\n\nKhir was active in the youth wing of the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), serving on its executive council. In 2000, at the age of 35, he became the Menteri Besar of Selangor at the insistence of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, following the resignation of Abu Hassan Omar. His appointment as Menteri Besar came in his first term as a member of the Selangor State Assembly, having been elected as the member for Sungai Panjang in the 1999 election. His young age led to allegations, which he denied, that he had dyed his hair grey to give voters the impression that he was older.\n\nKhir subsequently served as a member of UMNO's Supreme Council and Chairman of Selangor Barisan Nasional from 2000 to 2008. In 2004, Dr. Mohamad Khir won UMNO Supreme Council with the highest votes. Other positions that he holds in UMNO include the Chairman of the Selangor UMNO Communications Board and UMNO Division Head of Sungai Besar.\n\nHe was the Menteri Besar of Selangor until the 12th General Election in March 2008. The state of Selangor fell to opposition hands following its worst defeat in Malaysian history. He was succeeded by Parti Keadilan Rakyat (PKR) secretary-general, Abdul Khalid Ibrahim. However, he remains the state assemblyman of Sungai Panjang constituency and became Selangor opposition chief. After the election, he ran for the leadership of UMNO Youth, but was defeated by Khairy Jamaluddin. He resigned as the opposition leader in December 2010, after he was charged with corruption over allegations that while he was the Menteri Besar, he was sold a lavish mansion for less than its market value.\n\nKhir Toyo was finally sentenced to a jail term of 12 months for this act and his properties was ordered to be confiscated.\n\nIt was a mission set by Khir Toyo himself to make Selangor 'zero squatters' in line with national policy Wawasan 2020. The opposition criticised Khir Toyo for approving housing project in squatters' area and forcing the residents to move out from their illegal homes. They claimed some of the village claim to be illegal homes had been built before independence in 1957 and most squatters living in a prime area are left homeless and received low compensation. The majority of the squatters are forced to rent or live in low-cost flats.\n\nHowever report show most of the land is under private owner. \"The (squatters) are occupying other people's land. The land will never be theirs as they are private land. They want the land but I can't give it to them\" – Dr. Khir Toyo\n\nDespite heavy criticism from opposition before this, the new Menteri Besar from opposition party, Tan Sri Abdul Khalid Ibrahim reported said the effort to reduce the number of squatters and to free them from the clutches of poverty, should continue.\n\nIn 2007, The state government had achieved 93.6 per cent success in addressing the squatter problem, having evicted 44,701 of the 47,756 squatter families to-date from all the local council areas in the state. The remaining squatters to be moved by August are 1,090 families from the Selayang Municipal Council (MPS) and 257 families from the Klang Municipal Council (MPK), the media secretariat in the Menteri Besar's Office said in a statement. A total of 1,708 squatter families were shifted following court cases, resettled to the North Gombak Orang Asli settlement and planned villages, it said. However, four local authorities still had squatters. They are MPS (984), MPK (221), Shah Alam City Council (307) and Ampang Jaya Municipal Council (196).\n\nKhir Toyo had been accused of corruption for approving a construction project which trespasses Bukit Cahaya Seri Alam in Shah Alam, a forest reserve. However this land was approved before Khir took over power. To prove his innocence, Khir had asked Anti-Corruption Agency of Malaysia to investigate the incident.. In 2004, Anti-Corruption Agency declared no case against Khir Toyo.\n\nOn 30 October, the current State government of Selangor began investigations into irregularities by the Selangor State Development Corporation when it was run by Khir Toyo. A special investigative team which was set up for the purpose would probe how certain senior officers of the corporation were holding 30% shares in a subsidiary. This included an investigation of RM100,000 gift to former Mentri Besar as a bonus. In 2007, the state government only collected RM17mil revenue from sand mining instead of the RM170mil which it was supposed to get.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42024643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42024643", "title": "LGBT history in Uganda", "text": "LGBT history in Uganda\n\nUganda has a long and, until relatively recently, quite permissive LGBT history. During precolonial times, the “mudoko dako,” or effeminate males among the Langi of northern Uganda were treated as women and could marry men. Religious roles for cross-dressing men (homosexual priests) were historically found among the Bunyoro people. The Teso people also acknowledged a category of men who dressed as women. \n\nIn Buganda, one of the largest traditional kingdoms in Uganda, certain forms of same-sex relations were institutionalised. Young men served in the royal courts and provided sexual services for visitors and elites. It was an open secret that Kabaka Mwanga II, who ruled in the latter half of the 19th century, was gay. Homosexuality in Uganda was criminalized in 1902. \n\nIn February 2014, president Yoweri Museveni signed a new law, the Uganda Anti-Homosexuality Act, which provided for tougher penalties for gay people including criminalizing people who did not report them. The new law also covered lesbians for the first time. However, on 1 August 2014, the Constitutional Court of Uganda ruled the new law invalid.\n"}
{"id": "8913257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8913257", "title": "Libertarian Communism (journal)", "text": "Libertarian Communism (journal)\n\nLibertarian Communism was a socialist journal founded in 1974 and produced in part by members of the Socialist Party of Great Britain.\n\nDuring the 1960s the Socialist Party of Great Britain was enthused by an influx of new recruits initially politicised by the CND marches, Vietnam and the May Events of 1968. The boost to Party membership and activity at this time was considerable.\n\nInfluenced by the prevailing political climate, some members who joined in this period wanted to change the emphasis of the Party’s propaganda efforts towards taking a more positive attitude to industrial struggles, Claimants Unions and Tenants Associations, but also to women's liberation and squatting, arguing that the Party had developed a somewhat idealist conception of how socialist consciousness arises, being divorced from the day-to-day struggles of workers. To this effect fifteen activists from the 60s generation signed a mini-manifesto entitled “Where We Stand” in 1973 and circulated it inside the Party. \n\nOne particular group of these activists published an internal discussion bulletin, which, in 1974, converted itself into an externally oriented journal called \"Libertarian Communism\". This was produced with the aid of non-members and supported the idea of workers' councils. It openly attacked as \"Kautskyite\" the Party’s traditional conception of the socialist revolution being facilitated through Parliament. At the same time another group of younger members, based mainly in Aberdeen and Edinburgh, was keen that the Party express support for such things as higher student grants (on the grounds that the Socialist Party was always prepared to support demands for higher wages). The arguments of this group found no more favour with the majority in the Party than those put forward by the group around \"Libertarian Communism\". Both groups were expelled for issuing literature that contradicted Party policy.\n\nThe prominent activists of the time who were either expelled or left of their own volition typically became involved in single-issue campaigns or the radical feminist movement. However, one network of former members — those based around \"Libertarian Communism\", who were critical of the Party’s revolutionary strategy and attracted by council communist ideas — created an organisation called Social Revolution along with the Aberdeen and Edinburgh activists, which later joined the Solidarity group. Some years later a number of these activists were also involved in the foundation of the Wildcat council communist group and one of its successors, Subversion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12497165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12497165", "title": "List of Welsh Governments", "text": "List of Welsh Governments\n\nThis is a list of all Welsh Government ministerial teams which have existed since the introduction of devolution for Wales in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "48198345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48198345", "title": "List of nationalizations by country", "text": "List of nationalizations by country\n\nThis is a list of industries, services, products, or companies that have been nationalized by country.\n\n\n\nMost utilities were nationally owned before being privatized in 1994.\n\n\n\n\nOn the break-up of Yugoslavia, The HDZ government nationalized private agricultural property and rezoned it under the guise of forest statesmanship, when their publicly professed agenda was to only complete the nationalization of the communists. Much of this land is in the process of being reinstated and the model rethought.\n\nAfter the Cuban Revolution of 1959 the Castro government gradually expropriated all foreign-owned private companies, most of which were owned by American corporations and individuals. The immediate trigger was the refusal by American owned oil refineries to refine the crude received from the Soviet Union. Faced with the prospect of no oil, Cuba nationalized the three American refineries. This action escalated the US embargo on Cuba, which responded by nationalizing all American owned property. Eventually all Cuban private property, largely owned by Cubans sympathetic to the Batista led dictatorship, was nationalized.\n\nFrom 1966-68, the Castro government nationalized all remaining privately owned businesses in Cuba, down to the level of street vendors.\n\nCastro had offered bonds at 4.5% interest over twenty years to U.S. companies, but U.S. ambassador Philip Bonsal requested the compensation up front and rejected the offer. A minor amount of $1.3 million, was paid to U.S. interests before deteriorating relations ended all cooperation between the two governments. The U.S. established a registry of claims against the Cuban government, ultimately developing files on 5,911 specific companies. The Cuban government has refused to discuss the compensation of U.S. claims and the U.S. government continues to insist on compensation for U.S. companies.\n\n\n\nNationalisation dates back to the 'regies' or state monopolies organized under the \"Ancien Régime\", for example, the monopoly on tobacco sales. Communications companies France Telecom and La Poste are relics of the state postal and telecommunications monopolies.\n\nThere was a major expansion of the nationalised sector following World War II. A second wave followed in 1982.\n\nThe Paris regional transport operator, RATP Group, can also be counted as a nationalised industry.\n\nThe railways were nationalised after World War I. Partial privatisation of Deutsche Bahn is currently underway, as of 2008.\n\nLarge sections of the mining, banking, and shipping industries either became dependent on government money or were placed entirely under care of the Weimar Republic in the wake of the Great Depression; these were later reprivatized between 1934-1937 by the Nazi regime.\n\nMost enterprises in East Germany were nationalised following World War II. After reunification, an agency, Treuhand, was established to return them to private ownership, however many were liquidated.\n\n\n\nThe nationalised banks were credited by some, including Home minister P. Chidambaram, to have helped the Indian economy withstand the global financial crisis of 2007-2009.\n\n\n\nRailways were nationalised in the 1940s as Córas Iompair Éireann.\n\n\n\nThe regime of Benito Mussolini extended nationalisation, creating the Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale (IRI) as a State holding company for struggling firms, including the car maker Alfa Romeo. A parallel body, Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi (Eni) was set up to manage State oil and gas interests. Fascist Italy had nationalized over three-fourths of its economy by 1939, more so than any nation other than the Soviet Union. Mussolini had earlier boasted in 1934 that “Three-fourths of Italian economy, industrial and agricultural, is in the hands of the state.\" By 1939 the Italian state had taken over four-fifths of Italy’s shipping and shipbuilding, three-fourths of pig iron production, and nearly half of the steel industry.\n\n\n\nMany lands, enterprises and industries were also nationalized in northern Korea after World War II, which later became the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in 1948.\n\nIn 2011 Snoras bank was nationalized.\n\nIn 2008 Parex Bank was nationalized.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDuring the dictatorship of Ferdinand Marcos, important companies such as Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company (PLDT), Philippine Airlines, Meralco and the Manila Hotel were nationalized. Other companies were sometimes absorbed into these government-owned corporations, as well as other companies, such as National Power Corporation (Napocor) and the Philippine National Railways, which in their own right are monopolies (exceptions are Meralco and the Manila Hotel). Today, these companies have been reprivatized and some, such as PLDT and Philippine Airlines, have been de-monopolized. Others, like government-owned and controlled corporation Napocor, are in the process of privatization.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Arusha Declaration was proclaimed in 1967 by President Julius Nyerere, which aimed to achieve self-reliance through nationalising key sectors of the economy such as banks, large industries and plantations were therefore nationalised. This failed, worsening Tanzania's economic problems until foreign aid and liberalisation took effect in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nAfter the abolition of Capitulations of the Ottoman Empire by the Treaty of Lausanne (1923), foreign concessions were suppressed, rail transport, electric power generation and distribution, telephone network and other big industrial firms were nationalized by Turkish government between 1928 and 1940.\n\n\nNationalization was a key feature of the first post World War II Labour government, from 1945 to 1951 under Clement Attlee. The coal and steel industries were just two of many industries or services to be nationalised, while the formation of the National Health Service in 1948 entitled everyone to free healthcare. The subsequent Conservative governments led by Winston Churchill, Anthony Eden, Harold Macmillan, Alec Douglas-Home and Edward Heath allowed practically all of the nationalized industries and services to remain in public ownership, as part of the Post-War Consensus. However, the election victory of Margaret Thatcher's Conservatives in 1979 saw the vast majority of nationalized industries, services and utilities privatized within a decade. The National Health Service was allowed to continue. The Labour Party initially opposed Thatcher's privatization, but the party's commitment to nationalisation had been abandoned by the time it swept back into power in 1997 under Tony Blair. However, in February 2008, Blair's successor Gordon Brown nationalized the failing Northern Rock bank during the Great Recession. The much larger Royal Bank of Scotland and Halifax Bank of Scotland were part nationalized for the same reason in October of that year. After nearly four years in public ownership, Northern Rock was sold to Virgin Money and Royal Bank of Scotland agreed a branch sale to the Santander Group in November 2011. However, Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds remain in public ownership five years later and in November 2012 the Public Accounts Committee warned that it could be many years before the banks are sold and the £66 billion so far invested in these banks may never be recovered.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55207856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55207856", "title": "Martial law in the United States", "text": "Martial law in the United States\n\nMartial law in the United States refers to several periods in United States history wherein a region or the United States as whole are placed under the control of a military body. On a federal level, only the president has the power to impose Martial Law. In each state the governor has the right to impose martial law within the borders of the state. In the United States, martial law has been used in a limited number of circumstances, such as directly after a foreign attack, such as Hawaii after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor or New Orleans during the Battle of New Orleans; after major disasters, such as the Great Chicago Fire of 1871 or the San Francisco earthquake of 1906; renegade local leaders seeking to avoid arrest, such as Nauvoo, Illinois during the Illinois Mormon War, or Utah during the Utah War; or in response to chaos associated with protests and mob action, such as the 1934 West Coast waterfront strike, or mob actions against the Freedom Riders. \n\nThe martial law concept in the United States is closely tied with the right of \"habeas corpus\", which is in essence the right to a hearing on lawful imprisonment, or more broadly, the supervision of law enforcement by the judiciary. The ability to suspend \"habeas corpus\" is related to the imposition of martial law. Article 1, Section 9 of the US Constitution states, \"The Privilege of the Writ of \"Habeas Corpus\" shall not be suspended, unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it.\" There have been many instances of the use of the military within the borders of the United States, such as during the Whiskey Rebellion and in the South during the Civil Rights Movement, but these acts are not tantamount to a declaration of martial law. The distinction must be made as clear as that between martial law and military justice: deployment of troops does not necessarily mean that the civil courts cannot function, and that is one of the keys, as the Supreme Court noted, to martial law.\n\nIn United States law, martial law is limited by several court decisions that were handed down between the American Civil War and World War II. In 1878, Congress passed the Posse Comitatus Act, which forbids military involvement in domestic law enforcement without congressional approval.\n\nThroughout United States history are several examples of the imposition of martial law, aside from that during the Civil War.\n\nAs a result of the Boston Tea Party, Parliament passed the Massachusetts Government Act, one of the Intolerable Acts, which suppressed town meetings and assemblies, and imposed appointed government, tantamount to martial law.\n\nDuring the War of 1812, US General Andrew Jackson imposed martial law in New Orleans, Louisiana before repulsing the British in the Battle of New Orleans. Martial law was also imposed in a four-mile radius around the vicinity. When word came of the end of the war, Jackson maintained martial law, contending that he had not gotten official word of the peace. A judge demanded \"habeas corpus\" for a man arrested for sedition. Rather than comply with the writ, Jackson had the judge arrested.\n\nIn 1843, Missouri sought to extradite Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism, for the attempted murder of Missouri governor Lilburn Boggs. He escaped arrest with the help of members of his church, and was discharged on a writ of habeas corpus in the Municipal Court of Nauvoo, where he was mayor, even though it was outside the court's jurisdiction. People in the neighboring town of Carthage, Illinois felt that Smith was abusing his position in order to avoid arrest. They requested that Governor Ford call out the militia to take Smith into custody, to which Governor Ford declined. A group of ex-Mormons published a paper called the Nauvoo Expositor which detailed Smith's alleged abuse of power. Together with the Nauvoo City Council, Smith ordered the destruction of the Nauvoo Expositor. This caused an uproar in neighboring towns, who interpreted the order as an attack on the freedom of speech. Smith was charged with causing a riot, which the Nauvoo courts dismissed. Neighboring cities raised money for a militia to go and capture Smith. Governor Ford arrived in Carthage and sent word to Smith that if he did not surrender, Ford would call out the militia. On June 18, Smith declared martial law in Nauvoo and called out the Nauvoo Legion, an organized city militia of about 5,000 men, to protect Nauvoo from outside violence. Ford sent a group of men and abolished martial law. By this time, Smith had escaped into Iowa, but was convinced by his supporters to return. He was arrested for treason against the state of Illinois for declaring martial law. While awaiting trial in Carthage Jail, Smith was murdered by a mob. In 1845, Nauvoo was stripped of its charter for abuse of authority. This led to a series of conflicts known as the Illinois Mormon War.\n\nTension between Utah territory and the federal government was strained in 1857 due to the influence of theodemocracy in the Governor Brigham Young's semi-theocratic government, Utah's rejection of Federal appointees, and Utah's acceptance of polygamy and slavery. In 1857, President James Buchanan sent U.S. forces to the Utah Territory in what became known as the Utah War. The Mormons, fearful that the large U.S. military force had been sent to annihilate them made preparations for defense. On 15 September, Young publicly declared martial law in Utah. It was widely circulated throughout the Territory and was delivered by messenger to Col. Alexander with the approaching army. The most important provision forbade \"\"all armed forces of every description from coming into this Territory, under any pretense whatsoever\".\" It also commanded that \"\"all the forces in said Territory hold themselves in readiness to march at a moment's notice to repel any and all such invasion\".\" But more important to California and Oregon bound travelers was the third section that stated \"\"Martial law is hereby declared to exist in this Territory...and no person shall be allowed to pass or repass into, through or from this territory without a permit from the proper officer\".\" Brigham Young ordered the people in Salt Lake City, Utah to burn their homes and retreat south to Provo, Utah. Meanwhile, the Mormons harassed the approaching army. Eventually, Brigham Young was removed as governor and replaced by Alfred Cumming.\n\nOn September 15, 1863 President Lincoln imposed Congressionally authorized martial law. The authorizing act allowed the President to suspend \"habeas corpus\" throughout the entire United States (which he had already done under his own authority on April 27, 1861). Lincoln imposed the suspension on \"prisoners of war, spies, or aiders and abettors of the enemy,\" as well as on other classes of people, such as draft dodgers. The President's proclamation was challenged in \"Ex parte Milligan\", 71 US 2 [1866]. The Supreme Court ruled that Lincoln's imposition of martial law (by way of suspension of \"habeas corpus\") was unconstitutional in areas where the local courts were still in session.\n\nIn response to the Great Chicago Fire of 1871, Chicago mayor Roswell B. Mason declared a state of martial law and placed General Philip Sheridan in charge of the city on October 9, 1871. After the fire was extinguished, there were no widespread disturbances and martial law was lifted within a few days.\n\nIn 1892, in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, striking mine workers blew up a mill and shot at strike-breaking workers. The explosion leveled a four-story building and killed one person. The governor declared martial law. At the same time, a request was made for federal troops to back guardsmen. Over 600 people were arrested. The list was whittled down to two dozen ringleaders who were tried in military court. While in prison, the mine workers formed a new union, the Western Federation of Miners.\n\nFollowing the earthquake of 1906, the troops stationed in the Presidio were pressed into martial law service. Guards were posted throughout the city, and all dynamite was confiscated. The dynamite was used to destroy buildings in the path of fires, to prevent the fires from spreading.\n\nIn 1914, imposition of martial law climaxed the so-called Colorado Coalfield War. Dating back decades, the conflicts came to a head in Ludlow, Colorado in 1913. The Colorado National Guard was called in to quell the strikers. For a time, the peace was kept, but it is reported that the make-up of the Guard stationed at the mines began to shift from impartial normal troops to companies of loyal mine guards. Clashes increased and the proclamation of martial law was made by the governor, eventually resulting in the Ludlow Massacre. President Wilson sent in federal troops, eventually ending the violence.\n\nOn August 19, 1917, the Spokane office of the IWW (Industrial Workers of the World, or Wobblies) was raided, leaders arrested, and martial law was declared. The military authority was the National Guard, controlled by the U.S. War Department. This occurred in reaction to a demand by IWW leader James Rowan that all prisoners of the \"class war\" (he meant Wobbly strikers and strike leaders involved in a statewide lumber strike) be released or Spokane would face a general strike. \nThe repression of the democratic, radical union in Spokane and across the state took place in the context of the Wobbly-led loggers'and sawmill workers'ongoing strike for the eight-hour day and sanitary conditions in the camps. The IWW was militant, radical, vocal and consistently nonviolent. \nThe larger context of the repression of the union was war hysteria, combined with employer opposition to union demands. The nationwide suppression of the IWW during the war involved physical violence, vandalism, and the imprisonment of hundreds of union members and leaders.\n\nDuring the events of the West Virginia Coal Wars (1920–1921), martial law was declared in the state of West Virginia. At the behest of Governor Cornwell, federal troops had been dispatched to Mingo County to deal with the striking miners. The army officer in charge acted, ostensibly, under the (selectively; accounts show that he only jailed union miners), and did not allow assembly of any kind. If his soldiers found any union miners, they immediately took them and imprisoned them. The jails filled up so quickly that he had to release miners. As it went, miners were arrested, jailed, and released without any sort of trial. After a time, when the trial of Sid Hatfield began, the military occupation and \"veritable military dictatorship\" (Governor Cornwell) of the army officer ended. Many of the miners were not released from jail. It was only the first of three times that federal troops would be called to quiet the miners in the West Virginia Mine War.\n\nIn 1934, California Governor Frank Merriam placed the docks of San Francisco under martial law, citing \"riots and tumult\" resulting from a dock worker's strike. The Governor threatened to place the entire city under martial law. The National Guard was called in to open the docks, and a citywide institution of martial law was averted when goods began to flow. The guardsmen were empowered to make arrests and to then try detainees or turn them over to the courts.\n\nDuring World War II (1939 to 1945) what is now the State of Hawaii was held under martial law from December 7, 1941 to October 24, 1944, following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. After the war, the federal judge for the islands condemned the conduct of martial law, saying, \"Gov. Poindexter declared lawfully martial law but the Army went beyond the governor and set up that which was lawful only in conquered enemy territory namely, military government which is not bound by the Constitution. And they ... threw the Constitution into the discard and set up a military dictatorship.\"\n\nOn May 21, 1961, Governor Patterson of Alabama declared martial law \"as a result of outside agitators coming into Alabama to violate our laws and customs\" which had led to \"outbreaks of lawlessness and mob action.\" The agitators were Freedom Riders, peaceful civil rights activists challenging the already-illegal racial segregation in the South.\n\n"}
{"id": "46906567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46906567", "title": "Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission", "text": "Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission\n\nMasterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission, 584 U.S. ___ (2018), was a case in the Supreme Court of the United States that dealt with whether owners of public accommodations can refuse certain services based on the First Amendment claims of free speech and free exercise of religion, and therefore be given an exemption from laws ensuring non-discrimination in public accommodation — in particular, by refusing to provide creative services, such as making a wedding cake for the marriage of a same-sex couple, on the basis of the owner's religious beliefs.\n\nThe case dealt with Masterpiece Cakeshop, a bakery in Lakewood, Colorado, which refused to provide a wedding cake to a gay couple based on the owner's religious beliefs. The Colorado Civil Rights Commission, evaluating the case under the state's anti-discrimination law, the Colorado Anti-Discrimination Act, found the bakery discriminated against the couple and issued specific orders for the bakery to follow. Following appeals within the state that affirmed the Commission's decision, the bakery took the case to the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nIn a 7-2 decision, the Court ruled on narrow grounds that the Commission did not employ religious neutrality, violating Masterpiece owner Jack Phillips' rights to free exercise, and reversed the Commission's decision. The Court did not rule on the broader intersection of anti-discrimination laws, free exercise of religion, and freedom of speech, due to the complications of the Commission's lack of religious neutrality.\n\nIn 2012, same-sex couple Charlie Craig and David Mullins from Colorado made plans to be lawfully married in Massachusetts and return to Colorado to celebrate with their family and friends. At that time state law did not provide for same-sex marriage in Colorado, though by 2014 the state had allowed same-sex marriages, and the Supreme Court of the United States would affirm that gay couples have the fundamental right to marry in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" .\n\nCraig and Mullins visited Masterpiece Cakeshop in Lakewood, Colorado in July 2012 to order a wedding cake for their return celebration. Masterpiece's owner Jack Phillips, who is a Christian, declined their cake request, informing the couple that he did not create wedding cakes for same-sex marriages owing to his Christian religious beliefs, although the couple could purchase other baked goods in the store. Craig and Mullins promptly left Masterpiece without discussing with Phillips any details of their wedding cake. The following day, Craig's mother, Deborah Munn, called Phillips, who advised her that Masterpiece did not make wedding cakes for same-sex weddings because of his religious beliefs and because Colorado did not recognize same-sex marriages.\n\nWhile another bakery provided a cake to the couple, Craig and Mullins filed a complaint to the Colorado Civil Rights Commission under the state's public accommodations law, the Colorado Anti-Discrimination Act, which prohibits businesses open to the public from discriminating against their customers on the basis of race, religion, gender, or sexual orientation. Colorado is one of twenty-one U.S. states that have anti-discrimination laws against sexual orientation. Craig and Mullins' complaint resulted in a lawsuit, \"Craig v. Masterpiece Cakeshop\". The case was decided in favor of the plaintiffs; the cake shop was ordered not only to provide cakes to same-sex marriages, but to \"change its company policies, provide 'comprehensive staff training' regarding public accommodations discrimination, and provide quarterly reports for the next two years regarding steps it has taken to come into compliance and whether it has turned away any prospective customers.\"\n\nMasterpiece appealed the decision to the Court of Appeals with the aid of Alliance Defending Freedom, and refused to comply with the state's orders, instead opting to remove themselves from the wedding cake business; Phillips claimed that this decision cost him 40% of his business. Alongside the Colorado Civil Rights Commission, the American Civil Liberties Union represented Craig and Mullins during the appeals. The state's decision was upheld on the grounds that despite the nature of creating a custom cake, the act of making the cake was part of the expected conduct of Phillips' business, and not an expression of free speech nor free exercise of religion. The court distinguished its decision in \"Craig\" from another case, brought to the Commission by William Jack, in which three bakeries refused to create a cake for William Jack with the message \"Homosexuality is a detestable sin. Leviticus 18:22\", citing that in the latter, the bakeries had made other cakes for Christian customers and declined that order based on the offensive message rather than the customers' creed, whereas Masterpiece Cakeshop's refusal to provide Craig & Mullins with a wedding cake \"was because of its opposition to same sex marriage which...is tantamount to discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court of Colorado declined to hear an appeal.\n\nMasterpiece Cakeshop petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court for \"certiorari\" (review), under the case name \"Masterpiece Cakeshop, Ltd. v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission\", of the following question:\nBoth the Colorado Civil Rights Commission and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) urged the Supreme Court to reject the appeal, fearing that a Court decision in favor of the business would create a \"gaping hole\" in civil rights laws on the basis of religion. The final briefs at the certiorari stage were received in December 2016. The Court agreed to hear the case in the 2017 term and oral arguments were heard on December 5, 2017.\n\nIn further filings, Masterpiece requested that the Colorado anti-discrimination law be reviewed by the Supreme Court under strict scrutiny. He further identified that while the state's law is to assure that same-sex couples had access to the same services as heterosexual couples, the law goes too far in its enforcement, since Craig and Mullins were easily able to obtain a wedding cake from a different vendor in the state. Masterpiece further believed the anti-discrimination law can be used to selectively discriminate against religion, as the Commission has allowed bakers to refuse to provide cakes with anti-same-sex marriage messages on them, even though the Commission said these refusals were appropriate due to the offensiveness of the messages and not on the basis of religion. The State and the ACLU countered these points, stating the law was aimed only at conduct of a business, not their speech, and in cases like a wedding cake, \"[no] reasonable observer would understand the Company’s provision of a cake to a gay couple as an expression of its approval of the customer's marriage\". They further argued that the cakeshop could provide catchall language to explain that any services they provide do not endorse any expressions of free speech associated with it, an allowance within the anti-discrimination law.\n\nAround 100 legal briefs were filed by third parties, roughly equally split in supporting either side of the case. Many civil rights organizations filed briefs in support of Craig and Mullins, including the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, Southern Poverty Law Center, the Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs, and the Civil Rights Forum, a group of plaintiff-side civil rights attorneys.\n\nAmong those supporting Phillips include the United States Department of Justice under the Trump administration. While the Department asserts that anti-discrimination laws are necessary to prevent businesses that provide goods and services, these laws cannot be used to compel a business into expressing speech they do not agree with, nor used to provide goods and services with such expressions without the ability for the business to assert they do not agree with those expressions. The brief was criticized by several organizations, including those that support LGBT rights, claiming the brief as a pattern of hostile actions by the Trump administration and fearing that a decision in favor of Masterpiece would enable such businesses to have a \"license to discriminate\".\n\nOral arguments for the plaintiffs were provided by Kristen Waggoner for the Alliance Defending Freedom, representing Phillips, and the Solicitor General of the United States Noel Francisco, presenting the United States' government case as amicus curiae in support of Masterpiece Cakeshop. The defendants' arguments were given by Colorado Solicitor General Frederick Yarger, on behalf of the Colorado Civil Rights Commission, and David D. Cole of the ACLU, on behalf of Craig and Mullins. Questions asked by the Justices attempted to determine where the bounds of a cake baker's rights and the rights of those soliciting his services would extend by considering several hypothetical situations involving the making of and selling custom cakes, including situations related to racial and gender-preference discrimination.\n\nExperts believed the Supreme Court's opinions in the case would be divided, with the ultimate decision falling on the opinion of Justice Anthony Kennedy, who has historically been a swing vote in his term. In his past case history, he has been a strong supporter of gay rights (having authored all of the landmark gay rights rulings by the Supreme Court: \"Romer v. Evans\" in 1996, \"Lawrence v. Texas\" in 2003, \"United States v. Windsor\" in 2013, and \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" in 2015), and a corporation's freedom of speech in his majority opinion for \"Citizens United v. FEC\" , and freedom of religion through his concurrence with the majority in \"Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc.\" .\n\nThe Court issued its ruling on June 4, 2018, ordering a reversal of the decision made by the Colorado Civil Rights Commission. The majority opinion was written by Justice Anthony Kennedy, and joined by Chief Justice John Roberts, and Justices Samuel Alito, Stephen Breyer, Elena Kagan and Neil Gorsuch. The opinion stated that although a baker, in his capacity as the owner of a business serving the public, \"might have his right to the free exercise of his religion limited by generally applicable laws\", a State decision in an adjudication “in which religious hostility on the part of the State itself” is a factor violates the \"State’s obligation of religious neutrality\" under the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment to the Constitution. Kennedy's opinion stated that the Commission's review of Phillips' case exhibited hostility towards his religious views. The Commission compared Phillips' religious beliefs to defense of slavery or the Holocaust. Kennedy found such comparisons \"inappropriate for a Commission charged with the solemn responsibility of fair and neutral enforcement of Colorado’s anti-discrimination law\". Kennedy's opinion also cited the three exemptions the commission previously granted for the non-discrimination law arising from the William Jack complaints. The opinion also noted differences in handling previous exemptions as indicative of Commission hostility towards religious belief, rather than maintaining neutrality. Kennedy's opinion noted that he may have been inclined to rule in favor of the Commission if they had remained religiously neutral in their evaluation.\n\nJustice Kagan wrote a concurring opinion, joined by Breyer, taking particular notice of the narrow grounds of the ruling. Justice Gorsuch also wrote a concurring opinion, joined by Alito. Both Kagan's and Gorsuch's concurrence considered how the Commission handled Masterpiece differently than prior exemption requests. Kagan and Gorsuch concurrence agreed the Commission exhibited hostility towards Phillips' religious beliefs and concurred with the reversal. Kagan cited as significant differences between prior Commission exemptions and the instant case. She posited the Commission could have ruled differently in the two situations if they had stayed religiously-neutral. Gorsuch indicated the Commission should maintain consistency among similar cases.\n\nJustice Clarence Thomas wrote another opinion, concurring in part and concurring in judgment, joined by Gorsuch. Thomas found that the Majority opinion did not consider the free speech, free exercise or anti-discrimination implications of the case, despite significant attention during oral arguments. Thomas opined support for Masterpiece, both on grounds of free speech and free exercise.\n\nJustice Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote the dissenting opinion, joined by Sonia Sotomayor. Ginsburg believed that the Commission acted fairly in evaluating the case, saying \"what critically differentiates them is the role the customer’s 'statutorily protected trait,' played in the denial of service\".\n\nThe Court avoided ruling broadly on the intersection of anti-discrimination laws and rights to free exercise. Kennedy's decision specifically noted the hostility towards Phillips made by the Commission as their reason to reverse the ruling, but because of the existence of this hostility in the current case, they could not rule on the broader issue regarding anti-discrimination law and the free exercise of religion. Kennedy stated that \"[t]he outcome of cases like this in other circumstances must await further elaboration in the courts, all in the context of recognizing that these disputes must be resolved with tolerance, without undue disrespect to sincere religious beliefs, and without subjecting gay persons to indignities when they seek goods and services in an open market\". Kennedy's decision affirmed that there remains protection of same-sex couples and gay rights which states can still enforce through anti-discrimination laws, a point also agreed to by Ginsburg's dissent. The general constitutionality of anti-discrimination laws to prevent discrimination against sexual orientation affirmed by the \"Masterpiece\" decision was reflected in lower courts that same week, in a case decided by the Arizona Court of Appeals, \"Brush & Nib Studio v. Phoenix\", which upheld the city of Phoenix's anti-discrimination ordinance that included sexual orientation. The Court of Appeals extensively quoted \"Masterpiece\" in affirming the Arizona Superior Court's prior decision.\n\nThe Alliance Defending Freedom, which represented Masterpiece, supported the Court's decision in finding that condemned the Commission's review of Phillips' case, stating that \"Tolerance and respect for good-faith differences of opinion are essential in a society like ours\". The American Civil Liberties Union welcomed the part of the decision affirming protection of gay rights, stating that the Court \"reaffirmed its longstanding rule that states can prevent the harms of discrimination in the marketplace, including against L.G.B.T. people\".\n\nAnother predominate case involving anti-discrimination laws and religious freedom that was in the court system during \"Masterpiece\" was the Arlene's Flowers lawsuit in Washington, with the issue over flower arrangements being provided for a same-sex wedding. Prior to the decision in \"Masterpiece\", a petition for writ of certorari had been issued to the Supreme Court. Following the decision of \"Masterpiece\", the flower shop owner used that decision to assert that they were shown similar religious hostility, and requested their case to be reheard. On June 25, 2018, the Supreme Court dismissed the pending petition, and ordered that lower courts review the flower shop's case in a similar light as \"Masterpiece\".\n\n\"Masterpiece\"s basis of evaluating statements of public officials to determine if there was religious hostility in evaluating cases arose in Justice Sotomayor's dissent in \"Trump v. Hawaii\", , which dealt with President Trump's travel ban against several nations which had a high Muslim population. While the majority ruled that the ban was within the President's powers and sent the case back to lower courts to rule on other matters, Sotomayor believed that the decision of \"Masterpiece\" should have been used to judge President Trump and his administration's statements that she believed showed hostility towards Muslims and would have not justified the ban.\n\nA nationwide and state-by-state poll on the issue conducted throughout 2017 by the Public Religion Research Institute as part of the annual \"American Values Atlas\" survey revealed that 60% of Americans, including a majority or plurality in every state, opposed allowing religiously-based refusals of services or products to gay people by small business owners (colloquially known as \"the baker's exception\"), while 33% supported allowing such religiously-based refusal, and 7% had no opinion.\n\nMasterpiece Cakeshop became involved in a similar case in 2018, stemming from an incident in June 2017. The bakery refused to bake Autumn Scardina, a Colorado lawyer, a cake to celebrate her gender transition, which would have had a pink interior and blue exterior. Philips stated later that he refused to bake such a cake based on his Christian beliefs that one does not get to choose their gender. Scardina complained to the Colorado Division of Civil Rights, which found in June 2018 sufficient evidence that the bakery discriminated against her transgender status, and ordered the parties into compulsory mediation. Philips subsequently filed a lawsuit against the state in August 2018 to seek a permanent injunction to prevent the state from enforcing its anti-discrimination laws against him as well as punitive damages. Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper, who is named as a defendant in the suit, expects that the case will require the Supreme Court to revisit its decision from \"Masterpiece\", as the previous ruling \"did not address the basic issue\" of religious freedom.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10284162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10284162", "title": "Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock (Turkey)", "text": "Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock (Turkey)\n\nThe Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock () is a government ministry office of the Republic of Turkey, responsible for food, agriculture and livestock in Turkey. Current minister is Faruk Çelik.\n"}
{"id": "56859181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56859181", "title": "Ministry of Higher Education (Zambia)", "text": "Ministry of Higher Education (Zambia)\n\nThe Ministry of Higher Education is a ministry in Zambia. It oversees university and vocational, training, science, technology and innovation and is headed by the Minister of Higher Education.\n\nThe current ministry was established in 2005 after being split from the Ministry of Education, which was renamed the Ministry of General Education. It had existed previously as the Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training. Prior to that, there had been a Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Education responsible for technical education.\n\n"}
{"id": "30406598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30406598", "title": "Niagara Falls peace conference", "text": "Niagara Falls peace conference\n\nThe Niagara Falls peace conference, sometimes referred to as the ABC Conference, started on May 20, 1914, when representatives from Argentina, Brazil and Chile—the ABC Powers—met in Niagara Falls, Canada, for diplomatic negotiations in order to avoid war between the United States and Mexico, during the era of the Mexican Revolution.\n\nThere were increasing tensions between the two over the Tampico Affair of April 9, 1914 and the subsequent United States occupation of Veracruz of April 21, 1914 during the Mexican Revolution. The Mexican and American governments had severed all diplomatic channels between one another. At the conference, Domício da Gama represented Brazil, Rómulo Sebastián Naón represented Argentina, and Eduardo Suárez Mujica represented Chile.\n\nThe United States was represented by Frederick William Lehmann, a former United States Solicitor General; and Joseph Rucker Lamar, an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. On May 27, 1914 to celebrate their success, the ABC envoys and the U.S. and Mexican delegates to the conference attended a royal garden party given by the Duke of Connaught, the Governor General of Canada at the King Edward Hotel.\n\nOn March 4, 1915 three South American diplomats received the Thanks of Congress and were awarded Congressional Gold Medals (P.L. 63-75, 38 Stat. 1228). The statute reads as follows.\n\nResolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the thanks of Congress to their excellencies be, and they are hereby, presented to their excellencies Señor Domício da Gama, Señor Rómulo S. Naón, and Señor Eduardo Suárez for their generous services as mediators in the controversy between the Government of the United States of America and the leaders of the warring parties in the Republic of Mexico. That the President of the United States is hereby authorized and requested to cause to be made and presented to their excellencies Señor Domicio da Gama, Señor Rómulo S. Naón, and Señor Eduardo Suárez suitable gold medals, appropriately inscribed, which shall express the high estimation in which Congress holds the services of these distinguished statesmen, and the Republics which they represent, in the promotion of peace and order in the American continent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22788", "title": "Organization of American States", "text": "Organization of American States\n\nThe Organization of American States (, , ), or the OAS or OEA, is a continental organization that was founded on 30 April 1948, for the purposes of regional solidarity and cooperation among its member states. Headquartered in the United States capital Washington, D.C., the OAS's members are the 35 independent states of the Americas.\n\nAs of 26 May 2015, the Secretary General of OAS is Luis Almagro.\n\nThe notion of an international union in the New World was first put forward by Simón Bolívar who, at the 1826 Congress of Panama (still being part of Colombia), proposed creating a league of American republics, with a common military, a mutual defense pact, and a supranational parliamentary assembly. This meeting was attended by representatives of Gran Colombia (comprising the modern-day countries of Colombia, Ecuador, Panama and Venezuela), Peru, Bolivia, The United Provinces of Central America, and Mexico but the grandly titled \"Treaty of Union, League, and Perpetual Confederation\" was ultimately ratified only by Gran Colombia. Bolívar's dream soon floundered with civil war in Gran Colombia, the disintegration of Central America, and the emergence of national rather than New World outlooks in the newly independent American republics. Bolívar's dream of American unity was meant to unify Hispanic American nations against external powers.\n\nThe pursuit of regional solidarity and cooperation again came to the forefront in 1889–1890, at the First International Conference of American States. Gathered together in Washington, D.C., 18 nations resolved to found the International Union of American Republics, served by a permanent secretariat called the Commercial Bureau of the American Republics (renamed the International Commercial Bureau at the Second International Conference in 1901–1902). These two bodies, in existence as of 14 April 1890, represent the point of inception to which the OAS and its General Secretariat trace their origins.\n\nAt the Fourth International Conference of American States (Buenos Aires, 1910), the name of the organization was changed to the Union of American Republics and the Bureau became the Pan American Union. The Pan American Union Building was constructed in 1910, on Constitution Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D.C.\nIn the mid-1930s, U.S. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt organized an inter-American conference in Buenos Aires. One of the items at the conference was a \"League of Nations of the Americas\", an idea proposed by Colombia, Guatemala, and the Dominican Republic. At the subsequent Inter-American Conference for the Maintenance of Peace, 21 nations pledged to remain neutral in the event of a conflict between any two members. The experience of World War II convinced hemispheric governments that unilateral action could not ensure the territorial integrity of the American nations in the event of external aggression. To meet the challenges of global conflict in the postwar world and to contain conflicts within the hemisphere, they adopted a system of collective security, the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio Treaty) signed in 1947 in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThe Ninth International Conference of American States was held in Bogotá between March and May 1948 and led by United States Secretary of State George Marshall, a meeting which led to a pledge by members to fight communism in the western hemisphere. This was the event that saw the birth of the OAS as it stands today, with the signature by 21 American countries of the Charter of the Organization of American States on 30 April 1948 (in effect since December 1951). The meeting also adopted the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, the world's first general human rights instrument.\n\nThe transition from the Pan American Union to OAS would have been smooth if it had not been for the assassination of Colombian leader Jorge Eliécer Gaitán. The Director General of the former, Alberto Lleras Camargo, became the Organization's first Secretary General. The current Secretary General is former Uruguayan minister of foreign affairs Luis Almagro.\n\nSignificant milestones in the history of the OAS since the signing of the Charter have included the following:\n\n\nIn the words of Article 1 of the Charter, the goal of the member nations in creating the OAS was \"to achieve an order of peace and justice, to promote their solidarity, to strengthen their collaboration, and to defend their sovereignty, their territorial integrity, and their independence.\" Article 2 then defines eight essential purposes:\n\nOver the course of the 1990s, with the end of the Cold War, the return to democracy in Latin America, and the thrust toward globalization, the OAS made major efforts to reinvent itself to fit the new context. Its stated priorities now include the following:\n\n\nThe Organization of American States is composed of an Organization of American States General Secretariat, the Permanent Council, the Inter-American Council for Integral Development, and a number of committees.\n\nThe General Secretariat of the Organization of American States consists of six secretariats.\n\nThe various committees of the Organization of American States include:\n\n\nThe General Assembly is the supreme decision-making body of OAS. It convenes once every year in a regular session. In special circumstances, and with the approval of two-thirds of the member states, the Permanent Council can convene special sessions.\n\nThe Organization's member states take turns hosting the General Assembly on a rotating basis. The states are represented at its sessions by their chosen delegates: generally, their ministers of foreign affairs, or their appointed deputies. Each state has one vote, and most matters—except for those for which the Charter or the General Assembly's own rules of procedure specifically require a two-thirds majority—are settled by a simple majority vote.\n\nThe General Assembly's powers include setting the OAS's general course and policies by means of resolutions and declarations; approving its budget and determining the contributions payable by the member states; approving the reports and previous year's actions of the OAS's specialized agencies; and electing members to serve on those agencies.\n\nAll 35 independent nations of the Americas are members of the OAS. Upon foundation on 5 May 1948, there were 21 members:\n\nThe later expansion of the OAS included Canada and the newly independent nations of the Caribbean. Members with later admission dates (sorted chronologically):\n\nAlthough Canada has been a founding member of the League of Nations in 1919 and has joined international organizations since that date, it chose not to join the OAS when it was first formed, despite its close relations with the United States. Canada became a Permanent Observer in the OAS on 2 February 1972. Canada signed the Charter of the Organization of American States on 13 November 1989 and this decision was ratified on 8 January 1990.\n\nIn 2004–2005, Canada was the second largest contributor to the OAS, with an annual assessed contribution representing 12.36 percent of the OAS Regular Budget (US$9.2 million) and an additional C$9 million in voluntary contributions to specific projects. Shortly after joining as a full member, Canada was instrumental in the creation of the Unit for the Promotion of Democracy, which provides support for the strengthening and consolidation of democratic processes and institutions in OAS member states.\n\nDuring the 6th Conference of Foreign Ministers of the Organization of American States (OAS) in Costa Rica, from 16 to 20 August 1960, a conviction against the State of the Dominican Republic was agreed to unanimously. The penalty was motivated because the foreign ministers checked the veracity of the claim that the Rafael Trujillo regime had sponsored an attack against Rómulo Betancourt, at that time, constitutional president of Venezuela. The meeting was attended by foreign ministers from 21 American nations, including Cuba, which at that time had not yet been expelled from the inter-American system.\n\nAll countries, including the United States and Haiti broke off diplomatic relations with the Dominican Republic. Additionally an economic blockade that affected the exports of sugar was applied, which at that time was the pillar of the Dominican economy.\n\nIt was the first application of the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance, which had been adopted at the OAS on July 29, 1960.\n\nThe current government of Cuba was excluded from participation in the Organization under a decision adopted by the Eighth Meeting of Consultation in Punta del Este, Uruguay, on 31 January 1962. The vote was passed by 14 in favor, with one against (Cuba) and six abstentions (Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, and Mexico). The operative part of the resolution reads as follows:\n\nThis meant that the Cuban nation was still technically a member state, but that the current government was denied the right of representation and attendance at meetings and of participation in activities. The OAS's position was that although Cuba's participation was suspended, its obligations under the Charter, the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, etc. still hold: for instance, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights continued to publish reports on Cuba's human rights situation and to hear individual cases involving Cuban nationals. However, this stance was occasionally questioned by other individual member states.\n\nCuba's position was stated in an official note sent to the Organization \"merely as a courtesy\" by Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. Raúl Roa on 4 November 1964: \"Cuba was arbitrarily excluded... The Organization of American States has no juridical, factual, or moral jurisdiction, nor competence, over a state which it has illegally deprived of its rights.\"\n\nThe reincorporation of Cuba as an active member regularly arose as a topic within the inter-American system for instance, it was intimated by the outgoing ambassador of Mexico in 1998but most observers did not see it as a serious possibility while the present government remained in power. Since 1960, the Cuban administration had repeatedly characterized the OAS as the \"Ministry of Colonies\" of the United States of America. On 6 May 2005, President Fidel Castro reiterated that the island nation would not \"be part of a disgraceful institution that has only humiliated the honor of Latin American nations.\" After Fidel Castro's recent retirement and the ascent of his brother Raúl to power, this official position was reasserted. Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez promised to veto any final declaration of the 2009 Summit of the Americas due to Cuba's exclusion.\n\nOn 17 April 2009, after a \"trading of warm words\" between the administrations of U.S. President Barack Obama and Cuban leader Raúl Castro, OAS Secretary General José Miguel Insulza said he would ask the 2009 General Assembly to annul the 1962 resolution excluding Cuba.\n\nOn 3 June 2009, foreign ministers assembled in San Pedro Sula, Honduras, for the OAS's 39th General Assembly, passed a vote to lift Cuba's suspension from the OAS. The United States had been pressuring the OAS for weeks to condition Cuba's readmission to the group on democratic principles and commitment to human rights. Ecuador's Foreign Minister Fander Falconí said there will be no such conditions. \"This is a new proposal, it has no conditions—of any kind,\" Falconí said. \"That suspension was made in the Cold War, in the language of the Cold War. What we have done here is fix a historic error.\" The suspension was lifted at the end of the General Assembly, but, to be readmitted to the Organization, Cuba will need to comply with all the treaties signed by the Member States, including the Inter-American Democratic Charter of 2001. A statement issued by the Cuban government on 8 June 2009 stated that while Cuba welcomed the Assembly's gesture, in light of the Organization's historical record \"Cuba will not return to the OAS.\"\n\nFollowing the expulsion of its President Manuel Zelaya, Honduras' membership of the Organization was suspended unanimously at midnight on 5 July 2009. The \"de facto\" government had already announced it was leaving the OAS hours earlier; this was not, however, taken into account by the OAS, which did not recognize that government as legitimate. An extraordinary meeting had been conducted by the OAS in Washington, D.C., with Zelaya in attendance. The suspension of Honduras was approved unanimously with 33 votes (Honduras did not vote). This was the first suspension carried out by the OAS since that of Cuba in 1962.\n\nAfter Zelaya's return to Honduras in 2011, the country was re-admitted to the Organization on 1 June 2011 with 32 votes in favor and 1 (Ecuador) against. Venezuela expressed some reservations.\n\nOn 26 April 2017, Venezuela announced its intention to withdraw from the OAS. Venezuelan Foreign Minister Delcy Rodríguez said that President Nicolás Maduro planned to publicly renounce Venezuela's membership on 27 April 2017. It would take two years for the country to formally leave. During this period, the country does not plan on participating in the OAS.\n\nAs of 31 January 2014, there are 69 permanent observer countries including the four countries with territories in the Americas—Denmark, France, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom; as well as the European Union.\n\nThe Organization's official languages are Spanish, Portuguese, French and English. The Charter, the basic instrument governing OAS, makes no reference to the use of official languages. These references are to be found in the Rules of Procedure governing the various OAS bodies. Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the supreme body of the OAS, which meets once a year, states that English, French, Portuguese and Spanish are the four official languages. Article 28 stipulates that a Style Committee shall be set up with representatives of the four official languages to review the General Assembly resolutions and declarations. Article 53 states that proposals shall be presented in the four official languages. The Rules of Procedure and Statutes of other bodies, such as the Inter-American Council for Integral Development (CIDI), the Permanent Executive Committee of the Inter-American Council for Integral Development (CEPCIDI), the Inter-American Commission of Women (CIM), the Inter-American Drug Abuse Control Commission (CICAD), the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) and the Inter-American Juridical Committee (CJI), technical bodies of the OAS, also mention the four official languages in which their meetings are to be conducted. Policy is therefore dictated through these instruments that require use of the four official languages at meetings.\n\nAlthough a number of other languages have official status in one or more member states of OAS (Dutch in Suriname; Haitian Creole alongside French in Haiti; Quechua and Aymara in Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia; Guaraní in Paraguay), they are not official languages of the Organization.\n\nhttp://patscowindshield.com\n"}
{"id": "6950491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6950491", "title": "Peasants' League", "text": "Peasants' League\n\nThe Peasants' League (in Dutch: \"Plattelandersbond\", PB) was a Dutch agrarian political party. The League played only a minor role in Dutch politics.\n\nThe party was founded on February 17, 1917. In the elections of 1918 the party won one seat. It had campaigned with two lists, one religious list and one secular list, in order to appeal to both religious and secular farmers. During the First World War the Netherlands, a neutral country, had to rely on its own agriculture. Government influence in agriculture had increased, to the unhappiness of many farmers. The party's seat was taken by Frederik Bos. Between 1918 and 1919 the League cooperated in the neutral parliamentary party, with other four one or two seat parties, namely the Alliance for the Democratisation of the Army, the Economic League, the Middle Class Party and the Neutral Party. The parliamentary party was led by former minister Willem Treub. In 1919 Bos was replaced by Arend Braat as member of parliament. Braat was an unsophisticated and unconventional MP, who attempted to revoke the law on daylight saving time on five occasions but failed in each. He was ignored by most other politicians and scorned by the media for his unsophisticated behaviour. He immediately left the neutral parliamentary party.\n\nIn the elections of 1922 the party won an additional seat, this is partially explained by Braat's unconventional behaviour, which appealed the rural voters. The party's second MP De Boer tried to replace Braat as party leader. He was removed from the party ranks and participated in the 1925 elections. Braat lost his second seat, but De Boer was unable to win a seat. After the 1929 election the leadership of Braat became even more contested. Because of his aggressive strategy against supporters of De Boer the party's organisation was not functioning well. Before the 1933 elections the party changed its name to National Farmers', Horticulturists' and Middle Class Party (\"Nationale Boeren-, Tuinders- en Middenstandspartij\", NBTM) and renewed its party organisations. In this election it had two top candidates Cornelis Vervoorn, a rich farmer, for the Northern provinces Groningen and Drenthe and Arend Braat, who been the party's leader for a long time, for the rest of the Netherlands. Unexpectedly Vervoorn was elected into parliament because he received more votes than Braat. Braat tried to convince Vervoorn to give up his seat, but he refused. In the 1937 election the party lost its seat, this is partially explained by the rise of the National Socialist Movement, which was linked to a strong agrarian organisation \"Agriculture and Society\"\n\nThe party advocated the interests of farmers and tried to fight the disadvantaged position of rural communities. The party saw agriculture as the primary source of wealth of the Netherlands. Its main goal was to ensure a reasonable income for farmers, to expand the farming sector and protect property rights. It wanted to abolish Daylight saving time, reduce taxation and government interference, found a ministry of agriculture, implement an old age pension, improve agricultural education, and end the merger of municipalities. The change of name in 1933 to National Farmers', Horticulturists' and Middle Class Party also implied an ideological reorientation. The party now also oriented towards the middle class in urban areas, while still holding on to its agrarian ideals. Small businesses, the middle class, were seen as the link between farmers and consumers. It added several proposals to its party manifesto such as a cheaper supply of credit and the regulation of advertisements.\n\nThis table shows the Peasants' League's results in elections to the House of Representatives and Senate, as well as the party's political leadership: the fractievoorzitter, is the chair of the parliamentary party and the lijsttrekker is the party's top candidate in the general election, these posts are normally taken by the party's leader. \n\nThe party was particularly strong in the provincial legislatives of Drenthe and Groningen. Where it also held several seats in local legislatives.\n\nThe electorate of party consisted out of farmers form Drenthe, Gelderland, the northern region of North Holland and the southern islands of South Holland.\n\nCompared to the Swedish Farmers' League, which had a similar agrarian agenda, the Peasants' League was very small and uninfluential.\n"}
{"id": "7589172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7589172", "title": "Pension term assurance", "text": "Pension term assurance\n\nPension Term Assurance (PTA) was a form of life insurance available within the United Kingdom. Although PTA had been available for several years, it only became mainstream when changes were made to pension legislation on \"A Day\", 6 April 2006.\nFollowing these changes, PTA became a popular way of buying life insurance, as the premiums received tax relief, effectively making life insurance cheaper for the consumer. \n\nHowever, on 6 December 2006 the UK Government announced an important review of Pension Term Assurance (PTA). The Treasury indicated it was not happy with the PTA products on offer, and effectively stopped any more new PTA business being written. Those with existing policies were allowed to keep them running.\n\nDespite what the name might suggest, Pension Term Assurance did not have to form part of a pension - it merely needed to be taken out at the same time as a new pension was set up.\n\n"}
{"id": "1911414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1911414", "title": "Pensioners' Party (Norway)", "text": "Pensioners' Party (Norway)\n\nThe Pensioners' Party () is a political party in Norway without parliamentary representation. It was founded in 1985 to work for the interests of pensioners, and the party mainly focuses on issues related to health care, taxes and pensioners' issues.\n\nThe party has never been elected to parliament, although former MP Arne Haukvik, who was elected on the Centre Party (Sp) list in 1993, joined the party prior to the 1997 election after he was not renominated by the Sp. The party has representatives in the local councils of some cities and county assemblies.\n"}
{"id": "46208188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46208188", "title": "Queen's Young Leader Award", "text": "Queen's Young Leader Award\n\nQueen's Young Leader Award is an annual award given in recognition of leadership skills by young persons between the ages of 18 and 29. The award is open to selected Commonwealth of Nations to recognize exceptional people or organizations who are making a difference in improving other citizen's lives. The program was established by the Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust, in partnership with Comic Relief and the Royal Commonwealth Society.\n\nThe award was first established in 2014 and initially has been approved to run through 2018. Nominations will re-open each June.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14643643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14643643", "title": "Restrictions on political parties", "text": "Restrictions on political parties\n\nRestrictions on political parties have existed in many countries at various times. In Uganda, for instance, political parties were restricted in their activities from 1986; in the non-party \"Movement\" system instituted by Museveni, political parties continued to exist but could not campaign in elections or field candidates directly (although electoral candidates could belong to political parties). A constitutional referendum cancelled this 19-year ban on multi-party politics in July 2005.\n\nEgypt has been criticized for restricting political party activity. In Europe; Germany, Italy, Turkey, and France have laws allowing the government to ban extremist groups, especially far-right and/or neo-nazi organizations. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14230997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14230997", "title": "Return to the Border", "text": "Return to the Border\n\nReturn To The Border is a 2005 documentary film directed by Zhao Liang about his return to his hometown in China that borders the Yalu river and North Korea. The short film presents deep insight into both the Chinese and North Korean societies and changes that have taken place over the last several decades. First person interviews add depth to the local perceptions of life on both sides of the border. Footage of life along the North Korean border and the mistrust of foreigners by the North Korean people is vividly displayed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39412", "title": "Spoiler effect", "text": "Spoiler effect\n\nThe spoiler effect is the effect of vote splitting between candidates or ballot questions who often have similar ideologies. One spoiler candidate's presence in the election draws votes from a major candidate with similar politics thereby causing a strong opponent of both or several to win. The minor candidate causing this effect is referred to as a \"spoiler\". However, short of any electoral fraud, this presents no grounds for a legal challenge.\n\nThe spoiler effect is a problem in plurality voting systems because they enable a candidate to win with less than half of the vote.\n\nThe problem also exists in instant-runoff voting, though it is reduced, because voters are allowed to rank their candidate choices, with their vote transferring to their second choice if their first choice does not win, and to their third choice if their second choice does not win, and so on. Other preferential voting or ranked ballot voting systems also suffer from variations of the spoiler effect, as they fail the IIA criterion (see §Mathematical definitions).\n\nThe problem does not exist in cardinal voting methods like approval voting, score voting, or majority judgment, since the rating of each candidate is independent of the ratings of other candidates.\n\nThe spoiler candidate takes votes away from a more viable candidate or candidates, a common effect called vote splitting. Where one opposing candidate is ideologically or politically similar and therefore receives far fewer votes than other opposing candidates to the spoiler candidate, then the vote splitting has a spoiler effect.\n\nIn some cases, even though the spoiler candidate cannot win themselves, their influences upon the voters may enable the candidate to determine deliberately which of the more viable candidates wins the election — a situation known as a kingmaker scenario. With a first-past-the-post voting system, this is particularly feasible where a spoiler candidate recommends tactical voting or runs on a false manifesto to bolster the prospects of their secretly preferred winning candidate.\n\nIn a preferential voting system, a voter can feel more inclined to vote for a minor party or independent as their first choice and they can record a preference between the remaining candidates, whether they are in a major or established party or not. For example, voters for a minor left-wing candidate might select a major left-wing candidate as their second choice, thus minimizing the probability that their vote will result in the election of a right-wing candidate, or voters for an independent candidate perceived as libertarian, or simply as the voter prefers that ideology might select a particular libertarian candidate as their second choice, thus minimising the probability of an authoritarian candidate being elected. Approval voting and proportional representation systems can also reduce the spoiler effect.\n\nOne of the main functions of political parties is to mitigate the effect of spoiler-prone voting methods by winnowing on a local level the contenders before the election. Each party nominates at most one candidate per office since each party expects to lose if they nominate more than one. In some cases, a party can expect to \"lose\" by \"suffering a rival elected opponent\" if they nominate more than zero, where two opponents exist and one is considered a candidate they can \"work with\" — a party may prefer the candidate who would win if the party nominates zero.\n\nThus, empirical observations of the frequency of spoiled elections do not provide a good measure of how prone to spoiling a particular voting method is, since the observations omit the relevant information about potential candidates who did not run because of not wanting to spoil the election.\n\nPossible mathematical definitions for the spoiler effect include failure of the independence of irrelevant alternatives (IIA) axiom, and vote splitting.\n\nArrow's impossibility theorem states that rank-voting systems are unable to satisfy the independence of irrelevant alternatives criterion without exhibiting other undesirable properties as a consequence. However, different voting systems are affected to a greater or lesser extent by IIA failure. For example, instant runoff voting is considered to have less frequent IIA failure than First Past the Post (also known as Plurality Rule). The independence of Smith-dominated alternatives (ISDA) criterion is much weaker than IIA; unlike IIA, some ranked-ballot voting methods can pass ISDA.\n\nA possible definition of spoiling based on vote splitting is as follows: Let W denote the candidate who wins the election, and let X and S denote two other candidates. If X would have won had S not been one of the nominees, and if (most of) the voters who prefer S over W also prefer X over W (either S>X>W or X>S>W), then S is a spoiler. Here is an example to illustrate: Suppose the voters' orders of preference are as follows:\n\nThe voters who prefer S over W also prefer X over W. W is the winner under Plurality Rule, Top Two Runoff, and Instant Runoff. If S is deleted from the votes (so that the 33% who ranked S on top now rank X on top) then X would be the winner (by 65% landslide majority). Thus S is a spoiler with these three voting methods.\n\nA 2014 analysis by Philip Bump for \"the Washington Post\" found that 1.5% of general election races in the U.S. from 2006 to 2012 were spoiled by third-party candidates.\n\nHistorically, the Democratic and Republican parties have benefited from the alleged spoiler effect created by the existing U.S. plurality voting system. This benefit is based in the theory that not voting for other parties and for independents and that third parties and independent candidates themselves declining to run, means to avoid \"wasting votes\" or splitting the vote causing an election result not wanted.\n\nThese are third-party candidates who have been accused of denying victory to a major nominee in U.S. Presidential Elections; a notable case among these is the 1912 election, where Progressive Party candidate Theodore Roosevelt won almost 700,000 votes more than did the Republican incumbent, William Howard Taft, and thus it could be said that Taft was the spoiler for Roosevelt in that election. This argument worried Republicans, who, after Woodrow Wilson won the 1912 election, became concerned that Roosevelt might return to split the Republican vote again.\n\nIn 1968, George Wallace ran for president as the American Independent Party's nominee. He received numerous votes from Southern demographics that typically voted for Democratic candidates, thereby undercutting the candidacy of that election's Democratic nominee, Hubert Humphrey.\n\nThe 2000 U.S. Presidential election is often cited as an example of the spoiler effect. In that election, Al Gore, the Democratic candidate, received more popular votes than George W. Bush, the Republican candidate, but lost in the electoral college. In the state of Florida, the final certified vote count showed Bush with just 537 more votes than Gore. Because Bush defeated Gore in Florida, he won the state, received more votes in the electoral college, and became president of the United States.\n\nGore supporters argued that had candidate Ralph Nader, a liberal, not run in the election, the majority of the 97,421 votes he received in Florida would have been cast for Gore. Thus, they contend that Nader's candidacy spoiled the election for Gore by taking away enough votes from Gore in Florida to swing the election to Bush. Their argument is bolstered by a poll of Nader voters, asking them for whom they would have voted had Nader not run, which said 45 percent of Nader voters would have voted for Gore, 27 percent would have voted for Bush, and the rest would not have voted.\n\nNader himself and many of his supporters argued that most Nader voters would either have chosen another minor party candidate or abstained from voting, had Nader not been on the ballot. It should also be noted that all other third party candidates on the ballot in Florida received more than the 537 vote difference between Bush and Gore. Still, some observers began to refer to the spoiler effect as the \"Nader effect\" after the 2000 election. A 2006 study found that at least 40% of Nader voters in Florida would have voted for Bush if Nader had not run, while the other 60% would have voted for Gore. The study concluded that this 60% \"did indeed spoil the 2000 presidential election for Gore but only because of highly idiosyncratic circumstances, namely, Florida’s extreme closeness.\"\n\n\nIn the German presidential election of 1925, Communist Ernst Thälmann refused to withdraw his candidacy though it was extremely unlikely he would win the election and the leadership of the Communist International urged him not to run. In the second (and final) round of balloting, Thälmann won 1,931,151 votes or 6.4 percent. Centrist candidate Wilhelm Marx won 13,751,605 or 45.3 percent. And independent candidate Paul von Hindenburg, endorsed by the German nationalists, nationalist liberals, and Nazis, won 14,655,641 votes or 48.3 percent. If most of Thälmann's supporters had voted for Marx instead of the right-wing nationalist Hindenburg, Marx would have won the election. The election of 1925 had great significance because in 1933 Hindenburg appointed Adolf Hitler as chancellor and then died the following year, giving Hitler unchecked control of the German government. By contrast, Marx, who was dedicated to republican democracy, lived until 1946.\n\nIn New Zealand, there have been two notable cases of the spoiler effect. In the 1984 general election, the free-market New Zealand Party deliberately ran for office in order to weaken support for the incumbent Prime Minister Robert Muldoon. Later on, the 1993 general election saw the New Zealand Labour Party's vote split by The Alliance, which has been attributed to the vagaries of the first past the post electoral system. In response to these problems, New Zealand has since adopted the mixed-member proportional voting system.\n\nLikewise, in France, the 2002 presidential elections have been cited as a case of the spoiler effect: the numerous left-wing candidates, such as Christiane Taubira and Jean-Pierre Chevènement, both from political parties allied to the French Socialist Party, or the three candidates from Trotskyist parties, which altogether totalled around 20%, have been charged with making Lionel Jospin, the P.S. candidate, lose the two-round election in the first round to the benefit of Jean-Marie Le Pen, who was separated from Jospin by only 0.68%. Some also cite the case of some districts in which although the right and the far right had more than half of the votes, the left still won the election; they accuse the left of profiting from their split.\n\nIn Hong Kong it is a very common for the Pro-democracy camp, and it suffered greatly in many election including the Hong Kong legislative election, 2016 and Hong Kong local elections, 2015. Usually for Pro-Democracy supporters, they have way different ideologies and suffer from factional disputes, which exacerbates after the advent of localist groups. Though have wider aggregate support, the seats earned is even less than the Pro-Beijing camp, like in Kowloon East, Pro-Democracy got over 55% ballots but eventually earn only 2 seats out of 5.\n\nIn sports, the \"spoiler effect\" refers to a similar phenomenon, in which a team or individual has been eliminated from the possibility of reaching the postseason, but affects the playoffs or finals anyway by beating a more successful team or individual before the end of the season. For example, a baseball team that is ten games out of contention for a playoff berth could defeat a team that has a playoff berth several times. This could cause the would-be playoff team to be passed by in the rankings by the team directly behind it before the final positions at the end of the season are determined.\n\nIn individual participant sports, such as automobile racing, a racer with no hope of obtaining a championship title could prevent a racer with a chance at the title by defeating them, preventing the contending racer from earning critical points toward winning the title. Instead, the title would go to the contender directly behind him in the rankings, provided that second-tier racer is close enough to surpass and they win their own competition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55895295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55895295", "title": "Strekoza", "text": "Strekoza\n\nStrekoza () was a Russian weekly magazine of humour and satire established in Saint Petersburg in 1875 by the publisher German Kornfeld. Its original editor-in-chief was Nikolai Bogdanov who left in 1879 to be succeeded by Ippolit Vasilevsky (1879-1905). In its heyday its circulation peaked at 9 thousand. \n\nInitially seen by many as a successor to the leading Russian satirical magazine \"Iskra\" which had been closed in 1873, \"Strekoza\" attracted many authors, associated with its radical predecessor, including Pyotr Bykov, Gavriil Zhulev, Nikolai Leykin, Aleksey Pleshcheyev, Pyotr Sergeyenko and Liodor Palmin. Still, the political climate in Russia by this time had changed, and the magazine adopted a centrist, liberal stance, choosing not to conflict with authorities, even if Vasilevsky, its most active contributor, rarely missed an opportunity to fence with his conservative opponents, notably Mikhail Katkov and Prince Meshchersky.\n\nAmong the authors whose work occasionally appeared in \"Strekoza\", were Nikolai Leskov, Yakov Polonsky, Dmitry Grigorovich and Viktor Bilibin. It was in \"Strekoza\" that in 1879 (No. 51 issue) Anton Chekhov debuted with a piece called \"The Mayor's Archeological Report\" (Археологический рапорт городничего), followed in March 1880 (No.10 issue) by \"The Don Landowner's Stepan Vladimirovich's Letter to His Learned Neighbor Dr. Friedrich\" (better known under its shortened title \"A Letter to a Learned Neighbor\"). In all, ten Chekhov's stories appeared here in 1880, then two more in 1883-1884. \n\nIn 1908 \"Strekoza\" folded. It was re-launched in 1915 by the publisher Isaak Bogelman, and lasted until 1918. \n"}
{"id": "15115376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15115376", "title": "Superior orders", "text": "Superior orders\n\nSuperior orders, often known as the Nuremberg defense, lawful orders or by the German phrase Befehl ist Befehl (\"an order is an order\"), is a plea in a court of law that a person—whether a member of the military, law enforcement, a firefighting force, or the civilian population—not be held guilty for actions ordered by a superior officer or an official.\nThe superior orders plea is often regarded as the complement to command responsibility.\n\nOne of the most noted uses of this plea, or defense, was by the accused in the 1945–1946 Nuremberg trials, such that it is also called the \"Nuremberg defense\". The Nuremberg Trials were a series of military tribunals, held by the main victorious Allied forces after World War II, most notable for the prosecution of prominent members of the political, military, and economic leadership of the defeated Nazi Germany. These trials, under the London Charter of the International Military Tribunal that set them up, established that the defense of superior orders was no longer enough to escape punishment, but merely enough to lessen punishment.\n\nHistorically, the plea of superior orders has been used both before and after the Nuremberg Trials, with a notable lack of consistency in various rulings.\n\nApart from the specific plea of superior orders, discussions about how the general concept of superior orders ought to be used, or ought not to be used, have taken place in various arguments, rulings and statutes that have not necessarily been part of \"after the fact\" war crimes trials, strictly speaking. Nevertheless, these discussions and related events help to explain the evolution of the specific plea of superior orders and the history of its usage.\n\nIn 1474, in the trial of Peter von Hagenbach by an ad hoc tribunal of the Holy Roman Empire, the first known \"international\" recognition of commanders' obligations to act lawfully occurred. Hagenbach offered the defense that he was just following orders, but this defense was rejected and he was convicted of war crimes and beheaded.\n\nSpecifically, Hagenbach was put on trial for atrocities committed under his command but not by him directly, during the occupation of Breisach. This was the earliest modern European example of the doctrine of command responsibility. Since he was convicted for crimes \"he as a knight was deemed to have a duty to prevent\", Hagenbach defended himself by arguing that he was only following orders from the Duke of Burgundy, Charles the Bold, to whom the Holy Roman Empire had given Breisach.\n\nDuring the Second Boer War, three Australian officers (Morant, Handcock and Witton) were charged and tried for a number of murders, including those of prisoners who had surrendered. A significant part of the defense was that they were acting under orders issued by Lord Kitchener to \"take no prisoners\". However, these orders were verbal, were denied by Kitchener and his staff, and could not be validated in court, resulting in a guilty verdict against all three men.\n\nOn June 4, 1921, the legal doctrine of superior orders was used during the German Military Trials that took place after World War I: One of the most famous of these trials was the matter of Lieutenant Karl Neumann, who was a U-boat captain responsible for the sinking of the hospital ship the \"Dover Castle\". Even though he frankly admitted to having sunk the ship, he stated that he had done so on the basis of orders supplied to him by the German Admiralty and so he could not be held liable for his actions. The Reichsgericht, then Germany's supreme court, acquitted him, accepting the defense of superior orders as a grounds to escape criminal liability. Further, that very court had this to say in the matter of superior orders:\n\n... that all civilized nations recognize the principle that a subordinate is covered by the orders of his superiors.\n\nMany accused of war crimes were acquitted on a similar defense, creating immense dissatisfaction among the Allies. That has been thought to be one of the main causes for the specific removal of this defense in the August 8, 1945 London Charter of the International Military Tribunal. The removal has been attributed to the actions of Robert H. Jackson, a Justice of the United States Supreme Court, who was appointed Chief Prosecutor at the Nuremberg trials.\n\nOn October 8, 1945, Anton Dostler was the first German general to be tried for war crimes by a US military tribunal at the Royal Palace in Caserta. He was accused of ordering the execution of 15 captured US soldiers of Operation Ginny II in Italy in March 1944. He admitted to ordering the execution but said that he could not be held responsible because he was following orders from his superiors. The execution of the prisoners of war in Italy, ordered by Dostler, was an implementation of Adolf Hitler's Commando Order of 1942, which required the immediate execution of all Allied commandos, whether they were in proper uniforms or not, without trial if they were apprehended by German forces. The tribunal rejected the defense of Superior Orders and found Dostler guilty of war crimes. He was sentenced to death and executed by a firing squad on December 1, 1945, in Aversa.\n\nThe Dostler case became a precedent for the principle that was used in the Nuremberg Trials of German generals, officials, and Nazi leaders beginning in November 1945: using superior orders as a defense does not relieve officers from responsibility of carrying out illegal orders and their liability to be punished in court. The principle was codified in Principle IV of the Nuremberg Principles, and similar principles were found in sections of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nIn 1945 and 1946, during the Nuremberg trials the issue of superior orders again arose. Before the end of World War II, the Allies suspected such a defense might be employed and issued the London Charter of the International Military Tribunal (IMT), which explicitly stated that following an unlawful order is not a valid defense against charges of war crimes.\n\nThus, under Nuremberg Principle IV, \"defense of superior orders\" is not a defense for war crimes, although it might be a mitigating factor that could influence a sentencing authority to lessen the penalty. Nuremberg Principle IV states:\n\nThe fact that a person acted pursuant to order of his Government or of a superior does not relieve him from responsibility under international law, provided a moral choice was in fact possible to him.\n\nDuring the Nuremberg Trials, Wilhelm Keitel, Alfred Jodl and other defendants unsuccessfully used the defense. They contended that while they knew Adolf Hitler's orders were unlawful, or at least had reason to believe they were unlawful, their place was not to question, but to obey. They claimed they were compelled to do so by the \"Führerprinzip\" (leader principle) that governed the Nazi regime, as well as their own oath of allegiance to Hitler. In most cases, the tribunal found that the defendants' offenses were so egregious that obedience to superior orders could not be considered a mitigating factor.\n\nThe German military law since 1872 said that while the superior is (\"solely\") responsible for his order, the subordinate \"is\" to be punished for his participation in it if he either transgressed the order on his own account, or if he knew the order to be criminal. For many of their offenses (e.g., killing a non-combatant without trial) the Nazis did not bother to (or were too reluctant to) legalize them by a formal law, so, the judges at Nuremberg could have argued that the defendants heavily broke German law to begin with. However, this line of argumentation was only in very limited amounts argued on in the trials.\n\nThe trials gained so much attention that the \"superior orders defense\" has subsequently become interchangeable with the label \"Nuremberg defense\", a legal defense that essentially states that defendants were \"only following orders\" (\"Befehl ist Befehl\", literally \"an order is an order\") and so are not responsible for their crimes.\n\nHowever, US General Telford Taylor, who had served as Chief Counsel for the United States during the Nuremberg trials, employed the term \"Nuremberg defense\" in a different sense. He applied it not to the defense offered by the Nuremberg defendants but to a justification put forward by those who refused to take part in military action (specifically America's involvement in the Vietnam War) that they believed to be criminal.\n\nThe defense of superior orders again arose in the 1961 trial of Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann in Israel, as well as the trial of Alfredo Astiz of Argentina, the latter responsible for a large number of disappearances and kidnappings that took place during that country's last civil-military dictatorship (1976-1983), which forced a State-sponsored terrorism upon the population, resulting in what (to several sources) amounted to a genocide.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s the use of \"Befehlsnotstand\" (), a concept in which a certain action is ordered which violates law but where the refusal to carry out such an order would lead to drastic consequences for the person refusing to carry out the order, as a defence in war crimes trials in Germany was quite successful as it protected the accused from punishment. With the formation of the Central Office of the State Justice Administrations for the Investigation of National Socialist Crimes this changed as a historical research by the organisation revealed that refusing an unlawful order did not result in punishment.\n\nIn 1957, the Israeli legal system established the concept of a 'blatantly illegal order' to explain when a military order (or in general, a security-related order) should be followed, and when an order \"must not\" be followed. The concept is explained in 1957 by the infamous Kafr Qasim massacre ruling.\n\nThe Kafr Qasim trial considered for the first time the issue of when Israeli security personnel are required to disobey illegal orders. The judges decided that soldiers do not have the obligation to examine each and every order in detail as to its legality, nor were they entitled to disobey orders merely on a subjective feeling that they might be illegal. On the other hand, some orders were manifestly illegal, and these must be disobeyed. Judge Benjamin Halevy's words, still much-quoted today, were that \"The distinguishing mark of a manifestly illegal order is that above such an order should fly, like a black flag, a warning saying: 'Prohibited!'\"\n\nCaptain (res.) Itai Haviv, a signatory of the 'courage to refuse' letter of 2002 tells of his unhappiness about his service for the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) and says \"For 35 years a black flag was proudly hanging over our heads, but we have refused to see it\". A translation note explains the \"Black Flag\" principle but adds \"In the 45 years that passed since [the ruling], not even a single soldier was protected by a military court for refusing to obey a command because it was a 'black flag' command.\"\n\nFollowing the My Lai Massacre in 1968, the defense was employed during the court martial of William Calley. Some have argued that the outcome of the My Lai Massacre courts martial was a reversal of the laws of war that were set forth in the Nuremberg and Tokyo War Crimes Tribunals. Secretary of the Army Howard Callaway was quoted in the \"New York Times\" as stating that Calley's sentence was reduced because Calley believed that what he did was a part of his orders.\n\nIn \"United States v. Keenan\", the accused was found guilty of murder after he obeyed an order to shoot and kill an elderly Vietnamese citizen. The Court of Military Appeals held that \"the justification for acts done pursuant to orders does not exist if the order was of such a nature that a man of ordinary sense and understanding would know it to be illegal\". The soldier who gave the order, Corporal Luczko, was acquitted by reason of insanity.\n\nThe provision containing the superior orders defense can be found as a defense to international crimes in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. (The Rome Statute was agreed upon in 1998 as the foundational document of the International Criminal Court, established to try those individuals accused of serious international crimes.) Article 33, titled \"Superior orders and prescription of law\",\nstates:\n\nThere are two interpretations of this Article:\n\n\nNuremberg Principle IV, and its reference to an individual's responsibility, was at issue in Canada in the case of \"Hinzman v. Canada.\" Jeremy Hinzman was a U.S. Army deserter who claimed refugee status in Canada as a conscientious objector, one of many Iraq War resisters. Hinzman's lawyer, (at that time Jeffry House), had previously raised the issue of the legality of the Iraq War as having a bearing on their case. The Federal Court ruling was released on March 31, 2006, and denied the refugee status claim. In the decision, Justice Anne L. Mactavish addressed the issue of personal responsibility:\nAn individual must be involved at the policy-making level to be culpable for a crime against peace ... the ordinary foot soldier is not expected to make his or her own personal assessment as to the legality of a conflict. Similarly, such an individual cannot be held criminally responsible for fighting in support of an illegal war, assuming that his or her personal war-time conduct is otherwise proper.\nOn Nov 15, 2007, a quorum of the Supreme Court of Canada made of Justices Michel Bastarache, Rosalie Abella, and Louise Charron refused an application to have the Court hear the case on appeal, without giving reasons.\n\nIn June 2006, during the Iraq War, Ehren Watada refused to go to Iraq on account of his belief that the Iraq war was a crime against peace (waging a war of aggression for territorial aggrandizement), which he believed could make him liable for prosecution under the command responsibility doctrine. In this case, the judge ruled that soldiers, in general, are not responsible for determining whether the order to go to war itself is a lawful order – but are only responsible for those orders resulting in a specific application of military force, such as an order to shoot civilians, or to treat POWs inconsistently with the Geneva Conventions. This is consistent with the Nuremberg defense, as only the civilian and military principals of the Axis were charged with crimes against peace, while subordinate military officials were not so charged. It is often the case in modern warfare that while subordinate military officials are not held liable for their actions, neither are their superiors, as was the case with Calley's immediate superior Captain Ernest Medina.\n\nBased on this principle, international law developed the concept of individual criminal liability for war crimes, which resulted in the current doctrine of command responsibility.\n\nNote: Yellow rows indicate the use of the \"precise\" plea of Superior Orders in a war crimes trial - as opposed to events regarding the \"general\" concept of Superior Orders.\n\nThe superior orders defense is still used with the following rationale in the following scenario: An \"order\" may come from one's superior at the level of \"national\" law. But according to Nuremberg Principle IV, such an order is sometimes \"unlawful\" according to \"international\" law. Such an \"unlawful order\" presents a legal dilemma from which there is no legal escape: On one hand, a person who \"refuses\" such an unlawful order faces the possibility of legal punishment \"at the national level\" for refusing orders. On the other hand, a person who \"accepts\" such an unlawful order faces the possibility of legal punishment \"at the international level\" (e.g. Nuremberg Trials) for committing unlawful acts.\n\nNuremberg Principle II responds to that dilemma by stating: \"The fact that internal law does not impose a penalty for an act which constitutes a crime under international law does not relieve the person who committed the act from responsibility under international law.\"\n\nThe above scenario might present a \"legal\" dilemma, but Nuremberg Principle IV speaks of \"a \"moral\" choice\" as being just as important as \"legal\" decisions: It states: \"The fact that a person acted pursuant to order of his Government or of a superior does not relieve him from responsibility under international law, provided a \"moral\" choice was in fact possible to him\".\n\nIn \"moral choices\" or ethical dilemmas an ethical decision is often made by appealing to a \"higher ethic\" such as ethics in religion or secular ethics. One such \"higher ethic\" found in many religions and in secular ethics, is the \"ethic of reciprocity\", or \"Golden Rule\". It states that one has a right to just treatment, and therefore has a reciprocal responsibility to ensure justice for others. \"Higher ethics\", such as those, could be used by an individual to solve the \"legal\" dilemma presented by the superior orders defense.\n\nAnother argument against the use of the superior orders defense is that it does not follow the traditional legal definitions and categories established under criminal law. Under criminal law, a principal is any actor who is primarily responsible for a criminal offense. Such an actor is distinguished from others who may also be subject to criminal liability as accomplices, accessories or conspirators. (See also the various degrees of liability: absolute liability, strict liability, and mens rea.)\n\nThe common argument in this matter, is that every individual under orders should be bound by law to immediately relieve of command a superior officer who gives an obviously unlawful order to their troops. This represents a rational check to be put in place versus organizational command hierarchies.\n\nNuremberg Principle IV, the international law that counters the superior orders defense, is legally supported by the jurisprudence found in certain articles in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that deal indirectly with conscientious objection. It is also supported by the principles found in paragraph 171 of the Handbook on Procedures and Criteria for Determining Refugee Status, which was issued by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Those principles deal with the conditions under which conscientious objectors can apply for refugee status in another country if they face persecution in their own country for refusing to participate in an illegal war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29779487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29779487", "title": "Sustainable Australia", "text": "Sustainable Australia\n\nSustainable Australia (originally the Sustainable Population Party and officially registered as #Sustainable Australia) is an Australian political party formed in 2010, that describes itself as being \"from the political centre\" and aiming \"to secure an economically, environmentally and socially sustainable Australia\". It has prioritised four issues: \"secure jobs via a more diverse economy, \"affordable housing for first home buyers and renters\", \"better planning to stop over-development\" and \"a sustainable environment and population\".\n\nThe party has been registered federally since 2010. In 2016 it also registered in the Australian Capital Territory, and contested the 2016 Australian Capital Election. In 2018 it also registered in Victoria for the 2018 state election and NSW for the 2019 state election.\n\nSustainable Australia describes itself as a centrist party with strong focus on environment, resource levels, infrastructure, and population. It criticises excessive urban densification and sprawl. It strongly supports public transport; but in the 2016 Australian Capital Territory election it opposed the proposed light rail, calling it “a Trojan horse for over-development”.\n\nThe Party’s website lists over 20 policies, addressing a variety of topics like Animals and Biodiversity, Economy and Jobs, Education, Environment, Foreign Investment, Housing Affordability, Sustainable Population and Immigration, and Transport.\n\nSustainable Australia is not a one-issue party, but its policies clearly call for a significant slowing of Australia’s rapid population growth, which is a point of distinction from the current policies of the Australian Greens. In this it more closely resembles the Australian Democrats, among centrist Australian political parties, which traditionally sought to keep immigration numbers per year close to emigration per year.\n\nSustainable Australia supports a non-discriminatory permanent immigration intake of around 70,000 persons per year, down from the 2015 level of over 200,000 per year. Its website states that 70,000 is closer to Australia’s long-term traditional average intake.\n\nIn 2010 the party opposed Kevin Rudd's belief in a big Australia, saying that a \"big Australia\" population would be \"disastrous\", is \"way beyond [Australia's] long-term carrying capacity\" and that \"population growth is not inevitable\". Queensland coordinator Aaron Webber \"became alarmed when hearing of Kevin Rudd's push for a 'Big Australia'\". The party claims that \"'stable population' policies would mean a more sustainable 26 million at 2050, not the Labor/Liberal 'big Australia' plan for 36 million and rising.\" The party ran a candidate in the Griffith by-election, for Kevin Rudd's old seat.\n\nSustainable Australia used to be called the Sustainable Population Party. Its current name was registered with the Australian Electoral Commission on 18 January 2016. \nThe party missed out on registration for the 2010 federal election by several days, but leader William Bourke ran unsuccessfully for the Senate in New South Wales on an independent ticket with poet Mark O'Connor. The party was registered shortly after the election on 23 September 2010.\nThe party was registered as \"Stable Population Party of Australia\", but on 28 February 2014 the Australian Electoral Commission approved a name-change to the \"Sustainable Population Party\". On 19 January 2016, the AEC approved a further name change to \"#Sustainable Australia\" (including a hash symbol).\n\nThe party ran at least two Senate candidates in every state and territory in the 2013 Australian federal election and many local candidates also. The Party ran a candidate in the Griffith by-election and also contested the April 2014 re-run in Western Australia of the 2013 federal Senate elections. The party endorsed a local candidate for the 2015 Canning by-election—Angela Smith—an environmental scientist and resident of Canning. In September 2015 the party campaigned on a number of key issues including education, paid jobs, infrastructure, health care, renewable energy and housing affordability.\n\nIn the North Sydney by-election, 2015 its candidate and founder William Bourke got one of the party's best results with over 2,000 votes.\n\nThe party has been involved in Glenn Druery's Minor Party Alliance.\n\nIn the 2016 federal election, Sustainable Australia was led temporarily by ex-Labor Minister for Sustainability, Andrew McNamara. The party fielded two senate candidates in each of the Australian Capital Territory, New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria, as well as a candidate in the Division of Sydney for the House of Representatives.\n\nThe party received media attention in 2017 when Australian entrepreneur Dick Smith joined the party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22362397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22362397", "title": "Total liberationism", "text": "Total liberationism\n\nTotal liberationism is a political movement that combines anarchism with a commitment to animal and earth liberation. Whilst more conventional approaches to anarchist politics have often focused primarily on opposing the state and capitalism, the struggle for total liberation is additionally concerned with opposing all additional forms of human oppression, as well as the oppression of nonhuman animals and ecosystems. Proponents of total liberation typically espouse a holistic and intersectional revolutionary strategy aimed at using direct action to dismantle all forms of domination and social hierarchy, common examples of which include the state, capitalism, patriarchy, racism, heterosexism, cissexism, disablism, ageism, speciesism, and ecological domination.\n\nFollowing a period of general inactivity after the Second World War, anarchism reemerged as a force in global politics during the 1960s. This new era of anarchist struggle was distinguished, however, by its adoption of a range of concerns - such as feminism, anticolonialism, queer liberation, antispeciesism, and ecology - that were previously of little or no concern for most anarchists. More specifically, the involvement by anarchists in the animal and earth liberation movements was characterized, in part, by the rising popularity of veganism within radical circles (something that has been grounded in concerns for both animal rights and environmentalism), as well as the formation of direct action groups such as the Hunt Saboteurs Association, Earth First!, the Animal Liberation Front, and the Earth Liberation Front. The concept of total liberation then began to be used by anarchists during the 1990s in an explicit attempt to clarify important connections between all forms of oppression, and to situate the often isolated political movements against them within a single overall struggle. Moreover, a commitment to total liberation is, beyond its emergence from the historical development of the anarchist movement, also typically grounded in a concern for contemporary schools of political thought such as intersectionality, antispeciesism, ecofeminism, deep ecology, and social ecology. As David Pellow summarises:\n\nThe concept of total liberation stems from a determination to understand and combat all forms of inequality and oppression. I propose that it comprises four pillars: (1) an ethic of justice and anti-oppression inclusive of humans, nonhuman animals, and ecosystems; (2) anarchism; (3) anti-capitalism; and (4) an embrace of direct action tactics.\n"}
{"id": "33257966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33257966", "title": "Traffic barricade", "text": "Traffic barricade\n\nA traffic barricade is a type of barricade fitted with flashing lights and used to block excavations or road construction or other safety-related purposes. Formerly made of wood, or wood and steel, many now have structural members made wholly of plastic or composite materials.\nType I, II and III barricades are commonly used for road detours and closings where vehicles are present. A-Frame barricades are more typically seen where pedestrian traffic control is needed or used on low speed roads.\n\nIn addition to the more traditional traffic barricades mentioned above there are several other categories of barricades that get used quite regularly for traffic channelization including concrete barriers, jersey barriers (may be water filled or plastic), traffic barrels or drums and vertical panels. Depending on space and need all of these categories are listed as acceptable barricade devices in the MUTCD (Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices). Traffic barrels and vertical panels are often used in areas where there is less horizontal space but they serve the same purpose - to help control the flow of traffic and protect workers.\n\nOne large multi-state company providing traffic barricade services was Houston-based, Highway Technologies, Inc., a US construction company that maintained offices in 33 cities. \nIt filed for bankruptcy in May 2013, laying off 740 of its 825 employees.\nThe company was founded in approximately 1983.\n"}
{"id": "2832809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2832809", "title": "Union of Councils for Soviet Jews", "text": "Union of Councils for Soviet Jews\n\nUnion of Councils for Jews in the Former Soviet Union (UCSJ) is a non-governmental organization that reports on the human rights conditions in countries throughout Eastern Europe and Central Asia, exposing hate crimes and assisting communities in need. UCSJ uses grassroots-based monitoring and advocacy, as well as humanitarian aid, to protect the political and physical safety of Jewish people and other minorities in the region. UCSJ is based in Washington, D.C., and is linked to other organizations such as the Moscow Helsinki Group. It has offices in Russia and Ukraine and has a collegial relationship with human rights groups that were founded by the UCSJ in the countries of the former Soviet Union.\n\nThe UCSJ was formed in 1970 as part of the Movement to Free Soviet Jewry, a response to the oppression of Jews in the Soviet Union and other countries of the Soviet bloc.\n\nActivities of the UCSJ include reporting on the human rights situation in countries of the former Soviet Union, assisting communities in need, providing support for asylum seekers and migrants, and exposing human rights violations and hate crimes, whether directed against Jews or other minorities in the region, such as Romani or Muslims. According to a UCSJ report in 2013 approximately 1.71 million Jews remained in the post-Soviet states at that time. The reports it produces on the situation in various countries are often presented to the US State Department.\n\nThe 2015 leadership of the UCSJ includes Larry Lerner as President, Dr. Leonid Stonov as Director, and Meylakh Shekhet as Director of the L'viv Bureau. Former presidents include Yosef Abramowitz, Pamela Braun Cohen, and Morey Schapira. Dr. Leonid Stonov has been involved with the UCSJ since before his emigration to the U.S. in 1990, when he was a prominent Refusenik and author of the first emigration law in Soviet history, which was presented to the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union in 1989. David Waksberg served as National Vice President during the 1980s.\n\nUCSJ has received funding from the European Commission of the European Union as part of a three-year project designed to combat racism, antisemitism and islamophobia in Eastern European countries.\n\nToday, UCSJ supporters and contributors include individuals around the world who are concerned about human rights transgressions, and the fate of the 1.71 million Jews who still reside in countries of the former Soviet Union. Those wishing to contribute have four options.\n\nNineteen members of the State Duma from Motherland and the Communist party have signed a letter demanding Jewish organizations be banned in Russia. The letter referred to Judaism as a religion promoting ethnic hatred and made reference to the Kitzur Shulchan Aruch. In that regard, UCSJ made the following statement:\n\n\"The best example of how far some members of the national parliament are willing to go to demonize minorities came in January 2005, when 19 members of the State Duma from Motherland and the Communist party signed an open letter to the Prosecutor General’s office demanding that Jewish groups be banned in Russia. The letter referred to Judaism as a “Satanic” religion and made reference to the medieval Blood Libel (the belief that Jews ritually murder Christian children during Passover and use their blood to bake matzo). Russian Jewish groups—who have long ago grown accustomed to more modern-day antisemitic accusations of controlling the media, the financial system, etc.—reacted with horror to this intellectual descent into the barbarism of the Dark Ages\".\n\nAn investigation was launched.\nThe Prosecutor dropped charges of antisemitism against Duma deputies.\n\nFormer UCSJ president Micah H. Naftalin condemned the conviction of journalist Boris Stomakhin, who was accused of hate speech:\n\"This sentence exposes the underlying hypocrisy of the Russian government's half-hearted struggle against extremist groups and hate speech.\" \"This month alone, the FSB refused to investigate the distribution of a neo-Nazi hit list containing the names and addresses of human rights activists whom the authors 'sentenced to death,' a publisher of a newspaper in Ulyanovsk who publicly called for the murder of Jews got a suspended sentence, and three youths who broke the jaw and fractured the skull of the Minister of Culture of the Kabardino-Balkaria Republic while screaming racist slogans were sentenced to just six months to a year in prison. You don't have to agree with Mr. Stomakhin's radical, though non-violent, views on Chechnya to see that his sentence was disproportionate and unjust.\"\n\nThe UCSJ alerted the public to the revival of the cult of Russian Orthodox Church child saint Gavriil Belostoksky and related blood libel accusations in Belarus, after the Belarusian state TV showed a film alleging that his ritual murder was a true story.\n\nA branch of the UCSJ was closed by the government of Belarus as part of what many observers saw as a wider crackdown on political dissent in the region. (\"main article - Human rights in Belarus\")\n\nSergei Magnitsky was a lawyer in Moscow ford an international financial company. He advised the Russian authorities that the tax agents he was dealing with was stealing US$320 million from Russia. He was arrested, tortured and eventually killed by the Russian authorities. The Russian Human rights NGOs wanted to support a bill in the US Congress to punish those responsible for his torture and murder by denying them visas to the US and freezing their assets in the US. The UCSJ supported the legislation at the behest of the Russian NGOs and put together a coalition of international religious freedom organizations to petition the Congress. The State department fought against the legislation and the Jewish establishment organizations opposed the bills, until they saw that it was going to pass and then publicly supported the bills. The Magnitsky Act has been used by President Obama to punish Russia for violations of human rights today.\n\nUCSJ was given a grant by US Ambassador to Moscow to bring together Russian pro-democracy human rights with their US counterparts to aid the NGOs in their work.\n\nThe National Endowment for Democracy (NED) granted UCSJ grants to monitor human rights violations and anti-semitism and the actions of the Russian Judicial system. The UCSJ sponsored a trip to the Ukraine when the Russians were trying to take over Eastern Ukraine by meeting with high Ukrainian government officials to see if the UCSJ could help.\n\nMeylach Schochetl heads the UCSJ office in Lviv. In addition to running a soup kitchen for the poor of Lviv and running Jewish services for the Jews of Lviv, he has taken on the task of working to protect Jewish historical sites and to fight for human rights. He has been successful in lawsuits against the authorities in Lviv to preserve cemetery sites and destroyed synagogues from commercialization. He has also been successful in pursuing actions against officials who violated the human rights of individuals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11526222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11526222", "title": "United Nations Development Group", "text": "United Nations Development Group\n\nThe United Nations Development Group (UNDG) is a consortium of many United Nations agencies, created by the Secretary-General of the United Nations in 1997 to improve the effectiveness of UN development activities at the country level.\n\nIts strategic priorities are to respond to the Triennial comprehensive policy review (TCPR) – which became in 2008 the Quadrennial comprehensive policy review (QCPR) – and global development priorities, as well as to ensure the UN development system becomes more internally focused and coherent. The UNDG strategic priorities give direction to UNDG members' efforts at the global, regional and country level to facilitate a step change in the quality and impact of UN support at the country level. Currently, the UNDG is one of the main UN actors involved in the development of the Post-2015 Development Agenda.\n\nUNDG brings together 32 UN agencies and groups, plus five observers working on various development issues. \n\nBy 1997, there were calls within the United Nations to draw all UN agencies working on development issues together; for the many UN Development Programmes, Funds, and Specialised Agencies were encroaching upon each other's activities. This was especially so with the Delivering as One initiative. An initial proposal was to merge UNICEF, the World Food Programme and the UNFPA into the UNDP. Finally, then Secretary-General Kofi Annan worked to form the UNDG and won praise from then UNDP Administrator James Speth.\n\n\n\nThe UNDG is one of the three pillars of the UN system Chief Executives Board (CEB), which furthers coordination and cooperation on a wide range of substantive and management issues facing UN system organizations. The CEB brings the executive heads of UN organizations together on a regular basis under the chairmanship of the Secretary-General. Within the CEB structure, the High-Level Committee on Management works on system-wide administrative and management issues, the High-Level Committee on Programmes considers global policy issues, while the United Nations Development Group deals with operational activities for development with a focus on country-level work.\n\nThe Administrator of the UN Development Programme (UNDP) chairs the UNDG. The UNDG Chair reports to the Secretary-General and the CEB on progress in implementing the group’s work plan, and on the management of the Resident Coordinator System.\nThe United Nations Economic and Social Council and the United Nations General Assembly provide oversight and mandates for the UNDG. The UNDG is overseen by the Economic and Financial Committee (Second Committee) of the General Assembly. The UNDG has provided reports such as the Comprehensive statistical analysis of the financing of operational activities for development of the UN system for 2006 and the Comprehensive statistical analysis of the financing of operational activities for development of the UN system for 2007 to the General Assembly.\n\nThe UNDG's chairperson is the UNDP's Administrator. Since its inception, the following have been the Chair of the UNDG:\n\nUnder Kemal Derviş' leadership, an \"Advisory Group\", which provides the UNDG Chair with advice and guidance on managing the operational dimensions of the UNDG and the Resident Coordinator System, was established. In 2009, the non-rotational members of the advisory group were: the FAO, ILO, UNDP, UNESCO, UNFPA, UNICEF, UNHCR, WFP, WHO and UNIDO. The rotational members (for a period of one year, as of 2016) are: the UNCTAD (representing UNEP, UN Habitat and UNODC) and the Economic and Social Commission for Western Africa (representing all five Regional Commissions).\n\nThe UN Development Operations Coordination Office (DOCO) is a key component within the UNDG, promoting social and economic progress by providing support. It was key part of UNDG's formation in 1997, uniting the UN system and improve the quality of its development assistance. Coordination leads to more strategic UN support for national plans and priorities, makes operations more efficient, reduces transaction costs for governments, and ultimately helps people attain the Millennium Development Goals and other internationally agreed development objectives. At present is the Secretariat and technical and advisory support unit of the UNDG. It brings together the UN development system to promote change and innovation to deliver together on sustainable development. DOCO works under the leadership of the UNDG Chair and guidance of the UNDG. The team provides field evidence to inform policy, facilitates the achievement of shared results, and promotes excellence in UN leadership and coordination. The core objective is a relevant and impactful UN contribution to development.\n\nchua viem am dao\n\n"}
{"id": "31964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31964", "title": "United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees", "text": "United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees\n\nThe Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR; ) (Also known as is the UN Refugee Agency) is a United Nations programme with the mandate to protect refugees, forcibly displaced communities and stateless people, and assist in their voluntary repatriation, local integration or resettlement to a third country. \n\nUNHCR was created in 1950, during the aftermaths of World War II. Its headquarters are in Geneva, Switzerland and it is a member of the United Nations Development Group. The UNHCR has won two Nobel Peace Prizes, once in 1954 and again in 1981 and a Prince of Asturias Awards for International Cooperation in 1991.\n\nFollowing the demise of the League of Nations and the formation of the United Nations the international community was acutely aware of the refugee crisis following the end of World War II. In 1947, the International Refugee Organization (IRO) was founded by the United Nations. The IRO was the first international agency to deal comprehensively with all aspects of refugees' lives. Preceding this was the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, which was established in 1944 to address the millions of people displaced across Europe as a result of World War II.\n\nIn the late 1940s, the IRO fell out of favor, but the UN agreed that a body was required to oversee global refugee issues. Despite many heated debates in the General Assembly, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees was founded as a subsidiary organ of the General Assembly by Resolution 319 (IV) of the United Nations General Assembly of December 1949. However, the organization was only intended to operate for 3 years, from January 1951, due to the disagreement of many UN member states over the implications of a permanent body.\n\nUNHCR's mandate was originally set out in its statute, annexed to resolution 428 (V) of the United Nations General Assembly of 1950. This mandate has been subsequently broadened by numerous resolutions of the General Assembly and its Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). According to UNHCR,\n\n[its] mandate is to provide, on a non-political and humanitarian basis, international protection to refugees and to seek permanent solutions for them.\n\nSoon after the signing of the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees, it became clear that refugees were not solely restricted to Europe. In 1956, UNHCR was involved in coordinating the response to the uprising in Hungary. Just a year later, UNHCR was tasked with dealing with Chinese refugees in Hong Kong, while also responding Algerian refugees who had fled to Morocco and Tunisia in the wake of Algeria's war for independence. The responses marked the beginning of a wider, global mandate in refugee protection and humanitarian assistance.\n\nDecolonization in the 1960s triggered large refugee movements in Africa, creating a massive challenge that would transform UNHCR; unlike the refugee crises in Europe, there were no durable solutions in Africa and many refugees who fled one country only found instability in their new country of asylum. By the end of the decade, two-thirds of UNHCR's budget was focused on operations in Africa and in just one decade, the organization's focus had shifted from an almost exclusive focus on Europe.\n\nIn 1967, the Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees was ratified to remove the geographical and temporal restrictions of UNHCR under the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. As the Convention was confined to the refugee crisis in the aftermath of World War II in Europe, the Protocol was made to address the “new refugee situations that have arisen since the Convention was adopted and the refugees concerned that may therefore not fall within the scope of the Convention”.\n\nIn the 1970s, UNHCR refugee operations continued to spread around the globe, with the mass exodus of East Pakistanis to India shortly before the birth of Bangladesh. Adding to the woes in Asia was the Vietnam war, with millions fleeing the war-torn country.\n\nThe 1980s saw new challenges for UNHCR, with many member states unwilling to resettle refugees due to the sharp rise in refugee numbers over the 1970s. Often, these refugees were not fleeing wars between states, but inter-ethnic conflict in newly independent states. The targeting of civilians as military strategy added to the displacement in many nations, so even 'minor' conflicts could result in a large number of displaced persons. Whether in Asia, Central America or Africa, these conflicts, fueled by superpower rivalry and aggravated by socio-economic problems within the concerned countries, durable solutions continued to prove a massive challenge for the UNHCR. As a result, the UNHCR became more heavily involved with assistance programs within refugee camps, often located in hostile environments.\n\nThe end of the Cold War marked continued inter-ethnic conflict and contributed heavily to refugee flight. In addition, humanitarian intervention by multinational forces became more frequent and the media began to play a big role, particularly in the lead up to the 1999 NATO mission in Yugoslavia, while by contrast, the 1994 Rwandan Genocide had little attention. The genocide in Rwanda caused a massive refugee crisis, again highlighting the difficulties for UNHCR to uphold its mandate, and the UNHCR continued to battle against restrictive asylum policies in so called 'rich' nations.\n\nUNHCR was established on 14 December 1950 and succeeded the earlier United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. The agency is mandated to lead and co-ordinate international action to protect refugees and resolve refugee problems worldwide. Its primary purpose is to safeguard the rights and well-being of refugees. It strives to ensure that everyone can exercise the right to seek asylum and find safe refuge in another state, with the option to return home voluntarily, integrate locally or to resettle in a third country.\n\nUNHCR's mandate has gradually been expanded to include protecting and providing humanitarian assistance to whom it describes as other persons \"of concern,\" including internally displaced persons (IDPs) who would fit the legal definition of a refugee under the 1951 United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees and 1967 Protocol, the 1969 Organization for African Unity Convention, or some other treaty if they left their country, but who presently remain in their country of origin. UNHCR presently has major missions in Lebanon, South Sudan, Chad/Darfur, Democratic Republic of Congo, Iraq, Afghanistan as well as Kenya to assist and provide services to IDPs and refugees in camps and in urban settings.\n\nUNHCR maintains a database of refugee information, ProGres, which was created during the Kosovo War in the 1990s. The database today contains data on over 11 million refugees, or about 11% of all displaced persons globally. The database contains biometric data, including fingerprints and iris scans and is used to determine aid distribution for recipients. The results of using biometric verification has been successful. When introduced in Kenyan refugee camps of Kakuma and Dadaab in the year 2013, the UN World Food Programme was able to eliminate $1.4m in waste and fraud.\n\nTo achieve its mandate, the UNHCR engaged in activities both in the countries of interest and in countries with donors. For example, the UNHCR hosts expert roundtables to discuss issues of concern to the international refugee community.\n\nThe “United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East” (UNRWA) has a different definition of \"refugee\" than the UNHCR, including not only original ″Palestine Refugees″ themselves but their descendants (in patriarchal line) in perpetuity; however, it only covers refugees stemming from the 1948 and 1967 Arab-Israeli wars.\n\nSeveral new programs have recently been introduced to support and to heighten awareness of the issues faced by refugees around the world. These two new programs are a product of the benchmarks set out by the United Nations Millennium Development Goals.\n\nThe UNHCR works in different regions of the world to raise awareness about the refugee crisis and the needs of these refugees.\n\nSince 2009, the UNHCR acknowledged a large presence of migration and refugees in the Caribbean, where the refugee crisis remained largely unreported. Many refugees in search for asylum in the United States are unable to reach their destination and end up in the Caribbean. However, migrant laws in most of these nations lacked any protections for asylum-seekers, even the ability to be recognized as a refugee or asylum seeker itself. The UNHCR organized talks with these nations in Costa Rica in 2009, in an effort to bring forward the lack of protections for refugees, who are often labeled as \"illegal\" and prosecuted as unauthorized migrants.\n\nIn 2007, UNHCR offices in Canada launched an aggressive media campaign to shed light on the plight of refugees. This campaign was meant to humanize the refugee crisis by showing refugees living in the midst of disturbing conditions. Using emotional appeals to raise public awareness, the campaign hoped to increase the interest of particularly \"30 to 45-year-old professionals who are generally well educated, well read, but have not had direct experience or knowledge of refugee issues,” according to fund-raising officer Jonathan Wade.\n\nIn Ireland, the UNHCR works to inform the public through different channels. The UNHCR in Ireland actively pursues media relations and \"[they] supply the media with accurate and reliable information coupled with our unique insight based on our refugee protection mandate and role as one of the world’s leading humanitarian agencies\". It also engages its community by holding public events in aims of informing people of current refugee crises. One of these is the annual UNHCR/SARI Fair play Football Cup.\n\nAs UNHCR is a program governed by the UN General Assembly, and the UN Economic and Social Council, it cooperates with many other programs and agencies under the United Nations in order to effectively protect the rights of refugees.\n\nOn 19 September 2016, UN General Assembly hosted the UN Summit for Refugees and Migrants, a high-level summit to address large movements of refugees and migrants, with the aim of bringing countries together behind a more humane and coordinated approach. Leaders of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, UN Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, UN Office on Drugs and Crime, and The World Bank were present. The summit addressed the root causes and drive for migration and the necessity of global cooperation. As a result of this summit, the United Nations unveiled a draft set of principles that urge the international community to build on the momentum set by the adoption of the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants (2016). Specifically, the 20 draft principles focus on human rights; non-discrimination; rescue and assistance; access to justice; border governance; returns; violence; detention; family unity; child migrants; women migrants; right to health; adequate standard of living; decent work; right to education; right to information; monitoring and accountability; migrants’ human rights defenders; data; and international cooperation.\n\nOn 28 September 2016, the UNHCR partnered with the UN Food and Agricultural Organization in Tehran for the Solutions Strategy for Afghan Refugees. FAO highlighted the contributions to be made by FAO towards SSAR objectives on livelihood related activities including livestock and fishery initiatives as well as nutritional projects in Iranian schools.\n\nFAO and UNHCR are committed to increasing refugees’ access to livelihood opportunities and reducing dependency on humanitarian aid. Of late, a joint livelihood strategy for South Sudan was launched looking to address this issue with a clearly defined action plan. The strategy targets both refugees (70 percent) and local communities (30 percent) in refugee-hosting areas across the country.\n\nSince 1954, the UNHCR Nansen Refugee Award has been annually awarded to a person or an organization in recognition of outstanding service to the cause of refugees, displaced or stateless people.\n\nThe UNHCR itself was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1954 and 1981. The UNHCR has been chosen for the prestigious Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development 2015.\n\nIn 1991 was awarded with the prestigious Prince of Asturias Award for International Cooperation.\n\nThe UNHCR's Mid-Year Trends report of June 2015 (based on information for mid-2015 or latest available information up to that date) reported an \"unprecedented\" 57,959,702 individuals falling under its mandate (for reference, on January the 1st, 2007, 21,018,589 people - or less than half of the number in 2015 - fell under the mandate of the UNHCR). The sharp increase was mainly attributed to the Syrian Civil War, \"with the outbreak of armed crises or the deterioration of ongoing ones in countries like Afghanistan, Burundi, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mali, Somalia, South Sudan and the Ukraine contributing to prevailing trends.\"\n\nPersons of concern include refugees and asylum-seekers, people in refugee-like conditions, internally-displaced people (IDPs), stateless persons and \"others of concern to the UNHCR\". Sorted by the UNHCR bureau in which asylum is sought, the number for June 2015 included:\n\n, the UNHCR employed a staff of 6,351 people in 117 countries.\n\nThe UN General Assembly elects High Commissioners every five years. High Commissioners are supported by the 'Executive Committee to the High Commissioner’s Programme' and he or she has to make annual reports to the UN General Assembly and needs to follow their directives. The current High Commissioner is Filippo Grandi, who has held the post since 1 January 2016. Prior to the establishment of the UNHCR, Fridtjof Nansen was the League of Nations High Commissioner of the Nansen International Office for Refugees, from 1922. The post of High Commissioner has been held by:\nFridtjof Nansen as the League of Nations' high commissioner for prisoners of war and refugees, during a stay in Sofia, where he discussed problems regarding the exchange of prisoners of war and refugees.\n\nAfter 10 years serving as a Goodwill Ambassador, Angelina Jolie was promoted in 2012 to Special Envoy to the High Commissioner. In this role she represents the UNHCR and High Commissioner Filipo Grandi at the diplomatic level and works to facilitate long-term solutions for people displaced by large-scale crises, such as Afghanistan and Somalia. \"This is an exceptional position reflecting an exceptional role she has played for us,\" said a UNHCR spokesman.\n\nUNHCR is also represented by a number of UNHCR Goodwill Ambassadors, who at present are:\n\n\nPrevious ambassadors include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15095926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15095926", "title": "Web presence", "text": "Web presence\n\nA web presence is a location on the World Wide Web where a person, business, or some other entity is represented (see also web property and point of presence).\n\nExamples of a web presence for a person could be a personal website, a blog, a profile page, a wiki page, or a social media point of presence (e.g. a LinkedIn profile, a Facebook account, or a Twitter account). Examples of a web presence for a business or some other entity could be a corporate website, a microsite, a page on a review site, a wiki page, or a social media point of presence (e.g., a LinkedIn company page and/or group, a Facebook business/brand/product page, or a Twitter account).\n\nEvery web presence is associated with a unique web address to distinguish one point of presence from another.\n\nWeb presence can either be owned or unowned. Owned media exists when a single person or group can control the content that is published on its web presence (e.g. a corporate website or a personal Twitter account). However, when a single person or group cannot solely control the content, the creator is different from the owner. This is considered unowned media (see earned media). A Wikipedia or Yelp page about a person, company, or product would be an example of an unowned (or \"earned\") web presence.\n\nOccasionally, a third form of media known as \"paid media\" is often included in the discussion of media types: \"earned vs. owned vs. paid\". Paid media is commonly found in the form of advertisements, but it is not considered a form of web presence.\n\nWeb presence management is the process of establishing and maintaining a digital footprint on the web. The three factors that are considered include the following: \"where\" a person or business has web presence; \"how\" each web presence represents its enterprise; and \"what\" is published at a point of presence.\n\nWeb presence management is the discipline of determining and governing:\n\nThe purpose of a web presence management system is to manage the web presence of a person or business. This includes the collection of domain names, websites, social media, and other web pages where he, she, or it is being represented. The tool generally offers the following key functions: new presence discovery, inventory management, change detection, access control, stakeholder coordination, and compliance workflow.\n\nA web presence management system is meant to have a broader reach so that it emphasizes where a presence has been established, will be established, must be maintained, or must be remediated. An example of a web presence management system is the Brandle Presence Manager.\n\nIn order to publish content to the various points of web presence, multiple content management systems and sometimes even social media management systems are often used. The primary focus of most content and social media management systems is limited to their specific web platforms.\n\nAnother aspect of web presence management is managing the collection of domain names registered to the person or business. Any entity may register multiple domain names for the same property. As a result, they can link alternative spellings, different top-level domains, aliases, brands, or products to the same website. Similarly, negative or derogatory domain names may also be registered. This is done to prevent certain domain names from being used against the person or business.\n\nIt is common for a larger business to have domain names registered by multiple employees at multiple domain name registrars, possibly a result of organizational or geographical requirements. Consequently, a web presence management system can be used to monitor all domain names registered by the business, regardless of the registrars used.\n\nWeb presence discovery is the process of monitoring the web for a new point of presence about a person or business. Web presence discovery is often included in a web presence management system. Whether a new domain is registered, a new website is published, or a new social media account is established, it occurs outside of the person’s or business’ control. As a result, its purpose is to assess a new point of presence and appropriately handle any violations.\n\nIt is important to note that web presence discovery differs from content listening. The former involves looking for new properties on the web, whereas the latter refers to analyzing content that already exists to hear how a person or business is seen often in near real time. Examples of content listening systems include Sysomos and Radian6, which is now a subsidiary of Salesforce.com.\n\nA person or business may choose to watch for a new web presence that might appear to misrepresent or mislead an audience, such as counterfeiters, spoofers, or malicious hackers. One of the early software in the online brand protection marketplace was MarkMonitor, now part of Thomson Reuters. This software helped detect rogue domain names and websites.\n\nHowever, the modern day growth of social media has seen a rise in the number of fraudulent brand impersonations. It has become much easier for a new web presence to be created on those platforms, which results in a greater frequency of them today. As a preventative measure, online brand protection providers are now adding social media to their domain and website discovery options.\n\nThe widespread growth of social media has also made it easier for unauthorized individuals to impersonate an employee. Consequently, social media has now become a recognized threat vector in that it can be used to socially engineer an attack on a business. To counter this, companies are able to use web presence monitoring tools to detect new points of presence on the web and thereby defend against socially engineered attacks.\n\nA web presence monitoring system can be used by a business to associate a new web property with its corporate inventory. It is designed to address autonomous, distributed behaviors. This usually applies to larger businesses whose geographically diverse employees are more prone to creating new points of presence on the web. For example, a retail chain may allow each local store to create and manage their web presence to market to and communicate with their local customer base. Similarly, a global business may have teams in each country or region who create and manage a web presence to adapt to local languages or cultures.\n\nWeb presence monitoring is the process of monitoring a known inventory of web presence to detect any changes that are made. Web presence monitoring is often included in a web presence management system and can serve multiple purposes for both larger corporations and certain individuals, such as celebrities.\n\nIt is important to note that presence monitoring differs from content listening. The former involves monitoring the properties (e.g. branding) of a web property in an established inventory, whereas the latter refers to analyzing content that already exists to hear how a person or business is seen often in near real time. Additionally, presence monitoring focuses on owned media and content listening on earned media.\n\nMany companies ensure that certain standards are met for a property on the web that represents their business. For companies in regulated industries, such as finance and healthcare, the company may be required by law to ensure that all publicized content, regardless of platform or technology, follow specific requirements.\n\nThe widespread growth of social media has seen a rise in the number of fraudulent corporate impersonations. It has become much easier for a new web presence to be created on these platforms, and so these are much more prevalent than they used to be. As a preventative measure, a web presence monitoring system alerts the company when a known property is changed, allowing for the property to be reviewed and amended so that it follows the proper standards.\n. A web presence monitoring system helps alert the company when a known property is changed, so it can be reviewed and brought back, if necessary, into compliance with the appropriate standards.\n\nA web presence audit is performed by an enterprise to determine that all points of presence on the web meet the objectives as well as governance, risk management, and compliance (GRC) needs. To ensure neutrality, these audits are often conducted as part of an information technology audit by a professional services agency or an internal audit team. However, a less formal web presence audit is often performed by internal members as a routine to meet GRC objectives.\n\nA web presence audit usually includes web presence discovery and a review of all web-based content in the business’ inventory of web presence. Even though web presence monitoring is not performed in a web presence audit, a review of the nature and scope of the company's web presence monitoring policies, procedures, and tools is considered.\n\nDue to the emerging challenges introduced by the dynamic nature of social media, a business may choose to perform specific social media audits in greater frequency. A social media audit is similar to a web presence audit, but may also include the purposes of maintaining an accurate inventory of all business social media points of presence. Alternatively, the business may choose to employ automated web presence discovery and compliance systems to keep the corporate social media inventory up-to-date and compliant with GRC needs.\n\nReputation management systems are often associated with web presence management. Web presence management is knowing \"where\" an individual or business is represented, whereas reputation management is knowing \"what\" people are saying about an individual or business. Web presence management handles owned media, while reputation management systems with earned media.\n\nBoth systems offer some similar degree of remediation. For web presence management systems, remediation would include finding counterfeit properties that infringe on a brand or trademark. For reputation management systems, remediation would include identifying and eliminating misleading reviews and/or encouraging the contribution of authentic comments.\n\nEven though a web presence monitoring tool can help identify unowned web properties where people are talking about a person, product, or brand, it is only part of the solution. A reputation management system often includes a content listening system to monitor the stream of messages about a particular subject which may be coming from any point of presence on the web (e.g. a comment about a product by a customer on her personal Twitter account). For examples of some .\n"}
{"id": "1195824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1195824", "title": "Wipeout (elections)", "text": "Wipeout (elections)\n\nAn electoral wipeout occurs when a major party receives far fewer votes or seats in a Legislature than their position justifies. It is the opposite of a landslide victory; the two frequently going hand in hand.\n\nNote that the use of the phrase generally assumes that the returns were the product of a legitimate election; show elections to fraudulent legislatures regularly produce incredibly strong majorities for the ruling party(s).\n\nBetween 1901 and 1949, the upper house of the Australian Senate was elected by a system of majoritarian or \"winner-take-all\" voting. Each state had 3 of its 6 Senators retiring at each half-senate election. Each voter had 3 votes at each election, whether by first-past-the-post (FPTP) 1901-1918, or the alternative vote. It was often the case that the 3 seats all went the same way, leading to lopsided results in the six states such as 36-0 or 3-33. These results brought the parliament into some disrepute.\n\nIn 1948, the Single Transferable Vote (STV) was introduced. At the same time, the number of senators per state was increased from 6 to 10, with 5 instead of 3 retiring at each triennial election. The increased number of vacancies per election would have exacerbated the \"landslide/wipeout\" effect if the old winner-take-all system had been retained. Instead, having more seats \"increased\" the degree of proportionality between votes received and seats won by parties.\n\nSince the introduction of STV in the Senate, the parties have generally been evenly balanced, with minor parties and independents holding the balance of power. While frustrated, the government in the lower house has had a lot of different people to negotiate with.\n\nIn the 2004 election, the government did the nearly impossible and gained the 57% of the vote in one state to obtain a majority in its own right in the senate from July 2005, when the new senators take up their seats. The number of quotas required to win a majority (four) of six seats, at 57% (four-sevenths of the votes), is so high because there are an even number of seats.\n\nIn the lower house, FPTP was changed to preferential voting in 1918.\n\nIn the 1974 Queensland state election, using single-member electorates and full-preferential voting, the Labor opposition was reduced to a \"cricket team\" of eleven MPs, against the National Country Party/ Liberal Party Coalition government with 69 seats (and 2 Independents).\n\n\nThe use of an electoral threshold in German elections means that sometimes a major party can fail to win seats in the Bundestag or a state parliament, either because their vote share falls below 5% or because the number of directly-elected seats drops below 3. Post-war examples include:\n\n\nUntil it moved to a proportional representation system in 1996, general elections in New Zealand were also prone to the possibility of wipeouts, though these in general involved the likelihood of third parties getting few or no seats rather than one of the two major parties being massively underrepresented. This former circumstance occurred most starkly in the 1981 general election, in which the Social Credit Party gained 20.6% of the vote yet gained only two seats in the 92-seat parliament.\n\nThe 1935 general election did, however, see a major party wipeout, and led to the creation of a new major party. In the 1935 election, the Labour Party gained 46.1% of the vote to the United/Reform Coalition's 32.9%, but won 53 seats to the United/Reform's 19. As a result of this election the two coalition parties merged to form the National Party, which remains a major force in current New Zealand politics.\n\n\nThe Scottish Parliament elections uses a version of the Additional member system, meaning that 73 seats are won through First Past the Post constituency votes, and additional seats are added for the regional vote which uses a variation of the D'Hondt method.\n\n\n1. Singapore's Constituency Boundary Map\n"}
{"id": "48521997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48521997", "title": "Zomi Congress for Democracy", "text": "Zomi Congress for Democracy\n\nThe Zomi Congress for Democracy (; abbreviated ZCD) is a political party in Myanmar. Most of the party's support comes from Chin State, where the original ZNC was headquartered. The party is most popular in the Tonzang and Tedim Townships, where their headquarters and strongholds are. The party has 15,000 members in Chin State.\n\nThe ZCD was founded as the \"Zomi National Congress\" (ZNC) in Daizang, Manipur, India in 1972. Under the leadership of T. Gougin, and S. K. Samte, the organisation campaigned for the unification of the Zomi people in India and Myanmar, and submitted a memorandum to the then President of India V. V. Giri. It was a major goal for the ZNC that the first \"World Zomi Convention\" be held at Champhai, Mizoram, India from 19–21 May 1988; a goal which was completed.\n\nIn 1988, after the 8888 uprising, the ZNC branch in Burma was registered as a political party. It was permitted to function as a political organisation until 1992, when the military junta abolished the party, and banned it from all political activities.\n\nCin Sian Thang, 67, was chairman of the Zomi National Congress, until the party's dissolution. Elected as a Member of Parliament during Burma's ill-fated 1990 elections, he worked diligently for several years in defiance of the country’s ruling military junta. During the 1960s, Cin Sian Thang served as a leader of the Chin Ethnic Student Union while a student at Rangoon University. He has been imprisoned on at least six occasions by successive military regimes for his political activities between 1972 and 1999. In each instance, he served two years, during which he was subjected to brutal interrogations and torture, which has led to permanent health problems. He also served as a member of the Committee Representing People’s Parliament, a group supported by 251 candidates elected in 1990. Considered a moderate ethnic leader, Cin Sian Thang heavily promoted the CRPP as a rallying point for Burmese activists and ethnic leaders. He was the most outspoken elected ethnic leader in Myanmar. He is also the co-author of the book \"In Burma, a Cry for U.N. Help\".\n\nThe party renamed to the Zomi Congress for Democracy after new naming restrictions imposed by the government leading up to the 2012 by-elections required them to drop the word 'National' from their name. The party formally registered this name with the Union Election Commission in 2012.\n"}
