{"id": "31105432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31105432", "title": "Amazon tax", "text": "Amazon tax\n\nAmazon tax collection policy has changed over the years. In the U.S., state and local sales taxes are levied by state and local governments, not at the federal level. In most countries where Amazon operates, a sales tax or value added tax is uniform throughout the country, and Amazon is obliged to collect it from all customers.\n\nMany U.S. states have passed online shopping sales tax laws designed to compel Amazon.com and other e-commerce retailers to collect state and local sales taxes from its customers. Amazon.com originally collected sales tax only from five states as of 2011, but as of April 2017 collects sales taxes from customers in all 45 states that have a state sales tax and in Washington, D.C.\nAmazon does not collect sales taxes from Alaska, Delaware, Montana, New Hampshire, and Oregon, since those states do not have state sales taxes. Additionally, approximately half of all Amazon.com purchases are sold on the Amazon Marketplace through 3rd-party vendors, and these purchases remain free of tax except for in Washington state, where these purchases (starting in 2018) are now taxed.\n\nProponents of forcing Amazon.com to collect sales tax—at least in states where it maintains a physical presence—argue the corporation wields an anti-competitive advantage over storefront businesses forced to collect sales tax.<ref name=\"Bloomberg/BusinessWeek\"></ref> Tax opponents respond to this argument by pointing out that individual states could make storefront businesses more competitive by lowering or entirely eliminating sales tax. Amazon is under increasing legal and political pressure from state governments, traditional retailers and other groups because of its refusal to collect sales tax in 41 of the 45 states with a statewide sales tax (as of March 2017). Those states include several where Amazon has a clear physical presence via distribution centers and wholly owned subsidiaries.\n\nAmazon says it would support a federal solution to the sales tax problem as long as such legislation was fair and simple. As of May 2011 legislation has been introduced in Congress to allow states to impose sales taxes on sales to their residents from out-of-state. Amazon has not stated a public position on the bill. Amazon's competitors say it is insincere. Similar legislation, called the Main Street Fairness Act, failed in committee in 2010. Several earlier versions of the bill also failed to advance. Amazon lobbyists met four times with members of Congress or their aides in 2010 regarding the Main Street Fairness Act. The company spent $100,000 on lobbying in 2010, although these expenses also covered other bills discussed at the same time. Amazon has increased political contributions to federal lawmakers. Amazon's political action committee spent $214,000 during the 2010 election cycle, double what it spent for the 2008 elections.\n\nNot all states listed below have instituted Amazon laws. State responses have varied widely. In many cases, Amazon has started collecting sales taxes because they have opened up a fulfillment center or some other physical presence in the state. In other cases, states have entered into agreements with Amazon to collect sales taxes, but formal laws have not been passed. Finally, some states have passed laws that require out-of-state retailers to either collect sales tax or notify buyers that they are responsible for reporting their owed sales tax to state tax authorities. During the first wave of \"Amazon laws\", many states determined that if an affiliate or other entity in the state received compensation for referrals to an online retailer, then that constituted a nexus in the state and hence retailers were liable for collecting sales taxes. In many cases, after these laws were passed, Amazon shut down its affiliate program in those states and was able to avoid collecting sales taxes. Other states (such as New York) took stricter stances and required online retailers to collect sales taxes on all sales and shipments to residents of their states whether or not the retailer had a physical presence in the state. Finally, many agreements and laws require Amazon and other online retailers to only collect state sales tax, not local sales taxes.\n\nOn October 1, 2015, Alabama allowed retailers to voluntarily join their Simplified Sellers Use Tax program in which sellers would collect a flat 8% sales tax no matter where they shipped to within the state. Alabama's law also allows them to lock in the 8 percent rate even if the federal government adopts a higher figure in the future. The tax applies to all sales regardless of where they are shipped in the state. Furthermore, if sellers paid on time, they would be able to keep 2% and only remit 6% to Alabama. As a condition of joining the program, sellers agree to maintain records of all sales into Alabama, including purchaser name and address as well as purchase amount and taxes collected. Then, on January 1, 2016, new rules promulgated by the Alabama Department of Revenue required any out-of-state sellers doing more than $250,000 in sales to Alabama residents would be required to collect sales tax. This appears to be in contradiction to Quill Corp. v. North Dakota.\n\nAs of November 1, 2016, Amazon started collecting state sales tax by participating in Alabama's Simplified Use Tax Remittance Program, joining over 50 other retailers that had joined the program.\n\nOn October 26, 2012, Amazon reached an agreement with the Arizona Department of Revenue to pay $53 million to settle unpaid sales taxes. Furthermore, effective February 1, 2013, Amazon agreed to begin collecting sales taxes for goods sold to Arizonans. Furthermore, on July 1, 2013, Amazon would also begin collecting sales tax on digital products or services, like books. Amazon only agreed to collect the 6.6% state sales tax, but there was no requirement to collect local sales taxes, which can bring total tax close to 10%. This was an agreement between Amazon and Arizona, which mainly centered on Amazon's tax obligations because it maintains warehouses in Arizona. Arizona does not have a state law forcing other online retailers to collect sales tax if they do not have a physical nexus in Arizona.\n\nIn 2011, Arkansas passed a bill requiring Amazon to collect sales tax. The bill took advantage of Amazon's use of affiliates based in Arkansas to establish the necessary physical nexus. Amazon responded by terminating the contracts of its Arkansas-based affiliates effective July 24, 2011. As of March 1, 2017, Amazon will be charging Arkansas residents sales tax after legislation was being moved to collect sales taxes from online retailers. Whether Amazon collects local sales taxes is unclear. Arkansas is currently considering two bills that would require online retailers to collect sales tax (SB 140) or notify Arkansas residents that they owe sales taxes to the Arkansas government (HB 1388).\n\nIn April 2017, Amazon began collecting sales tax in the state.\n\nIn 2009, California representative Nancy Skinner pushed legislation to tax online sales that was approved as part of the state budget. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed the legislation. On January 19, 2011 Skinner introduced similar legislation in the form of AB153 that later became law. The bill required out-of-state online sellers with affiliates in California to collect sales tax on purchases made by state residents. The affiliate provision was included to ensure that only sellers with a California nexus are taxed, as required by federal law. \"This legislation will close the current loophole in tax law that has allowed out-of-state companies to avoid collecting California sales and use tax,\" stated Skinner. Skinner estimated that AB153 could produce between $250 million and $500 million per year in new revenue. She and other supporters of the bill believe that the election of Jerry Brown to the governorship and support from retailers such as Barnes & Noble will help the measure become law.\n\nIn 2011, Amazon threatened to terminate roughly 10,000 of its affiliates located in California if legislation pending in the state legislature to deem such affiliates as constituting a nexus that requires the collection of sales tax is passed. California affiliates would no longer receive commissions on referrals to Amazon. As of March 2011, four bills are pending in the state legislature that would define the use of associates located in California-* for sales referrals as activity subject to taxation by California. In a letter addressed to California's Board of Equalization, the agency responsible for collecting sales taxes, Amazon called such legislation \"unconstitutional\" and said it would terminate its California affiliates if passed. \"If any of these new tax collection schemes were adopted, Amazon would be compelled to end its advertising relationships with well over 10,000 California-based participants in the Amazon 'Associates Program,'\" wrote Paul Misener, Amazon's Vice President for Global Public Policy.\n\nResponding to Amazon, Nancy Skinner said, \"This is really about e-fairness. It's really to be fair and show our California Businesses that we're not hanging them out to dry.\" According to the American Independent Business Alliance, the corporation has operations in at least seven California cities and should be forced to collect sales tax regardless of its threats.\n\nIn July 2011, Amazon made good on its promises to terminate California affiliates. According to the Performance Marketing Association, there were 25,000 Amazon affiliates based in California. However, on Amazon's website, under \"United States Subsidiaries,\" listed are four California locations for A2Z Development Center Inc. - \"an innovative customer-centric software development company\" - including in San Francisco and Cupertino, where the Kindle was designed; a search engine company called A9.com in Palo Alto; and, in San Francisco, Alexa Internet, another Amazon search company.\n\nDue to its opposition to rules that would require the company to collect sales tax, Amazon.com is facing a boycott from a coalition of California non-profits. One of the groups behind the boycott, Think Before You Click CA, says improved sales tax enforcement will bring in $200 million per year in additional revenue and encourage people to shop at local traditional retailers instead of online.\n\nIn response to resistance from Amazon.com, other online retailers, and anti-tax groups, the State of California agreed to a delay of one year before requiring online retailers to begin collecting sales tax on sales to California addresses. In return for the one-year delay, Amazon.com says it will create 10,000 full-time jobs, 25,000 seasonal jobs, invest $500 million in various facilities in California over the next few years, and begin remitting sales taxes on orders shipped to California. California began collecting sales taxes on September 15, 2012 and the rate will depend upon where the buyer is located. However, this requirement may not apply to third-party sellers on Amazon.\n\nIn response to HB 10-1193 passed in 2010, Amazon terminated its relationship with all affiliates located in Colorado. The bill originally sought to tax sales to Colorado residents by online retailers with Colorado affiliates. The bill was amended to remove all reference to affiliates in order to discourage Amazon from cutting ties with them. The final bill required large online retailers to either remit tax on sales to Colorado residents or provide information on Colorado customers to the state. In spite of this move Amazon still decided to terminate its Colorado affiliates.\n\nAmazon began collecting sales tax in Colorado on February 1, 2016. On February 23, 2016, the Federal 10th Circuit Court of Appeals court upheld the law against a legal challenge by the Direct Marketing Association. Ruling Judge Neil M. Gorsuch contended that overturning the law would create a statewide \"tax shelter\" for online retailers. Following the ruling, policy experts predicted that the decision could lead to a unified push for national internet sales taxes. It is unclear whether or not Amazon collects local taxes.\n\nIn May 2011, Connecticut Gov. Dannel P. Malloy signed legislation that requires online retailers to collect sales tax if they have affiliates in the state. The legislation aims to raise $9.4 million. Amazon said Connecticut’s legislation violates Quill Corporation v. North Dakota and immediately moved to terminate its affiliate relationships in Connecticut. Amazon accused traditional retailers such as Wal-Mart of being behind Connecticut's new law.\n\n“We opposed this new tax law because it is unconstitutional and counterproductive. It was supported by big-box retailers, most of which are based outside Connecticut, that seek to harm the affiliate advertising programs of their competitors. Similar legislation in other states has led to job and income losses, and little, if any, new tax revenue,\" Amazon said in a letter to its affiliates.\n\nAmazon has agreed to collect state sales tax of 6.35% in CT starting November 1, 2013. Amazon has also agreed to invest $50 million in Connecticut and to create hundreds of new full-time jobs in the state.\n\nAmazon began collecting DC's 5.75% sales tax on October 1, 2016.\n\nIn a 2012 editorial supporting tax equity, the Florida \"St. Petersburg Times\" wrote, \"As long as Internet-only sellers such as Amazon.com can get away with not collecting state sales tax and effectively sell their products for at least 6 percent less, Florida merchants pay the price. It's past time for lawmakers to work toward a level playing field.\"\n\nIn May 2014, Amazon started collecting sales tax in Florida after starting plans to build two warehouses in the state. Amazon agreed to collect the state sales tax of 6%, but there was no mention of collecting local sales taxes \n\nGeorgia had passed a law that became effective in January 2012 expanding the definition of what constituted a physical presence in the state in hopes that it would force online retailers to begin collecting sales taxes. However, Amazon did not collect sales taxes until Amazon agreed to start collecting Georgia sales tax on September 1, 2013.\n\nIn January 2017, Hawaii state lawmakers were considering legislation requiring Amazon and other online retailers to collect sales tax. Amazon began to collect a 4% state sales tax, beginning April 1, 2017.\n\nAmazon began collecting Idaho's 6% sales tax from customers who reside in Idaho beginning Saturday, April 1, 2017.\n\nIllinois passed legislation to tax online sales made to consumers located in the state. In March 2011 Gov. Pat Quinn signed the \"Main Street Fairness Act,\" which targets online retailers with Illinois affiliates. Quinn said the act would help create fair competition and generate more revenue for the state. Illinois estimates that it loses $153 million in sales taxes every year because out-of-state retailers do not remit sales tax on purchases made by Illinois residents. Some online retailers have responded to this legislation and similar efforts in other states by threatening income tax revenues collected from their online affiliates. Amazon, along with Overstock.com, has threatened to terminate affiliates in states that demand that sales tax be collected by online retailers, including Illinois. Wal-Mart responded by inviting online businesses based in Illinois to join its affiliate network.\n\nThe Illinois Policy Institute has said that the law has been \"all pain and no gain.\" While it was \"sold as a significant revenue raiser and a step toward improved tax fairness, it is accomplishing little more than pushing online entrepreneurs out of state.\"\n\nThe law was declared unconstitutional in October 2013 by the Illinois Supreme Court because it applied only to online businesses. Illinois subsequently passed similar legislation which applied to \"catalog, mail-order and similar retailers along with online sellers... if they have sales of $10,000 or more in the prior year.\" Although the law went into effect January 1, 2015, retailers were given an additional month to comply with the legislation. Online retailers are required to collect the 6.25% state sales tax, but do not have to collect local sales taxes in addition to the state rate.\n\nAmazon announced in October that it plans to build several facilities in Illinois by 2017, including the first this year, which eventually would have required it to collect the state's use tax.\n\nIndianapolis based Simon Property Group sued the state in 2011 to force it to collect sales tax from Amazon in an attempt to level the playing field. In a settlement deal brokered by Gov. Mitch Daniels in January 2012, Amazon agreed to collect sales tax from Indiana residents beginning January 1, 2014. Amazon owns four distribution centers in Indiana, which satisfies the physical requirement.\n\nOn January 1, 2017, Amazon began collecting 6% sales tax in Iowa. As Amazon has no physical presence in Iowa, it is not compelled by law to collect state sales tax. Amazon will not collect the local option portion of the sales tax.\n\nAmazon has collected sales tax in Kansas since at least 2005 even though it opened up a distribution center back in 1999, which satisfies the physical presence requirement that often forces retailers to collect sales taxes. Proposed Senate Bill 111 would require online retailers to notify Kansas residents of their sales tax liabilities if the retailer does not collect sales taxes on the transaction.\n\nAmazon has collected sales tax in Kentucky since 2005 according to the Tax Justice Blog, but Amazon has maintained a distribution center in Kentucky since at least 1999. Kentucky does not have a law requiring sales tax collection for companies that do not have a physical presence in the state.\n\nIn a 2011 editorial \"The State\" (A South Carolina paper) criticized the Kentucky incentives given to Amazon to build a distribution center in Lexington. They wrote, with respect to the South Carolina deal, that that deal with Amazon created \"...yet another exemption in our Swiss-cheese tax code, and surrender[ed] what little leverage we have to collect taxes on the fastest-growing segment of the retail sector — from which we derive the largest share of the revenue that runs state government. It’s only a small step from giving Amazon a five-year exemption from collecting the sales taxes from S.C. residents to giving that same break to Walmart, Target and all the other businesses that offer online shopping — as one Senate amendment actually proposed to do.\"\n\nAs of January 1, 2017, Amazon began collecting sales tax in Louisiana. Louisiana citizens, whose state has one of the highest average combined sales tax rate in the nation, now pay, on average, 9% in state and local sales and use tax for Amazon purchases.\n\nAct 22, passed in on March 14, 2016 requires online retailers to collect sales taxes on online purchases.\n\nOn April 1, 2017, Amazon started collecting 5.5% sales tax in Maine following pressure from State officials.\n\nOn October 1, 2014, Amazon started collecting sales tax in Maryland ahead of a planned opening of a new distribution center in Southeast Baltimore. Maryland does not currently require online retailers without a physical presence in the state to collect sales taxes.\n\nOn November 1, 2013, Amazon began collecting the states' 6.25% sales tax for Massachusetts residents. The collection only applies to purchases made on Amazon and not to third-party sellers through Amazon. Amazon is now collecting sales taxes primarily because it now has a physical presence in Massachusetts.\n\nOn October 1, 2015, Amazon started collecting sales tax in Michigan in accordance with a state law compelling online retailers to do so if they have a physical presence in the state.\n\nOn October 1, 2014, Amazon started collecting sales tax in Minnesota. There is no state law compelling it to collect taxes. This decision came ahead of Amazon's decision to open up a distribution center in Shakopee that is opened in early 2017.\n\nOn January 12, 2017, Mississippi's chief tax collector filed to require any company doing more than $250,000 of sales in Mississippi each year to collect the state's 7% sales tax. Amazon has already begun collecting sales tax as of February 1, 2017. Furthermore, at least 3 bills have been introduced into the state legislature to require remote retailers to pay sales tax. Mississippi will allow the internet tax bill passed by the house committee on February 1, 2017, to die in committee. Lt. Gov. Tate Reeves called the bill unconstitutional.\n\nTwo legislators in Missouri have proposed joining the Streamlined Sales Tax Project to ensure that the state collects sales tax on goods shipped from online retailers located out-of-state. Currently Missourians are required to remit use tax for purchases made online but the state government has no practical method to force compliance. Legislative staff report that taxing online sales should significantly increase revenue. Rep. Margo McNeil cited a University of Tennessee study saying that Missouri stands to lose $187 million in 2011 by not taxing online sales. McNeil also said the streamlined sales tax is a good way to end the unfair advantages enjoyed by online retailers over traditional businesses. \"The tax is a step in trying to even the playing field because right now we have a lot of people who are going in and using the stores as a showroom and then going home and buying on the Internet ...,\" McNeil said.\n\nOn February 1, 2017, Amazon began collecting the state portion of the sales tax rate in Missouri that is 4.225 percent, but does not collect city and county portions of the sales tax rate that is charged on local purchases.\n\nAmazon began collecting sales tax in Nebraska on January 1, 2017. Nebraska does not currently have a law requiring online retailers to collect sales taxes if they do not have a physical presence in the state. The sales tax in Nebraska is 6%.\n\nLegislation that would have required Amazon to collect sales tax on purchases shipped to Nevada failed in committee in the state legislature in May 2011. The legislation was proposed by the Retail Association of Nevada and was expected to generate $16 million annually in additional sales tax collections. Concerns about whether such a move might prompt Amazon.com to close its distribution center in the state were partially responsible for derailing this legislation. However, in April 2012, an agreement was reached that would require Amazon to collect sales tax from Nevada customers beginning on January 1, 2014. The agreement would include collecting state and local sales taxes. Nevada does not require other online retailers without a physical presence in Nevada to collect sales taxes.\n\nAmazon began collecting sales tax in New Jersey on July 1, 2013. This was a result of opening up warehouses in New Jersey. New Jersey has not passed a law that would require online retailers without a physical presence to collect sales taxes.\n\nEffective April 1, 2017, Amazon began collecting sales taxes in New Mexico. New Mexico's Revenue Department says that just over 5 percent sales tax will be collected with some going to the state's general fund and some going to the cities where the product was purchased. This 5 percent is much less than the average combined state and local sales tax of 7.51%.\n\nSeveral bills are currently under consideration to reform New Mexico's tax laws and force online retailers to collect sales taxes.\n\nIn 2008, New York passed a law that would force online retailers to collect sales taxes on shipments to state residents. Shortly after the law was signed, Amazon filed a complaint in the New York Supreme Court objecting to the law. The complaint wasn't based on whether in-state customers should pay tax, but upon the long-standing practice of it being the responsibility of the customer to report the sales tax (known as use tax in this case) and not that of the out-of-state businesses. The lawsuit was tossed out of court in January 2009, when New York State Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten stated \"there is no basis upon which Amazon can prevail.\"\n\nAs of 2011 Overstock.com is suing New York state to prevent being required to collect sales taxes on goods shipped to New York residents. In order to comply with the physical presence requirement of Quill Corp. v. North Dakota the law targets out-of-state retailers who make use of New York-based affiliates. Overstock.com argues that the use of affiliates is not enough to meet the physical presence test and that the law thus violates the Commerce Clause. In addition to filing suit, Overstock.com has terminated its 3,400 affiliates in New York.\n\nIn early 2017, Governor Cuomo proposed that sales tax collection be applied to Amazon's \"Marketplace\" operations. In April 2017, Amazon began collecting sales tax in the state.\n\nDue to former state laws, Amazon did not allow North Carolina residents to participate in the Amazon Affiliates program, however this is no longer the case.\nStarting February 1, 2014, Amazon began collecting NC state sales tax on orders.\n\nAmazon has collected sales tax in North Dakota since at least 2001 because they operated a fulfillment center in Grand Forks at that time until 2005. Even after closing the fulfillment center, they still collect sales tax even though North Dakota still has not passed any Amazon tax laws.\n\nA study released by the University of Cincinnati in October 2011 determined that Ohio's state government could increase tax revenue by at least $200 million per year if Congress were to require online retailers to collect and remit sales taxes. Ohio consumers who make online purchases are already required to self-report and pay sales tax but compliance is rare. According to the study, even though more than 60 percent of households in the state made at least one purchase from an online retailer in 2010 less than 1 percent of Ohio state income tax returns included tax payments for such purchases.\n\nOn June 1, 2015, Amazon began collecting sales tax in the State of Ohio due to the new data centers that are being built at the Columbus, Ohio area. This satisfies the requirement of a physical presence of Amazon to begin collecting sales tax in the state due to the affiliate owned by Amazon.\n\nOklahoma Governor Mary Fallin announced in February 2017 that on March 1, Amazon would begin collecting sales taxes on online purchases. This followed the passage by the state legislature of the Oklahoma Retail Protection Act, introduced by Representative Chad Caldwell. Under the Act, affected retailers are responsible for either collecting and remitting state and local sales tax or notifying their customers of their tax obligations.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Department of Revenue released a sales tax bulletin on December 1, 2011 outlining the Commonwealth's interpretation of the Tax Reform Code of 1971 (TRC). The bulletin focuses on the Commonwealth's definition of a nexus for the purposes of collecting sales tax, and points out that the TRC defines a business as \"maintaining a place of business in this Commonwealth\" if that business engages in an activity within the Commonwealth \"either directly or through a subsidiary, representative, or agent, in connection with the lease, sale or delivery of tangible personal property.\"\n\nWhile issuing the sales tax bulletin, Revenue Secretary Dan Meuser said that the Commonwealth would lose an estimated $380 million in 2011 due to the non-collection of online sales taxes. At issue is the presence of four Amazon Fulfillment Centers located in Pennsylvania. Early in December 2011, Meuser said that if out-of-state sellers who haven’t previously collected state sales tax register and start collecting the taxes by February 1, 2012, then the Commonwealth would not seek payments of back taxes. After this deadline, Meuser said the Commonwealth would take enforcement action seeking back taxes. On January 27, 2012, Meuser said that the new tax collection policy was being granted a one time extension until September 1, 2012 because the original \"compliance deadline [was] impractical from operational and technical standpoints.\" Amazon began collecting sales tax in the state beginning on that September 1 deadline. Currently, Amazon just collects Pennsylvania's 6% sales tax, but does not collect any local sales taxes.\n\nOn February 1, 2017, Amazon began voluntarily collecting Rhode Island's 7% sales tax. Back in 2009, Rhode Island had passed a law which would have forced Amazon to collect sales taxes if it had \"affiliates\" in the state. As a result, Amazon cut ties with its affiliates in Rhode Island.\n\nAmazon had agreed to open a distribution center near Columbia, South Carolina that would employ 1,200 people in exchange for a five-year exemption from collection of sales taxes from shoppers in South Carolina. The state House of Representatives rejected the deal in April 2011 and Amazon cancelled plans for its distribution center. Amazon resumed negotiations and offered 2,000 jobs in exchange for a sales tax exemption and other incentives. Under a compromise approved by the South Carolina state legislature in May 2011, Amazon agreed to notify South Carolina customers by email that sales tax was owed on their purchases but shoppers would still be responsible for paying the tax by themselves. Governor Nikki Haley says she plans to allow the bill to become law without signing it.\n\nIn a statement made after the deal for Amazon passed the state House the Alliance for Main Street Fairness said, “Today’s vote in the South Carolina House of Representatives is just one step in the process, yet it’s unfortunate that the majority of the House favors special deals for one prospective retailer at the expense of our state’s existing employers and their 375,000 employees. The vote is particularly disappointing in light of dubious, last minute promises that certainly appear to have influenced some legislators to switch their vote. We’ll rally our troops and voice our concerns to the Senate where we hope they will come to a more fair and rational decision. The case against this special deal continues to grow on a daily basis.\"\n\nMain Street expressed strong disapproval of the South Carolina Senate's approval of this arrangement. In a press release Main Street said, “Nobody complained when Amazon was given free land, property tax cuts, job tax credits and a repeal of the limits on weekend sales. But in the end, this special exemption only passed after backroom deals and last-minute promises were made by Amazon officials – something which should disappoint everyone interested in transparency and good government.\"\n\nSouth Carolina has passed legislation that required Amazon and other internet retailers to start collecting sales tax in 2016. Prior to 2016, Amazon was not required to collect sales tax on purchases made by South Carolina residents. However, the company was responsible for notifying South Carolina residents via e-mail that they faced liability for sales tax and residents were still required to report the value of all purchases made on Amazon in the previous year and pay the appropriate sales tax on their South Carolina tax return . As of January 1, 2016, the tax legislation has expired, meaning that Amazon is now required to collect sales tax at the point of sale from South Carolina residents.\n\nOn February 1, 2017, Amazon agreed to being collecting sales tax in South Dakota. This followed legislation passed in 2016 requiring retailers to remit sales tax even if they did not have a physical presence in the state.\n\nAmazon attempted to avoid being required to collect Tennessee sales tax during negotiations with economic development officials to build two warehouses outside of Chattanooga. Amazon argues that its warehouses are not directly affiliated with the company and thus do not create a nexus that would require the collection of sales taxes. Tennessee revenue officials will not reveal any specific information on a deal with Amazon as they claim doing so would violate state confidentiality laws.\n\nA legal opinion by the state attorney general affirmed the constitutionality of a proposed bill in the state legislature that would require Amazon to collect sales tax on goods it ships to Tennessee residents. The opinion also stated that Amazon's construction of distribution centers in the state constitutes a physical nexus.\n\nAccording to study done by the University of Tennessee's Center for Business and Economic Research, the Tennessee state government and local governments will lose about $410 million in tax revenue in 2011 due to online sales.\n\nOn January 1, 2014, Amazon began collecting sales tax on purchases in Tennessee, after a two-year delay from when Governor Haslam signed the online sales tax bill in 2012. Amazon collects both state and local sales tax.\n\nIn 2010, Texas sent a demand letter for $269 million in sales taxes that the state argues should have been collected and remitted for sales to Texas customers. This dollar amount covers uncollected taxes from December 2005 to December 2009 and also includes penalties and interest. Texas authorities began an investigation of Amazon's tax status after a May 2008 report by \"The Dallas Morning News\" questioned why Amazon does not collect sales tax from Texas customers despite maintaining a distribution center in Irving near the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport. Amazon argues that this distribution center, owned by Amazon.com KYDC LLC, located at the same address as Amazon's corporate headquarters in Seattle, is a legally separate entity and thus does not establish a physical presence in Texas that would require Amazon to collect sales taxes. Amazon has decided to close the Irving distribution center in order to avoid future attempts by Texas to force the collection of sales taxes.\n\nTexas Comptroller Susan Combs faced skeptical questions and criticism from members of the Texas Senate Finance Committee February 16, 2011 over her attempts to collect back sales tax from Amazon.com. Combs replied by saying that all businesses must obey the law \"It is our belief that this is a very, very clear issue about nexus. As I say, this started probably because of catalog sales 47 years ago in 1963,\" said Combs. Combs also cited a Texas law to back up her argument that Amazon is required to collect sales taxes: \"A retailer is engaged in business in this state if the retailer: 1.) maintains, occupies, or uses in this state permanently, temporarily, directly, indirectly or through a subsidiary or agent, however named, an office, place of distribution, sales or sample room or place, warehouse, storage place, or any other place of business.” The Dallas Morning News published an editorial supporting Combs' efforts to collect sales tax from Amazon.com on 17 February 2011. The paper wrote, \"It defies logic that a book bought online can elude sales tax while the same book bought in a bookstore can’t. A sales transaction is a sales transaction, and if one is taxed, why shouldn’t the other be taxed as well?\"\n\nIn March 2010, State Rep. Linda Harper-Brown filed House Bill 2719. House Bill 2719 would allow Amazon to avoid Texas sales tax by amending the state tax code to exempt companies or individuals from being classified as retailers or being ordered to provide state agencies with information on purchases made in Texas, if they make use of \"only a fulfillment center...or computer server.\" House Bill 2719 stands in sharp contrast to House Bill 2403, introduced by Rep. John Otto. House Bill 2403 would close loopholes in the Texas tax code that support Amazon's claim of being exempt from collecting sales tax.\nLegislation pushed by Rep. John Otto to require Amazon and other online retailers with a physical nexus in the state of Texas to collect and remit sales tax became law in 2011. The legislation deems any company with a store, distribution center, or other place of business in Texas as having a physical nexus there for the purpose of collecting sales tax. Otto said that Amazon contended that they did not need to collect the state sales tax because the company did not have a store front in the state and that a subsidiary owned their distribution center in Irving, Texas.\n\nIn April 2012, Amazon agreed to create 2,500 jobs and invest $200 million in new distribution centers in Texas if the state forgave $269 million in back sales taxes. Under the agreement, Amazon began collecting sales taxes from Texas customers beginning July 1, 2012. Under the agreement, Amazon collects the state sales tax of 6.25%, but likely not local sales tax.\n\nUnder Utah state law, internet retailers are only required to collect sales tax for online sales if they have a physical presence and Amazon does not have a physical presence in Utah. However, on December 7, 2016, Gov. Gary Herbert announced that his 2017 tax plan includes a deal with Amazon to start collecting sales tax on Utah purchases. Amazon began collecting sales tax on January 1, 2017. The details of the deal between the state and Amazon, however, remain confidential.\n\nAs of February 1, 2017, Amazon began collecting Vermont's 6% state sales tax, ahead of a Vermont statute about internet sales tax due to go into effect in July 2017. Online retailers will not be required to collect the 1% local sales tax that many Vermont towns impose.\n\nAs of January 2012, Virginia state senator Frank Wagner has introduced legislation that would require companies with a distribution center, warehouse, fulfillment center, office, or other such location in the Commonwealth of Virginia to collect and remit sales tax. Amazon has announced its intent to build two distribution centers in Richmond. This legislation is supported by the Alliance for Main Street Fairness. This legislation was passed in early 2013 with an effective date of September 1, 2013. The only retailers to be affected by this bill, since it only clarifies what qualifies as a physical nexus, are Amazon and backcountry.com.\n\nOn January 22, 2012, Gov. Robert F. McDonnell’s office announced that an agreement that Amazon.com would begin collecting state sales tax had been reached with Amazon.com and members of the General Assembly. The announcement notes that Amazon.com began collecting and remitting Virginia sales tax on September 1, 2013.\n\nStarting on October 1, 2013, Amazon began collecting sales tax in West Virginia. This was after West Virginia passed a law requiring out-of-state retailers to apply sales tax if they or a subsidiary have a physical presence in the state.\n\nIn 2008, Amazon began collecting sales tax in Washington, their home state, after a state law was passed requiring in-state online retailers to collect sales tax. On January 1, 2018, Amazon began enforcing and collecting tax on third-party merchant sales to Washington state customers, as required by a new state law. Washington was the first to have this policy enforced, with plans to bring merchant order taxes to other states in the future. \n\nAmazon began collecting sales taxes in Wisconsin on November 1, 2013, about a year before its Kenosha distribution center was set to open.\n\nStarting March 1, 2017, Amazon voluntarily agreed to begin collecting sales tax in Wyoming. On March 1, 2017, Wyoming passed a bill requiring anyone that does more than 200 transactions or over $100,000 in sales in Wyoming to pay state sales tax.\n\nAmazon in the past was often able to overcome threats from state governments by cutting ties with local partners or leaving the state in question. Amazon severed its relationships with affiliates in Colorado due to efforts by the state government to collect sales tax on internet purchases. Amazon has threatened similar action against affiliates in Illinois over the same issue. In February 2011, Amazon announced that it would be closing its Dallas, Texas distribution center over the sales-tax dispute\n\nAmazon has created subsidiaries that are treated separately for tax matters, a legal technique called \"entity isolation\". The subsidiary that developed the Kindle is in California, but because it doesn't sell the Kindle directly to customers, Amazon's legal position was that it wasn't required to collect sales taxes in California. In the company's financial report for the quarter ending September 30, 2009, the company stated that the imposition of sales-tax collection by more states or Congress could \"decrease our future sales.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "40197612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40197612", "title": "Andorran political reform referendum, 1978", "text": "Andorran political reform referendum, 1978\n\nA referendum on political reforms was held in Andorra on 16 January 1978. Voters were presented with two options, but the none of the above option received the most votes.\n\nIn February 1977, the General Council and the Co-Princes agreed to political reforms, putting forward six options to voters in a referendum in October 1977. However, none of the options received a majority of the vote, and 30% of votes cast were left blank.\n\nA second referendum was planned with voters offered a choice between the proposal that received the most votes in the 1977 referendum, and a new proposal. Proposal 6 had received the most votes in the 1977 referendum, and had been put forward by the Democratic Agrupament d'Andorra. They proposed having the General Council elected by proportional representation with regional lists, together with a directly-elected Prime Minister. The Prime Minister would then appoint a deputy and four ministers. The General Council put forward a new Proposal 7, which would increase the number of parishes from 6 to 7. Each parish would elect four members to the General Council, whilst the Prime Minister would be directly elected.\n"}
{"id": "12878579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12878579", "title": "Animal testing on invertebrates", "text": "Animal testing on invertebrates\n\nMost animal testing involves invertebrates, especially \"Drosophila melanogaster\", a fruit fly, and \"Caenorhabditis elegans\", a nematode. These animals offer scientists many advantages over vertebrates, including their short life cycle, simple anatomy and the ease with which large numbers of individuals may be studied. Invertebrates are often cost-effective, as thousands of flies or nematodes can be housed in a single room.\n\nWith the exception of some cephalopods, invertebrate species are not protected under most animal research legislation, and therefore the total number of invertebrates used remains unknown.\n\nResearch on invertebrates is the foundation for current understanding of the genetics of animal development. \"C. elegans\" is especially valuable as the precise lineage of all the organism's 959 somatic cells is known, giving a complete picture of how this organism goes from a single cell in a fertilized egg, to an adult animal. The genome of this nematode has also been fully sequenced and any one of these genes can easily be inactivated through RNA interference, by feeding the worms antisense RNA. A major success in the work on \"C. elegans\" was the discovery that particular cells are programmed to die during development, leading to the discovery that programmed cell death is an active process under genetic control. The simple nervous system of this nematode allows the effects of genetics on the development of nerves to be studied in detail. However, the lack of an adaptive immune system and the simplicity of its organs prevent \"C. elegans\" from being used in medical research such as vaccine development.\n\nThe fly \"D. melanogaster\" is the most widely used animal in genetic studies. This comes from the simplicity of breeding and housing the flies, which allows large numbers to be used in experiments. Molecular biology is relatively simple in these organisms and a huge variety of mutant and genetically modified flies have been developed. Fly genetics has been vital in the study of development, the cell cycle, behavior, and neuroscience. The similarities in the basic biochemistry of all animals allows flies to be used as simple systems to investigate the genetics of conditions such as heart disease and neurodegenerative disease. However, like nematodes, \"D. melanogaster\" is not widely used in applied medical research, as the fly immune system differs greatly from that found in humans, and diseases in flies can be very different from diseases in humans.\n\nOther uses of invertebrates include studies on social behavior.\n\n\nGeneral\n\nPractical\n\n"}
{"id": "24272703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24272703", "title": "Barry v Davies", "text": "Barry v Davies\n\nBarry v Davies [2000] EWCA Civ 235, [2000] 1 WLR 1962 is an English contract law case which established and confirmed that auction goods being sold without a reserve must be sold to a genuine highest bidder. The principle is subject to exceptions based on illegality, such as illicit goods, a seller without the right to sell the goods, or a buyer without the money or right to buy the goods.\n\nThe auctioneer withdrew goods from an auction (the goods had no reserve price) when a \"bona fide\" (good faith, that is in this case genuine) bid of £200 was effective. The court held that an auctioneer is bound to sell to the highest bidder where there is no reserve price, and cannot withdraw the sale simply because the price is too low. A bid in an auction, the possibility of acceptance of the bid, unless the bid is withdrawn, and the benefit to the auctioneer of driving up the price bid is sufficient consideration. The contract in an auction is between the buyer and the seller, not the buyer and the auctioneer, although the buyer has a collateral agreement with the auctioneer.\n\nThe remedy is the difference between the contract (agreed) value, and the current market value of the goods — per the Sale of Goods Act 1979 s51(3). The value in this case was £27,600.\n\n"}
{"id": "2799538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2799538", "title": "Boundary Treaty of 1970", "text": "Boundary Treaty of 1970\n\nThe 1970 Boundary Treaty between the United States and Mexico settled all then pending boundary disputes and uncertainties related to the Rio Grande (Río Bravo del Norte) border. The most significant dispute remaining after the Chamizal Settlement in 1963 involved the location of the boundary in the area of Presidio, Texas, and Ojinaga, Chihuahua. The river channel was jointly relocated to approximate conditions existing prior to the dispute which arose from changes in the course of the river in 1907. The International Boundary and Water Commission was charged with its implementation. The American-Mexican Treaty Act of October 25, 1972 authorized the United States Section's participation. The project was undertaken in 1975 and completed in 1977.\n\nThe river was relocated in two reaches by construction of a new channel 4.7 miles (8 km) in length in one reach and 3.6 miles (6 km) in the other. The relocated channel was aligned in the reach above Presidio-Ojinaga so as to transfer from north to the south side of the river and in the second reach downstream from the two cities so as to transfer from the south to the north side a net area of . It is an earth channel with dimensions patterned after the natural channel. The United States acquired of American agricultural land that was used for the transfer of lands to Mexico and for half of the river relocation.\n\nAlso, the channel of the Rio Grande in the Hidalgo–Reynosa area was relocated to transfer from Mexico to the United States by constructing a new earth channel 1.6 miles (3 km) in length. This transfer was made in exchange for the transfer from the United States to Mexico of two tracts of land, the Horcón Tract, after 1906 located south of the Rio Grande, and Beaver Island (La Isla de Morteritos), located in the river south of Roma, Texas, comprising in total. This final provision of the treaty transferred to Mexico the portion of the town of Río Rico, Tamaulipas located within the Horcón Tract.\n\nThe total costs of these two relocations were equally shared by the two governments, with the United States performing the greater part of the work required in the Presidio-Ojinaga area, and Mexico performing the work required in the Hidalgo-Reynosa area and a small part of the work required in the Presidio-Ojinaga area.\n\n"}
{"id": "22721097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22721097", "title": "Canadian Motor Vehicle Arbitration Plan", "text": "Canadian Motor Vehicle Arbitration Plan\n\nThe Canadian Motor Vehicle Arbitration Plan (CAMVAP) is a dispute resolution program for consumers in Canada who are experiencing problems with the assembly of their vehicle or with how the manufacturer implements its new-vehicle warranty. CAMVAP covers new, used, owned or leased vehicles from the current model year and up to an additional four model years old. \n\nCAMVAP is an arbitration program, which is free to consumers. Hearings are held in the consumer's home community. The process normally takes less than 70 days from start to finish. Most consumers are able to handle their own case without the assistance of an attorney. The manufacturers do not use attorneys; their representatives are usually current (or retired) district parts and services representatives. A vehicle inspection is normally part of an arbitration hearing, and the arbitrator can order a technical inspection of the vehicle (at the program's expense) if necessary. \n\nCAMVAP is available to owners and lessees of new and used vehicles that were originally purchased or leased in Canada from an authorized dealer (except for BMW and—by extension—MINI, the only car manufacturer which does not participate in the CAMVAP scheme). The owner (or lessee) must be a resident of Canada. Vehicles owned by businesses may be eligible if they meet certain criteria. CAMVAP is available in every Canadian province and territory. \n\nCAMVAP arbitrators can order the manufacturer to:\n\nThe arbitrator can also clear the manufacturer of liability with respect to issues raised by the consumer.\n\n"}
{"id": "363007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=363007", "title": "Chamber of Deputies", "text": "Chamber of Deputies\n\nThe chamber of deputies is the legislative body such as the lower house of a bicameral legislature, or also a unicameral legislature.\n\nHistorically, \"French Chamber of Deputies\" was the lower house of the French Parliament during the Bourbon Restoration, the July Monarchy, and the French Third Republic; the name is still informally used for the National Assembly under the nation's current Fifth Republic.\n\nThe term \"chamber of deputies\" — although it was used as the name of the lower house of parliament in Burma, a former British colony — is not widely used by English-speaking countries, the more popular equivalent being \"House of Representatives\". It was also the official description of Dáil Éireann (the lower house of the Irish parliament) during the period of the Irish Free State.\n\nIn Malta, the House of Representatives is known, in Maltese, as \"Kamra tad-Deputati\". In Lebanon, the literal Arabic name of that country's parliament is \"Majlis an-Nuwwab\", or, \"Chamber of Deputies\" (although officially used French and English translations are \"Assemblée Nationale\" and \"National Assembly\", respectively).\n\nA member of a \"chamber of deputies\" is generally called a \"deputy\", the definition of which is similar to that of \"congressperson\" or \"member of parliament\". The term \"deputy\" may be used to refer to any member of a legislative body or chamber; this usage is particularly common in those French- and Spanish-speaking countries whose parliaments or legislative chambers refer to themselves as \"national assemblies\"; the term is also used by Portugal's Assembly of the Republic, and often in Ireland as a form of address when referring to members of Dáil Éireann.\n\nIn the following countries, the Chamber of Deputies is the name of the lower house of the bicameral legislature.\n\nIn the following countries, 'Chamber of Deputies' is the name given to the unicameral parliaments :\n\n\n<br>\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "52704756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52704756", "title": "Civil naming ceremony", "text": "Civil naming ceremony\n\nA civil naming ceremony is a non-religious ceremony symbolising the entry of a newborn into society. It is performed at the local registry office and contrasts with the religious baptism performed by church authorities. Civil naming ceremonies have no legal character and instead confer moral obligations to the parents and godparents.\n\nIn Continental Europe, the equivalent concept is a civil baptism at the municipal town hall.\n\nIn France, the civil baptism (or republican baptism) originated from the Law of 20 Prairial, Year II (8 June 1794) relative to the civil status. Reserved for municipal authorities. A civil baptism can be performed on all minors aged under 13 years, but their godparents must be adults.\n\nIt fell out of practice in the 19th century, but restarted in 1892 by the socialist commune of Saint-Denis, in order to reduce the influence of religion on children. It was very popular during the Belle Époque in the north of France, before becoming rare.\n\nThe civil naming ceremony is a ceremony practiced by local councils in the United Kingdom to provide a non-religious alternative for families. The ceremony is performed by the local civil registrar or an appointed official and a commemorative certificate is usually provided.\n\nCivil naming ceremonies have no legal standing and are separate from birth registration which is a legal requirement.\n\nIn France, republican baptisms are performed by an elected French local government official, usually the mayor at the town hall free of charge. It confers a moral obligation for godparents to look after the children in the case of a family breakdown or death.\n\nCivil baptisms are practiced in many municipalities and is regaining popularity. In Rennes, there is on average 80 civil baptisms a year. In 2015, 181 civil baptisms were counted in Lyon, 135 in Nantes (+15%), 12 at Vesoul and 325 in Paris. In Paris, only 13 of the 20 arrondissements practice civil baptisms. The municipalities may also choose not to celebrate civil baptisms.\n\nOn 1 April 2015, Yves Daudigny proposed a law giving legal status to civil baptisms. The purpose of the bill is to create a standardised procedure throughout France and to give republican baptisms a legal framework so that \"in the case of a breakdown, [parents can] be supplemented by godparents and in any case, that they will take part in contributing to the development of the indispensable qualities in a child's character which will allow him/her to become a citizen devoted to the public good, driven by the feelings of fraternity, understanding and respect for the liberty and solidarity of his/her peers.\" The text had its first reading at the National Assembly on the 21st May 2015.\n\nAs of 2015 there is no national law regulating civil baptisms. Civil baptisms are carried out by local government officials on the will of the celebrants and confer a moral obligation.\n\nThe first municipality to celebrate civil baptisms in Spain was Igualada (Barcelona), on the 7 of November 2004. In 2007, the second municipality of Rivas-Vaciamadrid (Madrid) and in 2009 El Borge (Málaga) and the city of Madrid.\n\nDuring the ceremony, the local government official reads the Convention on the Rights of the Child or the Spanish Constitution of 1978, particularly those related to the education, rights and fundamental liberties of the child. It is possible for the family to include complementary texts and pieces of music. The ceremony conflicts with the stamping of the citizenship card. In Rivas-Vaciamadrid, the local government official hands the family a gift and provides information on local services for children.\n\n"}
{"id": "11273863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11273863", "title": "Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina (, \"Уставни суд Босне и Херцеговине\") is a special court \"sui generis\", whose main role is to be the interpreter and guardian of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as stated in Article VI, paragraph 3 of the Dayton Peace Accords entitled \"the Constitution\" (\"The Constitutional Court shall uphold this Constitution\"). It is considered to be the second-highest judicial authority, since it has the appellate jurisdiction over issues under the Constitution arising out of a judgment of any other court in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and is subjected to abiding decisions by a foreign High Representative (Article VI, paragraph 3.b).\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina provides a rare example of a country in transition from a socialist system which nevertheless has a history of having a constitutional court, since the former Yugoslavia was the only country which had a system of the constitutional courts already in socialist regime. The first Constitutional Court in former Yugoslavia was created as early as 1963. This date coincided with the starting point of the history of a constitutional court in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In accordance with the federal structure of the former SFRY, not only was there a Constitutional Court at the federal level, but prior to the dissolution of former Yugoslavia, the six Republics and even the two Autonomous Provinces – Kosovo and Vojvodina – also had their own Constitutional Courts.\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina was established for the first time on 15 February 1964 pursuant to the Constitution of 1963. Its existence was confirmed in the Constitution of 1974. The jurisdiction of this Constitutional Court consisted primarily of an abstract normative control. Thus, it would take decisions as to the conformity of the (Republic’s) laws with the Constitution, and as to the constitutionality and legality of other regulations and general and self-management acts. It would also be called upon to resolve disputes between the Republic and other political-territorial units, in particular, conflicts of jurisdiction as between the courts and other bodies of political-territorial units. The 'Law on the Constitutional Court' regulated issues concerning the organization, jurisdiction and procedures before this Constitutional Court.\n\nThe role and jurisdiction of the Constitutional court was redefined in the Dayton Peace Agreement (Annex IV - Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article VI).\n\nIn general, the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court is defined under Article VI.3 and Article IV.3 of the Constitution. Within its overriding duty to 'uphold' the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it consists of five types of jurisdiction. The proceedings to be followed and type of decision to be given will depend upon the type concerned and the nature of the case.\n\nEssentially, the distinction between these various types of jurisdiction is based on the extent to which the Constitutional Court, in addition to the classical task of upholding constitutionality, also has, in certain types of disputes, a more direct relation with the judicial or legislative authority concerned.\n\nDisputes arising under conflict of jurisdiction\n\nThe Constitutional Court has exclusive jurisdiction to decide any dispute that arises under the Constitution between the Entities or between Bosnia and Herzegovina and an Entity or Entities, or between institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In effect, the Court has to decide on positive or negative conflicts of jurisdiction, or any other disputes that may arise under relations between the state and entity authority and/or the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nReview of constitutionality of laws\n\nThe Constitutional Court has jurisdiction over issues whether any provision of an Entity's constitution or a law of an Entity is compatible with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nAlthough, the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina explicitly focuses only on 'provisions of an Entity's law', this also implies a review of constitutionality of laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with the general task of the Court to uphold the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. \n\nIn special cases, the Court also has jurisdiction to examine whether an Entity's decision to establish a special parallel relationship with a neighboring state is consistent with the Constitution including provisions concerning the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. \n\nReferral of disputes\n\nIn both presented cases, under the Constitution, disputes may be referred only by the following authorized parties: a member of the Presidency, the Chair of the Council of Ministers, the Chair or a Deputy Chair of either chamber of the Parliamentary Assembly, one-fourth of the members of either chamber of the Parliamentary Assembly, or one-fourth of either chamber of a legislature of an Entity.\n\nThe appellate jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court is established by the constitutional provision according to which the Constitutional Court \"shall have appellate jurisdiction over issues under this Constitution arising out of a judgement of any other court in Bosnia and Herzegovina\".\n\nThis implies that the Constitutional Court is the highest judicial body in the land. This confirms its role as being a special institutional safe-guard for the protection of the rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution.\n\nThis provision is effected through the Rules of the Constitutional Court so the Court, if it finds an appeal well-founded, may act in one of two ways: the Court may act as a court of full jurisdiction and it may decide on the merits or it may quash the challenged decision and refer the case back to the court that adopted the judgement for renewed proceedings. The court whose decision has been quashed is required to take another decision in expedient proceedings and, in doing so, it shall be bound by the legal opinion of the Constitutional Court concerning the violation of the appellant’s rights and the fundamental freedoms guaranteed under the Constitution.\n\nAppellants, who believe that the judgement or other decision of any court is in violation of their rights, have the right to lodge an appeal after all legal remedies have been exhausted while the Court shall also consider the effectiveness of possible legal remedies.\n\nThe Constitutional Court has jurisdiction over issues referred by any court in Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning whether a law, on whose validity its decision depends, is compatible with this Constitution, with the European Convention on Human Rights and its Protocols, or with the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina; or concerning the existence of or the scope of a general rule of public international law.\n\nIn general, the Constitutional Court may uphold a law pertinent to the lower court's decision or proclaim it invalid. The latter shall be required to proceed pursuant to the decision of the Constitutional Court.\n\nThe jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court in the case of 'blockage' of the work of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning an issue of destructiveness to the vital interest of constituent peoples, represents in many ways a typical area of activity of a constitutional court, as this represents a close 'interface' between the \"judicial\" and \"legislative\" authorities.\n\nThe Constitutional Court here resolves a dispute in which a proposed decision of the Parliamentary Assembly, according to the opinion of a majority of the delegates representing any of the three constituent peoples in the House of Peoples, is considered to be destructive to the vital national interest, whilst at the same time all 'parliamentary means' for the resolution of this issue in the House of Peoples have been exhausted.\n\nThe Constitutional Court consists of nine judges, out of which four are selected by the House of Representatives of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, two are selected by National Assembly of the Republic of Srpska, and the remaining three members are selected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights after consultation with the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Article VI.1.a). \nThe Constitution also states (Article VI.1.b) that the judges must be \"distinguished jurists of high moral standing\", and that any eligible voter so qualified may serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court. The judges selected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights cannot be citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina or of any neighbouring state. \n\nThe term of judges that were initially appointed was five years, and were not eligible for reappointment. Judges subsequently appointed could serve until age 70, unless they resigned or were removed for cause by consensus of the other judges. The Constitution also states that for appointments made more than five years after the initial appointment of judges, the Parliamentary Assembly could provide by law for a different method of selection of the three judges selected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights, however it has still not changed that.\n\nIt should also be noted that the Constitution does not require the proportionality of the \"constituent peoples\" in the Court, however a constitutional custom developed by which a Constitutional court should have two judges from every of the constituent peoples (Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats), besides the three foreign judges. \n\nCurrent composition of the Court:\n\n\nFormer Judges:\n\n\nThe way the judges are selected has created controversies over the years. Since there are no other criteria or formal guidelines besides the criteria that judges should be \"distinguished jurists of high moral standing\", this has led to a situation that it is easier to become a judge of the national constitutional court then the judge of a lower court, since that position has more requirements and specific process of vetting. Also, political influence has a great part in the appointment of judges, so persons with very active political carriers have been chosen by the parliaments of entities, like the current judges Seada Palavrić and Mirsad Ćeman (former longtime members of SDA party) or Krstan Simić (member of SNSD party before his selection). Judge Krstan Simić was subsequently dismissed from the Court by the consensus of other judges, because of his controversial correspondence with his former party leader.\n\nDecision on the constituency of peoples is the landmark case of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, instituted for an evaluation of the consistency of the Constitution of the Republika Srpska and the Constitution of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The four partial decisions were made in a year 2000, by which many of articles of the constitutions of entities were found to be unconstitutional, which had a great impact on politics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because there was a need to adjust the current state in the country with the decision of the Court. There was a narrow majority (5-4), in the favor of the applicant.\n\nThe formal name of this item is \"U-5/98\", but it is widely known as the \"Decision on the constituency of peoples\" (), referring to the Court's interpretation of the significance of the phrase \"constituent peoples\" used in the Preamble of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The decision was also the basis for other notable cases that came before the court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15637876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15637876", "title": "Constitutional Court of Georgia", "text": "Constitutional Court of Georgia\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Georgia is the judicial body of constitutional review, having the greatest significance with the view of securing constitutional provisions and separation of powers, and protecting human rights and freedoms.\n\nThe Constitutional Court was established in 1996. The legal basis of its organisation and activity is the Constitution of Georgia, the Organic Law of Georgia \"On the Constitutional Court of Georgia\", the Law of Georgia \"On the Constitutional Legal Proceedings\" and the Rules of the Constitutional Court. In 2002 the aforementioned legislative basis was improved, amendments moved to the Organic Law of Georgia \"On the Constitutional Court of Georgia\" and to the Law of Georgia \"On the Constitutional Legal Proceedings\", the constitutional legal proceedings being made simplified and more expeditious. The Constitutional Court of Georgia was moved from Tbilisi to Batumi on 5 July 2007.\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Georgia consists of nine judges. All three branches of state powers participate in the formation of the Constitutional Court on an equal basis—three members are appointed by the President of Georgia, three members are elected by the Parliament by not less than three-fifths of the number of the members of the Parliament on the current nominal list, and three members are appointed by the Supreme Court. The term of office of a judge of the Constitutional Court is ten years. \n\nA member of the Constitutional Court is independent in carrying out his/her duties. He/she evaluates the factual circumstances and reaches a decision only in accordance with the Constitution of Georgia. Interference in the activity of a member of the Constitutional Court is impermissible. The Constitution secures the personal immunity of a member of the Constitutional Court. The legislation provides for other guarantees with the view of securing independent activity of a member of the Court. \n\nThe Constitutional Court of Georgia elects the President of the Constitutional Court among its composition for a term of five years. A candidate to the office of the President of the Court is nominated by an agreed proposal of the President of Georgia, the President of the Parliament of Georgia and the President of the Supreme Court of Georgia. The President of the Court may not be re-elected. The President of the Constitutional Court convenes and presides over the sittings of the Plenum of the Constitutional Court, signs the acts passed by the Plenum, submits the Rules of the Constitutional Court and the By-law of the Staff to the Plenum for approval, allocates the constitutional claims and constitutional submissions, maintains general guidance over the functioning of the Staff of the Constitutional Court, appoints and dismisses staff members, disposes of the budgetary assignations of the Constitutional Court, discharges other authority defined by the legislation and the Rules of the Constitutional Court. \n\nTwo Vice-Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Secretary to the Court are elected by the Plenum upon the submission of the President of the Constitutional Court for a term of 5 years. A Vice-President may not be re-elected. \n\nA Vice-President of the Constitutional Court presides over sittings of a Board, performs particular functions under the instructions of the President of the Constitutional Court. In case of absence of the President of the Court or his/her inability to perform functions, one of the Vice-Presidents acts on the President’s behalf under the instructions of the latter. \n\nThe Secretary to the Constitutional Court is in charge of preparatory measures of the sittings of the Plenum and Boards, organises the maintenance and lay out of the minutes of the sittings and dispatch of formal documentation, takes measures with the view of enforcing judgments of the Constitutional Court etc. \n\nThe Constitutional Court of Georgia consists of the Plenum and two Boards. There are all nine members of the Constitutional Court represented on the Plenum. Each of the Boards consists of four judges. The composition of the Boards is approved by the Plenum upon the submission of the President of the Court. While considering and adjudicating upon a case, a Board acts as the Constitutional Court. \n\nThose entitled to lodge a constitutional claim or a constitutional submission with the Constitutional Court are: the President of Georgia, not less than one fifth of the members of the Parliament of Georgia, a court of general jurisdiction, the higher representative bodies of Abkhazia and of the Autonomous Republic of Ajara, the Public Defender, legal entities of Georgia, citizens of Georgia and other individuals residing in Georgia.\n\nThe Plenum:\n\nA Board may consider:\n\nSince its establishment the Constitutional Court of Georgia has received 422 constitutional claims and 17 constitutional submissions. 34 constitutional claims have not been admitted for the consideration of the merits. The Constitutional Court has upheld 34 constitutional claims. 31 constitutional claims have been upheld partially. 59 constitutional claims have been rejected. The constitutional legal proceedings have ceased on various grounds in respect of 206 cases. \n\nThe Staff of the Constitutional Court provides the accomplishment of legal, organisational, personnel, financial and logistical issues. The Staff is guided by the Chief of the Staff. There are the following units in the Staff : Secretariat of the President of the Constitutional Court of Georgia, Offices of the Vice-Presidents of the Constitutional Court of Georgia, Offices of the Secretary to the Constitutional Court of Georgia and of the members of the Constitutional Court of Georgia, Legal Department, Financial-Logistical Department, Chancellery, Personnel Department, Editorial-Publishing Department, International Relations Department. \n\nThe Constitutional Court of Georgia maintains active relations with international organisations and Constitutional Courts of other countries. The Constitutional Court of Georgia is a full member of the Conference of European Constitutional Courts.\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Georgia co-operates with the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe \"Democracy through Law\". Within the framework of co-operation with the Venice Commission an annual international scientific-practical seminar is held on the subject of \"actual problems of the Constitutional Court\".\n\nThe Constitutional Court has opened up relations and co-operated with the following organisations: OSCE, UNDP, GTZ, ABA, USAID, COLPI etc. \n\nWith the support provided by the ABA annual Legal Olympiad \"Individual and Constitution\" is held for pupils and students in the Constitutional Court, which aims at popularising the activity of the Constitutional Court and raising young people’s knowledge in the field.\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Georgia runs active editorial-publishing activity. A quarterly law journal \"Individual and Constitution\" is issued. Several issues of the Constitution of Georgia, inter alia in foreign languages, have been printed. The legislation on the Constitutional Court, the trilingual collections of judgments of the Constitutional Court have been issued. The first scientific-practical commentaries on the Constitution of Georgia are being prepared.\n\n"}
{"id": "32585752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32585752", "title": "Copyright law of Indonesia", "text": "Copyright law of Indonesia\n\nCopyright law of Indonesia is set out in the Copyright Act, namely, current, Act No. 19 of 2002. In law, the notion of copyright is \"the exclusive rights for the creator or the recipient the right to publish or reproduce the creations or give permission for it by not reducing the restrictions according to the laws and regulations that apply\" (Article 1, point 1).\n\nIn 1958, Prime Minister Djuanda declared Indonesia joined the Berne Convention so that Indonesia could take advantage of the intellectual work, creativity, and initiative from foreign nations without having to pay royalties.\n\nIn 1982, the Government of Indonesia revoked the copyright act \"Auteurswet Staatsblad 1912\" and enacted Act No. 6 of 1982 on Copyright. The law was later amended by Law No. 7 of 1987, Act No. 12 of 1997, and Law No. 19 of 2002.\n\nChanges in legislation are also inseparable from the role of Indonesia in the association between countries. In Law No. 7 of 1994, the government ratified the establishment of the World Trade Organization, which includes the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. In 1997, the government ratified the Berne Convention through Presidential Decree No. 18 of 1997 and also ratified the World Intellectual Property Organization Copyright Treaty through Presidential Decree No. 19 of 1997.\n\nThe following organisations are involved in protecting copyright in Indonesia.\n"}
{"id": "3502762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3502762", "title": "Daniel v. Waters", "text": "Daniel v. Waters\n\nDaniel v. Waters, 515 F.2d 485 (6th Cir. 1975) was a 1975 legal case in which the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit struck down Tennessee's law regarding the teaching of \"equal time\" of evolution and creationism in public school science classes because it violated the Establishment clause of the US Constitution.\n\nThe plaintiffs were school teachers supported by the National Association of Biology Teachers.\n\nVarious state laws prohibiting the teaching of evolution had been introduced during the 1920s. These laws were challenged in 1968 in the case \"Epperson v. Arkansas\", which established that such laws were to be held in violation of the constitutional separation of Church and State. The creationist movement reacted to the decision by turning to the promotion of the teaching of creationism in school science classes as equal to evolutionary theory.\n\nThe Tennessee law stated, \"Any biology textbook used for teaching in the public schools, which expresses an opinion of, or relates a theory about origins or creation of man and his world shall [give] . . . an equal amount of emphasis on . . . the Genesis account in the Bible.\" (Public Acts of Tennessee, 1973, Chapter 377, cited in LaFollette, 1983, p. 80)\n\nThe Federal District Court ruling was that the Tennessee law was \"a clearly defined preferential position for the Biblical version of creation as opposed to any account of the development of man based on scientific research and reasoning. For a state to seek to enforce such preference by law is to seek to accomplish the very establishment of religion which the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States squarely forbids.\" \n\nThe ruling did not prevent the Bible from being taught in public schools in an appropriate way. The Court stated (quoting from a prior decision): \"While study of religions and of the Bible from a literary and historic viewpoint, presented objectively as part of a secular program of education, need not collide with the First Amendment's prohibition, the State may not adopt programs or practices in its public schools or colleges which \"aid or oppose\" any religion.\"\n\nFollowing this ruling, several states then passed new legislation which required that creation science be given equal time with teaching of evolution. This came to court as \"McLean v. Arkansas\" (1982), which resulted in a detailed ruling that it was similarly unconstitutional to teach this in public school science classes. This was a District level ruling and, while setting a persuasive precedent, it was only a binding precedent in the relevant district. It was not until \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" (1987), a similar case in Louisiana, was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court that creation science was ruled unconstitutional at the federal level, which resulted in its removal from public school science classes nationwide. The reaction from the creationist forces would be to create the new concept of intelligent design specifically in order to circumvent this ruling.\n"}
{"id": "6774312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6774312", "title": "Debtors (Scotland) Act 1838", "text": "Debtors (Scotland) Act 1838\n\nThe Debtors (Scotland) Act 1838 (1 & 2 Vict. c. 114), sometimes the Personal Diligence Act, was an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom, signed into law on 16 August 1838. It amended the law of Scotland in matters relating to personal diligence - the ways in which the person or property of a debtor could be secured - arrestments and poindings (pronounced pindings). The effect was to simplify the form of proceedings and reduce their expense.\n\n"}
{"id": "9156236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9156236", "title": "Edict of Wieluń", "text": "Edict of Wieluń\n\nThe Edict of Wieluń was a 1424 law issued in Wieluń by King of Poland Władysław II Jagiełło under pressure from the Catholic Church. The edict outlawed Hussitism and represented a temporary regression for the Kingdom of Poland, which had a long tradition of religious toleration.\n\nUpon the law, participation of citizens of Poland in the Hussite movement was punished as high treason. Properties of Poles residing in Bohemia were to be confiscated if they did not return to Poland in a defined time. Furthermore, they were to lose their noble status. Another purpose of the edict was to warn citizens of Poland that any contacts with Hussites were to be punished as an offence against the dignity of the King. Local starostas and courts were ordered to prosecute all suspects and hand them over to church courts.\n\nExcerpts of the Edict of Wieluń:\n\n\"We, Wladyslaw, by the grace of God King of Poland, state that whoever in our Kingdom of Poland and in our lands turns out to be a heretic or a supporter of heresy, this person must be captured by our starostas and other civil servants, as well as all our subjects. This person shall be regarded as offender of our Majesty, and shall be punished accordingly to their offence (...) If any of our subjects neglected to return from Bohemia until the coming holiday, this person shall be regarded as a heretic, and punished as a heretic. All his properties shall be confiscated by our treasury, and his offspring shall be deprived of all honors and status (...) We also forbid all merchants and other persons from transporting all goods, including lead, weapons and foods, to and from Bohemia\".\n\nSigned in Wieluń on the White Sunday (April 9), Anno Domini 1424. \n\n"}
{"id": "1954570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1954570", "title": "European Single Market", "text": "European Single Market\n\nThe European Single Market, Internal Market or Common Market is a single market which seeks to guarantee the free movement of goods, capital, services, and labour – the \"four freedoms\" – within the European Union (EU). The market encompasses the EU's 28 member states, and has been extended, with exceptions, to Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway through the Agreement on the European Economic Area and to Switzerland through bilateral treaties.\n\nA number of potential EU accession candidates have Stabilisation and Association Agreements with the EU, which allow for limited participation in selected sectors of the Single Market, including Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, and Serbia. In addition, through three individual agreements on a Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area (DCFTA) with the EU, the post-Soviet countries of Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine have also been granted limited access to the Single Market in selected sectors. Turkey has access to the free movement of some goods via its membership in the European Union–Turkey Customs Union.\n\nThe market is intended to be conducive to increased competition, increased specialisation, larger economies of scale, allowing goods and factors of production to move to the area where they are most valued, thus improving the efficiency of the allocation of resources. It is also intended to drive economic integration whereby the once separate economies of the member states become integrated within a single EU-wide economy. Half the trade in goods within the EU is covered by legislation harmonised by the EU. The creation of the internal market as a seamless, single market is an ongoing process, with the integration of the service industry still containing gaps. It also has an increasing international element, with the market represented as one in international trade negotiations.\n\nOne of the original core objectives of the European Economic Community (EEC) was the development of a common market offering free movement of goods, service, people and capital (see below). Free movement of goods was established in principle through the customs union between its then-six member states.\n\nHowever the EEC struggled to enforce a single market due to the absence of strong decision-making structures. It was difficult to remove intangible barriers with mutual recognition of standards and common regulations due to protectionist attitudes.\n\nIn the 1980s, when the economy of the EEC began to lag behind the rest of the developed world, Margaret Thatcher sent Arthur Cockfield, Baron Cockfield, to the Delors Commission to take the initiative to attempt to relaunch the common market. Cockfield wrote and published a White Paper in 1985 identifying 300 measures to be addressed in order to complete a single market. The White Paper was well received and led to the adoption of the Single European Act, a treaty which reformed the decision-making mechanisms of the EEC and set a deadline of 31 December 1992 for the completion of a single market. In the end, it was launched on 1 January 1993.\n\nThe new approach, pioneered at the Delors Commission, combined positive and negative integration, relying upon minimum rather than exhaustive harmonisation. Negative integration consists of prohibitions imposed on member states banning discriminatory behaviour and other restrictive practices. Positive integration consists of approximating laws and standards. Especially important (and controversial) in this respect is the adoption of harmonising legislation under Article 114 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).\n\nThe Commission also relied upon the European Court of Justice's \"Cassis de Dijon\" jurisprudence, under which member states were obliged to recognise goods which had been legally produced in another member state, unless the member state could justify the restriction by reference to a mandatory requirement. Harmonisation would only be used to overcome barriers created by trade restrictions which survived the \"Cassis\" mandatory requirements test, and to ensure essential standards where there was a risk of a race to the bottom. Thus harmonisation was largely used to ensure basic health and safety standards were met.\n\nBy 1992 about 90% of the issues had been resolved and in the same year the Maastricht Treaty set about to create an Economic and Monetary Union as the next stage of integration. Work on freedom for services did take longer, and was the last freedom to be implemented, mainly through the Posting of Workers Directive (adopted in 1996)<ref name=\"Directive 96/71/EC\">Directive 96/71/EC</ref> and the Directive on services in the internal market (adopted in 2006).<ref name=\"Directive 2006/123/EC\">Directive 2006/123/EC</ref>\n\nIn 1997 the Amsterdam Treaty abolished physical barriers across the internal market by incorporating the Schengen Area within the competences of the EU. The Schengen Agreement implements the abolition of border controls between most member states, common rules on visas, and police and judicial co-operation.\n\nEven as the Lisbon Treaty came into force in 2009 however, some areas pertaining parts of the four freedoms (especially in the field of services) had not yet been completely opened. Those, along with further work on the economic and monetary union, would see the EU move further to a \"European Home Market\".\n\nThe European Union is also a customs union. This means that member states have removed customs barriers between themselves and introduced a common customs policy towards other countries. The overall purpose of the duties is \"to ensure normal conditions of competition and to remove all restrictions of a fiscal nature capable of hindering the free movement of goods within the Common Market\".\n\nBy agreement between the Union and the states concerned, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino and Turkey also participate in the EU Customs Union.\n\nArticle 30 TFEU prohibits member states from levying any duties on goods crossing its border with a fellow member state and covers both goods produced within the EUCU and those produced outside. Once a good has been imported into the EUCU from a third country and the appropriate customs duty paid, Article 29 TFEU dictates that it shall then be considered to be in free circulation between the member states.\n\nNeither the purpose of the charge, nor its name in domestic law, is relevant.\n\nSince the Single European Act, there can be no systematic customs controls at the borders of member states. The emphasis is on post-import audit controls and risk analysis. Physical controls of imports and exports now occur at traders' premises, rather than at the territorial borders.\n\nArticle 30 of the TFEU prohibits not only customs duties but also charges having equivalent effect. The European Court of Justice defined \"charge having equivalent effect\" in \"Commission v Italy\".\n\nA charge is a customs duty if it is proportionate to the value of the goods; if it is proportionate to the quantity, it is a charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty.\n\nThere are three exceptions to the prohibition on charges imposed when goods cross a border, listed in Case 18/87 Commission v Germany. A charge is not a customs duty or charge having equivalent effect if:\n\nArticle 110 of the TFEU provides:\n\nIn the \"taxation of rum case\", the ECJ stated that:\n\nFree movement of goods within the European Union is achieved by a customs union and the principle of non-discrimination. The EU manages imports from non-member states, duties between member states are prohibited, and imports circulate freely. In addition under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union article 34, ‘Quantitative restrictions on imports and all measures having equivalent effect shall be prohibited between Member States’. In \"Procureur du Roi v Dassonville\" the Court of Justice held that this rule meant all \"trading rules\" that are \"enacted by Member States\" which could hinder trade \"directly or indirectly, actually or potentially\" would be caught by article 34. This meant that a Belgian law requiring Scotch whisky imports to have a certificate of origin was unlikely to be lawful. It discriminated against parallel importers like Mr Dassonville, who could not get certificates from authorities in France, where they bought the Scotch. This \"wide test\", to determine what could potentially be an unlawful restriction on trade, applies equally to actions by quasi-government bodies, such as the former \"Buy Irish\" company that had government appointees. It also means states can be responsible for private actors. For instance, in \"Commission v France\" French farmer vigilantes were continually sabotaging shipments of Spanish strawberries, and even Belgian tomato imports. France was liable for these hindrances to trade because the authorities \"manifestly and persistently abstained\" from preventing the sabotage. Generally speaking, if a member state has laws or practices that directly discriminate against imports (or exports under TFEU article 35) then it must be justified under article 36. The justifications include public morality, policy or security, \"protection of health and life of humans, animals or plants\", \"national treasures\" of \"artistic, historic or archaeological value\" and \"industrial and commercial property\". In addition, although not clearly listed, environmental protection can justify restrictions on trade as an over-riding requirement derived from TFEU article 11. More generally, it has been increasingly acknowledged that fundamental human rights should take priority over all trade rules. So, in \"Schmidberger v Austria\" the Court of Justice held that Austria did not infringe article 34 by failing to ban a protest that blocked heavy traffic passing over the A13, Brenner Autobahn, en route to Italy. Although many companies, including Mr Schmidberger's German undertaking, were prevented from trading, the Court of Justice reasoned that freedom of association is one of the \"fundamental pillars of a democratic society\", against which the free movement of goods had to be balanced, and was probably subordinate. If a member state does appeal to the article 36 justification, the measures it takes have to be applied proportionately. This means the rule must be pursue a legitimate aim and (1) be suitable to achieve the aim, (2) be necessary, so that a less restrictive measure could not achieve the same result, and (3) be reasonable in balancing the interests of free trade with interests in article 36.\nOften rules apply to all goods neutrally, but may have a greater practical effect on imports than domestic products. For such \"indirect\" discriminatory (or \"indistinctly applicable\") measures the Court of Justice has developed more justifications: either those in article 36, or additional \"mandatory\" or \"overriding\" requirements such as consumer protection, improving labour standards, protecting the environment, press diversity, fairness in commerce, and more: the categories are not closed. In the most famous case \"Rewe-Zentral AG v Bundesmonopol für Branntwein\", the Court of Justice found that a German law requiring all spirits and liqueurs (not just imported ones) to have a minimum alcohol content of 25 per cent was contrary to TFEU article 34, because it had a greater negative effect on imports. German liqueurs were over 25 per cent alcohol, but Cassis de Dijon, which Rewe-Zentrale AG wished to import from France, only had 15 to 20 per cent alcohol. The Court of Justice rejected the German government's arguments that the measure proportionately protected public health under TFEU article 36, because stronger beverages were available and adequate labelling would be enough for consumers to understand what they bought. This rule primarily applies to requirements about a product's content or packaging. In \"Walter Rau Lebensmittelwerke v De Smedt PVBA\" the Court of Justice found that a Belgian law requiring all margarine to be in cube shaped packages infringed article 34, and was not justified by the pursuit of consumer protection. The argument that Belgians would believe it was butter if it was not cube shaped was disproportionate: it would \"considerably exceed the requirements of the object in view\" and labelling would protect consumers \"just as effectively\". In a 2003 case, \"Commission v Italy\" Italian law required that cocoa products that included other vegetable fats could not be labelled as \"chocolate\". It had to be \"chocolate substitute\". All Italian chocolate was made from cocoa butter alone, but British, Danish and Irish manufacturers used other vegetable fats. They claimed the law infringed article 34. The Court of Justice held that a low content of vegetable fat did not justify a \"chocolate substitute\" label. This was derogatory in the consumers' eyes. A \"neutral and objective statement\" was enough to protect consumers. If member states place considerable obstacles on the use of a product, this can also infringe article 34. So, in a 2009 case, \"Commission v Italy\", the Court of Justice held that an Italian law prohibiting motorcycles or mopeds pulling trailers infringed article 34. Again, the law applied neutrally to everyone, but disproportionately affected importers, because Italian companies did not make trailers. This was not a product requirement, but the Court reasoned that the prohibition would deter people from buying it: it would have \"a considerable influence on the behaviour of consumers\" that \"affects the access of that product to the market\". It would require justification under article 36, or as a mandatory requirement.\n\nIn contrast to product requirements or other laws that hinder market access, the Court of Justice developed a presumption that \"selling arrangements\" would be presumed to not fall into TFEU article 34, if they applied equally to all sellers, and affected them in the same manner in fact. In \"Keck and Mithouard\" two importers claimed that their prosecution under a French competition law, which prevented them selling Picon beer under wholesale price, was unlawful. The aim of the law was to prevent cut throat competition, not to hinder trade. The Court of Justice held, as \"in law and in fact\" it was an equally applicable \"selling arrangement\" (not something that alters a product's content) it was outside the scope of article 34, and so did not need to be justified. Selling arrangements can be held to have an unequal effect \"in fact\" particularly where traders from another member state are seeking to break into the market, but there are restrictions on advertising and marketing. In \"Konsumentombudsmannen v De Agostini\" the Court of Justice reviewed Swedish bans on advertising to children under age 12, and misleading commercials for skin care products. While the bans have remained (justifiable under article 36 or as a mandatory requirement) the Court emphasised that complete marketing bans could be disproportionate if advertising were \"the only effective form of promotion enabling [a trader] to penetrate\" the market. In \"Konsumentombudsmannen v Gourmet AB\" the Court suggested that a total ban for advertising alcohol on the radio, TV and in magazines could fall within article 34 where advertising was the only way for sellers to overcome consumers' \"traditional social practices and to local habits and customs\" to buy their products, but again the national courts would decide whether it was justified under article 36 to protect public health. Under the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive, the EU harmonised restrictions on restrictions on marketing and advertising, to forbid conduct that distorts average consumer behaviour, is misleading or aggressive, and sets out a list of examples that count as unfair. Increasingly, states have to give mutual recognition to each other's standards of regulation, while the EU has attempted to harmonise minimum ideals of best practice. The attempt to raise standards is hoped to avoid a regulatory \"race to the bottom\", while allowing consumers access to goods from around the continent.\n\nFree movement of capital was traditionally seen as the fourth freedom, after goods, workers and persons, services and establishment. The original Treaty of Rome required that restrictions on free capital flows only be removed to the extent necessary for the common market. From the Treaty of Maastricht, now in TFEU article 63, \"all restrictions on the movement of capital between Member States and between Member States and third countries shall be prohibited\". This means capital controls of various kinds are prohibited, including limits on buying currency, limits on buying company shares or financial assets, or government approval requirements for foreign investment. By contrast, taxation of capital, including corporate tax, capital gains tax and financial transaction tax, are not affected so long as they do not discriminate by nationality. According to the Capital Movement Directive 1988, Annex I, 13 categories of capital which must move free are covered. In \"Baars v Inspecteur der Belastingen Particulieren\" the Court of Justice held that for investments in companies, the capital rules, rather than freedom of establishment rules, were engaged if an investment did not enable a \"definite influence\" through shareholder voting or other rights by the investor. That case held a Dutch Wealth Tax Act 1964 unjustifiably exempted Dutch investments, but not Mr Baars' investments in an Irish company, from the tax: the wealth tax, or exemptions, had to be applied equally. On the other hand, TFEU article 65(1) does not prevent taxes that distinguish taxpayers based on their residence or the location of an investment (as taxes commonly focus on a person's actual source of profit) or any measures to prevent tax evasion. Apart from tax cases, largely following from the opinions of Advocate General Maduro, a series of cases held that government owned golden shares were unlawful. In \"Commission v Germany\" the Commission claimed the German Volkswagen Act 1960 violated article 63, in that §2(1) restricted any party having voting rights exceeding 20% of the company, and §4(3) allowed a minority of 20% of shares held by the Lower Saxony government to block any decisions. Although this was not an impediment to actual purchase of shares, or receipt of dividends by any shareholder, the Court of Justice's Grand Chamber agreed that it was disproportionate for the government's stated aim of protecting workers or minority shareholders. Similarly, in \"Commission v Portugal\" the Court of Justice held that Portugal infringed free movement of capital by retaining golden shares in Portugal Telecom that enabled disproportionate voting rights, by creating a \"deterrent effect on portfolio investments\" and reduing \"the attractiveness of an investment\". This suggested the Court's preference that a government, if it sought public ownership or control, should nationalise in full the desired proportion of a company in line with TFEU article 345.\n\nCapital within the EU may be transferred in any amount from one country to another (except that Greece currently has capital controls restricting outflows, and Cyprus imposed capital controls between 2013 and April 2015). All intra-EU transfers in euro are considered as domestic payments and bear the corresponding domestic transfer costs. This includes all member States of the EU, even those outside the eurozone providing the transactions are carried out in euro. Credit/debit card charging and ATM withdrawals within the Eurozone are also charged as domestic; however, paper-based payment orders, like cheques, have not been standardised so these are still domestic-based. The ECB has also set up a clearing system, TARGET, for large euro transactions.\n\nThe final stage of completely free movement of capital was thought to require a single currency and monetary policy, eliminating the transaction costs and fluctuations of currency exchange. Following a Report of the Delors Commission in 1988, the Treaty of Maastricht made economic and monetary union an objective, first by completing the internal market, second by creating a European System of Central Banks to co-ordinate common monetary policy, and third by locking exchange rates and introducing a single currency, the euro. Today, 19 member states have adopted the euro, while 9 member states have either determined to opt-out or their accession has been delayed, particularly since the Eurozone crisis. According to TFEU articles 119 and 127, the objective of the European Central Bank and other central banks ought to be price stability. This has been criticised for apparently being superior to the objective of full employment in the Treaty on European Union article 3.\n\nAs well as creating rights for \"workers\" who generally lack bargaining power in the market, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union also protects the \"freedom of establishment\" in article 49, and \"freedom to provide services\" in article 56.\n\nIn \"Gebhard v Consiglio dell’Ordine degli Avvocati e Procuratori di Milano\" the Court of Justice held that to be \"established\" means to participate in economic life \"on a stable and continuous basis\", while providing \"services\" meant pursuing activity more \"on a temporary basis\". This meant that a lawyer from Stuttgart, who had set up chambers in Milan and was censured by the Milan Bar Council for not having registered, should claim for breach of establishment freedom, rather than service freedom. However, the requirements to be registered in Milan before being able to practice would be allowed if they were non-discriminatory, \"justified by imperative requirements in the general interest\" and proportionately applied. All people or entities that engage in economic activity, particularly the self-employed, or \"undertakings\" such as companies or firms, have a right to set up an enterprise without unjustified restrictions. The Court of Justice has held that both a member state government and a private party can hinder freedom of establishment, so article 49 has both \"vertical\" and \"horizontal\" direct effect. In \"Reyners v Belgium\" the Court of Justice held that a refusal to admit a lawyer to the Belgian bar because he lacked Belgian nationality was unjustified. TFEU article 49 says states are exempt from infringing others' freedom of establishment when they exercise \"official authority\", but this did an advocate's work (as opposed to a court's) was not official. By contrast in \"Commission v Italy\" the Court of Justice held that a requirement for lawyers in Italy to comply with maximum tariffs unless there was an agreement with a client was not a restriction. The Grand Chamber of the Court of Justice held the Commission had not proven that this had any object or effect of limiting practitioners from entering the market. Therefore, there was no \"prima facie\" infringement freedom of establishment that needed to be justified.\nIn regard to companies, the Court of Justice held in \"R (Daily Mail and General Trust plc) v HM Treasury\" that member states could restrict a company moving its seat of business, without infringing TFEU article 49. This meant the \"Daily Mail\" newspaper's parent company could not evade tax by shifting its residence to the Netherlands without first settling its tax bills in the UK. The UK did not need to justify its action, as rules on company seats were not yet harmonised. By contrast, in \"Centros Ltd v Erhversus-og Selkabssyrelsen\" the Court of Justice found that a UK limited company operating in Denmark could not be required to comply with Denmark's minimum share capital rules. UK law only required £1 of capital to start a company, while Denmark's legislature took the view companies should only be started up if they had 200,000 Danish krone (around €27,000) to protect creditors if the company failed and went insolvent. The Court of Justice held that Denmark's minimum capital law infringed Centros Ltd's freedom of establishment and could not be justified, because a company in the UK could admittedly provide services in Denmark without being established there, and there were less restrictive means of achieving the aim of creditor protection. This approach was criticised as potentially opening the EU to unjustified regulatory competition, and a race to the bottom in standards, like in the US where the state of Delaware attracts most companies and is often argued to have the worst standards of accountability of boards, and low corporate taxes as a result. Similarly in \"Überseering BV v Nordic Construction GmbH\" the Court of Justice held that a German court could not deny a Dutch building company the right to enforce a contract in Germany on the basis that it was not validly incorporated in Germany. Although restrictions on freedom of establishment could be justified by creditor protection, labour rights to participate in work, or the public interest in collecting taxes, denial of capacity went too far: it was an \"outright negation\" of the right of establishment. However, in \"Cartesio Oktató és Szolgáltató bt\" the Court of Justice affirmed again that because corporations are created by law, they are in principle subject to any rules for formation that a state of incorporation wishes to impose. This meant that the Hungarian authorities could prevent a company from shifting its central administration to Italy while it still operated and was incorporated in Hungary. Thus, the court draws a distinction between the right of establishment for foreign companies (where restrictions must be justified), and the right of the state to determine conditions for companies incorporated in its territory, although it is not entirely clear why.\n\nThe \"freedom to provide services\" under TFEU article 56 applies to people who provide services \"for remuneration\", especially commercial or professional activity. For example, in \"Van Binsbergen v Bestuur van de Bedrijfvereniging voor de Metaalnijverheid\" a Dutch lawyer moved to Belgium while advising a client in a social security case, and was told he could not continue because Dutch law said only people established in the Netherlands could give legal advice. The Court of Justice held that the freedom to provide services applied, it was directly effective, and the rule was probably unjustified: having an address in the member state would be enough to pursue the legitimate aim of good administration of justice. The Court of Justice has held that secondary education falls outside the scope of article 56, because usually the state funds it, though higher education does not. Health care generally counts as a service. In \"Geraets-Smits v Stichting Ziekenfonds\" Mrs Geraets-Smits claimed she should be reimbursed by Dutch social insurance for costs of receiving treatment in (Germany). The Dutch health authorities regarded the treatment unnecessary, so she argued this restricted the freedom (of the German health clinic) to provide services. Several governments submitted that hospital services should not be regarded as economic, and should not fall within article 56. But the Court of Justice held health was a \"service\" even though the government (rather than the service recipient) paid for the service. National authorities could be justified in refusing to reimburse patients for medical services abroad if the health care received at home was without undue delay, and it followed \"international medical science\" on which treatments counted as normal and necessary. The Court requires that the individual circumstances of a patient justify waiting lists, and this is also true in the context of the UK's National Health Service. Aside from public services, another sensitive field of services are those classified as illegal. \"Josemans v Burgemeester van Maastricht\" held that the Netherlands' regulation of cannabis consumption, including the prohibitions by some municipalities on tourists (but not Dutch nationals) going to coffee shops, fell outside article 56 altogether. The Court of Justice reasoned that narcotic drugs were controlled in all member states, and so this differed from other cases where prostitution or other quasi-legal activity was subject to restriction.\n\nIf an activity does fall within article 56, a restriction can be justified under article 52 or over-riding requirements developed by the Court of Justice. In \"Alpine Investments BV v Minister van Financiën\" a business that sold commodities futures (with Merrill Lynch and another banking firms) attempted to challenge a Dutch law that prohibiting cold calling customers. The Court of Justice held the Dutch prohibition pursued a legitimate aim to prevent \"undesirable developments in securities trading\" including protecting the consumer from aggressive sales tactics, thus maintaining confidence in the Dutch markets. In \"Omega Spielhallen GmbH v Bonn\" a \"laserdrome\" business was banned by the Bonn council. It bought fake laser gun services from a UK firm called Pulsar Ltd, but residents had protested against \"playing at killing\" entertainment. The Court of Justice held that the German constitutional value of human dignity, which underpinned the ban, did count as a justified restriction on freedom to provide services. In \"Liga Portuguesa de Futebol v Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa\" the Court of Justice also held that the state monopoly on gambling, and a penalty for a Gibraltar firm that had sold internet gambling services, was justified to prevent fraud and gambling where people's views were highly divergent. The ban was proportionate as this was an appropriate and necessary way to tackle the serious problems of fraud that arise over the internet. In the Services Directive a group of justifications were codified in article 16 that the case law has developed.\n\nIn May 2015 the Juncker Commission announced a plan to reverse the fragmentation of internet shopping and other online services by establishing a Single Digital Market that would cover digital services and goods from e-commerce to parcel delivery rates, uniform telecoms and copyright rules.\n\nThe free movement of persons means EU citizens can move freely between member states for whatever reason (or without any reason) and to reside in any member state they choose if they aren't an undue burden on social welfare system or public safety in their chosen member state. This required the lowering of administrative formalities and more recognition of professional qualifications of other states. Fostering the free movement of persons has been a major goal of European integration since the 1950s.\n\nBroadly defined, this freedom enables citizens of one Member State to travel to another, to reside and to work there (permanently or temporarily). The idea behind EU legislation in this field is that citizens from other member states should be treated equally to domestic citizens – they should not be discriminated against.\n\nThe main provision of the freedom of movement of persons is Article 45 of the TFEU, which prohibits restrictions on the basis of nationality.\n\nSince its foundation, the Treaties sought to enable people to pursue their life goals in any country through free movement. Reflecting the economic nature of the project, the European Community originally focused upon free movement of workers: as a \"factor of production\". However, from the 1970s, this focus shifted towards developing a more \"social\" Europe.<ref name=\"Case 43/75\">\"Defrenne v Sabena (No 2)\" (1976) Case 43/75, [10]</ref> Free movement was increasingly based on \"citizenship\", so that people had rights to empower them to become economically and socially active, rather than economic activity being a precondition for rights. This means the basic \"worker\" rights in TFEU article 45 function as a specific expression of the general rights of citizens in TFEU articles 18 to 21. According to the Court of Justice, a \"worker\" is anybody who is economically active, which includes everyone in an employment relationship, \"under the direction of another person\" for \"remuneration\". A job, however, need not be paid in money for someone to be protected as a worker. For example, in \"Steymann v Staatssecretaris van Justitie\", a German man claimed the right to residence in the Netherlands, while he volunteered plumbing and household duties in the Bhagwan community, which provided for everyone's material needs irrespective of their contributions. The Court of Justice held that Mr Steymann was entitled to stay, so long as there was at least an \"indirect quid pro quo\" for the work he did. Having \"worker\" status means protection against all forms of discrimination by governments, and employers, in access to employment, tax, and social security rights. By contrast a citizen, who is \"any person having the nationality of a Member State\" (TFEU article 20(1)), has rights to seek work, vote in local and European elections, but more restricted rights to claim social security. In practice, free movement has become politically contentious as nationalist political parties appear to have utilised concerns about immigrants taking jobs and benefits.\nThe Free Movement of Workers Regulation articles 1 to 7 set out the main provisions on equal treatment of workers. First, articles 1 to 4 generally require that workers can take up employment, conclude contracts, and not suffer discrimination compared to nationals of the member state. In a famous case, the \"Belgian Football Association v Bosman\", a Belgian footballer named Jean-Marc Bosman claimed that he should be able to transfer from R.F.C. de Liège to USL Dunkerque when his contract finished, regardless of whether Dunkerque could afford to pay Liège the habitual transfer fees. The Court of Justice held \"the transfer rules constitute[d] an obstacle to free movement\" and were unlawful unless they could be justified in the public interest, but this was unlikely. In \"Groener v Minister for Education\" the Court of Justice accepted that a requirement to speak Gaelic to teach in a Dublin design college could be justified as part of the public policy of promoting the Irish language, but only if the measure was not disproportionate. By contrast in \"Angonese v Cassa di Risparmio di Bolzano SpA\" a bank in Bolzano, Italy, was not allowed to require Mr Angonese to have a bilingual certificate that could only be obtained in Bolzano. The Court of Justice, giving \"horizontal\" direct effect to TFEU article 45, reasoned that people from other countries would have little chance of acquiring the certificate, and because it was \"impossible to submit proof of the required linguistic knowledge by any other means\", the measure was disproportionate. Second, article 7(2) requires equal treatment in respect of tax. In \"Finanzamt Köln Altstadt v Schumacker\" the Court of Justice held that it contravened TFEU art 45 to deny tax benefits (e.g. for married couples, and social insurance expense deductions) to a man who worked in Germany, but was resident in Belgium when other German residents got the benefits. By contrast in \"Weigel v Finanzlandesdirektion für Vorarlberg\" the Court of Justice rejected Mr Weigel's claim that a re-registration charge upon bringing his car to Austria violated his right to free movement. Although the tax was \"likely to have a negative bearing on the decision of migrant workers to exercise their right to freedom of movement\", because the charge applied equally to Austrians, in absence of EU legislation on the matter it had to be regarded as justified. Third, people must receive equal treatment regarding \"social advantages\", although the Court has approved residential qualifying periods. In \"Hendrix v Employee Insurance Institute\" the Court of Justice held that a Dutch national was not entitled to continue receiving incapacity benefits when he moved to Belgium, because the benefit was \"closely linked to the socio-economic situation\" of the Netherlands. Conversely, in \"Geven v Land Nordrhein-Westfalen\" the Court of Justice held that a Dutch woman living in the Netherlands, but working between 3 and 14 hours a week in Germany, did not have a right to receive German child benefits, even though the wife of a man who worked full-time in Germany but was resident in Austria could. The general justifications for limiting free movement in TFEU article 45(3) are \"public policy, public security or public health\", and there is also a general exception in article 45(4) for \"employment in the public service\".\n\nBeyond the right of free movement to work, the EU has increasingly sought to guarantee rights of citizens, and rights simply by being a human being. But although the Court of Justice stated that ‘Citizenship is destined to be the fundamental status of nationals of the Member States’, political debate remains on who should have access to public services and welfare systems funded by taxation. In 2008, just 8 million people from 500 million EU citizens (1.7 per cent) had in fact exercised rights of free movement, the vast majority of them workers. According to TFEU article 20, citizenship of the EU derives from nationality of a member state. Article 21 confers general rights to free movement in the EU and to reside freely within limits set by legislation. This applies for citizens and their immediate family members. This triggers four main groups of rights: (1) to enter, depart and return, without undue restrictions, (2) to reside, without becoming an unreasonable burden on social assistance, (3) to vote in local and European elections, and (4) the right to equal treatment with nationals of the host state, but for social assistance only after 3 months of residence.\nFirst, article 4 of the Citizens Rights Directive 2004 says every citizen has the right to depart a member state with a valid passport. This has historical importance for central and eastern Europe, when the Soviet Union and the Berlin Wall denied its citizens the freedom to leave. Article 5 gives every citizen a right of entry, subject to national border controls. Schengen Area countries (not the UK and Ireland) abolished the need to show documents, and police searches at borders, altogether. These reflect the general principle of free movement in TFEU article 21. Second, article 6 allows every citizen to stay three months in another member state, whether economically active or not. Article 7 allows stays over three months with evidence of \"sufficient resources... not to become a burden on the social assistance system\". Articles 16 and 17 give a right to permanent residence after 5 years without conditions. Third, TEU article 10(3) requires the right to vote in the local constituencies for the European Parliament wherever a citizen lives.\nFourth, and more debated, article 24 requires that the longer an EU citizen stays in a host state, the more rights they have to access public and welfare services, on the basis of equal treatment. This reflects general principles of equal treatment and citizenship in TFEU articles 18 and 20. In a simple case, in \"Sala v Freistaat Bayern\" the Court of Justice held that a Spanish woman who had lived in (Germany) for 25 years and had a baby was entitled to child support, without the need for a residence permit, because Germans did not need one. In \"Trojani v Centre public d’aide sociale de Bruxelles\", a French man who lived in Belgium for two years was entitled to the \"minimex\" allowance from the state for a minimum living wage. In \"Grzelczyk v Centre Public d’Aide Sociale d’Ottignes-Louvain-la-Neuve\" a French student, who had lived in Belgium for three years, was entitled to receive the \"minimex\" income support for his fourth year of study. Similarly, in \"R (Bidar) v London Borough of Ealing\" the Court of Justice held that it was lawful to require a French UCL economics student to have lived in the UK for three years before receiving a student loan, but not that he had to have additional \"settled status\". Similarly, in \"Commission v Austria\", Austria was not entitled to restrict its university places to Austrian students to avoid \"structural, staffing and financial problems\" if (mainly German) foreign students applied, unless it proved there was an actual problem. However, in \"Dano v Jobcenter Leipzig\", the Court of Justice held that the German government was entitled to deny child support to a Romanian mother who had lived in Germany for 3 years, but had never worked. Because she lived in Germany for over 3 months, but under 5 years, she had to show evidence of \"sufficient resources\", since the Court reasoned the right to equal treatment in article 24 within that time depended on lawful residence under article 7.\n\nWithin the Schengen Area 22 of 28 EU member states (excluding Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Ireland, Romania and the United Kingdom) and the four EFTA members (Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland) have abolished physical barriers across the single market by eliminating border controls. In 2015, limited controls were temporarily re-imposed at some internal borders in response to the migrant crisis. In November 2017, the German Ministry of Interior decided to subject flights from Greece to advanced checks, retracting from the Schengen Area processing by invoking Article 25 of the Schengen Agreement.\n\nPublic procurement legislation and guidance, based on the four freedoms, require equal treatment, non-discrimination, mutual recognition, proportionality and transparency to be maintained when purchasing goods and services for EU public sector bodies.\n\nOnly EU's 28 member states are fully within the European Single Market, while several other countries have been granted various degrees of access to it. The Single Market has been extended, with exceptions, to Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway through the agreement on the European Economic Area (EEA) and to Switzerland through bilateral treaties. The exceptions, where these EEA states do not participate in the EU Single Market, are:\n\nSwitzerland, a member of EFTA but not of the EEA, participates in the Single Market with a number of exceptions, as defined by the Switzerland–European Union relations.\n\nStabilisation and Association Agreement states have a \"comprehensive framework in place to move closer to the EU and to prepare for [their] future participation in the Single Market\".\n\nTurkey has participated in the European Union–Turkey Customs Union since 1995, which enables it to participate in the free movement of goods (but not of agriculture or services, nor people) with the EU.\n\nThrough the agreement of the Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area (DCFTA), three post-Soviet countries Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine were given access to the \"four freedoms\" of the EU Single Market: free movement of goods, services, capital, and people. Movement of people however, is in form of visa free regime for short stay travel, while movement of workers remains within the remit of the EU Member States. The DCFTA is an \"example of the integration of a Non-EEA-Member into the EU Single Market\".\n\nSince 2015, the European Commission has been aiming to build a single market for energy. and for the defence industry.\n\nOn 2 May 2017 the European Commission announced a package of measures intended to enhance the functioning of the Single Market within the EU:\n\nBritain's future relationship with the single market is unknown, following the UK's decision to withdraw from the EU. In July 2018, the Prime Minister Theresa May announced her intention that the UK will continue to participate in the single market [and thus the Four Freedoms] and customs union after \"Brexit Day\", until the end of the \"transition period\". (, this transition period is scheduled to last until 31 December 2020.)\n\nThe \"New Hanseatic League\" is a political grouping of economically like-minded northern European states, established in February 2018, that is pushing for a more developed European Single Market, particularly in the services sector.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33452757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33452757", "title": "Fifth (unit)", "text": "Fifth (unit)\n\nA fifth is a unit of volume formerly used for wine and distilled beverages in the United States, equal to one fifth of a US liquid gallon,  quart, or ; it has been superseded by the metric bottle size of 750 ml, sometimes called a metric fifth, which is the standard capacity of wine bottles worldwide and is approximately 1% smaller.\n\nIn the late 19th century, liquor in the US was often sold in bottles which appeared to hold but in fact contained less than a quart and were called \"fifths\", or commercial quarts.\n\nOne fifth of a gallon was a common legal threshold for the difference between selling by the drink and selling by the bottle or at wholesale,\nand thus the difference between a drinking saloon or barroom and a dry-goods store.\n\nThe fifth was the usual size of bottle for distilled beverages in the United States until 1980.\nOther authorized units based on the fifth included  pint and  pint.\n\nDuring the 1970s, there was a push for metrication of U.S. government standards. In 1975, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, in cooperation with the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, proposed metric-standard bottle sizes to take effect in January 1979 and these standards were incorporated into Title 27 of the Code of Federal Regulations.\nThese sizes are 50, 100, 200, 375 (355 for cans), 500 (until June 1989),\n750, 1000, and 1750 ml.\n\n"}
{"id": "384142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=384142", "title": "Foreign worker", "text": "Foreign worker\n\nA foreign worker or guest worker is a human who works in a country other than the one of which he or she is a citizen. Some foreign workers are using a guest worker program in a country with more preferred job prospects than their home country. Guest workers are often either sent or invited to work outside their home country, or have acquired a job before they left their home country, whereas migrant workers often leave their home country without having a specific job at hand.\n\nTens of millions of people around the world live their lives as foreign workers. An estimated 14 million foreign workers live in the United States, which draws most of its immigrants from Mexico, including 4 or 5 million undocumented workers. It is estimated that around 5 million foreign workers live in Northwestern Europe, half a million in Japan, and around 5 million in Saudi Arabia. A comparable number of dependents are accompanying international workers.\n\nForeign nationals are accepted into Canada on a temporary basis if they have a student visa, are seeking asylum, or under special permits. The largest category however is called the Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP), under which workers are brought to Canada by their employers for specific jobs. In 2006, there were a total of 265,000 foreign workers in Canada. Amongst those of working age, there was a 118% increase from 1996. By 2008, the intake of non-permanent immigrants (399,523, the majority of whom are TFWs), had overtaken the intake of permanent immigrants (247,243).In order to hire foreign workers, Canadian employers must acquire a Labour Market Impact Assessment administered by Employment and Social Development Canada. . \n\nGreen card workers are individuals who have requested and received legal permanent residence in the United States from the government and who intend to work in the United States on a permanent basis. The United States’ Diversity Immigrant Visa (DV) Lottery program authorizes up to 50,000 immigrant visas to be granted each year. This help facilitate foreign nationals with low rates of immigration to the United States a chance to participate in a random drawing for the possibility of obtaining an immigration visa. \n\nIn Nazi Germany, from 1940–42, Organization Todt began its reliance on guest workers, military internees, Zivilarbeiter (civilian workers), Ostarbeiter (Eastern workers) and Hilfswillige (\"volunteer\") POW workers.\nThe great migration phase of labor migrants in the 20th century began in Germany during the 1950s, as the sovereign Germany since 1955 due to repeated pressure from NATO partners yielded to the request for closure of the so-called 'Anwerbe' Agreement (German: Anwerbeabkommen).\nThe initial plan was a rotation principle: a temporary stay (usually two to three years), followed by a return to their homeland. The rotation principle proved inefficient for the industry, because the experienced workers were constantly replaced by inexperienced ones. The companies asked for legislation to extend the residence permits.\nMany of these foreign workers were followed by their families in the following period and stayed forever. Until the 1970s, more than four million migrant workers and their families came to Germany like this, mainly from the Mediterranean countries of Italy, Spain, the former Yugoslavia, Greece and Turkey.\nSince about 1990, came for the disintegration of the Soviet bloc and the enlargement of the European Union and guest workers from Eastern Europe to Western Europe\nSometimes, a host country sets up a program in order to invite guest workers, as did the Federal Republic of Germany from 1955 until 1973, when over one million guest workers (German: Gastarbeiter) arrived, mostly from Italy, Spain and Turkey.\n\nThe underestimation of the required integration services by the state and the society of the host countries, but also by the migrants themselves. Switzerland's transformation into a country of immigration was not until after the accelerated industrialization in the second half of the 19th century. Switzerland was no longer a purely rural Alpine area but became a European vanguard in various industries at that time, first of textile, later also the mechanical and chemical industries. Since the middle of the 19th century especially German academics, self-employed and craftsmen, but also Italians, who found a job in science, industry, construction and infrastructure construction migrated to Switzerland.\n\nIn Asia, some countries in East and Southeast Asia offer workers. Their destinations include Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Brunei and Malaysia. \n\nIn 1973, an oil boom in the Persian Gulf region (UAE, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, and Bahrain, which comprise the Gulf Cooperation Council), created an unprecedented demand for labor in the oil, construction and industrial sectors. Development demanded a labor force. This demand was met by foreign workers, primarily those from the Arab states, with a later shift to those from Asian countries. A rise in the standards of living for citizens of Middle Eastern countries also created a demand for domestic workers in the home.\n\nSince the 1970s, foreign workers have become a large percentage of the population in most nations in the Persian Gulf region. Growing competition with nationals in the job sector, along with complaints regarding treatment of foreign workers, have led to rising tensions between the national and foreign populations in these nations.\n\nRemittances are becoming a prominent source of external funding for countries that contribute foreign workers to the countries of the GCC. On average, the top recipients globally are India, the Philippines, and Bangladesh. In 2001, $72.3 billion was returned as remittances to the countries of origin of foreign workers, equivalent to 1.3% of the world GDP. The source of income remains beneficial as remittances are often more stable that private capital flows. Despite fluctuations in the economy of GCC countries, the amount of dollars in remittances is usually stable.\n\nThe spending of remittances is seen in two ways. Principally, remittances are sent to the families of guest workers. Though often put towards consumption, remittances are also directed to investment. Investment is seen to lead to the strengthening of infrastructure and facilitating international travel.\n\nWith this jump in earnings, one benefit that has been seen is the nutritional improvement in households of migrant workers. Other benefits are the lessening of underemployment and unemployment.\n\nIn detailed studies of Pakistani migrants to the Middle East in the early 1980s, the average foreign worker was of age 25–40 years. 70 percent were married, while only 4 percent were accompanied by families. Two thirds hailed from rural areas, and 83 percent were production workers. At the time, 40 percent of Pakistan's foreign exchange earnings came from its migrant workers.\n\nDomestic work is the single most important category of employment among women migrants to the Arab States of the Persian Gulf, as well as to Lebanon and Jordan. The increase of Arab women in the labour force, and changing conceptions of women's responsibilities, have resulted in a shift in household responsibilities to hired domestic workers. Domestic workers perform an array of work in the home: cleaning, cooking, child care, and elder care. Common traits of the work include an average 100-hour work week and virtually non-existent overtime pay. Remuneration differs greatly according to nationality, oftentimes depending on language skills and education level. This is seen with Filipina domestic workers receiving a higher remuneration than Sri Lankan and Ethiopian nationals.\n\nSaudi Arabia is the largest source of remittance payments in the world. Remittance payments from Saudi Arabia, similar to other GCC countries, rose during the oil boom years of the 1970s and early 1980s, but declined in the mid-1980s. As oil prices fell, budget deficits mounted, and most governments of GCC countries put limits on hiring foreign workers. Weaknesses in the financial sector and in government administration impose substantial transaction costs on migrant workers who send them. Costs, although difficult to estimate, consist of salaries and the increased spending required to expand educational and health services, housing, roads, communications, and other infrastructure to accommodate the basic needs of the newcomers. The foreign labor force is a substantial drain of the GCC states' hard currency earnings, with remittances to migrants' home countries in the early 2000s amounting to $27 billion per year, including $16 billion from Saudi Arabia alone. It has been shown that the percentage of the GDP that foreign labor generates is roughly equal to what the state has to spend on them.\n\nThe main concerns of developed countries regarding immigration centers are: (1) the local job seekers' fear of competition from migrant workers, (2) the fiscal burden that may result on native taxpayers for providing health and social services to migrants, (3) fears of erosion of cultural identity and problems of assimilation of immigrants, and (4) national security.\n\nIn immigrant-producing countries, individuals with less than a high school education continue to be a fiscal burden into the next generation. Skilled workers, however, pay more in taxes than what they receive in social spending from the state. Emigration of highly skilled workers has been linked to skill shortages, reductions in output, and tax shortfalls in many developing countries. These burdens are even more apparent in countries where educated workers emigrated in large numbers after receiving a highly subsidized technical education. \"Brain Drain refers to the emigration (out-migration) of knowledgeable, well-educated and skilled professionals from their home country to another country, [usually because of] better job opportunities in the new country.\"\n\nAs of 2007, 10 million workers from Southeast Asia, South Asia, or Africa live and work in the countries of the Persian Gulf region. Xenophobia in receiving nations is often rampant, as menial work is often allocated only to foreign workers. Expatriate labor is treated with prejudice in host countries despite government attempts to eradicate malpractice and exploitation of workers. Emigrants are offered substandard wages and living conditions and are compelled to work overtime without extra payment. With regards to injuries and death, workers or their dependents are not paid due compensation. Citizenship is rarely offered and labor can oftentimes be acquired below the legal minimum wage. Foreign workers often lack access to local labor markets. Oftentimes these workers are legally attached to a sponsor/employer until completion of their employment contract, after which a worker must either renew a permit or leave the country.\n\nRacism is prevalent towards migrant workers. With an increasing number of unskilled workers from Asia and Africa, the market for foreign workers became increasingly racialized, and dangerous or \"dirty\" jobs became associated with Asian and African workers noted by the term \"Abed\", meaning dark skin.\n\nForeign workers migrate to the Middle East as contract workers by means of the \"kafala\", or \"sponsorship\" system. Migrant work is typically for a period of two years. Recruitment agencies in sending countries are the main contributors of labor to GCC countries. Through these agencies, sponsors must pay a fee to the recruiter and pay for the worker's round-trip airfare, visas, permits, and wages. Recruiters charge high fees to prospective employees to obtain employment visas, averaging between $2,000 and $2,500 in such countries as Bangladesh and India. Contract disputes are also common. In Saudi Arabia, foreign workers must have employment contracts written in Arabic and have them signed by both the sponsor and themselves in order to be issued a work permit. With other GCC countries, such as Kuwait, contracts may be written or oral.\n\nDependence on the sponsor (\"kafeel\") naturally creates room for violations of the rights of foreign workers. Debt causes workers to work for a certain period of time without a salary to cover these fees. This bondage encourages the practice of international labour migration as women in situations of poverty are able to find jobs overseas and pay off their debts through work. It is common for the employer or the sponsor to retain the employee's passport and other identity papers as a form of insurance for the amount an employer has paid for the worker's work permit and airfare. Kafeels sell visas to the foreign worker with the unwritten understanding that the foreigner can work for an employer other than the sponsor.\n\nWhen a two-year work period is over, or with a job loss, workers must find another employer willing to sponsor them, or return to their nation of origin within a short time. Failing to do this entails imprisonment for violation of immigration laws. Protections are nearly non-existent for migrant workers.\n\nThe population in the current GCC states has grown more than eight times during 50 years. Foreign workers have become the primary, dominant labor force in most sectors of the economy and the government bureaucracy. With rising unemployment, GCC governments embarked on the formulation of labor market strategies to improve this situation, to create sufficient employment opportunities for nationals, and to limit the dependence on expatriate labor. Restrictions have been imposed: the sponsorship system, the rotational system of expatriate labor to limit the duration of foreigners' stay, curbs on naturalization and the rights of those who have been naturalized, etc. This has also led to efforts to improve the education and training of nationals. Localization remains low among the private sector, however. This is due to the traditionally low income the sector offers. Also included are long working hours, a competitive work environment, and a need to recognize an expatriate supervisor, often difficult to accept.\n\nIn 2005, low-paid Asian workers staged protests, some of them violent, in Kuwait, Bahrain, and Qatar for not receiving salaries on time. In March 2006, hundreds of mostly south Asian construction workers stopped work and went on a rampage in Dubai, UAE, to protest their harsh working conditions, low or delayed pay, and general lack of rights. Sexual harassment of Filipina housemaids by local employers, especially in Saudi Arabia, has become a serious matter. In recent years, this has resulted in a ban on migration of females under 21. Such nations as Indonesia have noted the maltreatment of women in the GCC states, with the government calling for an end to the sending of housemaids altogether. In GCC countries, a chief concern with foreign domestic workers is childcare without the desired emphasis on Islamic and Arabic values.\n\nPossible developments in the future include a slowdown in the growth of foreign labor. One contributor to this is a dramatic change in demographic trends. The growing birth rate of nationals in the GCC states will lead to a more competitive workforce in the future. This could also lead to a rise in the numbers of national women in the workforce.\n\nIn 2016, around 7.14% (15.885.300 people) of total EU employment were not citizens, 3.61% (8.143.800) were from another EU Member State, 3.53% (7.741.500) were from a non-EU country. Switzerland 0.53%, France 0.65%, Spain 0.88%, Italy 1.08%, United Kingdom 1.46%, Germany 1.81% (until 1990 former territory of the FRG) were countries where more than 0.5% of employees were not citizens. \nUnited Kingdom 0.91%, Germany 0.94% (until 1990 former territory of the FRG) are countries where more than 0.9% of employees were from non-EU countries. \ncountries with more than 0.5% employees were from another EU country were Spain 0.54%, United Kingdom 0.55%, Italy 0.72%, Germany (until 1990 former territory of the FRG) 0.87%.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2578344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2578344", "title": "Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict", "text": "Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict\n\nThe Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict is the first international treaty that focuses exclusively on the protection of cultural property in armed conflict. It was signed at The Hague, Netherlands on 14 May 1954 and entered into force on 7 August 1956. As of September 2018, it has been ratified by 133 states.\n\nThe provisions of the 1954 Convention were supplemented and clarified by two protocols concluded in 1954 and 1999. All three agreements are part of International Humanitarian Law, which, in the form of further agreements, primarily includes provisions defining the permissible means and methods of warfare and aiming at the widest possible protection of persons not involved in the fighting. In contrast to these parts of International Humanitarian Law, the agreements on the protection of cultural property were drawn up under the auspices of the United Nations (UN); the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) is primarily responsible for the dissemination and monitoring of compliance. In addition to rules designed to ensure the protection and respect of cultural property during an armed conflict, these agreements also provide for security measures to be implemented in times of peace. As of June 2018, 132 states are party to the Hague Convention of 1954, 109 and 77 states respectively have acceded to the Protocols of 1954 and 1999. Blue Shield International, based in The Hague, is active in the field of international coordination with regard to military and civil structures for the protection of cultural assets.\n\nThe guiding principles of the Convention and the motivation for its conclusion, dissemination and respect are summarised in the preamble, which states, among other things,\n\n\"... that any damage to cultural property, irrespective of the people it belongs to, is a damage to the cultural heritage of all humanity, because every people contributes to the world's culture...\"\n\nAs of September 2018, 133 states are party to the treaty. Currently, there are 109 States Parties to the First Protocol. The Second Protocol has 77 States Parties.\n\nFor the purposes of the present Convention, the term 'cultural property' shall cover, irrespective of origin or ownership:\n\n(a) movable or immovable property of great importance to the cultural heritage of every people, such as monuments of architecture, art or history, whether religious or secular; archaeological sites; groups of buildings which, as a whole, are of historical or artistic interest; works of art; manuscripts, books and other objects of artistic, historical or archaeological interest; as well as scientific collections and important collections of books or archives or of reproductions of the property defined above;\n\n(b) buildings whose main and effective purpose is to preserve or exhibit the movable cultural property defined in sub-paragraph (a) such as museums, large libraries and depositories of archives, and refuges intended to shelter, in the event of armed conflict, the movable cultural property defined in sub-paragraph (a);\n\n(c) centers containing a large amount of cultural property as defined in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), to be known as 'centers containing monuments'.\n\nCultural property is the manifestation and expression of the cultural heritage of a group of people or a society. It is an expression of the ways of living developed by a community and passed on from generation to generation, including the customs of a people, their practices, places, objects, artistic endeavours and values. The protection of cultural property during times of armed conflict or occupation is of great importance, because such property reflects the life, history and identity of communities; its preservation helps to rebuild communities, re-establish identities, and link people's past with their present and future.\n\nThe Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 preceded the Hague Convention of 1954. The multilateral agreement of 1899 and the slightly amended later version of 1907 contained in Article 27 the commandment for the attacking party to spare historical monuments, educational institutions and institutions of religious, not-for-profit, artistic or scientific significance as far as possible during sieges and bombardments. The party under attacked is called upon to ark appropriate buildings. Article 56 also contained a general ban on the confiscation, destruction or damage of such facilities. However, during the First World War, acceptance of these first Hague Conventions was severely restricted by the so-called all-participation clause. It stated that, in the event of war or armed conflict, this Agreement should apply only if all States involved in that conflict are parties to the Convention.\n\nThe Russian lawyer, painter and writer Nicholas Roerich, who witnessed the destruction of cultural assets in Russia during the First World War and the October Revolution, initiated the development of an independent treaty at the beginning of the 1930s to protect cultural assets during armed conflicts. Ten years later, just before the beginning of the First World War, he had also addressed his idea to the Russian Tsar Nicholas II. On his initiative, Georges Chklaver of the Institute for Higher International Studies at the University of Paris drew up a corresponding draft in 1929. This proposal was subsequently discussed by the International Museum Office of the League of Nations and at private conferences in Bruges in 1931 and 1932 and in Washington, D.C. in 1933. The seventh international conference of American states, which took place in Buenos Aires in 1933, recommended the adoption of the draft. The Board of the Pan-American Union subsequently presented a treaty \"on the protection of artistic and scientific institutions and historical monuments\", which was signed on 15 April 1935 in the White House by 21 states in North, Central and South America. Ten of the signatory states also became parties by ratification, the first of which was the United States on 13 July 1935 and the last of which was Colombia on 20 February 1937. The agreement, also known as the Roerich Pact after its initiator, entered into force on 26 August 1935.\n\nThe Roerich Pact contained eight articles and several significant innovations compared with the general provisions of Articles 27 and 56 of the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907. On the one hand, the treaty established the status of neutrality for historical monuments, museums, scientific and artistic institutions as well as educational and cultural institutions. This legal position, comparable to the neutrality of medical personnel and comparable institutions during a war, resulted in respect for these goods by all parties involved in a conflict and thus their protection. The Parties should send lists of monuments and sites for which they claimed protection under the Treaty to the Pan-American Union, which should forward them to all States Parties.\n\nIn addition, the Treaty defined a protection mark for the marking of cultural objects, consisting of three red dots in a red circle on a white background. Nicholas Roerich, who designed it with early symbolism in mind, described the significance of the three points as a symbol of art, science and religion as the three most important cultural activities of humanity, with the circle as the element that linked these three aspects in the past, present and future. The symbol was also called the \"Banner of Peace\", the movement based on the Roerich Pact under the name Pax Cultura in analogy to the Geneva Conventions as the \"Red Cross of Culture\".\n\nHowever, the acceptance of the Roerich Pact was limited to the United States and the countries of Central and South America. Not a single country in Europe and Asia, the geopolitical focus of the Second World War that began a few years later, signed or ratified the treaty. Even though it remains valid in relations between the parties and the Organization of American States (OAS) and continues to act as a depositary in succession to the Pan-American Union, the Roerich Pact remained without significant practical relevance. As the USA is not party to the 1999 Second Protocol of the Hague Convention, the Roerich Pact is therefore still of importance as a contractual obligation in the area of cultural property protection. Nevertheless, with the establishment of a protective label and the administration of lists of cultural assets worthy of protection by a central international institution, this treaty introduced two important far-reaching principles in the area of the protection of cultural assets in armed conflicts that remain important today.\n\nOnly four years after the Roerich Pact was signed, the government of the Netherlands presented a draft for a new convention, in the drafting of which the International Museum Office of the League of Nations was also significantly involved. However, the start of the Second World War in the same year prevented all further steps to develop and implement this proposal. After the end of the war, in 1948 the Netherlands again submitted a proposal to UNESCO, which had been founded three years earlier. In 1951, the General Conference of UNESCO decided to set up a committee of governmental experts to draft a new convention. A year later, this committee submitted a draft to the General Conference, which forwarded it to the national governments for further discussion. From 21 April to 14 May 1954, an international conference was held in The Hague with the participation of 56 states, which drew up a final version and adopted it as the \"Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict\". The agreement entered into force on 7 August 1956. After the 1948 Genocide Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, this was the second important agreement in the field of international humanitarian law to which the United Nations played a major role in its creation and implementation.\n\nThe Hague Convention outlines various prohibitions and obligations which States Parties are expected to observe, both in peacetime and in times of conflict.\n\nBroadly, the Hague Convention requires that States Parties adopt protection measures during peacetime for the safeguarding of cultural property. Such measures include the preparation of inventories, preparation for the removal of movable cultural property and the designation of competent authorities responsible for the safeguarding of cultural property.\n\nStates Parties undertake to respect cultural property, not only located within their own territory, but also within the territory of other States Parties, during times of conflict and occupation. In doing so, they agree to refrain from using cultural property and its immediate surroundings for purposes likely to expose it to destruction or damage in the event of armed conflict. States Parties also agree to refrain from any act of hostility directed against such property.\n\nThe Convention also requires the establishment of special units within national military forces, to be charged with responsibility for the protection of cultural property. Furthermore, States Parties are required to implement criminal sanctions for breaches of the Convention, and to undertake promotion of the Convention to the general public, cultural heritage professionals, the military and law-enforcement agencies.\n\nAn example of the successful implementation of the Hague Convention was the Gulf War, in which many members of the coalition forces (who were either party to the Convention or who, in the instance of the US, were not party to the Convention) accepted the Convention's rules, most notably by creating a \"no-fire target list\" of places where cultural property was known to exist.\n\nThe obligation of States Parties to safeguard cultural property in peacetime is outlined in Article 3. It stipulates:\n\n'The High Contracting Parties undertake to prepare in time of peace for the safeguarding of cultural property situated within their own territory against the foreseeable effects of an armed conflict, by taking such measures, as they consider appropriate.'\n\nThe Hague Convention sets out a minimum level of respect which all States Parties must observe, both in relation to their own national heritage as well as the heritage of other States Parties. States are obliged not to attack cultural property, nor to remove or misappropriate movable property from its territory of origin. Only exceptional cases of 'military necessity' will excuse derogation from this obligation. However, a State Party is not entitled to ignore the Convention's rules by reason of another Party's failure to implement safeguarding measures alone.\n\nThis is set out in Article 4 of the Hague Convention:\n\n'Article 4:\n\n(1) The High Contracting Parties undertake to respect cultural property situated within their own territory as well as within the territory of other High Contracting Parties by refraining from any use of the property and its immediate surroundings or of the appliances in use for its protection for purposes which are likely to expose it to destruction or damage in the event of armed conflict; and by refraining from any act of hostility directed against such property.\n\n(2) The obligations mentioned in paragraph I of the present Article may be waived only in cases where military necessity imperatively requires such a waiver.\n\n(3) The High Contracting Parties further undertake to prohibit, prevent and, if necessary, put a stop to any form of theft, pillage or misappropriation of, and any acts of vandalism directed against, cultural property. They shall, refrain from requisitioning movable cultural property situated in the territory of another High Contracting Party.\n\n(4) They shall refrain from any act directed by way of reprisals against cultural property.\n\n(5) No High Contracting Party may evade the obligations incumbent upon it under the present Article, in respect of another High Contracting Party, by reason of the fact that the latter has not applied the measures of safeguard referred to in Article 3.'\n\nThe rules set out in the Hague Convention also apply to States who are Occupying Powers of territory during conflict or otherwise. The Convention obliges Occupying Powers to respect the cultural property of the occupied territory, and to support local national authorities in its preservation and repair when necessary. This obligation is articulated in Article 5:\n\n'Article 5:\n\n(1) Any High Contracting Party in occupation of the whole or part of the territory of another High Contracting Party shall as far as possible support the competent national authorities of the occupied country in safeguarding and preserving its cultural property.\n\n(2) Should it prove necessary to take measures to preserve cultural property situated in occupied territory and damaged by military operations, and should the competent national authorities be unable to take such measures, the Occupying Power shall, as far as possible, and in close co-operation with such authorities, take the most necessary measures of preservation.\n\n(3) Any High Contracting Party whose government is considered their legitimate government by members of a resistance movement, shall, if possible, draw their attention to the obligation to comply with those provisions of the Conventions dealing with respect for cultural property.'\n\nThe Hague Convention establishes a 'special protection' regime, which obliges States Parties to ensure the immunity of cultural property under special protection from acts of hostility (Articles 8 and 9). Under Article 8, this protection may be granted to one of three categories of cultural property: (1) refuges intended to shelter movable cultural property in the event of armed conflict; (2) centers containing monuments; and (3) other immovable cultural property of very great importance. To receive special protection, cultural property must also be located an adequate distance from an industrial center or location which would render it vulnerable to attack, and must not be used for military purposes.\n\nThe First Protocol was adopted at the same time as the Hague Convention, on 14 May 1954. It specifically applies to movable cultural property only, and prohibits the export of movable property from occupied territory and also requires its return to its original territory at the conclusion of hostilities (Article 1). States Parties under the obligation to prevent the export of such property may be required to pay an indemnity to States whose property was removed during hostilities.\n\nCriminal acts committed against cultural property in the late 1980s and the beginning of the 1990s highlighted the deficiencies in the implementation of the Hague Convention and its First Protocol. As a result of the 'Boylan review' (a review of the Convention led by Professor Patrick Boylan), the Second Protocol to the Hague Convention was adopted at a Diplomatic Conference held at The Hague in March 1999. The Second Protocol seeks complement and expand upon the provisions of the Hague Convention, by including developments in international humanitarian law and cultural property protection which had emerged since 1954. It builds on the provisions contained in the Convention relating to the safeguarding of and respect for cultural property, as well as the conduct of hostilities; thereby providing greater protection for cultural property than that conferred by the Hague Convention and its First Protocol.\n\nOne of the most important features of the Second Protocol is the 'enhanced protection' regime it establishes. This new category of cultural property is outlined in Chapter Three of the Second Protocol. Enhanced protection status means that the relevant cultural property must remain immune from military attack, once it is inscribed on the List of Cultural Property Under Enhanced Protection. While the 1954 Hague Convention requires States not to make any cultural property the object of attack except for cases of 'military necessity', the Second Protocol stipulates that cultural property under enhanced protection must not be made a military target, even if it has (by its use) become a 'military objective'. An attack against cultural property which enjoys enhanced protection status is only excusable if such an attack is the 'only feasible means of terminating the use of property [in that way]' (Article 13).\n\nTo be granted enhanced protection, the cultural property in question must satisfy the three criteria stipulated in Article 10 of the Second Protocol. The three conditions are:\n\n(a) it is cultural heritage of the greatest importance for humanity;\n\n(b) it is protected by adequate domestic legal and administrative measures recognising its exceptional cultural and historic value and ensuring the highest level of protection; and\n\n(c) it is not used for military purposes or to shield military sites and a declaration has been made by the Party which has control over the cultural property, confirming that it will not be so used.\n\nCurrently there are 13 cultural properties from 8 States Parties inscribed on the Enhanced Protection List. These include sites in Azerbaijan, Belgium, Cambodia, Cyprus, Georgia, Italy, Lithuania, and Mali.\n\nArticle 24 of the Second Protocol establishes a 12-member Committee for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. Its members are elected for a term of four years, and an equitable geographic representation is taken into account at the election of its members. The Committee meets once a year in ordinary session, and in extraordinary sessions if and when it deems necessary.\n\nThe Committee is responsible for the granting, suspension and cancellation of enhanced protection to cultural properties nominated by States Parties. It also receives and considers requests for international assistance which are submitted by States, as well as determining the use of the Fund for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. Under Article 27 of the Second Protocol, the Committee also has a mandate to develop Guidelines for the implementation of the Second Protocol.\n\nArticle 29 of the Second Protocol establishes the Fund for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. Its purpose is to provide financial or other assistance for 'preparatory or other measures to be taken in peacetime'. It also provides financial or other assistance in relation to 'emergency, provisional or other measures to protect cultural property during periods of armed conflict', or for recovery at the end of hostilities. The Fund consists of voluntary contributions from States Parties to the Second Protocol. In 2016, the sums of US $50,000 and US $40,000 were provided to Libya and Mali respectively from the Fund, in response to their requests for assistance in the installation of emergency and safeguarding measures.\n\nChapter Four of the Second Protocol specifies sanctions to be imposed for serious violations against cultural property, and defines the conditions in which individual criminal responsibility should apply. This reflects an increased effort to fight impunity through effective criminal prosecution since the adoption of the Hague Convention in 1954. The Second Protocol defines five 'serious violations' for which it establishes individual criminal responsibility (Article 15):\nStates are obligated to adopt appropriate legislation to make these violations criminal offences under their domestic legislation, to stipulate appropriate penalties for these offences, and to establish jurisdiction over these offences (including universal jurisdiction for three of the five serious violations, as set out in Article 16(1)(c)).\n\nAn example of prosecution for crimes against cultural property is \"The Prosecutor v Ahmad Al Faqi Al Mahdi\" case, handed down by the International Criminal Court on 27 September 2016. Al Mahdi was charged with and pleaded guilty to the war crime of intentionally directing attacks against historic monuments and buildings dedicated to religion, and sentenced to nine years' imprisonment. Al Mahdi was a member of the Ansar Eddine group (a group associated with Al Qaeda), and a co-perpetrator of damaging and destroying nine mausoleums and one mosque in Timbuktu, Mali, in 2012.\n\nIn 2016 UNESCO, in collaboration with the Sanremo International Institute of Humanitarian Law, published a manual titled 'Protection of Cultural Property: Military Manual'. This manual outlines the rules and obligations contained in the Second Protocol, and provides practical guidance on how these rules should be implemented by military forces around the world. It also contains suggestions as to best military practices in relation to these obligations. It relates only to the international laws governing armed conflict, and does not discuss military assistance that is provided in connection with other circumstances such as natural disasters.\n\nThe Nazi Party headed by Adolf Hitler rose to power in Germany in 1933 after the country's crippling defeat, and its socioeconomic distress during the years following World War I. World War II was aimed at reclaiming the glory of the once great Germanic state. Cultural property of many European nations and significant ethnic and social groups within them fell victim to Nazi Germany. The Nazi party, through the Third Reich, confiscated close to 20% of all Western European art during the war. By the end of the Second World War, the Nazi party had looted and collected thousands of objects, art works and artefacts from occupied nations, destroyed many, or stored them in secret.\n\nWith artists depicting the hardship of the German people after World War I, and further expressing the fear of anti-Semitism and fascism, the Nazi party and Hitler himself soon realised the dangerous power of art, and began to clamp down on artistic production and forcing both artists and the public alike to adhere to a Nazi-approved style.\n\nInherent within the Nazi's ideology was the idea of supremacy of the Aryan Race and all that it produced; as such the Nazi campaign's aims were to neutralize non-Germanic cultures and this was done through the destruction of culturally significant art and artefacts. This is illustrated greatest in the Jewish communities throughout Europe; by devising a series of laws that allowed them to justify and regulate the legal confiscation of cultural and personal property. Within Germany the looting of German Jewish cultural property began with the confiscation of non-Germanic artwork in the German state collection. Further, artists that were Jewish and artworks that did not match the Nazi ideology, or posed a threat to it, were stamped as degenerate art. Degenerate works of art, culminating in the infamous exhibition with the same name, were those whose subject, artist, or art was either Jewish or expressed Anti-Nazi sentiments, and was as such offensive to the Third Reich.\n\nJewish collections were looted the most throughout the war. German Jews were ordered to report their personal assets, which were then privatized by the country. Jewish owned art galleries were forced to sell the works of art they housed. The Nazis concentrated their efforts on ensuring that all art within Germany would be Aryan in nature, speaking to the might of the Germanic state rather than Jewish art which was deemed as a blight on society. In a feat to \"purge\" German museums and collections, confiscation committees seized approximately 16,000 items within Germany. The remaining unexploited art was destroyed in massive bonfires. As the war progressed, the Nazi party elite ordered the confiscation of cultural property throughout various European countries.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, Nazi plunder of cultural significant art is best illustrated in the Third Reich's pillage of the Catherine Palace near St Petersburg and its famous Amber Room dating to the early 1700s. In October 1941, the Nazis had occupied the western portion of the Soviet Union, and began removing art treasures to the west. The entirety of the Amber Room was removed to Königsberg and reconstructed there. In January 1945, with the Russian army advancing on the city, the Amber Room was ordered to be moved again but its fate is thereafter unclear. A post-war Russian report concluded that 'summarizing all the facts, we can say that the Amber Room was destroyed between 9 and 11 April 1945' during the battle to take the city. However, in the absence of definitive proof, other theories about its fate continue to be entertained to the present day. With financial assistance from German donors, Russian craftsmen reconstructed a new Amber Room during the 1990s. The new room was dedicated by Russian President Vladimir Putin and German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder at the 300th anniversary of the city of Saint Petersburg.\n\nWith the conclusion of the Second World War and the subsequent defeat of the Axis Powers, the atrocities which the Nazi leadership condoned, leading to the removal of culturally significant items and the destruction of numerous others could not be allowed to occur in future generations. This led the victorious Allied forces to create provisions to ensure safeguards for culturally significant items in times of war. As a result, following the signature of the Roerich Pact by the American States in 1935, attempts were undertaken to draft a more comprehensive convention for the protection of monuments and works of art in time of war. In 1939, a draft convention, elaborated under the auspices of the International Museums Office, was presented to governments by the Netherlands. Due to the onset of the Second World War the draft convention was shelved with no further steps being taken. With the conclusion of the war, a new proposal was submitted to UNESCO by the Netherlands in 1948. The General Conference of UNESCO in 1951 decided to convene a committee of government experts to draft a convention. This committee met in 1952 and thereafter submitted its drafts to the General Conference. The intergovernmental Conference, which drew up and adopted the Convention and the further Acts, took place at The Hague from 21 April to 14 May 1954 where 56 States were represented. Following this international agreement The Hague Convention For the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict would come into force in 1956 in order to be an instrument of non derogation for the states bound by the document to stop the looting and destruction of cultural property.\n\nThe Rome Statute, adopted in July 1998 and entering into force four years later, as the legal basis of the International Criminal Court (ICC), defines in Article 8(2) deliberate attacks against buildings of a religious, educational, artistic, scientific or non-profit nature and against historical monuments as war crimes in both international and non-international armed conflicts. The International Criminal Court is thus authorised to prosecute such crimes if such an act was committed either by a national of a Contracting Party or on the territory of a Contracting Party. However, it only exercises its competence if the country concerned is unwilling or unable to ensure effective prosecution itself. Since September 2015, Ahmad Al Faqi Al Mahdi has been charged with the destruction of mausoleums in Timbuktu in the first trial before the ICC over the destruction of cultural assets.\n\nArticle 3 of the Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia also contains provisions that allow the prosecution of violations of the fundamental principles of the Hague Convention of 1954. On the basis of this article, for the first time since the conclusion of the Convention, proceedings were brought in an international court for the destruction of cultural property during an armed conflict.\n\nFrom the time of its establishment the city of Dubrovnik was under the protection of the Byzantine Empire; after the Fourth Crusade the city came under the sovereignty of Venice 1205–1358 CE, and by the Treaty of Zadar in 1358, it became part of the Hungarian-Croatian Kingdom. Following the 1815 Congress of Vienna, the city was annexed by Austria and remained part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire until the conclusion of the First World War. From 1918 to 1939 Dubrovnik was part of the Zetska Banovina District that established its Croatian connections. From 1945 to 1990 Croatia would become part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. One of the most striking features of the historic city of Dubrovnik, and that which gives its characteristic appearance are its intact medieval fortifications. Its historic city walls run uninterrupted encircling the Old-City. This complex structure of fortification is one of the most complete depictions of medieval construction in the Mediterranean, consisting of a series of forts, bastions, casemates, towers and detached forts. Within the Old City are many medieval churches, cathedrals, and palaces from the Baroque period, encircled by its fortified wall, which would ensure its listed place by UNESCO as a world heritage site in 1972. The Old Town is not only an architectural and urban ensemble of high quality, but it is also full of museums and libraries, such as the collection of the Ragusan masters in the Dominican Monastery, the Museum of the History of Dubrovnik, the Icon Museum, and the libraries of the Franciscan and Dominican Monasteries. It also houses the archives of Ragusa, which have been kept continuously since the 13th century and are a very important source for Mediterranean history. The archives hold materials created by the civil service in the Republic of Ragusa.\n\nThe Siege of Dubrovnik was a military engagement fought between the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA) and Croatian forces which defended the city of Dubrovnik and its surroundings during the Croatian War of Independence. The Old Town was specifically targeted by the JNA even though it served no military purpose to bomb this town. At the heart of the bombing efforts by the JNA elite was the complete eradication of the memory of the Croatian people and history by erasing their cultural heritage and destroying their cultural property. The court's convictions, which among other charges were also based on this article, were issued in February 2001 against Dario Kordić, a commander of the Croatian Defence Council (HVO) during the war in Bosnia, against Miodrag Jokić, a senior commander in the navy of the Yugoslav People's Army during the Battle of Dubrovnik in 1991, and against Milan Martić, a politician and military leader of the internationally unrecognized Republic of Serbian Krajina. The attacks on the Herzegovinian city of Mostar, which in November 1993 led to the destruction of the Stari most bridge, internationally recognised as an outstanding cultural asset, led to the trial of six defendants before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in April 2006. Among them is the Croatian General Slobodan Praljak, who is suspected of having ordered the fire on the bridge.\n\nThe historic town of Mostar, spanning a deep valley of the Neretva River, developed in the 15th and 16th centuries as an Ottoman frontier town and during the Austro-Hungarian period in the 19th and 20th centuries. Mostar was mostly known for its old Turkish houses and specifically the Old Bridge; the Stari Mostar, after which it is named. In the 1990s conflict with the former Yugoslavia, however, most of the historic town and the Old Bridge were destroyed purposely by Croatian Army and their allies. This type of destruction was in step with that of the Old Town of Dubrovnik, where the aim was the eradication of the memory of the people that once occupied the land, an effort reminiscent of the Third Reich and the Nazi party. The attacks on the Herzegovinian city of Mostar, which in November 1993 led to the destruction of the Stari most bridge, internationally recognised as an outstanding cultural asset, led to the trial of six defendants before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in April 2006. Among them is the Croatian General Slobodan Praljak, who is suspected of having ordered the firing of the bridge.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge Tribunal, established by the United Nations together with the government of Cambodia in July 2006, has the possibility of prosecuting the destruction of cultural assets during the Khmer Rouge dictatorship from April 1975 to January 1979, with explicit reference to the Hague Convention of 1954, pursuant to Article 7 of the Law on the Establishment of Extraordinary Chambers. During this time, most of the more than 3,300 temples and 130 mosques in Cambodia were severely damaged by the Khmer Rouge. They also destroyed all 73 Catholic churches and many other sites of religious or cultural significance. The Hague Convention of 1954 can be applied in principle, since Cambodia became a party to the Convention in 1962, before the Khmer Rouge came to power, and because Article 19 of the Convention stipulates that even in non-international armed conflicts, each party to the conflict is bound at least by the provisions on respect for cultural property.\n\nHowever, it is not yet known whether and to what extent trials will be instituted in the court which are based on the destruction of cultural property. A possible problem with the application of Article 7 and thus with the Hague Convention, is that it is a legal requirement to establish the existence of an armed conflict. This would then resemble the definition commonly used in international humanitarian law. Whether such an assessment of the Khmer Rouge dictatorship will be possible, cannot yet be predicted.\n\nDeliberate destruction and theft of cultural heritage has been conducted by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant since 2014 in Iraq, Syria, and to a lesser extent in Libya. The destruction targets various places of worship under ISIL control and ancient historical artifacts. In Iraq, between the fall of Mosul in June 2014 and February 2015, ISIL has plundered and destroyed at least 28 historical religious buildings. The valuable items from some buildings were looted in order to smuggle and sell them to finance ISIL activities.\n\nAlthough Libya, Syria and Iraq ratified the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict in 1957, 1958 and 1967 respectively, it has not been effectively enforced.\n\nAs of June 2018, 131 states have become party to the Hague Convention of 1954 and 109 states to the first protocol. 77 states have become party to the Second Protocol of 1999.\n\nOf the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, France became a party in 1957. Russia is contracting party in legal succession of the Soviet Union, which also became party in 1957. the People's Republic of China ratified the convention in 2000 and the United States acceded in 2009. The United Kingdom signed the Agreement in 1954 and ratified the Convention and acceded to the Protocols in 2017.\n\nThe main reason for the long period between signature and ratification by the United States were the reservations of the US Department of Defense during the Cold War, that the Convention's obligations regarding the possible use of nuclear weapons could not be fulfilled. The Joint Chiefs of Staff, to which the commanders-in-chief of all units of the American armed forces belong, unanimously declared itself in 1995 in favour of voluntary compliance with the Convention. On 6 January 1999, then US President Bill Clinton recommended that the US Senate ratify both agreements. In his opinion, they were not only in accordance with the principles and methods of the American Armed Forces, but were even based on them in essential aspects. After the Senate approved accession in September 2008, the US Ambassador to UNESCO, Stephen Engelken, handed over the instrument of ratification to Kōichirō Matsuura, Secretary-General of UNESCO on 13 March 2009. On the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Convention on 14 May 2004, the Government of the United Kingdom declared its intention to become a party to the Convention and the two Protocols. This was due to the conclusion of the Second Protocol of 1999, which, in the view of the British government, eliminated essential weaknesses and ambiguities of the 1954 Convention. A draft law containing ratification of the Convention, the two protocols and criminal law provisions was announced by the UK government in November 2006.\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), a legally independent specialized agency of the United Nations based in Paris, and is the most important international institution in the field of dissemination and implementation of the protection of cultural property in armed conflicts. It acts as depositary of the Hague Convention of 1954 and its two Protocols and administers the \"International Register of Cultural Property under Special Protection\".\n\nIn addition, Blue Shield International (formerly the International Committee of the Blue Shield, ICBS; in French Comité International du Bouclier Bleu, CIBB) has existed since 1996. Its mission is to improve international cooperation in the field of cultural heritage protection and to support local and regional activities. The Second Protocol of 1999 explicitly mentions in Articles 11 and 27 the consultative role of the International Committee of the Blue Shield in the implementation of the Agreement. Since the International Committee was founded in 2017, national Blue Shield Committees have already been established in Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Benin, Brazil, Chile, Curacao, Denmark, France, Georgia, Guatemala, Haiti, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Madagascar, Macedonia, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania, Senegal, Spain, the Czech Republic, Ukraine and the USA, comparable to the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement. These national associations support the work of the International Committee in their respective home countries. The Association of the National Committees of the Blue Shield (ANCBS) was established on September 28, 2006 as its umbrella organization. Since 2017, all international activities have been bundled in Blue Shield International.\n\nWhile in many wars the freedom of movement of United Nations personnel is significantly restricted due to security concerns, Blue Shield is regarded as particularly suitable due to its structure to act flexibly and autonomously in armed conflicts. Despite the partial dissolution of state structures and the very unclear security situation resulting from the wars and unrest in Iraq, Syria, Mali, Egypt and Libya, the employees of Blue Shield and its national organizations then carried out very robust undertakings to protect the cultural assets there. This concerns in particular the collection of cultural assets to be protected, the compilation with local experts of \"no-strike lists\" (- which preserve the coordinates of important cultural monuments), the linking of civil and military structures and the training of local military personnel with regard to the protection of cultural assets. From Blue Shield's point of view, it is not enough to develop and adopt international law norms such as the Second Protocol to the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict or the Doha Statement of the Conference of 'Ulamâ on Islam and Cultural Heritage'. It is necessary to implement these standards effectively on a global scale. This also concerns the prevention of the illicit trade in antiquities and stolen cultural assets to finance military conflicts. As a result of the destruction of cultural assets by armed conflict, war and unrest in Iraq, Syria, Mali or Afghanistan, but also by earthquakes such as in Haiti or Nepal, cooperation has developed between Blue-Shield and national armed forces such as the US Army or the British Army.\n\nThe \"International League of National Societies for the Protection of Cultural Property\", based in the Swiss city of Freiburg, was also established in May 1997 as an international umbrella organisation. Through the activities of these national and international organisations and associations, which also include the protection of cultural property against disasters in times of peace, civil society structures will play an increasing role in the field of cultural property protection and support the work of state and international institutions.\n\nOne example of international cooperation in the protection of cultural assets was the temporary storage of art treasures from the National Museum in Kabul, Afghanistan, in Switzerland. The art objects, which were severely threatened in the National Museum both by the Afghan Civil War (1996–2001) that lasted until 1995 and by the subsequent rule of the Taliban regime, were moved to a so-called \"Afghanistan Museum in Exile\" in the Swiss town of Bubendorf in 1999 with the consent of all parties to the conflict. The exhibition, which was supported primarily by the voluntary work of Swiss citizens and exiled Afghans, as well as by donations of around 1.5 million Swiss francs and supervised by the Swiss Afghanistan Institute based in Bubendorf, was open to the public from October 2000 to October 2006 and was visited by around 50,000 people during this time. In March 2007, the objects were returned to Kabul under the direction of UNESCO and with the support of the German Air Force. According to the spokesman of the Bubendorf Museum, this was the largest return of art objects since the end of the Second World War.\n\nIn contrast, the Iraqi National Museum in Baghdad was seriously plundered from 8 to 12 April 2003, some three weeks after the start of the Iraq War. The museum was reopened only three years earlier on 28 April 2000, some nine years after its closure as a result of the war. Later investigations carried out by a US commission in collaboration with museum staff found evidence of at least three independent incidents.[1] According to the Commission's findings, the looting was sometimes spontaneous and indiscriminate. However, a number of indications also indicated that some of the thieves had a good knowledge of the museum and expert knowledge of the cultural assets on display. Although particularly valuable objects were kept in the cellar of the museum in the run-up to the war, considerable losses were also incurred here. The Commission corrected initial estimates of some 170,000 stolen works of art to 11,000 to 15,000 stolen objects. By the time the study results were published in 2005, about 5,000 of them had been recovered in various ways.\n\nIn contrast, the Iraqi National Museum in Baghdad was heavily plundered and damaged from 8 to 12 April 2003, some three weeks after the start of the Iraq war. The museum was reopened only three years earlier on 28 April 2000, nine years after its closure as a result of the Second Gulf War. Later investigations carried out by a US commission in collaboration with museum staff found evidence of at least three independent incidents. According to the Commission's findings, the looting was sometimes spontaneous and indiscriminate. However, a number of indications also pointed out that the thieves had a good knowledge of the museum and expert knowledge of the cultural assets on display. Although particularly valuable objects were kept in the cellar of the museum in the run-up to the war, considerable losses were also incurred here. The Commission corrected initial estimates of some 170,000 stolen works of art to 11,000–15,000 stolen objects. By the time the study results were published in 2005, about 5,000 of them had been recovered in various ways.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35307232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35307232", "title": "Hall v Hebert", "text": "Hall v Hebert\n\nHall v Hebert is a leading tort law case decided by the Supreme Court of Canada on the defences of contributory negligence and \"ex turpi causa non oritur actio\" (that a plaintiff cannot recover for illegal actions). \n\nThe Court held that illegality can only act as a defence where the plaintiff is seeking to profit from illegal conduct or where a tort action is being used to circumvent or negate a criminal penalty.\n\nThe defendant, Jean Hebert, owned a 1968 Pontiac Firebird, and had been drinking with the plaintiff, Vincent Hall. They were out driving when the car stalled on a rough gravel road near steep drop-off. \n\nThe plaintiff, originally the passenger, asked if he could drive in an attempt to roll start the car. The defendant agreed, aware that he had consumed 11 or 12 bottles of beer that evening. The plaintiff lost control of the car, which left the road down the steep slope and flipped over. The plaintiff suffered severe head injuries as a result.\n\nAt trial the judge found the defendant liable for negligence but apportioned liability at 75 percent to the defendant and 25 percent to the plaintiff. The central issue on appeal was whether the doctrine \"ex turpi causa non oritur actio\" provided a complete defence.\n\nThe majority of the Court held that illegal conduct can bar recovery in tort only limited circumstances. The defence only operated when the integrity of the legal system is threatened by the claim, such as in situations where the plaintiff is attempting to profit from his illegal conduct, or when a tort claim is used to circumvent, subvert, or negate a criminal penalty.\n\nFurther, the doctrine of \"ex turpi causa\" can only be used as a defence and cannot be used to negate a duty of care, because it would inappropriately place an onus on the plaintiff to show absence of illegal or immoral conduct; the duty of care cannot be selectively applied to heads of damage; and the consideration of illegal or immoral conduct in duty of care would raise procedural problems where there are concurrent claims.\n\nIn the result, the plaintiff in this case was not seeking to profit from his illegal conduct (drinking and driving), nor was he circumventing the criminal law. However, he was contributorily negligent - therefore the damages were reduced to 50 percent.\n\nFollowing this decision, the doctrine of \"ex turpi causa\" had a very limited application, and some commentators noted that the decision \"for all practical purposes, makes the defence of illegality inapplicable to negligence actions.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court revisited the doctrine in \"British Columbia v. Zastowny\", where they applied the decision in \"Hall\" to hold that a person is not entitled to compensation for unemployment during a prison sentence, except in circumstances such as a wrongful conviction. This followed from the rationale that such compensation would create a clash between the criminal justice system and civil law, which would compromise the integrity of the legal system.\n"}
{"id": "252344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=252344", "title": "Henry James Sumner Maine", "text": "Henry James Sumner Maine\n\nSir Henry James Sumner Maine, (15 August 1822 – 3 February 1888), was a British Whig comparative jurist and historian. He is famous for the thesis outlined in his book \"Ancient Law\" that law and society developed \"from status to contract.\" According to the thesis, in the ancient world individuals were tightly bound by status to traditional groups, while in the modern one, in which individuals are viewed as autonomous agents, they are free to make contracts and form associations with whomever they choose. Because of this thesis, Maine can be seen as one of the forefathers of modern legal anthropology, legal history and sociology of law.\n\nMaine was the son of Dr. James Maine, of Kelso, Roxburghshire. He was educated at Christ's Hospital, where a boarding house was named after him in 1902. From there he went up to Pembroke College, Cambridge, in 1840. At Cambridge, he was noted as a classical scholar and also won the Chancellor's Gold Medal for poetry in 1842. He won a Craven scholarship and graduated as senior classic in 1844, being also senior chancellor's medallist in classics. He was a Cambridge Apostle.\n\nShortly afterwards, he accepted a tutorship at Trinity Hall. In 1847, he was appointed regius professor of civil law, and he was called to the bar three years later; he held this chair till 1854. Meanwhile, in 1852 he had become one of the readers appointed by the Inns of Court.\n\nThe post of legal member of council in India was offered to Maine in 1861; he declined it once, on grounds of health. The following year Maine was persuaded to accept, and it turned out that India suited him much better than Cambridge or London. He was asked to prolong his services beyond the regular term of five years, and he returned to England in 1869.\n\nThe subjects on which it was Maine's duty to advise the government of India were as much political as legal. They ranged from such problems as the land settlement of the Punjab, or the introduction of civil marriage to provide for the needs of unorthodox Hindus, to the question of how far the study of Persian should be required or encouraged among European civil servants. Plans of codification were prepared, and largely shaped, under Maine's direction, which were implemented by his successors, Sir James Fitzjames Stephen and Dr Whitley Stokes.\n\nMaine became a member of the secretary of state's council in 1871 and remained so for the rest of his life. In the same year he was gazetted a K.C.S.I.\n\nIn 1869, Maine was appointed to the chair of historical and comparative jurisprudence newly founded in the University of Oxford by Corpus Christi College. Residence at Oxford was not required, and the election amounted to an invitation to the new professor to resume and continue in his own way the work he had begun in \"Ancient Law\".\n\nIn 1877, the mastership of Trinity Hall, Cambridge, where Maine had formerly been tutor, became vacant. There were two strong candidates whose claims were so nearly equal that it was difficult to elect either; the difficulty was solved by a unanimous invitation to Maine to accept the post. His acceptance entailed the resignation of the Oxford chair, though not continuous residence at Cambridge. Ten years later, he was elected to succeed Sir William Harcourt as Whewell Professor of International Law at Cambridge.\n\nMaine's health, which had never been strong, gave way towards the end of 1887. He went to the Riviera under medical advice, and died at Cannes, France, on 3 February 1888. He left a wife, Jane, and two sons, of whom the elder died soon afterwards.\n\nMaine wrote journalism in 1851 for the \"Morning Chronicle\", edited by John Douglas Cook. With Cook and others, in 1855, he then founded and edited the \"Saturday Review\", writing for it to 1861. Like his close friend James Fitzjames Stephen, he enjoyed occasional article-writing, and never quite abandoned it.\n\nMaine contributed to the \"Cambridge Essays\" an essay on Roman law and legal education, republished in the later editions of \"Village Communities\". Lectures delivered by Maine for the Inns of Court were the groundwork of \"Ancient Law\" (1861), the book by which his reputation was made at one stroke. Its object, as stated in the preface, was \"to indicate some of the earliest ideas of mankind, as they are reflected in ancient law, and to point out the relation of those ideas to modern thought.\" He published the substance of his Oxford lectures: \"Village Communities in the East and the West\" (1871); \"Early History of Institutions\" (1875); \"Early Law and Custom\" (1883). In all these works, the phenomena of societies in an archaic stage are brought into line to illustrate the process of development in legal and political ideas (see freedom of contract).\n\nAs vice-chancellor of the University of Calcutta, Maine commented on the results produced by the contact of Eastern and Western thought. Three of these addresses were published, wholly or in part, in the later editions of \"Village Communities\"; the substance of others is in the Rede lecture of 1875, in the same volume. An essay on India was his contribution to the composite work entitled \"The Reign of Queen Victoria\" (editor Thomas Humphry Ward, 1887).\n\nHis brief work in international law is represented by the posthumous volume \"International Law\" (1888). Maine had published in 1885 his one work of speculative politics, a volume of essays on \"Popular Government\", designed to show that democracy is not in itself more stable than any other form of government and that there is no necessary connexion between democracy and progress.\n\nIn 1886, there appeared in the \"Quarterly Review\" an article on the posthumous work of J. F. McLennan, edited and completed by his brother, entitled \"The Patriarchal Theory\". The article, though unsigned by the rule of the \"Quarterly\" at the time, was Maine's reply to the McLennan brothers' attack on the historical reconstruction of the Indo-European family system put forward in \"Ancient Law\" and supplemented in \"Early Law and Custom\". Maine charged McLennan in his theory of primitive society with neglecting and misunderstanding of the Indo-European evidence.\n\nA summary of Maine's writings was in Sir Mountstuart Grant Duff's memoir.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2680674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2680674", "title": "International Building Code", "text": "International Building Code\n\nThe International Building Code (IBC) is a model building code developed by the International Code Council (ICC). It has been adopted for use as a base code standard by most jurisdictions in the United States. It may also be used in Abu Dhabi, the Caribbean Community, Colombia, Georgia, Honduras, Afghanistan and Saudi Arabia. The IBC addresses both health and safety concerns for buildings based upon prescriptive and performance related requirements. The IBC is fully compatible with all other published ICC codes. The code provisions are intended to protect public health and safety while avoiding both unnecessary costs and preferential treatment of specific materials or methods of construction.\n\nSince the early twentieth century, the system of building regulations in the United States has been based on model building codes developed by three \"regional\" model code groups. The codes developed by the Building Officials Code Administrators International (BOCA) were used on the East Coast and throughout the Midwest of the United States. The codes from the Southern Building Code Congress International (SBCCI) were used in the Southeast. The codes published by the International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO) were used primarily throughout the West Coast and across a large swath of the middle of the country to most of the Midwest.\n\nAlthough regional code development had been effective and responsive to the regulatory needs of local U.S. jurisdictions, by the early 1990s it had become obvious that the country needed a single coordinated set of national model building codes. Therefore, the nation’s three model code groups decided to combine their efforts, and in 1994 formed the International Code Council (ICC) to develop codes that would have no regional limitations.\n\nAfter three years of extensive research and development, the first edition of the International Building Code was published in 1997. A new code edition has since been released every three years thereafter. The code was patterned on three legacy codes previously developed by the organizations that constitute ICC. By the year 2000, ICC had completed the International Codes series and ceased development of the legacy codes in favor of their national successor. The word \"International\" in the names of the ICC and all three of its predecessors, as well as the IBC and other ICC products, despite all 18 of the company's board members being residents of The U.S. reflects the fact that a number of other countries in the Caribbean and Latin America had already begun to rely on model building codes developed in the United States rather than developing their own from scratch. Thus, ICC from its inception was well aware that it was writing model codes for an international audience. \n\n\nThe National Fire Protection Association, initially joined ICC in a collective effort to develop the International Fire Code (IFC). This effort however fell apart at the completion of the first draft of the document. Subsequent efforts by ICC and NFPA to reach agreement on this and other documents were unsuccessful, resulting in a series of disputes between the two organizations. After several failed attempts to find common ground with the ICC, NFPA withdrew from participation in development of the International Codes and joined with the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (IAPMO), the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) and the Western Fire Chiefs Association to create an alternative set of codes. First published in 2002, the code set named the Comprehensive Consensus Codes, or C3, includes the \"NFPA 5000\" building code as its centerpiece and several companion codes such as the National Electrical Code, NFPA 101 Life Safety Code, Uniform Plumbing Code, Uniform Mechanical Code, and NFPA 1. Unlike the IBC, the NFPA 5000 conformed to ANSI-established policies and procedures for the development of voluntary consensus standards.\n\nThe NFPA's move to introduce a competing building standard received strong opposition from powerful trade groups such as the American Institute of Architects (AIA), BOMA International and the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB). After several unsuccessful attempts to encourage peaceful cooperation between NFPA and ICC and resolution of their disputes over code development, a number of organizations, including AIA, BOMA and two dozen commercial real estate associations, founded the \"Get It Together\" coalition, which repeatedly urged NFPA to abandon code development related to NFPA 5000 and to work with ICC to integrate the other NFPA codes and standards into the ICC family of codes.\n\nInitially, under Governor Gray Davis, California had adopted the NFPA 5000 codes as a baseline for the future California Building Code, but in 2003, Davis was recalled from office and Arnold Schwarzenegger was elected to replace him. Upon taking office, Schwarzenegger rescinded Davis's directive, and the state adopted the IBC instead. Adopting NFPA 5000 would have caused a disparity between California and the majority of other states which had adopted the IBC. With IBC's adoption, the legacy ICBO had started in California and which was headquartered in Whittier, California, continues.\n\nA large portion of the International Building Code deals with fire prevention. It differs from the related International Fire Code in that the IBC addresses fire prevention in regard to \"construction and design\" and the fire code addresses fire prevention in regard to the operation of a completed and occupied building. For example, the building code sets criteria for the number, size and location of exits in the design of a building while the fire code requires the exits of a completed and occupied building to be unblocked. The building code also deals with access for the disabled and structural stability (including earthquakes). The International Building Code applies to all structures in areas where it is adopted, except for one and two family dwellings (see International Residential Code).\n\nParts of the code reference other codes including the International Plumbing Code, the International Mechanical Code, the National Electric Code, and various National Fire Protection Association standards. Therefore, if a municipality adopts the International Building Code, it also adopts those parts of other codes referenced by the IBC. Often, the plumbing, mechanical, and electric codes are adopted along with the building code.\n\nThe code book itself (2000 edition) totals over 700 pages and chapters include:\n\nUse of the term International: \"Calling it 'international' keeps it from being called the 'U.S. Building Code.' explains Bill Tangye, SBCCI Chief Executive Officer. \"Some U.S. Model codes are already used outside the United States. Bermuda uses BOCA, and Western Somoa uses ICBO.\"\n\nThe phrase \"means of egress\" refers to the ability to exit the structure, primarily in the event of an emergency, such as a fire. Specifically, a means of egress is broken into three parts: the path of travel to an exit, the exit itself, and the exit discharge (the path to a safe area outside). The code also address the number of exits required for a structure based on its intended occupancy use and the number of people who could be in the place at one time as well as their relative locations. It also deals with special needs, such as hospitals, nursing homes, and prisons where evacuating people may have special requirements. In some instances, requirements are made based on possible hazards (such as in industries) where flammable or toxic chemicals will be in use.\n\n\"Accessibility\" refers to the accommodation of physically challenged people in structures. This includes maneuvering from public transportation, building entry, parking spaces, elevators, and restrooms. This term replaces the term \"handicapped\" (handicapped parking, handicapped restroom) which is generally found to be derogatory.\n\nAccessibility can include domotics rules.\n\nBuilding code requirements generally apply to the construction of new buildings and alterations or additions to existing buildings, changes in the use of buildings, and the demolition of buildings or portions of buildings at the ends of their useful or economic lives. As such, building codes obtain their effect from the voluntary decisions of property owners to erect, alter, add to, or demolish a building in a jurisdiction where a building code applies, because these circumstances routinely require a permit. The plans are subject to review for compliance with current building codes as part of the permit application process. Generally, building codes are not otherwise retroactive except to correct an imminent hazard. However, accessibility standards – similar to those referenced in the model building codes – may be retroactive subject to the applicability of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) which is a federal civil rights requirement.\n\nAlterations and additions to an existing building must usually comply with all new requirements applicable to their scope as related to the intended use of the building as defined by the adopted code (e.g., Section 101.2 Scope, International Building Code, any version). Some changes in the use of a building often expose the entire building to the requirement to comply fully with provisions of the code applicable to the new use because the applicability of the code is use-specific. A change in use usually changes the applicability of code requirements and as such, will subject the building to review for compliance with the currently applicable codes (refer to Section 3408, Change of Occupancy, International Building Code – 2009).\n\nExisting buildings are not exempt from new requirements, with the IBC publishing a Building Code for existing buildings. Existing Building Codes are intended to provide alternative approaches to repair, alteration, and additions to existing buildings. At minimum, this ensures that any new construction maintains the current level of compliance or are improved to meet basic safety levels.\n\nAlthough such remedial enactments address existing conditions, they do not violate the United States Constitution's ban on the adoption of ex post facto law, as they do not criminalize or seek to punish past conduct. Such requirements merely prohibit the maintenance or continuance of conditions that would prove injurious to a member of the public or the broader public interest.\n\nMany jurisdictions have found the application of new requirements to old, particularly historic buildings, challenging. New Jersey, for example, has adopted specific state amendments (see New Jersey's Rehabilitation Subcode)to provide a means of code compliance to existing structures without forcing the owner to comply with rigid requirements of the currently adopted Building Codes where it may be technically infeasible to do so. California has also enacted a specific historic building code (see 2001 California Historic Building Code). Other states require compliance with building and fire codes, subject to reservations, limitations, or jurisdictional discretion to protect historic building stock as a condition of nominating or listing a building for preservation or landmark status, especially where such status attracts tax credits, investment of public money, or other incentives.\n\nThe listing of a building on the National Register of Historic Places does not exempt it from compliance with state or local building code requirements. \n\nUpdated editions of the IBC are published on a three-year cycle (2000, 2003, 2006, 2009, 2012, 2015, 2018, 2021…). This fixed schedule has led other organizations, which produce referenced standards, to align their publishing schedule with that of the IBC, such as the NEC and California Building Code (2005, 2008, 2011, 2014, 2017...). \n\nModel building codes rely heavily on referenced standards as published and promulgated by other standards organizations such as ASTM (ASTM International), ANSI (American National Standards Institute), and NFPA (National Fire Protection Association). The structural provisions rely heavily on referenced standards, such as the Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Structures published by the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE-7) and the Specification for Structural Steel Buildings by the American Institute of Steel Construction (ANSI/AISC 360).\n\nChanges in parts of the reference standard can result in disconnection between the corresponding editions of the reference standards.\n\nMany states or municipalities in the United States of America adopt the ICC family of codes.\n\nIn the wake of the Federal copyright case \"Veeck v. Southern Building Code Congress Int'l, Inc.\", the organization Public Resource has published a substantial portion of the enacted building codes on-line, and they are available as PDFs.\n\n"}
{"id": "48654409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48654409", "title": "John J. Senn", "text": "John J. Senn\n\nJohn Jacob Senn (March 28, 1828 – May 20, 1893) was a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly.\n\nSenn was born in Toggenburg, Switzerland in March 1828, sources have differed on the exact date. He became a bugler in the Swiss military. In 1855, he settled in Fountain City, Wisconsin. Jobs Senn held up to that point include that of teacher. On May 8, 1861, he married Elsbeth Weibel. They had three children. During the American Civil War, Senn enlisted with the 9th Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry Regiment of the Union Army. Later, he became involved in the insurance industry, including working as an agent.\n\nSenn was a member of the Assembly in 1877 and 1878. Other positions he held include County Treasurer and a member and President of the Board of Supervisors of Buffalo County, Wisconsin. He was a Republican.\n\n"}
{"id": "42051647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42051647", "title": "Journal of Intellectual Property Rights", "text": "Journal of Intellectual Property Rights\n\nThe Journal of Intellectual Property Rights is a bimonthly peer-reviewed law journal covering intellectual property law that is published by the Indian National Institute of Science Communication and Information Resources. The journal was established in 1996 and publishes contributed and invited articles, case studies, patent reviews, technical notes on current IPR issues, literature reviews, world literature on intellectual property rights, national and international news, book reviews, and conference reports covering topics on trademarks, patents, copyright law, trade secrets, and internet law. The journal is abstracted and indexed in Scopus. The editor-in-chief is Madhu Sahni (National Institute of Science Communication and Information Resources).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12951923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12951923", "title": "Judge Bao fiction", "text": "Judge Bao fiction\n\nJudge Bao (or Justice Bao (包青天)) stories in literature and performing arts are some of the most popular in traditional Chinese crime fiction (\"gong'an\" fiction). All stories involve the Song dynasty minister Bao Zheng who solves, judges and sentences criminal cases.\n\nIn the Yuan Dynasty, many plays (in the forms of \"qu\" and \"zaju\") have featured Bao Zheng as the central character. These plays include:\n\n\nIn 1594, the Yupan tang (與畔堂) bookstore owner An Yushi (安遇時) published the first Judge Bao-themed short story collection \"Cases of A Hundred Families Judged by Dragon-Design Bao\" (包龍圖判百家公案).\n\nJudge Bao stories in other collections include: \n\nIn 2010, the scholar Wilt Idema published an annotated translation of eight ballad-stories (\"chantefable\") from a late Ming dynasty collection printed in Beijing in the late Ming and which had recently been found in a tomb. \n\nAll of these cases have been favorites in Chinese opera.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "364818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364818", "title": "Karin Kiwus", "text": "Karin Kiwus\n\nKarin Kiwus (born 9 November 1942) is a German poet from Berlin. After studying journalism, German studies and politology she worked as an editor as well as a university teacher in Austin, Texas. She was the domestic partner of the German film director Frank Beyer until his death in 2006. She has been active in the field of collaborative poetry, writing renshi under the guidance of Makoto Ooka.\n\n"}
{"id": "456478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=456478", "title": "Lascelles Principles", "text": "Lascelles Principles\n\nThe Lascelles Principles were a constitutional convention in the United Kingdom between 1950 and 2011, under which the Sovereign could refuse a request from the Prime Minister to dissolve Parliament if three conditions were met:\n\nThe convention has been in abeyance since 2011, when the Sovereign's prerogative power to dissolve Parliament was removed by the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011.\n\nDuring public discussion of the King's potential response to the outcome of the 1950 general election, which returned a very slim Labour Party majority in the House of Commons, the Lascelles Principles were formally stated in a letter by Sir Alan Lascelles, Private Secretary to King George VI, under the pseudonym \"Senex\" to the Editor of \"The Times\", published on 2 May 1950:\nTo the Editor of The Times\n\nSir, It is surely indisputable (and common sense) that a Prime Minister may ask—not demand—that his Sovereign will grant him a dissolution of Parliament; and that the Sovereign, if he so chooses, may refuse to grant this request. The problem of such a choice is entirely personal to the Sovereign, though he is, of course, free to seek informal advice from anybody whom he thinks fit to consult.\n\nIn so far as this matter can be publicly discussed, it can be properly assumed that no wise Sovereign—that is, one who has at heart the true interest of the country, the constitution, and the Monarchy—would deny a dissolution to his Prime Minister unless he were satisfied that: (1) the existing Parliament was still vital, viable, and capable of doing its job; (2) a General Election would be detrimental to the national economy; (3) he could rely on finding another Prime Minister who could carry on his Government, for a reasonable period, with a working majority in the House of Commons. When Sir Patrick Duncan refused a dissolution to his Prime Minister in South Africa in 1939, all these conditions were satisfied: when Lord Byng did the same in Canada in 1926, they appeared to be, but in the event the third proved illusory.\n\nI am, &c.,\n\nSENEX.\n\nApril 29.\n\n—\"Dissolution of Parliament: Factors in Crown's Choice\", \"The Times\", 2 May 1950, page 5\nThus, the letter asserted the constitutional power of the Sovereign to deny a dissolution, described the conditions for a valid exercise of that power, and referred to relevant precedents: occasions on which requests for parliamentary dissolution not exhibiting these conditions were refused by governors-general of British Commonwealth nations, acting on behalf of the monarch.\n\nEnglish historian Peter Hennessy stated in 1994 that the second of the three conditions had since been \"dropped from the canon\", being no longer included in internal Cabinet Office guidance.\n\n"}
{"id": "29295348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29295348", "title": "Line-item veto", "text": "Line-item veto\n\nThe line-item veto, or partial veto, is a special form of veto that authorizes a chief executive to reject particular provisions of a bill enacted by a legislature without vetoing the entire bill. Many countries have different standards for invoking the line-item veto, if it exists at all. Each country or state has its own particular requirement for overriding a line-item veto.\n\nThe President of Brazil has the power of the line-item veto over all legislation. Any provisions vetoed in such a manner are returned to the Brazilian congress, and can be overridden by a vote. An example of this came in August of 2012, when Dilma Rousseff vetoed portions of a new forestry law which had been criticized as potentially causing another wave of deforestation in the Amazon Rainforest.\n\nThe President of Panama has the ability to partially veto portions of a bill.\n\nDating to before the American Civil War, U.S. Presidents including Ulysses S. Grant and Ronald Reagan have sought line-item veto powers. It was not until the presidency of Bill Clinton that Congress passed such legislation. Intended to control \"pork barrel spending\", the Line Item Veto Act of 1996 was held to be unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in a 1998 ruling in \"Clinton v. City of New York\". The court affirmed a lower court decision that the line-item veto was equivalent to the unilateral amendment or repeal of only parts of statutes and therefore violated the Presentment Clause of the United States Constitution. Before the ruling, President Clinton applied the line-item veto to the federal budget 82 times.\n\nSince then, the prospect of granting the President of the United States a line-item veto has occasionally resurfaced in Congress, either through a constitutional amendment or a differently worded bill. Most recently, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill on February 8, 2012, that would have granted the President a limited line-item veto; however, the bill was not heard in the U.S. Senate. The most-commonly proposed form of the line-item veto is limited to partial vetoes of spending bills.\n\nWhile the Constitution of the Confederate States of America was largely based on the U.S. Constitution, one of the most notable departures was the granting of a line-item veto to its president. Jefferson Davis, however, never exercised the provision.\n\nForty-three states—all except Indiana, Maryland, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Rhode Island and Vermont—give their governors some form of line-item veto power. The Mayor of Washington, D.C. also has this power.\n\n"}
{"id": "35925808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35925808", "title": "List of criminal original habeas cases", "text": "List of criminal original habeas cases\n\nThis is a list of cases concerning criminal law heard by the Supreme Court of the United States in its original habeas jurisdiction granted by § 14 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 73, 81–82. That section provides:\n\n"}
{"id": "2343490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2343490", "title": "List of historical secret police organizations", "text": "List of historical secret police organizations\n\nThis is a list of historical secret police organizations. In most cases they are no longer current because the regime that ran them was overthrown or changed, or they changed their names. Few still exist under the same name as legitimate police forces.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40039196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40039196", "title": "List of sitting judges of the Supreme Court of India", "text": "List of sitting judges of the Supreme Court of India\n\nThis is a list of judges of the Supreme Court of India, the highest court in the Republic of India. The list is ordered according to seniority. There are currently 27 judges (including Chief Justice of India) against a maximum possible strength of 31. As per the Constitution of India, judges of the Supreme Court retire at age 65.\n\nJustice Ranjan Gogoi is the 46th Chief Justice of India. He was sworn in on 3 October 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "18661715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18661715", "title": "List of special law enforcement units", "text": "List of special law enforcement units\n\nThis is a list of active Police Tactical Units. \n\nPolice Tactical Units are part of a \"civilian\" or \"gendarmerie-type police force\" tasked with resolving high risk/critical incidents, including:\n\nIn the United States, most police tactical units are known by the generic term of Special Weapons And Tactics (SWAT) team. In Australia, police tactical units are formally known as a police tactical group. The European Union uses the term Special Intervention Unit to define national counter terrorist police tactical units. \n\nFor military special forces / special operations units see List of military special forces units.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPolice Tactical Group (PTG)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn an emergency situation, BRI-BAC and RAID can also form a task-force called FIPN (\"Force d'intervention de la Police nationale\"), under the command of the RAID commander.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Indonesian National Police (POLRI) \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNational Highways & Motorway Police\n\nAirports Security Force\n\n\nNational Police of Peru\n\n\n\n\nPublic Security Police\nNational Republican Guard\nPrison Guard\nMaritime Police\n\n\n\n\nMinistry of Justice\n\nFederal Penitentiary Service OSNs:\n\nCenter of Special Operations of the FSB\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe police departments of many counties and most major cities have special police units.\n\nDenver Police Department - Special Weapons And Tactics (SWAT) Team\n\nSpecial Tasks Patrol Police are the volunteer corps law enforcement units, part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "703188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=703188", "title": "List of vegans", "text": "List of vegans\n\nVeganism involves observing a vegan diet—which is a diet that includes no animals or animal products of any kind. It can extend to an entire lifestyle that precludes animal products from all aspects of life. Besides food, vegans may also choose to avoid clothes that utilise products such as leather and fur, cosmetics that have been tested on animals, and blood sports such as bullfighting and fox hunting. People who adopt veganism for ethical reasons will sometimes avoid or boycott all products or activities where their production or undertaking is perceived to exploit animals. All the people on this list are understood to adhere to a vegan diet.\n\n"}
{"id": "51485104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51485104", "title": "Mukunda Murari", "text": "Mukunda Murari\n\nMukunda Murari is a 2016 Indian Kannada-language devotional satirical comedy drama film directed by Nanda Kishore. The film features Upendra in an atheist role and Sudeep playing the role of Lord Krishna, teaming up for the first time in the lead roles. The film, a remake of Hindi film \"OMG - Oh My God!\" (2012), which in turn was based on a Gujarati stage play \"Kanji Virrudh Kanji\", is produced by M.N. Kumar along with B. Jayashree Devi. The rest of the cast includes Nikita Thukral, Ishita Vyas, Kaavya Shah, P. Ravishankar, Avinash among others. The film has cinematography by Sudhakar S. Raj. The soundtrack and film score are composed by Arjun Janya.\n\nThe film released in over 250 screens on 28 October 2016 and ran for 50 days in theatres.\n\nThe film follows the story of an atheist, Mukunda, who sues God after losing his shop in an earthquake. Religious organizations revolt against him and Murari visits him as his human guide.\n\nAtheist shopowner Mukunda (Upendra) talks about selling bulk statues of Hindu gods, and later tricks a devotee from Andhra Pradesh into buying a statue by claiming it's famous. The lack of respect, as his family sees it, makes his wife sad and she makes their son write the name of Rama for at least 10 pages.\n\nIn January 2016, it was reported that director Nanda Kishore was under the preparation to remake the hit Bollywood film \"OMG - Oh My God!\" retaining the basic plot and giving it a native touch. Initially the film was titled 'Kiccha!! Nee Begane Baaro', 'Brahma Vishnu', 'Sri Krishanrjuna Vijaya', 'Super Star Mattu Bigg Boss' and the makers roped in two of the biggest stars Upendra and Sudeep to reprise the roles played by Paresh Rawal and Akshay Kumar respectively in the original version. Later the title was altered as the makers sound the earlier one was quite a common name. To bring the uniqueness to the title, it was renamed to \"Mukunda Murari\".\n\nAfter having roped in Upendra and Sudeep to play the protagonist roles, the makers were on the search for the female lead and approached actress Prema hoping to bring her back to the screen after a long hiatus. Later Priyanka Upendra's name was also considered for this role. However, actress Nikita Thukral was finalized to play the wife role to Upendra. Further, actresses names such as Ramya Krishnan, Sadha and Nidhi Subbaiah were reported to play key supporting roles. Since none of these actresses were available, Ishita Vyas and Kaavya Shah were roped in to play those roles. The director went on to cast P. Ravi Shankar and Avinash to play other key roles.\n\nThe film released in over 250 screens on 28 October 2016.\n\nThe film was released on the occasion of Deepavali. By the end of its first week, \"Mukundra Murari\" grossed a little over Rs 10 crore. The film ran for 50 days in theaters.\n\nIIFA Utsavam :-\n\n64th Filmfare Awards South :-\n\n6th South Indian International Movie Awards :-\n\nArjun Janya has scored the soundtrack and score for the film. A total of four songs and one instrumental track were composed by him. The audio was officially released on 16 October 2016 through D Beats Music label.\n\n"}
{"id": "1306607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1306607", "title": "Odious debt", "text": "Odious debt\n\nIn international law, odious debt, also known as illegitimate debt, is a legal theory that says that the national debt incurred by a despotic regime should not be enforceable. Such debts are, thus, considered by this doctrine to be personal debts of the regime that incurred them and not debts of the state. In some respects, the concept is analogous to the invalidity of contracts signed under coercion.\n\nDespite antecedents dating back to the 1800s and support from diverse fields such as economics, philosophy, political science, history, and law, odious debt is not part of international law; in fact, \"[n]o national or international tribunal has ever cited Odious Debt as grounds for invalidating a sovereign obligation.\" Instead, international law holds governments strictly liable for all debt incurred by their predecessors.\n\nThe concept of odious debt was formalized in a 1927 treatise by Alexander Nahum Sack, a Russian émigré legal theorist. It was based on two 19th-century precedents—Mexico's repudiation of debts incurred by Emperor Maximilian, and the denial by the United States of Cuban liability for debts incurred by the Spanish colonial regime.\n\nSack wrote:\nWhen a despotic regime contracts a debt, not for the needs or in the interests of the state, but rather to strengthen itself, to suppress a popular insurrection, etc, this debt is odious for the people of the entire state. This debt does not bind the nation; it is a debt of the regime, a personal debt contracted by the ruler, and consequently it falls with the demise of the regime. The reason why these odious debts cannot attach to the territory of the state is that they do not fulfil one of the conditions determining the lawfulness of State debts, namely that State debts must be incurred, and the proceeds used, for the needs and in the interests of the State. Odious debts, contracted and utilised for purposes which, to the lenders' knowledge, are contrary to the needs and the interests of the nation, are not binding on the nation – when it succeeds in overthrowing the government that contracted them – unless the debt is within the limits of real advantages that these debts might have afforded. The lenders have committed a hostile act against the people, they cannot expect a nation which has freed itself of a despotic regime to assume these odious debts, which are the personal debts of the ruler.\nSack theorized that such debts are not enforceable when (1) the lender should have known that (2) the debt was incurred without the consent and (3) without benefit to the populace. There are many examples of similar debt repudiation. Chief Justice William Howard Taft, acting as an arbiter, used the doctrine to find that Costa Rica did not have to pay the United Kingdom debts incurred by the Federico Tinoco Granados regime.\n\nPatricia Adams, executive director of Probe International, a Canadian environmental and public policy advocacy organization and author of \"Odious Debts: Loose Lending, Corruption, and the Third World's Environmental Legacy\", stated: \"by giving creditors an incentive to lend only for purposes that are transparent and of public benefit, future tyrants will lose their ability to finance their armies, and thus the war on terror and the cause of world peace will be better served.\" In a Cato Institute policy analysis, Adams suggested that debts incurred by Iraq during Saddam Hussein's reign were odious because the money was spent on weapons, instruments of repression, and palaces.\n\nA 2002 article by economists Seema Jayachandran and Michael Kremer renewed interest in this topic. They propose that the idea can be used to create a new type of economic sanction to block further borrowing by dictators. Jayachandran proposed new recommendations in November 2010 at the 10th anniversary of the Jubilee movement at the Center for Global Development in Washington, D.C. Subsequently, the loan sanctions model has been adapted by the Centre for Global Developments and has been the base for a number of further suggestions. Some think the doctrine could aid international development. Others think that the doctrine should allow even more kinds of debt to be canceled.\n\nIn December 2008, Ecuadorian President Rafael Correa attempted to default on Ecuador's national debt, calling it illegitimate odious debt, because it was contracted by corrupt and despotic prior regimes. He succeeded in reducing the price of the debt letters before continuing paying the debt.\n\nAfter the overthrow of Haiti's Jean-Claude Duvalier in 1986, there were calls to cancel Haiti's debt owed to multilateral institutions, calling it unjust odious debt, and Haiti could better use the funds for education, health care, and basic infrastructure. As of February 2008, the Haiti Debt Cancellation Resolution had 66 co-sponsors in the U.S. House of Representatives. Several organizations in the United States issued action alerts around the Haiti Debt Cancellation Resolution, and a Congressional letter to the U.S. Treasury, including Jubilee USA, the Institute for Justice & Democracy in Haiti and Pax Christi USA.\n\n"}
{"id": "433280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433280", "title": "Paleolibertarianism", "text": "Paleolibertarianism\n\nPaleolibertarianism is a variety of libertarianism developed by anarcho-capitalist theorists Murray Rothbard and Llewellyn Rockwell that combines conservative cultural values and social philosophy with a libertarian opposition to government intervention.\n\nAccording to Rockwell, the paleolibertarian movement hearkens back to such thinkers as \"Ludwig von Mises, Albert Jay Nock, Garet Garrett, and the entire interwar Old Right that opposed the New Deal and favored the Old Republic\" and distinguished themselves from \"neo-libertarians\" and from \"Beltway Libertarianism, Left-Libertarianism, and Lifestyle Libertarianism\". (Beltway libertarianism is a pejorative term used by hardline libertarians to describe libertarians who have gained traction in the Beltway, i.e. Washington, D.C.) According to Rockwell, paleolibertarianism \"made its peace with religion as the bedrock of liberty, property, and the natural order\".\n\nPaleolibertarianism developed in opposition to the social progressivism of mainstream libertarianism. In his essay \"The Case for Paleo-Libertarianism\", Rockwell charged mainstream libertarians with \"hatred of Western culture\". He argued that \"pornographic photography, 'free'-thinking, chaotic painting, atonal music, deconstructionist literature, Bauhaus architecture, and modernist films have nothing in common with the libertarian political agenda – no matter how much individual libertarians may revel in them\". Of paleolibertarians, he wrote \"we obey, and we ought to obey, traditions of manners and taste\". After explaining why cultural conservatives could make a better argument for liberty to the middle classes, Rockwell predicted \"in the new movement, libertarians who personify the present corruption will sink to their natural level, as will the Libertarian Party, which has been their diabolic pulpit\".\n\nIn the essay \"Right-Wing Populism: A Strategy for the Paleo Movement\", Rothbard reflected on the ability of paleolibertarians to engage in an \"outreach to rednecks\" founded on social conservatism and radical libertarianism. He cited former Ku Klux Klan Grand Wizard David Duke and former U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy as models for the new movement.\n\nIn the 1990s, a \"paleoconservative-paleolibertarian alliance was forged\", centred on the John Randolph Club founded by Traditionalist Catholic Thomas Fleming. Rockwell and Rothbard supported paleoconservative Republican candidate Pat Buchanan in the 1992 U.S. presidential election, and described Buchanan as the political leader of the \"paleo\" movement. In 1992, Rothbard declared that \"with Pat Buchanan as our leader, we shall break the clock of social democracy\".\n\nThree years later, he said Buchanan developed too much faith in economic planning and centralized state power, which eventually led paleolibertarians to withdraw their support for Buchanan. In addition to Buchanan's \"economic nationalism\", Paul Gottfried later complained of a lack of funding, infighting, media hostility or blackout, and vilification as \"racists\" and \"anti-Semites\".\n\nRothbard died in 1995, while in 2007 Rockwell stated he no longer considered himself a \"paleolibertarian\" and was \"happy with the term libertarian\".\n\nPolitical scientist and lesbian feminist activist Jean Hardisty describes paleolibertarianism as entailing \"explicit racism, anti-Semitism, and sexism\". She notes Rothbard's praise of \"The Bell Curve\", a controversial work which presents the intelligence of black people as statistically inferior to other races, and the \"Rothbard-Rockwell Report's\" publishing of an article, written by Sam Francis, which asserted that \"of the two major races in the United States today, only one possesses the capacity to create and sustain\" suitable levels of civilization.\n\nThe libertarian publication \"Reason\" asserted that, \"a half-dozen longtime libertarian activists—including some still close to Ron Paul—all named the same man as Paul's chief ghostwriter: Ludwig von Mises Institute founder Llewellyn Rockwell, Jr.\" Rockwell denied it.\n\nIn 2012, former \"National Review\" writer John Derbyshire argued that \"since Lew Rockwell joined La Raza\" (referring to a LewRockwell.com's article with a soft open-borders advocacy) Hans-Hermann Hoppe was the last real paleolibertarian standing. Yet paleolibertarianism had hardly disappeared from America, with Karen De Coster and Justin Raimondo both continuing to use the term to describe themselves both during and after Ron Paul's presidential campaigns.\n\nIn a move similar to his and Rothbard's support for Pat Buchanan, Lew Rockwell has been sympathetic to celebrity real estate mogul Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign, particularly for his stance on Mexican immigration, along with Justin Raimondo, who voted for Trump on the basis of his foreign policy. Austrian School anarcho-capitalist economist Walter Block, in a 2016 preelection debate with \"Reason.com\" editor Nick Gillespie, advised libertarians living in battleground states to support Trump rather than cast their votes for Libertarian Party nominee Gary Johnson, citing critical foreign policy differences between the Republican and Democratic frontrunners.\n\nJeff Deist, President of the Ludwig von Mises Institute, a right-libertarian think tank for promoting Rothbardian anarcho-capitalism and the Austrian School of economics, said of the Alt-right that he found their writings \"interesting...and somewhat refreshing\". In 2017, Deist concluded a speech at the Mises Institute titled 'For a New Libertarian' with the words, \"In other words, blood and soil and God and nation still matter to people. Libertarians ignore this at the risk of irrelevance.\" This led to criticism from 'Bleeding Heart Libertarian' Steve Horwitz. Horwitz argued that libertarianism was not about family, religion, culture, and civil society, but instead \"liberal tolerance, universalism, and cosmopolitanism, putting the freedom and harmony of all people ahead of the supposed interests of any parochial sub-group, and especially ones defined by the artificial boundaries of nation-states and their subsets.\"\n\nPopular political and cultural blog \"The Right Stuff\" also exhibits features of paleolibertarianism. One post has criticised the mainstream right in the following terms, \"While they lost or ignore topics like race, nativism and the culture war, they have an obsession with neoliberal economics and neocon geopolitics.\" They have also been largely supportive of Rockwell, yet have criticised his \"move away from inflammatory newsletters\".\n\nControversial voluntaryist blogger and podcaster Stefan Molyneux circa 2014 started to become more culturally conservative than he had been previously. He has released podcasts of his \"Freedomain Radio\" show addressing topics such as Western culture, immigration, and group differences in cognitive ability. He, like Rockwell, has supported Donald Trump for the presidency of the United States.\n\nProperty and Freedom Society member Christian Robitaille has argued for an alliance of libertarians and traditionalists in Quebec.\n\nSince late 2013, High Tory organisation the Traditional Britain Group has been influenced by paleolibertarian ideas. In March 2014, it hosted a seminar including a track led by Dr Andrew Linley, 'Politics: destroyer of natural order'. The Vice President of the Traditional Britain Group, Professor John Kersey, describes himself as a 'radical traditionalist and paleolibertarian'. In October 2014, former UKIP MEP and Mises UK President Godfrey Bloom gave a speech to the annual conference of Traditional Britain entitled \"Why Traditionalism and Libertarianism are Not Incompatible\".\n\nThe former Director of the Libertarian Alliance, Sean Gabb, is a close friend of Hans-Hermann Hoppe, attending his Property and Freedom Society conferences every year in Bodrum. Gabb is a conservative in some respects and a critic of mass-immigration. Gabb has addressed Traditional Britain Group conferences in efforts at classical liberal outreach to traditionalists. Gabb's successor, Keir Martland, has written favourably about the prospects for a new \"paleo-alliance\", arguing that \"a conservative society cannot exist under an oppressive state just as much as a libertarian society cannot exist in a cultural and moral vacuum\". In an essay 'On Left and Right, Libertarianism, and The Donald', Martland, like Jeff Deist, is sympathetic to the nationalism of Donald Trump: \"When compared with rule by a socialist mob or rule by a hostile oligarchy of globalists, neither giving a damn about the Nation but only about plunder, nationalism comes off comparatively very well indeed.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19377020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19377020", "title": "Pat Lauderdale", "text": "Pat Lauderdale\n\nPat Lee Lauderdale (born Hobart, Oklahoma, U.S.A. October 19, 1944) is an American professor in the School of Justice and Social Inquiry at Arizona State University. He received his doctorate in the sociology of law from Stanford University. In 2008, he was appointed a visiting scholar at the Center for Comparative Studies in Race and Ethnicity at Stanford University. His teaching and research interests include indigenous jurisprudence, racialization, diversity, global indigenous struggles, law and the social science, and international terrorism. In the 1980s he helped create the Herbert Blumer Institute in Costa Rica with the goal of discovering and describing alternatives to violence and criminal law. He also is known internationally for his research on the relationship between social deviance, law and diversity, and is a former editor of the \"International Studies Quarterly\".\n\nHis book \"Law and Society\" (with James Inverarity and Barry Feld) has been translated into Japanese. His related research has been published in Spanish, German, and Italian (including the Calabrian dialect).\n\nHe is the former Director of the University-wide Ph.D./J.D. program in Justice Studies, Law, and the Social Sciences. Before coming to ASU in 1981, Dr. Lauderdale was an Associate Professor of Sociology and Law at the University of Minnesota. He had been a Visiting Scholar at the University of California, Santa Cruz. He has received Fulbright Research Fellowships to Costa Rica and Austria. He also has been a Visiting Scholar and Professor at the University of Lecci, Italy, the University of Austria, and Stanford University. In 2007, he received an invitation to be a Fulbright Senior Specialist for a research project on \"Indigenous peoples, minorities and globalization,\" Department of Sociology and UNISA Press, University of South Africa. He was a National President of Phi Theta Kappa Honorary Society and a Woodrow Wilson Scholar.\n\nOliverio, Annamarie and Pat Lauderdale, editors\n2006. Terrorism: A New Testament. London: Sage UK and de Sitter\n\nInverarity, James and Pat Lauderdale\nForthcoming, Law, Justice and Society (revised version of Law and Society). New York: General Hall.\n\nZegeye, Abebe, Richard Harris and Pat Lauderdale, editors\n2005. Globalization and Post-Apartheid South Africa. Willowdale, Canada: de Sitter Publications.\n\nLauderdale, Pat, editor\n2003. A Political Analysis of Deviance, New Edition. Toronto, Canada: de Sitter Publications.\n\nToggia, Pietro, Pat Lauderdale and Abebe Zegeye, editors\n2000. Terror and Crisis in the Horn of Africa: Autopsy of Democracy, Human Rights, and Freedom. London: Ashgate.\n\nLauderdale, Pat and Randall Amster, Special Issue Editors\n1997. Lives in the Balance: Perspectives on Global Injustice and Inequality. Leiden, the Netherlands: E. J. Brill.\n\nLauderdale, Pat and Michael Cruit\n1993. The Struggle for Control: A Study of Law, Disputes and Deviance. New York: SUNY Press.\n\nAltheide, David et al.\n1990. School of Justice Studies, Lauderdale, Pat, co-editor New Directions in the Study of Justice, Law and Social Control. New York: Plenum.\n\nInverarity, James, Pat Lauderdale and Barry Feld\n1983. Law and Society. Boston, Mass.: Little, Brown and Company.\n\n1994-95. Japanese translated version (Law & Society by Setsuo Miyazawa), Rokko, Kobe, Japan.\n\nLauderdale, Pat, editor\n1980. A Political Analysis of Deviance. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "1253754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1253754", "title": "Paweł Piskorski", "text": "Paweł Piskorski\n\nPaweł Bartłomiej Piskorski (born February 25, 1968 in Warsaw) is a former Polish politician.\n\nHe was Mayor of Warsaw from 30 March 1999 to 14 January 2002. In 1997 he was elected to the Sejm from the Freedom Union electoral list, and in 2001, after participating in a secession from that party, he successfully ran under the Civic Platform banner. In 2004 he was the Secretary General of Civic Platform. He has been elected Member of the European Parliament in 2004. April 26, 2006 excluded from the Civic Platform. Since February 2009 he has been the chairman of the Democratic Party.\n\nIn April 2006 Polish newspaper \"Dziennik\" informed about the purchased transaction performed in 2005 by Pawel Piskorski with his wife of more than 320 hectares of land for afforestation. The total cost of the purchase amounted to 1.25 million zł. According to the journalist of this newspaper, this amount exceeded the value of assets declared by an MEP in a financial statement for that year. Pawel Piskorski had explained that the money came from the sale of housing, credit, savings and current income him and his wife. That declaration had not been officially challenged by any public authority. Nevertheless, Piskorski's reputation has been irrecoverably damaged. The day after the publication of the national board of the PO decided about his exclusion from the party, which was followed on May 17 be removal of all his ten collaborators, among others, Piotr Fogler. The official reason stated was damages to the image of the Civic Platform.\n\nIn January 2009 Piotr Piskorski joined the Democratic Party, thus becoming the only MEP of the party, as well as declaring his intention to run for the position of chairman. This position is obtained at an extraordinary congress Democratic Party, held on February 21 the same year. However, his nomination was followed by the publication of his statements given to National Revenue Service agency to explain sources of his income. He tried to explain that he earned money by persistent winnings at the casino and by art trading. The public opinion has taken these clarifications with disbelief, which torpedoed election campaign of the Democratic Party.\n\nIn January 2010, introduced prosecutor charged him with the use of a forged document (contract with an antique dealer) in tax proceedings. Pawel Piskorski pleaded not guilty to committing this act.\n\nPiskorski is listed in the Panama Papers as a beneficiary or shareholder in an offshore company.\n\n"}
{"id": "12076593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12076593", "title": "Peremptory writ of mandamus", "text": "Peremptory writ of mandamus\n\nA peremptory writ of mandamus (also peremptory writ of mandate or simply peremptory mandamus) is an absolute and unqualified writ (a formal written command) to the defendant to do the act in question. It is issued when the defendant defaults on, or fails to show sufficient cause in answer to, an alternative mandamus. It is one of the three types of a mandamus.\n\nA more exact definition of a peremptory writ of mandate is \"a final order of a court to any governmental body, government official or a lower court to perform an act the court finds is an official duty required by law.\" \n\nA peremptory writ of mandate \"is distinguished from an alternative writ of mandate (mandamus), which orders the governmental agency, court or officials to obey the order or show cause at a hearing why it should not.\" \n\nThis may also be distinguished from a continuing mandamus, which asks for an officer or other authority to perform its tasks expeditiously for an unstipulated period of time for preventing miscarriage of justice.\n\n\"The usual practice is for anyone desiring such an order is to file a petition for the alternative writ. If the officials do not comply with the order and fail to convince the court that the writ of mandate should not be issued, then the court will issue the peremptory writ. In some emergency situations or when there is no conceivable reason for the government not to follow the law, then the peremptory writ will be issued after a notice of hearing without the alternative writ.\" \n\nIn some jurisdictions or court systems, all types or kinds of writs are bunched together under a single procedural framework. In New York civil practice, any writ is titled a proceeding against (a) body or officer. \n"}
{"id": "51036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51036", "title": "Prohibition of drugs", "text": "Prohibition of drugs\n\nThe prohibition of drugs through sumptuary legislation or religious law is a common means of attempting to prevent the recreational use of certain harmful drugs and other intoxicating substances.\n\nWhile some drugs are illegal to possess, many governments regulate the manufacture, distribution, marketing, sale and use of certain drugs, for instance through a prescription system. For example, amphetamines may be legal to possess if a doctor has prescribed them; otherwise, possession or sale of the drug is typically a criminal offence. Only certain drugs are banned with a \"blanket prohibition\" against all possession or use (e.g., LSD, a psychedelic that was once used medicinally). The most widely banned substances include psychoactive drugs, although blanket prohibition also extends to some steroids and other drugs. Many governments do not criminalize the possession of a limited quantity of certain drugs for personal use, while still prohibiting their sale or manufacture, or possession in large quantities. Some laws set a specific volume of a particular drug, above which is considered \"ipso jure\" to be evidence of trafficking or sale of the drug.\n\nDrug prohibition is responsible for enriching \"organised criminal networks\", according to some critics, and the hypothesis that the prohibition of drugs generates violence is consistent with research done over long time-series and cross-country facts.\n\nSome Islamic countries prohibit the use of alcohol (see list of countries with alcohol prohibition). Many governments levy a sin tax on alcohol and tobacco products, and restrict alcohol and tobacco from being sold or gifted to a minor. Other common restrictions include bans on outdoor drinking and indoor smoking. In the early 20th century, many countries had alcohol prohibition. These include the United States (1920–1933), Finland (1919–1932), Norway (1916–1927), Canada (1901–1948), Iceland (1915–1922) and the Russian Empire/USSR (1914–1925).\n\n\"Drugs\", in the context of \"prohibition,\" are any of a number of psychoactive substances whose use a government or religious body seeks to control. What constitutes a \"drug\" varies by century and belief system. What is a psychoactive substance is relatively well known to modern science. Examples include a range from caffeine found in coffee, tea, and chocolate, nicotine in tobacco products; botanical extracts morphine and heroin, and synthetic compounds MDMA and Fentanyl. Almost without exception, these substances also have a medical use, in which case it is called a Pharmaceutical drug or just \"pharmaceutical.\" The use of medicine to save or extend life or to alleviate suffering is uncontroversial in most cultures. \"Prohibition\" applies to certain conditions of possession or use. \"Recreational use\" refers to the use of substances primarily for their psychoactive effect outside of a clinical situation or doctor's care.\n\nIn the twenty-first century, caffeine has pharmaceutical uses. Caffeine is used to treat bronchopulmonary dysplasia. In most cultures, caffeine in the form of coffee or tea is unregulated. Over 2.25 billion cups of coffee are consumed in the world every day. Some religions, including The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, prohibit coffee. They believe that it is both physically and spiritually unhealthy to consume coffee.\n\nA government's interest to control a drug may be based on its perceived negative effects on its users, or it may simply have a revenue interest. Great Britain prohibited the possession of untaxed tea with the imposition of the Tea Act of 1773. In this case, as in many others, it is not substance that is prohibited, but the conditions under which it is possessed or consumed. Those conditions include matters of intent, which makes the enforcement of laws difficult. In Colorado possession of \"blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices\" is illegal if there was \"intent\" to use them with drugs.\n\nMany drugs, beyond their pharmaceutical and recreational uses have industrial uses. Nitrous oxide, or \"laughing gas\" is a dental anaesthetic, also used to prepared whipped cream, fuel rocket engines, and enhance the performance of race cars.\n\nThe cultivation, use, and trade of psychoactive and other drugs has occurred since ancient times. Concurrently, authorities have often restricted drug possession and trade for a variety of political and religious reasons. In the 20th century, the United States led a major renewed surge in drug prohibition called the \"War on Drugs\". Today's War on Drugs is particularly motivated by the desire to prevent drug use, which is perceived as detrimental to society.\n\nThe prohibition on alcohol under Islamic \"Sharia\" law, which is usually attributed to passages in the \"Qur'an\", dates back to the 7th century. Although Islamic law is often interpreted as prohibiting all intoxicants (not only alcohol), the ancient practice of hashish smoking has continued throughout the history of Islam, against varying degrees of resistance. A major campaign against hashish-eating Sufis was conducted in Egypt in the 11th and 12th centuries resulting among other things in the burning of fields of cannabis.\n\nThough the prohibition of illegal drugs was established under Sharia law, particularly against the use of hashish as a recreational drug, classical jurists of medieval Islamic jurisprudence accepted the use of hashish for medicinal and therapeutic purposes, and agreed that its \"medical use, even if it leads to mental derangement, should remain exempt [from punishment]\". In the 14th century, the Islamic scholar Az-Zarkashi spoke of \"the permissibility of its use for medical purposes if it is established that it is beneficial.\"\nIn the Ottoman Empire, Murad IV attempted to prohibit coffee drinking to Muslims as \"haraam\", arguing that it was an intoxicant, but this ruling was overturned soon after his death in 1640. The introduction of coffee in Europe from Muslim Turkey prompted calls for it to be banned as the devil's work, although Pope Clement VIII sanctioned its use in 1600, declaring that it was \"so delicious that it would be a pity to let the infidels have exclusive use of it.\" Bach's Coffee Cantata, from the 1730s, presents vigorous debate between a girl and her father over her desire to consume coffee. The early association between coffeehouses and seditious political activities in England, led to the banning of such establishments in the mid-17th century.\n\nA number of Asian rulers had similarly enacted early prohibitions, many of which were later forcefully overturned by Western colonial powers during the 18th and 19th centuries. In 1360, for example, King Ramathibodi I, of Ayutthaya Kingdom ( now Thailand ), prohibited opium consumption and trade. The prohibition lasted nearly 500 years until 1851, when King Rama IV allowed Chinese migrants to consume opium. While the Konbaung Dynasty prohibited all intoxicants and stimulants during the reign of King Bodawpaya (1781–1819). As the British colonized parts of Burma from 1852 they overturned local prohibitions and established opium monopolies selling Indian produced opium.\n\nIn late Qing Imperial China, opium imported by the British East India Company was consumed by all social classes in Southern China. Between 1821 and 1837, imports of the drug increased fivefold. The drain of silver to India and widespread social problems that resulted from this consumption prompted the Chinese government to attempt to end the trade. This effort was initially successful, with the destruction of all British opium stock in May 1839. However, to protect their commerce, the British declared war on China in the First Opium War. China was defeated and the war ended with the Treaty of Nanking, which protected foreign opium traders from Chinese law.\n\nThe first modern law in Europe for the regulating of drugs was the Pharmacy Act 1868 in the United Kingdom. There had been previous moves to establish the medical and pharmaceutical professions as separate, self-regulating bodies, but the General Medical Council, established in 1863, unsuccessfully attempted to assert control over drug distribution. The Act set controls on the distribution of poisons and drugs. Poisons could only be sold if the purchaser was known to the seller or to an intermediary known to both, and drugs, including opium and all preparations of opium or of poppies, had to be sold in containers with the seller's name and address.\nDespite the reservation of opium to professional control, general sales did continue to a limited extent, with mixtures with less than 1 per cent opium being unregulated.\n\nAfter the legislation passed, the death rate caused by opium immediately fell from 6.4 per million population in 1868 to 4.5 in 1869. Deaths among children under five dropped from 20.5 per million population between 1863 and 1867, to 12.7 per million in 1871, and further declined to between 6 and 7 per million in the 1880s.\n\nIn the United States, the first drug law was passed in San Francisco in 1875, banning the smoking of opium in opium dens. The reason cited was \"many women and young girls, as well as young men of respectable family, were being induced to visit the Chinese opium-smoking dens, where they were ruined morally and otherwise.\" This was followed by other laws throughout the country, and federal laws which barred Chinese people from trafficking in opium. Though the laws affected the use and distribution of opium by Chinese immigrants, no action was taken against the producers of such products as laudanum, a tincture of opium and alcohol, commonly taken as a panacea by white Americans. The distinction between its use by white Americans and Chinese immigrants was thus based on the form in which it was ingested: Chinese immigrants tended to smoke it, while it was often included in various kinds of generally liquid medicines often (but not exclusively) used by people of European descent. The laws targeted opium smoking, but not other methods of ingestion.\n\nBritain also passed the All-India Opium Act of 1878, which similarly formalized social distinctions, by limiting recreational opium sales to registered Indian opium-eaters and Chinese opium-smokers and prohibiting its sale to workers from Burma.\n\nFollowing passage of a regional law in 1895, Australia's Aboriginals Protection and Restriction of the Sale of Opium Act 1897 addressed opium addiction among Aborigines, though it soon became a general vehicle for depriving them of basic rights by administrative regulation. Opium sale was prohibited to the general population in 1905, and smoking and possession was prohibited in 1908.\n\nDespite these laws, the late 19th century saw an increase in opiate consumption. This was due to the prescribing and dispensing of legal opiates by physicians and pharmacists to relieve painful menstruation. It is estimated that between 150,000 and 200,000 opiate addicts lived in the United States at the time, and a majority of these addicts were women.\n\nSince Britain's victory over the Qing Empire in the First Opium War, British traders had sold large amounts of opium to the Chinese to balance their trade. Attitudes towards the morality of this business were slow to change, but in 1874 the Society for the Suppression of the Opium Trade was formed in England by Quakers led by the Rev. Frederick Storrs-Turner. By the 1890s, increasingly strident campaigns were waged by Protestant missionaries in China for its abolition. The first such society was established at the 1890 Shanghai Missionary Conference, where British and American representatives, including John Glasgow Kerr, Arthur E. Moule, Arthur Gostick Shorrock and Griffith John, agreed to establish the Permanent Committee for the Promotion of Anti-Opium Societies.\n\nDue to increasing pressure in the British parliament, the Liberal government under William Ewart Gladstone approved the appointment of a Royal Commission on Opium to India in 1893. The commission was tasked with ascertaining the impact of India's opium exports to the Far East, and to advise whether the trade should be ended and opium consumption itself banned in India or not. After an extended inquiry the Royal Commission rejected the claims made by the anti-opiumists in regard to the harm wrought to India by this traffic and the issue was buried for another 15 years.\n\nThe missionary organizations were outraged over the Royal Commission on Opium's conclusions and set up the Anti-Opium League in China; the league gathered data from every Western-trained medical doctor in China and published \"Opinions of Over 100 Physicians on the Use of Opium in China\". This was the first anti-drug campaign to be based on scientific principles, and it had a tremendous impact on the state of educated opinion in the West. In England, the home director of the China Inland Mission, Benjamin Broomhall, was an active opponent of the opium trade, writing two books to promote the banning of opium smoking: \"The Truth about Opium Smoking\" and \"The Chinese Opium Smoker\". In 1888, Broomhall formed and became secretary of the Christian Union for the Severance of the British Empire with the Opium Traffic and editor of its periodical, \"National Righteousness\". He lobbied the British Parliament to stop the opium trade. He and James Laidlaw Maxwell appealed to the London Missionary Conference of 1888 and the Edinburgh Missionary Conference of 1910 to condemn the continuation of the trade. As Broomhall lay dying, an article from \"The Times\" was read to him with the welcome news that an international agreement had been signed ensuring the end of the opium trade within two years.\nIn 1906, a motion to 'declare the opium trade \"morally indefensible\" and remove Government support for it', initially unsuccessfully proposed by Arthur Pease in 1891, was put before the House of Commons. This time the motion passed. The Chinese government banned opium soon afterwards.\n\nThese changing attitudes led to the founding of the International Opium Commission in 1909. An International Opium Convention was signed by 13 nations at The Hague on January 23, 1912 during the First International Opium Conference. This was the first international drug control treaty and it was registered in the \"League of Nations Treaty Series\" on January 23, 1922. The Convention provided that \"The contracting Powers shall use their best endeavours to control, or to cause to be controlled, all persons manufacturing, importing, selling, distributing, and exporting morphine, cocaine, and their respective salts, as well as the buildings in which these persons carry such an industry or trade.\"\n\nThe treaty became international law in 1919 when it was incorporated into the Treaty of Versailles. The role of the Commission was passed to the League of Nations, and all signatory nations agreed to prohibit the import, sale, distribution, export, and use of all narcotic drugs, except for medical and scientific purposes.\n\nIn the UK the Defence of the Realm Act 1914, passed at the onset of the First World War, gave the government wide-ranging powers to requisition property and to criminalise specific activities. A moral panic was whipped up by the press in 1916 over the alleged sale of drugs to the troops of the British Indian Army. With the temporary powers of DORA, the Army Council quickly banned the sale of all psychoactive drugs to troops, unless required for medical reasons. However, shifts in the public attitude towards drugs—they were beginning to be associated with prostitution, vice and immorality—led the government to pass further unprecedented laws, banning and criminalising the possession and dispensation of all narcotics, including opium and cocaine. After the war, this legislation was maintained and strengthened with the passing of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1920. Home Office control was extended to include raw opium, morphine, cocaine, ecogonine and heroin.\n\nHardening of Canadian attitudes toward Chinese opium users and fear of a spread of the drug into the white population led to the effective criminalization of opium for nonmedical use in Canada between 1908 and the mid-1920s.\n\nThe Mao Zedong government nearly eradicated both consumption and production of opium during the 1950s using social control and isolation. Ten million addicts were forced into compulsory treatment, dealers were executed, and opium-producing regions were planted with new crops. Remaining opium production shifted south of the Chinese border into the Golden Triangle region. The remnant opium trade primarily served Southeast Asia, but spread to American soldiers during the Vietnam War, with 20 percent of soldiers regarding themselves as addicted during the peak of the epidemic in 1971. In 2003, China was estimated to have four million regular drug users and one million registered drug addicts.\n\nIn the USA, the Harrison Act was passed in 1914, and required sellers of opiates and cocaine to get a license. While originally intended to regulate the trade, it soon became a prohibitive law, eventually becoming legal precedent that any prescription for a narcotic given by a physician or pharmacist – even in the course of medical treatment for addiction – constituted conspiracy to violate the Harrison Act. In 1919, the Supreme Court ruled in \"Doremus\" that the Harrison Act was constitutional and in \"Webb\" that physicians could not prescribe narcotics solely for maintenance. In \"Jin Fuey Moy v. United States\", the court upheld that it was a violation of the Harrison Act even if a physician provided prescription of a narcotic for an addict, and thus subject to criminal prosecution. This is also true of the later Marijuana Tax Act in 1937. Soon, however, licensing bodies did not issue licenses, effectively banning the drugs.\n\nThe American judicial system did not initially accept drug prohibition. Prosecutors argued that possessing drugs was a tax violation, as no legal licenses to sell drugs were in existence; hence, a person possessing drugs must have purchased them from an unlicensed source. After some wrangling, this was accepted as federal jurisdiction under the interstate commerce clause of the U.S. Constitution.\n\nThe prohibition of alcohol commenced in Finland in 1919 and in the United States in 1920. Because alcohol was the most popular recreational drug in these countries, reactions to its prohibition were far more negative than to the prohibition of other drugs, which were commonly associated with ethnic minorities, prostitution, and vice. Public pressure led to the repeal of alcohol prohibition in Finland in 1932, and in the United States in 1933. Residents of many provinces of Canada also experienced alcohol prohibition for similar periods in the first half of the 20th century.\n\nIn Sweden, a referendum in 1922 decided against an alcohol prohibition law (with 51% of the votes against and 49% for prohibition), but starting in 1914 (nationwide from 1917) and until 1955 Sweden employed an alcohol rationing system with personal liquor ration books (\"motbok\").\n\nIn response to rising drug use among young people and the counterculture movement, government efforts to enforce prohibition were strengthened in many countries from the 1960s onward. Support at an international level for the prohibition of psychoactive drug use became a consistent feature of United States policy during both Republican and Democratic administrations, to such an extent that US support for foreign governments has often been contingent on their adherence to US drug policy. Major milestones in this campaign include the introduction of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs in 1961, the Convention on Psychotropic Substances in 1971 and the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances in 1988. A few developing countries where consumption of the prohibited substances has enjoyed longstanding cultural support, long resisted such outside pressure to pass legislation adhering to these conventions. Nepal only did so in 1976.\nIn 1972, United States President Richard Nixon announced the commencement of the so-called \"War on Drugs.\" Later, President Reagan added the position of drug czar to the President's Executive Office. In 1973, New York introduced mandatory minimum sentences of 15 years to life imprisonment for possession of more than of a so-called hard drug, called the Rockefeller drug laws after New York Governor and later Vice President Nelson Rockefeller. Similar laws were introduced across the United States.\n\nCalifornia's broader 'three strikes and you're out' policy adopted in 1994 was the first mandatory sentencing policy to gain widespread publicity and was subsequently adopted in most United States jurisdictions. This policy mandates life imprisonment for a third criminal conviction of any felony offense. A similar 'three strikes' policy was introduced to the United Kingdom by the Conservative government in 1997. This legislation enacted a mandatory minimum sentence of seven years for those convicted for a third time of a drug trafficking offense involving a class A drug.\nThe terms relegalization, legalization, and decriminalization are used with very different meanings by different authors, something that can be confusing when the claims are not specified. Here are some variants:\n\nIn the 2010s, movements have grown around the world proposing the relegalization and decriminalization of drugs. For instance, there is a movement for cannabis legalization in Canada, as well as the Marijuana Party of Canada. Drug liberalization policies are often supported by proponents of liberalism and libertarianism on the grounds of individual freedom. There are also growing countermovements. Prohibition of drugs is supported by proponents of conservative values but also by many other types of NGO's that are not linked to conservative political parties. A growing number of NGO organizations in many countries have joined the international network World Federation Against Drugs. WFAD members support the United Nations narcotics conventions.\n\nIn 2002, five (former) police officers created Law Enforcement Against Prohibition, a NGO that has gained a lot of media attention, showing that support for a regulation of drug sales also comes from the \"other side\" of the drug war and that maintaining a global corruption pyramid for the tax-free Mafia monopoly isn't a good idea, compared to controlling access, age and quality. The former Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, the Drug Czar John P. Walters, has described the drug problem in the United States as a \"public health challenge\", and he has publicly eschewed the notion of a \"war on drugs.\" He has supported additional resources for substance abuse treatment and has touted random student drug testing as an effective prevention strategy. However, the actions of the Office of National Drug Control Policy continue to belie the rhetoric of a shift away from primarily enforcement-based responses to illegal drug use.\n\nOn February 22, 2008 the President of Honduras, Manuel Zelaya, called on the world to legalize drugs, in order, he said, to prevent the majority of violent murders occurring in Honduras. Honduras is used by cocaine smugglers as a transiting point between Colombia and the US. Honduras, with a population of 7 million, suffers an average of 8–10 murders a day, with an estimated 70% being a result of this international drug trade. The same problem is occurring in Guatemala, El Salvador, Costa Rica and Mexico, according to Zelaya. In January 2012 Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos made a plea to the United States and Europe to start a global debate about legalizing drugs. This call was echoed by the Guatemalan President Otto Pérez Molina, who announced his desire to legalize drugs, saying \"What I have done is put the issue back on the table.\"\n\nIn a report dealing with HIV in June 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO) of the UN called for the decriminalization of drugs particularly including injected ones. This conclusion put WHO at odds with broader long-standing UN policy favoring criminalization. Eight states of the United States (Alaska, California, Colorado, Maine, Massachusetts, Nevada, Oregon, and Washington), as well as the District of Columbia, have legalized the sale of marijuana for personal recreational use as of 2017, despite the fact that recreational use remains illegal under U.S. federal law. The conflict between state and federal law is, as of 2018, unresolved.\n\nSee also Drug prohibition law\n\nThe following individual drugs, listed under their respective family groups (e.g., barbiturates, benzodiazepines, opiates), are the most frequently sought after by drug users and as such are prohibited or otherwise heavily regulated for use in many countries:\n\nThe regulation of the above drugs varies in many countries. Alcohol possession and consumption by adults is today widely banned only in Islamic countries and certain states of India. The United States, Finland, and Canada banned alcohol in the early part of the 20th century; this was called Prohibition. Although alcohol prohibition was repealed in these countries at a national level, there are still parts of the United States that do not allow alcohol \"sales\", even though alcohol \"possession\" may be legal. Bhutan is the only country in the world where possession and use of tobacco is illegal. New Zealand has banned the importation of chewing tobacco as part of the Smoke-free Environments Act 1990. In some parts of the world, provisions are made for the use of traditional sacraments like ayahuasca, iboga, and peyote. In Gabon, Africa, iboga (tabernanthe iboga) has been declared a national treasure and is used in rites of the Bwiti religion. The active ingredient, ibogaine, is proposed as a treatment of opioid withdrawal and various substance use disorders.\n\nIn countries where alcohol and tobacco are legal, certain measures are frequently undertaken to discourage use of these drugs. For example, packages of alcohol and tobacco sometimes communicate warnings directed towards the consumer, communicating the potential risks of partaking in the use of the substance. These drugs also frequently have special \"sin taxes\" associated with the purchase thereof, in order to recoup the losses associated with public funding for the health problems the use causes in long-term users. Restrictions on advertising also exist in many countries, and often a state holds a monopoly on manufacture, distribution, marketing, and/or the sale of these drugs.\n\nIn the United States, there is considerable legal debate about the impact these laws have had on Americans' civil rights. Critics claim that the War on Drugs has lowered the evidentiary burden required for a legal search of a suspect's dwelling or vehicle, or to intercept a suspect's communications. However, many of the searches that result in drug arrests are often \"commissions\" to search a person or the person's property.\n\nPeople who consent to a search, knowing full well that they possess contraband, generally consent because they are ignorant of the fact that they have the right to decline permission to search. Under the laws of most U.S. states, police are not required to disclose to suspects that they have the right to decline a search. Even when a suspect does not give permission to search, police are often known to state in arrest affidavits and even provide sworn testimony that the suspect consented to the search, secure in the knowledge that a judge will normally weigh all questions of credibility in favour of law enforcement and against the accused.\n\nSimilarly, in cases where the accused does not consent to a search, courts have generally held police to a very low standard of reasonable suspicion and/or probable cause in drug cases, essentially endorsing \"fishing expeditions\" by stop-and-search highway interdiction police.\n\nThe sentencing statutes in the United States Code that cover controlled substances are notoriously intricate. For example, a first-time offender convicted in a single proceeding for selling marijuana three times, and found to have carried a gun on him all three times (even if it were not used) is subject to a minimum sentence of 55 years in federal prison.\n\nDrug sentencing guidelines under state law in America are generally much less harsh than the federal sentencing guidelines, although great irregularities exist. The vast majority of drug felonies and almost all drug misdemeanors in the United States are prosecuted at the state level. The federal government tends to prosecute only drug trafficking cases involving large amounts of drugs, or cases which have been referred to federal prosecutors by local district attorneys seeking the harsher sentences provided under the federal sentencing guidelines. In rare instances, some defendants are prosecuted both federally and by the state for the same drug trafficking conduct. The United States Supreme Court has ruled that a defendant does not face double jeopardy if he is convicted and sentenced by both the state and federal government for the same underlying criminal conduct.\n\nSometimes, crimes not directly related to drug use and sale. For example, the United States recently brought charges against club owners for maintaining a place of business where a) ecstasy is known to be frequently consumed; b) paraphernalia associated with the use of ecstasy is sold and/or widely tolerated (such as glow sticks and pacifiers); and c) \"chill-out rooms\" are created, where ecstasy users can cool down (ecstasy users in club settings tend to dance for extended periods of time, raising the user's blood temperature). These are being challenged in court by organizations such as the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and Drug Policy Alliance.\n\nDrug prohibition has created several legal dilemmas. For example, many countries allow the use of undercover law enforcement officers solely or primarily for the enforcement of laws against use of certain drugs. Many of these officers are allegedly allowed to commit crimes if it is necessary to maintain the secrecy of the investigation, or in order to collect adequate evidence for a conviction. Some people have criticized this practice as failing to ensure equality under the law because it grants police officers the right to commit crimes that no other citizen could commit without potential consequences.\n\nAnother legal dilemma is the creation in several countries of a legal loopholes allowing for arbitrary arrest and prosecution. This is the result of several drugs such as Dimethyltryptamine, GHB, and morphine being illegal to possess but also inherently present in all humans as a result of endogenous synthesis. Since some jurisdictions classify possession of drugs to include having the drug present in the blood in any concentration, all residents of such countries are technically in possession of multiple illegal drugs at all times. \n\nThe War on Drugs has stimulated the creation of international law enforcement agencies (such as Interpol), mostly in Western countries. This has occurred because a large volume of illicit drugs come from Third-World countries.\n\nIn \"Hallucinations: Behavior, Experience, and Theory (1975)\", senior US government researchers Louis Jolyon West and Ronald K. Siegel explain how drug prohibition can be used for selective social control:\n\nAcademic Noam Chomsky argues that drug laws are currently, and have historically, been used by the state to oppress sections of society it opposes:\n\nIn 2013 the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction reported that there are 280 new legal drugs, known as legal highs, available in Europe. One of the best known, mephedrone, was banned in the United Kingdom in 2010. On November 24, 2010, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration announced it would use emergency powers to ban many synthetic cannabinoids within a month. An estimated 73 new psychoactive synthetic drugs appeared on the UK market in 2012. The response of the Home Office has been to create a temporary class drug order which bans the manufacture, import and supply but not the possession of named substances.\n\nDrug possession is the crime of having one or more illegal drugs in one's possession, either for personal use, distribution, sale or otherwise. Illegal drugs fall into different categories and sentences vary depending on the amount, type of drug, circumstances, and jurisdiction. In the U.S., the penalty for illegal drug possession and sale can vary from a small fine to a prison sentence. In some states, marijuana possession is considered to be a petty offense, with the penalty being comparable to that of a speeding violation. In some municipalities, possessing a small quantity of marijuana in one's own home is not punishable at all. Generally, however, drug possession is an arrestable offense, although first-time offenders rarely serve jail time. Federal law makes even possession of \"soft drugs\", such as cannabis, illegal, though some local governments have laws contradicting federal laws.\n\nIn the U.S., the War on Drugs is thought to be contributing to a prison overcrowding problem. In 1996, 59.6% of prisoners were drug-related criminals. The U.S. population grew by about +25% from 1980 to 2000. In that same 20 year time period, the U.S. prison population tripled, making the U.S. the world leader in both percentage and absolute number of citizens incarcerated. The United States has 5% of the world's population, but 25% of the prisoners.\n\nAbout 90% of United States prisoners are incarcerated in state jails. In 2016, about 200,000, under 16%, of the 1.3 million people in these state jails, were serving time for drug offenses. 700,000 were incarcerated for violent offenses.\n\nA Nielsen poll in 2012 found that only 27% of voters favoured decriminalisation. Australia has steep penalties for growing and using drugs even for personal use. with Western Australia having the toughest laws. There is an associated anti-drug culture amongst a significant number of Australians. Law enforcement targets drugs, particularly in the party scene. In 2012, crime statistics in Victoria revealed that police were increasingly arresting users rather than dealers, and the Liberal government banned the sale of bongs that year.\n\nIn the Netherlands, cannabis and other \"soft\" drugs are partly decriminalised in small quantities. The Dutch government treats the problem as more of a public health issue than a criminal issue. Contrary to popular belief, cannabis is still illegal, mostly to satisfy the country's agreements with the United Nations. Coffee shops that sell cannabis to people 18 or above are tolerated in some cities, and pay taxes like any other business for their cannabis and hashish sales, although distribution is a grey area that the authorities would rather not go into as it is not decriminalised. Many \"coffee shops\" are found in Amsterdam and cater mainly to the large tourist trade; the local consumption rate is far lower than in the US. Netherlands has the highest antidrug related public expenditure per capita of all countries in EU (139 EUR per capita, 2004). \n\nSimilarly to the rest of the European Union member states and American democracies, controlled drugs are illegal in the Netherlands. Nevertheless, illegal drugs are consumed worldwide, causing concern in the international community. According to the United Nations Drug Control Programme, results in the 2001 World Drug Report estimate \"that the extent of drug abuse in the world involves about 180 million people, which represents 3% of the global population. The majority of drug users (80%) used cannabis, followed by amphetamine-type stimulants such as methamphetamine, amphetamine and substances of the ecstasy group (16%), cocaine (8%), heroin (5%) and other opiates (2%)\".\n\nThe administrative bodies responsible for enforcing the drug policies include the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, and the Ministry of Finance. Local authorities also shape local policy, within the national framework. The prohibition policy is heavily influenced by the international community (through the United Nations), especially the neighboring states of France and Germany, which pressure the kingdom to be more strict, for they are directly affected through the illegal trafficking of narcotics coming from the Netherlands.\n\nLegally, possession, manufacturing, trafficking, importation and exportation are forbidden. Nonetheless, it is not an offense to use drugs (Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 2003). There are different penalties involved when breaking the law, which may include a monetary fine, imprisonment, or both. To apply the law, the government differentiates between \"soft\" and \"hard\" drugs. Soft drugs are considered to produce less harm to both the individual and society, these being used mainly for folk medicine and recreational purposes. This category encompasses cannabis (\"nederwiet\"), hashish and some fungi. Hard drugs are considered to cause considerable personal harm through addiction and physical detriment, as well as nuisance to society, by increasing crime and deteriorating families. Cocaine, heroin, etc. belong to this category.\n\nAlong with these two categories, there is a pyramid of priority when it comes to prosecution by law enforcement agencies.\n\nThere are varying rules within these categories, for example the amount possessed, the role played in the transaction and the intent of the goods. Regarding coffee shops, the line between law and practice thins. A coffee shop is a heavily controlled business establishment where individuals can purchase a personal dose of soft drugs in the form of joints, pastry, drinks and packages. In theory, these shops must abide by governmental and local regulations, as well as meet the AHOJ-G criteria, an acronym for: No Advertising, Hard drugs, Nuisance of any kind, Jongeren (minors under 18), and a limit of five grams per transaction. Additionally, the maximum stock at any time is five hundred grams. Local governments may impose additional rules, such as closing times, zoning (coffee shops may not be close to schools), and parking restrictions. The rationale behind coffee shops is to keep citizens away from the hard drugs scene, bringing them to a safe, social, and regulated environment.\n\nWhen analysing the Dutch model, both disadvantages and advantages can be drawn when comparing the results with other countries. On a moral argument, tolerating soft drugs can be seen as the defeat of the government against hedonism. Additionally, decades of growing and perfecting cannabis and hashish has resulted in increased levels of the main active hallucinogenic constituent tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), as levels have doubled, making the derived products more powerful, and therefore requiring less to achieve the desired effect. The coffee shop will lose its license if it caught selling to minors. Though there was a slight increase of use at the beginning, the rates balanced out some years later. The presence of coffee shops does not translate in public urge for experimentation. In fact, most people that did not consume drugs before the enhancement of the policy continue not to use them.\n\nWhen compared to other countries, Dutch drug consumption falls in the European average at six per cent regular use (twenty-one per cent at some point in life) and considerably lower than the Anglo-Saxon countries headed by the United States with an eight per cent recurring use (thirty-four at some point in life). Experts have come to the conclusion that the policies applied do not play a striking role in these statistics, though there is debate over this issue (CEDRO, 2004). While there has been talk for over a decade about preventing foreigners from entering Dutch cannabis coffeeshops by requiring customers to possess a 'weedpass', this legislation has not been enacted, so Dutch coffeeshops continue to sell cannabis openly to both locals and foreigners. However a small number of southern municipalities (including Roosendaal and Maastricht) in the Netherlands now require customers to carry identification proving that they are resident in the Netherlands.\n\nIndonesia carries a maximum penalty of death for drug dealing, and a maximum of 15 years prison for drug use. In 2004, Australian citizen Schappelle Corby was convicted of smuggling 4.4 kilograms of cannabis into Bali, a crime that carried a maximum penalty of death. Her trial reached the verdict of guilty with a punishment of 20 years imprisonment. Corby claimed to be an unwitting drug mule. Australian citizens known as the \"Bali Nine\" were caught smuggling heroin. Two of the nine, Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran, were executed April 29, 2015 along with six other foreign nationals. In August 2005, Australian model Michelle Leslie was arrested with two ecstasy pills. She pleaded guilty to possession and in November 2005 was sentenced to 3 months imprisonment, which she was deemed to have already served, and was released from prison immediately upon her admission of guilt on the charge of possession.\n\nAt the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, Indonesia, along with India, Turkey, Pakistan and some South American countries opposed the criminalisation of drugs.\n\nTaiwan treats smoking tobacco and wine as legal entertainment drug. The Department of Health is in charge of drug prohibition.\n\nBecause the possession of drugs is called a \"victimless crime\" by some analysts, as it can be committed in privacy, the enforcement of prohibitionist laws requires methods of law enforcement to inspect private property. In societies with strong property laws or individual rights, this may present a risk for conflicts or violations of rights. Disrupting the market relies on eradication, interdiction and domestic law enforcement efforts. Through cooperation with governments such as those of Colombia, Mexico and Afghanistan, coca (the plant source for cocaine) and poppy (the plant source for opium and heroin) are eradicated by the United States and other allies such as the United Kingdom, so that the crops cannot be processed into narcotics. Eradication can be accomplished by aerial spraying or manual eradication. However, the eradication is only temporary as the harvest fields can usually be replanted after a certain amount of time.\n\nThe government of Colombian President Álvaro Uribe has resisted criticism of aerial spraying of coca and poppy and has seen major reductions in both crops according to the United Nations Office of Crime and Drugs (See also Plan Colombia). In 2003, over 1,300 square kilometers of mature coca were sprayed and eradicated in Colombia, where at the start of the year, approximately 1,450 square kilometers had been planted. This strategic accomplishment prevented the production over 500 tonnes of cocaine, sufficient to supply all the cocaine users in both US and Europe for one year. Further, it eliminated upward of $100 million of illicit income in Colombia. No effect on prices or availability in the marketplace has been noted, and the actual number of acres of coca planted seems to have actually increased, largely shifting to more remote areas or into neighboring countries. Aerial spraying also has the unintended consequence of destroying legitimate crop fields in the process.\n\nInterdiction is carried out primarily by aerial and naval armed forces patrolling known trafficking zones. From South America to the United States most drugs traverse either the Caribbean Sea or the Eastern Pacific, usually in \"go-fast\" boats that carry drug cargos and engines and little else. Drugs have also been smuggled in makeshift submarines. In 2015, a submarine with 12,000 pounds of cocaine was seized by the US Coast Guard off of the coast of Central America. This was the largest US drug seizure to date.\n\nInvestigation on drug trafficking often begins with the recording of unusually frequent deaths by overdose, monitoring financial flows of suspected traffickers, or by finding concrete elements while inspecting for other purposes. For example, a person pulled over for traffic violations may have illicit drugs in his or her vehicle, thus leading to an arrest and/or investigation of the source of the materials. The United States federal government has placed a premium on disrupting the large drug trafficking organizations that move narcotics into and around the United States, while state and local law enforcement focus on disrupting street-level drug dealing gangs.\n\nPresent drug control efforts utilize several techniques in the attempt to achieve their goal of eliminating illegal drug use:\n\nOn February 11, 2009 a document called \"Drugs and democracy in Latin America: Towards a paradigm shift \" was signed by several Latin American political figures, intellectuals, writers and journalists as commissioners of the Latin American Initiative on Drugs and Democracy. The document questioned the war on drugs and points out its failures. It also indicates that prohibition has come with an extensive social cost, especially to the countries that take part in the production of illicit drugs. Although controversial, the document does not endorse either the production or consumption of drugs but recommends for both a new and an alternative approach. The document argues that drug production and consumption has become a social taboo that inhibits the public debate because of its relationship to crime and as consequence it confines consumers to a small circle where they become more vulnerable to the actions of organized crime. The authors also demand for a close review to the prohibitive strategies of the United States and the study of the advantages and limits of the damage reduction strategy followed by the European Union. The proposal uses three paradigms as an alternative:\nThe document favors the European policies towards drug consumption since according to the authors it is more humane and efficient. The signers of this document are: Fernando Henrique Cardoso, Ernesto Zedillo, César Gaviria, Paulo Coelho, Enrique Santos, Mario Vargas Llosa, Moisés Naím, Tomas Eloy Martinez\n\nIn a number of countries, though not the United States at present (2017), there are supervised injection sites, in which a nurse is present to ensure cleanliness and quickly treat overdoses. It is a form of harm reduction.\n\nTwo years later in mid-2011, the core of the Initiative and its commission were extended and endorsed in a report issued by the Global Commission on Drug Policy. Joining the three former presidents of Colombia, Brazil and Mexico and Nobel Prize for Literature winner Llosa on the Global Commission were former U.S. Secretary of State George P. Schultz and Federal Reserve chair Paul Volcker; Carlos Fuentes, Mexican writer and public intellectual; John C. Whitehead, formerly of Goldman Sachs; and Kofi Annan, former Secretary-General of the United Nations.\n\n\nUS specific:\n\n"}
{"id": "35458868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35458868", "title": "Raphael Sealey", "text": "Raphael Sealey\n\nRaphael Sealey (14 August 1927, Middlesbrough, England – 29 November 2013, Berkeley, California) was a classical scholar and ancient historian.\n\nSealey studied at University College, Oxford in England under George Cawkwell, receiving an M.A. from Oxford University in 1951.\n\nRaphael Sealey was Professor of History at the University of California at Berkeley in California, United States, from 1967 to 2000, specialising in Ancient Greek history and law. On retirement, he became an Emeritus Professor. Before coming to Berkeley, he had taught at the University College of North Wales, at Queen Mary College, University of London, and at the State University of New York at Buffalo.\n\nSealey's books include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4179803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4179803", "title": "Right of Association (Agriculture) Convention", "text": "Right of Association (Agriculture) Convention\n\nThe Convention concerning the Rights of Association and Combination of Agricultural Workers is an International Labour Organization Convention adopted in 1921. The convention secures the rights of \"association and combination\" of agricultural workers to the same extent as those rights are extended to industrial workers. As of July 2015, 123 states have ratified the convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "25931666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25931666", "title": "Scepticism in law", "text": "Scepticism in law\n\nScepticism in law is a school of jurisprudence that was a reaction against the idea of natural law, and a response to the 'formalism' of legal positivists. Legal scepticism is sometimes known as legal realism.\n\nAccording to Richard Posner, \"The skeptical vein in American thinking about law runs from Holmes to the legal realists to the critical legal studies movement, while behind Holmes stretches a European skeptical legal tradition that runs from Thrasymachus (in Plato's Republic) to Hobbes and Bentham and beyond\".\n\nScepticism is a philosophical approach that includes a scientific method and a rejection of unevidenced claims to certainty. Scepticism has been known in various degrees. Pyrrho was the first philosopher who developed it to a high degree. Greek Sophist were also sceptics. Protagoras was a famous Greek Sophist. Greek Sophists were also law teachers.\n\nWriting about the courts of Athenian democracy, Bertrand Russell states: \"In general, there were a large number of judges to hear each case. The plaintiff and defendant, or prosecutor and accused, appeared in person, not through professional lawyers. Naturally, success or failure depended largely on oratorical skill in appealing to popular prejudices. Although a man had to deliver his own speech, he could hire an expert to write a speech for him, or, as many preferred, he could pay for instruction in the arts required for success in the law courts. These arts the Sophists were supposed to teach\".\n\nStumpf writes about Sophists as, \"It was their skepticism and relativism that made them suspect. No one would have criticized them for training lawyers, as they did, to be able to argue either side of a case\" Philosophy, History & Problems, p. 30. American legal sceptics are influenced by 'pragmatism' of William James, Dr. John Dewey, and F.e.S. Schiller.\n\nBertrand Russell declares that William James's doctrine is \"an attempt to build a superstructure of belief upon a foundation of scepticism\". One of the three founders of pragmatism, Schiller, considered himself a disciple of Protagoras. See These are the reasons for the preference of some people for the word 'scepticism'.\n\nMickey Dias writes: \"a preliminary warning is needed against the tendency to imagine that there is anything like a 'school' of American realists. A difficulty in the way of a coherent presentation of their views is that there are varying versions of realism as well as changes of front; positions formerly defended with zest have since been forgotten or abandoned……. Judge Jerome Frank (1889–1957), a leading exponent preferred the phrases 'experimentalists' or 'constructive skeptics', He repudiated the charge that 'the realist school embraced fantastically inconsistent ideas' by pointing out that 'actually no such school existed'. The common bond is, in his words\n,'skepticism as to some of the conventional legal theories, a skepticism stimulated by a zeal to reform, in the interests of justice, some court-house ways. \",\nWith such zeal to reform, legal sceptics made a revolt against the formalism.\n\nLord Lloyd of Hamstead has described this revolt in a wider philosophical perspective as follows:\n\n\"In the nineteenth and at the beginning of the present century, laissez-faire was the dominant creed in America. This creed was associated, in the intellectual sphere, with a certain attachment to what has been called \"formalism\" in philosophy and the social sciences. This was marked by a reverence for the role of logic and mathematics and a priori reasoning as applied to philosophy, economics and jurisprudence, with but little urge to link these empirically to the facts of life. Yet empirical science and technology were increasing dominating American society and with this development arose and intellectual movement in favor of treating philosophy and the social sciences, and even logic itself, as empirical studies not rooted in abstract formalism. In America this movement was associated with such figures as William James and Dewey in philosophy and logic. Veblen in economics, Beard and Robinson in historical studies, and Mr. Justice Holmes in jurisprudence. It is important to note that this movement was especially hostile to the so-called British empirical school derived from Hume, and to which Jeremy Bentham, Austin and John Stuart Mill adhered. For while it is true that these thinkers were positivist and anti-metaphysical they were for the anti-formalists, not empirical enough, since they were associated with a priori reasoning not based on actual study of the facts, such as Mill's formal logic and his reliance on an abstract \"economic man,\" Bentham's hedonic calculus of pleasures and pains, and the analytical approach to jurisprudence derived from Austin. They were particularly critical of the ahistorical approach of the English utilitarians. Nor, unlike the sociologists of Pound persuasion, were they interested to borrow from Bentham such abstract analyses of society as his doctrine of conflicting to emphasise was the need to enlarge knowledge empirically, and to relate it to the solution of the practical problems of man in society at the present day., \n\nThe new movement in jurisprudence found philosophical support of 'Pragmatism'. The principal exponent of 'Pragmatism', William James, writes: \"A pragmatist turns away from abstraction and insufficiencies, from verbal solutions, from bad a priori reasons, from fixed principles, closed systems and pretended absolutes and origins. He turns towards completeness and adequacy, towards facts, towards actions, towards powers.,\n\nThis sceptical approach impressed Justice Holmes, who laid the foundation of healthy and constructive scepticism in the law. Hughes writes: \"Though another half century was to elapse before the appearance of Ogden and Richard's The Meaning of Meaning, exploration of meaning of meaning of law was Holmes's pioneer enterprise., Hughes further writes: \" To me, Mr. Justice Holmes is a prophet of the Law,\n\nOliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. was graduated from Harvard Law School in 1866, and opened a private law practice. He devoted most of his energies to legal scholarship. From 1870 to 1873 he served as editor of the American Law Review and taught constitutional law at Harvard.\n\nIn 1881, Holmes published \"The Common Law\", representing a new departure in legal philosophy. He changed the attitude of the law through his writings. The opening sentence captures the pragmatic theme of that work and of Holmes's philosophy of law: \"The life of the law has not been logic; it has been experience. \" As a justice, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. was well known for the eloquence, pungency, and abundance of his dissenting opinions––so much so that he was called the \"Great Dissenter.\" Holmes was appointed justice in 1902, and served the Court for thirty years. At that time, many state regulatory laws were being declared unconstitutional because the Court felt they did not conform to its concept of due process of law.\n\nIn a dissenting opinion in \"Lochner v. New York\" (1905) Holmes declared that the law should develop along with society and that the 14th Amendment did not deny states a right to experiment with social legislation. He also argued for judicial restraint, asserting that the Court should not interpret the Constitution according to its own social philosophy. Speaking for a unanimous Court in \"Schenck v. United States\" (1919), however, he stated that judicial review was necessary in cases involving Freedom and Speech and presented the \"clear and present danger\" doctrine associated with his name. Francis Biddle writes: \"He was convinced that one who administers constitutional law should multiply his skepticisms to avoid heading into vague words like liberty, and reading into law his private convictions or the prejudices of his class.\n\nAccording to Holmes, 'men make their own laws; that these laws do not flow from some mysterious omnipresence in the sky, and that these laws do not flow from some mysterious omnipresence in the sky, and that judges are not independent mouthpieces of the infinite., 'The common law is not a brooding omnipresence in the sky'. Law should be viewed 'from the stance of the bad man'.\n'The prophecies of what the courts will do in fact, and nothing more pretentious, are what I mean by the law'. A judge must be aware of social facts. Only a judge or lawyer who is acquainted with the historical, social, and economic aspects of the law will be in a position to fulfill his functions properly.\n\nAs a justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, Holmes introduced a new method of constitutional interpretation. He challenged the traditional concept of constitution. Holmes also protested against the method of abstract logical deduction from general rules in the judicial process. According to Holmes, lawyers and judges are not logicians and mathematicians. The books of the laws are not books of logic and mathematics. He writes: \"The life of the law has not been logic; it has been experience. The felt necessities of the time, the prevalent moral and political theories, intuitions of public policy, avowed or unconscious, and even the prejudices which judges share with their fellow-men, have had a good deal more to do than syllogism in determining the rules by which men should be governed.\n\nThe law embodies the story of a nation's development through many centuries, and it cannot be dealt with as if it contained only the axioms and corollaries of a book of mathematics., \n\nIn \"Lochner v. New York\" he observes that, 'General propositions do not decide concrete cases.\"\n\nHolmes, also insisted on the separation of 'ought' and 'is' which are obstacles in understanding the realities of the law. As an ethical sceptic, Holmes tells us that if you want to know the real law, and nothing else, you must consider it from the point of view of 'bad man' who cares only from material consequences of the courts' decisions, and not from the point of view of good man, who find his reasons for conduct \"in the vaguer sanctions of his conscience. The law is full of phraseology drawn from morals, and talks about rights and duties, malice, intent, and negligence- and nothing is easier in legal reasoning than to take these words in their moral sense. Holmes said: \"I think our morally tinted words have caused a great deal of confused thinking. But Holmes is not unconcerned with moral question. He writes: \"The law is the witness and external deposit of our moral life. Its history is the history of the moral development of the race. The practice of it, in spite of popular jests, tends to make good citizens and good men. When I emphasize the difference between law and morals I do so with reference to a single end, that of learning and understanding the law.\n\nJerome New Frank followed Holmes scepticism, and made an elaborate system of legal scepticism. He considered himself to be 'a constructive sceptic'. He challenged the traditional conception that law consists of rules from which deductions are made. He called that conception a 'basic myth of law'. He argued that it is fruitless to seek such certainty, that the law is uncertain and that the law cannot be separated from decisions of the courts.\n\nFrank argues that every legal controversy is unique and may not be decided by rigid universals and abstract generalizations. He calls those jurists who find legal uncertainty within the laws's formal rules 'Rule-sceptics', and those who find legal uncertainty arising from the nature of facts 'Fact-sceptics'. Dias writes: \"Frank divided realists into two camps, described as 'rule skeptics' and 'fact skeptic'. The 'rule skeptics' rejected legal rules as providing uniformity in law, and tried instead to find uniformity in rules evolved out of psychology, anthropology, sociology, economics, politics, etc. Hans Kelsen, it will be remembered, maintained that it is not possible to derive an 'ought' from an 'is'. The 'rule skeptics' avoided that criticism by saying that they were not deriving purposive 'oughts', but only predictions of judicial behaviour analogous to the laws of science. Frank called this brand realism the left-wing adherents of a right-wing traditions, namely, the tradition of trying to find uniformity in rules. They, too, had to account for uncertainty in the law on the basis of rule-uncertainty. The 'fact skeptics', among them Frank, rejected even this aspiration towards uniformity. So he abandoned all attempts to seek rule-certainty and pointed to the uncertainty of establishing even the facts in trial courts. These have to be established largely by witnesses, who are fallible and who may be lying. It is impossible to predict with any degree of certainty how fallible a particular witness is likely to be, or how persuasively he will lie. All persons, judges and jurymen alike, form different impressions of the dramas unfolded before them; an inflexion or a cough may awaken subconscious predilections, varied idiosyncrasies and prejudices. Eternal verities are not to be erected on such a basis. Frank alleged that all those who write on legal certainty, not excepting the 'rule skeptics', over look these difficulty. 'They often call their writings 'jurisprudence'; but as they almost never consider juries and jury-trials, one might chide them for forgetting jurisprudence. \",\n\"For any particular lay person\", Frank writes: \"the law, with respect to any particular set of facts, is a decision of a court with respect to those facts so far as that decision affects that particular person. Until a court has passed on those facts no law on that subject is yet in existence. ,\n\nFelix Frankfurter, who wrote book \"Mr. Justice Holmes and the Supreme Court\" published three years after the death of Holmes, observes in \"Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Ry. V. Browning\" that: \"It would be a narrow conception of jurisprudence to confine the notion of 'laws' to what is found written on the statute books, and to disregard the gloss which life has written upon it.\"\n\nStatutes and constitutions are inanimate object which cannot speak by themselves. John Chipman Gray, the great American Jurist, who reiterated Holmes's view, writes: \"Statutes do not interpret themselves; their meaning is declared by the courts, and it is with the meaning declared by the courts, and with no other meaning, that they are imposed upon the community as law. , He further writes: \"It has been sometime said that the Law is composed of two parts,-legislative law and judge-made law, but, in truth all the Law is judge-made law. The shape in which a statute is imposed on the community as a guide for conduct is that statute as interpreted by the courts. The courts put life into the dead words of the statute. 339 To quote from Bishop Hoadly...'Nay, whoever hath an absolute authority to interpret any written or spoken laws, it is He who is truly the law Giver to all intents and purposes, and not who first who wrote and spoke them”.\n\n"}
{"id": "31588772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31588772", "title": "Solidary obligations", "text": "Solidary obligations\n\nA solidary obligation, or an obligation \"in solido\", is a type of obligation in the civil law jurisprudence that allows either obligors to be bound together, each liable for the whole performance, or obligees to be bound together, all owed just a single performance and each entitled to the entirety of it. In general, solidarity in an obligation is never presumed, and it must be expressly stated as a true intent of the parties' will. Conventional solidary obligation are frequently created through insurance policies or the co-signing of a loan. A common example of a solidary obligation created thorough operation of law is vicarious liability such as \"respondeat superior\".\n\nIn relation to the idea itself, solidarity can be either active or passive. A solidary obligation that is active exists among the creditors or obligees in the transaction. It is passive when it exists among the debots or obligors in a transaction. A solidary obligation is almost always an advantage for a creditor because it will either allow any creditor to demand the entirety of the debt from the sole debtor when the solidarity is active, or it will allow the creditor to demand the entirety of the debt from any of the multiple debtors when it is passive.\n\nThe origin of solidarity can be traced to a Roman idea known as \"correality\" where one, individual thing was owed by more than one person. Under these circumstances, there was just a single obligation. There was a transformation and growth of this idea during the \"ancien regime\" before it was codified in the \"code civil\" under Napoleon in 1804.\n\nIn Louisiana law, solidary obligations are governed by Articles 1789-1806 of the Louisiana Civil Code.\n\nThis is known as active solidarity. An obligation is solidary for the obligees when it gives each obligee the right to demand the whole performance from the common obligor.\n\nFor example, if A and B together lend two hundred dollars to C, and it is agreed that each can have the right to seek the whole amount from C upon repayment, C's obligation to repay the money is solidary for the obligees A and B. Generally, full payment to any of the solidary obligees extinguishes the obligation.\n\nA common example of solidary obligations for the obligees is a joint bank account; when two or more names are on an account, they are obligees of the bank's obligation to make funds available on demand. Each obligee would have the right to withdraw the whole amount in the bank account.\n\nThis is known as passive solidarity. An obligation is solidary for the obligors when each obligor is liable for the whole performance in such a way that a whole performance rendered by one of the obligors relieves the others of liability toward the obligee. In practice, this is much more frequent than active solidarity. When one co-signs a loan for another, they both become solidary obligors in relation to the debt owed. In regard to liability of the obligors between themselves, the proportions owed by each obligor in a solidary obligation stemming from a contract are deemed to be equal unless a provision in the agreement states otherwise.\n\nPassive solidarity can also be created as an operation of law. In the case of an offense or a tort, if a person has sustained damage because of the shared fault of others, the offenders may be liable in solido in proportion to their fault.\n\nSince passive solidarity is mainly a guarantee and benefit for the creditor or obligee, he may renounce it at his pleasure. He may renounce it in favor of one or all of the obligors. If he renounces solidarity for only one of the obligors, this has the important effect of preserving his right to demand the whole performance from the remaining obligors bound in solido, minus the portion owed by the one whose solidarity was renounced. The other obligors could no longer seek any type of contribution from the renounced obligor if one were then required to render the whole performance. The renunciation of solidarity must be express, although it need not be done in any formal manner.\n\nGenerally, renunciation of solidarity takes place when he received a partial payment from one of the obligors, although the payment itself does not imply a renunciation. Under the Louisiana Civil Code, an obligee who received a partial performance from an obligor separately will still preserve the solidary obligation against all of the obligors after deduction of that partial performance.\n\nIn a remission of the debt, the creditor forgives the debt, thereby liberating that debtor from the whole obligation. In the context of a solidary obligation, if the obligee remits the debt of some, but not all, of the obligors, the obligation is reduced by an amount proportionate to those whose debts have been remitted; the obligee preserves his right to demand the whole from any of the remaining obligors, although his right is limited to the unremitted debt only.\n\nUnlike the renunciation of a solidary debt, a remission affects the object of the entire obligation. It is akin to entirely eliminating that obligor from the obligation. In making a remission of debt, the traditional method of doing so is for the obligee to surrender the instrument that evidences the obligation to the obligor. Such a surrender creates a presumption that the remission of debt was intended to benefit all solidary obligors; this may be rebutted by evidence showing the intent was only to remit in favor of the obligor the instrument was handed to and not all of the obligors.\n\nIf one of the solidary obligors becomes insolvent, such as through bankruptcy, his portion of the debt must be covered by each of the remaining solidary obligors in proportion to their own portions. The insolvency of one or more obligors does not affect the overall relationship between the obligors and the obligee, however, because he still can demand full performance from just one of them.\n\nEven if an obligor has had his solidarity renounced, he still must contribute in some way to make up for the loss resulting in another obligor becoming insolvent; all of the solidary obligors bear the loss arising from insolvency of a solidary obligor in proportion to their portions. However, an obligor who has had his solidarity renounced would never be liable for more than his fair portion if an obligor never becomes insolvent. In this way renunciation of solidarity can be viewed as a middle ground between complete obligation in solido and from the complete freedom from obligation that remission of debt results in.\n\nFor example, assume A, B, C, and D are liable in solido to X for $10,000. This means of course that X can look to any of these four solidary obligors for the full amount. Assume that X renounces solidarity in favor of A, who pays X $2,500, and that B thereafter goes bankrupt. Unfortunately, there is still $7,500 owed to X, who can collect that amount from either C or D. A's share is now 1/3 (approximately $3,333) because his share has been affected by B's bankruptcy. Assuming the C pays X $7,500, he can seek contribution from D for $3,333 and from A for $833, which is his share of $3,333 minus the amount he already contributed of $2,500.\n\nIf the circumstances giving rise to the solidary obligation only concern one of the obligors, then that obligor is liable for the whole obligation. The other obligors are only considered sureties. This means that although the unconcerned parties may be forced to pay the obligee some or all of the money, they can seek the entirety of their contribution from the concerned obligor in full.\n\nThe interruption of prescription against one solidary obligor is effective against all of the solidary obligors. Thus, any action that would normally interrupt liberative prescription as to one of the obligors will also prevent the debt from prescribing as to all of the other obligors.\n\n\n1 SAÚL LITVINOFF, THE LAW OF OBLIGATIONS, \"in\" 5 Louisiana Civil Law Treatise, 138-140, 142-143, 153-155, 158-162, 171-173 (West Group 2001).\n\nIn Loan Partners, LLC v. PTC Family Investments, LLC, ___ So.3d ___, 2014 WL 6725727 (La.App. 4 Cir. 2014), the court cited Marsh Engineering, Inc. v. Parker, 883 So.2d 1119 (La.App. 3 Cir. 2004), which considered whether a solidary obligor could benefit from the application of La. R.S. 9:5605, the application of which released an attorney solidary obligor, when the non-attorney solidary obligor did not have the requisite attorney-client relationship to assert a defense under this statute.\nThe court explained:\n\"A solidary obligor may raise against the obligee defenses that arise from the nature of the obligation, or that are personal to him, or that are common to all the solidary obligors. He may not raise a defense that is personal to another solidary obligor.\" La.Civ.Code art. 1801. \"[W]hen an immunity from suit is classified as personal, an insurer may not plead the immunity as a defense to a suit under the Direct Action Statute.\" Liberty Mut. Ins. Co. v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., 579 So.2d 1090, 1093 (La.App. 4 Cir.), writ denied, 586 So.2d 563 (La.1991). Thus, the question is whether the protection provided an attorney under La. R.S. 9:5605 is personal to the attorney. We conclude it is not.\"\nId., 04–0509, p. 11, 883 So.2d at 1127.\n"}
{"id": "56841156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56841156", "title": "Sonepat-Kharkhoda IMT land scam case", "text": "Sonepat-Kharkhoda IMT land scam case\n\nSonepat-Kharkhoda Industrial Model Township land scam case being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against Bhupinder Singh Hooda. This under-investigation scam pertains to acquisition of 700 acre land in 3 villages near Kharkhoda in Sonepat district for the Industrial Model Township.. Punjab and Haryana High Court in March 2013 and the Supreme Court of India in May 2016 had cancelled the government's decision to release land to the private builder. Two senior officials in then Chief Minister Hooda's office were indicted for allegedly favouring the developers. Subsequently, in 2018 the Government of Haryana referred the case to CBI to investigate the against Hooda and others.\n\nThere are a total of 6 CBI cases and several other vigilance department investigations against Hooda underway. Central Bureau of Investigation is investigating several scams, mostly related to illegal land grab, that took place during his rule in Haryana. These investigations include the Gurugram-Manesar IMT land scam, Robert Vadra DLF land grab scam, Gurugram Rajiv Gandhi Trust land grab scam, Garhi Sampla Uddar Gagan land scam, Panchkula-HUDA Industrial plots allotment scam, AJL-National Herald Panchkula land grab scam, Haryana Forestry scam case and Haryana Raxil drug purchase scam. He has been already chargesheeted in the Manesar-Gurugram land scam, while other cases are still under investigation (c. March 2018). Hooda was acquiring land from poor, illiterate farmers at a low rate in the name of \"public interest\" only to later license this to builders after granting out-of-turn favors that helped the land value increase exponentially. During his 10-year rule as Chief Minister, Hooda, licensed a massive 24,825 acres of land compared to just 8,550.32 acres by successive Chief Ministers in the 23 years preceding Hooda rule.\n\nAshok Khemka, a senior Indian Administrative Service officer in of Haryana known for exposing corruption and for cancelling the mutation of Sonia Gandhi's son-in-law Robert Vadra's illegal land deal in Gurgaon, had written to Chief Minister and Chief Secretary of Haryana to seek the CBI investigation, with the findings that both Rohtak and Sonipat land scams were more blatant than the Manesar scam. In 2005, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) notified 885 acres for acquisition for housing colony for industrial workers in sectors 59 and 60 of Sonipat, out of which 300-acre land was illegally released to a private builder.\n\n418 acres in Sonipat was released from acquisition in the same way as it was done in Gurugram-Manesar IMT land scam Manesar during Hooda’s administration.\n642 acres of land in 5 villages was notified for acquisition for developing residential and commercial sectors, by Haryana Urban Development Authority, and a notification was issued on 16 January 2004 to acquire 623.70 acres resulting in sales of land by farmers to builders at throwaway prices under the threat of acquisition. Once 418 acre of notified land was acquired by builders at throwaway prices, this was denotified and released from the acquisition, resulting in the illegal windfall gains for the builders at the expense of farmers.\n\nSubsequently, in March 2018 the Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar BJP's Government of Haryana referred the case to CBI to conduct further investigation against Hooda and others. Supreme Court had also ordered Haryana Government to take action on the Dhingra Commission's report, set up to investigate grant of land licences, so that \"pending issues could be cracked\".\n"}
{"id": "50103043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50103043", "title": "Soraya Darabi", "text": "Soraya Darabi\n\nSoraya Darabi ( ‘’Soraya Darabi’’; born 23 September 1955) is an Iranian teacher, journalist and trade union activist. Moreover, she was editor of Teacher's Pen Weekly Paper and vice president of the Iran Teachers Trade Association (ITTA).\n\nSoraya Darabi was vice president of the Iran Teachers Trade Association (ITTA) and she was editor of Teacher's Pen Weekly Paper (هفته نامه قلم معلم) on May 9, 2007 when the Iranian security guards attacked teachers gathering in Tehran (in front of Iranian Islamic Parliament) and arrested 22 teachers.\n\nSoraya Darabi was one of female teachers who were arrested. By Islamic Revolutionary Court’s decision, she was detained in Evin prison for 10 days before her release in exchange for $40,000 in bail. Additionally, since November 5, 2007, Soraya Darabi worked with Shirin Ebadi as a member of Iranian Mothers of Peace (Persian: ‘’’’’’’’ or مادران صلح) and before the shutdown of Defenders of Human Rights Center (DHRC) offices during the governance of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.\n\nShe is the wife of Mohammad Khaksari and mother of Sajjad Khaksari.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "934155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=934155", "title": "Supranational union", "text": "Supranational union\n\nA supranational union is a type of multinational political union where negotiated power is delegated to an authority by governments of member states.\n\nThe term is sometimes used to describe the European Union (EU) as a new type of political entity. It is the only entity that provides for international popular elections, going beyond the level of political integration normally afforded by international treaties. \n\nThe term \"supranational\" is sometimes used in a loose, undefined sense in other contexts such as a substitute for international, transnational or global.\n\nAnother method of decision-making in international organisations is intergovernmentalism in which state governments play a more prominent role.\n\nAfter the dropping of atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945, Albert Einstein spoke and wrote frequently in the late 1940s in favor of a \"supranational\" organization to control all military forces except for local police forces, including nuclear weapons. He thought this might begin with the United States, Great Britain, and the Soviet Union, and grow to encompass most other nations, presenting this as the only way to avoid nuclear war. He broached the idea in the November 1945 and November 1947 articles in \"The Atlantic Monthly\" that described how the constitution of such an organization might be written. In an April 1948 address at Carnegie Hall, he reiterated: \"There is only \"one\" path to peace and security: the path of supranational organization.\" Thanks to his celebrity, Einstein's ideas on the subject generated much discussion and controversy, but the proposal did not generate much support in the West and the Soviet Union viewed it with hostility.\nWith its founding Statute of 1949 and its Convention of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which came into force in 1953, the Council of Europe created a system based on human rights and the rule of law. Robert Schuman, French Foreign minister, initiated the debate on supranational democracy in his speeches at the United Nations, at the signing of the Council's Statutes and at a series of other speeches across Europe and North America.\n\nThe term \"supranational\" occurs in an international treaty for the first time (twice) in the Treaty of Paris, 18 April 1951. This new legal term defined the Community method in creating the European Coal and Steel Community and the beginning of the democratic re-organisation of Europe. It defines the relationship between the High Authority or European Commission and the other four institutions. In the treaty, it relates to a new democratic and legal concept.\n\nThe Founding Fathers of the European Community and the present European Union said that supranationalism was the cornerstone of the governmental system. This is enshrined in the \"Europe Declaration\" made on 18 April 1951, the same day as the European Founding Fathers signed the Treaty of Paris.\n\n\"By the signature of this Treaty, the participating Parties give proof of their determination to create the first supranational institution and that thus they are laying the true foundation of an organised Europe. This Europe remains open to all nations. We profoundly hope that other nations will join us in our common endeavour.\"\n\nThis declaration of principles that included their judgement for the necessary future developments was signed by Konrad Adenauer (West Germany), Paul van Zeeland and Joseph Meurice (Belgium), Robert Schuman (France), Count Sforza (Italy), Joseph Bech (Luxembourg), and Dirk Stikker and Jan van den Brink (The Netherlands). It was made to recall future generations to their historic duty of uniting Europe based on liberty and democracy under the rule of law. Thus, they viewed the creation of a wider and deeper Europe as intimately bound to the healthy development of the supranational or Community system.\n\nThis Europe was open to all nations who were free to decide, a reference/or an invitation and encouragement of liberty to the Iron Curtain countries. The term supranational does not occur in succeeding treaties, such as the Treaties of Rome, the Maastricht Treaty, the Treaty of Nice or the Constitutional Treaty or the very similar Treaty of Lisbon.\n\nA supranational union is a supranational polity which lies somewhere between a confederation that is an association of States and a federation that is a state. The European Economic Community was described by its founder Robert Schuman as midway between confederalism which recognises the complete independence of States in an association and federalism which seeks to fuse them in a super-state. The EU has supranational competences, but it possesses these competences only to the extent that they are conferred on it by its member states (\"Kompetenz-Kompetenz\"). Within the scope of these competences, the union exercises its powers in a sovereign manner, having its own legislative, executive, and judicial authorities. The supranational Community also has a chamber for organised civil society including economic and social associations and regional bodies.\n\nUnlike states in a federal super-state, member states retain ultimate sovereignty, although some sovereignty is shared with, or ceded to, the supranational body. Supranational agreements encourage stability and trust, because governments cannot break international accords at a whim. The supranational action may be time-limited. This was the case with the European Coal and Steel Community, which was agreed for 50 years with the possibility of renewal. Supranational accords may be permanent, such as an agreement to outlaw war between the partners. Full sovereignty can be reclaimed by withdrawing from the supranational arrangements but the member state may also lose existing advantages offered by unrestricted access to participating states, such as economies of scale.\n\nA supranational union, because it is an agreement between sovereign states, is based on international treaties. The European treaties in general are different from classical treaties as they are constitutionalizing treaties, that is, they provide the basis for a European level of governance and rule of law. These treaties are similar to the British constitution, in that they are not necessarily a single document. They are based on treaties between its member governments but normally have to undergo closer scrutiny than other treaties because they are more far-ranging, affecting many areas of citizens' lives and livelihoods.\n\nDecision-making is partly intergovernmental and partly supranational within the Community areas. The latter provides a higher degree of institutional scrutiny both via the Parliament and through the Consultative Committees. Intergovernmentalism provides for less democratic oversight, especially where the institution such as the Council of Ministers or the European Council takes place behind closed doors, rather than in a parliamentary chamber.\n\nA supranational authority may have some independence from member state governments in specific areas, although not as much independence as with a federal government. Supranational institutions, like federal governments, imply the possibility of pursuing agendas in ways that the delegating states did not initially envision. Democratic supranational Communities, however, are defined by treaty and by law.\n\nThe union has legal supremacy over its member states only to the extent that its member state governments have conferred competences on the union. It is up to the individual governments to assure that they have full democratic backing in each of the member states. The citizens of the member states, though retaining their nationality and national citizenship, additionally become citizens of the union, as is the case with the European Union\n\nThe European Union, the only clear example of a supranational union, has a parliament with legislative oversight, elected by its citizens.\nTo this extent, a supranational union like the European Union has characteristics that are not entirely dissimilar to the characteristics of a federal state like the United States of America. However, the differences in scale become apparent if one compares the United States federal budget with the budget of the European Union (which amounts only to about one percent of combined GDP) or the size of the federal civil service of the United States with the Civil Service of the European Union.\n\nBecause decisions in some EU structures are taken by majority votes, it is possible for a member state to be obliged by the other members to implement a decision. The states retain the competence for adding this additional supranational competence.\n\nHistorically the concept was introduced and made a concrete reality by Robert Schuman when the French Government agreed to the principle in the Schuman Declaration and accepted the Schuman Plan confined to specific sectors of vital interest of peace and war. Thus commenced the European Community system beginning with the European Coal and Steel Community. The six founder States (France, Italy, Germany, The Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg) agreed on the goal: making \"war not only unthinkable but materially impossible\". They agreed about the means: putting the vital interests, namely coal and steel production, under a common High Authority, subject to common democratic and legal institutions. They agreed on the European rule of law and a new democratic procedure.\n\nThe five institutions (besides the High Authority) were a Consultative Committee (a chamber representing civil society interests of enterprises, workers and consumers), a parliament, and a Council of government ministers. A Court of Justice would decide disputes coming from governments, public or private enterprises, consumer groups, any other group interests or even an individual. A complaint could be lodged in a local tribunal or national courts, where appropriate. Member states have yet to fulfil and develop the articles in the Paris and Rome treaties for full democracy in the European Parliament and other institutions such as the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of Regions.\n\nSchuman described supranational unions as a new stage in human development. It contrasted with destructive nationalisms of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries that began in a glorious patriotism and ended in wars. He traced the beginning concept of supranationality back to the nineteenth century, such as the Postal Union, and the term supranational is used around the time of the First World War. Democracy, which he defined as \"in the service of the people and acting in agreement with it\", was a fundamental part of a supranational community. However, governments only began to hold direct elections to the European Parliament in 1979, and then not according to the treaties. A single electoral statute was specified in the treaty for Europe's first community of coal and steel in 1951. Civil society (largely non-political) was to have its own elected chamber in the Consultative Committees specific to each Community as democratically agreed, but the process was frozen (as were Europe's parliamentary elections) by Charles de Gaulle and other politicians who opposed the Community method.\n\nToday supranationalism only exists in the two European Communities inside the EU: the Economic Community (often called the European Community although it does not legally cover all State activities) and Euratom (the European Atomic Energy Community, a non-proliferation community, in which certain potentialities have been frozen or blocked). Supranational Communities provide powerful but generally unexploited and innovatory means for democratic foreign policy, by mobilising civil society to the democratically agreed goals of the Community.\n\nThe first Community of Coal and Steel was agreed only for fifty years. Opposition, mainly by enterprises which had to pay a small European tax of less than 1% and government ministers in the Council, led to its democratic mandate not being renewed. Its jurisprudence and heritage remains part of the European Community system.\n\nDe Gaulle attempted to turn the European Commission into a political secretariat under his control in the Fouchet Plan but this move was thwarted by such democrats in the Benelux countries as Paul-Henri Spaak, Joseph Luns and Joseph Bech as well as a large wave of other pro-Europeans in all the Community countries.\n\nThe supranational Community method came under attack, not only from de Gaulle but also from other nationalists and Communists. In the post-de Gaulle period, rather than holding pan-European elections under a single statute as specified in all the treaties, governments held and continue to hold separate national elections for the European Parliament. These often favour the major parties and discriminate against smaller, regional parties. Rather than granting elections to organised civil society in the consultative committees, governments created a three-pillar system under the Amsterdam Treaty and Maastricht Treaty, mixing intergovernmental and supranational systems. Two pillars governing External policy and Justice and Home affairs are not subject to the same democratic controls as the Community system.\n\nIn the Lisbon Treaty and the earlier nearly identical Constitutional Treaty, the democratic independence of the five key institutions is further blurred. This moves the project from full democratic supranationalism in the direction of not just intergovernmentalism but the politicisation of the institutions, and control by two or three major party political organisations. The Commission defines key legal aspects of the supranational system because its members must be independent of commercial, labour, consumer, political or lobby interests (Article 9 of the Paris Treaty). The Commission was to be composed of a small number of experienced personalities, whose impartiality was beyond question. As such, the early presidents of the Commission and the High Authority were strong defenders of European democracy against national, autocratic practice or the rule of the strong over the weak.\n\nThe idea in the Constitutional and Lisbon Treaties is to run the European Commission as a political office. Governments would prefer to have a \"national\" member in the Commission, although this is against the principle of supranational democracy. (The original concept was that the Commission should act as a single impartial college of independent, experienced personalities having public confidence. One of the Communities was defined in the treaty with a Commission with fewer members than the number of its member states.) Thus, the members of the Commission are becoming predominantly party-political, and composed of sometimes rejected, disgraced or unwanted national politicians.\n\nThe first president of the High Authority was Jean Monnet, who never joined a political party, as was the case with most of the other members of the Commissions. They came from diverse liberal professions, having made recognised European contributions.\n\nGovernments also wish to retain the secrecy of their deliberations in the Council of Ministers or the European Council, which discusses matters of the most vital interest to European citizens. While some institutions such as the European Parliament have their debates open to the public, others such as the Council of Ministers and numerous committees are not. Schuman wrote in his book, \"Pour l'Europe\" (\"For Europe\"), that in a democratic supranational Community \"the Councils, committees and other organs should be placed under the control of public opinion that was effectual without paralysing their activity nor useful initiatives\".\n\nJoseph H. H. Weiler, in his seminal work \"The Dual Character of Supranationalism\", states that there are two main facets to European supranationalism, although these seem to be true of many supranational systems. These are:\n\nIn many ways, the split sees the separation of powers confined to merely two branches.\n\nIn the Lisbon Treaty, the distribution of competences in various policy areas between member states and the European Union is redistributed in three categories. In 19th century U.S., it had exclusive competences only. Competences not explicitly listed belong to lower levels of governance.\n\nIn a supranational union, the problem of how to reconcile the principle of equality among nation states, which applies to international (intergovernmental) organisations, and the principle of equality among citizens, which applies within nation states is resolved by taking a sectoral approach. This allows an innovatory, democratic broadening the number of actors to be included. These are present not only in the classical Parliament which has slightly different functions but also in the Consultative Committees such as the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions which the treaties give powers equivalent to parliaments in their own areas but which are at present still developing their potential. In the European Union, the Lisbon Treaty mixes two principles (classical parliamentary government with a politically elected government) and a supranational community with a totally independent European Commission. Governments are also trying to treat the Lisbon Treaty as a simple classical treaty, or even an amendment to one, which does not require citizens' support or democratic approval. The proposed Lisbon Treaty and the earlier Constitutional draft still retain in the European Union elements of a supranational union, as distinct from a federal state on the lines of the United States of America. But this is at the expense of the democratic potentialities of a full supranational union as conceived in the first Community.\n\nThe only union generally recognised as having achieved the status of a supranational union is the European Union.\n\nThere are a number of other regional organisations that, while not supranational unions, have adopted or intend to adopt policies that may lead to a similar sort of integration in some respects.\n\nOther organisations that have also discussed greater integration include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1719573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1719573", "title": "Swift v. Tyson", "text": "Swift v. Tyson\n\nSwift v. Tyson, 41 U.S. (16 Pet.) 1 (1842), was a case brought in diversity in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York on a bill of Exchange accepted in New York in which the Supreme Court of the United States determined that United States federal courts hearing cases brought under their diversity jurisdiction pursuant to the Judiciary Act of 1789 must apply the statutory law of the states when the state legislature of the state in question had spoken on the issue but did not have to apply the state's common law in those cases in which that state's legislature had not spoken on the issue. The Court's ruling meant that the federal courts, when deciding matters not specifically addressed by the state legislature, had the authority to develop a federal common law.\n\nJudiciary Act of 1789, §34: \"the laws of the several states, except where the constitution, treaties or statutes of the United States shall otherwise recognise or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law, in the courts of the United States, in cases where they apply.\"\n\nThe Court:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "259407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=259407", "title": "Trial by combat", "text": "Trial by combat\n\nTrial by combat (also wager of battle, trial by battle or judicial duel) was a method of Germanic law to settle accusations in the absence of witnesses or a confession in which two parties in dispute fought in single combat; the winner of the fight was proclaimed to be right. In essence, it was a judicially sanctioned duel. It remained in use throughout the European Middle Ages, gradually disappearing in the course of the 16th century.\n\nUnlike trial by ordeal in general, which is known to many cultures worldwide, trial by combat is known primarily from the customs of the Germanic peoples. It was in use among the ancient Burgundians, Ripuarian Franks, Alamans, Lombards, and Swedes. It was unknown in Anglo-Saxon law, Roman law and Irish Brehon Law and it does not figure in the traditions of Middle Eastern antiquity such as the code of Hammurabi or the Torah.\n\nThe practice is regulated in various Germanic legal codes. Being rooted in Germanic tribal law, the various regional laws of the Frankish Empire (and the later Holy Roman Empire) prescribed different particulars, such as equipment and rules of combat. The \"Lex Alamannorum\" (\"recensio Lantfridana\" 81, dated to 712–30 AD) prescribes a trial by combat in the event of two families disputing the boundary between their lands. A handful of earth taken from the disputed piece of land is put between the contestants and they are required to touch it with their swords, each swearing that their claim is lawful. The losing party besides forfeiting their claim to the land is required to pay a fine.\n\nCapitularies governing its use appear from the year 803 onwards. Louis the Pious prescribed combat between witnesses of each side, rather than between the accuser and the accused, and briefly allowed for the Ordeal of the Cross in cases involving clerics.\n\nIn medieval Scandinavia, the practice survived throughout the Viking Age in the form of the Holmgang.\n\nOtto the Great in 967 expressly sanctioned the practice of Germanic tribal law even if it did not figure in the more \"imperial\" Roman law. The celebrated case of Gero, Count of Alsleben, is a good example. The Fourth Lateran Council of 1215 deprecated judicial duels, and Pope Honorius III in 1216 asked the Teutonic order to cease its imposition of judicial duels on their newly converted subjects in Livonia. For the following three centuries, there was latent tension between the traditional regional laws and Roman law.\n\nThe \"Sachsenspiegel\" of 1230 recognizes the judicial duel as an important function to establish guilt or innocence in cases of insult, injury or theft. The combatants are armed with sword and shield, and may wear linen and leather clothing, but their head and feet must be bare and their hands only protected by light gloves. The accuser is to await the accused at the designated place of combat. If the accused does not appear after being summoned three times, the accuser may execute two cuts and two stabs against the wind, and his matter will be treated as if he had won the fight.\n\nThe \"Kleines Kaiserrecht\", an anonymous legal code of c. 1300, prohibits judicial duels altogether, stating that the emperor had come to this decision on seeing that too many innocent men were convicted by the practice just for being physically weak. Nevertheless, judicial duels continued to be popular throughout the 14th and 15th centuries.\nTrial by combat plays a significant role in the German schools of fencing in the 15th century. Notably, Hans Talhoffer depicts techniques to be applied in such duels, separately for the Swabian (sword and shield) and Franconian (mace and shield) variants, although other \"Fechtbücher\" such as that of Paulus Kal and the \"Codex Wallerstein\" show similar material. While commoners were required to present their case to a judge before duelling, members of the nobility did have the right to challenge each other for duels without the involvement of the judiciary, so that duels of this kind were separate from the judicial duel already in the Middle Ages and were not affected by the latter's abolition in the early 16th century by Emperor Maximilian I, evolving into the gentlemanly duel of modern times which was outlawed only as late as in the 19th century.\n\nHans Talhoffer in his 1459 \"Thott\" codex names seven offences that in the absence of witnesses were considered grave enough to warrant a judicial duel, viz. murder, treason, heresy, desertion of one's lord, \"imprisonment\" (possibly in the sense of abduction), perjury/fraud and rape.\n\n\"Wager of battle\", as the trial by combat was called in English, appears to have been introduced into the common law of the Kingdom of England following the Norman Conquest and remained in use for the duration of the High and Late Middle Ages.\n\nThe last certain trial by battle in England occurred in 1446: a servant accused his master of treason, and the master drank too much wine before the battle and was slain by the servant. In Scotland and Ireland, the practice was continued into the sixteenth century.\n\nThe wager of battle was not always available to the defendant in an appeal of murder. If the defendant were taken in the \"mainour\" (that is, in the act of committing his crime), if he attempted to escape from prison, or if there was such strong evidence of guilt that there could be no effective denial, the defendant could not challenge. Similarly, if the plaintiff was a woman, above 60 years of age, a minor, lame or blind, they could decline the challenge, and the case would be determined by a jury. Peers of the realm, priests, and citizens of the City of London (the last pursuant to their guarantee of ancient liberties under Magna Carta) could also decline the battle if challenged. If the actual battle took place, it would occur in judicial lists, square, following the taking of oaths against witchcraft and sorcery. If the defendant was defeated and still alive, he was to be hanged on the spot. However, if he defeated his opponent, or if he were able to fend off his opponent from sunrise to sunset, he would go free. If the plaintiff said the word \"craven\" (\"I am vanquished\") and gave up the fight, he was to be declared infamous, deprived of the privileges of a freeman, and was liable for damages to his successful opponent.\n\nThe earliest case in which wager of battle is recorded was \"Wulfstan v. Walter\" (1077), eleven years after the Conquest. Significantly, the names of the parties suggest that it was a dispute between a Saxon and a Norman. The \"Tractatus of Glanvill\", from around 1187, appears to have considered it the chief mode of trial, at least among aristocrats entitled to bear arms.\n\nAround 1219, trial by jury replaced trial by ordeal, which had been the mode of proof for crown pleas since the Assize of Clarendon in 1166. With the emergence of the legal profession in the thirteenth century, lawyers, guarding the safety of the lives and limbs of their clients, steered people away from the wager of battle. A number of legal fictions were devised to enable litigants to avail themselves of the jury even in the sort of actions that were traditionally tried by wager of battle. The practice of averting trial by combat led to the modern concept of attorneys representing litigants.\n\nCivil disputes were handled differently from criminal cases. In civil cases, women, the elderly, the infirm of body, minors, and—after 1176—the clergy could choose a jury trial or could have champions named to fight in their stead. Hired champions were technically illegal but are obvious in the record. A 1276 document among Bishop Swinefield's household records makes the promise to pay Thomas of Brydges an annual retainer fee for acting as champion, with additional stipend and expenses paid for each fight. In criminal cases, an \"approver\" was often chosen from the accomplices of the accused or from a prison to do the fighting for the crown. Approvers sometimes were given their freedom after winning five trials but sometimes were hanged anyway.\n\nIn practice, a person facing trial by combat was assisted by a second, often referred to as a squire. The role of the squire was to attend the battle and to arrange the particulars of the ceremony with the opposing squire. Over time, squires would meet and resolve the disputes during negotiations over combat. Ample time was made for this by creating a process for checking the saddle and bridle of horses for prayer scrolls and enchantments and requiring litigants to exchange gloves (the origin of \"throwing down the gauntlet\") and sometimes to go to separate churches and give five pence (for the five wounds of Christ) to the church.\n\nEarly trials by combat allowed a variety of weapons, particularly for knights. Later, commoners were given war hammers, cudgels, or quarterstaves with sharp iron tips. The duelling ground was typically sixty feet square. Commoners were allowed a rectangular leather shield and could be armed with a suit of leather armour, bare to the knees and elbows and covered by a red surcoat of a light type of silk called \"sendal\". The litigants appeared in person. The combat was to begin before noon and be concluded before sunset.\n\nEither combatant could end the fight and lose his case by crying out the word \"craven\", from the Old French for \"broken\", which acknowledged \"(I am) vanquished.\" The party who did so, however, whether litigant or champion, was punished with outlawry. Fighting continued until one party was dead or disabled. The last man standing won his case.\n\nBy 1300, the wager of combat had all but died out in favor of trial by jury. One of the last mass trials by combat in Scotland, the \"Battle of the Clans\", took place in Perth in 1396. This event took the form of a pitched battle between teams of around thirty men each, representing Clan Macpherson and Clan Davidson on the North Inch in front of the king, Robert III. The battle was intended to resolve a dispute over which clan was to hold the right flank in an upcoming battle of both clans (and several others) against Clan Cameron. The Clan Macpherson is thought to have won, but only twelve men survived from the original sixty.\n\nThe last trial by combat under the authority of an English monarch is thought to have taken place during the reign of Elizabeth I in the inner courtyard of Dublin Castle in Ireland on 7 September 1583.\nThe dispute was between members of the O'Connor clan (i.e., sept) in King's county (modern County Offaly), who were persuaded by two judges (referred to in the account below) to bring the matter before the Irish privy council for resolution.\n\nThe dispute probably concerned dynastic power within the territory of the O'Connors, and the parties, Teig and Conor, had accused each other of treason; the privy council granted their wish for trial by combat to take place on the following day, and for another such trial between two other members of the same sept to take place on the Wednesday following.\nThe first combat took place as appointed, with the combatants \"in their shirts with swords, targetts and skulles\". An account of the proceedings as observed by one of the privy councillors is given in the State papers Ireland 63/104/69 (spelling adapted):\n\nThe Annals of the Four Masters also refers to the trial and censures the parties for having allowed the English to entice them into the proceedings. It is also referred to in Holinshed's chronicles.\nThis was a trial not at common law but under consiliar jurisdiction.\n\nIt is uncertain when the last actual trial by battle in Britain took place. While some references speak of such a trial being held in 1631, records indicate that King Charles I intervened to prevent the battle. A 1638 case is less clear: it involved a legal dispute between Ralf Claxton and Richard Lilburne (the latter the father of the pugnacious John Lilburne). The king again stepped in, and judges acted to delay proceedings. No record survives of the outcome of the case, but no contemporary account speaks of the trial by battle actually taking place. The last certain judicial battle in Britain was in Scotland in 1597, when Adam Bruntfield accused James Carmichael of murder and killed him in battle.\n\nProposals to abolish trial by battle were made in the 17th century and twice in the 18th but were unsuccessful. In 1774, as part of the legislative response to the Boston Tea Party, Parliament considered a bill which would have abolished appeals of murder and trials by battle in the American colonies. It was successfully opposed by Member of Parliament John Dunning, who called the appeal of murder \"that great pillar of the Constitution\". Writer and MP Edmund Burke, on the other hand, supported the abolition, calling the appeal and wager \"superstitious and barbarous to the last degree\".\n\nThe \"writ of right\" was the most direct way at common law of challenging someone's right to a piece of real property. The \"criminal appeal\" was a private criminal prosecution instituted by the accuser directly against the accused. It was not, unlike the contemporary appeal, a proceeding in a court of superior jurisdiction reviewing the proceedings of a lower court.\n\nSuch a private prosecution was last conducted in the case of \"Ashford v Thornton\" in 1818. Pronouncing judgement in favour of the accused's plea claiming the wager of battle, Justice Bayley of the King's Bench said that:\n\nOne inconvenience attending this mode of proceeding is, that the party who institutes it must be willing, if required, to stake his life in support of his accusation. \n\nThe accusation was quickly withdrawn after this judgement. Parliament abolished wager of battle the following year, in 1819, and at the same time they also abolished the writ of right and criminal appeals. Despite this abolition, in 2002 a Welshman in Bury St. Edmunds refusing to pay a small penalty charge for a vehicle-registration violation demanded trial by combat with the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency; his demand was rejected, and he was fined by a court.\n\nIn December 1386, one of the last trials by combat authorised by the French King Charles VI was fought in Paris. The trial was fought to decide a case brought by Sir Jean de Carrouges against squire Jacques Le Gris, whom he accused of raping his wife Marguerite when Carrouges was in Paris conducting business. After lengthy hearings at the Parlement de Paris, with Amid LeGris claiming that he had not committed the crime and Marguerite being with child, it was decided that guilt could not be decided through a standard jury trial, and a judicial duel was ordered. The duel put four lives in the hands of fate. Those four lives being Jacques LeGris, the accused, Jean de Carrouges, the accuser, Marguerite, the alleged victim and the unborn child, paternity unknown. In the duel, the survivor of said duel would be consider the winner of the claim. If Jacque LeGris won the duel not only would Jean de Carrouges die but his wife and her unborn child would also be put to death for the crime of being a false accuser.\n\nIn late December, shortly after Christmas, the combatants met in the grounds of an abbey in the northern Paris suburbs. After lengthy ceremony, battle was joined, and after a furious and bloody encounter Carrouges stabbed his opponent through the throat with his dagger and claimed victory, being rewarded with substantial financial gifts and a position in the royal household. The duel was watched by the royal court, several royal dukes and thousands of ordinary Parisians and was recorded in several notable chronicles including Froissart's Chronicles and Grandes Chroniques de France. It has since been covered by several notable texts, including Diderot's Encyclopédie, Voltaire and the Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition, and also by the 2004 book \"The Last Duel\" by Eric Jager.\n\nAbout A.D. 630, Gundeberga, wife of the Lombard King Arioald, is supposed to have been accused by a disappointed lover of a plot to poison the king and take another man. King Arioald consented that her innocence should be tested by a single combat between her accuser and a nobleman who undertook to defend her. The accuser having been slain, Gundeberga was declared innocent. This was the first instance of a trial by combat in the history of Italy.\n\nThe jurisprudence of judicial duelling in Italy is particularly well documented in the 15th and 16th centuries. In particular, the treatises of Achille Marozzo (1536), Giovanni Battista Pigna (1554) and Girolamo Mutio (1560) have contributed to shed considerable light on the subject.\n\nThe fundamental aspects of Italy's duelling customs were the following. The offended party (attore or agent) had to accuse the defendant (reo) of an injury of words or deeds he received, in matters that could not be reliably proven in a courtroom. In turn, the defendant had to issue a \"mentita,\" meaning that he had to tell the agent \"you lie,\" which consisted of an injury of words. After this, the agent had to issue a notarized \"cartello,\" or a notice of challenge to the defendant, which, if accepted, would set the formal proceedings in motion.\n\nThe defendant had the important advantage of the election of weapons. This was done to ensure that the institution would not be abused by the strong to overpower the weak, although the system was gamed in many ways bordering on the illegal.\n\nThe duel would take place on the land of a lord impartial to both parties, or if this was not practicable, \"alla macchia,\" meaning on public lands. The herald read the accusation out loud and gave the defendant one last chance to confess. If the latter did not do so, the duel would begin, and it was the responsibility of the issuer of the challenge to deliver (or attempt) the first blow. Incapacitating injuries or death would dictate victory, although other scenarios were possible as well. For instance, if the defendant could successfully parry all blows delivered by the agent until sundown, the defendant would be considered the victor.\n\nWith the counter-reformation of the 16th century, duelling became illegal; however, its customs were maintained and utilized by most middle to upper social classes until the beginning of the 19th century.\n\nAt the times of the independence in 1776, trial by combat was still legal in the United Kingdom, and the United States inherited British common law on independence. The question of whether trial by combat remains a valid alternative to civil action has been argued to remain open, at least in theory. In \"McNatt v. Richards\" (1983), the Delaware Court of Chancery rejected the defendant's request for \"trial by combat to the death\" on the grounds that dueling was illegal. In \"Forgotten Trial Techniques: The Wager of Battle\", Donald J. Evans set out the possibility of a trial by battle in the setting of a lawyer's office. A tongue-in-cheek motion during 2015 for trial by combat in response to a civil suit was rejected in 2016.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the practice was not officially revoked until February 1819 when the Attorney General Samuel Shepherd introduced the Trial by Battle Abolition Bill.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22143560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22143560", "title": "Verbal injury", "text": "Verbal injury\n\nVerbal injury is a delict in Scotland.\n\nProof of special damage\n\nIn any action for verbal injury it is not necessary for the pursuer to aver or prove special damage if the words on which the action is founded are calculated to cause pecuniary damage to the pursuer.\n\n"}
