{"id": "352134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=352134", "title": "Acting president", "text": "Acting president\n\nAn acting president is a person who temporarily fills the role of a country's president when the incumbent president is unavailable (such as by illness or a vacation) or when the post is vacant (such as for death, injury, resignation, dismissal). The following articles detail the constitutional role of an acting president in various countries:\n"}
{"id": "46439622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46439622", "title": "Adequate Public Facilities Ordinance", "text": "Adequate Public Facilities Ordinance\n\nAn Adequate Public Facilities Ordinance, APFO, or Concurrency Regulation is a legislative method to tie public infrastructure to growth for a region.\n\nAPFOs take into account the availability of infrastructure. They can affect growth, but are considered separate from growth controls such as building moratoria.\nRamapo, New York; Petaluma, California; and Boulder, Colorado were some of the early adopters of this tool in America. The state of Florida uses the term \"concurrency\" in its growth management act.\n\nAPFO regulations take into affect some or all of a jurisdiction's infrastructure requirements, including:\n\nOther elements include:\n\nAPFO regulations are typically applied to a jurisdiction which has legislative control of a given area. In America, this can be at a state, county, or city level. A conflict can occur when APFO regulations differ in scope between jurisdictions where there is shared funding and legislative authority (such as a city located inside a county that funds schools). While APFOs are intended to mitigate infrastructure shortcomings for a particular area, the mitigation may apply to areas offsite of the development project. APFO regulations usually apply to individual projects on a case-by-case basis.\n\nTraditional opponents of APFO legislation include industries affected by moratoria or fees, including realtors, developers, and some Smart Growth advocates. Home costs for some locations that have enacted APFO have experienced increases in housing prices affecting affordable housing, in conjunction with positive effects of relief from school capacity shortcomings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12242762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12242762", "title": "BINCI", "text": "BINCI\n\nThe Batallón Único de Inteligencia y Contrainteligencia () of the Colombian National Army. The BINCI has also been referred to as the \"Charry Solano battalion,\" after its original chief, Brigadier General Ricardo Charry Solano.\n\nIt has also been known as the Twentieth Brigade or Brigade XX.\n\nDuring the years of its operation, the BINCI was considered the Colombian National Army's primary counter-intelligence unit and under direct operational control of the E-2 Army intelligence directorate in Bogotá, Colombia.\n\nA declassified 1979 report from the United States Embassy in Bogotá, published in 2007 by the National Security Archive, mentioned that there was a plan for the BINCI to form a paramilitary operation under the guise of the Alianza Americana Anticomunista (AAA). The report describes the goal of the formation of the AAA as \"to create the impression that the American Anti-communist Alliance has established itself in Colombia and is preparing to take violent action against local communists.\" The BINCI, acting as the AAA, has been linked to the December 1978 bombing of the Colombian Communist Party Headquarters, the bombing of the Communist Party newspaper \"Voz Proletaria\". It has also been accused of engaging in other kidnappings, bombings and assassinations against leftist targets and guerrilla detainees.\n\nOn August 30, 1987, Nydia Erika Bautista de Arellana was kidnapped by a group of undercover operatives identified as part of Brigade XX. Nydia Erika was 30 years old and had previously been detained due to her student activism and membership in the Movimiento 19 de Abril () (M-19) guerrilla group. On September 12, 1987, her body was found, showing signs that she had been shot once in the head execution style. On July 9, 1995, Colombia's Procurator-Delegate for Human Rights, Hernando Valencia Villa, announced the conclusions of a disciplinary investigation into the 1987 \"disappearance\", torture and murder of Nydia Erika Bautista and called for Brigadier General Álvaro Hernán Velandia Hurtado and an army sergeant to be expelled from the armed forces. It was found that the then commander of Brigade XX for which the \"Charry Solano\" Army Battalion was attached, was fully aware of the capture, disappearance, torture and murder of Nydia Erika Bautista by men under his command and that he had had the \"duty, power and opportunity to prevent this serious crime from being committed\".\n\nOn February 27, 1998, the BINCI was implicated by Colombian government investigators in the murders of human rights workers; lawyer Jesús María Valle, president of the \"Héctor Abad Gómez\" Permanent Committee for Human Rights in Antioquia and human rights lawyer Eduardo Umaña. In May 1998 the Twentieth Brigade assaulted the offices of Justicia y Paz () where they were reported to have ransacked the offices and forced nuns and human rights workers to their knees and placed guns to their heads.\n\nOn May 19, 1998, the BINCI was disbanded pending a reorganization, in part due to their participation in human rights abuses.\n\n"}
{"id": "900337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=900337", "title": "Bridge loan", "text": "Bridge loan\n\nA bridge loan is a type of short-term loan, typically taken out for a period of 2 weeks to 3 years pending the arrangement of larger or longer-term financing. It is usually called a bridging loan in the United Kingdom, also known as a \"caveat loan,\" and also known in some applications as a swing loan. In South African usage, the term bridging finance is more common, but is used in a more restricted sense than is common elsewhere.\n\nA bridge loan is interim financing for an individual or business until permanent financing or the next stage of financing is obtained. Money from the new financing is generally used to \"take out\" (i.e. to pay back) the bridge loan, as well as other capitalization needs.\n\nBridge loans are typically more expensive than conventional financing, to compensate for the additional risk. Bridge loans typically have a higher interest rate, points (points are essentially fees, 1 point equals 1% of loan amount), and other costs that are amortized over a shorter period, and various fees and other \"sweeteners\" (such as equity participation by the lender in some loans). The lender also may require cross-collateralization and a lower loan-to-value ratio. On the other hand, they are typically arranged quickly with relatively little documentation.\n\nBridge loans are often used for commercial real estate purchases to quickly close on a property, retrieve real estate from foreclosure, or take advantage of a short-term opportunity in order to secure long-term financing. Bridge loans on a property are typically paid back when the property is sold, refinanced with a traditional lender, the borrower's creditworthiness improves, the property is improved or completed, or there is a specific improvement or change that allows a permanent or subsequent round of mortgage financing to occur. The timing issue may arise from project phases with different cash needs and risk profiles as much as ability to secure funding.\n\nA bridge loan is similar to and overlaps with a hard money loan. Both are non-standard loans obtained due to short-term or unusual circumstances. The difference is that hard money refers to the lending source, usually an individual, investment pool, or private company that is not a bank in the business of making high-risk, high-interest loans, whereas a bridge loan is a short-term loan that \"bridges the gap\" between longer-term loans.\n\nFor typical terms of up to 12 months, 2–4 points may be charged. Loan-to-value (LTV) ratios generally do not exceed 65% for commercial properties, or 80% for residential properties, based on appraised value.\n\nA bridge loan may be closed, meaning it is available for a predetermined time frame, or open in that there is no fixed payoff date (although there may be a required payoff after a certain time).\n\nA first charge bridging loan is generally available at a higher LTV than a second charge bridging loan due to the lower level of risk involved, many UK lenders will steer clear of second charge lending altogether.\n\nLower LTVs may also attract lower rates, again representing the lower level of underwriting risk, although front-end fees, lenders legal fees, and valuation payments may remain fixed.\n\n\nBridge loans are used in venture capital and other corporate finance for several purposes:\n\nIn South African law immovable property is transferred via a system of registration in public registries known as Deeds Offices. Given the delays resulting from the transfer process, many participants in property transactions require access to funds which will otherwise only become available on the day that the transaction is registered in the relevant Deeds Office.\n\nBridging finance companies provide finance that creates a bridge between the participant's immediate cash flow requirement and the eventual entitlement to funds on registration in the Deeds Office. Bridging finance is typically not provided by banks.\n\nVarious forms of bridging finance are available, depending on the participant in the property transaction that requires finance. Sellers of fixed property can bridge sales proceeds, estate agents bridge estate agents' commission, and mortgagors bridge the proceeds of further or switch bonds. Bridging finance is also available to settle outstanding property taxes or municipal accounts or to pay transfer duties.\n\nShort term finance similar to modern bridging loans was available in the UK as early as the 1960s, but usually only through high street banks and building societies to known customers. The bridging loan market remained small into the millennium, with a limited number of lenders.\n\nBridging loans became increasingly popular in the UK after the 2008–2009 global recession, with gross lending more than doubling from £0.8 billion in the year to March 2011 to £2.2 billion in the year to June 2014. This coincided with a marked decline in mainstream mortgage lending in the same period, as banks and building societies grew more reluctant to grant home loans.\n\nThe overall value of the residential loan amounts outstanding in Q1 2016 was £1,304.5billion, an increase of 1.0% compared with Q4 2015 and an increase of 3.4% over the past four quarters.\n\nAs the popularity of bridging loans increased, so too did the controversy around them. In 2011, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) warned homebuyers against using bridging loans as substitutes for ordinary mortgages, expressing fears that some mortgage brokers might be misrepresenting their suitability.\n\nSince 2011, the bridging market has been monitored by the West One Bridging Index, and has seen a consistent increase in popularity and prevalence coinciding with a consistent drop in average monthly interest rates.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, bridging loans are used in both business and real estate. In the former, they are typically used to free equity in order to boost cash flow. In the latter, they are used by home-movers to ‘break’ property chains by providing a short-term source of finance when there is a delay between sale and completion dates, by buyers bidding on property at auction, and by landlords and property developers to secure renovation finance for quick sale or to refurbish a property that is considered uninhabitable prior to obtaining ordinary mortgage finance.\n\nBridging loans can be secured as a first or second charge against real property, including commercial real estate, buy-to-let property, dilapidated property and land or building plots. Loan terms typically run up to 18 months, with compound interest charged monthly; as such, they are often more expensive than other types of secured home loan.\n\nBridging loans are defined as either ‘opened’ or ‘closed’. A loan is closed if the borrower has a clear and credible repayment plan or exit strategy in place, such as the sale of the loan security or longer-term finance. Open bridging loans are riskier to both the borrower and creditor due to the greater likelihood of default.\n\nBridging loans secured by first charge against a property in which the borrower or a close family member will reside are considered regulated mortgage contracts, and are therefore regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Bridging loans sold to landlords and property developers are generally not regulated; however, if the occupant of the rental property against which the loan is secured is or will be a close family member of the borrower, FCA regulation will still apply.\n\nAn exception currently exists in the case of mixed-use properties, where the borrower or a close relative will occupy less than 40% of the property. In March 2016, however, the UK will be forced to bring its existing legislation in line with that of Europe, under the pan-European Mortgage Credit Directive (MCD). As the MCD does not recognise usage thresholds when defining a regulated contract, it is currently unclear whether the ‘40% rule’ will continue to apply.\n\n"}
{"id": "38461575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38461575", "title": "British Democratic Party (2013)", "text": "British Democratic Party (2013)\n\nThe British Democratic Party, commonly known as the British Democrats, is a British far-right political party. It was launched in 2013 in a village hall in Leicestershire by a ten-member steering committee which included former members of several political parties including the British National Party (BNP), Democratic Nationalists, Freedom Party and UK Independence Party (UKIP).\n\nThe party's inaugural president was Andrew Brons, a then Member of the European Parliament (MEP). Brons had been a member of the BNP and a leading member of the National Front (NF). The steering committee included a number of others with a history of membership in fascist and neo-Nazi groups, who believed that the BNP had been corrupted and watered-down.\n\nBrons resigned from the BNP in October 2012, after a failed campaign to unseat Nick Griffin as leader of the party in 2011. A number of other disillusioned BNP members have joined him, including Kevin Scott, founder and director of Civil Liberty, who is acting as the interim chairman of the BDP, and who used to be a party organiser for the British National Party in the North East. Other prominent members of the party include:\n\nNick Lowles, of Hope not Hate, believes the party will be a serious threat to the BNP. \"The BDP brings together all of the hardcore Holocaust deniers and racists that have walked away from the BNP over the last two to three years, plus those previously, who could not stomach the party’s image changes... They and the BNP already have a mutual hatred of each other and neither party will stop until they’ve killed the other one off. The gloves will be off and it will be toxic\". Mathew Collins, also of Hope not Hate, predicted that the party would espouse policies of scientific racism and Holocaust denial, ideas from which the BNP, under Griffin, distanced themselves.\n\nAndrew Brons has been the leader of the British Democratic Party since its foundation on 9 February 2013.\n\nThe British Democrats support putting the reintroduction of the death penalty to a referendum/people's vote.\n\nThey are committed to \"ending all immigration\" and wish to repeal laws that they perceive as mandating preferential treatment for immigrants and ethnic minorities.\n\nThe party wishes to withdraw the UK from the European Union, citing the cost and what it sees as a lack of democracy within EU institutions.\n\nThe party fielded three candidates in the 2013 English County Council elections: two in north Leicestershire and one in Pendle, Lancashire. In Leicestershire, the party polled 215 votes (7.4%) in Coalville and 206 votes (7.4%) in Loughborough South, while in Lancashire it polled 133 (4.0%).\n\nIn a by-election for the Loughborough Hastings ward of Charnwood Borough Council on 24 October 2013, the British Democrats polled 85 votes (9.4%).\n\nThe party did not contest the May 2014 European Parliament election, but stood candidates in the local elections: two in Bradford, one in Leeds, three in Newcastle upon Tyne and one in the London Borough of Redbridge.\n\nIn a by-election for the Thurmaston Ward of Charnwood Borough Council on 31 July 2014, the British Democrats polled 94 votes (5.1%) beating the BNP into fifth place with 58 votes (3.2%).\n\nIn the 2015 United Kingdom general election, the party nominated one candidate, Jim Lewthwaite in Bradford East. He won 210 votes, 0.5% of the total cast.\n\nIn the 2017 general election, the BDP did not field any candidates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26518916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26518916", "title": "Bruno Vogel", "text": "Bruno Vogel\n\nBruno Vogel (1898–1987) was a German pacifist and writer.\n\nBruno Vogel was born on September 29, 1898 in Leipzig. He spent his childhood in Bohemia. In 1916, he fought in the First World War, first on the border of the Austro-Hungarian empire, then in the Baltic, and in Flanders by 1917.\n\nIn 1922, he founded the gay group Gemeinschaft Wir (\"We the Community\") under the aegis of Magnus Hirschfeld. It was the local chapter in Leipzig of the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee, one of the largest gay groups in Germany from 1896 to 1933. In the mid-20s, after his parents put him out on the streets for being gay, he moved to Berlin, and he founded the Revolutionary Pacifists Group with Kurt Hiller. In 1928, he became a member of the Social Democratic Party, but soon left.\n\nIn 1938, he moved to Cape Town, South Africa with Otto Bohlmann. From 1942 to 1944, he worked in the South African Army. Later, he wrote for \"Forward\", \"Common Sense\" and \"Jewish Affairs\". In 1953, he moved to London, from where he was involved in the anti-apartheid movement.\n\nHe died on April 5, 1987 in London. His novel \"Alf\" from 1929 was first translated into English in 1992.\n\nIn August 2012 someone put Bruno Vogel's unpublished works, such as the novel \"Mashango\" and the short stories he had collected under the title \"Slegs vir Blankes\" (\"Only for Whites\"), on the Internet anonymously.<ref name=\"brunovogel.co.uk/index.htm\">https://web.archive.org/web/20150103220511/http://www.brunovogel.co.uk/index.htm</ref>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12150098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12150098", "title": "Carbon leakage", "text": "Carbon leakage\n\nCarbon leakage occurs when there is an increase in carbon dioxide emissions in one country as a result of an emissions reduction by a second country with a strict climate policy.\n\nCarbon leakage may occur for a number of reasons:\n\nThere is no consensus over the magnitude of long-term leakage effects. This is important for the problem of climate change.\n\nCarbon leakage is one type of spill-over effect. Spill-over effects can be positive or negative; for example, emission reductions policy might lead to technological developments that aid reductions outside of the policy area.\n\n\"Carbon leakage is defined as the increase in emissions outside the countries taking domestic mitigation action divided by the reduction in the emissions of these countries.\" It is expressed as a percentage, and can be greater or less than 100%.\n\nCarbon leakage may occur through changes in trading patterns, and that is sometimes measured as the balance of emissions embodied in trade (BEET).\n\nThe issue of carbon leakage can be interpreted from the perspective of the reliance of society on coal, oil, and \"backstop\" (less polluting) technologies, e.g., biomass. This is based on the theory of nonrenewable resources. The potential emissions from coal, oil and gas is limited by the supply of these nonrenewable resources. To a first approximation, the total emissions from oil and gas is fixed, and the total load of carbon in the atmosphere is determined by coal usage.\n\nA policy that sets a carbon tax only in developed countries might lead to leakage of emissions to developing countries. However, a negative leakage (i.e., leakage having the effect of reducing emissions) could also occur due to a lowering in demand and price for oil and gas. This might lead coal-rich countries to use less coal and more oil and gas, thus lowering their emissions. While this is of short-term benefit, it reduces the insurance provided by limiting the consumption of oil and gas. The insurance is against the possibility of delayed arrival of backstop technologies. If the arrival of backstop technologies is delayed, the replacement of coal by oil and gas might have no long-term benefit. If the backstop technology arrives earlier, then the issue of substitution becomes unimportant. In terms of climate policy, the issue of substitution means that long-term leakage needs to be considered, and not just short-term leakage.\n\nEstimates of leakage rates for action under the Kyoto Protocol ranged from 5 to 20% as a result of a loss in price competitiveness, but these leakage rates were viewed as being very uncertain. For energy-intensive industries, the beneficial effects of Annex I actions through technological development were viewed as possibly being substantial. This beneficial effect, however, had not been reliably quantified. On the empirical evidence they assessed, Barker \"et al\". (2007) concluded that the competitive losses of then-current mitigation actions, e.g., the EU ETS, were not significant.\n\nRecent North American emissions schemes such as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative and the Western Climate Initiative are looking at ways of measuring and equalising the price of energy 'imports' that enter their trading region\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13000456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13000456", "title": "Chief learning officer", "text": "Chief learning officer\n\nA chief learning officer (CLO) is the highest-ranking corporate officer in charge of learning management. CLOs may be experts in corporate or personal training, with degrees in education, instructional design, business or similar fields.\n\nQualified CLOs should be able to drive the corporate strategy and align the development of people with the business goals of the organization. A full complement of skills, including business analytics, technology, learning theory, performance consulting and scientific inquiry, are important for success. \n\nThe CLO may report directly to the CEO, but may also report to the Head of HR or Chief Talent Officer.\n\nIn the 1990s, Jack Welch, then CEO of GE, made Steve Kerr his CLO, making GE the first company to have such an officer. Kerr also became the CLO and Managing Director for Goldman Sachs\n\nIn 2012, Emma Cunis, executive director of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants spoke at a CLO summit held in Mumbai. Cunis was part of a panel that discussed the cost of not investing in executive learning and development. She quoted former General Electric CEO Jack Welch to make her case: \"The Jack Welch of the future cannot be like me. I spent my entire career in the United States. The next head of General Electric will be someone who spent time in Bombay, in Hong Kong, in Buenos Aires…. We have to send our best and brightest overseas and make sure they have the training that will allow them to be global leaders who will make GE flourish in the future.\"\n\nThere are four types of learning techniques that may be employed by CLOs (Elkeles & Phillips, 2007):\n\nMeasurement techniques refer to how CLOs measure learning outcome success. These may take several forms and can include standardized tests, one-to-one interviews and discussions with individuals receiving learning assistance, surveys and questionnaires, and measured competency at various tasks before and after the learning activity (Rani, 2004; Rauner & Maclean, 2008).\nThe aim of the use of these measurement techniques is to quantify the success of the learning activity. This allows the CLO to adapt learning activities in future to increase the level of successful outcomes (Jonassen et al., 2008).\n\nA wide variety of different technologies may be used by CLOs in order to meet their learning objectives. Popular technologies used include the use of computer software to deliver lessons and tests. Additionally, internet based learning may be used to provide learning at remote locations and enable students to engage with lessons remotely (Iskander, 2008; Facer, 2011).\n\nThe University of Pennsylvania has their own Doctoral Program under their Graduate School of Education called the PennCLO Executive Doctoral Program. It specially prepares the Chief Learning Officers and other senior-level Human Capital Executives for success in their role as learning and talent development leaders.\n\nThere is scant data when it comes to the CLO position, considering that the position has only existed since 1991. In terms of salary, Indeed.com reports that the average salary is roughly $81,000 per year, as of May 2015. According to a CLO survey conducted in April 2015, roughly 45% of CLOs are female, which is a remarkably strong number for female representation in the c-suite. As a comparison, just 3% of CEOs are female, according to Pricewaterhouse Coopers.\n\nThe chief learning officer often works alongside the CEO and collaborates on his or her vision for instituting learning and development initiatives throughout the company. Occasionally the CLO will work closely with the chief technology officer, because much of L&D involves technological advancement. The chief knowledge officer will also assist the CLO in disseminating knowledge for employees to learn and apply. The chief culture officer will assist the CLO with any culture-based programs or initiatives, though most companies do not have a CCO at the moment.\n\nAcademic and practitioner publications dealing exclusively with CLO roles and responsibilities:\n\nRelated publications:\n\n"}
{"id": "339995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339995", "title": "Christian Heritage Party of New Zealand", "text": "Christian Heritage Party of New Zealand\n\nThe Christian Heritage Party of New Zealand (CHP, known for a time simply as Christian Heritage New Zealand) was a New Zealand political party espousing Christian values and conservative views on social policy. Although it never won seats in an election, it came close to doing so in 1996 as part of the Christian Coalition and briefly had a member in Parliament.\n\nOn 3 October 2006, the Party said it would disband to allow \"new things to arise in Christian politics in New Zealand\". This came after a highly publicised scandal which resulted in its leader, Graham Capill, going to jail for committing sex crimes.\n\nAccording to Christian Heritage New Zealand's self-description, the party aimed \"to provide leadership that takes the initiative in building a culture that affirms marriage, strengthens families, and celebrates life as a precious gift of God. We believe these are the key issues that need to be addressed if we are to make an impact for the next generation.\"\n\nIt described its three key policies as \"Affirming Marriage, Building Families and Celebrating Life\", i.e. opposition to same-sex marriage and abortion and support of law and order.\n\nThe party espoused strongly conservative views on social policy. It favoured law changes to strengthen heterosexual marriage and to prevent same-sex marriage and civil unions. The CHP had an anti-abortion stance, but for most of its existence, the Party supported the re-introduction into New Zealand of capital punishment (abolished in 1989). Christian Heritage NZ supported restrictions on prostitution, as well as mandatory standards for television with a view to reducing violence and pornography.\n\nIn economic policy, Christian Heritage espoused moderately right-wing views, and stressed that \"economic policy cannot be viewed in isolation\" from social matters. In education the Party emphasised parental influence over the curriculum and parents' rights to choose the school their child attended. The Party supported victims' rights.\n\nCHP supported New Zealand's constitutional monarchy. In foreign affairs, the party supported New Zealand's alliance with Australia and a resumption of its alliance with the United States. From the New Zealand general election, 1999, the CHP supported New Zealand's anti-nuclear policy, whereas beforehand it had endorsed return to the ANZUS alliance, but not necessarily the return of nuclear-armed ships.\n\nCHP supported the Treaty of Waitangi and the work of the Waitangi Tribunal and urged settlement of Māori land claims and racial reconciliation.\n\nChristian Heritage NZ claimed broad-based support from members of various Protestant denominations and from the Roman Catholic Church, although many of its past members appeared to have held membership of the tiny Reformed Churches of New Zealand, composed largely of conservative Calvinist Dutch immigrants. The party had long required its members to publicly declare themselves as Christians. Some commentators criticised this rigid confessional policy for supposedly limiting the party's base.\n\nThe Christian Heritage Party of Canada was part of the inspiration behind the formation of New Zealand's Christian Heritage Party, and other influences also existed. Many of the party's founding members had Dutch ancestry and familiarity with the history of the Anti-Revolutionary Party, which functioned as an influential political party in Netherlands governments between 1888 and 1980, and many of the party's founding members belonged to the Reformed Churches of New Zealand.\n\nDirk Vanderpyl noted in his book \"Trust and Obey\" (1994) that many Reformed Churches of New Zealand members came from a narrow slice of Netherlands society, centred in Zeeland, Veluwe and Overijssel. In those Netherlands provinces, the Staatkundig Gereformeerde Partij (SGP or Political Reformed Party in English) had existed since 1922, and stood as a model for separatist Reformed fundamentalist political activism. The SGP differs from the Christian Heritage Party in that it restricts its membership to certain Reformed denominations, while Christian Heritage membership stood open to all evangelical Christians, although at first many of its office-holders had some association with the Reformed Churches. However, the SGP has only ever existed as a 'testimonial party'.\n\nAlso inspired by the Christian Heritage Party of Canada, the Christian Heritage Party of New Zealand emerged in 1989 to promote \"Biblical principles\" in politics, although the party's leadership generally claimed that its policies advantaged even non-Christians. Bill van Rij founded the party and became its first President; former National Party candidate John Allen became its initial leader.\n\nThe party's first convention took place in 1990 and established the group's structure. In 1991 the party confirmed Graham Capill, a Reformed Churches of New Zealand pastor, as its leader. During the 1990s, some non-Reformed evangelical Christians repeatedly complained that the CHP took too long to transcend this initial base.\n\nEighteen Christian Heritage candidates contested seats in the 1990 general election. The Party did not gain any seats, but did secure over 10,000 votes across the country. In 1992 the party's candidate, Clive Thomson, finished fourth in a by-election in the electorate of Tamaki.\n\nIn the 1993 elections the Christian Heritage party stood 97 candidates and polled 2.02% of the overall vote, making it easily the largest party outside parliament, a position the party retained in the 1996, 1999 and 2002 general elections.\n\nThe Christian Heritage Party supported the ultimately successful campaign to change New Zealand's electoral system from first-past-the-post to mixed-member proportional (MMP). (New Zealand endorsed MMP in 1993 and has used the system in general elections from 1996 onwards.)\n\nIn 1994, the Christian Heritage Party gained new competition when National Party MP Graeme Lee formed the Christian Democrats (originally named the \"United Progressives\"). Lee had originally considered joining Christian Heritage, but eventually declined because of the party's requirement that all members declare themselves Christians.\n\nLater, however, Christian Heritage and the Christian Democrats reached an agreement to contest the 1996 elections together. This resulted in the formation of the Christian Coalition, with Capill and Lee as its co-leaders. Lee held the first slot on the group's \"party list\", since he already had a seat in Parliament.\n\nShortly before the election, much speculation occurred as to whether the Christian Coalition would reach the \"five percent threshold\" necessary to gain proportional representation in New Zealand's MMP electoral system. If the party gained more than five percent of the vote, it would gain entitlement to a share of parliamentary seats equivalent to its support, expected to amount to five or six MPs. Although the Coalition polled as high as 6.7% in polls before the election, in the final tally the Coalition won only 4.4% support.\n\nIn May 1997 the Christian Coalition collapsed, with the two component parties going their separate ways. Debate continues on the causes of this breakdown. According to the Christian Heritage Party, the Christian Democrats left the alliance; but other accounts disagree (either blaming Christian Heritage or blaming both). Points of contention included the extent to which the coalition would admit non-Christians who shared compatible views – after the split, the Christian Democrats would conceal the explicitly religious nature of their party, which they eventually renamed \"Future New Zealand\".\n\nShortly afterwards, Bill van Rij left Christian Heritage and joined the Christian Democrats, blaming Capill for the collapse of the Coalition. A number of other senior Christian Heritage members, led by a former Deputy Leader, Geoff Hounsell, also resigned or suffered expulsion from the Party: they joined the Christian Democrats following their unsuccessful attempt to have Christian Heritage agree to a merger with the Christian Democrats.\n\nChristian Heritage stood Ewen McQueen as its candidate in the 1998 Taranaki-King Country by-election. McQueen outpolled candidates for the larger New Zealand First and Green parties.\n\nSix months before the 1999 elections, Frank Grover, leader of the Liberal Party, a component of the Alliance, defected to Christian Heritage, giving it one seat in Parliament. Grover had entered Parliament as an Alliance list MP. High-profile broadcaster Philip Sherry also joined the Christian Heritage Party in 1999 and stood in the number 2 position on the party list\n\nIn the 1999 general election, Christian Heritage gained 2.4% of the vote, well short of the 5% threshold for entering Parliament, although enough to make it easily the largest party outside parliament.\n\nIn the 2002 election, Christian Heritage had high hopes. It appointed Australian political consultant (now New South Wales assembly MP for the Liberal Party of Australia) David Elliott, who is prominent campaigner against Republicanism in Australia, as its campaign-manager. Party strategists hoped that by focusing on a single electorate, Wairarapa, CHP could gain entry to Parliament and bypass the 5% threshold-requirement. However, the result proved disappointing to supporters – the party itself gained only 1.35% of the vote, and its Wairarapa candidate, deputy-leader Merepeka Raukawa-Tait, came third in the Wairarapa poll. Christian Heritage's support defected to United Future New Zealand, a political party which had formed from the merger of Future New Zealand (a successor to the Christian Democrats) and Peter Dunne's United New Zealand Party in 2000.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2002 election, considerable tension existed between the party's central leadership and the Wairarapa branch. People alleged financial mismanagement against both sides, and Raukawa-Tait criticised Graham Capill's leadership of the party. Capill, in turn, criticised Raukawa-Tait, and rebuked her for her comments. Raukawa-Tait and the entire Wairarapa Electorate Committee eventually resigned.\n\nNot long after the 2002 election Capill announced his retirement as party leader and took up a job as a police prosecutor. When Capill's retirement came into effect in August 2003, the Party appointed Ewen McQueen to replace him. The Party also re-affirmed its determination to carry on contesting elections (rather than remove itself from the list of parties and become a pressure-group). In 2003 the party adopted the name \"Christian Heritage New Zealand\", or CHNZ, replacing the original \"Christian Heritage Party\", or CHP.\n\nIn November 2004 Graham Capill resigned from the Party, citing differences of opinion about the Party's direction such as the dropping of capital punishment.\n\nIn March 2005, newspapers reported that a \"prominent New Zealander\" was \"punched and left whimpering on the ground\" outside the Christchurch High Court, where he was defending sex charges. The papers could not name the man because of a court suppression-order. On 1 April 2005 the court lifted name-suppression and the press revealed the man as Graham Capill.\n\nCapill admitted the indecent assault of an eight-year-old girl on four occasions in 2001 and 2002, while he led Christian Heritage. Further charges of rape and indecent assault against girls aged under 12 (committed during the 1990s) followed.\n\nAs Capill had strongly condemned \"sexual perversion\" throughout his political career, the charges had a strong impact both on Capill and on Christian Heritage, which swiftly condemned his conduct. Newspaper-reports described Capill as \"a sexual predator\". Before sentencing, Capill emailed supporters asking that they pray for a light sentence and claiming the sex with one of the young girls as \"consensual\".\n\nIn the 2005 general elections, Christian Heritage saw its support collapse even further. The party stood only seven candidates, and only won 2,821 votes (out of more than 2 million cast) or 0.2 percent. It appears that much of its support bled over to National, United Future, and the newly formed Destiny New Zealand. The loss of support to Destiny proved somewhat surprising, since Destiny has its base in a Pentecostal organisation, the Destiny Church, and McQueen himself has Pentecostal affiliations.\n\nA campaign organised by the conservative Christian-influenced Maxim Institute called \"New Zealand Votes 2005\" may have become a factor in the Party's disappointing performance in the 2005 general election. The Maxim Institute portrayed the campaign as designed to inform voters. However, some commentators saw it as an ultimately successful attempt to persuade Christian voters not to vote for Christian Heritage New Zealand.\n\nAfter the election, controversy arose when former CHNZ Policy Director Mark Munroe defended Capill in a private email, arguing that his serial paedophile offenses did not fit the \"biblical definition of rape\". Ewen McQueen and the CHNZ Board pressured Munroe for his resignation, which ultimately occurred.\n\nCHNZ detailed the party's submission to Parliament's Electoral Law Select Committee in May 2006. The Party urged the reduction of MMP's five per-cent threshold for list party representation without electorate seats, and abolition of MMP's one seat/list representation rule, which allows parties that have an anchoring constituency seat to gain parliamentary representation without having to clear the five-percent threshold. Following a further review of MMP, the reduction of the 5% threshold to 4% and abolition of the one seat/list representation rule was recommended to parliament, which has to date not adopted the suggested changes.\n\nOn 3 October 2006, the Party announced that it would close down following a postal vote in which 97% of its members endorsed the move. Party leader Ewen McQueen said shutting down would allow a new Christian party to form. He blamed Capill's conviction and disgrace for the party's demise.\n\nThe main legacy of the party is the adoption by New Zealand of the mixed-member proportional representation electoral system, which the party supported. In addition the party was a catalyst for the formation of other niche religious or conservative political parties in New Zealand such as the Christian Democrat Party.\n\nAlthough the party has been disbanded, it has continued to appear sporadically in opinion polls as recently as April 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "210183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210183", "title": "Development economics", "text": "Development economics\n\nDevelopment economics is a branch of economics which deals with economic aspects of the development process in low income countries. Its focus is not only on methods of promoting economic development, economic growth and structural change but also on improving the potential for the mass of the population, for example, through health, education and workplace conditions, whether through public or private channels.\n\nDevelopment economics involves the creation of theories and methods that aid in the determination of policies and practices and can be implemented at either the domestic or international level. This may involve restructuring market incentives or using mathematical methods such as intertemporal optimization for project analysis, or it may involve a mixture of quantitative and qualitative methods.\n\nUnlike in many other fields of economics, approaches in development economics may incorporate social and political factors to devise particular plans. Also unlike many other fields of economics, there is no consensus on what students should know. Different approaches may consider the factors that contribute to economic convergence or non-convergence across households, regions, and countries.\n\nThe earliest Western theory of development economics was mercantilism, which developed in the 17th century, paralleling the rise of the nation state. Earlier theories had given little attention to development. For example, scholasticism, the dominant school of thought during medieval feudalism, emphasized reconciliation with Christian theology and ethics, rather than development. The 16th- and 17th-century School of Salamanca, credited as the earliest modern school of economics, likewise did not address development specifically.\n\nMajor European nations in the 17th and 18th century all adopted mercantilist ideals to varying degrees, the influence only ebbing with the 18th-century development of physiocrats in France and classical economics in Britain. Mercantilism held that a nation's prosperity depended on its supply of capital, represented by bullion (gold, silver, and trade value) held by the state. It emphasised the maintenance of a high positive trade balance (maximising exports and minimising imports) as a means of accumulating this bullion. To achieve a positive trade balance, protectionist measures such as tariffs and subsidies to home industries were advocated. Mercantilist development theory also advocated colonialism.\n\nTheorists most associated with mercantilism include Philipp von Hörnigk, who in his \"Austria Over All, If She Only Will\" of 1684 gave the only comprehensive statement of mercantilist theory, emphasizing production and an export-led economy. In France, mercantilist policy is most associated with 17th-century finance minister Jean-Baptiste Colbert, whose policies proved influential in later American development.\n\nMercantilist ideas continue in the theories of economic nationalism and neomercantilism.\n\nFollowing mercantilism was the related theory of economic nationalism, promulgated in the 19th century related to the development and industrialization of the United States and Germany, notably in the policies of the American System in America and the Zollverein (customs union) in Germany. A significant difference from mercantilism was the de-emphasis on colonies, in favor of a focus on domestic production.\n\nThe names most associated with 19th-century economic nationalism are the American Alexander Hamilton, the German-American Friedrich List, and the American Henry Clay. Hamilton's 1791 \"Report on Manufactures,\" his magnum opus, is the founding text of the American System, and drew from the mercantilist economies of Britain under Elizabeth I and France under Colbert. List's 1841 \"Das Nationale System der Politischen Ökonomie\" (translated into English as The National System of Political Economy), which emphasized stages of growth, proved influential in the US and Germany, and nationalist policies were pursued by politician Henry Clay, and later by Abraham Lincoln, under the influence of economist Henry Charles Carey.\n\nForms of economic nationalism and neomercantilism have also been key in Japan's development in the 19th and 20th centuries, and the more recent development of the Four Asian Tigers (Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan, and Singapore), and, most significantly, China.\n\nFollowing Brexit and the United States presidential election, 2016, some experts have argued a new kind of \"self-seeking capitalism\" popularly known as Trumponomics could have a considerable impact on cross-border investment flows and long-term capital allocation\n\nThe origins of modern development economics are often traced to the need for, and likely problems with the industrialization of eastern Europe in the aftermath of World War II. The key authors are Paul Rosenstein-Rodan, Kurt Mandelbaum, Ragnar Nurkse, and Sir Hans Wolfgang Singer. Only after the war did economists turn their concerns towards Asia, Africa and Latin America. At the heart of these studies, by authors such as Simon Kuznets and W. Arthur Lewis was an analysis of not only economic growth but also structural transformation.\n\nAn early theory of development economics, the linear-stages-of-growth model was first formulated in the 1950s by W. W. Rostow in \"The Stages of Growth: A Non-Communist Manifesto,\" following work of Marx and List. This theory modifies Marx's stages theory of development and focuses on the accelerated accumulation of capital, through the utilization of both domestic and international savings as a means of spurring investment, as the primary means of promoting economic growth and, thus, development. The linear-stages-of-growth model posits that there are a series of five consecutive stages of development which all countries must go through during the process of development. These stages are \"the traditional society, the pre-conditions for take-off, the take-off, the drive to maturity, and the age of high mass-consumption\" Simple versions of the Harrod–Domar model provide a mathematical illustration of the argument that improved capital investment leads to greater economic growth.\n\nSuch theories have been criticized for not recognizing that, while necessary, capital accumulation is not a sufficient condition for development. That is to say that this early and simplistic theory failed to account for political, social and institutional obstacles to development. Furthermore, this theory was developed in the early years of the Cold War and was largely derived from the successes of the Marshall Plan. This has led to the major criticism that the theory assumes that the conditions found in developing countries are the same as those found in post-WWII Europe.\n\nStructural-change theory deals with policies focused on changing the economic structures of developing countries from being composed primarily of subsistence agricultural practices to being a \"more modern, more urbanized, and more industrially diverse manufacturing and service economy.\" There are two major forms of structural-change theory: W. Lewis' \"two-sector surplus model\", which views agrarian societies as consisting of large amounts of surplus labor which can be utilized to spur the development of an urbanized industrial sector, and Hollis Chenery's \"patterns of development\" approach, which holds that different countries become wealthy via different trajectories. The \"pattern\" that a particular country will follow, in this framework, depends on its size and resources, and potentially other factors including its current income level and comparative advantages relative to other nations. Empirical analysis in this framework studies the \"sequential process through which the economic, industrial and institutional structure of an underdeveloped economy is transformed over time to permit new industries to replace traditional agriculture as the engine of economic growth.\"\n\nStructural-change approaches to development economics have faced criticism for their emphasis on urban development at the expense of rural development which can lead to a substantial rise in inequality between internal regions of a country. The two-sector surplus model, which was developed in the 1950s, has been further criticized for its underlying assumption that predominantly agrarian societies suffer from a surplus of labor. Actual empirical studies have shown that such labor surpluses are only seasonal and drawing such labor to urban areas can result in a collapse of the agricultural sector. The patterns of development approach has been criticized for lacking a theoretical framework.\n\nInternational dependence theories gained prominence in the 1970s as a reaction to the failure of earlier theories to lead to widespread successes in international development. Unlike earlier theories, international dependence theories have their origins in developing countries and view obstacles to development as being primarily external in nature, rather than internal. These theories view developing countries as being economically and politically dependent on more powerful, developed countries which have an interest in maintaining their dominant position. There are three different, major formulations of international dependence theory: neocolonial dependence theory, the false-paradigm model, and the dualistic-dependence model.\nThe first formulation of international dependence theory, neocolonial dependence theory, has its origins in Marxism and views the failure of many developing nations to undergo successful development as being the result of the historical development of the international capitalist system.\n\nFirst gaining prominence with the rise of several conservative governments in the developed world during the 1980s, neoclassical theories represent a radical shift away from International Dependence Theories. Neoclassical theories argue that governments should not intervene in the economy; in other words, these theories are claiming that an unobstructed free market is the best means of inducing rapid and successful development. Competitive free markets unrestrained by excessive government regulation are seen as being able to naturally ensure that the allocation of resources occurs with the greatest efficiency possible and the economic growth is raised and stabilized.\n\nIt is important to note that there are several different approaches within the realm of neoclassical theory, each with subtle, but important, differences in their views regarding the extent to which the market should be left unregulated. These different takes on neoclassical theory are the \"free market approach\", \"public-choice theory\", and the \"market-friendly approach\". Of the three, both the free-market approach and public-choice theory contend that the market should be totally free, meaning that any intervention by the government is necessarily bad. Public-choice theory is arguably the more radical of the two with its view, closely associated with libertarianism, that governments themselves are rarely good and therefore should be as minimal as possible.\n\nAcademic economists have given varied policy advice to governments of developing countries. See for example, Economy of Chile (Arnold Harberger), Economic history of Taiwan (Sho-Chieh Tsiang). Anne Krueger noted in 1996 that success and failure of policy recommendations worldwide had not consistently been incorporated into prevailing academic writings on trade and development.\n\nThe market-friendly approach, unlike the other two, is a more recent development and is often associated with the World Bank. This approach still advocates free markets but recognizes that there are many imperfections in the markets of many developing nations and thus argues that some government intervention is an effective means of fixing such imperfections.\n\nDevelopment economics also includes topics such as third world debt, and the functions of such organisations as the International Monetary Fund and World Bank. In fact, the majority of development economists are employed by, do consulting with, or receive funding from institutions like the IMF and the World Bank. Many such economists are interested in ways of promoting stable and sustainable growth in poor countries and areas, by promoting domestic self-reliance and education in some of the lowest income countries in the world. Where economic issues merge with social and political ones, it is referred to as development studies.\n\nA growing body of research has been emerging among development economists since the very late 20th century focusing on interactions between ethnic diversity and economic development, particularly at the level of the nation-state. While most research looks at empirical economics at both the macro and the micro level, this field of study has a particularly heavy sociological approach. The more conservative branch of research focuses on tests for causality in the relationship between different levels of ethnic diversity and economic performance, while a smaller and more radical branch argues for the role of neoliberal economics in enhancing or causing ethnic conflict. Moreover, comparing these two theoretical approaches brings the issue of endogeneity (endogenicity) into questions. This remains a highly contested and uncertain field of research, as well as politically sensitive, largely due to its possible policy implications.\n\nMuch discussion among researchers centers around defining and measuring two key but related variables: ethnicity and diversity. It is debated whether ethnicity should be defined by culture, language, or religion. While conflicts in Rwanda were largely along tribal lines, Nigeria's string of conflicts is thought to be – at least to some degree – religiously based. Some have proposed that, as the saliency of these different ethnic variables tends to vary over time and across geography, research methodologies should vary according to the context. Somalia provides an interesting example. Due to the fact that about 85% of its population defined themselves as Somali, Somalia was considered to be a rather ethnically-homogeneous nation. However, civil war caused ethnicity (or ethnic affiliation) to be redefined according to clan groups.\n\nThere is also much discussion in academia concerning the creation of an index for \"ethnic heterogeneity\". Several indices have been proposed in order to model ethnic diversity (with regards to conflict). Easterly and Levine have proposed an ethno-linguistic fractionalization index defined as FRAC or ELF defined by:\nwhere \"s\" is size of group \"i\" as a percentage of total population. The ELF index is a measure of the probability that two randomly chosen individuals belong to different ethno-linguistic groups. Other researchers have also applied this index to religious rather than ethno-linguistic groups. Though commonly used, Alesina and La Ferrara point out that the ELF index fails to account for the possibility that fewer large ethnic groups may result in greater inter-ethnic conflict than many small ethnic groups. More recently, researchers such as Montalvo and Reynal-Querol, have put forward the \"Q\" polarization index as a more appropriate measure of ethnic division. Based on a simplified adaptation of a polarization index developed by Esteban and Ray, the \"Q\" index is defined as \nwhere \"s\" once again represents the size of group \"i\" as a percentage of total population, and is intended to capture the social distance between existing ethnic groups within an area.\n\nEarly researchers, such as Jonathan Pool, considered a concept dating back to the account of the Tower of Babel: that linguistic unity may allow for higher levels of development. While pointing out obvious oversimplifications and the subjectivity of definitions and data collection, Pool suggested that we had yet to see a robust economy emerge from a nation with a high degree of linguistic diversity. In his research Pool used the \"size of the largest native-language community as a percentage of the population\" as his measure of linguistic diversity. Not much later, however, Horowitz pointed out that both highly diverse and highly homogeneous societies exhibit less conflict than those in between. Similarly, Collier and Hoeffler provided evidence that both highly homogenous and highly heterogeneous societies exhibit lower risk of civil war, while societies that are more polarized are at greater risk. As a matter of fact, their research suggests that a society with only two ethnic groups is about 50% more likely to experience civil war than either of the two extremes. Nonetheless, Mauro points out that ethno-linguistic fractionalization is positively correlated with corruption, which in turn is negatively correlated with economic growth. Moreover, in a study on economic growth in African countries, Easterly and Levine find that linguistic fractionalization plays a significant role in reducing national income growth and in explaining poor policies. In addition, empirical research in the U.S., at the municipal level, has revealed that ethnic fractionalization (based on race) may be correlated with poor fiscal management and lower investments in public goods. Finally, more recent research would propose that ethno-linguistic fractionalization is indeed negatively correlated with economic growth while more polarized societies exhibit greater public consumption, lower levels of investment and more frequent civil wars.\n\nIncreasingly, attention is being drawn to the role of economics in \"spawning\" or \"cultivating\" ethnic conflict. Critics of earlier development theories, mentioned above, point out that “ethnicity” and ethnic conflict cannot be treated as exogenous variables. There is a body of literature which discusses how economic growth and development, particularly in the context of a globalizing world characterized by free trade, appears to be leading to the extinction and homogenization of languages. Manuel Castells asserts that the \"widespread destructuring of organizations, delegitimation of institutions, fading away of major social movements, and ephemeral cultural expressions\" which characterize globalization lead to a renewed search for meaning; one that is based on identity rather than on practices. Barber and Lewis argue that culturally-based movements of resistance have emerged as a reaction to the threat of modernization (perceived or actual) and neoliberal development.\n\nOn a different note, Chua suggests that ethnic conflict often results from the envy of the majority toward a wealthy minority which has benefited from trade in a neoliberal world. She argues that conflict is likely to erupt through political manipulation and the vilification of the minority. Prasch points out that, as economic growth often occurs in tandem with increased inequality, ethnic or religious organizations may be seen as both assistance and an outlet for the disadvantaged. However, empirical research by Piazza argues that economics and unequal development have little to do with social unrest in the form of terrorism. Rather, \"more diverse societies, in terms of ethnic and religious demography, and political systems with large, complex, multiparty systems were more likely to experience terrorism than were more homogeneous states with few or no parties at the national level\".\n\nViolent conflict and economic development are deeply intertwined. Paul Collier describes how poor countries are more prone to civil conflict. The conflict lowers incomes catching countries in a \"conflict trap.\" Violent conflict destroys physical capital (equipment and infrastructure), diverts valuable resources to military spending, discourages investment and disrupts exchange.\n\nRecovery from civil conflict is very uncertain. Countries that maintain stability can experience a \"peace dividend,\" through the rapid re-accumulation of physical capital (investment flows back to the recovering country because of the high return). However, successful recovery depends on the quality of legal system and the protection of private property. Investment is more productive in countries with higher quality institutions. Firms that experienced a civil war were more sensitive to the quality of the legal system that firm similar firms that had never been exposed to conflict.\n\nPer capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP per head) is used by many developmental economists as an approximation of general national well-being. However, these measures are criticized as not measuring economic growth well enough, especially in countries where there is much economic activity that is not part of measured financial transactions (such as housekeeping and self-homebuilding), or where funding is not available for accurate measurements to be made publicly available for other economists to use in their studies (including private and institutional fraud, in some countries).\n\nEven though per-capita GDP as measured can make economic well-being appear smaller than it really is in some developing countries, the discrepancy could be still bigger in a developed country where people may perform outside of financial transactions an even higher-value service than housekeeping or homebuilding as gifts or in their own households, such as counseling, lifestyle coaching, a more valuable home décor service, and time management. Even free choice can be considered to add value to lifestyles without necessarily increasing the financial transaction amounts.\n\nMore recent theories of Human Development have begun to see beyond purely financial measures of development, for example with measures such as medical care available, education, equality, and political freedom. One measure used is the Genuine Progress Indicator, which relates strongly to theories of distributive justice. Actual knowledge about what creates growth is largely unproven; however recent advances in econometrics and more accurate measurements in many countries is creating new knowledge by compensating for the effects of variables to determine probable causes out of merely correlational statistics.\n\nThe most prominent contemporary development economist is perhaps the Nobel laureate, Amartya Sen.\n\nRecent theories revolve around questions about what variables or inputs correlate or affect economic growth the most: elementary, secondary, or higher education, government policy stability, tariffs and subsidies, fair court systems, available infrastructure, availability of medical care, prenatal care and clean water, ease of entry and exit into trade, and equality of income distribution (for example, as indicated by the Gini coefficient), and how to advise governments about macroeconomic policies, which include all policies that affect the economy.\nEducation enables countries to adapt the latest technology and creates an environment for new innovations.\n\nThe cause of limited growth and divergence in economic growth lies in the high rate of acceleration of technological change by a small number of developed countries. These countries' acceleration of technology was due to increased incentive structures for mass education which in turn created a framework for the population to create and adapt new innovations and methods. Furthermore, the content of their education was composed of secular schooling that resulted in higher productivity levels and modern economic growth.\n\nResearchers at the Overseas Development Institute also highlight the importance of using economic growth to improve the human condition, raising people out of poverty and achieving the Millennium Development Goals. Despite research showing almost no relation between growth and the achievement of the goals 2 to 7 and statistics showing that during periods of growth poverty levels in some cases have actually risen (e.g. Uganda grew by 2.5% annually between 2000–2003, yet poverty levels rose by 3.8%), researchers at the ODI suggest growth is necessary, but that it must be equitable. This concept of inclusive growth is shared even by key world leaders such as Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, who emphasises that:\nResearchers at the ODI thus emphasise the need to ensure social protection is extended to allow universal access and that active policy measures are introduced to encourage the private sector to create new jobs as the economy grows (as opposed to jobless growth) and seek to employ people from disadvantaged groups.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38725347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38725347", "title": "Dialogue for Hungary", "text": "Dialogue for Hungary\n\nDialogue for Hungary (, Párbeszéd) (also known in its shortened form Dialogue since September 2016), is a Hungarian green political party that was formed in February 2013 by eight MPs who left the Politics Can Be Different (LMP) party.\n\nThe LMP party had formed a coalition with the Together 2014 party; together, they won four seats in the national assembly and one seat in the European Parliament. Dialogue for Hungary has taken one seat from the four in the Hungarian parliament and has one representative in Brussels.\n\nOn 24 August 2016, spokesperson Bence Tordai announced that the shortened form of the party's name would change to \"Dialogue\". In September 2016, the party's logo was changed to Párbeszéd (Dialogue), instead of \"PM\".\n\nFor the Hungarian Parliament:\n\nFor the European Parliament:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54102657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54102657", "title": "Ed Forchion", "text": "Ed Forchion\n\nRobert Edward \"Ed\" Forchion, Jr. (born July 23, 1964), also known as NJWeedman, is an American Rastafari cannabis rights and free speech activist, frequent candidate for public office, actor, writer, and restaurateur.\n\nA resident of New Jersey and California, he is a registered medical cannabis user. He has been arrested and convicted for some of his activities and has mounted various legal defenses and challenges to laws regarding cannabis.\n\nAfter his last arrest the state of New Jersey filed a motion on March 7, 2017, for pretrial detention to incarcerate Forchion until trial. Forchion held a hunger strike for nearly two weeks while being held without bail, calling himself a political prisoner.\nThe trial began October 26, 2017. On November 8, the jury found him not guilty of one charge of second-degree witness tampering, and was hung on another charge in the third degree. In January 2018, he was again denied bail, pending a re-trial. His appeal to being denied bail and being released was denied in February 2018. In May 2018 in the 2nd trial he was acquitted by a jury of witness tampering. He had spent 447 days in jail.\n\nForchion was born in Camden, New Jersey, in 1964 and grew up in Sicklerville. He is a resident of Browns Mills in Pemberton Township, New Jersey. Forchion graduated from Edgewood Regional High School in 1982 and attended Claflin College (1983–1984). He was a member of the New Jersey National Guard (1982–1984) and United States Marine Corps (1986). Forchion also owned and operated a trucking business.\n\nForchion is Rastafari. In 2001, he was diagnosed with tumors in his knees and shoulders, which later become cancerous and uses medical cannabis. He is a registered medical cannabis user in California. Forchion is father of five children and is divorced.\n\nForchion uses the moniker NJWeedman. He has attempted to have his name legally changed to NJWeedman.com (his domain name), but was denied, first by the courts in New Jersey in 2004 and in another case in California in 2011, which cited, among other things, comity with NJ's ruling.\n\nForchion has been arrested several times and has mounted many legal challenges to his arrest and trials.\n\nForchion was arrested for \"intent to distribute\" on November 24, 1997 in Bellmawr, New Jersey. Forchion accepted a plea bargain for a 10-year state prison sentence in September 2000. In April 2002 he was released and admitted to New Jersey's intensive parole supervision program. State authorities claimed he violated terms of probation by filming several public service announcements advocating changes to New Jersey's drug laws and Forchion was held in jail. A federal judge later held that expulsion from the program and additional incarceration violated his free speech protections.\n\nIn 2010 Forchion was arrested in Mount Holly, New Jersey after a traffic stop. He was charged with possession with intent to distribute and convicted of possession and sentenced to two years probation and a $2,500 fine. However, the jury couldn't reach a verdict on intent to distribute. A separate trial was convened. and Forchion urged the jury to employ jury nullification to overturn an unjust law. The defense which proved effective and resulted in Forchion receiving a 12-0 verdict of acquittal. Despite this victory, his conviction for possession led Forchion to later be convicted for violating the terms of probation, a sentence for which the judge jailed him for nine months, and for which he lost his appeal. He was allowed out of custody intermittently to go to California for treatment of bone tumours (20 20-day periods of incarceration separated by 10-day periods of release). Forchion had a medical marijuana card from California and had argued that he was \"convicted and sentenced to 270 days in jail only for bringing his legally prescribed medicine into the State of New Jersey.\"\n\nIn 2012, federal agents in California raided his pot farm, confiscating the plants. The case was eventually dismissed.\n\nForchion was arrested April 15, 2013 in Evesham Township, New Jersey for possession. Forchion soon after published online his legal brief to the court (which contends that New Jersey laws on marijuana are contradictory) for use by others to fill-in and use in their own defense.\n\nForchion was arrested on various charges in Trenton in 2016. On March 3, 2017, Forchion was arrested and charged with second-degree witness tampering and third-degree witness tampering. He was ordered to be held without bail; his appeal for release was denied. Forchion was placed in pre-trial detention at the Mercer County Correction Center in Hopewell, New Jersey. Forchion began a hunger strike on June 12 and ending it June 27. In July 2017, Forchion made a motion to review his detention saying that his attorney had misrepresented him and that material evidence would clarify that his intentions would not qualitfy as witness tampering.\n\nForchion, in a petition for review has asked the New Jersey Supreme Court for a discretionary review stemming from his conviction. He asked; \"Should the holding in State v. Tate, 102 N.J. 64 (1986), barring the necessity defense for possession of marijuana for medical purposes, be modified or overruled?\", claiming that the ruling was outdated.\n\nOn March 8, 2016, Forchion and his lawyers filed a Petition for Writ of Certiorari to the U.S. Supreme Court (US Supreme Court Docket – 15-8533) with ten questions for review regarding race and religion as it relates to cannabis. The court declined.\n\nForchon established the Legalize Marijuana Party in 1998 and has run as its candidate in the following elections:\n\nForchion has opened two temples, named Liberty Bell Temple II and Liberty Bell Temple III, which have been connected to adjacent restaurant lounges. The names were inspired by the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia. In 1993, when the U.S. Congress passed the (42 U.S.C. § 2000bb(a)) Religious Freedom and Restoration Act which allows for the religious use of marijuana on federal grounds during the course of a religious ceremony, Forchion initiated \"smoke outs\" or \"smoke downs\" at the national monument.\n\nThe restaurant NJWeedman's Joint in Trenton, New Jersey opened in 2015. and in 2016 was raided by local police and Forchon was arrested. The matter is subject of further litigation. In February 2018, a judge dismissed 13 of 22 tickets for various violations, saying they were dispensed incorrectly.\n\nThe restaurant reopened in May 2017 and was renamed \"Weedbukx\". Starbucks informed Forchion and his partner that the logo for the new cafe was similar to theirs.\n\nForchion wrote \"Public Enemy #420\", published in 2010, and \"Politics of Pot, Jersey Style: The persecution prosecution of NJweedman\" in 2014. He has written for \"The Trentonian\". Forchion has appeared in various television programs and documentaries including a filming version of \"The Emperor Wears No Clothes\" (2009), \"How Weed Won the West\" by Kevin Booth (2010), \"1000 Ways to Die\": \"\" (2010), \"Supreme Court of Comedy: Tony Rock vs. Harland Williams\" (2010) and \"Million Mask Movement\" by Vinu Joseph (2016). He has spoken for various podcasts and radio programs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41554556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41554556", "title": "Edward Kwaku Utuka", "text": "Edward Kwaku Utuka\n\nEdward Kwaku Utuka, who held the rank of major general of the Ghana Armed Forces, was a former border guards commander and member of the Supreme Military Council I & II, the ruling government of Ghana from 9 October 1975 to 4 June 1979. He was an alumnus of the Accra Academy.\n\nHe was executed, along with former head-of-state Ignatius Acheampong on June 16, 1979, following a coup that deposed the government of Fred Akuffo.\n"}
{"id": "58573510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58573510", "title": "Ernst Roets", "text": "Ernst Roets\n\nErnst Roets is a political activist, writer and filmmaker in South Africa. He is Deputy CEO of the civil rights organisation AfriForum and the CEO of the film production company Forum Films.\n\nRoets grew up in the agricultural town of Tzaneen where he matriculated in 2003 from the Merensky High School. He obtained his LLB degree in 2009 from the University of Pretoria (UP). During his student years he served in various leadership structures, including the Student Representative Council (SRC) and the Senate, at this university.\n\nDuring his student years Roets served as founding member and the first National Chairperson of Solidarity Youth. In 2008 Solidarity Youth changed its name and the organisation was converted to AfriForum Youth. In 2016, Roets obtained his LLM degree in Public Law with distinction from the UP. The title of his dissertation was \"’n Peiling van die middele kragtens die Suid-Afrikaanse Grondwet, ter afdwinging van die basiese regte van minderheidsgemeenskappe\".\n\nRoets was arrested in 2010 after he attempted to install a billboard with the words “Welcome to Pretoria” next to the N1 highway. This action was in protest against the Tshwane Metropolitan Municipality’s use of the word “Tshwane” to refer to the capital during the 2010 Fifa Soccer World Cup, while the city’s name is in fact Pretoria.\n\nIn 2011 Roets was appointed as Deputy CEO of AfriForum. He testified on behalf of AfriForum in 2011 in the case of AfriForum vs. Malema. On behalf of AfriForum he submitted a charge of hate speech against Julius Malema after Malema sang the song “Dubula I’Bhunu” (Shoot the Boer) at various political gatherings. The court found Malema guilty of hate speech.\n\nRoets addressed various conferences of the United Nations (UN), especially on farm murders and the state of minority rights in South Africa. In 2015, at the UN’s offices in Genève, he reacted sharply to an accusation by the South African government that those who are asking for the prioritisation of farm murders only did so because they were steering a racial agenda and wanted to bring back apartheid. In the same year Roets submitted a complaint of discrimination against the South African government with the UN’s Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders after the South African government politically interfered at the UN to prevent AfriForum from registering as a non-government organisation at the UN.\n\nSince 2012 Roets has led AfriForum's campaign to raise awareness about farm attacks.\n\nTainted Heroes is a South African documentary film that was produced by Forum Films under direction of Elrich Yssel, with Roets and Beatrice Pretorius as producers. The film is about the violent battle of the African National Congress (ANC) against apartheid in South Africa between 1976 and 1994. The documentary is based on the book \"People’s War: New Light on the Struggle for South Africa\" by Anthea Jeffery. \n\nMax du Preez described the film as “crude” and “reckless”, but afterwards admitted that he hasn’t seen the film yet. The journalist Pieter du Toit said that Roets played with fire. Even though the ANC did not want to comment on the contents of the film, the party characterised it as propaganda..\n\nRoets is the author of the book \"Kill the Boer\" that was published in June 2018. \"Kill the Boer\" is about farm attacks in South Africa. In the book Roets argues that the South African government, due to a number of reasons, is complicit in the attacks. He characterises the events as ethnic cleansing. Roets argues that in 2017 South African farm attacks took place at an unusual frequency\" and that the killings \"were unusually cruel.\"\n"}
{"id": "27151449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27151449", "title": "Femen", "text": "Femen\n\nFemen (), stylized as FEMEN, is a Ukrainian radical feminist activist group intended to protect women's rights. The organization became internationally known for organizing controversial topless protests against sex tourism, religious institutions, sexism, homophobia, and other social, national, and international topics. Founded in Ukraine, the group is now based in Paris.\n\nThe organization describes itself as \"fighting patriarchy in its three manifestations – sexual exploitation of women, dictatorship and religion\" and has stated that its goal is \"sextremism serving to protect women's rights\". Femen activists have been regularly detained by police in response to their protests.\n\nAnna Hutsol is credited as having founded the Femen movement on 10 April 2008, after she became aware of stories of Ukrainian women duped into going abroad and then taken advantage of sexually. However, according to the 2013 documentary by Kitty Green, \"Ukraine Is Not a Brothel\", Femen was founded by Viktor Sviatsky. In September 2013 Inna Shevchenko responded to the documentary stating that Sviatsky \"did lead the movement some time ago. ...We accepted this because we did not know how to resist and fight it. ...This is when I decided to leave Ukraine for France to build a new Femen\". Femen member Inna Shevchenko discussed Sviatsky with \"The Independent\" in January, 2014, and, while not using the word 'founder' said: \"I will never deny that he is a smart person. He was the reason why we knew each other. He was one of those smart people around us at the beginning, who were more experienced\". Since 2013 Femen has been led by Inna Shevchenko. \n\nInitially, Femen gained attention by demonstrating in skimpy or erotic clothing. For example, on 21 September 2008 in front of the Turkish embassy, a dozen Femen members were dressed as nurses with smudged makeup and high pink heels; however, at the 24 August 2009 demonstration on Ukrainian independence day, Oksana Shachko went topless. Since this approach obtained such great publicity, it rapidly became FEMEN's signature approach. While most of the protests have been confined to bare breasts, in October 2010 Shachko exposed her buttocks outside a locked toilet in a demonstration to protest the lack of public toilets in Kiev, and four of the group members staged a similar protest in Kiev in February 2011.\n\nSince May 2011, a host of international news outlets have started to report about the organization's actions; this has sharply heightened FEMEN's international profile.\n\nFrom late 2011, the Ukrainian Femen activists started to hold more international protests. In December 2011, three Femen activists stated that the State Security Committee of the Republic of Belarus had abducted and terrorized them after they staged topless protests in Minsk. On 8 April 2013, five Femen members \"topless ambushed\" Russian President Vladimir Putin (accompanied by German Chancellor Angela Merkel) at the Hanover trade fair.\n\nAfter Inna Shevchenko chopped down a wooden cross overlooking Maidan Nezalezhnosti in Kiev on 17 August 2012, she stated that she had received several death threats and that her front door had been kicked in. Fearing arrest, she sought asylum in France and moved to Paris. There, in September 2012, she established a training facility for activists for Femen in France.\n\nIn late July 2013, one of the ideologists of the Femen, Viktor Sviatsky, and Hutsol were assaulted on the eve of a visit by Putin to Kiev to celebrate the 1,025th anniversary of the Christianization of Kievan Rus'. According to Hutsol, those who attacked them \"resemble those cooperating with secret services SBU and FSB\".\n\nOne of the founding members, Oksana Shachko, was found dead in Paris on 24 July, 2018; her death is believed to be a suicide. She was living as an independent artist separated from the group after disputes with other members.\n\nFemen has several international branches. The Femen office in their native Kiev was closed and the organization's leadership left Ukraine (\"Fearing for their lives and freedom\") in August 2013.\n\nIn October 2012, the organization stated it had about 40 activists in Ukraine, and another 100 who had joined their protests abroad, as well as twelve thousand followers via the social network Vkontakte.\n\nIn October 2013, Femen had its largest membership in France. In January 2013, Femen France counted 30 local activists. In 2010, the group comprised some 320 activists, with about 300 of the active participants being in Kiev. In a 2010 interview, Anna Hutsol said that in addition to 20 core organizers there are 300 activists in Kiev, as well as a social network based on vkontakte of about 20,000 persons. Female university students between 18 and 20 years old formed the backbone of the movement when it was formed in 2008, with few male members. In 2011, various sources stated that in an interview Anna Hutsol said that the movement has 150 thousand supporters. In October 2012, the organization said that it had about 40 activists in Ukraine, and another 100 who had joined their protests abroad.\n\nHutsol stated in July 2010: \"We are working better than any news agency. We have a photographer, cinematographer, designer and content manager.\" In Ukraine, most of FEMEN's demonstrations are staged in Kiev, but the organization has also held actions in cities like Odessa, Dnipropetrovsk, and Zaporizhia. In April 2010 the organization contemplated becoming a political party to run for seats in the October 2012 Ukrainian parliamentary election. However, it did not take part in these elections.\nFemen explained its methodology of topless protesting by saying: \"This is the only way to be heard in this country. If we staged simple protests with banners, then our claims would not have been noticed\". The organization plans to become the biggest and the most influential movement in Europe.\n\nFacebook initially blocked the Femen page because it suspected it was pornographic. In addition, Femen has displayed several provocative images on its Facebook page, including images of Femen activists taking a chainsaw to the heads of Vladimir Putin and Kirill I of Moscow, who were depicted covered in blood.\n\nIn 2010 and 2011, Ukrainian members had stated that their involvement in Femen had caused their families to become alienated from them. Some Femen members, including Inna Shevchenko, have also been subject to threats, kidnapping, beating and other intimidation.\n\nSeveral criminal cases have been opened against the organization in Ukraine on charges of \"hooliganism\" and \"desecration of state symbols\", among others, and the group has been fined. In addition, most Femen activists are detained by the police after protesting; in one case, the State Security Committee of the Republic of Belarus arrested Femen activists, \"threatening them with knives and cutting their hair\". According to Femen, after the early 2010 election of President Viktor Yanukovych, the Security Service of Ukraine attempted to intimidate the Femen activists.\n\nThe Ukrainian police opened a criminal case against Femen when during its 27 August 2013 raid in the movement's Kiev office it purportedly found a TT pistol and a grenade. Femen stated that these items were planted there by the Ukrainian police as part of a conspiracy by the Russian and Ukrainian secret services to prosecute the movement, which the police denied. On 30 August 2013, Femen activist Yana Zhdanova, Anna Hutsol and Alexandra Shevchenko were called in for questioning; instead (according to a Femen statement), \"fearing for their lives and freedom the activists escaped from Ukraine to Europe to continue Femen activities\" (also in Ukraine [as Hutsol had stated three days before she left Ukraine]). The Kiev office became a (not Femen-affiliated) bookstore on 23 October 2013. By early March, Hutsol said that although the regime that had criminally probed them had fallen, it was \"too risky to return to Ukraine\"; in a February 2014 interview, Hutsol also stated that Femen activists who had stayed in Ukraine had helped during the Euromaidan protests that ultimately toppled this regime. Femen actions did recur in Kiev in the summer of 2014.\n\nFemen protests have also been said to result in destruction of public property.\n\nFemen France is the French branch of Femen. After cutting down a crucifix near Maidan Nezalezhnosti in Kiev in August 2012, Inna Shevchenko left the country and went to Paris to set up Femen France, a training center for activists. The international training center opened on 18 September 2012.\n\nAs of early January 2013, the organization consisted of 30 local activists. The only Ukrainians regularly present were Oksana Shachko and Inna Shevchenko. On 6 March 2013, Femen activists, together with French writer Galia Ackerman, released their first book, \"Femen\". The book was published by Calmann-Lévy.\n\nThe international training center opened on 18 September 2012. 15 activists marched topless from the metro station Château Rouge to the Lavoir Moderne Parisien, where their new headquarters are located, and organized a press conference there.\n\nOn 3 October 2012, French activists Éloïse Bouton, Elvire Duvelle-Charles, Miyabi K., Julia Javel, Jenny Bah, Nathalie Vignes and Inna Shevchenko protested against rape by standing topless in front of the Venus de Milo statue in the Louvre Museum. The Femen activists shouted, \"We have hands to stop rape\". They stated they chose the Venus de Milo because it has no arms, arguing this best symbolizes a woman’s helplessness and vulnerability. This protest followed an incident in Tunisia where a woman faced charges of indecency after she said she was raped by police officers.\nOn 15 October 2012, eight topless activists protested in front of the French Ministry of Justice at the Place Vendôme in Paris in response to the verdict in the trial of fourteen men for the gang rape of teenage girls. After a four-week trial in Fontenay-sous-Bois near Paris, four of the accused were found guilty of taking part in gang rapes, ten were acquitted. The sentences were far lighter than those recommended by the state prosecutor, who had called for prison sentences of five to seven years for eight of the men. The protesters accused the French authorities of tolerating the rape of minors.\n\nFemen activists held protests in front of Great Mosque of Paris on 3 April 2013, to demand the release of Amina Tyler, a Femen activist in Tunisia. They also burned the Salafist flag. In September 2015 two topless Femen activists jumped onto the stage of a conservative Muslim conference in Paris.\n\nSince late 2011, Femen has held rallies outside Ukraine. In late April 2011, the organization said it was setting up international branches in Warsaw, Zürich, Rome, Tel Aviv, and Rio de Janeiro. A demonstration by a group called RU Femen in the Russian capital, Moscow, in late April 2011 was immediately denounced as a fake offspring of Femen. Femen accused the Russian political party United Russia of having set up RU Femen. Early in 2013, Femen said that it had members in Brazil, Germany, the U.S., Canada, Switzerland, Italy, Bulgaria, and Tunisia.\n\nOn 23 January 2013, a third national Femen-group was opened officially when Alexandra Shevchenko launched Femen in Germany proposing to train and lead the group from Berlin and Hamburg bases. The German branch of Femen was founded by Zana Ramadani. An action the group took was amid the opening of the Barbie Dream House in Berlin's Alexanderplatz. Right before the pink plastic building opened, a Femen member emerged topless from a model high-heel shoe burning a Barbie doll, in protest of what was widely seen as giving girls an unrealistic view of life. The Femen member had written on her chest LIFE IN PLASTIC IS NOT FANTASTIC.\n\nA Quebec-based Femen is also active, founded by Ukraine-born, Sept-Îles raised Xenia Chernyshova.\n\nOn 10 September 2013, the Belgium branch of Femen voluntary disbanded itself.\n\nA branch of Femen in Turkey, founded in late-2013 is also active.\n\nIn June 2014, Femen opened a branch in Israel with 15 women. Femen notes, \"our numbers are growing from week to week.\" The members, who range in age from 17 to 30, come from all over the country.\n\nIn August 2016, a branch of Femen launched in the United States of America, based in Seattle, Washington and led by Jordan Robson. To date, their most publicized action has been a protest held at the polling station used by Donald Trump in New York City on November 8, 2016. \n\nFemen describes its stance as \"radical feminism\", and says that it is \"fighting patriarchy in its three manifestations - sexual exploitation of women, dictatorship and religion\". Femen has pledged to fight the sex industry and marriage agencies, the Church and its pro-life beliefs and patriarchal society, as well as those who oppose gay marriage. Femen has expressed opposition against Islamism, \"Sharia law\" and spoken against the practice of female genital mutilation (FGM). On its official website Femen states: \"Femen – is sextremism serving to protect women's rights, democracy watchdogs attacking patriarchy, in all its forms: the dictatorship, the church, the sex industry\".\n\nFemen has expressed both support for and opposition against various public figures and organizations; for example, the group lauded Pussy Riot and collaborated with Aliaa Elmahdy. In 2011 the group stated that it had enjoyed limited success in pushing its agenda. It was also criticized for failure \"to provide much insight into what the concrete goals [of the organization] are\".\n\nFounder Anna Hutsol is adamantly opposed to legalizing prostitution in Ukraine and advocates for criminalization of prostitution abroad. In late May 2009, Femen proposed the introduction of criminal responsibility for the use of sex industry services. Femen protested against what they argued were moves being made by the Ukrainian government to legalize prostitution during the EURO 2012 championships. The group asked UEFA and the Ukrainian government to create a social program devoted to the problem of sex tourism and prostitution in Ukraine; to inform football fans that prostitution is illegal in Ukraine; and to take additional steps to fight against prostitution and sex tourism.\n\nDespite Femen's objection to the sex industry, the group has fought against the prosecution of Anastasia Grishay by Ukrainian authorities (initiated by a prominent Communist member of parliament) on grounds of her involvement in pornography.\n\nAccording to (founder) Hutsol \"The Femen movement stands for women-related policies, not women in politics\". FEMEN's leadership has very low expectations of all current mainstream Ukrainian politicians. When asked (in April 2013) if she considered German Chancellor Angela Merkel \"the enemy\" Alexandra Shevchenko replied: \"In so far as she shakes the hand of the dictator, yes; like Yulia Tymoshenko and like Margaret Thatcher before them, she has hardly spoken out for women's rights\".\n\nFemen has protested \"against the limitation of democratic liberties and freedom of the press\" during Viktor Yanukovich's presidency and against (Ukrainian) government corruption.\n\nFemen protest actions have also taken place against anti-Ukrainian policies by the Russian Orthodox Church and the Russian President and Government of Russia. It also demanded \"independence for the Ukrainian church\".\n\nIn 2012, Femen stated that its goals were \"to develop leadership, intellectual and moral qualities of young women in Ukraine\" and \"to build up the image of Ukraine, [a] country with great opportunities for women\". In 2010, the stated goals of the organization were \"to shake women in Ukraine, making them socially active; to organize in 2017 a women's revolution.\"\n\nIn December 2012 Femen \"warned\" the European Union \"to stop immediately political, economic and cultural contacts with Gazprom-Kremlin's dictatorship\"; because \"dependence on Nord Stream will bring Europe to an economic collapse and the abolition of visas requirements for Russians threatens Europe with a cultural Armageddon\". An 8 April 2013 \"topless ambush\" of Russian President Vladimir Putin (accompanied by German Chancellor Angela Merkel) at the Hanover trade fair was described by Alexandra Shevchenko as \"non-violent women protesting against the most dangerous dictator in the world, it got great coverage and will hopefully inspire people in Russia as well as helping us to recruit new members\".\n\nExamples of Femen protests against religious institutions are:\n\nAmina Tyler (real name Amina Sboui), a Tunisian Femen activist, was arrested on 19 May 2013 in Tunis. International protests followed for her release from detention. On 12 June 2013 a Tunisian judge convicted two French Femen members and one German Femen member after they were charged with public indecency while protesting for the release of Tyler. Pauline Hillier, Marguerite Stern and Josephine Markmann were released on 26 June 2013 after a Tunisian court lifted their prison sentence.\n\nAmina Tyler was acquitted for contempt and defamation on 29 July 2013; but she remained jailed pending trial on a separate charge of desecrating a cemetery.\n\nFemen had staged protests in front of the Grand Mosque of Paris burning a Tawhid flag. Amina upon release in August 2013 from detention in a Tunisian jail declared she was leaving the group in protest adding that she thought FEMEN's actions in Paris were disrespectful to the Muslim world and because she saw a lack of financial transparency in the organization.\n\nCritics have stated Femen members are more interested in self-promotion than real reform, and that their antics are often tacky and undermine the cause of their protests. According to Ukrainian gender studies expert Tetyana Bureychak, most Ukrainian women are unimpressed by Femen. Ukrainian sociologist Oleh Demkiv has spoken out against the controversial nature of FEMEN's protests and in July 2011 he stated they \"unfortunately, do not enjoy popular support, or lead to changes in Ukraine's consciousness\". In February 2013 Joanna Rohozinska (from National Endowment for Democracy) stated \"there is little evidence of any of Femen's protests having significant impact\" and she called FEMEN's decision to set up branches in outside Ukraine \"as disingenuous at best and, frankly, somewhat cowardly\". Positive remarks in Ukraine about Femen came from Maria Mayerchyk (of Lviv University), who has spoken about Femen, saying that they are a \"positive, radical and important phenomenon that is able to raise social issues\", and Larysa Kobelianska (UN-led women's rights program) said the group has succeeded in attracting public attention to women's problems, even if by questionable means.\n\nThe group is seen more positively abroad. Naomi Westland wrote that \"Western countries are more accustomed than those in the Eastern Hemisphere to seeing naked or semi-naked bodies in the media and on the streets. But in countries where nudity is taboo, the protests have more profound impact.\" Jeffrey Tayler noted: \"Femen originated in Ukraine, born of young women who grew up without exposure to the West's culture of political correctness and who have scant respect for it; from their country's Soviet past, they know how deleterious the stifling of free speech can be. Now that they have moved to the West, Femen has courageously broken rules and enlivened the debate over religion's role in our world.\" Femen received a positive reception after opening their location in Paris.\n\nIn September 2013 Femen came under criticism when the Australian documentary film-maker Kitty Green exposed a man named Victor Svyatski as the mastermind behind the group. Svyatski was previously known as only a consultant to the movement. \n\nFemen activists earn funding through the sale of products bearing the Femen logo. Femen also receives donations from individuals like Helmut Geier (also known as DJ under the alias DJ Hell), German businesswoman Beate Schober (who is currently residing in Ukraine), the American businessman Jed Sunden (founder of Ukrainian KP Media and former owner of Kyiv Post newspaper) and Ukrainian Canadians.\n\nIn March 2012 Ukrainian magazine \"Focus\" said that Femen activists receive royalties for foreign interviews and in the tabloids. In the magazine Anna Hutsol confirmed that a rally in Istanbul was sponsored by a Turkish company producing underwear.\n\nA Ukrainian 1+1 journalist, who claimed (in September 2012) to have infiltrated the organisation, says that its office in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev, costs the movement over $2,500 per month, on top of which each member’s salary was roughly $1,000 per month.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15843137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15843137", "title": "Film Award of the Council of Europe", "text": "Film Award of the Council of Europe\n\nThe Council of Europe Film Award (FACE) is presented at the Istanbul International Film Festival by the Council of Europe to the director whose entry to the festival raises public awareness and interest in human rights issues and promotes a better understanding of their significance.\n\nThe presentation of the FACE award is destined to honour an artistic or documentary film that raises the profile of human rights in accordance with the values of the Council of Europe and the principles it stands for: individual freedom, political liberty and the rule of law. The philosophy underlying the award's creation is the belief in the ability of film to transport its own message of human rights, tolerance and social inclusion to a wide audience. Cinema is not only an important expression of European culture, it is also a compass that can help to map out a route towards the Europe of the future – one that celebrates diversity and difference, that promotes equal opportunities for all its citizens, and that challenges abuse and intolerance.\n\nThe contribution winning the FACE award is selected by a jury from the entries in the \"Human Rights in Cinema\" section of the festival. This includes both documentaries and feature films investigating social change and individual dramas.\n\nThe FACE award consists of a sculpture in bronze (created by Freddy Ruhlman, entitled \"Spirale de l'élévation\") and a cash prize of 10000 €, which is offered in association with Eurimages, the Council of Europe fund for the co-production, distribution and exhibition of European cinematographic works.\n\nOn 17 April 2010, Maud de Boer-Buquicchio, Deputy Secretary General of the Council of Europe, presented the fourth Film Award of the Council of Europe (FACE) to Scandar Copti and Yaron Shani, during the closing ceremony of the 29th international film festival in Istanbul. \"The reason why we decided to team up with the prestigious Istanbul Film Festival is simple: while we believe that films cannot change the world, they can make us reflect and challenge us to change the world ourselves. This is all the more true when human rights are at stake,\" she emphasised.\n\nIn 2009, Maud de Boer-Buquicchio presented the third Film Award of the Council of Europe (FACE) to Marco Bechis on 18 April.\n\nThe 2008 Council of Europe Film Award was presented on April 19, by Maud de Boer-Buquicchio, Deputy Secretary General of the Council of Europe.\n\nOn 14 April 2007, the first Council of Europe Film Award was presented by Thomas Hammarberg, the Council of Europe Human Rights Commissioner, in the name of the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, Terry Davis. Since then, the FACE award has been established as an annual collaboration between the International Istanbul Film Festival and the Council of Europe.\n\nTurkey, a long-standing member of the 47 nation Council of Europe, has a long and proud tradition of film making. Between 1950 and 1970 it topped the league of the world’s most prolific film industries. Many of the films have reflected the changes in Turkish society, holding up a mirror to topics as diverse as domestic violence and the role of women, the problems of migration from the countryside and poverty in the cities. These films have served to boost inclusiveness and respect for human rights.\n\nAt the same time, Turkish film makers have suffered the same problems in recent years as their colleagues elsewhere; the drying up of funding, increased competition from the big players and the challenges of new technology. The Council of Europe manages Eurimages, the body that funds the co-production and distribution of films and fosters co-operation between professionals. It is also home to the European Audiovisual Observatory, the only centre of its kind to gather and circulate information on the audiovisual industry in Europe, including cinema, television and radio.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10744166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10744166", "title": "Food testing strips", "text": "Food testing strips\n\nFood testing strips are products that help determine whether or not food contains bacteria that can cause foodborne illness. These products can typically be used on food, water, and hard surfaces, and are often designed for quick and easy home and commercial use.\n\nCurrently, there are two categories of food testing strips on the market.\n\nOne type of food testing strip is an assay enzyme reactant test. This test requires the food testing strip to be dipped into a blended mixture of food or test samples, distilled water and a reagent. These strips are designed specifically to detect those strains of \"E.coli\" and \"Salmonella\" that are harmful to humans.\n\nA second type of food testing strip is a gram-negative swab, which is usually administered directly to the food itself. Gram-negative swabs generally work faster than enzyme reactant strips, but they differ in that the gram-negative swabs are designed to detect a broad group of organisms, not just those that can cause foodborne illness in humans.\n\nThe enzyme reactant test strips react when the buffer solution breaks the bacterial wall. This breach releases enzymes, which react upon contact to the enzyme test strips.\n\nThe gram-negative reactant activates when components of the gram-negative cell wall or specific enzymes are present, causing the swab itself to change color. This is not directly indicative of the presence or absence of human pathogen in the test sample. \n\nPeople are now working on new ways to enhance these pathogen strips with silk pills and new nano-fiber technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "12975964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12975964", "title": "Forum on Early Warning and Early Response", "text": "Forum on Early Warning and Early Response\n\nThe Forum on Early Warning and Early Response (FEWER) was established in 1997 as a non-profit organization in response to the Rwandan genocide in 1994. Focusing on conflict early warning, the brainchild of Kumar Rupesinghe, Howard Adelman, and Sharon Rusu, became a network of 35 organisations worldwide and catalysed the creation of early warning and response networks in the Caucasus (led by EAWARN/Russian Academy of Sciences), the Great Lakes region of Africa (led by the Africa Peace Forum), and west Africa (led by West Africa Network for Peacebuilding (WANEP).\n\nFEWER and its network members publish regular early warning reports from these regions, host strategic roundtables for integrated responses to conflict, and implemented a conflict-sensitive development research programme with Saferworld, International Alert, Africa Peace Forum, Consortium of Humanitarian Agencies, and Center for Conflict Resolution.\n\nThe FEWER Secretariat was first hosted by International Alert in London with funding from the Winston Foundation for World Peace and the Swedish Foreign Ministry. It then moved to independent premises on Brick Lane and was headed until May 2003 by David Nyheim, followed by Georg Frerks and Marcel Smits. In June 2004, the FEWER Board oversaw the closure of the London Secretariat and the decentralisation of early warning activities to FEWER's Moscow and Nairobi offices.\n\n"}
{"id": "7953706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7953706", "title": "Fund for Peace", "text": "Fund for Peace\n\nThe Fund for Peace is a US non-profit, non-governmental research and educational institution. Founded in 1957, FFP \"works to prevent violent conflict and promote sustainable security.\"\n\nThe Fund for Peace works towards sustainable security and development in failed states by focusing on conflict assessment and early warning, transnational threats, peacekeeping, and security and human rights. The Fund for Peace maintains programs in Nigeria, Uganda, Liberia, and works with private business in conflict zones to better secure the interests of businesses, local populations, and their governments.\n\nFFP publishes the annual Fragile States Index, used by researchers, educators, and governments across the world.\n\nThe Fund for Peace was founded in 1957 by Randolph Compton. The organization was created in the memory of Randolph Compton's youngest son, John Parker Compton, who was killed in World War II. At a young age, John Parker wrote an essay, discussing the effects of war and the need for human civilization to embrace other methods of conflict resolution. After John Parker's death, Compton created the Fund for Peace, an organization based on the ideals of justice, environment, peace, and population.\n\nThe Fragile States Index assesses the pressures experienced by nations based on social, economic, and political indicators such as demographic pressures, refugee flows, uneven economic development or severe economic decline, and human rights, among others.\n\nThe \"Failed States Index\" debuted in 2005 with a limited assessment of approximately 75 countries; this was expanded to 146 countries in 2006, and then to 177 countries the following year. South Sudan was added to the assessment in 2011. In 2014, The Fund for Peace announced that the ranking would be renamed \"\"Fragile\" States Index\", claiming that the controversial term 'failed' had \"[become] a distraction away from the point of the Index, which is to encourage discussions that support an increase in human security and improved livelihoods.\"\n\nThe Fragile States Index uses color-coded maps, tables, and a four level-ranking system (\"Alert,\" \"Warning,\" \"Moderate,\" \"Sustainable\") to determine the current conditions and negative potential in the future. All four nations on high \"Alert\" are a part of the African continent: Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo. At the \"Warning\" level were many Latin American or former Soviet nations, including Moldova, Russia, Belarus, Colombia, Bolivia, and Mexico. At \"Moderate\" were the United States and several European states, such as Latvia, Poland, Italy, and Spain. Only a few nations, such as the Scandinavian countries, Iceland, Ireland, Canada, Australia and New Zealand were rated as \"Sustainable.\"\n\nThe Fragile States Index is subject to criticism, in part, because it takes institutions and data to draw its conclusions, as opposed to the Human Development Index or other more telling signs. The FSI is checked against human analysis.\n\n\nUNLocK links global information technologies with local social networks for the benefits of stakeholders. FFP conducts workshops in the conflict-affected countries of Liberia, Uganda, and Nigeria, training local participants in the Conflict Assessment System Tool (CAST). They train others at the community level. Data collected from field reports by the participants are analyzed for signs of early-warning conflict. The aggregate data is privately disseminated back to the participants and used to resolve disputes, identify priority issues at the community level, and as a way to obtain more immediate early warning and conflict prevention information.\n\nWhile the recent elections in Nigeria were widely recognized as a major step forward in the difficult journey toward democracy, UNLocK Nigeria provided a ground-level view of challenges that remained, including incidents of ballot box snatching, vote-buying, abductions, and violence. This report focuses on the Niger Delta Region, with a particular emphasis on the Akwa Ibom and Rivers states.\n\nThe Center for the Study of Threat Convergence explores the linkages between fragile states, the proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction, and terrorism. \n\nCSTC performs ground research in the Black Sea/South Caucasus region, the Tri-border area of Latin American, East and the Horn of Africa, and Southeast Asia. It partners with regional and sub regional organizations like NATO, the EU, and the African Union.\n\nThe Center for the Study of Threat Convergence is funded by the MacArthur Foundation, the Ford Foundation, and the Ploughshares Fund.\n\nCreated in 1997, the Human Rights and Business Roundtable brings together businesses and human rights organizations to ensure compliance with international standards, particularly in regard to the conduct of security forces in and around industrial operations. It recognizes the challenges faced, particularly in the extractive industries, in balancing human rights and security. FFP works with various private companies in the oil, mining, agribusiness, renewable energy, and infrastructure sectors in both stable and conflict zones around the world. The Sustainable Development & Security program supports companies in their development of human rights and security policies, conflict and human rights assessments, community relations and stakeholder engagement, and monitoring and reporting mechanisms. FFP is a long-standing civil society participant of the Voluntary Principles on Security & Human Rights initiative, and currently serves on the initiative's Steering Committee and Board of Directors.\n\nFor conflict assessment, the Fund for Peace utilizes the Conflict Assessment System Tool (CAST). CAST was created in 1996 as a system of locating and analyzing potential conflicts in failed states. It works by incorporating \"theoretical rationale, a conceptual framework, quantitative and qualitative indicators...and a rating system for trend analysis. \" However, CAST may be criticized for putting too much emphasis on technology and equations, and not enough on the human analysis. Furthermore, CAST is a tool that remains static, despite the specific conflict at hand. Each case is unique, and CAST does not have the mathematical ability to assess the uniqueness and specific needs of varying failed states.\n\nFFP maintains relationships with the United States Marine Corps and the South Korean government, among others.\n\nAs the Fund for Peace works in regions prone to genocide, the organization developed a relationship with the Office of the Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide. The Special Adviser played a role in researching and delivering information to aid the Special Adviser in his responsibilities. The Special Adviser and the Fund for Peace were involved in researching human rights violations, sharing information and giving warnings to the Secretary General and the Security Council on matters of genocide, and making recommendations on courses of action.\n\nOriginally called the Regional Responses to Internal War Project, the program looks to shed light on regional organizations and their \"political will\" to maintain peaceful relations. The Peace and Stability Operations Project also serves to form relationships with actors in other sectors, such as scholars, research institutions, journalists, and experts. The Fund for Peace believes that, through these extended relationships, the international community can work together to maintain peace in typically violent areas. The Fund for Peace has been successful in advancing the international dialogue on peacekeeping by holding public meetings with international representatives, performing research missions in over thirty-five countries, and holding workshops. By collaborating with actors in other sectors, the Fund for Peace is able to gather the ideas and opinions of other experts and publish them in their issues of Reality Check: Diverse Voices on Internal Conflict.\n\nThe second initiative is the Use and Purpose of American Power. The goal of this initiative is to promote ongoing dialogue and debate on the role of the United States in the international arena. It does so by asking four questions:\nThe Use and Purpose of American Power also has three main components. The first is the National Dialogue forums. In 2008 and 2009, the Fund for Peace partnered up with local organizations, such as chambers of commerce and universities, across the country and organized \"'traveling town halls.'\" The purpose of these were to discuss topics relating to the presidential election, and the condition of the United States and its population. The format of the forums were designed to encourage participation and dialogue on behalf of Americans to actively and critically think about their role, their country's condition, and the government's responsibility. Throughout two years, the National Dialogue forums took place in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Mexico, Alabama, Idaho, Florida, and California.\n\nThe second component is the American Conversation. While the National Dialogue forums were designed to spark interest and discussion, the purpose of the American Conversation is an online discussion hosted by Google Groups to continue conversations that began at the National Dialogue forums. The American Conversation is an effort by the Fund for Peace to encourage ongoing critical thinking in the minds of Americans and their communities.\n\nThe third component of the Use and Purpose of American Power is the Final Report. The Final Report is a summary of the National Dialogue forums and the ideas and concepts presented at the forums. The Final Report, titled The Use and Purpose of American Power in the 21st Century highlights five main points:\n\nThe Fund for Peace's efforts in United States foreign policy is based on the fear of \"spillover\" and the influence and multiplication of failed states. The National Dialogue forums were sponsored by the Fund for Peace. The Final Report was funded by the Ford Foundation.\n\nAnother initiative to promote human rights is the Globalization and Human Rights Series. This consists of publications dedicated to discussing pertinent topics relating to human rights, the impact of failing states, and corruption. Four issues have been published since 2005 in an effort to continue to educate the industries and the public on the harmful effects of failing governments, and the need for the recognition of, and commitment to, human rights. Furthermore, the Fund for Peace is a supporter of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, which guides businesses who voluntarily participate on how to align their security practices with human rights considerations. The Voluntary Principles are important because of the potentially harmful impacts security practices can have when operating in a failed state or conflict zone, but also because the international community is putting increasing emphasis on the rights of individuals.\n\nThe Fund for Peace does not limit its partnerships to select sectors. The organization has collaborated with Georgetown University's Center for Peace and Security Studies and the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. Together, the three institutions developed a thesis on the increased participation of regional organizations and their member states in promoting peacekeeping.\n\nThe Fund for Peace partnered with the Centre for International Governance Innovation in 2007. From September 4–6, thirty participants from varying Middle Eastern countries, as well as Australia, the United States, and Canada, met in Istanbul, Turkey. The participants came from academia, international organizations, the Arab League, the United Nations, governments, and human rights organizations. The representatives were faced with the task of determining what steps should be taken to efficiently protect civilians. The conference promoted a sense of international unity by asking the representatives to leave aside their political ideologies and keep the welfare of human beings as their priority. The conference ended with the unanimous support of International Humanitarian Law and the Bosphorous Consensus.\n\nThe Fund for Peace has also partnered with Logos Technologies, the United States Institute of Peace, the United States Peacekeeping and Stability Operations Institute, the U.S. State Department Office of the Coordinator for Stabilization and Reconstruction, and the United States Army Corps of Engineers to create a metrics framework for peacekeeping. The project includes concepts from the book \"The Quest for Viable Peace\" with the theoretical approach of the Fund for Peace's CAST methodology. The organizations involved are interested in helping governments determine the outcome of Stabilization and Reconstruction Operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "3099269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3099269", "title": "George Sylvester Viereck", "text": "George Sylvester Viereck\n\nGeorge Sylvester Viereck (December 31, 1884 – March 18, 1962) was a German-American poet, writer, and pro-Nazi propagandist.\n\nGeorge Viereck was born in the Kingdom of Bavaria, to a German father and American-born mother. His father Louis, born out of wedlock to German actress Edwina Viereck, was reputed to be a son of Kaiser Wilhelm I. Another relative of the Hohenzollern family assumed legal paternity of the boy. In the 1870s, Louis Viereck joined the Marxist socialist movement. George Viereck began writing poetry when he was eleven. His heroes were Jesus Christ, Napoleon Bonaparte, and Oscar Wilde. In 1896, Louis Viereck emigrated to the United States; his U.S.-born wife Laura and their twelve-year-old son George followed in 1897.\n\nWhile still in college, in 1904, George Sylvester Viereck, with the help of literary critic Ludwig Lewisohn, published his first collection of poems. He graduated from the College of the City of New York in 1906. The next year his collection \"Nineveh and Other Poems\" (1907) won Viereck national fame. A number were written in the style of the Uranian male love poetry of the time. \n\"The Saturday Evening Post\" called Viereck \"the most widely-discussed young literary man in the United States today\".\n\nBetween 1907 and 1912, Viereck turned into a Germanophile. In 1908, he published the best-selling \"Confessions of a Barbarian\". Viereck lectured at the University of Berlin on American poetry in 1911. For his support of Germany and pacifism, Viereck was expelled from several social clubs and fraternal organizations, and had a falling out with a close friend, poet Blanche Shoemaker Wagstaff.\n\nDuring World War I he edited a German-sponsored weekly magazine, \"The Fatherland\" with a claimed circulation of 80,000.\nIn August 1918, a lynch mob stormed Viereck's house in Mount Vernon, forcing him to seek refuge in a New York City hotel. In 1919, shortly after the Great War, he was expelled from the Poetry Society of America.\n\nIn 1923, Viereck published a popular-science book entitled \"Rejuvenation: How Steinach Makes People Young\", which drew the attention of Sigmund Freud, who wrote Viereck asking if he would write a similar book about psychoanalysis. Viereck traveled to Vienna to interview Freud, and then went to Munich to interview Adolf Hitler. During the mid-1920s, Viereck went on several additional tours of Europe, interviewing Marshal Foch, Georges Clemenceau, George Bernard Shaw, Oswald Spengler, Benito Mussolini, Queen Elisabeth of the Belgians, Henry Ford, Albert Moll, Magnus Hirschfeld, and Albert Einstein. Viereck became close friends with Nikola Tesla. Tesla occasionally attended dinner parties held by Viereck and his wife. He dedicated his poem \"Fragments of Olympian Gossip\" to Viereck, a work in which Tesla ridiculed the scientific establishment of the day.\n\nViereck founded two publications, \"The International\" (of which the notorious poet and mage Aleister Crowley was a contributing editor for a time) and \"The Fatherland\", which argued the German cause during World War I. Viereck became a well-known supporter of National Socialism. In 1933, Viereck again met with Hitler, now Germany's leader, in Berlin, and in 1934, he gave a speech to twenty thousand \"Friends of the New Germany\" at New York's Madison Square Garden, in which he compared Hitler to Franklin Delano Roosevelt and told his audience to sympathize with National Socialism without being antisemites. His Jewish friends denounced him as \"George Swastika Viereck\", but he continued to promote National Socialism.\n\nIn 1941, he was indicted in the U.S. for a violation of the Foreign Agents Registration Act when he set up his publishing house, Flanders Hall, in Scotch Plains, New Jersey. He was convicted in 1942 for this failure to register with the U. S. Department of State as a National Socialist agent. He was imprisoned from 1942 to 1947.\n\nViereck's memoir of life in prison, \"Men Into Beasts\", was published as a paperback original by Fawcett Publications in 1952. The book is a general memoir of discomfort, loss of dignity, and brutality in prison life. The front matter and backcover text focuses on the situational homosexuality and male rape described in the book (witnessed, not experienced, by Viereck). The book, while a memoir, is thus the first original title of 1950s gay pulp fiction, an emerging genre in that decade.\n\nViereck also published a vampire novel, \"The House of the Vampire\" (1907), which is one of the first psychic vampire stories where a vampire feeds off more than just blood.\n\nHis son, Peter Viereck, was a historian, political writer and poet. A 2005 \"The New Yorker\" article discusses how the younger Viereck both rejected and was shaped by the ideologies of his father.\n\nThe poem \"Slaves\" published in the 1924 collection \"The Three Sphinxes and Other Poems\" inspired the title of the 1968 psychothriller \"Twisted Nerve\", and is quoted several times in the film:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39043368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39043368", "title": "Germ theory denialism", "text": "Germ theory denialism\n\nGerm theory denialism is the belief that germs do not cause infectious disease, and that the germ theory of disease is wrong. It usually involves arguing that Louis Pasteur's model of infectious disease was wrong, and that Antoine Béchamp's was right. In fact, its origins are rooted in Béchamp's empirically disproved (in the context of disease) theory of pleomorphism. Another obsolete variation is known as terrain theory and postulates that diseased tissue attracts germs rather than being caused by it.\n\nGerm theory denialism (GTD) is as old as germ theory itself beginning with the rivalry of Pasteur and Béchamp. Pasteur's work in preventing beverage contamination led him to discover that it was due to microorganisms and led him down the path to be the first scientist to show the theory was valid and popularize it in Europe. Although he was not the first to have the idea and scientists such as Girolamo Fracastoro (had the idea that fomites could harbor the seeds of contagion), Agostino Bassi (discovered the muscardine disease of silkworms was caused by a fungus that was named Beauveria bassiana), Friedrich Henle (developed the concepts of contagium vivum and contagium animatum), and others had earlier proposed ideas similar to germ theory.\n\nBéchamp strongly contested this view offering up a competing idea known as the pleomorphic theory of disease. This theory says that all life is based on forms that a certain class of organisms take during stages of their life-cycles and that germs are attracted to the environment of diseased tissue rather than being the cause of it. Proponents of this idea insist microbes that live in an organism go through the same stages of their development. According to Günther Enderlein they are as follows: Colloid — microbe (primitive phase), bacteria (middle phase), and fungus (end phase).\n\nEarlier non-germ theories, in addition to the earlier idea of miasma, focused on spontaneous generation - the idea that living matter could arise from non-living - and the terrain theory variation of Béchamp's ideas. Pasteur disproved spontaneous generation with a series of experiments in the 1870s. However, understanding the cause of a sickness does not always immediately lead to effective treatment of sickness and the great decline in mortality during the 19th century is mostly associated with improvement in hygiene and cleanliness. In fact, one of the first movements to deny the germ theory was the Sanitary Movement, and was nevertheless central in developing America's public health infrastructure. By providing clean water and sanitation there was less of an environment for pathogens to develop and mortality rates fell dramatically.\n\nGTD has significant overlap with chiropractic practice. Many chiropractors believe immunity to be a function of spine alignment and the brain's ability to communicate efficiently with the body and that it has little to nothing to do with external pathogens.\n\nA common thread among many alternative medicine proponents is opposition to vaccines and many use GTD to justify their claims. Germ theory deniers make many claims about the biological underpinnings of the theory and the historical record that are at odds with what is accepted by most modern scientists and historians. Another popular claim from the anti-vaccine community is that all diseases are caused by toxemia due to inadequate diet and health practices.\n\nHarriet Hall published an article in \"Skeptic\" where she describes her experience arguing with germ theory deniers.\n\nMembers of the medical community that are also skeptics, such as David Gorski and Steven Novella, point out that denying germ theory is counter to years of experiments and the prevailing opinion of most doctors and scientists.\n\n"}
{"id": "56672809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56672809", "title": "Glen Tomasetti", "text": "Glen Tomasetti\n\nGlenys Ann Tomasetti (1929 – 2003), known as Glen Tomasetti, was an Australian singer-songwriter, author and political activist. During the 1960s she appeared weekly on commercial television, performing satirical political songs. She became a household name in 1967 after refusing to pay a portion of her taxes in protest against Australia's involvement in the war in Vietnam. Although best known for her folk music and political activism, she was also an esteemed novelist and poet.\n\nGlen Tomasetti was born in Melbourne on 21 May 1929.\n\nTomasetti began performing as a singer-songwriter and guitarist in the late 1950s. In the early 1960s she organised folk music concerts at the Emerald Hill Theatre in South Melbourne, a centre of the 1960s Melbourne folk scene. Later in the 1960s she appeared weekly on Channel Seven TV, performing a topical political song after the general news broadcast.\n\nAustralia entered the war in Vietnam in 1962 in support of the USA, and in 1965 began sending conscripted servicemen to Vietnam. Tomasetti became involved in the Save Our Sons organisation, a group of women opposed to military conscription, and in December 1965 she helped to organise the \"Songs of Peace and Love\" protest concert at the Sidney Myer Music Bowl in Melbourne, described as \"the first major response of the folk scene\" to Australia's military involvement in Vietnam.\n\nIn 1967 Tomasetti was prosecuted after refusing to pay one sixth of her taxes on the grounds that one sixth of the federal budget was funding Australia's military presence in Vietnam. In court she argued that Australia's participation in the Vietnam War violated its international legal obligations as a member of the United Nations. Public figures such as Joan Baez had made similar protests in the USA, but Tomasetti's prosecution was \"believed to be the first case of its kind in Australia\", according to a contemporary news report. Tomasetti was eventually ordered to pay the unpaid taxes.\n\nMany of Tomasetti's songs dealt with feminism and the situation of Australian women. Perhaps the best known is \"Don't be too polite, girls\", a call for equal pay and a feminist call to arms. Sung to the tune of a classic 19th century Australian shearing ballad (\"All among the wool, boys\"), it was inspired by the first ruling on equal pay in Australia, a 1969 Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration ruling that granted equal pay to only 18% of Australian women. The song was still being sung by the Melbourne Trade Union Choir at the time of Tomasetti's death in 2003.\n\nIn 1967 Tomaestti organised the first poetry readings at La Mama Theatre in Carlton, Melbourne, a program that continues today.\n\nShe published her first novel, \"Thoroughly Decent People\", in 1976. It was the first book published by the notable independent Australian publishing house McPhee Gribble. The poet and literary scholar Chris Wallace-Crabb described it as \"one of the break-through novels in portraying ordinary suburban life without a supercilious sneer\". She later published poems and another novel, \"Man of Letters\".\n\nGlen Tomasetti had three children.\n\n\"Thoroughly Decent People: An Australian Folktale\" (1976) \n\n\"Man of Letters: A Romance\" (1981) \n\n"}
{"id": "32759848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32759848", "title": "Graduate real estate programs outside the United States", "text": "Graduate real estate programs outside the United States\n\nThe following are programs that are offered outside the US. Currently there are no rankings of master's degree programs in real estate. The best method to evaluate the various degree programs is through due diligence by individual applicants, including a review of each program's curriculum and how it applies to the students academic and career goals.\n\n"}
{"id": "545529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=545529", "title": "Grameen Bank", "text": "Grameen Bank\n\nGrameen Bank () is a microfinance organisation and community development bank founded in Bangladesh. It makes small loans (known as microcredit or \"grameencredit\") to the impoverished without requiring collateral.\n\nGrameen Bank originated in 1976, in the work of Professor Muhammad Yunus at University of Chittagong, who launched a research project to study how to design a credit delivery system to provide banking services to the rural poor. In October 1983 the Grameen Bank was authorised by national legislation to operate as an independent bank.\n\nThe bank grew significantly between 2003 and 2007. As of January 2011, the total borrowers of the bank number 8.4 million, and 97% of those are women. In 1998 the Bank's \"Low-cost Housing Program\" won a World Habitat Award. In 2006, the bank and its founder, Muhammad Yunus, were jointly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nMuhammad Yunus was inspired during the Bangladesh famine of 1974 to make a small loan of US$27 to a group of 42 families as start-up money so that they could make items for sale, without the burdens of high interest under predatory lending. Yunus believed that making such loans available to a larger population could stimulate businesses and reduce the widespread rural poverty in Bangladesh.\n\nYunus developed the principles of the Grameen Bank from his research and experience. \"Grameen Bank\" is Bengali for \"Rural\" or \"Village\" Bank. He began to expand microcredit as a research project together with the Rural Economics Project at Bangladesh's University of Chittagong to test his method for providing credit and banking services to the rural poor. In 1976, the village of Jobra and other villages near the University of Chittagong became the first areas eligible for service from Grameen Bank. Proving successful, the Bank project, with support from Bangladesh Bank, was extended in 1979 to the Tangail District (to the north of the capital, Dhaka). The bank's success continued and its services were extended to other districts of Bangladesh.\n\nBy a Bangladeshi government ordinance on 2 October 1983, the project was authorised and established as an independent bank. Bankers Ron Grzywinski and Mary Houghton of ShoreBank, a community development bank in Chicago, helped Yunus with the official incorporation of the bank under a grant from the Ford Foundation. The bank's repayment rate suffered from the economic disruption following the 1998 flood in Bangladesh, but it recovered in the subsequent years. By the beginning of 2005, the bank had loaned over USD 4.7 billion and by the end of 2008, USD 7.6 billion to the poor.\n\nIn 2011, the Bangladesh Government forced Yunus to resign from Grameen Bank, saying that at age 72, he was years beyond the legal limit for the position.\n\nAs of 2017, the Bank had about 2,600 branches and nine million borrowers, with a repayment rate of 99.6%. 97% of the borrowers were women. The Bank has been active in 97% of the villages of Bangladesh. Its success has inspired similar projects in more than 40 countries around the world, including a World Bank initiative to finance Grameen-type schemes.\n\nGrameen Bank is now expanding into wealthy countries, as well. As of 2017, Grameen America had 19 branches in eleven US cities. Its nearly 100,000 borrowers were all women.\n\nThe bank has gained its funding from different sources, and the main contributors have shifted over time. In the initial years, donor agencies used to provide the bulk of capital at low rates. By the mid-1990s, the bank started to get most of its funding from the central bank of Bangladesh. More recently, Grameen has started bond sales as a source of finance. The bonds are implicitly subsidised, as they are guaranteed by the Government of Bangladesh, and still they are sold above the bank rate. In 2013, Bangladesh parliament passed 'Grameen Bank Act' which replaces the Grameen Bank Ordinance, 1983, authorising the government to make rules for any aspect of the running of the bank.\n\nGrameen Bank is founded on the principle that loans are better than charity to interrupt poverty: they offer people the opportunity to take initiatives in business or agriculture, which provide earnings and enable them to pay off the debt.\n\nThe bank is founded on the belief that people have endless potential, and unleashing their creativity and initiative helps them end poverty.\nGrameen has offered credit to classes of people formerly underserved: the poor, women, illiterate, and unemployed people. Access to credit is based on reasonable terms, such as the group lending system and weekly-instalment payments, with reasonably long terms of loans, enabling the poor to build on their existing skills to earn better income in each cycle of loans.\n\nGrameen's objective has been to promote financial independence among the poor. Yunus encourages all borrowers to become savers, so that their local capital can be converted into new loans to others. Since 1995, Grameen has funded 90 percent of its loans with interest income and deposits collected, aligning the interests of its new borrowers and depositor-shareholders. Grameen converts deposits made in villages into loans for the more needy in the villages (Yunus and Jolis 1998).\n\nIt targets the poorest of the poor, with a particular emphasis on women, who receive 95 percent of the bank's loans. Women traditionally had less access to financial alternatives of ordinary credit lines and incomes. They were seen to have an inequitable share of power in household decision making. Yunus and others have found that lending to women generates considerable secondary effects, including empowerment of a marginalised segment of society (Yunus and Jolis 1998), who share betterment of income with their children, unlike many men. Yunus claims that in 2004, women still have difficulty getting loans; they comprise less than 1 percent of borrowers from commercial banks (Yunus 2004). The interest rates charged by microfinance institutes including Grameen Bank is high compared to that of traditional banks; Grameen's interest (reducing balance basis) on its main credit product is about 20%.\n\nGrameen has diversified the types of loans it makes. It supports hand-powered wells and loans to support the enterprises of Grameen members' immediate relatives. It has found that seasonal agricultural loans and lease-to-own agreements for equipment and livestock help the poor establish better agriculture. The bank has set a new goal: to make each of its branch locations free of poverty, as defined by benchmarks such as having adequate food and access to clean water and latrines.\n\nGrameen Bank is best known for its system of solidarity lending. The Bank also incorporates a set of values embodied in Bangladesh by the \"Sixteen Decisions\". At every branch of Grameen Bank, the borrowers recite these Decisions and vow to follow them. As a result of the Sixteen Decisions, Grameen borrowers have been encouraged to adopt positive social habits. One such habit includes educating children by sending them to school. Since the Grameen Bank embraced the Sixteen Decisions, almost all Grameen borrowers have their school-age children enrolled in regular classes. This in turn helps bring about social change, and educate the next generation.\n\nSolidarity lending is a cornerstone of microcredit, and the system is now used in more than 43 countries. Although each borrower must belong to a five-member group, the group is not required to give any guarantee for a loan to its members. Repayment responsibility rests solely on the individual borrower. The group and the centre oversee that everyone behaves responsibly and none gets into a repayment problem. No formal joint liability exists, i.e. group members are not obliged to pay on behalf of a defaulting member. But, in practice the group members often contribute the defaulted amount with an intention to collect the money from the defaulted member at a later time. Such behaviour is encouraged because Grameen does not extend further credit to a group in which a member defaults.\n\nNo legal instrument (i.e. no written contract) is made between Grameen Bank and its borrowers; the system works based on trust. To supplement the lending, Grameen Bank requires the borrowing members to save very small amounts regularly in a number of funds, designated for emergency, the group, etc. These savings help serve as an insurance against contingencies.\n\nIn a country in which few women may take out loans from large commercial banks, Grameen has focused on women borrowers; 97% of its members are women. While a World Bank study has concluded that women's access to microcredit empowers them through greater access to resources and control over decision making, some other economists argue that the relationship between microcredit and women-empowerment is less straightforward.\n\nIn other areas, Grameen has had very high payback rates—over 98 percent. However, according to the \"Wall Street Journal\", in 2001 a fifth of the bank's loans were more than a year overdue. Grameen says that more than half of its borrowers in Bangladesh (close to 50 million) have risen out of acute poverty thanks to their loan, as measured by such standards as having all children of school age in school, all household members eating three meals a day, a sanitary toilet, a rainproof house, clean drinking water, and the ability to repay a 300 taka-a-week (around 4 USD) loan.\n\nThe bank is also engaged in social business and entrepreneurship fields. In 2009, the Grameen Creative Lab collaborated with the Yunus Centre to create the Global Social Business Summit. The meeting has become the main platform for social businesses worldwide to foster discussions, actions and collaborations to develop effective solutions to the most pressing problems plaguing the world.\n\nThe bank has diversified among different applications of microcredit. In the Village Phone program, women entrepreneurs can start businesses to provide wireless payphone service in rural areas. This program earned the bank the 2004 Petersburg Prize worth EUR 100,000, for its contribution of Technology to Development. In the press release announcing the prize, the Development Gateway Foundation noted that through this program:\n\n...Grameen has created a new class of women entrepreneurs who have raised themselves from poverty. Moreover, it has improved the livelihoods of farmers and others who are provided access to critical market information and lifeline communications previously unattainable in some 28,000 villages of Bangladesh. More than 55,000 phones are currently in operation, with more than 80 million people benefiting from access to market information, news from relatives, and more.\n\nIn 2003, Grameen Bank started a new program, different from its traditional group-based lending, exclusively targeted to the beggars in Bangladesh. This program is focused on distributing small loans to beggars. The loans are completely interest-free, the repayment period can be arbitrarily long, and the borrower is covered under life insurance free of cost. For example, a beggar taking a small loan of around 100 taka (about US$1.50) may pay back only 2.00 taka (about 3.4 US cents) per week.\n\nIn 1984, Grameen applied to the Central Bank for help setting up a housing loan program for its borrowers. Their application was rejected on the grounds that the $125 suggested loan could not possibly build a suitable living structure. So Grameen instead proposed the idea of \"shelter loans\". They were again rejected, this time on the grounds that their borrowers could not afford non-income generating loans. Grameen changed tactics and applied a third time, this time to make \"factory loans\", the explanation being that borrowers worked from home, so the home was also a factory that made it possible for borrowers to earn income. Grameen was rejected for a third time.\n\nAfter this third rejection, Yunus, the bank's founder, met personally with the Central Bank governor to plead for their application. When asked if he thought the borrowers would repay the loans, he replied, \"Yes, they will. They do. Unlike the rich, the poor cannot risk not repaying. This is the only chance they have.\" Grameen was then allowed to add housing loans to their range of services.\n\nAs of 1999, Grameen has made housing loans totalling $190 million to build over 560,000 homes with near-perfect repayment. By 1989, their average housing loan had grown to $300. That year, the Grameen housing program received the Aga Khan International Award for Architecture.\n\nWhen Muhammad Yunus took the first steps toward establishing Grameen Bank in Bangladesh and began to provide micro-credit loans to those living in abject poverty in the rural area surrounding Jobra, he adopted and maintained two basic premises. First, that credit is a human right; second, that the poor are those who know best how to better their own situation.\n\nIn his book Banker to the Poor: Micro-lending and the Battle Against World Poverty, Muhammad Yunus shows the outlook behind why Grameen Bank runs the way it does, saying, “ When you hold the world in your palm and inspect it only from a birds eye view, you tend to become arrogant, you do not realize things become blurred when viewed from an enormous distance. I opted instead for the” worms eye view.” … The poor taught me an entirely new economics. I learned about the problems they face from their own perspective. “ Here we see his willingness to immerse himself with the people he is aiming to help. We get our first look at Muhammad Yunus's perception of the absolute poor when he meets Sufiya Begum, a bamboo stool maker who was trapped in poverty's vicious cycle due to a lack of 27 cents. That is where we find that what will become Grameen bank, is founded upon one man's heart for those that society and big corporations could or would not help. Taking productive action, Yunus worked with the banks and community around to empower people like Sufiya to be able to apply for credit, and use it in the best and most productive way that she knows how in her unique situation. Grameen Bank would need to be a bank of unusual standards. It would have to be, as Yunus put it, \"an institution that would lend to those that had nothing. \" Later, as time progressed, more situations would arise, such as battling for those who were landless, or small-time farmers such as those in Jobra who could not use a deep tube-well that was available to them.\n\nAs Grameen bank has developed and expanded in the years since its beginning, it continues to operate on those same two principles. Today, Grameen bank still assumes that when individuals are provided credit, they will be able to initiate upward social mobility for themselves through entrepreneurial endeavours. As a result, Grameen differs from many other social justice efforts in that it does not include intensive rehabilitation training programs for the disadvantaged persons it serves. Instead, Grameen gives its borrowers freedom to pursue a better future using the skills they already possess in the best way they can with membership in a five-person support group being the only requirement.\n\nThe Grameen Bank encourages its members to create a positive impact by becoming actively involved in the politics of their country. According to Muhammad Yunus's book, Banker to the Poor, Yunus commissioned his bank staff to encourage Grameen borrowers to vote; however, the staff were not to influence the voters' decisions on which political party to support. While all Grameen groups are required to exhibit a form of democracy (such as electing a chairperson and secretary), the Grameen staff were surprised to find that borrowers were thrilled with the opportunity to display their voting rights as citizens of Bangladesh in the 1991 national election. The work of the Grameen staff initiated a sharp increase in political activity which continued into the 1992, 1996, and 1997 elections. Since the Grameen Bank caters to women, the 1996 elections received more women voting than men, which led to the removal of political parties opposing women's rights. Not only did more women participate in political activism, but over 1,750 Grameen members, 268 male and 1,485 female, were elected to local offices in 1997.\n\nIn an interview with PBS in 2006, (after sixteen years of experience with Grameen Bank as a social business) Yunus expressed satisfaction in the micro-credit system of Grameen bank as a motivation and an opportunity for the poor to improve their own situations. He stressed that he has observed that Grameen's borrowers attain a sense of confidence and self-sufficiency when they pay back their loans from Grameen bank. While being careful not to criticise charity's rightful place, he added that the recipient of a charitable gift does not experience these long-term emotional benefits in the same way.\n\nGrameen Bank is owned by the borrowers of the bank, most of whom are poor women. Of the total equity of the bank, the borrowers own 94%, and the remaining 6% is owned by the Bangladesh government.\n\nThe bank grew significantly between 2003 and 2007. As of January 2011, the total borrowers of the bank number 8.4 million, and 97% of those are women.\nThe number of borrowers has more than doubled since 2003, when the bank had 3.12 million members. Similar growth can be observed in the number of villages covered. As of October 2007, the Bank has a staff of more than 24,703 employees; its 2,468 branches provide services to 80,257 villages, up from the 43,681 villages covered in 2003.\n\nThe bank has distributed BDT 1.437 trillion (USD 20.92 billion) in loans, out of which BDT 1.317 trillion (USD 19.02 billion) has been repaid. The bank claims a loan recovery rate of 96.67%, up from the 95% recovery rate claimed in 1998. David Roodman has critiqued the accounting practices that Grameen used to determine this rate.\n\nThe global number of potential micro-borrowers is estimated to be 1 billion, with a total loan demand of $250 billion. The present microfinance model is serving 100 million people with $25 billion of loans. The Grameen Bank is 95% owned by the local poor and 5% by the government.\n\nThe Grameen Bank staff often work in difficult conditions. Employees receive 6 months of on-the-job training while shadowing qualified and experienced individuals from various branches of Grameen. The goal of this training is for the trainee to \"appreciate the unexplored potential of the destitute\" and to discover new ways to solve problems that arise within the Grameen branch. After completing the 6-month period, trainees return to Dhaka headquarters for review and critique before appointment to a bank branch.\n\nFrom modest beginnings three decades ago, Yunus has, first and foremost through Grameen Bank, developed micro-credit into an ever more important instrument in the struggle against poverty. Grameen Bank has been a source of ideas and models for the many institutions in the field of micro-credit that have sprung up around the world.\n\nOn December 10, 2006, Mosammat Taslima Begum, who used her first 16-euro (20-dollar) loan from the bank in 1992 to buy a goat and subsequently became a successful entrepreneur and one of the elected board members of the bank, accepted the Nobel Prize on behalf of Grameen Bank's investors and borrowers at the prize awarding ceremony held at Oslo City Hall.\n\nGrameen Bank is the only business corporation to have won a Nobel Prize. Professor Ole Danbolt Mjøs, Chairman of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, in his speech said that, by giving the prize to Grameen Bank and Muhammad Yunus, the Norwegian Nobel Committee wanted to encourage attention on achievements of the Muslim world, on the women's perspective, and on the fight against poverty.\n\nCitizens of Bangladesh celebrated the prize. Some critics said that the award affirms neoliberalism.\n\nThe Grameen Bank has grown into over two dozen enterprises of the Grameen Family of Enterprises. These organisations include Grameen Trust, Grameen Fund, Grameen Communications, Grameen Shakti (Grameen Energy), Grameen Telecom, Grameen Shikkha (Grameen Education), Grameen Motsho (Grameen Fisheries), Grameen Baybosa Bikash (Grameen Business Development), Grameen Phone, Grameen Software Limited, Grameen CyberNet Limited, Grameen Knitwear Limited, and Grameen Uddog (owner of the brand Grameen Check).\n\nOn July 11, 2005 the Grameen Mutual Fund One (GMFO), approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Bangladesh, was listed as an Initial Public Offering. One of the first mutual funds of its kind, GMFO will allow the more than four million Grameen bank members, as well as non-members, to buy into Bangladesh's capital markets. The Bank and its constituents are together worth over USD 7.4 billion.\n\nThe Grameen Foundation was developed to share the Grameen philosophy and expand the benefits of microfinance for the world's poorest people. Grameen Foundation, which has an A-rating from [Charity Watch], provides microloans in the USA (the only developed country where this is done), and supports microfinance institutions worldwide with loan guarantees, training, and technology transfer. As of 2008, Grameen Foundation supports microfinance institutions in the following regions:\n\nSome analysts have suggested that microcredit can bring communities into debt from which they cannot escape. Researchers have noted instances when microloans from the Grameen Bank were linked to exploitation and pressures on poor families to sell their belongings, leading in extreme cases to humiliation and ultimately suicides.\n\nThe Mises Institute's Jeffrey Tucker suggests that microcredit banks depend on subsidies to operate, thus acting as another example of welfare. Yunus believes that he is working against the subsidised economy, giving borrowers the opportunity to create businesses. Some of Tucker's criticism is based on his interpretation of Grameen's \"16 decisions,\" seen as indoctrination, without considering what they mean in the context of poor, illiterate peasants.\n\nMaulana Ibrahim, an imam in Bangladesh, spoke out against the Grameen Bank in 1993 for fostering \"un-Islamic ways.\" He alleged that the lenders' pledge required women to say they would not obey their husbands and would not live in poverty any more.\n\nThe Norwegian documentary, \"Caught in Micro debt\", said that Grameen evaded taxes. The Spanish documentary, \"Microcredit,\" also suggested this. The accusation is based on the unauthorised transfer of approximately US$100 million, donated by The Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD), from one Grameen entity to another in 1996, before the expiry of the Grameen Bank's tax exemption. However, NORAD published a statement in December 2010 clearing Yunus and the Bank of any wrongdoing on this point, following a comprehensive review of NORAD's support commissioned by the Minister of International Development.\n\nYunus denies that this is tax evasion:\n\nThere is no question of tax evasion here. The Government has provided organisations with opportunities; we have made use of these opportunities with aim of benefitting our shareholders who are the rural poor women of Bangladesh.\nDavid Roodman and Jonathan Morduch question the statistical validity of studies of microcredit's effects on poverty, noting the complexity of the situations involved. Yoolim Lee and Ruth David discuss how microfinance and the Grameen model in South India have in recent years been distorted by venture capitalism and profit-makers. In some cases, poor rural families have suffered debt spirals, harassment by microfinance debt collectors, and in some cases suicide.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25445597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25445597", "title": "Habendum clause", "text": "Habendum clause\n\nA habendum clause is a clause in a deed or lease that defines the type of interest and rights to be enjoyed by the grantee or lessee. \n\nIn a deed, a habendum clause usually begins with the words \"to have and to hold\". This phrase is the translation of the Latin that historically commenced these clauses in deeds. Technically speaking, the \"to have\" () is separate from the \"to hold\" (), such that the tenendum clause is sometimes considered a separate concept. Historically, the habendum clause dealt with \"the quantity of interest or estate which the grantee was to have in the property granted\", while the tenendum clause addressed \"the tenure upon or under which it was to be held\". Put differently, the habendum deals with the relationship between the possessor and the land—how the land is to be had—while the tenendum deals with the relationship between the possessor and his immediately superior lord—how the land is to be held. The obsolescence of land tenure, however, renders this distinction mostly historical and academic.\n\nThe provisions of the habendum clause must agree with those stated in the granting clause. For example, if the grantor conveys a time share interest or an interest less than fee simple absolute, the habendum clause would specify the owner's rights as well as how those rights are limited (a specific time frame or certain prohibited activities, for instance). Many states, such as Pennsylvania, require a deed to have a habendum clause in order for the deed to be officially recorded and recognized by the Recorder of Deeds.\n\nHabendum clauses are also found in leases, particularly oil and gas leases. The habendum clause can define how long the interest granted will extend. Most oil and gas leases provide for a primary and secondary term. During the primary term the lessee can hold the lease without producing. The secondary term is usually \"so long thereafter as oil and gas is produced in paying quantities.\"\n"}
{"id": "33932604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33932604", "title": "Health Promotion Practice", "text": "Health Promotion Practice\n\nHealth Promotion Practice is a bimonthly peer-reviewed public health journal covering the field of public health, especially the practical application of health promotion and education. The editor-in-chief is Jesus Ramirez-Valles (University of Illinois at Chicago). It was established in 2000 and is published by Sage Publications on behalf of the Society for Public Health Education.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "880231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880231", "title": "John Christy", "text": "John Christy\n\nJohn Raymond Christy is a climate scientist at the University of Alabama in Huntsville (UAH) whose chief interests are satellite remote sensing of global climate and global climate change. He is best known, jointly with Roy Spencer, for the first successful development of a satellite temperature record.\n\nA native of Fresno, California, Christy became interested in the weather when he was a child. He became curious why the weather in the San Joaquin Valley was so different from that of the Sierra Mountains. He has recalled that \"I built my first climate datasets when I was 12, using a mechanical pencil, graph paper, and long-division (no calculators back then.) I've been a climate nerd ever since.\" He received a B.A. in Mathematics from California State University, Fresno in 1973, and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Illinois in 1984 and 1987. His doctoral thesis was titled, \"An investigation of the general circulation associated with extreme anomalies in hemispheric mean atmospheric mass\".\n\nPrior to his scientific career, Christy taught physics and chemistry as a missionary teacher in Nyeri, Kenya from 1973 to 1975. After earning a Master of Divinity degree from Golden Gate Baptist Seminary in 1978 he served four years as a bivocational mission-pastor in Vermillion, South Dakota, where he also taught college math.\n\nHe is the Distinguished Professor of Atmospheric Science and Director of the Earth System Science Center at the University of Alabama in Huntsville. He was appointed Alabama's state climatologist in 2000. For his development of a global temperature data set from satellites he was awarded NASA's Medal for Exceptional Scientific Achievement, and the American Meteorological Society's \"Special Award.\" In 2002, Christy was elected Fellow of the American Meteorological Society.\n\nSince 1989 Christy, along with Roy Spencer, has maintained an atmospheric temperature record derived from satellite microwave sounding unit measurements, commonly called the \"UAH\" record (see also satellite temperature record). This was once quite controversial: From the beginning of the satellite record in late 1978 into 1998 it showed a net global cooling trend, although ground measurements and instruments carried aloft by balloons showed warming in many areas. Part of the cooling trend seen by the satellites can be attributed to several years of cooler than normal temperatures and cooling caused by the eruption of the Mount Pinatubo volcano. Part of the discrepancy between the surface and atmospheric trends was resolved over a period of several years as Christy, Spencer and others identified several factors, including orbital drift and decay, that caused a net cooling bias in the data collected by the satellite instruments. Since the data correction of August 1998 (and the major La Niña Pacific Ocean warming event of the same year), data collected by satellite instruments has shown an average global warming trend in the atmosphere. From November 1978 through March 2011, Earth's atmosphere has warmed at an average rate of about 0.14 C per decade, according to the UAHuntsville satellite record.\n\nChristy was a lead author of a section of the 2001 report by the IPCC and the U.S. CCSP report \"Temperature Trends in the Lower Atmosphere – Understanding and Reconciling Differences\". Christy also signed the 2003 American Geophysical Union statement on climate change.\n\nChristy has also performed detailed reconstruction of surface temperature for Central California. He found that recorded temperature changes there were consistent with an altered surface environment caused by increased irrigation for agriculture, which changed \"a high-albedo desert into a darker, moister, vegetated plain.\"\n\nIn a 2003 interview with National Public Radio about the 2003 American Geophysical Union (AGU) statement, he said he is \"a strong critic of scientists who make catastrophic predictions of huge increases in global temperatures and tremendous rises in sea levels\". He added, though, that \"it is scientifically inconceivable that after changing forests into cities, turning millions of acres into irrigated farmland, putting massive quantities of soot and dust into the air, and putting extra greenhouse gases into the air, that the natural course of climate has not changed in some way.\"\n\nIn a 2009 interview with Fortune Magazine about signing the 2003 American Geophysical Union (AGU) statement, he said: \"As far as the AGU, I thought that was a fine statement because it did not put forth a magnitude of the warming. We just said that human effects have a warming influence, and that's certainly true. There was nothing about disaster or catastrophe. In fact, I was very upset about the latest AGU statement [in 2007]. It was about alarmist as you can get.\"\n\nIn a 2007 editorial in the Wall Street Journal, he wrote: \"I'm sure the majority (but not all) of my IPCC colleagues cringe when I say this, but I see neither the developing catastrophe nor the smoking gun proving that human activity is to blame for most of the warming we see.\"\n\nIn a 2007 ruling in a trial relating to automobile emission regulation in Vermont, U.S. District Court Chief Judge William K. Sessions wrote, \"Plaintiffs’ own expert, Dr. Christy, agrees with the IPCC’s [2001] assessment that in the light of new evidence and taking into account remaining uncertainties, most of the observed warming over the last fifty years is likely to have been due to the increase in GHG concentrations.\" What Christy said in his testimony was, \"You know, it's a statement that has lots of qualifications in it, so it's hard to disagree with.\" and \"You saw me pause a long time because — this was six years ago. And the question was about what I thought six years ago.\" When then asked if he presently agreed with that IPCC assessment Christy responded, \"As I answered here, because of the qualifications in that statement, I don't have significant concerns.\"\n\nIn a 2009 written testimony to the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee, he wrote: \"From my analysis, the actions being considered to 'stop global warming' will have an imperceptible impact on whatever the climate will do, while making energy more expensive, and thus have a negative impact on the economy as a whole. We have found that climate models and popular surface temperature data sets overstate the changes in the real atmosphere and that actual changes are not alarming.\"\n\nIn 2014, Christy and his UAH colleague Richard McNider wrote a commentary piece in the Wall Street Journal, arguing that climate models projected temperatures consistently higher than real-world satellite and balloon data. The authors also pointed to past instances where scientific consensus turned out to be incorrect.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59137503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59137503", "title": "Kitty Anderson (activist)", "text": "Kitty Anderson (activist)\n\nKitty Anderson is an intersex activist from Iceland. She is a co-chair of European intersex organization OII Europe, a co-founder of Intersex Iceland, and chairman of the board of the Icelandic Human Rights Centre. She has been described as a \"leading voice of the intersex movement in Europe.\"\n\nKitty Anderson was born with androgen insensitivity. She found out when she was 13, but only found out she was born with internal testes when she was aged 22. Anderson has reported that her \"mother was told to lie\" to her until she was aged 13.\n\nAnderson co-founded Intersex Iceland in 2014, and currently serves as its chairperson. She is co-chair and spokesperson of OII Europe and chairperson of the board of the Icelandic Human Rights Centre. She has also served on the board of Samtökin '78, Iceland's national queer organization, and the national Ministry of Welfare Queer Committee from 2014-2016. Anderson has spoken against secrecy and shame associated with intersex:\n\nShe also campaigns against intersex medical interventions. In an interview with NIKK, Anderson has stated that \"surgeries will continue until we get a law that prohibits them\".\n\nAnderson has presented to the Council of Europe Committee on Bioethics, and speaks at a range of conferences, media, and human rights institutions across Scandinavia and Europe. \n\nIn 2015, Anderson campaigned to change terminology in the biology curriculum in Icelandic schools, and dictionaries, after finding out that the word intersex was being translated into Icelandic as \"freak\". The publisher of the school text later apologized.\n"}
{"id": "6259210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6259210", "title": "Land-sale overage", "text": "Land-sale overage\n\nIn the context of land sales, an overage (also called “claw back”) is used to describe a sum of money in addition to the original sale price which a seller of land may be entitled to receive following completion if and when the buyer complies with agreed conditions.\n\nOverage is often written into a contract of sale where land or property is being sold at an undervalued rate, or there is a clear process which can be undertaken to improve the value of the land over and above the cost of the process to improve the value. Planning permission is often an example of a process which can significantly enhance the value of land over and above the cost of gaining the permission.\n\nOverage does not solely relate to land and property and could be written into any contract for a sale of goods. Therefore, if an old classic car in poor condition was to be sold to someone with the intent of refurbishing it and then selling it on, the original seller may choose to sell the car at a very low value and contract to receive a percentage of the uplift from the next sale as well.\n\nA typical scenario would be:\nOn completion, a buyer pays a given price for a piece of land and the seller is aware of the buyer’s intention to develop the land. Overage provisions are negotiated into the contract of sale to ensure that once planning is obtained, the seller receives a proportion of the increase in the value of the land.\n"}
{"id": "22005324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22005324", "title": "Land reform in Namibia", "text": "Land reform in Namibia\n\nLand reform is an important political and economic topic in Namibia. It consists of two different strategies: resettlement, and transfer of commercially viable agricultural land. Resettlement is aimed at improving the lives of displaced or dispossessed previously disadvantaged Namibians. Farms obtained by government for resettlement purposes are usually split into several sections, and dozens of families are being resettled on what had previously been one farm. Transfer of commercial agricultural land is not directly conducted by government. Would-be farmers with a previously disadvantaged background obtain farms privately or through affirmative action loans. In both cases, the \"Willing buyer, willing seller\" principle applies.\n\nNamibia contains about 4,000 commercial farms. Almost 1000 of them have been obtained by previously disadvantaged Namibians since independence, some by means of private transactions, and some through government-facilitated loans. Until 2020, a further 15 Mio hectares of commercial agricultural land are to be transferred to blacks, a third of this area for resettlement purposes, two thirds for agriculture.\n\nLand ownership in pre-colonial central and southern South West Africa was intermittent; Herero people and Nama people claimed the land they were currently using. Heinrich Vedder writes:\n\nAs the Nama said: Where the foot of our hunter sets there is Namaland, so said the Herero: wherever my cattle grassed there is Hereroland.\n\nThe notion of permanent ownership of land in the territory of South West Africa was only introduced in the wake of colonialisation. Consequently, the dispossession of land by European settlers from Africans began in the nineteenth century with the coming of German colonists and traders as the area was incorporated as German South-West Africa.\n\nNamibia gained independence in March 1990. Upon independence, the country inherited a colonial division of land in which 3,500 farmers, who were almost entirely White, owned approximately 50% of the country's agricultural land. These farmers constituted about 0.2% of the total national population. Land reform was one of the biggest goals for many who participated in Namibia's liberation struggle.\n\nPrior to the first democratic election in 1989, liberation movement leader SWAPO committed itself to \"transfer[ing] some of the land from the few with too much of it to the landless majority\".\n\nNamibia's land reform process is based on three strategies, outlined by the Agricultural (Commercial) Land Reform Act of 1995:\n\nFarms obtained by government for resettlement purposes are usually split into several sections, and dozens of families are being resettled on what had previously been one farm. From 1990 to 2007, an independent report said that the government had resettled approximately 800 Black farmers on land bought for redistribution. It was approximately 12% of commercial farmland in the country, or less than 1% per year.\n\nNamibian citizens may obtain a portion of a farm for resettlement if they do not yet own farm land, and if they belong to the previously disadvantaged population. In the allocation process, females score higher than males, people 25 years of age or older score higher than those below 25, and people with farming experience score higher than those without.\n\nThe government generally has avoided expropriating farms. Farms to be reallocated to previously disadvantaged people are mainly bought from farm owners that wish to sell their farms. This is called the \"Willing buyer, willing seller\" principle. Any farm that is to be sold on the free market must first be offered to government. However, in 2005, government began expropriating commercial farms. Although only five farms had been expropriated in 2008, and a further 30 farm owners had received letters asking them to sell to government, this move has instilled fears in the white farming community and discouraged further investment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24241131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24241131", "title": "Left Group of Finnish Workers", "text": "Left Group of Finnish Workers\n\nLeft Group of Finnish Workers () was a socialist political party in Finland. The party was active in the late 1920s and early 1930s. The group was founded by activists who had previously cooperated with the Communist Party of Finland (SKP). Niilo Wälläri, Eino Pekkala, Erkki Härmä and Kusti Kulo were some of the well-known leaders of the group. The group had supporters mainly in the southern industrial cities of Finland.\n\nThe communists – who followed Comintern's Third Period policy – had a very negative attitude to the Left Group, whose members were branded \"vacillators\" (). The group was considered more dangerous than social democrats or the far right. The Left Group called their communist critics fanatical \"beaters in the air\" (). The Social Democratic Party of Finland was also critical of the Left Group and they avoided cooperation. It was tactically important for the SDP to maintain an image that considered their left-wing opponents as a single Moscow-led entity.\n\nThe Left Group published the paper \"Suomen Työmies\" in 1930. In Vaasa, \"Työn Ääni\" was also briefly in the hands of the Left Group.\n\nIn the 1920s, the underground communist party worked with left socialists in various legal coalitions. Schisms between the partners began to intensify in the mid-1920s. The problematic relations between communists in Finland and those who had emigrated to Soviet Union was the main question. The socialists outside SKP criticized the Soviet-residing leadership and Comintern for excessive intervention in activities inside Finland. A pamphlet called \"Away with the emigrants\" () was published in April 1925. Conflicts escalated when the SKP adopted the uncompromising third period program of Comintern in 1928. Critical attitude to other leftist parties was now emphasized.\n\nThe socialist opposition gained support especially in the trade union movement, in which the social democrats were in minority, and the conflict became pronounced in the 8th congress of Suomen Ammattijärjestö, the Finnish Trade Union centre, in May 1929. The communists tried to gather support for the so-called Copenhagen treaty according to which the cooperation between Finnish, Norwegian and Soviet trade unions was to be increased. In addition, they wanted to end cooperation with the International Labour Organization and to intensify fight against social fascism. The socialist majority of the left-wing majority, however, thought it was not wise to exacerbate the relations with the social democrats further and the initiatives were rejected. Still, the social democrats left the SAJ after the congress as a protest to communists.\n\nThe SKP was not happy with the outcome of the SAJ congress and the stance was supported by Comintern. This was made clear in summer 1929 when the communists openly attacked their socialist comrades. Following Comintern orders, the SKP began to oust socialists from leading positions in trade unions. In autumn, the objective was put into practice, and the SKP regained control of the SAJ executive committee. The majority was temporarily lost in 1928 after many leading communists were arrested by the state police. The policy was strongly objected by the socialist trade union leaders including Matti Väisänen and Erkki Härmä. The socialists tried to gain support for an extraordinary SAJ congress but the effort was not successful.\n\nLeft Group of Finnish Workers was founded in December 1929. The first central committee consisted of Eino Pekkala (chairman), Uno Nurminen (vice chairman), Hugo M. Ahokanta (secretary), Emil Tuomi, Kusti Kulo and August Raatikainen. Matti Väisänen, Nurminen and Niilo Wälläri formed the important trade union committee. To clarify its policies, the new group released a three-page pamphlet in which the extremist communist line was rejected. In January 1930, the group organ \"Suomen Työmies\" hit the newsstands. In its first issue the paper emphasized independence of the Finnish workers' movement and demanded that the union statutes should be respected.\n\nIn spring the Left Group acted against SAJ policy of founding new trade unions to sectors controlled by the social democrats who had left the central organization. Meanwhile, the communist strengthened their positions in the SAJ and three prominent socialist leaders, Wälläri (Kuljetustyöläisten liitto), Nurminen (Rakennustyöläisten liitto) and Nestori Ahonen (Puuteollisuustyöväen liitto), were purged. Nurminen resigned from the SAJ executive committee. Kusti Kulo, who was in charge of the SAJ education work, was expelled in June. Still, the Left Group tried to work with the communists. It was suggested that the left, including social democrats, should unite against the far-right Lapuan liike movement which was terrorizing the organized workers. The SKP did not agree.\n\nIn July, all activities of the SAJ and its organizations were banned by the state. Left-wing newspapers were closed and politicians arrested, including members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Workers and Smallholders, a joint effort of left socialists and communists. The socialist left, however, participated in the formation of a new SDP-controlled trade union SAK, which, in its early years, was boycotted by the SKP.\n"}
{"id": "368610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368610", "title": "Livery company", "text": "Livery company\n\nThe livery companies of the City of London, currently 110 in number, comprise London's ancient and modern trade associations and guilds, almost all of which are styled the \"Worshipful Company of...\" their respective craft, trade or profession. London's livery companies play a significant part in City life, not least by providing charitable-giving and networking opportunities. Liverymen retain voting rights for the senior civic offices, such as the Lord Mayor, Sheriffs and City of London Corporation, its ancient municipal authority with extensive local government powers.\n\nThe term \"livery\" originated in the specific form of dress worn by retainers of a nobleman and then by extension to special dress to denote status of belonging to a trade. Livery companies evolved from London's medieval guilds, becoming corporations under Royal Charter responsible for training in their respective trades, as well as for the regulation of aspects such as wage control, labour conditions and industry standards. Early guilds often grew out of parish fraternal organizations, where large groups of members of the same trade lived in close proximity and gathered at the same church. Like most organisations during the Middle Ages, these livery companies had close ties with the Catholic Church (before the Protestant Reformation), endowing religious establishments such as chantry chapels and churches, observing religious festivals with hosting ceremonies and well-known mystery plays. Most livery companies retain their historical religious associations, although nowadays members are free to follow any faith or none. Companies often established a guild or meeting hall, and though they faced destruction in the Great London Fire of 1666 and during World War II, thirty-nine companies maintain their sometimes elaborate and historic halls. \n\nMost livery companies still maintain contacts with their original trade, craft or professional roles. Some still exercise powers of regulation, inspection and enforcement, while others are awarding bodies for professional qualifications. The Scriveners' Company admits senior members of legal and associated professions, the Apothecaries' Company awards post-graduate qualifications in some medical specialties, and the Hackney Carriage Drivers' Company comprises licensed taxi drivers who have passed the \"Knowledge of London\" test. Several companies restrict membership only to those holding relevant professional qualifications, \"eg.\" the City of London Solicitors' Company and the Worshipful Company of Engineers. Other companies, whose trade died out long ago, such as the Longbow Makers' Company, have evolved into being primarily charitable foundations.\n\nAfter the Carmen received City livery status in 1746 no new companies were established in London for 180 years until the Master Mariners in 1926 (granted livery in 1932). Post-1926 creations are known as \"modern livery companies\". The Worshipful Company of Arts Scholars, the newest, was granted livery status on 11 February 2014, making it the 110th City livery company in order of precedence. The Honourable Company of Air Pilots is exceptional among London's livery companies in having active overseas committees in Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, New Zealand and North America.\n\nThe companies were originally formed, starting in the 12th century, to guarantee that a member was trustworthy and fully qualified, and that the goods they produced were of reputable quality, the two-fold aim being to protect the public and to protect members from charlatans. Many were formed up until the 17th century, when political upheaval and the growth of London around the City meant the companies, which only controlled trade in the City itself, began to struggle to compete.\n\nFrom the 1870s however, there was a revival, with the companies extending their original educational purpose to technical education, supporting new industries and providing the training necessary to them, most notably the City and Guilds of London Institute.\n\nFrom the start, the companies cared for their members in sickness and old age. Today, they support both their members, and wider charitable aims and activities, including those supporting education and training.\n\nMost livery companies have affiliations with regular and reserve units in the armed forces.\n\nFinally, the companies have always been essential to the governance of the City of London. The senior members of the livery companies, i.e, the liverymen, elect the City's sheriffs, Bridge Masters, Ale Conners, auditors, the members of the City Livery Committee, and approve the aldermanic candidates for election to the office of Lord Mayor of London.\n\nEntry to a livery company may be by one of four routes:\n\nRegardless of method of entry, membership carries the same duties and benefits. Membership of a livery company conveys the Freedom of the City of London, now little more than a formality, though in the past the freedom carried benefits, such as being able to take a flock of sheep across London Bridge at no charge.\n\nLivery companies are governed by a master (alternatively styled prime warden in some companies, or Upper Bailiff of the Weavers' Company), a number of wardens (holding various titles such as the upper, middle, lower, or renter wardens), and a court of assistants (board of directors), responsible for company business and electing its master and wardens. The \"clerk to the company\" is invariably its most senior permanent member of staff, who as chief executive officer runs its day-to-day activities.\n\nMembership generally falls into two categories: freemen and liverymen. One may become a freeman, or acquire the \"freedom of the company\", upon fulfilling certain criteria: traditionally, by \"patrimony\", if either parent were a liveryman of the company; by \"servitude\", if one has served a requisite number of years as an apprentice to a senior company member; or by \"redemption\", upon paying a fee. Most livery companies reserve the right to admit distinguished people, particularly in their sphere of influence, as honorary freemen. Freemen may advance to become liverymen, after obtaining the freedom of the City of London, and with their court of assistants' approval. Only liverymen are eligible to vote in the annual election of the Lord Mayor of London, the sheriffs and various other City civic offices, including the Ale Conners and Bridge Masters.\n\nThe livery companies elect a majority of the members of the Livery Committee, a body administered at Guildhall. The committee oversees the elections of sheriffs and the Lord Mayor, educates liverymen regarding the City and its activities, represents the livery companies in communications with the City.\n\nA liveryman is a full member of their respective company.\n\nWhen a freeman becomes a liveryman, the candidate is said to be 'enclothed': indeed, a \"livery gown\" is placed on them at the court and they are seen at the next formal or social occasion wearing it. Thereafter only the master, wardens and assistants in companies are seen wearing these at company events. The masters wear them at the City's formal events, e.g. the two Common Halls and the United Guilds Service, and Lord Mayor's Show, wherever they may participate. Ordinarily, liverymen wear ties at formal functions and each company differs by allowing women to wear distinct items subject to the occasion, such as a scarf or brooch.\n\nFreemen are expected to advance to become liverymen by a vote of the court of the company. Liverymen no longer have any local authority franchise in the City, but retain the exclusive right of voting in the election of the Lord Mayor of the City of London (Michaelmas 'Common Hall' 29 September) and for the sheriffs (Mid-Summer 'Common Hall' 24 June) held in Guildhall as a ceremonial occasion. The votes are made by 'acclamation' subject to a challenge/demand from the floor for a ballot which would be held a week later. Any two liverymen may nominate a candidate for the Freedom of the City.\n\nBefore the Reform Act 1832 the liverymen had the exclusive right to elect the four Members of Parliament representing the City. Between 1832 and 1918 being a liveryman was one of a number of possible franchises which could qualify a parliamentary elector in the City of London constituency, as it was a preserved ancient borough franchise under the terms of the 1832 Act.\n\nSee also City of London (elections to the Parliament of England) for further details of the history of the involvement of liverymen in parliamentary elections.\n\nToday 39 out of 110 City livery companies own premises in London, as well as the Watermen and Lightermen which although not strictly a livery company, retains headquarters still in regular use. Among the earliest companies known to have had halls are the Merchant Taylors and Goldsmiths in the 14th century, and, uniquely, the kitchen and the crypt of Merchant Taylors' Hall survived both the Great Fire of London and the Blitz, the kitchen now having been in uninterrupted use for over 600 years.\n\nBesides surviving parts of Merchant Taylors’ Hall, the oldest hall interiors now extant are those of the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries, dating from 1668-71; significant portions of the fabric of this building are also medieval, from the 13th-century priory part of which became the Apothecaries’ Hall. Several companies that do not have a hall of their own share office premises within the hall of another company on a semi-permanent basis, examples being the Spectacle Makers' Company, which uses part of Apothecaries' Hall, and the Worshipful Company of Shipwrights, which co-habits with the Ironmongers. Many livery halls can be hired for business and social functions, and are popular for weddings, commercial and society meetings, luncheons and dinners.\n\nThree livery companies (the Glaziers and Painters of Glass, Launderers, and Scientific Instrument Makers) share a hall in Southwark, just south of and outside the City of London, while the Worshipful Company of Gunmakers has long been based at Proof House, in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets and the Master Mariners' \"hall\" is an historical ship, HQS \"Wellington\", moored on the Thames which is shared by the Scriveners' Company. Companies without halls customarily book use of another livery hall for their formal gatherings, giving members and guests the opportunity to visit and enjoy different City livery halls by rotation.\n\nBlue plaques throughout the City of London indicate where companies formerly had halls. Whilst several livery companies may aspire to owning or regaining their own hall it is appreciated that any increase in the overall number of livery halls would inevitably lead to some dilution of use of the existing halls. There is also attraction in belonging to a company which is peripatetic.\n\nIn 1515, the Court of Aldermen of the City of London settled an order of precedence for the 48 livery companies then in existence, based on those companies' contemporary economic or political power. The 12 highest-ranked companies remain known as the Great Twelve City Livery Companies. Today there are 110 City livery companies, all post-1515 companies being ranked by seniority of creation.\n\nThe Merchant Taylors and the Skinners have long disputed their precedence, so once a year (at Easter) they swap between sixth and seventh places. This mix-up is a favourite theory for the origin of the phrase \"at sixes and sevens\", as has been pointed out by at least one Master Merchant Taylor; however, it is possible that the phrase may have been coined before these two companies (Taylors and Skinners) resolved their dispute, which arose from their both receiving Charters in 1327 with no proof surviving as to which was granted first.\n\n\"Companies without Livery\" is a status which applies during the period between when a Guild is recognised by the Court of Aldermen and when it is granted the rights of a livery. A guild initially applies to be a \"London Guild\", and may later apply to the Court to become \"A Company of the City of London\". After an indefinite period, such \"A Company of the City of London\" can apply to the Aldermen for livery status; if granted, they can thereafter use the honorific prefix \"Worshipful Company\".\n\n\n\nNeither the \"Company of Parish Clerks\" nor the \"Company of Watermen\" have had or intend to apply for livery status, which remains a long-standing City tradition. This is granted by the City Corporation in effect to control a company. The Watermen and Parish Clerks are governed by statutes and Royal Charters with responsibilities outside the City. The Company of Watermen and Lightermen was established by Act of Parliament in 1555 to regulate the watermen on the River Thames responsible for the movement of goods and passengers and remains the only ancient City Guild to be formed and governed by Act of Parliament. They are then strictly not 'Companies without Livery' at all but simply 'companies'.\n\nThe \"City Livery Club\", \"The Guild of Young Freemen\" and the \"Guild of Freemen of the City of London\", whilst not being livery companies, are popular clubs amongst the City fraternity.\n\nThe City Corporation of London remains lord of three manors at Southwark (Guildable, King's and Great Liberty). These are membership organisations for those areas which are the jurors of their manorial courts. They are not in any way \"Guilds\" as are not related to trading and occupational activities. These courts retain legal-standing under the Administration of Justice Act 1977.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39140116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39140116", "title": "MDRC", "text": "MDRC\n\nMDRC is a nonprofit, nonpartisan education and social policy research organization based in New York City and Oakland, CA. MDRC mounts large-scale demonstrations and uses randomized controlled trials to measure the effects of social and educational policy initiatives. MDRC is led by President Gordon Berlin and Senior Vice Presidents Jesús Amadeo and Robert Ivry.\n\nIn 1974 the Ford Foundation and six government agencies together created the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation. Its purpose was to implement and document the results of new programs intended to help the poor. In the 1980s and 1990s, it became well known for its evaluations of state welfare-to-work programs. It formally adopted \"MDRC\" as its registered corporate identity in 2003.\n\nMDRC evaluates and pilot-tests programs in six main areas:\n\nMDRC helped pioneer the use of random assignment to test social programs. Its evaluations of welfare work programs influenced the welfare reform of the 1990s. In the 1990s and 2000s, MDRC’s evaluation of the Career Academies high school reform model, which showed impacts on participants’ earnings eight years after graduation, influenced the expansion of the model around the nation. MDRC was the intermediary for the first social impact bond demonstration in the United States, a project to reduce recidivism among 16- to 18-year-olds incarcerated at Rikers Island. Most recently, MDRC's study of the City University of New York's Accelerated Study in Associate Programs (ASAP) has demonstrated that the program has doubled the three-year graduation rate of students who begin college requiring remedial education. \n\n"}
{"id": "31334019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31334019", "title": "Major General Comte Jean de Rochambeau", "text": "Major General Comte Jean de Rochambeau\n\nIt is located in Lafayette Park, Washington, D.C.\nPresident Theodore Roosevelt dedicated the statue on May 24, 1902.\nThe inscription reads:\nA copy of the statue exists in Paris at the Place Rochambeau.\n\nAs part of the American Revolution Statuary in Washington, D.C. the statue is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43580374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43580374", "title": "Matt DeHart", "text": "Matt DeHart\n\nMatt DeHart is an American citizen and former U.S. Air National Guard intelligence analyst known for his involvement with the Anonymous hacker group and WikiLeaks and claims to have received classified documents alleging serious misconduct by the CIA.\n\nHe was indicted for alleged possession of indecent images from under-aged boys in 2010, but claims that this was a ruse in order to punish him for his online activities. A judge ruling on the case found this credible. He was, however, imprisoned for 21 months without access to proofs for these allegations. After being released on bond in 2012, he unsuccessfully sought asylum in Canada, claiming he had been tortured by the FBI with regards to the classified documents. In November 2015 he struck a plea bargain to serve a 7 and a half year sentence.\n\nFormer whistleblower Jesselyn Radack, his supporters and DeHart himself purport the allegations are a ruse by the FBI to discredit him over the information he has released.\n\nAs Matt DeHart's parents, Paul and Leann (married in 1978), were both members of the U.S. military, he lived and grew up in many different places: Fort Meade, Maryland (age 1-2); Wheeler Air Force Base, Hawaii (age 2-4); Prattville, Alabama (K–3rd grade), Fort Meade (4th grade); Prattville (5th grade); Birdsboro, Pennsylvania (6th grade); Randolph, New Jersey (7th – 11th grades); Washington Township, Pennsylvania (12th grade); Elmira, New York (2002–2005); and Newburgh, Indiana (2005–2010). The DeHart family is based on military tradition and Christian and conservative beliefs.\n\nFrom an early age, DeHart was a tech geek. He started a group called KAOS (Kaos Anti-Security Operations Syndicate) in 2000. He graduated from high school in 2002. He took classes through Corning Community College; BOCES, Horseheads New York; and IVY Tech Indianapolis, Indiana. In 2004, he spent time on 4chan, a message board which gave birth to Anonymous. Besides socializing and gaming online, DeHart developed interests in encryption, internet freedom and privacy. In 2008, he took part in Project Chanology, Anonymous' anti-Scientology campaign.\n\nIn 2008, DeHart enlisted in the U.S. Air National Guard, becoming an intelligence analyst. In June 2009, he was discharged from the National Guard, with an honorable discharge, as a consequence of a diagnosis of depression. DeHart says after his superiors had learned about his activism he had been offered a lump sum if he resigned but he had refused to do so.\n\nDeHart was involved in online activities with a small group 'Anonymous Anti-Security' using the anonymity network Tor. As a part of these activities, DeHart ran a dead drop server named 'The Shell', on a computer in his bedroom. In September 2009, while monitoring the server, DeHart found an unencrypted folder containing hundreds of documents, including one detailing what looked like an FBI investigation into some particularly shady deeds by the CIA. He deleted the unencrypted folder from the server, but kept screenshots. Shortly afterwards he found an encrypted version of the same file placed on another hidden server he believes was meant for WikiLeaks.\n\nDeHart also claims \"a document dropped onto his Tor server included details of FBI's investigation into CIA's possible role in the anthrax attack\".\n\nJanuary 22, 2010 he received a 'pretty detailed tip' from an associate who claims they were asked about the server by the FBI related to the file from a few months previously. At this point he shut down his server entirely and destroyed its hard drives.\n\nOn January 22, 2010, the State of Indiana issued a search warrant for the DeHart's home in Newburgh in with the expressed purpose of searching for child pornography. The search was executed in January 25, seizing DeHart's computers and every data storage capable device that could be found. However, two encrypted IronKey USB devices with the sensitive server data were stored in the family gun case at the time and were overlooked. DeHart suggests the drive may have also contained documents from his former military unit. During the forensic analysis of the evidence seized, officers stated child pornography was found.\n\nFollowing these seizures, DeHart drove to Mexico where he mailed one drive to a contact in the United Kingdom and the other to a contact in the United States. Shortly after he would travel with his father to the Russian Embassy in Washington DC to seek asylum. The request would be denied, as would a subsequent request at the Venezuelan embassy.\n\nIn March 2010 DeHart applied for a US updated passport, which he got in less than a month. The following month, April 2010, DeHart moved to Montreal, Quebec, Canada and started an eight-week French immersion course with ILSC-Montreal, staying at a home with other international students. DeHart planned to take a welding class at Holland College in Prince Edward Island, and his parents settled him into a studio apartment in Charlottetown, near Holland College campus. Whilst applying for a student visa at US border patrol office and after handing over his US passport, DeHart was arrested and taken into custody by FBI agents. US authorities contacted police in Charlottetown, asking for his studio apartment to be searched as part of a child pornography investigation. The material seized from DeHart's apartment was not sent to Tennessee but to the FBI's field office in Washington DC, U.S. Department of Justice.\n\nDehart was placed in a cell at Calais' Large International Avenue Immigration and Customs Enforcement Detention Center for questioning. He claims he was drugged and describes the treatment he received as \"torture\". He was taken unconscious in an ambulance from the Penobscot County Jail, Bangor, ME to the Eastern Maine Medical Center before 1am on August 7. The records from the Eastern Maine Medical Center show he was diagnosed with eye pain and a psychotic break. He was released in \"guarded\" condition to unnamed officials and sent back to the jail. He was further interrogated by the FBI that same day while suffering from a psychotic break. The results of that interrogation are classified. He was questioned about his military unit, Russian Embassy, Anonymous, and WikiLeaks.\n\nLater DeHart was transferred and kept in segregation at the Penobscot County jail in Bangor, Maine. Until his first hearing (Habeas Corpus hearing), he was incommunicado.\n\nOn August 9, 2010 DeHart was brought before U.S. Court Judge Margaret Kravchuk who branded his court appearance that day as \"odd\". On August 18, 2010, DeHart signed consent forms (such as the permission for any FBI agent and \"any Canadian law enforcement\", to record his phone calls with his old military colleagues) and authorized agents to assume his online identity, giving the FBI his aliases, and passwords to his e-mail accounts. Among the accounts was a Hushmail account in the name of \"Fawkes\".\n\nDeHart was then transferred to Tennessee, where he spent 21 months in jail, allegedly because of the child pornography charges against him. In May 2012, Judge Aleta Trauger who was allowed to read classified documents about DeHart and heard the evidence on the child pornography charges, ordered DeHart releasing to a jail, with a curfew monitored via an ankle bracelet, pending trial. Judge Trauger said in her ruling:\n\nIndecent videos were reported to be found on DeHart's computer seized in January 2012; however, they were not sent to Tennessee but to the FBI's field office. Two years after DeHart's arrest in Canada, the US Department of Justice admitted there were classified reports on him which confirmed he was arrested \"for questioning in an espionage matter\"; it was a \"national security investigation\" but made no mention of pornography.\n\nFrom May 2012 until April 2013 Matt DeHart was on bond living with his parents in a rented duplex in Newburgh Indiana. His travel was restricted to the US Southern District of Indiana and was monitored with a curfew.\n\nHe was deported to the US on 1 March 2015 and handed over to FBI agents at the Peace Bridge border crossing. He was housed at the Niagara County Jail, Lockport, New York, then transferred to a Corrections Corporation of America (CCA) private jail in northeast Ohio at Youngstown, then transferred to the Grady County Jail in Chickasha, Oklahoma; then transferred to another CCA private jail in Mason, Tennessee. On 23 Mar 2015 he was transferred back again to the Warren County Jail, Bowling Green, Kentucky, where he had already spent 21 months in pre-trial detention. He will remain there until the disposition of the US case against him.\n\nOn 11 June 2015 an Anonymous group arranged for supporters to send him gifts for his birthday in prison.\n\nOn November 13, 2015 in Tennessee, DeHart pleaded guilty to \"two charges of receiving child pornography and a charge of failing to appear as ordered in court.\" On February 22, 2016, U.S. District Judge Aleta Arthur Trauger of the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee sentenced DeHart to 72 months for the porn charges and an additional 18 months for fleeing the country.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39784314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39784314", "title": "Ministry of Defence and National Service (Tanzania)", "text": "Ministry of Defence and National Service (Tanzania)\n\nThe Ministry of Defence and National Service (MODANS) is the government ministry of Tanzania that is responsible for defense and national service.\n"}
{"id": "4740208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4740208", "title": "Model parliament", "text": "Model parliament\n\nA Model Parliament (also referred to as a Mock Parliament) is a simulation of the parliamentary proceedings of a legislature or other deliberative assembly, often based upon the Westminster Parliamentary system. Model Parliaments are usually held as an educational tool to promote understanding of the working of government.\n\nModel Parliaments have also been established to promote the activities of community service programmes or to advocate social or political change. The movement was founded for the purpose of advancing youth programmes in Canada. Oxfam sponsors an \"International Youth Parliament\" to promote youth-led social change. As an example of the latter purpose, in 1914 the women's suffrage movement in Canada, under the leadership of Nellie McClung, organized a mock parliament to parody the refusal of the government of Manitoba to grant women the right to vote.\n\nA number of mock parliaments have appeared on social media site Facebook.\n\nA global collective of World Mock Parliaments has been established, more commonly referred to as the World Federation of Mock Parliaments. The aim of The World Federation of Mock Parliaments is to link and interact with as many online mock parliaments from all over the world. Interaction and reaction is encouraged between each parliament, to replicate real life reactions, to mimic such actions such as domestic and international policy. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "25679370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25679370", "title": "Police and Border Guard Board", "text": "Police and Border Guard Board\n\nThe Police and Border Guard Board () is a unified governmental agency within the Estonian Ministry of Interior and is responsible for law enforcement and homeland security in the Republic of Estonia.\n\nThe main tasks of the agency are to ensure and protect the integrity of the Estonian state and, since May 1, 2004, also the European Union border within the territories of the Republic of Estonia; to secure the state borders and the European Union outer border within the territories of the Republic of Estonia, to monitor and identify citizenship, along with handling the documentation, to preserve law and civil order within the borders of the Republic of Estonia and to detect and prevent crime.\n\nAndrus Ansip's Government Cabinet which was established after the 2005 parlamental elections, stated in its 2007–2011 coalition programme the need for a unified homeland security agency in order to reduce operating costs and upkeep between the ministry and its organizations. On April 13, 2007 the Ministry of the Interior established a working group in order commence research about possible unification of the Estonian Police and Estonian Border Guard agencies. The history of the unified Police and Border Guard Boards formally begins with the establishment of the Police and Border Guard Board in 2010.\n\nThe final study presented by the working group proposed to unite three main law enforcement organizations, including the Police, Border Guard, and the Citizenship and Migration Board into a single structure capable of carrying out all the tasks. In October 2007, the Ministry of the Interior created another working group with an operational task to start the unification process. On August 31, 2008, the Cabinet approved the creation of a new government organization within the Ministry of the Interior with the unification of these three agencies.\n\nOn May 6, 2009, the Estonian Parliament recognized the agency unification idea with the adoption of the \"Police and Border Guard Board Law\", and changes into other laws regarding the area of competency of the Ministry. In June, the Cabinet appointed Raivo Küüt to be the first Director General of the organization. On January 1, 2010, the Police and Border Guard Board officially started work.\n\n\"Politsei- ja Piirivalveamet\" is a centralized government agency responsible for the preservation of civilian law and order within the country. The organization has more than 7,000 servicemen, of which 6,000 are in active duty, and another 1,000 in the administrative area. The agency is divided into three main operational departments: Police Board (\"Politseiamet\"), Border Guard Board (\"Piirivalveamet\"), and the Citizenship and Migration Board (\"Kodakondsus- ja Migratsiooniamet\"). The structure of the organization is further divided into four regional districts (\"prefektuur\"), where all duties of the different agencies are exercised and carried out. Each of the four prefectures is combined with several police stations and customer service offices.\n\n The Estonian Police (Eesti Politsei in Estonian) are the law enforcement agency of Estonia. The Estonian Police has three national units: the Central Criminal Police, the Central Law Enforcement and the Forensic Service Centre. There are 4 territorial police units called Police Prefectures. The local police chiefs are called prefects.\n\nCurrently, there are twenty operational police stations and facilities in Estonia.\n\nThe \"Border Guard Board\" is an armed governmental organization operating since January 2010 within the Ministry of Interior. The main tasks of the agency is to guard and protect the state borders of Estonia on land and at sea, to prevent the forcible change of borders and illegal border crossings and to prevent illegal goods crossing the border. In addition, the Border Guard Board has further responsibilities which also include the border control patrols; assistance within their competence to carry out customs and border crossing points where there is no permanent customs control; arrange for the detection and elimination of pollution in cooperation with other state agencies; to participate in search and rescue operations, ensuring the economic legal regimes, navigation, fisheries and animal hunting law execution and control of airspace and to assist the police.\n\nThe activities and planning of the Border Guard Board is based on the perspectives of the dangers to national security and internal stability, commitment neighboring countries, the Nordic countries and the European Union, whose execution guarantees the stability of the Republic of Estonia on the outer, border opportunities to use human and material resources.\n\nCurrently there are 28 sea border checkpoints, 6 airport checkpoints, 3 motorway border checkpoints, 2 railway checkpoints and 2 special border checkpoints ment only to be used between Estonia and the Russian Federation. In addition to these border installations there are 6 preserved border stations ready to be operational once Estonia has left or no longer maintains the Schengen Agreement between the European Union and Estonia. These facilities are located only in the south on the Estonian-Latvian border.\n\nThe \"Citizenship and Migration Board\" is a government agency which is responsible for organization of the Estonian citizenship matters and personal identification; issues of identity documents and visas; citizens and free movement of the labor force within the country and between other organizations. The agency is further responsible for organizing and cooperating within the international protection protocols. The board is also an institution which patrols the migration situation and in a case of severe violation of the countries laws can also cancel persons residency and deport non-citizens with an undefined citizenship out of Estonia if such matter is required. Currently there are 18 operational Citizenship and Migration Board offices and client service facilities in Estonia.\n\nThe head of the Police Board is the Director General of Police (\"peadirektor\"). The head of the regional district is the Police Commissioner (\"prefekt\"). With the unification of the Police and Border Guard Boards several new service ranks were created which now also includes the ranks of general and an inspector general.\n\nThe main color of the Police and Border Guard flag is blue, which is also one of the colors of the national flag. On the agency board the blue symbolices peace and stability. The main figure on the flag is a white standing lion holding a national small coat of arms with its first pawns. The lions tongue and claws are red. The flag design is based on the Estonian police coat of arms. The length and width ratio of the festive parade flag is 7:9 and the diameter of the flag is 105x135 cm.\n\nWalther PPQ semi-automatic pistol\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43349789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43349789", "title": "Real socialism", "text": "Real socialism\n\nReal socialism (also actually existing socialism or developed socialism) was an ideological catchphrase popularized during the Brezhnev era in the Eastern Bloc countries and the Soviet Union.\n\nThe term referred to the Soviet-type economic planning enforced by the ruling communist parties at that particular time. From the 1960s onward, countries such as Poland, East Germany, Hungary,\nCzechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia began to argue that their policies represented what was realistically feasible given their level of productivity, even if it did not conform to the Marxist concept of socialism.\n\nThe concept of real socialism alluded to a future highly developed socialist system. However, the lagging productivity growth and insufficient standard of living in the Comecon countries caused the phrase \"real socialism\" to be increasingly perceived as dishonest and unreal. The actual party claims of nomenclatory socialism began to acquire not only negative, but also sarcastic meanings. In later years and especially after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the term began to be remembered as only one thing, i.e. as a reference for Soviet-style socialism.\n\nAfter World War II, the terms \"real socialism\" or \"really existing socialism\" gradually became the predominating euphemisms used as self-description of the Eastern Bloc states' political and economical systems and their society models. \"De jure\" often referred to as \"(democratic) people's republics\", these states were ruled by a single Soviet-aligned Marxism–Leninism party, some of which were ruled autocratically and had adapted a form of planned economy and propagated socialism and/or communism as their ideology. The term \"real (-ly existing) socialism\" was introduced to explain the obvious gap between the propagated ideological framework and the political and economical reality faced by these states' societies.\n\nAnother aspect of the term real socialism contained elements of the Sino-Soviet split and other \"disagreements\", which were actually ideological gulfs, between the Soviet Union and its satellite states on one side and the People's Republic of China and the followers of a more Maoist brand of communist ideology on the other. The Soviets wished to enforce the idea that their version of socialism was \"real\" and the Chinese and their followers were not, precisely because the Maoist-inspired communist movement, which had grown so rapidly worldwide as a \"radical left\" alternative to Soviet ideas, had consistently claimed that the Soviet Union was no longer socialist and had betrayed the revolution. To counter this claim of Marxist revisionism, the Soviets defiantly claimed that their socialism was \"real socialism\", implying that other models of socialism were unrealistic.\n\nThe term was also used in an ironical criticism. The \"reality\" of \"real socialism\" was used against it. In particular, the term became a target of numerous political jokes in the Soviet Union, the following being typical examples.\n\n\nThe term \"actually existing socialism\" was often used by orthodox communists in the West to attack either their external (typically Trotskyist) opponents or their internal (typically Eurocommunist) critics. The achievement of \"actual\" socialism being used as a counter to these groups' critiques of repression inside the \"socialist countries\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "324956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=324956", "title": "Rise of Rome", "text": "Rise of Rome\n\nThe rise of Rome covers the period in which the Roman Republic and Empire came to dominate Europe, North Africa and the Near East. The rise of the Roman Republic began with the overthrow of Lucius Tarquinius in 753 BC and ended with the formation of the Roman Empire in 27 BC. The rise of the Roman Empire continued growth started with the Republic. Roman imperialism peaked during the reign of Trajan, the last Roman emperor to add significant territory to the Empire. It is the subject of a great deal of analysis by historians, military strategists, political scientists, and increasingly also some economists.\n\nThe exact causes and motivations for Rome's military conflicts and expansions during the republic are subject to wide debate. While they can be seen as motivated by outright aggression and imperialism, historians typically take a much more nuanced view. They argue that Rome's expansion was driven by short-term defensive decisions and the new contingencies that these decisions created. In its early history, Rome defended itself against foreign threats in central and northern Italy. City-states that the Romans defeated began to make alliances with the Romans. As such, early republican Rome was not an \"empire\" or \"state\" in the modern sense, but an alliance of independent city-states with varying degrees of independence engaged in an alliance of mutual self-protection led by Rome. With some important exceptions, wars Rome's early history led not to annexation or military occupation, but to the restoration of the way things were because of this. However, the defeated city-state would be weakened and less able to resist Romanization. It was also less able to defend itself against its enemies. As a result, the city-state was more likely to seek an alliance with Rome.\n\nThis growing coalition expanded the potential enemies that Rome might face, and moved Rome closer to confrontation with major powers. The result was more alliance-seeking, on the part of both the Roman confederacy and city-states seeking membership. While there were exceptions to this (such as military rule of Sicily after the First Punic War), it was not until after the Second Punic War that these alliances started to harden into something more like an empire.\n\nIn contrast, Roman expansion into Hispania and Gaul occurred as a mix of alliance-seeking and military occupation. In the 2nd century, Roman involvement in the Greek east remained a matter of alliance-seeking, but this time in the face of major powers that could rival Rome. According to Polybius, who sought to trace how Rome came to dominate Greece in less than a century, this was mainly a matter of several Greek city-states seeking Roman protection against the Macedonians and Seleucids. In contrast to the west, the Greek east had been dominated by empires for centuries, and Roman influence and alliance-seeking led to wars with these empires. This had some similarities to the events in Italy but on a global scale.\n"}
{"id": "42830888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42830888", "title": "Robin Alexander", "text": "Robin Alexander\n\nRobin Alexander is a British educationist and academic known particularly for championing the cause of primary education, for his leadership of the Cambridge Primary Review, and for his research and writing on education policy, culture, curriculum, pedagogy, dialogic teaching and comparative and international education. He is currently Fellow of Wolfson College at the University of Cambridge, Honorary Professor of Education at the University of York, Professor of Education Emeritus at the University of Warwick and Chair of the Cambridge Primary Review Trust. In 2011 he was elected Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), the UK’s national academy for the humanities and social sciences.\n\nThe son of artist Isabel Alexander and documentary film-maker Donald Alexander, he was born in 1941 and educated at the Perse School and the universities of Cambridge (Downing College, MA, PhD, LittD), Durham (PGCE), London (Ac Dip Ed) and Manchester (MEd), and at Trinity College of Music (ATCL). He taught in schools and colleges before moving to the universities of Leeds (1977–95) and Warwick (1995-2001), at both of which he was Professor of Education. In 2001 he moved to Cambridge University, as Visiting Fellow of Hughes Hall (2001-2), Leverhulme Emeritus Fellow (2002-4), Fellow of Wolfson College (since 2004), Professorial Director of Research in the Faculty of Education (2006–10) and Director of the Cambridge Primary Review (2006–12). Since 2013 he has combined his Cambridge affiliation with an honorary chair at the University of York and leadership of the Cambridge Primary Review Trust (CPRT), a not-for-profit company dedicated to building on the work of the Cambridge Primary Review. At the University of York he also co-directs the joint CPRT/IEE project on dialogic teaching and social disadvantage, funded 2014-16 by the Education Endowment Foundation.\n\nCouncil for National Academic Awards (CNAA) (1975–84); Chair, Association for the Study of Primary Education, 1987-9; Council for the Accreditation of Teacher Education (CATE) (1989–94); Department for Education and Science (DES) ‘three wise men’ enquiry into primary education (1991-2); BFI/TES Warnock Commission on the Teaching of English (1992-3); Government of India District Primary Education Programme and Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, technical support on behalf of the European Commission (EC) and the Department for International Development (DfID) (1995-2005); Board of the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA) (1997-2002); adviser to Hong Kong Council for Academic Accreditation and University Grants Committee (Hong Kong) (1999-2005); Office for Standards in Education (Ofsted) enquiry into the Education of Six-Year Olds in England, Denmark and Finland (2002-3); Director, Dialogos UK Ltd (2004-); Director, Cambridge Primary Review, 2006–12; President, British Association for International and Comparative Education, 2008-9; Court, Bishop Grosseteste University (2011-); International Steering Committee, Van Leer Jerusalem Institute (2012–13); Chair, Director and Trustee, Cambridge Primary Review Trust (2012–16); Strategic Committee, Expert Subject Advisory Groups (ESAG) (2013 -); Board of Governors, Bath Spa University (2013-); Vice-President, Early Education (2014-15); Board of Trustees, Children and the Arts, formerly the Prince’s Foundation for Children and the Arts (2014-).\n\nAlexander’s research has yielded over 270 publications. These deal mainly with pedagogy and classroom research, discourse analysis and classroom talk reform, curriculum, the educational policy process and its impact, and international, comparative and development education. Much of this work has focused on the primary phase of schooling. His books and monographs include: \"Professional Studies for Teaching\" (1979); \"Developments in PGCE Courses\" (1980); \"Advanced Study for Teachers\" (1981); \"The Self-Evaluating Institution\" (1982); \"Primary Teaching\" (1984); \"Change in Teacher Education\" (1984); \"Changing Primary Practice\" (1989); \"Policy and Practice in Primary Education\" (1992); \"Curriculum Organisation and Classroom Practice in Primary Schools\" (1992); \"Innocence and Experience: reconstructing primary education\" (1994); \"Versions of Primary Education\" (1995); \"Other Primary Schools and Ours: hazards of international comparison\" (1996); \"Policy and Practice in Primary Education: local initiative, national agenda\" (1997); \"Time for Change: curriculum managers at work\" (1998); \"Education for All, the Quality Imperative and the Problem of Pedagogy\" (1998); \"Learning from Comparing: new directions in comparative educational research: Volume 1, Contexts, Classrooms and Outcomes\" (1999), \"Volume 2, Policy, Professionals and development\" (2000); \"Culture and Pedagogy\" (2001); \"Towards Dialogic Teaching\" (2004, 4th edition 2008); \"Education as Dialogue: moral and pedagogical choices for a runaway world\" (2006); \"Essays on Pedagogy\" (2008); \"Children, their World, their Education: final report and recommendations of the Cambridge Primary Review\" (2010); \"The Cambridge Primary Review Research Surveys\" (2010). He has been an occasional columnist for the \"Times Educational Supplement\", \"The Guardian\" and other national newspapers and both edits and contributes to the weekly CPRT Blog.\n\nAmerican Educational Research Association (AERA) Outstanding Book Award (for Culture and Pedagogy), 2001; Society for Educational Studies Book Awards, First Prize (for Culture and Pedagogy ), 2002; Sir Edward Youde Memorial Visiting Professor, Hong Kong Institute of Education, 2005-6; Honorary Fellow (FCollT), the College of Teachers, 2009; Honorary doctorates from Manchester Metropolitan University and Bishop Grosseteste University, 2010; Association for Managers in Education (AMiE) Award for Services to Education, 2011; Miegunyah Distinguished Visiting Fellow, University of Melbourne, 2010; C.K.Koh Visiting Professor, National Institute of Education, Singapore, 2010; Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (FAcSS), 2011; Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), 2011; National Union of Teachers, Fred and Anne Jarvis Award for Campaigning for Education, 2011; Society for Educational Studies Book Awards, First Prize (for Children, their World, their Education), 2011; Cambridge Journal of Education Best Paper Prize, 2011; BERA/Sage Public Impact Award for initiation and leadership of the Cambridge Primary Review and Cambridge Primary Review Trust (2015).\n\n"}
{"id": "57232676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57232676", "title": "The Forgotten Man (painting)", "text": "The Forgotten Man (painting)\n\nThe Forgotten Man is a 2010 painting by the American artist Jon McNaughton. It depicts President Barack Obama standing in front of the White House. The subject matter of the painting was inspired by the passage of the Affordable Care Act. McNaughton unveiled the painting in a YouTube video on September 14, 2010. It was the second in a series of politically charged portraits painted by McNaughton.\n\nThe 43 men who as of 2010 had served as President of the United States are gathered in a park in front of the White House, above which the American flag can be seen, at half mast. In general, the 18th and 19th century presidents are on the left, the later ones on the right, some appear lost in thought while others, Bill Clinton and the two Roosevelts, are applauding. The only non-president in the painting is a young white man, who sits alone on a park bench, hunched over in despair, contemplating his future. Some of the presidents, including Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln and Reagan reach out to him, while looking toward Barack Obama who stands in the foreground right. James Madison, the Father of the Constitution, is outraged by Obama's actions, for beneath Obama's foot is the U.S. Constitution. Scattered on the ground are dollar bills, laws and amendments that form part of the Bill of Rights.\n\nThe painting gained initial notoriety in 2010 when it was featured on MSNBC television host Rachel Maddow's blog as part of a caption contest. In 2012, it drew satirical praise during an episode of \"The Colbert Report\" from Stephen Colbert's conservative persona.\n\nAfter being purchased by conservative commentator Sean Hannity in 2016, \"The Forgotten Man\" was rumored to have been bought as a gift for then President-elect Donald Trump, though a spokesperson for Fox News (Hannity's employer) later clarified that the painting was never intended to be given as a gift.\n\nThe painting has drawn comparisons to a 1934 Maynard Dixon painting of the same name.\n\n"}
{"id": "23241251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23241251", "title": "Tortilleria", "text": "Tortilleria\n\nA tortilleria, or tortilla bakery is a shop that produces and sells freshly made tortillas. Tortillerias are native to Mexico and Central America, and some are being established in some areas of the United States. Tortillerias usually sell corn tortillas by weight. The recipe for tortilla dough, called masa, has not changed since ancient times; it is corn which has been treated with slaked lime and water.\n\nSome tortillerias produce tortillas from pre-made masa dough, others produce masa dough in-house from dried masa flour called masa harina, and others use the traditional method of soaking corn with lime.\n\nCorn was subsidized in Mexico from 1974 to 1999, and the price of tortillas was capped by law. When subsidies and price controls ended, tortillerias had to adapt. The end of the subsidy was met with mixed reception. Some tortilleria owners saw the move as an opportunity to retain jobs and increase profits, while others expressed concern that higher tortilla prices would hurt low-income families who relied on tortillas as a staple food. \n\nBefore the end of subsidies many local tortillerias purchased prepared fresh masa dough from centralized mills, since government-subsidized corn was provided directly to these mills. After the end of subsidies dried masa harina flour was used, as dough mills lost their price advantage. Dried masa harina keeps much better than prepared masa. To encourage the switch to dry masa harina, manufacturers such as Maseca offered credits to tortillerias to upgrade to equipment capable of processing masa harina.\n\n"}
{"id": "247095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=247095", "title": "Treasury", "text": "Treasury\n\nA treasury is either\n\nThe head of a treasury is typically known as a treasurer. This position may not necessarily have the final control over the actions of the treasury, particularly if they are not an elected representative.\n\nThe adjective for a treasury is normally treasurial. The adjective \"tresorial\" can also be used, but this normally means pertaining to a \"treasurer\".\n\nThe earliest found artefacts made of silver and gold are from Lake Varna in Bulgaria dated 4250–4000 BC, the earliest of copper are dated 9000–7000 BC.\n\nThe term \"treasury\" was first used in Classical times to describe the votive buildings erected to house gifts to the gods, such as the Siphnian Treasury in Delphi or many similar buildings erected in Olympia, Greece by competing city-states to impress others during the ancient Olympic Games. In Ancient Greece treasuries were almost always physically incorporated within religious buildings such as temples, thus making state funds sacrosanct and adding moral constraints to the penal ones to those who would have access to these funds.\n\nThe sovereigns' treasury within the palace in ancient Jerusalem, is considered to be similar in nature to the temple treasury. The temple treasury of the settlement had appointed officials and functioned akin to a bank.\n\nIn excavations of Persepolis a text containing information pertaining to the activities of a temple treasury were discovered dated to the fifth century BC. The texts written in the Elamite language name the treasurer as \"\" \n\nThe ancient Roman word \"aerarium\" signified the treasury of the Senate, \"fiscus\" was used to indicate the imperial treasury used by Caesar.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Her Majesty's Treasury is overseen by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The traditional honorary title of First Lord of the Treasury is held by the Prime Minister. Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs administers the taxation system.\n\nIn the United States, the Treasurer reports to an executive-appointed Secretary of the Treasury. The IRS is the revenue agency of the US Department of the Treasury.\n\nIn many other countries, the treasury is called the \"ministry of finance\" and the head is known as the finance minister. Examples include the Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belgium, Spain, Italy, New Zealand, Ghana, Canada, Malaysia, Singapore, India, Japan, the Netherlands, Pakistan and Zimbabwe.\n\nIn some other countries, a \"Treasury\" will exist alongside a separate \"Ministry of Finance\", with divided functions.\n\nThe government of Poland includes the Ministry of Finance as well as the Ministry of State Treasury, as does the government of Ukraine. It was the same in Italy before the creation of the united Ministry of Economy.\n\nIn the Australian federal government a treasurer and a finance minister co-exist. The Department of the Treasury is responsible for drafting the government budget, economic policy (except monetary policy), some market regulation and revenue policy (which is administered by the Australian Taxation Office). The Finance Minister, who manages the Department of Finance and Deregulation, is responsible for budget management, government expenditure and market deregulation.\n"}
{"id": "16792088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16792088", "title": "Vice President of Rwanda", "text": "Vice President of Rwanda\n\nVice President of Rwanda was a political position in Rwanda created for Paul Kagame from 1994 to 2000. The office was abolished in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "19471245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19471245", "title": "Vienna Literary Agreement", "text": "Vienna Literary Agreement\n\nThe Vienna Literary Agreement (Serbo-Croatian Latin: \"Bečki književni dogovor\", Cyrillic: Бечки књижевни договор) was the result of a meeting held in March 1850, when writers from Croatia, Serbia, and one from Slovenia met to discuss the extent to which their literatures could be conjoined and united, and to standardize a Serbo-Croatian language. The agreement recognized the commonality of South Slavic dialects and enumerated a basic set of grammar rules which they shared.\n\nThe first half of 19th century proved to be a turning point in Illyrian language conceptions. Around this time, Illyrians held individual debates with their opponents, and Zagreb, as the center of Croatian cultural and literary life, served as a stronghold for their implementation and propagation. However, with the years some of their adherents came to recognize the infeasibility of linguistic and literary unification of all South Slavs, realizing that the only real option left would be the creation of a common literary language for Croats and Serbs, which have in common both the Shtokavian dialect and Ijekavian accent.\n\nIn March 1850, the meeting was organized and attended by the self-taught Serbian linguist and folklorist Vuk Stefanović Karadžić, his close follower Đuro Daničić; the most eminent Slavist of the period, Slovene Franc Miklošič, and Croatians represented by Ivan Kukuljević Sakcinski, Dimitrije Demeter, Ivan Mažuranić, Vinko Pacel, and Stjepan Pejaković.\n\nGeneral guidelines for the conceived development of the common literary language for Croats and Serbs were agreed on; these were in accordance with Karadžić's basic linguistic and orthographic premises, and they partly corresponded with the fundamental Croatian Neo-Shtokavian pre-Illyrian literary language which the concept of Illyrian suppressed at the expense of South-Slavic commonality.\n\nThe signatories agreed on five points:\n\nDuring the second half of the 19th century, these conclusions were publicly called a \"declaration\" (\"objava\") or \"statement\" (\"izjava\"). The title \"Vienna Literary Agreement\" dates from the 20th century.\n\nThe Vienna Literary Agreement was variously interpreted and referred to throughout the history of Croats, Slovenes, and Serbs. During the history of the Yugoslavias, especially the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the official doctrine was that the agreement set firm grounds for the final codification of the Croatian language and the Serbian language that soon followed. With the advent of national standard languages, i.e. Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian in the 1990s, criticism emerged on the relevance of the agreement.\n\nFor example, according to Malić, the event had no critical influence for the Croatian cultural milieu, but \"managed to indicate developmental tendencies in the formation of the Croatian literary language which won out by the end of the century\". Malić argues that it was only during the 20th century, in the framework of \"unitarist language conceptions and language policy\", that the meeting was given critical influence in the formation of a common Croatian and Serbian literary language.\n\nSince the agreement was not officially organized, no one was bound by it, and thus it was not initially accepted by either the Croatian or the Serbian press. Croatia still had a very lively Illyrian conception of language, and the conservative Serbian cultural milieu was not ready to accept Karadžić's views of folk language being literary. It was only in 1868 that his reform was accepted in Serbia, and not to a complete extent (the Ekavian accent was accepted as standard, rather than Ijekavian), and urban colloquial speech was tacitly given great influence in forming the standard language.\n\n"}
{"id": "149006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149006", "title": "Vivienne Westwood", "text": "Vivienne Westwood\n\nDame Vivienne Isabel Westwood (née Swire; born 8 April 1941) is a British fashion designer and businesswoman, largely responsible for bringing modern punk and new wave fashions into the mainstream.\n\nWestwood came to public notice when she made clothes for Malcolm McLaren's boutique in the King's Road, which became known as \"SEX\". It was their ability to synthesise clothing and music that shaped the 1970s UK punk scene, dominated by McLaren's band, the Sex Pistols. She was inspired by the shock-value of punk—\"seeing if one could put a spoke in the system\".\n\nWestwood went on to open four shops in London, eventually expanding throughout the United Kingdom and the world, selling an increasingly varied range of merchandise, some of it linked to her many political causes such as the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, climate change and civil rights groups.\n\nWestwood was born in the village of Tintwistle, Cheshire, on 8 April 1941, the daughter of Gordon Swire and Dora Swire (née Ball), who had married two years previously, two weeks after the outbreak of World War II. At the time of Vivienne's birth, her father was employed as a storekeeper in an aircraft factory; he had previously worked as a greengrocer.\n\nShe attended Glossop Grammar School. In 1958, her family moved to Harrow, Middlesex. She studied silversmithing at Harrow School of Art but left after one term, saying later, \"I didn't know how a working-class girl like me could possibly make a living in the art world\". After taking up a job in a factory and studying at a teacher-training college, she became a primary school teacher. During this period, she created her own jewellery, which she sold at a stall on Portobello Road. While she continued teaching and simultaneously making jewellery, this led to her discovering design when she met Malcolm McLaren who became a major inspiration to her designs in punk fashion.\n\nIn 1962, she met Derek Westwood, a Hoover factory apprentice, in Harrow. They married on 21 July 1962; Westwood made her own wedding dress. In 1963, she gave birth to a son, Benjamin (Ben) Westwood.\n\nOnce she met Malcolm McLaren, it meant the end of Westwood's marriage to Derek. Westwood and McLaren moved to a council flat in Clapham, and while living there, they had a son together in 1967, Joseph Corré. Westwood continued to teach until 1971; she created clothes which McLaren designed. McLaren became manager of the punk band the Sex Pistols and subsequently the two garnered attention as the band wore Westwood's and McLaren's designs.\n\nWestwood was one of the architects of the punk fashion phenomenon of the 1970s, saying \"I was messianic about punk, seeing if one could put a spoke in the system in some way\".\n\nWestwood was the designer who often let her clothes speak for themselves, as independent designs and as her own statements of culture. This idea that she uses her clothing as a statement of her own is a motif consistent throughout her time as a designer. Although this is also a factor as to why she was ridiculed as a designer, it was such a strong proclamation to his and her designs that she remained this way within her collections. This idea partially was attributed to her past collaborations with Gary Ness, who assisted Westwood throughout her designing with inspirations and titles for her collections.\n\nMcLaren and Westwood's first fashion collection to be shown to press and potential international buyers was Pirate. Subsequently, the partnership of McLaren and Westwood - which was underlined by the fact that both their names appeared on all labelling - showed collections in Paris and London with the thematic titles Savages (shown late 1981), Buffalo/Nostalgia Of Mud (shown spring 1982), Punkature (shown late 1982), Witches (shown early 1983) and Worlds End 1984 (later renamed Hypnos, shown late 1983). After the partnership with McLaren was dissolved, Westwood showed one more collection featuring the Worlds End label: \"Clint Eastwood\" (late 1984-early 1985).\n\nShe dubbed the period 1981-85 \"New Romantic\" and 1988–91 as \"The Pagan Years\" during which \"Vivienne's heroes changed from punks and ragamuffins to 'Tatler' girls wearing clothes that parodied the upper class\". From 1985-87, Westwood took inspiration from the ballet \"Petrushka\" to design the mini-crini, an abbreviated version of the Victorian crinoline.\n\nIts mini-length, bouffant silhouette inspired the puffball skirts widely presented by more established designers such as Christian Lacroix. The mini-crini was described in 1989 as a combination of two conflicting ideals - the crinoline, representing a \"mythology of restriction and encumbrance in woman's dress\", and the miniskirt, representing an \"equally dubious mythology of liberation\".\n\nIn 2007, Westwood was called upon to design an academic gown of a prestigious academic institution. She was approached by Patricia Rawlings, Baroness Rawlings, then Chairperson of King's College London after King's successfully petitioned the Privy Council for its own right to award degree-awarding powers in its own right. In 2008, the Westwood-designed academic dresses for King's College London have been unveiled. On the gowns, Westwood commented: \"Through my reworking of the traditional robe I tried to link the past, the present and the future. We are what we know.\"\n\nWestwood received an Honorary Doctorate from Heriot-Watt University in 2008, she was made a Doctor of Letters at the campus in Galashiels for her contribution to the industry and use of Scottish textiles \n\nIn July 2011, Westwood's collections were presented at the catwalk of The Brandery fashion show in Barcelona.\n\nOne of Westwood’s first immersion into the fashion world began during the punk era, where she dabbled in both men’s and women’s design, specifically in uniforms which combined her forties dressmaking with touches of Savile Row. She closely worked with Richard Branson on this collection. These pieces were more functional designs of Westwood, as they were primarily for work but still contained her flair as a designer. Clothes for the female crew included a red suit, accentuating the women’s curves and hips, and strategically places darts around the busts. Contrary to the men’s grey and burgundy three-piece suit with various details in lapels and pockets.\nThese two designers also focused on impacting the environment, as they were both passionate about using sustainable materials throughout their designs. As they worked with Virgin Atlantic on the functional crew designs, each look featured Closed Loop Recycling and maximum sustainability in recycled polyester. Before fully launching the designs, Westwood and Branson released some for a trial period with the pilot and cabin crew to allow for design changes to be made accordingly. This project was important to these two designers because this project shared the spirit of adventure that these two employed, as this challenged them to create something even more memorable.\n\nIn August 2011 Westwood's company Vivienne Westwood Ltd agreed to pay almost £350,000 in tax to HM Revenue & Customs for significantly underestimating the value of her brand. Her UK business had sold the rights to her trademarks to Luxembourg-based Latimo, which she controls, for £840,000 in 2002. After examining the deal HMRC argued that Westwood's brand had been undervalued, and, after negotiation, the two sides agreed that her trademarks were worth more than double that amount. The £2m valuation triggered an additional tax bill of £348,463 plus interest of £144,112, which fell due in 2009.\n\nIn March 2012, Vivienne Westwood Group reached agreement to end a long-standing UK franchise relationship with Manchester-based Hervia. The deal brought to a conclusion a legal wrangle which included Hervia issuing High Court proceedings for alleged breach of contract, after Westwood sought to end the franchise deal before the agreed term. It was reported that a financial settlement was reached between the parties. Hervia operated seven stores for the fashion chain on a franchise basis.\n\nIn 2013, the transition of some of the Hervia stores to Westwood, along with cost-savings, was credited for a jump in Vivienne Westwood Ltd's pre-tax profits to £5 million from £527,6783 the previous year, with annual group sales of £30.1 million up from £25.4 million.\n\nIn 2014, the company results showed “disappointing” sales with a dip of 2% to £29.5 million and a fall of 36% in pre-tax profits to £3.2 million in 2013, according to accounts posted at Companies House. The company announced: “Over the last year margins have been under pressure due to the nature of wider retail conditions.”\n\nIn June 2013 Westwood announced she was shunning further expansion of her business as a way of tackling environmental and sustainability issues.\n\nIn March 2015, the company announced that it is opening a three-storey outlet in midtown Manhattan in late 2015. This was scheduled to be followed by a new 3,200 sq ft shop in a building also housing the company's offices and showrooms in Rue Saint-Honoré in Paris, due to open in early 2016.\n\nIn 2015, Vivienne Westwood Ltd operated 12 retail outlets in the UK, including an outlet store in Bicester Village. There are currently 63 Westwood outlets worldwide including 9 in China; 9 in Hong Kong; 18 in South Korea; six in Taiwan; two in Thailand; and two in the US: one in Los Angeles and the other in Hawaii.\n\nIn June 2015, Vivienne Westwood Ltd reported a profits dip from £3.2m to £2.9m in 2014, despite an 8.4% jump in sales to £32m. VWL paid £1.6m in licence fees to Latimo in 2014 and £646,033 in UK corporation tax last year, a 17% fall from the year before.\n\nSeveral media outlets reported in 2015 that the latest accounts for Vivienne Westwood Ltd showed the company pays £2 million a year to offshore company Latimo, which was set up in Luxembourg for the right to use her name on her own fashion label. Latimo, which Westwood controls as the majority shareholder in her companies, was set up in 2002.\n\nSuch arrangements, while legal, are against the Green Party policy to crack down heavily on usage of tax havens such as Luxembourg.\n\nWestwood stressed that she paid income tax though did not address the issue of her corporate tax arrangements: \"It is important to me that my business affairs are in line with my personal values. I am subject to UK tax on all of my income,\" she said in March 2015. She published a statement which indicated that her corporate tax arrangements are being restructured as a result of the expose.\n\nMarion Cotillard wore a Westwood red satin strapless dress at the London premiere of her film \"Public Enemies\" in 2009. In 2013, she wore a Westwood Couture pink and ivory striped dress at the Chopard Lunch in Cannes.\n\nPrincess Eugenie wore three Westwood designs for the pre-wedding dinner, the wedding ceremony and the after-wedding party at the 2011 royal wedding.\n\nCamilla, Duchess of Cornwall, wore Westwood to Royal Ascot in 2009.\n\nPharrell Williams wore a Westwood Buffalo hat to the 2014 56th Annual Grammy Awards that was originally in her 1982-83 collection. The hat was so popular that it inspired its own Twitter account. Pharrell was first seen wearing a similar Westwood Buffalo hat in 2009.\n\nWestwood's designs were featured in the 2008 film adaptation of the television series \"Sex and the City\". In the film, Carrie Bradshaw becomes engaged to long-term lover Mr. Big. Being a writer at \"Vogue\", she is invited by her editor to model wedding dresses, including a design made by Westwood. The dress is subsequently sent to Carrie as a gift, with a handwritten note from Westwood herself, and Carrie decides to use the Westwood gown. The wedding dress has been described as one of the movie's most iconic features, leading Westwood to approach the producers about being involved in making a sequel.\n\nIn April 1989 Westwood appeared on the cover of \"Tatler\" dressed as then-Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. The suit that Westwood wore had been ordered for Thatcher but had not yet been delivered. The cover, which bore the caption \"This woman was once a punk\", was included in \"The Guardian\"s list of the best ever UK magazine covers.\n\nDame Vivienne stated on television in 2007 that she had transferred her long-standing support for the Labour Party to the Conservative Party, over the issues of civil liberties and human rights. Since early 2015, she has been a supporter of the Green Party of England and Wales.\n\nOn Easter Sunday 2008, she campaigned in person at the biggest Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament demonstration in ten years, at the Atomic Weapons Establishment, Aldermaston, Berkshire.\n\nIn September 2005, Westwood joined forces with the British civil rights group Liberty and launched exclusive limited design T-shirts and baby wear bearing the slogan \"I AM NOT A TERRORIST, please don't arrest me\". She said she was supporting the campaign and defending habeas corpus. \"When I was a schoolgirl, my history teacher, Mr. Scott, began to take classes in civic affairs. The first thing he explained to us was the fundamental rule of law embodied in \"habeas corpus\". He spoke with pride of civilisation and democracy. The hatred of arbitrary arrest by the \"lettres de cachet\" of the French monarchy caused the storming of the Bastille. We can only take democracy for granted if we insist on our liberty\", she said. The sale of the £50 T-shirts raised funds for the organisation.\n\nIn June 2013, Westwood dedicated one of her collections to Chelsea Manning and at her fashion show she and all of her models wore large image badges of Manning with the word \"TRUTH\" under her picture. In 2014, she cut off her hair to highlight the dangers of climate change. She also appeared in a PETA ad campaign to promote World Water Day and vegetarianism, drawing attention to the meat industry's water consumption.\n\nIn 2014, Westwood became ambassador for clean energy Trillion Fund.\n\nIn June 2017, Westwood endorsed Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn for the 2017 UK general election. She said, \"I'm excited about the Labour Party manifesto because it's all about the fair distribution of wealth.\" She added \"Jeremy clearly wants to go green and creating a fair distribution of wealth is the place to start, from there we can build a green economy which will secure our future.\"\n\nIn January 2015, Westwood announced her support of the Green Party of England and Wales: \"I am investing in the Green Party because I believe it is in the best interests of our country and our economy'.\n\nIt was reported that she had donated £300,000 to fund the party's election campaign.\n\nIn February 2015, Westwood was announced as the special guest on the Greens' \"We Are The Revolution\" campaigning tour of English universities in such cities as Liverpool, Norwich, Brighton and Sheffield.\n\nOn the eve of the tour, Westwood was excluded from appearing by the youth wing of the Green Party on the basis that her corporate avoidance of UK tax contravenes party policy on usage of off-shore havens. She later condemned this as \"a wasted opportunity\" for the Greens. \"I wasn't pure enough for them\", she wrote in her online diary.\n\nSubsequently, Westwood switched her support to campaigning on behalf of Nigel Askew, the Reality Party candidate opposing UKIP leader Nigel Farage in the Kent constituency of Thanet South. Askew polled 126 votes in the election.\n\nIn a 2007 interview Westwood spoke out against what she perceive as the \"drug of consumerism\", and in 2009 she attended the première of \"The Age of Stupid\", a film aimed at motivating the public to act against climate change.\n\nShe later created a manifesto called \"Active Resistance to Propaganda\", which she says deals with the pursuit of art in relation to the human predicament and climate change. In her manifesto, she makes the claim that it \"penetrates to the root of the human predicament and offers the underlying solution. We have the choice to become more cultivated and therefore more human – or by muddling along as usual we shall remain the destructive and self-destroying animal, the victim of our own cleverness.\"\n\nAgainst the claim that anti-consumerism and fashion contradict each other, she said in 2007: \"I don't feel comfortable defending my clothes. But if you've got the money to afford them, then buy something from me. Just don't buy too much.\" She faces criticism from eco-activists who claim that despite her calls to save the environment she herself makes no concessions to making her clothing or her business eco-friendly.\n\nIn 2013, sustainable luxury fashion publication Eluxe Magazine accused Westwood of using the green movement as a marketing tool on the basis that certain Westwood fashion and accessories lines are made in China. These were found to include PVC, polyester, rayon and viscose, all derived from harmful chemicals. Eluxe also pointed out that, in spite of Westwood's statements that consumers should 'buy less', her company produces nine collections a year (compared to the average designer's two) Vivienne Westwood was also accused of using unpaid interns in her fashions house and making them work over 40 hours per week, some interns have complained about how they had been treated by the fashion house.\n\nIn 2014, as part of her Spring/Summer 15 collection, Westwood collaborated with the nonprofit organization Farms Not Factories. Unveiled at Milan Fashion Week, the T-shirts and tote bags were produced using ethically sourced organic cotton.\n\nWestwood is also a noted author of books, such as \"Fashion in art\", in which she explores the worlds of fashion and arts, the untimely interlinking of both worlds.\n\nIn 1992, Westwood was awarded an OBE, which she collected from Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace. At the ceremony, Westwood was knicker-less, which was later captured by a photographer in the courtyard of Buckingham Palace. Westwood later said, \"I wished to show off my outfit by twirling the skirt. It did not occur to me that, as the photographers were practically on their knees, the result would be more glamorous than I expected,\" and added: \"I have heard that the picture amused the Queen.\" Westwood advanced from OBE to DBE in the 2006 New Year's Honours List \"for services to fashion\", and has twice earned the award for British Designer of the Year.\n\nIn 2012, Westwood was among the British cultural icons selected by artist Sir Peter Blake to appear in a new version of his most famous artwork – the Beatles' \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" album cover – to celebrate the British cultural figures of his life that he most admires. Also in 2012, Westwood was chosen as one of \"The New Elizabethans\" to mark the diamond Jubilee of Queen Elizabeth II. A panel of seven academics, journalists and historians named Westwood among a group of 60 people in the UK \"whose actions during the reign of Elizabeth II have had a significant impact on lives in these islands and given the age its character\".\n\nIn October 2014, the authorised biography \"Vivienne Westwood\" by Ian Kelly was published by Picador. Paul Gorman described it as \"sloppy\" and \"riddled with inaccuracies\" on the basis of multiple errors in the book including misspelling the names of popular rock stars “Jimmy” Hendrix and Pete “Townsend” and misidentifying the date of the Sex Pistols’ first concert and McLaren’s age when he died in 2010.\n\nPicador publisher Paul Baggaley told The Bookseller: “We always take very seriously any errors that are brought to our attention and, where appropriate, correct them.\" A spokesman for Pan MacMillan, which published an Australian edition of the biography, confirmed that the matter was being handled by the publisher's lawyers.\n\nIn January 2011, Westwood was featured in a Canadian-made television documentary called \"Vivienne Westwood's London\" in which she takes the viewer through her favourite parts of London, including the Courtauld Institute of Art, the Wallace Collection, Whitechapel (accompanied by Sarah Stockbridge), Hampton Court, the London Symphony Orchestra, Brixton Market and Electric Avenue, and the National Gallery.\n\nIn 2018 a documentary film about her, called \"Westwood: Punk, Icon, Activist\", premiered.\n\nWestwood is married to her former fashion student, Austrian Andreas Kronthaler. For 30 years she lived in an ex-council flat in Nightingale Lane, Clapham, until, in 2000, Kronthaler convinced her to move into a Queen Anne style house built in 1703, which once belonged to the mother of Captain Cook. She is a keen gardener. Westwood is vegetarian as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9350078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9350078", "title": "Walloon Rally", "text": "Walloon Rally\n\nThe Walloon Rally (; RW) is a regionalist political party in Belgium, active in Wallonia since 1968. The party favoured federalism and since 1985 independence.\n\nFounded on 7 March 1968, the party contested the Belgian general election of 1968 in a cartel with the FDF, a Brussels-based francophone political party, receiving 5.9% of the vote nationally. The party's own results in elections to the Belgian Federal Parliament were as follows.\nThe increasing federalisation of Belgium, and the adoption of some of the party's policies by the traditional francophone parties, resulted in a sharp decline in electoral support from 1977 onwards. A split in the early 1980s created the Walloon Popular Rally, a more left-wing grouping, which later merged with the Socialist Party. The Wallonia-France Rally, which supports the union of Wallonia and France, was formed by the rump of the party's membership in 1999. Afterwards, the Walloon Rally left the WFR and formed Union For Wallonia with the France Party, Wallonia Social Democracy, Get Up Wallonia and the Brussels' Walloons.\n\nIn 2010, Union For Wallonia, which took part in June federal elections under the name W+, was renamed Walloon Rally, which was its largest component.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2016440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2016440", "title": "Women for the Future", "text": "Women for the Future\n\nAll-Ukrainian Political Union Women for the Future () is a political party in Ukraine registered on 30 March 2001. The party was created by Lyudmila Kuchma, a wife of the then serving President of Ukraine Leonid Kuchma. Among notable party candidates was Dmytro Firtash.\n\nAt the legislative elections of 30 March 2002, the party won 2.1% of the popular vote and no seats; although final poll results had predicted 5% till 6% of the total votes for the party. At the legislative elections of 26 March 2006, the party was part of the Opposition Bloc \"Ne Tak\". The party did not participate in the 2007 elections.\n\n"}
