{"id": "424421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424421", "title": "160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment (Airborne)", "text": "160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment (Airborne)\n\nThe United States Army 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment (Airborne), abbreviated as the 160th SOAR (A) and also known as Night Stalkers, or within JSOC as Task Force Brown, is a special operations force of the United States Army that provides helicopter aviation support for general purpose forces and special operations forces. \n\nIts missions have included attack, assault, and reconnaissance, and are usually conducted at night, at high speeds, low altitudes, and on short notice. The 160th SOAR is headquartered at Fort Campbell, Kentucky.\n\nThe 160th SOAR (A) consists of the Army's best-qualified aviators, crew chiefs, and support soldiers. Officers volunteer while enlisted soldiers volunteer or are assigned by the U.S. Army Human Resources Command. Until 2013, only men were allowed to be pilots in the 160th.\n\nUpon joining the 160th, all soldiers are assigned to \"Green Platoon\", in which they receive intensive training in \"advanced methods of the five basic combat skills: first responder, land navigation, combatives, weapons and teamwork\". The weapons training includes firing hundreds of rounds with the M9 pistol, M4 carbine, and AK-47 rifle. Soldiers who fail to pass the course a first time may retake it, but there is no guarantee that anyone assigned to Green Platoon will pass and continue on with the 160th. The basic Night Stalker course for enlisted soldiers lasts five weeks; the officer course lasts 20 to 28 weeks.\n\nA new Night Stalker arrives to a unit Basic Mission Qualified (BMQ). After a series of skills test qualifications, experience, leadership, and oral review boards lasting up to three years, the Night Stalker is designated Fully Mission Qualified (FMQ). After three to five years as an FMQ, the Night Stalker may try out for flight lead qualification.\n\nAfter the 1980 Operation Eagle Claw attempt to rescue American hostages held in Tehran, Iran, failed, President Jimmy Carter ordered former Chief of Naval Operations Adm. James L. Holloway III to figure out how the U.S. military could best mount another attempt. At the time there were no U.S. helicopter units trained in this kind of stealthy, short-notice Special Operations mission.\n\nThe Army looked to the 101st Aviation Group, the air arm of the 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault), which had the most diverse operating experience of the service's helicopter units, and selected elements of the 158th Aviation Battalion, 101st Aviation Battalion, 229th Aviation Battalion, and the 159th Aviation Battalion. The chosen pilots immediately entered intensive training in night flying.\n\nThis provisional unit was dubbed Task Force 158, since most of its pilots were Blackhawk aviators detached from the 158th. Their distinctive 101st \"Screaming Eagle\" patches remained on their uniforms. The Blackhawks and Chinooks continued to operate around Campbell Army Airfield at the north of post, and Saber Army Heliport at the south. The OH-6 Cayuses, aircraft that had vanished from the division's regular inventory after Vietnam, were hidden on base in an ammunition holding area still known as the \"SHOC Pad\", for \"Special Helicopter Operations Company\".\n\nAs the first batch of pilots completed training in the fall of 1980, a second attempt to rescue the hostages was planned for early 1981. Dubbed Operation Honey Badger, it was called off when the hostages were released on the morning of President Ronald Reagan's inauguration.\n\nTask Force 158 was the Army's only special operations aviation unit, and its members had already become recognized as the Army's premier aviation night fighters. Their capability was judged too useful to lose, and so instead of returning to the 101st, the pilots and modified aircraft became a new unit. (Original members of the Night Stalkers refer to it as \"the day the Eagles came off\".) The unit was officially established on 16 October 1981, when it was designated as the 160th Aviation Battalion.\n\nThe 160th first saw combat during 1983's Operation Urgent Fury, the U.S. invasion of Grenada.\n\nIn 1986, it was renamed the 160th Aviation Group (Airborne); and in May 1990, the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment (Airborne). As demand for highly trained special operations aviation assets bloomed, the regiment activated three battalions, a separate detachment, and incorporated one Army National Guard unit, the 1st Battalion, 245th Aviation (OK ARNG).\n\nIn 1987 and 1988, its pilots took part in Operation Earnest Will, the protection of re-flagged Kuwaiti tankers in the Persian Gulf during the Iran–Iraq War. They flew from US Navy warships and leased oil barges in a secret sub-part called Operation Prime Chance, and became the first helicopter pilots to use night vision goggles and forward looking infrared (FLIR) devices in night combat.\n\nIn June 1988, the unit executed Operation Mount Hope III. Two MH-47 crews flew deep into Chad to retrieve a crashed Mi-24 Hind medium-attack helicopter.\n\nThe Night Stalkers spearheaded Operation Just Cause, the 1989 invasion of Panama, and they were also used in Operation Desert Storm in 1991.\n\nIn October 1993 in Somalia, Night Stalkers became involved in the Battle of Mogadishu, which later became the subject of the book \"Black Hawk Down\", and its film adaptation. Two Night Stalker Black Hawks, Super 6-1 (piloted by Cliff Wolcott), and Super 6-4 (piloted by Mike Durant), were shot down in the battle. Five of the eighteen men killed (not counting a nineteenth post-operation casualty) in the Battle of Mogadishu were members of the Night Stalkers team, who were lost along with the two Black Hawks.\n\nDuring the 2001 invasion of Afghanistan, the Night Stalkers from 2nd Battalion supported two task forces established in early October 2001: Dagger and Sword. (Their unit in TF Sword was designated Task Force Brown.) In the evening of 18 October into 19 October 2001, two SOAR MH-47E helicopters, escorted by MH-60L DAPs (Direct Action Penetrators), airlifted U.S. troops from the Karshi-Khanabad Air Base in Uzbekistan more than across the Hindu Kush mountains into Afghanistan. \n\nThe pilots of the Chinooks, flying in zero-visibility conditions, were refueled in flight three times during the 11-hour mission, establishing a new world record for combat rotorcraft. The troops — two 12-man Green Beret teams from the 5th Special Forces Group dubbed Operational Detachment Alpha (ODA) 555 and 595 plus four Air Force Combat Controllers — linked up with the CIA and Northern Alliance. Within a few weeks, the Northern Alliance, assisted by U.S. ground and air forces, captured several key cities from the Taliban.\n\nIn November 2001, Night Stalker AH-6J Little Birds took part in Objective Wolverine and Raptor missions and Operation Relentless Strike.\n\nIn December 2001, Night Stalker crews resupplied more than 150 Delta Force, British Special Boat Service, and CIA Special Activities Division operatives as they hunted for Osama bin Laden in the Tora Bora mountain complex.\n\nIn January 2002, in Afghanistan, Task Force Sword was renamed Task Force 11 and was composed of a DEVGRU and a company of Rangers, and was supported by a company of helicopters from the 160th SOAR. \n\nOn 21 February 2002, while scouting Islamist terrorists on Basilan Island as part of Operation Enduring Freedom – Philippines and seeking to rescue a nurse and an American missionary couple, a MH-47 crashed at sea in the southern Philippines' Bohol Strait, killing 10 servicemen (eight from E company, 160th SOAR and two from the 353rd Special Operations Group). \n\nIn March 2002, Night Stalkers from B Company, 2nd Battalion, 160th SOAR supported coalition troops during Operation Anaconda, particularly at the Battle of Takur Ghar on March 4, where one of their MH-47Es, callsign Razor 03, was damaged by rocket-propelled grenades and crash-landed carrying Mako 30. A second MH-47E, callsign Razor 01, responded to the shootdown with a Quick Reaction Force; it was damaged by small arms and rocket-propelled grenades, and crash-landed. One Night Stalker was killed in the battle.\n\nOn 21 June 2002 in the Philippines, Night Stalker MH-47Es were involved in the operation that killed Abu Sabaya, a senior leader in Abu Sayyef. A U.S. Predator drone marked the person with an infrared laser as he tried to escape in a smuggler's boat. The MH-47Es trained searchlights on the boat while operators from the Philippine Naval Special Operations Group opened fire, killing the terrorist leader and capturing four other terrorists with him.\n\nDuring the 2003 invasion of Iraq, 3rd Battalion, 160th SOAR, deployed as the Joint Special Operations Air Detachment-West under CJSOTF-West (Combined Joint Special Operations Task Force-West/Task Force Dagger). It was equipped with eight MH-47E Chinooks, four MH-60L DAPs, and two MH-60M Black Hawks. At 9 p.m. on 19 March 2003, the first strike of Operation Iraqi Freedom was carried out by members of the 160th SOAR, on Iraqi visual observation posts along the southern and western borders of Iraq. The strike groups included one flight of MH-60L DAPs and four \"Black Swarm\" flights, each consisting of a pair of AH-6M Little Birds; a FLIR-equipped, target-spotting MH-6M; and a pair of U.S. Air Force A-10As.\n\nIn seven hours, more than 70 sites were destroyed, effectively depriving the Iraqi military of any early warning of the coming invasion. As the sites were eliminated the first heliborne SOF teams launched from H-5 airbase in Jordan, including vehicle-mounted patrols from the British and Australian special forces, who were transported by the MH-47Es of the 160th SOAR. Nightstalkers from 1st Battalion 160th SOAR were tasked with supporting Task Force 20 with its MH-60M Blackhawks, MH-60L DAPs, MH-6M transport and AH-6M Little Birds; they were based at Ar'Ar. On March 26, the 160th SOAR took part in the Objective Beaver mission, a raid by DEVGRU on a complex known as al Qadisiyah Research Centre that was suspected to have stocks of chemical and biological weapons.\n\nOn April 1, 2003, the 160th SOAR took part in the rescue mission of PFC Jessica Lynch who was taken prisoner during the Battle of Nasiriyah. On April 2, a Delta Force squadron operating in Iraq was ambushed by a half-dozen armed technicals from an anti-special forces Fedayeen. Two MH-60K Black Hawks carrying a parajumper medical team and two MH-60L DAPs of the 160th SOAR responded and engaged the Iraqis, which allowed the Delta operators to move their two casualties to an emergency HLZ. However, one Delta Force operator succumbed to his wounds.\n\nOn the evening of December 13, 2003, Saddam Hussein was captured by U.S. forces in Operation Red Dawn, he was exfiltrated by a MH-6 Little Bird from the 160th SOAR and he was taken into custody at Baghdad International Airport.\nIn 2004 they took part in the rescue of three Italian contractors and one Polish businessman held for ransom by Iraqi insurgents.\n\nIn Afghanistan in 2005: Eight Night Stalkers (four from HHC and four from Bravo company of 3rd Battalion) were killed along with eight Navy SEALs on a rescue mission for Marcus Luttrell, after their MH-47 Chinook helicopter was hit by an RPG (rocket propelled grenade). They were sent out to look for Luttrell after Operation Red Wings, in which he was involved with three other SEALs, was compromised and Luttrell's teammates killed.\n\nIn March 2006, SEALs from DEVGRU and Rangers were flown by the 160th SOAR into in North Waziristan, Pakistan, to assault an al-Qaeda training camp. In this Operation Vigilant Harvest, the assaulters killed as many as 30 terrorists including the camps commandant. \n\nOn 14 May 2006, helicopters from the 160th SOAR brought operators from Delta Force's B Squadron to Yusufiyah, Iraq, to fight al-Qaeda fighters in several buildings. As the operators disembarked their helicopters, they came under fire from a nearby house, and more al-Qaeda fighters soon joined the firefight. The door gunners of the 160th's Black Hawks fired at the insurgents; a pair of AH-6M Little Birds carried out strafing runs. One Little Bird from the 16oth's 1st Battalion, B Company, was shot down. An estimated 25 al-Qaeda fighters were killed. \n\nIn July 2006, a pair of MH-47Es from 160th SOAR attempted to insert a combined strike element of DEVGRU, Rangers, and Afghan commandos in Helmand Province, Afghanistan, to attack a compound. With some troops on the ground, a large insurgent force ambushed them. Both helicopters were struck by small arms fire. One MH-47E pilot put his aircraft in the line of fire to protect the other MH-47E as its assault team disembarked. An RPG hit the shielding MH-47E, whose pilot crash-landed with no serious injuries to operators or aircrew. The Ranger commander and an attached Australian Commando organized an all-round defence while the other MH-47E held back the advancing insurgents until its miniguns ran out of ammunition. An AC-130 Spectre joined the battle and kept the down crew and passengers safe until a British Immediate Response Team helicopter recovered them. The AC-130 then destroyed the MH-47E wreck, denying it to the Taliban.\n\nElements of 3rd Battalion 160th SOAR have conducted episodic deployments in support of Operation Enduring Freedom – Caribbean and Central America, begun in 2008. Night Stalker helicopters were present during the 2008 SOCOM counter-terror exercises in Denver. On 24 April 2008, Company D, 3rd Battalion, 160th SOAR was inactivated at a ceremony conducted at Hunter Army Airfield, Georgia, as part of a regimental transformation plan. The 160th SOAR also took part in the 2008 Abu Kamal raid.\n\nOn 19 August 2009, four Night Stalkers from D Company, 1st Battalion, 160th SOAR lost their lives in a MH-60 Black Hawk helicopter crash in Leadville, Colorado, during mountain and environmental training. On 9 September 2009 in Afghanistan, Nightstalkers inserted the British SBS and SFSG into Kunduz Province to rescue \"Times\" journalist Stephen Farrell after he and his Afghan interpreter were captured by the Taliban. On 19 September 2009 in Somalia, the Nightstalkers took part in Operation Celestial Balance, whose target was a senior terrorist leader connected to al-Qaeda affiliated organizations. The assault force (4 AH-6M Little Birds and 4 MH-60L Blackhawks) carried in DEVGRU operators to kill or capture the leader. AH-6Ms strafed the two-vehicle convoy, killing the leader along with three other al-Shabaab terrorists, then carried out an overwatch while DEVGRU cleared the vehicles and recovered the body. \n\nOn 22 October 2009, a 3rd Battalion helicopter crashed into the USNS \"Arctic\" during a joint training exercise involving fast roping about 20 miles off Fort Story, Virginia. The crash killed a soldier, Sergeant First Class James R. Stright, 29, and injured eight others, three seriously.\n\nIn May 2011, the Night Stalkers provided insertion and cover for the raid on Osama bin Laden's compound.\n\nOn 28 May 2012, Operation Jubilee took place: Blackhawks from the 160th SOAR flew in a teams from the British 22nd SAS Regiment and DEVGRU into Badakhshan Province, Afghanistan so they could rescue a British aid worker, a Kenyan NGO worker and 2 Afghans who were taken hostage by Bandits in the province. The rescue was a success.\n\nOn 15 January 2014, a MH-60M Black Hawk of the 160th performed a hard landing at Hunter Army Airfield in Georgia. One soldier, CPT Clayton Carpenter of NY (posthumously promoted to MAJ), was killed with another two injured. On 4 July 2014, during Operation Inherent Resolve, the Night Stalkers inserted Delta Force operators into Syria to rescue James Foley and other US hostages. One American was wounded, no hostages were found, but a substantial number of terrorists were killed. CENTCOM mistakenly posted a video on the internet of a flight of four MH-60Ms of the 160th SOAR conducting a mid-air refueling over Iraq in October 2014, the video has hastily taken down. On November 26, 2014, MH-60s flown by Nightstalkers took part in the first raid in the 2014 hostage rescue operations in Yemen.\n\nThe Night Stalkers continue to be deployed to Afghanistan as part of NATOs Resolute Support Mission after Operation Enduring Freedom-Afghanistan ended in late 2014 and was replaced with Operation Freedom's Sentinel. Throughout that night of 5 December 2015, a group of Rangers engaged in a firefight with enemy troops near the Afghan-Pakistan border; after about 5 a.m. their commander called for an extraction after they learned of a larger enemy group approaching. A helicopter from the 160th SOAR arrived and began receiving heavy fire from the enemy, an AH-64 Apache helicopter from the 1st Battalion 101st Aviation Regiment escorting the helicopter, put their Apache directly between the U.S. troops, the helicopter and the enemy forces to draw the fire. As a result, the extraction was a success.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" reported that 160th SOAR took part in the Yakla raid in Yemen on 29 January 2017, distinguishing itself when its helicopters flew repeatedly into heavy enemy fire to support U.S. Navy SEALs pinned down on the ground. On 25 August 2017, a Black Hawk helicopter flown by the 160th SOAR crashed off the coast of Yemen while conducting hoist training when it lost power and crashed into the sea, six servicemen survived, one US service member remained missing. \"CNN\" reported that on 27 October 2017, a US helicopter from 4th Battalion 160th SOAR crashed in Logar province, Afghanistan, killing one and injuring 6 more US servicemembers, the crash was not a result of enemy action.\n\nCommander: BG John R. Evans \nCommand Sergeant Major: CSM Gregory Chambers \nRegimental Warrant Officer: CW5 Ivan S. Murdock\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18993396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18993396", "title": "1989 South Asian Games", "text": "1989 South Asian Games\n\nThe 1989 South Asian Games(or 4th SAF Games) were held in Islamabad, Pakistan from 20 October to 27 October 1989.\n\nSquash was introduced for the first time in 1989 games. It replaced basketball from the previous games.\n\n"}
{"id": "45020637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45020637", "title": "2015 Karachi traffic accident", "text": "2015 Karachi traffic accident\n\nThe 2015 Karachi traffic accident occurred on 10 January 2015, when a passenger bus in transit from Karachi to Shikarpur crashed into an oil tanker killing up to 62 people including 6 children. The bus was carrying up to 80 people, with 62 inside the bus and 10 on top, due to overcrowding. Traveling in the morning, most of the passengers were asleep when the bus crashed. \n\nOnly traveling a small distance, the bus crashed in the outskirts of Karachi on a single track road that connects to the Super Highway. The crash occurred because of careless driving, as the driver of the tanker was speeding on the wrong side of the road, and poor conditions on the road. Immediately after the crash, a gas cylinder ignited causing the bus to catch on fire. The heat melted some of the metal frame on the bus, causing rescuers to cut open the vehicle to obtain some of the bodies. Up to 62 passengers were killed because of the crash. \n\nTransportation in Pakistan has been poor in recent years. According to the Pakistan Bureau of Statistics there are an average of 9,000 crashes and 4,500 deaths on the road each year.\n\nAfter the crash, the driver of the oil tanker fled the scene. According to Dr. Seemi Jamali, the 62 bodies were taken to Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre. Chief minister of Sindh, Qaim Ali Shah, ordered that there be an investigation into the crash.\n\n"}
{"id": "58516915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58516915", "title": "2018 Utah wildfires", "text": "2018 Utah wildfires\n\nThe 2018 wildfire season in Utah began around June, 2018.\n\nFires included:\n"}
{"id": "3165832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3165832", "title": "30th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "30th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 30th World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon) was L.A.con I, which was held in Los Angeles, California, US from 1 to 4 September 1972. The venue for 30th Worldcon was the International Hotel. The organising committee was co-chaired by Charles Crayne and Bruce Pelz.\n\nThe convention had 2,007 members, breaking the previous record of 1,600 set only one year earlier. The record was broken again a year later.\n\nThe guests of honor were:\n\nThe 33rd World Science Fiction Convention was awarded to Aussiecon I in Melbourne, Australia. This was the first time a Worldcon was awarded to a site outside North America or Europe.\n\n\n\nAt the L.A.Con I masquerade, one of the contestants, artist Scott Shaw!, came on stage wearing only a bathing suit, with his body completely covered with crunchy peanut butter. The name of his costume was \"The Turd.\" from an underground comic story Shaw wrote and illustrated. Since some of the peanut butter tended to drip off of him, making the floor sticky for other contestants, a rule was passed that forever after at science fiction convention masquerades, no peanut butter costumes would be allowed. This masquerade rule is universally known among science fiction fans as the \"no peanut butter rule.\" \n\nThe first video game competition at a science fiction convention was held, and a science fiction fan named Kevan Pritchard from Lawndale, California, won the world championship contest in the game \"Spacewar!\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10176458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10176458", "title": "Alice Cooper and Friends", "text": "Alice Cooper and Friends\n\nAlice Cooper and Friends was a live music television special starring Alice Cooper. Broadcast in the United States in September 1977, it was released on VHS in 1978. This rare video has a running time of 52 minutes, of which 25 minutes feature Cooper. It also features live footage of The Tubes, Nazareth and Sha Na Na.\n\n\"Alice Cooper and Friends\" was filmed in concert on 19 June 1977 at the Anaheim Stadium in California. This was the first night of Cooper's \"King of the Silver Screen\" tour, in support of his album \"Lace and Whiskey\". The special captured a very drunken and lethargic performance by Cooper, which he himself has dismissed as his worst performance. The video does include the infamous \"Chickens with Machine Guns\" sequence during the song \"Lace and Whiskey\". This special was the only commercially released video footage from that tour.\n\nThe video of the special has been discontinued since its original release, and has not been issued on DVD. Used copies regularly appear for sale online.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279", "title": "April 3", "text": "April 3\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13603381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13603381", "title": "Associazione Agraria Subalpina", "text": "Associazione Agraria Subalpina\n\nThe Associazione Agraria Subalpina (Subalpine Agrarian Association), was founded on 31 May 1842, under the sponsorship of Carlo Alberto, king of Piedmont-Sardinia, by a group of 36 intellectuals, landowners and politicians belonging to the Piedmontese nobility and bourgeoisie. They included Camillo Benso di Cavour, Carlo Ilarione Petitti di Roreto, Cesare Alfieri di Sostegno (its first president) and Giovenale Vegezzi Ruscalla (its first secretary). Its primary aim was the promotion of efficient agricultural practices in Piedmont, but in the absence of effective political organisation in the kingdom—where there was no parliament, no political parties, no elections and no free press prior to the Statuto Albertino of 1848—it also provided a focus for passionate political debate.\n"}
{"id": "21934023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21934023", "title": "Biederman's Cabin", "text": "Biederman's Cabin\n\nBiederman's Cabin, also called Biederman's Fish Camp, is a privately owned cabin on the Yukon River in Alaska. Located within the Yukon-Charley Rivers National Preserve, it is maintained as a historic site representing the subsistence lifestyle employed by Interior Alaska residents during the early years of the 20th century and is one of the few structures within the preserve.\n\nThe cabin was built in 1916 by Max Adolphus \"Ed\" Biederman for his family. Biederman was an immigrant to the United States from Bohemia, and was attracted to Alaska in 1899 by the Nome Gold Rush. After failing to strike it rich, Biederman became a sled dog driver instead. In 1912, he began running the Eagle to Circle mail route along the Yukon River. In 1916, he constructed the -long log cabin and roofed it with sod. That year, his first daughter, Nellie Biederman, was born in the building.\n\nBetween 1916 and 1938, the Biederman family used the cabin as their summer residence after spending winters in Eagle while Ed ran his dog team and used the cabin as a waypoint between the two locations. Because other winter travelers needed a place to stay during the winter, Biederman constructed a small bunk house away from the cabin. To provide food for the many dogs Biederman owned as a result of the mail route, the family used the cabin as a fish camp and installed two fish wheels to catch salmon swimming upstream during the spawning season. Other additions were made to the cabin, including a tin roof to replace the sod and an Arctic entry. In 1938, the dog sled mail route was discontinued, and in 1945, Ed Biederman died.\n\nAfter Biederman's death, the cabin fell into relative disuse by the family, though winter travelers continued to seek shelter in it. In 1984, the Yukon Quest, a 1,000-mile sled dog race between Fairbanks, Alaska, and Whitehorse, Yukon, chose the cabin as an official rest area along the trail. Though the cabin's official status has been superseded by nearby Slaven's Cabin, which is run by the National Park Service, it continues to serve as an informal hospitality stop for competitors in the race.\n\nA nearby wildfire threatened the cabin in 2007, and the National Park Service installed temporary sprinklers at the site as a preventative measure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23278520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23278520", "title": "Boris Yeltsin", "text": "Boris Yeltsin\n\nBoris Nikolayevich Yeltsin (; 1 February 1931 – 23 April 2007) was a Soviet and Russian politician and the first President of the Russian Federation, serving from 1991 to 1999. Originally a supporter of Mikhail Gorbachev, Yeltsin emerged under the perestroika reforms as one of Gorbachev's most powerful political opponents. During the late 1980s, Yeltsin had been a candidate member of the Politburo, and in late 1987 tendered a letter of resignation in protest. No one had resigned from the Politburo before. This act branded Yeltsin as a rebel and led to his rise in popularity as an anti-establishment figure.\n\nOn 29 May 1990, he was elected the chairman of the Russian Supreme Soviet. On 12 June 1991 he was elected by popular vote to the newly created post of President of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR). Upon the resignation of Mikhail Gorbachev and the dissolution of the Soviet Union on 25 December 1991, the RSFSR became the sovereign state of the Russian Federation, and Yeltsin remained in office as president. He was reelected in the 1996 election, in which critics widely claimed pervasive corruption; in the second round he defeated Gennady Zyuganov from the revived Communist Party by a margin of 13.7%. However, Yeltsin never recovered his early popularity after a series of economic and political crises in Russia in the 1990s.\n\nYeltsin transformed Russia's socialist economy into a capitalist market economy, implementing economic shock therapy, market exchange rate of the ruble, nationwide privatization and lifting of price controls. Yeltsin proposed a new Russian constitution which was popularly approved at the 1993 constitutional referendum. However, due to the sudden total economic shift, a majority of the national property and wealth fell into the hands of a small number of oligarchs. Rather than creating new enterprises, Yeltsin's policies led to international monopolies hijacking the former Soviet markets, arbitraging the huge difference between old domestic prices for Russian commodities and the prices prevailing on the world market. In the foreign policy Yeltsin offered cooperative and conciliatory relations, particularly with the Group of Seven, CIS and OSCE, as well as adherence to arms control agreements, such as START II.\n\nMuch of the Yeltsin era was marked by widespread corruption, and as a result of persistent low oil and commodity prices during the 1990s, Russia suffered inflation and economic collapse. Within a few years of his presidency, many of Yeltsin's initial supporters had started to criticize his leadership, and Vice President Alexander Rutskoy even denounced the reforms as \"economic genocide\". Ongoing confrontations with the Supreme Soviet climaxed in the 1993 Russian constitutional crisis in which Yeltsin ordered the unconstitutional dissolution of the Supreme Soviet parliament, which as a result attempted to remove him from office. In October 1993, troops loyal to Yeltsin stopped an armed uprising outside of the parliament building, leading to a number of deaths. On 31 December 1999, under enormous internal pressure, Yeltsin announced his resignation, leaving the presidency in the hands of his chosen successor, then-Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. Yeltsin left office widely unpopular with the Russian population.\n\nYeltsin kept a low profile after his resignation, though he did occasionally publicly criticise his successor. Yeltsin died of congestive heart failure on 23 April 2007.\n\nBoris Yeltsin was born in the village of Butka, Talitsky District, Sverdlovsk, USSR, on 1 February 1931. In 1932, after the state took away the entire harvest from the recently collectivised Butka peasants, the Yeltsin family moved as far away as they could, to Kazan, more than 1,100 kilometres from Butka, where Boris' father, Nikolai, found work on a building site. Growing up in rural Sverdlovsk, he studied at the Ural State Technical University (now Urals Polytechnic Institute), and began his career in the construction industry. In 1934, Nikolai Yeltsin was convicted of anti-Soviet agitation and sentenced to hard labour in a gulag for three years.\n\nFollowing his release in 1936 after serving two years, Nikolai took his family to live in Berezniki in Perm Krai, where his brother Ivan, a blacksmith, had been exiled the previous year for failing to deliver his grain quota. Nikolai remained unemployed for a period of time and then worked again in construction. His mother, Klavdiya Vasilyevna Yeltsina, worked as a seamstress. Boris studied at Pushkin High School in Berezniki. He was fond of sports (in particular skiing, gymnastics, volleyball, track & field, boxing and wrestling) despite losing the thumb and index finger of his left hand when he and some friends furtively entered a Red Army supply depot, stole several grenades, and tried to disassemble them.\n\nIn 1949, he was admitted to the Ural Polytechnic Institute in Sverdlovsk, majoring in construction, and he graduated in 1955. The subject of his degree paper was \"Construction of a Mine Shaft\". From 1955-57 he worked as a foreman with the building trust Uraltyazhtrubstroy. From 1957-63, he worked in Sverdlovsk, and was promoted from construction site superintendent to chief of the Construction Directorate with the Yuzhgorstroy Trust. In 1963, he became chief engineer, and in 1965, head of the Sverdlovsk House-Building Combine, responsible for sewerage and technical plumbing. He joined the ranks of the CPSU \"nomenklatura\" in 1968 when he was appointed head of construction with the Sverdlovsk Regional Party Committee. In 1975, he became secretary of the regional committee in charge of the region's industrial development. In 1976, the Politburo of the CPSU promoted him to the post of the First Secretary of the CPSU Committee of Sverdlovsk Oblast (effectively he became the head of one of the most important industrial regions in the USSR); he remained in this position until 1985. \n\nYeltsin was a member of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) from 17 March 1961 to 13 July 1990, and a \"nomenklatura\" member from 1968.\n\nIn 1977, as a party official in Sverdlovsk, Yeltsin was ordered by Moscow to destroy the Ipatiev House where the last Russian tsar and his family had been killed by Bolshevik troops. The Ipatiev House was demolished in one night on 27 July 1977. Also during Yeltsin's time in Sverdlovsk, a CPSU palace was built which was named \"White Tooth\" by the residents. During this time, Yeltsin developed connections with key people in the Soviet power structure. In January 1981 Yeltsin was awarded the Order of Lenin, the Soviet Union's highest medal, for \"the service to the Communist Party and the Soviet State and in connection with the 50th birthday\". In March 1981 Yeltsin was elected as a full member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.\n\nOn 11 March 1985, Mikhail Gorbachev was elected General Secretary of the CPSU by the Politburo after the death of Konstantin Chernenko. Gorbachev's primary goal was to revive the Soviet economy; however, he came to believe that fixing the Soviet economy would be nearly impossible without reforming the political and social structure of the USSR. To begin implementation of these reforms, he immediately began gathering a younger and more energetic governing team of Communist Party members in Moscow. On 4 April 1985, Yeltsin received a call from Gorbachev's leading protege Yegor Ligachev summoning him to Moscow to take up position as Head of the Construction Department of the Party's Central Committee. Less than three months later, he was promoted to be Secretary for Construction of the Central Committee, a position within the powerful CPSU Central Committee Secretariat.\n\nOn 23 December 1985, Mikhail Gorbachev appointed Yeltsin as First Secretary of the CPSU Moscow City Committee, effectively \"Mayor\" of the Soviet capital, and as a result, on 18 February 1986, Yeltsin was invited to become a Candidate (non-voting) Member of the Politburo. As a politburo member, Yeltsin was also given a country house (dacha) which was previously occupied by Gorbachev, who now moved to a much bigger and more luxurious purpose-built dacha nearby. During this period, Yeltsin portrayed himself as a reformer and a populist (for example, he took a trolleybus to work), firing and reshuffling his staff several times. He became popular among Moscow residents for firing corrupt Moscow party officials.\n\nOn 10 September 1987, after a lecture from hard-liner Yegor Ligachev at the Politburo for allowing two small unsanctioned demonstrations on Moscow streets, Yeltsin wrote a letter of resignation to Gorbachev who was holidaying on the Black Sea. When Gorbachev received the letter he was stunned – nobody in Soviet history had voluntarily resigned from the ranks of the Politburo. Gorbachev phoned Yeltsin and asked him to reconsider.\n\nOn 27 October 1987 at the plenary meeting of the Central Committee of the CPSU, Yeltsin, frustrated that Gorbachev had not addressed any of the issues outlined in his resignation letter asked to speak. He expressed his discontent with both the slow pace of reform in society, the servility shown to the general secretary, and opposition to him from Ligachev making his position untenable, before requesting to resign from the Politburo, adding that the City Committee would decide whether he should resign from the post of First Secretary of the Moscow Communist Party. Aside from the fact that no one had ever before quit the Politburo, no one in the party had ever addressed a leader of the party in such a manner in front of the Central Committee since Leon Trotsky in the 1920s. In his reply, Gorbachev accused Yeltsin of \"political immaturity\" and \"absolute irresponsibility\". Nobody in the Central Committee backed Yeltsin.\n\nWithin days, news of Yeltsin's actions leaked and rumours of his \"secret speech\" at the Central Committee spread throughout Moscow. Soon fabricated \"samizdat\" versions began to circulate – this was the beginning of Yeltsin's rise as a rebel and growth in popularity as an anti-establishment figure. Gorbachev called a meeting of the Moscow City Party Committee for 11 November 1987 to launch another crushing attack on Yeltsin and confirm his dismissal. On 9 November 1987, Yeltsin apparently tried to kill himself and was rushed to hospital bleeding profusely from self-inflicted cuts to his chest. Gorbachev ordered the injured Yeltsin from his hospital bed to the Moscow party plenum two days later where he was ritually denounced by the party faithful in what was reminiscent of a Stalinist show trial before he was fired from the post of First Secretary of the Moscow Communist Party. Yeltsin said he would never forgive Gorbachev for this \"immoral and inhuman\" treatment.\n\nYeltsin was demoted to the position of First Deputy Commissioner for the State Committee for Construction. At the next meeting of the Central Committee on 24 February 1988, Yeltsin was removed from his position as a Candidate member of the Politburo. He was perturbed and humiliated but began plotting his revenge. His opportunity came with Gorbachev's establishment of the Congress of People's Deputies. He recovered, and started intensively criticizing Gorbachev, highlighting the slow pace of reform in the Soviet Union as his major argument.\n\nYeltsin's criticism of the Politburo and Gorbachev led to a smear campaign against him, in which examples of Yeltsin's awkward behavior were used against him. Speaking at the CPSU conference in 1988, Yegor Ligachev stated: \"Boris, you are wrong\". An article in \"Pravda\" described Yeltsin as drunk at a lecture during his September 1989 visit to the United States, an allegation which appeared to be confirmed by a TV account of his speech. However, popular dissatisfaction with the regime was very strong, and these attempts to smear Yeltsin only added to his popularity. In another incident, Yeltsin fell from a bridge. Commenting on this event, Yeltsin hinted that he was helped to fall from the bridge by the enemies of perestroika, but his opponents suggested that he was simply drunk.\n\nOn 26 March 1989, Yeltsin was elected to the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union as the delegate from Moscow district with a decisive 92% of the vote and on 29 May 1989, was elected by the Congress of People's Deputies to a seat on the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union. On 19 July 1989, Yeltsin announced the formation of the radical pro-reform faction in the Congress of People's Deputies: the Inter-Regional Group of Deputies, and on 29 July 1989 was elected one of the five co-Chairman of the Inter-Regional Group.\n\nOn 16 September 1989, Yeltsin toured a medium-sized grocery store (Randall's) in Texas. Leon Aron, quoting a Yeltsin associate, wrote in his 2000 biography, \"Yeltsin, A Revolutionary Life\" (St. Martin's Press): \"For a long time, on the plane to Miami, he sat motionless, his head in his hands. 'What have they done to our poor people?' he said after a long silence.\" He added, \"On his return to Moscow, Yeltsin would confess the pain he had felt after the Houston excursion: the ‘pain for all of us, for our country so rich, so talented and so exhausted by incessant experiments.’”\n\nHe wrote that Mr. Yeltsin added, “I think we have committed a crime against our people by making their standard of living so incomparably lower than that of the Americans.” An aide, Lev Sukhanov was reported to have said that it was at that moment that “the last vestige of Bolshevism collapsed” inside his boss.\n\nOn his autobiography titled \"Against The Grain: An Autobiography\" written and published in 1990, however, Yeltsin hinted in a small passage that after his tour, he made plans on opening his own line of grocery stores and planned to fill it with government subsidized goods in order to alleviate the countries problems.\n\nOn 4 March 1990, Yeltsin was elected to the Congress of People's Deputies of Russia representing Sverdlovsk with 72% of the vote. On 29 May 1990, he was elected chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR), in spite of the fact that Gorbachev personally pleaded with the Russian deputies not to select Yeltsin. He was supported by both democratic and conservative members of the Supreme Soviet, which sought power in the developing political situation in the country.\n\nA part of this power struggle was the opposition between power structures of the Soviet Union and the RSFSR. In an attempt to gain more power, on 12 June 1990, the Congress of People's Deputies of the RSFSR adopted a declaration of sovereignty. On 12 July 1990, Yeltsin resigned from the CPSU in a dramatic speech before party members at the 28th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, some of whom responded by shouting \"Shame!\"\n\nOn 12 June 1991, Yeltsin won 57% of the popular vote in the democratic presidential elections for the Russian republic, defeating Gorbachev's preferred candidate, Nikolai Ryzhkov, who got just 16% of the vote, and four other candidates. In his election campaign, Yeltsin criticized the \"dictatorship of the center\", but did not suggest the introduction of a market economy. Instead, he said that he would put his head on the railtrack in the event of increased prices. Yeltsin took office on 10 July, and reappointed Ivan Silayev as Chairman of the Council of Ministers – Government of the Russian SFSR.\nOn 18 August 1991, a coup against Gorbachev was launched by the government members opposed to perestroika. Gorbachev was held in Crimea while Yeltsin raced to the White House of Russia (residence of the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR) in Moscow to defy the coup, making a memorable speech from atop the turret of a tank onto which he had climbed. The White House was surrounded by the military but the troops defected in the face of mass popular demonstrations. By 21 August most of the coup leaders had fled Moscow and Gorbachev was \"rescued\" from Crimea and then returned to Moscow. Yeltsin was subsequently hailed by his supporters around the world for rallying mass opposition to the coup.\n\nAlthough restored to his position, Gorbachev had been destroyed politically. Neither union nor Russian power structures heeded his commands as support had swung over to Yeltsin. Taking advantage of the situation, Yeltsin began taking what remained of the Soviet government, ministry by ministry—including the Kremlin. On 6 November 1991, Yeltsin issued a decree banning all Communist Party activities on Russian soil. In early December 1991, Ukraine voted for independence from the Soviet Union. A week later, on 8 December, Yeltsin met Ukrainian president Leonid Kravchuk and the leader of Belarus, Stanislav Shushkevich, in Belovezhskaya Pushcha. In the Belavezha Accords, the three presidents announced the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the formation of a voluntary Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) in its place.\nAccording to Gorbachev, Yeltsin kept the plans of the Belovezhskaya meeting in strict secrecy and the main goal of the dissolution of the Soviet Union was to get rid of Gorbachev, who by that time had started to recover his position after the events of August. Gorbachev has also accused Yeltsin of violating the people's will expressed in the referendum in which the majority voted to keep the Soviet Union united. On 12 December, the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR ratified the Belavezha Accords and denounced the 1922 Union Treaty. It also ordered the Russian deputies in the Council of the Union to cease their work, leaving that body without a quorum. In effect, the largest republic of the Soviet Union had seceded.\n\nOn 17 December, in a meeting with Yeltsin, Gorbachev accepted the \"fait accompli\" and agreed to dissolve the Soviet Union. On 24 December, the Russian Federation, by mutual agreement of the other CIS states (which by this time included all of the remaining republics except Georgia) took the Soviet Union's seat in the United Nations. The next day, Gorbachev resigned and the Soviet Union ceased to exist—thereby ending the world's oldest, largest and most powerful Communist state. Economic relations between the former Soviet republics were severely compromised. Millions of ethnic Russians found themselves in the newly formed foreign countries.\n\nJust days after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Boris Yeltsin resolved to embark on a programme of radical economic reform. Unlike Gorbachev's reforms, which sought to expand democracy in the socialist system, the new regime aimed to completely dismantle socialism and fully implement capitalism; converting the world's largest command economy into a free-market one. During early discussions of this transition, Yeltsin's advisers debated issues of speed and sequencing, with an apparent division between those favouring a rapid approach and those favoring a gradual or slower approach.\nOn 2 January 1992, Yeltsin, acting as his own Prime Minister, ordered the liberalisation of foreign trade, prices, and currency. At the same time, Yeltsin followed a policy of \"macroeconomic stabilisation\", a harsh austerity regime designed to control inflation. Under Yeltsin's stabilisation programme, interest rates were raised to extremely high levels to tighten money and restrict credit. To bring state spending and revenues into balance, Yeltsin raised new taxes heavily, cut back sharply on government subsidies to industry and construction, and made steep cuts to state welfare spending.\n\nIn early 1992, prices skyrocketed throughout Russia, and a deep credit crunch shut down many industries and brought about a protracted depression. The reforms devastated the living standards of much of the population, especially the groups dependent on Soviet-era state subsidies and welfare entitlement programmes. Through the 1990s, Russia's GDP fell by 50%, vast sectors of the economy were wiped out, inequality and unemployment grew dramatically, whilst incomes fell. Hyperinflation, caused by the Central Bank of Russia's loose monetary policy, wiped out many people's personal savings, and tens of millions of Russians were plunged into poverty.\nSome economists argue that in the 1990s, Russia suffered an economic downturn more severe than the United States or Germany had undergone six decades earlier in the Great Depression. Russian commentators and even some Western economists, such as Marshall Goldman, widely blamed Yeltsin's economic programme for the country's disastrous economic performance in the 1990s. Many politicians began to quickly distance themselves from the programme. In February 1992, Russia's vice president, Alexander Rutskoy denounced the Yeltsin programme as \"economic genocide.\" By 1993, conflict over the reform direction escalated between Yeltsin on the one side, and the opposition to radical economic reform in Russia's parliament on the other.\n\nAlso throughout 1992, Yeltsin wrestled with the Supreme Soviet of Russia and the Congress of People's Deputies for control over government, government policy, government banking and property. In the course of 1992, the speaker of the Russian Supreme Soviet, Ruslan Khasbulatov, came out in opposition to the reforms, despite claiming to support Yeltsin's overall goals. In December 1992, the 7th Congress of People's Deputies succeeded in turning down the Yeltsin-backed candidacy of Yegor Gaidar for the position of Russian Prime Minister. An agreement was brokered by Valery Zorkin, chairman of the Constitutional Court, which included the following provisions: a national referendum on the new constitution; parliament and Yeltsin would choose a new head of government, to be confirmed by the Supreme Soviet; and the parliament was to cease making constitutional amendments that change the balance of power between the legislative and executive branches. Eventually, on 14 December, Viktor Chernomyrdin, widely seen as a compromise figure, was confirmed in the office.\n\nThe conflict escalated soon, however, with the parliament changing its prior decision to hold a referendum. Yeltsin, in turn, announced in a televised address to the nation on 20 March 1993, that he was going to assume certain \"special powers\" in order to implement his programme of reforms. In response, the hastily called 9th Congress of People's Deputies attempted to remove Yeltsin from presidency through impeachment on 26 March 1993. Yeltsin's opponents gathered more than 600 votes for impeachment, but fell 72 votes short of the required two-thirds majority.\nDuring the summer of 1993, a situation of dual power developed in Russia. Since July, two separate administrations of the Chelyabinsk Oblast functioned side by side, after Yeltsin refused to accept the newly elected pro-parliament head of the region. The Supreme Soviet pursued its own foreign policies, passing a declaration on the status of Sevastopol. In August, a commentator reflected on the situation as follows: \"The President issues decrees as if there were no Supreme Soviet, and the Supreme Soviet suspends decrees as if there were no President.\" (Izvestiya, 13 August 1993).\n\nOn 21 September 1993, Yeltsin, in breach of the constitution; announced in a televised address his decision to disband the Supreme Soviet and Congress of People's Deputies by decree. In his address, Yeltsin declared his intent to rule by decree until the election of the new parliament and a referendum on a new constitution, triggering the constitutional crisis of October 1993. On the night after Yeltsin's televised address, the Supreme Soviet declared Yeltsin removed from presidency, by virtue of him having breached the constitution, and Vice-President Alexander Rutskoy was sworn in as acting president.\n\nBetween 21 and 24 September, Yeltsin was confronted by popular unrest. The demonstrators were protesting the new and terrible living conditions under Yeltsin. Since 1989, GDP had declined by half. Corruption was rampant, violent crime was skyrocketing, medical services were collapsing, food and fuel were increasingly scarce and life expectancy was falling for all but a tiny handful of the population; moreover, Yeltsin was increasingly getting the blame. By early-October, Yeltsin had secured the support of Russia's army and ministry of interior forces. In a massive show of force, Yeltsin called up tanks to shell the Russian White House, Russian parliament building.\n\nAs the Supreme Soviet was dissolved, elections to the newly established parliament, the State Duma, were held in December 1993. Candidates associated with Yeltsin's economic policies were overwhelmed by a huge anti-Yeltsin vote, the bulk of which was divided between the Communist Party and ultra-nationalists. The referendum, however, held at the same time, approved the new constitution, which significantly expanded the powers of the president, giving Yeltsin a right to appoint the members of the government, to dismiss the Prime Minister and, in some cases, to dissolve the Duma.\n\nIn December 1994, Yeltsin ordered the military invasion of Chechnya in an attempt to restore Moscow's control over the republic. Nearly two years later, Yeltsin withdrew federal forces from the devastated Chechnya under a 1996 peace agreement brokered by Alexander Lebed; Yeltsin's then-security chief. The peace deal allowed Chechnya greater autonomy but not full independence. The decision to launch the war in Chechnya dismayed many in the West. \"TIME\" magazine wrote:\n\nThen, what was to be made of Boris Yeltsin? Clearly he could no longer be regarded as the democratic hero of Western myth. But had he become an old-style communist boss, turning his back on the democratic reformers he once championed and throwing in his lot with militarists and ultranationalists? Or was he a befuddled, out-of-touch chief being manipulated, knowingly or unwittingly, by—well, by whom exactly? If there was to be a dictatorial coup, would Yeltsin be its victim or its leader?\"\nFollowing the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Yeltsin promoted privatisation as a way of spreading ownership of shares in former state enterprises as widely as possible to create political support for his economic reforms. In the West, privatisation was viewed as the key to the transition from Communism in Eastern Europe, ensuring a quick dismantling of the Soviet-era command economy to make way for \"free market reforms\". In the early-1990s, Anatoly Chubais, Yeltsin's deputy for economic policy, emerged as a leading advocate of privatisation in Russia.\n\nIn late 1992, Yeltsin launched a programme of free vouchers as a way to give mass privatisation a jump-start. Under the programme, all Russian citizens were issued vouchers, each with a nominal value of around 10,000 roubles, for the purchase of shares of select state enterprises. Although each citizen initially received a voucher of equal face value, within months the majority of them converged in the hands of intermediaries who were ready to buy them for cash right away.\n\nIn 1995, as Yeltsin struggled to finance Russia's growing foreign debt and gain support from the Russian business elite for his bid in the 1996 presidential elections, the Russian president prepared for a new wave of privatisation offering stock shares in some of Russia's most valuable state enterprises in exchange for bank loans. The programme was promoted as a way of simultaneously speeding up privatisation and ensuring the government a cash infusion to cover its operating needs.'\n\nHowever, the deals were effectively giveaways of valuable state assets to a small group of tycoons in finance, industry, energy, telecommunications, and the media who came to be known as \"oligarchs\" in the mid-1990s. This was due to the fact that ordinary people sold their vouchers for cash. The vouchers were bought out by a small group of investors. By mid-1996, substantial ownership shares over major firms were acquired at very low prices by a handful of people. Boris Berezovsky, who controlled major stakes in several banks and the national media, emerged as one of Yeltsin's most prominent supporters. Along with Berezovsky, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, Vladimir Potanin, Vladimir Bogdanov, Rem Viakhirev, Vagit Alekperov, Alexander Smolensky, Victor Vekselberg, Mikhail Fridman and a few years later Roman Abramovich, were habitually mentioned in the media as Russia's oligarchs.\n\nOn 5 December 1991, Senator Jesse Helms, ranking member of the Minority on the U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, wrote to Yeltsin concerning U.S. servicemen who were POWs or MIAs. \"The status of thousands and thousands of American servicemen who are held by Soviet and other Communist forces, and who were never repatriated after every major war this century, is of grave concern to the American people.\"\n\nYeltsin would ultimately respond with a statement made on 15 June 1992, whilst being interviewed onboard his presidential jet en route to the United States, \"Our archives have shown that it is true — some of them were transferred to the territory of the USSR and were kept in labour camps... We can only surmise that some of them may still be alive.\" On 10 December 1991, just five days after Senator Helms had written to Yeltsin regarding American servicemen, he again wrote to Yeltsin, this time concerning Korean Air Lines Flight 007 (KAL 007) requesting information concerning possible survivors, including Georgia Congressman Larry McDonald, and their whereabouts.\n\nOne of the greatest tragedies of the Cold War was the shoot-down of the Korean Airlines Flight 007 by the Armed Forces of what was then the Soviet Union on 1 September 1983... The KAL-007 tragedy was one of the most tense incidences of the entire Cold War. However, now that relations between our two nations have improved substantially, I believe that it is time to resolve the mysteries surrounding this event. Clearing the air on this issue could help further to improve relations.\n\nIn March 1992, Yeltsin would hand over KAL 007's black box without its tapes to South Korean President Roh Tae-Woo at the end of the plenary session of the Korean National Assembly with this statement, \"We apologise for the tragedy and are trying to settle some unsolved issues.\" Yeltsin released the tapes of the KAL 007's \"Black Box\" (its Digital Flight Data Recorder and Cockpit Voice Recorder) to the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) on 8 January 1993. For years the Soviet authorities had denied possessing these tapes. The openness of Yeltsin about POW/MIA and KAL 007 matters may also have signalled his willingness for more openness to the West. In 1992, which he labelled the \"window of opportunity\", he was willing to discuss biological weapons with the United States and admitted that the Sverdlovsk anthrax leak of 2 April 1979 (which Yeltsin had originally been involved in concealing) had been caused as the result of a mishap at a military facility. The Russian government had maintained that the cause was contaminated meat. The true number of victims in the anthrax outbreak at Sverdlovsk, about east of Moscow, is unknown.\n\nIn February 1996, Yeltsin announced that he would seek a second term at the 1996 Russian presidential election in the summer. The announcement followed weeks of speculation that Yeltsin was at the end of his political career because of his health problems and growing unpopularity in Russia. At the time, Yeltsin was recuperating from a series of heart attacks. Domestic and international observers also noted his occasionally erratic behaviour. When campaigning began in early 1996, Yeltsin's popularity was close to being non-existent. Meanwhile, the opposition Communist Party had already gained ground in parliamentary voting on 17 December 1995, and its candidate, Gennady Zyuganov, had a strong grassroots organisation, especially in the rural areas and small towns, and appealed effectively to memories of the old days of Soviet prestige on the international stage and the domestic order under state socialism.\n\nPanic struck the Yeltsin team when opinion polls suggested that the ailing president could not win; some members of his entourage urged him to cancel the presidential elections and effectively rule as a dictator from then on. Instead, Yeltsin changed his campaign team, assigning a key role to his daughter, Tatyana Dyachenko, and appointing Chubais as campaign manager. Chubais, acting as both Yeltsin's campaign manager and adviser on Russia's privatisation programme, used his control of the privatisation programme as an instrument of Yeltsin's re-election campaign.\n\nIn mid-1996, Chubais and Yeltsin recruited a team of a handful of financial and media oligarchs to bankroll the Yeltsin campaign and guaranteed favourable media coverage to the president on national television and in leading newspapers. In return, Chubais allowed well-connected Russian business leaders to acquire majority stakes in some of Russia's most valuable state-owned assets. Led by the efforts of Mikhail Lesin, the media painted a picture of a fateful choice for Russia, between Yeltsin and a \"return to totalitarianism.\" The oligarchs even played up the threat of civil war if a Communist was elected president.\n\nYeltsin campaigned energetically, dispelling concerns about his health, and maintained a high media profile. To boost his popularity, Yeltsin promised to abandon some of his more unpopular economic reforms, boost welfare spending, end the war in Chechnya, and pay wage and pension arrears. Yeltsin had benefited from the approval of a US$10.2 billion International Monetary Fund loan to Russia which helped to keep his government afloat. It was argued that Yeltsin also won thanks to the extensive assistance provided by the team of media and PR experts from the United States. The \"Guardian\" reported that Joe Shumate, George Gorton, Richard Dresner, a close associate of Dick Morris, \"and Steven Moore (who came on later as a PR specialist) gave an exclusive interview to \"Time\" magazine in 1996 about their adventures working as political consultants in Russia. They also detailed the extent of their collaboration with the Clinton White House.\"\nZyuganov, who lacked Yeltsin's resources and financial backing, saw his strong initial lead whittled away. After the first round on 16 June, Yeltsin appointed a highly popular candidate Alexander Lebed, who finished in third place in the first round, Secretary of the Security Council of Russia, sacked at the latter's behest defence minister Pavel Grachev and on 20 June sacked a number of his \"siloviki\", one of them being his chief of presidential security Alexander Korzhakov, viewed by many as Yeltsin's éminence grise. In the run-off on 3 July, with a turnout of 68.9%, Yeltsin won 53.8% of the vote and Zyuganov 40.3%, with the rest (5.9%) voting \"against all\".\n\nYeltsin underwent emergency quintuple heart bypass surgery in November 1996, and remained in the hospital for months. During his presidency, Russia received US$40,000,000,000 in funds from the International Monetary Fund and other international lending organisations. However, his opponents allege that most of these funds were stolen by people from Yeltsin's circle and placed into foreign banks.\n\nIn 1998, a political and economic crisis emerged when Yeltsin's government defaulted on its debts, causing financial markets to panic and the rouble to collapse in the 1998 Russian financial crisis. During the 1999 Kosovo war, Yeltsin strongly opposed the NATO military campaign against Yugoslavia, and warned of possible Russian intervention if NATO deployed ground troops to Kosovo. In televised comments he stated: \"I told NATO, the Americans, the Germans: Don't push us towards military action. Otherwise there will be a European war for sure and possibly a world war.\"\n\nOn 9 August 1999, Yeltsin fired his Prime Minister, Sergei Stepashin, and for the fourth time, fired his entire Cabinet. In Stepashin's place, he appointed Vladimir Putin, relatively unknown at that time, and announced his wish to see Putin as his successor. In late 1999, Yeltsin and U.S. President Bill Clinton openly disagreed on the war in Chechnya. At the November meeting of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, Clinton pointed his finger at Yeltsin and demanded he halt bombing attacks that had resulted in many civilian casualties. Yeltsin immediately left the conference.\n\nIn December, whilst visiting China to seek support on Chechnya, Yeltsin replied to Clinton's criticism of a Russian ultimatum to citizens of Grozny. He bluntly pronounced: \"Yesterday, Clinton permitted himself to put pressure on Russia. It seems he has for a minute, for a second, for half a minute, forgotten that Russia has a full arsenal of nuclear weapons. He has forgotten about that.\" Clinton dismissed Yeltsin's comments stating: \"I didn't think he'd forgotten that America was a great power when he disagreed with what I did in Kosovo.\" It fell to Putin to downplay Yeltsin's comments and present reassurances about U.S. and Russian relations.\n\nOn 15 May 1999, Yeltsin survived another attempt of impeachment, this time by the democratic and communist opposition in the State Duma. He was charged with several unconstitutional activities, including the signing of the Belavezha Accords dissolving the Soviet Union in December 1991, the coup-d'état in October 1993, and initiating the war in Chechnya in 1994. None of these charges received the two-thirds majority of the Duma which was required to initiate the process of impeachment of the president.\n\nWith Pavel Borodin as the Kremlin property manager, Swiss construction firm Mabetex was awarded many important Russian government contracts. They were awarded the contracts to reconstruct, renovate and refurbish the former Russian Federation Parliament, the Russian Opera House, State Duma and the Moscow Kremlin.\n\nIn 1998, Prosecutor General of Russia Yuri Skuratov opened a bribery investigation against Mabetex, accusing Mabetex CEO Mr. Pacolli of bribing President Boris Yeltsin and his family members. Swiss authorities issued an international arrest warrant for Pavel Borodin, the official who managed the Kremlin's property empire. Admitting publicly that bribery was usual business practice in Russia, Mr. Pacolli confirmed in early-December 1999 that he had guaranteed five credit cards for Mr. Yeltsin's wife, Naina, and two daughters, Tatyana and Yelena. President Yeltsin resigned a few weeks later on 31 December 1999, appointing Vladimir Putin as his successor. President Putin's first decree as president was lifelong immunity from prosecution for Mr. Yeltsin.\n\nOn 31 December 1999, in an announcement aired at 12:00 pm MSK on Russian television and taped in the morning of the same day, Yeltsin said he had resigned and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin had taken over as acting president, with elections due to take place on 26 March 2000. Yeltsin asked for forgiveness for what he acknowledged were errors of his rule, and said Russia needed to enter the new century with new political leaders. Yeltsin said:\n\nI want to ask for your forgiveness, that many of our dreams didn't come true. That what seemed to us to be simple turned out painfully difficult. I ask forgiveness for the fact that I didn't justify some of the hopes of those people who believed that with one stroke, one burst, one sign we could jump from the grey, stagnant, totalitarian past to a bright, rich, civilized future. I myself believed this. One burst was not enough... but I want you to know – I've never said this, today it's important for me to tell you: the pain of every one of you, I felt in myself, in my heart... in saying farewell, I want to say to every one of you: be happy. You deserve happiness. You deserve happiness, and peace.\n\nBy some estimates, his approval ratings when leaving office were as low as 2%.\n\nYeltsin suffered from heart disease during his first term as President of the Russian Federation, probably continuing for the rest of his life. He is known to have suffered heart problems in March 1990, just after being elected as a member of parliament. It was common knowledge that in early 1996 he was recuperating from a series of heart attacks and, soon after, he spent months in hospital recovering from a quintuple bypass operation (see above). His death in 2007 was recorded as due to congestive heart failure.\n\nAccording to numerous reports, Yeltsin was alcohol dependent. The subject made headlines abroad during Yeltsin's visit to the U.S. in 1989 for a series of lectures on social and political life in the Soviet Union. A report in the Italian newspaper \"La Repubblica\", reprinted by \"Pravda\", reported that Yeltsin often appeared drunk in public. His alleged alcoholism was also the subject of media discussion following his meeting with U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott following Clinton's inauguration in 1993 and an incident during a flight stop-over at Shannon Airport, Ireland, in September 1994 when the waiting Irish prime minister Albert Reynolds was told that Yeltsin was unwell and would not be leaving the aircraft. Reynolds tried to make excuses for him in an effort to offset his own humiliation in vainly waiting outside the plane to meet him. Speaking to the media in March 2010, Yeltsin's daughter Tatyana Yumasheva claimed that her father had suffered a heart attack on the flight from the United States to Moscow and was therefore not in a position to leave the plane.\n\nAccording to former Deputy Prime Minister of Russia Boris Nemtsov, the bizarre behavior of Yeltsin resulted from \"strong drugs\" given to him by Kremlin doctors, which were incompatible even with a small amount of alcohol. This was discussed by journalist Yelena Tregubova from the \"Kremlin pool\" in connection with an episode during Yeltsin's visit to Stockholm in 1997 when Yeltsin suddenly started talking nonsense (he allegedly told his bemused audience that Swedish meatballs reminded him of Björn Borg's face), lost his balance, and almost fell down on the podium after drinking a single glass of champagne. Tregubova barely escaped an assassination attempt after publishing this material.\n\nYeltsin, in his memoirs, claimed no recollection of the event but did make a passing reference to the incident when he met Borg a year later at the World Circle Kabaddi Cup in Hamilton, Ontario, where the pair had been invited to present the trophy. He made a hasty withdrawal from the funeral of King Hussein of Jordan in February 1999.\n\nAfter Yeltsin's death, a Dutch neurosurgeon, Michiel Staal, said that his team had been secretly flown to Moscow to operate on Yeltsin in 1999. Yeltsin suffered from an unspecified neurological disorder that affected his sense of balance, causing him to wobble as if in a drunken state; the goal of the operation was to reduce the pain .\n\nAccording to author and historian Taylor Branch's interviews with Bill Clinton, on a 1995 visit to Washington D.C., Yeltsin was found on Pennsylvania Avenue, drunk, in his underwear and trying to hail a taxi cab in order to find pizza.\n\nYeltsin's personal and health problems received a great deal of attention in the global press. As the years went on, he was often viewed as an increasingly drunk and unstable leader, rather than the inspiring figure he was once seen as. The possibility that he might die in office was often discussed. Starting in the last years of his presidential term, Yeltsin's primary residence was the \"Gorki-9\" presidential dacha west of Moscow. He made frequent stays at the nearby government sanatorium in Barvikha.\n\nIn October 1999 Yeltsin was hospitalized with flu and a fever, and in the following month he was hospitalized with pneumonia, just days after receiving treatment for bronchitis.\n\nYeltsin maintained a low profile after his resignation, making almost no public statements or appearances. He criticized his successor in December 2000 for supporting the reintroduction of the Soviet-era national anthem. In January 2001 he was hospitalized for six weeks with pneumonia resulting from a viral infection. On 13 September 2004, following the Beslan school hostage crisis and nearly concurrent terrorist attacks in Moscow, Putin launched an initiative to replace the election of regional governors with a system whereby they would be directly appointed by the president and approved by regional legislatures. Yeltsin, together with Mikhail Gorbachev, publicly criticized Putin's plan as a step away from democracy in Russia and a return to the centrally-run political apparatus of the Soviet era.\n\nIn September 2005, Yeltsin underwent a hip operation in Moscow after breaking his femur in a fall while on holiday in the Italian island of Sardinia. On 1 February 2006, Yeltsin celebrated his 75th birthday.\n\nBoris Yeltsin died of congestive heart failure on 23 April 2007, aged 76. According to experts quoted by \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\", the onset of Yeltsin's condition was due to his visit to Jordan between 25 March and 2 April. He was buried in the Novodevichy Cemetery on 25 April 2007, following a period during which his body had lain in repose in the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour in Moscow.\n\nYeltsin was the first Russian head of state in 113 years to be buried in a church ceremony, after Emperor Alexander III. He was survived by his wife, Naina Iosifovna Yeltsina, whom he married in 1956, and their two daughters Yelena and Tatyana, born in 1957 and 1959, respectively.\n\nPresident Putin declared the day of his funeral a national day of mourning, with the nation's flags flown at half mast and all entertainment programs suspended for the day. Putin said, upon declaring 25 April 2007 a day of national mourning, that:\n\n[Yeltsin's] presidency has inscribed him forever in Russian and in world history. ... A new democratic Russia was born during his time: a free, open and peaceful country. A state in which the power truly does belong to the people. ... the first President of Russia’s strength consisted in the mass support of Russian citizens for his ideas and aspirations. Thanks to the will and direct initiative of President Boris Yeltsin a new constitution, one which declared human rights a supreme value, was adopted. It gave people the opportunity to freely express their thoughts, to freely choose power in Russia, to realise their creative and entrepreneurial plans. This Constitution permitted us to begin building a truly effective Federation. ... We knew him as a brave and a warm-hearted, spiritual person. He was an upstanding and courageous national leader. And he was always very honest and frank while defending his position. ... [Yeltsin] assumed full responsibility for everything he called for, for everything he aspired to. For everything he tried to do and did do for the sake of Russia, for the sake of millions of Russians. And he invariably took upon himself, let it in his heart, all the trials and tribulations of Russia, peoples' difficulties and problems.\n\nShortly after the news broke, former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev issued a statement, saying: \"I express my profoundest condolences to the family of the deceased, who had major deeds for the good of the country as well as serious mistakes behind him. It was a tragic destiny.\"\n\nIn April 2008, a new memorial to Yeltsin was dedicated in Moscow's Novodevichy cemetery, to mixed reactions. At the memorial service, a military chorus performed Russia's national anthem – an anthem that was changed shortly after the end of Yeltsin's term, to follow the music of the old Soviet anthem, with lyrics reflecting Russia's new status.\n\nIn 2015 the Boris Yeltsin Presidential Center was opened in Yekaterinburg.\n\nRussian and Soviet\n\nForeign awards\n\nDepartmental awards\n\nReligious awards\n\nTitles\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39152228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39152228", "title": "Chaturprahar", "text": "Chaturprahar\n\nChaturprahar is an annual Indian classical music festival held at National Centre for Performing Arts (NCPA) in Mumbai, India. It is based on the concept of association of time (prahar) with the ragas. 2011 saw the inception of this festival. It usually takes place in the month of September every year.\n\nThe festival started in 2011 at NCPA, Mumbai. It explores various ragas associated with different times of the day. Singing these ragas at their particular times brings out the most in them. For instance, Ragas like Lalat or Bhatiyar or Bibhas are early morning ragas whereas the ones which emerge from Kalyan thaat are best when heard in the evening towards the night.\n\nSince 2011, the following artists have embraces the stage with their performances at Chaturprahar:\n\n2011: Kaushiki Chakrabarty performed in the morning session\nSmt Devaki Pandit performed in the afternoon session. She brought out the best in her while rendering ragas like Shuddha Sarang (Bade Ghulam Ali Khan Saab's bandish Tapan Lage re) and Madhmad and Badhans Sarang.\nPandit Ulhas Kashalkar performed in both the morning and late afternoon/evening sessions. In the evening session, he rendered, in his soulful voice, Raga Dhanasree, Raga Multani\n\n2012: This year saw performances from stalwarts like Gundecha brothers, Ashwini Bhide Deshpande and Jayteerth Mevundi\n\n"}
{"id": "20830336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20830336", "title": "Chicago Opera House", "text": "Chicago Opera House\n\nThe Chicago Opera House, was a theater complex in Chicago, Illinois, designed by the architectural firm of Cobb and Frost. The Chicago Opera House building took the cue provided by the Metropolitan Opera of New York as a mixed-used building: it housed both a theater and unrelated offices, used to subsidize the cost of the theater building. The theater itself was located in the middle of the complex and office structures flanked each side. The entire complex was known as the \"Chicago Opera House Block,\" and was located at the Southwest corner of West Washington Avenue and North Clark Street.\n\nThe Chicago Opera House was opened to the public on August 18, 1885. The first performance in the new theater was of \"Hamlet\" starring Thomas W. Keene. From 1887 to 1890, the Chicago Opera House served as the official observation location for recording the climate of the city of Chicago by the National Weather Service.\n\nThe theater suffered a fire in December 1888, which mainly damaged portions of the roof. However, the roof was repaired, and most of the exterior of the building remained undamaged. During its existence, the Chicago Opera House was the site of the premiere of several successful musicals such as \"Sinbad\" and \"The Arabian Nights\".\n\nThe last performance at the building was the stage play \"The Escape\" by Paul Armstrong (later made into a film, now lost, by D.W. Griffith in 1914). Demolition on The Chicago Opera House began May 5, 1913. The site is currently occupied by the Burnham Center (formerly known as the Conway Building), completed in 1915.\n\nThe idea for the Chicago Opera House came from Scottish-born newspaperman and financier David Henderson. Henderson \"planned the scheme and the stock – 550,000 – was subscribed in six weeks. Thus Chicago had the first fireproof, steel constructed, electric lighted theatre in the country.\" The construction of the Chicago Opera House was one of the earliest examples of general contracting, run by George A. Fuller. Upon completion, the masonry-clad building was 10 stories and tall.\n"}
{"id": "3367760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3367760", "title": "Cities in the Great Depression", "text": "Cities in the Great Depression\n\nThroughout the industrial world, cities were hit hard during the Great Depression, beginning in 1929 and lasting through most of the 1930s. Worst hit were port cities (as world trade fell) and cities that depended on heavy industry, such as steel and automobiles. Service-oriented cities were hurt less severely. Political centers such as Canada, Texas, Washington, London and Berlin flourished during the Great Depression, as the expanded role of government added many new jobs.\n\nCanada's economy at the time was just starting to industrialize primary industries (agriculture, fishing, mining and logging) to manufacturing. Exports and prices of raw materials plunged, and employment, prices and profits fell in every sector. Canada was the worst-hit (after the United States) because of its economic position. It was further affected as its main trading partners were the U.S. and Britain.\n\nThe hardest-hit cities were the heavy industry centers of Southern Ontario. They included Hamilton (Canada's largest steel center), Toronto, Tilbury, and Windsor, an automotive manufacturing center linked to its larger neighbour, Detroit. In Ontario, unemployment skyrocketed to roughly 45%.\n\nThe Prairie Provinces and Western Canada were among the hardest-hit; they fully recovered after 1939. The fall of wheat prices drove many farmers to the towns and cities, such as Calgary, Alberta, Regina, Saskatchewan, and Brandon, Manitoba.\n\nWomen held 25-30% of the jobs in the cities. Few women were employed in heavy industry, railways or construction. Many were household workers or were employed in restaurants and family-owned shops. Women factory workers typically handled clothing and food. Educated women had a narrow range of jobs, such as clerical work and teaching. It was expected that a woman give up a good job when she married. Srigley emphasizes the wide range of background factors and family circumstances, arguing that \"gender\" itself was typically less important than race, ethnicity, or class.\n\nSingapore, at the time of British colony, was integrated into the world economy and suffered economic declines like other trading cities. However the people of Singapore were resilient in coping. Those who remained in the city used complex relationships among Chinese kinfolk; they shared food, housing, and clothing, and minimized the negative impacts. They spread work around, and provided an intelligence network to assist relatives in finding temporary employment. The safety valve of emigration to rural areas reduced the overall negative impact.\n\nAlthough the impact of the Great Depression on Great Britain was less severe than elsewhere, the industrial cities of the Midlands, the North, and Scotland were very hard-hit.\n\nLiverpool and Manchester with years of high unemployment had already acquired a reputation as highly depressed areas. City leaders fought back, have promoted a series of reforms and innovations in the infrastructure that made them leaders in the new urban redevelopment. Grandiose projects included the Wythenshawe Estate, the Mersey Tunnel and the Manchester Central Library. They created jobs and boosted local economies and morale. Promoters strongly emphasized how the redevelopment projects presented new images of Liverpool and Manchester. One goal was to integrate the newly enfranchised voters, a strategy also employed by the Conservative party to engage with the mass electorate.\n\nThe worldwide Great Depression had a moderate impact on the French economy, which proved resilient. Conditions worsened in 1931 bringing hardships and a more somber mood. Unemployment rose, and hours of work were cut; however the price of food sharply declined, offsetting some of the hardship. The population of Paris declined slightly from its all-time peak of 2.9 million in 1921 to 2.8 million in 1936. The arrondissements in the center lost as much as twenty percent of their population, while the outer neighborhoods, gained ten percent. The low birth rate of Parisians was compensated by a new wave of immigration from Russia, Poland, Germany, eastern and central Europe, Italy, Portugal and Spain. Political tensions mounted in Paris with strikes, demonstrations and confrontations between the Communists and \"Front populaire\" on the extreme left and the Action Française on the extreme right.\n\nIn Germany, the depression had reached its worst in 1932, with 6 million unemployed, spread throughout every city. From 1928 to 1932 unemployment in Berlin soared from 133,000 to 600,000. In Hamburg, a port city, the numbers went from 32,000 to 135,000. In Dortmund, in the Ruhr industrial region, it went from 12,000 to 65,000. Berlin verged on political chaos as Communist and Nazi paramilitary forces fought for control of the streets. Overall the Nazis were weakest in the largest cities, which were controlled by Socialist and Communist parties (and in Catholic areas, the Center party). After 1933, the Nazi government greatly expanded arms production, which reduced unemployment.\n\nBerlin, and the other cultural centers, were especially hard-hit. The publicly subsidized city and state theaters that were the center of cultural life took heavy cuts. After 1933, the Nazis imposed a new, heavily subsidized cultural order that glorified Nazi ideals and ridiculed the artistic achievements of the Weimar era.\n\nThe Soviet Union was largely cut off from world affairs, and during the 1930s was engaged in a very large scale maneuver to force peasants off the land and relocating them in industrial cities. Many factories, electrical plants, and transportation facilities were built along these lines. The most dramatic showpiece was the Moscow subway. The Moscow Metro opened in 1935 and immediately became the centerpiece of the transportation system. More than that it was a Stalinist device to awe and control the populace, and give them an appreciation of Soviet realist art. It became the prototype for future Soviet large-scale technologies. Lazar Kaganovich was in charge; he designed the subway so that citizens would absorb the values and ethos of Stalinist civilization as they rode. The artwork of the 13 original stations became nationally and internationally famous. For example, the Sverdlov Square subway station featured porcelain bas-reliefs depicting the daily life of the Soviet peoples, and the bas-reliefs at the Dynamo Stadium sports complex glorified sports and the physical prowess of the powerful new \"Homo Sovieticus.\" (Soviet man). The metro was touted as the symbol of the new social order—a sort of Communist cathedral of engineering modernity. Soviet workers did the labor and the art work, but the main engineering designs, routes, and construction plans were handled by specialists recruited from the London Underground. The Britons called for tunneling instead of the \"cut-and-cover\" technique, the use of escalators instead of lifts, and designed the routes and the rolling stock. The paranoia of Stalin and the NKVD was evident when the secret police arrested numerous British engineers for espionage—that is for gaining an in-depth knowledge of the city's physical layout. Engineers for the Metropolitan Vickers Electrical Company were given a show trial and deported in 1933, ending the role of British business in the USSR.\n\nU.S. larger cities in the 1920s enjoyed strong growth. With the end of large-scale immigration, populations stabilized and the plentiful jobs in the cities pulled families upwards in terms of social mobility. Investment in office buildings, stores, factories, utilities, streets, and, especially, apartments and single-family homes, added substantially to the infrastructure, and contributed to the notion that better times lay ahead. However, after 1929, the optimism ebbed away, overwhelmed by a deepening pessimism that made long-term private investment seem inadvisable.\n\nThe Depression's damage to large cities, suburbs, towns and rural areas varied according to the economic base. Most serious in larger cities was the collapse of the construction industry with new starts falling to less than 10% of the norm of the late 1920s. Although much needed work was deferred, maintenance and repair of existing structures comprised over a third of the private sector construction budget in the 1930s. Devastating was the disappearance of 2 million high paying jobs in the construction trades, plus the loss of profits and rents that humbled many thousands of landlords and real estate investors.\n\nSecond came the general downturn in industry, especially heavy manufacturing. Steel in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and Gary, Indiana, and automobiles in Detroit took the heaviest hits, along with railroads and coal mining. In these sectors, the largest cities suffered somewhat less than smaller mill towns, mining camps and railroad centers. Unemployment was a problem everywhere, but it was less severe among women than men, among workers in non-durable industries (such as food and clothing), in services and sales, and in government jobs. A sharp educational gradient meant that the less skilled inner city men had much higher unemployment rates than the high-school and college educated men who lived in outer zones and suburbs.\n\nAlthough suburbia stopped growing, it did not suffer nearly as much as the central cities. While some unemployed came to the cities looking for relief, it appears that even larger numbers of unemployed returned to family farms. For the first time ever, the movement of native population was away from cities and toward rural America.\n\nThe fiscal soundness of city and county governments was challenged by the rise in relief expenditures and the sharp fall in tax collections. The Hoover Administration had encouraged state and local governments to expand public works projects, which they did in 1930 and 1931. While this expansion may have slowed the rise in unemployment, the spending was a luxury that could not be borne in the face of falling tax revenues and the unwillingness of investors to put more money into municipal bonds. After 1933, new sales taxes and infusions of federal money helped relieve the fiscal distress.\n\nWhile local relief before 1932 focused on providing small sums of cash or baskets of food and coal for the neediest, the federal programs launched by Hoover and greatly expanded by the New Deal tried to use massive construction projects with prevailing wages to jumpstart the economy and solve the unemployment crisis. ERA, FERA, WPA and PWA built and repaired the public infrastructure in dramatic fashion but did little to foster the recovery of the private sector. In sharp contrast to Britain, where private housing construction pulled the country out of depression, American cities saw little private construction or investment, and so they languished in the economic doldrums even as their parks, sewers, airports and municipal buildings were enhanced. The problem in retrospect was that the New Deal's investment in the public infrastructure had only a small \"multiplier\" effect, in contrast to the high multiplier for jobs that private investment might have created.\n\nFranklin Delano Roosevelt had a magnetic appeal to the city dwellers—he brought relief and recognition of their ethnic leaders and ward bosses, as well as labor unions. Taxpayers, small business and the middle class voted for Roosevelt in 1936 but turned sharply against him after the recession of 1937-38 seemed to belie his promises of recovery. Roosevelt's New Deal Coalition discovered an entirely new use for city machines in his three reelection campaigns of the New Deal and the Second World War. Traditionally, local bosses minimized turnout so as to guarantee reliable control of their wards and legislative districts. To carry the electoral college, however, Roosevelt needed to carry the entire state, and thus needed massive majorities in the largest cities to overcome the hostility of suburbs and towns.\n\nWith Harry Hopkins his majordomo, Roosevelt used the WPA as a national political machine. Men on relief could get WPA jobs regardless of their politics, but hundreds of thousands of well-paid supervisory jobs were given to the local Democratic machines. The 3.5 million voters on relief payrolls during the 1936 election cast 82% of their ballots for Roosevelt. The vibrant labor unions, heavily based in the cities, likewise did their utmost for their benefactor, voting 80% for him, as did Irish, Italian and Jewish voters. In all, the nation's 106 cities over 100,000 population voted 70% for FDR in 1936, compared to his 59% elsewhere. Roosevelt won reelection in 1940 thanks to the cities. In the North, the cities over 100,000 gave Roosevelt 60% of their votes, while the rest of the North favored Willkie 52%-48%. It was just enough to provide the critical electoral college margin. With the start of full-scale war mobilization in the summer of 1940, the cities revived. The new war economy pumped massive investments into new factories and funded round-the-clock munitions production, guaranteeing a job to anyone who showed up at the factory gate.\n\nThe American mafia and some other organized crime syndicates, which had emerged during Prohibition, usually retained power despite heavy pressure from the FBI and federal authorities. Those mob figures that had not been shut down by the authorities often already ran powerful business empires and, though the declining economy severely challenged them, the desperation of the unemployed and underemployed working class often increased their power and influence. Gambling, prostitution, and loansharking provided substitutes for illegal liquor.\n\nSome cities managed to thrive during the Depression because of the economic activity generated by criminal enterprises. Atlantic City, long an established resort town, struggled during the Depression but managed to maintain a strong economy in large part due to illegal gambling activities with an unlimited supply of customers from Philadelphia and New York City. Galveston, Texas was one of the most successful examples; the island city, Free State of Galveston, run by the Maceo syndicate, became a major resort town due to its lavish, illegal casino districts enabled by a corrupt law enforcement environment. The small, desert town of Las Vegas, Nevada began to develop based on vice businesses during this period with the added advantage that laws there were much less strict.\n\nIn the American colony of the Philippines, the Main political dispute over independence was settled by 1934 with the decision that the Philippines would become independent in 1946. The Great Depression was much less severe than in the United States, primarily because the sharp drop in the cost of food work to the benefit of the working class in the city. Washington provided much of the funding for a large middle-class bureaucracy and for major construction projects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2391828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2391828", "title": "Claude Eatherly", "text": "Claude Eatherly\n\nClaude Eatherly was born in Van Alstyne, Texas, fifty miles northeast of Dallas. His parents, James E. “Bud” Eatherly and Edna Bell George, were both farmers, and Eatherly himself dropped out of North Texas State Teachers’ College in Denton in his senior year to join the Army Air Corps in December, 1940. He graduated from bomber school and was commissioned a second lieutenant in August, 1941.\n\nEatherly was the pilot of Straight Flush, one of seven B-29s of the 393d Bomb Squadron of the 509th Composite Group that took part in the Hiroshima mission, which was the culmination of ten months of training during World War II. It departed Tinian Island at approximately 0137 hours on the morning of August 6, 1945, a little more than an hour ahead of the Enola Gay (which carried the bomb) and flew over Hiroshima with the task of reporting the weather conditions. After reporting the weather was good over the target, Eatherly turned Straight Flush for home, and was over from ground zero when the bomb exploded.\n\nEatherly desperately wanted to remain in the air force, but assigned to meteorology training, he was caught cheating on coursework and was forced to take an honorable discharge. He left the Air Force in 1947 as a major, and worked at an oil company in Houston, Texas where he became a sales manager for a Mobil gasoline station. Consumed by guilt, he attempted suicide by drugs in a hotel in New Orleans, but he survived and was treated in Waco, Texas in a psychiatric hospital for soldiers. His mental condition slowly deteriorated.\n\nJerome Klinkowitz, in \"Pacific Skies: American Flyers in World War II\", writes:\nShortly after leaving the Air Force in 1947, Eatherly took part in arrangements for a raid on Cuba by American adventurers hoping to overthrow the government; here the former weather pilot's responsibilities would involve a flight of bomb-laden P-38 Lightnings obtained as war surplus. The plot was uncovered, and Eatherly was arrested and prosecuted, serving time in jail for this offense.\n\nEatherly claimed to have become horrified by his participation in the Hiroshima bombing, and hopeless at the possibility of repenting for or earning forgiveness for willfully extinguishing so many lives and causing so much pain. He tried speaking out with pacifist groups, sending parts of his paycheck to Hiroshima, writing letters of apology, and once or twice may have attempted suicide. At one point \"he set out to try to discredit the popular myth of the war hero [by] committing petty crimes from which he derived no benefit: he was tried for various forgeries and forged a check for a small amount and contributed the money to a fund for the children of Hiroshima. He held up banks and broke into post offices without ever taking anything.\" He was convicted of forgery in New Orleans, Louisiana and served one year between 1954 and 1955 for the crime. He was also convicted of breaking and entering in West Texas. He then became a salesman in a garage and might have attempted suicide again by drug. In 1959 he avoided prosecution for robbery by entering the Veterans Administration Hospital in Waco, Texas for many months. Some think he committed antisocial acts because of schizophrenia or anxiety disorder.\n\nIt was in this hospital that he began to correspond with Günther Anders, an Austrian philosopher and pacifist, who became his friend in a battle to promote the abolition of nuclear weapons. Eatherly wrote:\n\nWhilst in no sense, I hope, either a religious or a political fanatic, I have for some time felt convinced that the crisis in which we are all involved is one calling for a thorough re-examination of our whole scheme of values and of loyalties. In the past it has sometimes been possible for men to \"coast along\" without posing to themselves too many searching questions about the way they are accustomed to think and to act — but it is reasonably clear now that our age is not one of these. On the contrary I believe that we are rapidly approaching a situation in which we shall be compelled to re-examine our willingness to surrender responsibility for our thoughts and actions to some social institution such as the political party, trade union, church or State. None of these institutions are adequately equipped to offer infallible advice on moral issues and their claim to offer such advice needs therefore to be challenged.\n\nWilliam Bradford Huie, in \"The Hiroshima Pilot\", cast doubt on the Eatherly story, pointing out that Eatherly continued to practice for potential future nuclear bombing missions in the years following the war. He believes that pacifist and anti-nuclear activists created or exaggerated elements of Eatherly’s story for propaganda purposes, and that Eatherly cooperated in this mythmaking from desire for fame or attention. Some of this skepticism was disputed in \"Dark Star\" by Ronnie Dugger. No other persons involved with the bombing of Hiroshima expressed guilt in the way that Eatherly did. \"Enola Gay\" pilot and commanding officer of the 509th Composite Group, Colonel Paul Tibbets, said in his autobiography \"Flight of the Enola Gay\" that he couldn’t understand why Eatherly felt so guilty. While Eatherly did command the weather B-29 that scouted Hiroshima about an hour ahead of Tibbet's B-29 (which was carrying the \"Little Boy\" atomic bomb), \"Buck\" Eatherly had already turned back for their Tinian Island base by the time the bomb was dropped. To quote Tibbets: \"Actually, Major Eatherly did not take part in the attack and did not see the bomb blast that was supposed to have haunted him through many sleepless nights.\" Contrary to popular opinion, one of Eatherly's Straight Flush crewmen has suggested that Eatherly was actually upset that the Hiroshima raid had not made him famous, and was only too eager to play to the journalists that came to get the story of the \"distraught pilot\".\n\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7427608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7427608", "title": "Complete Works (RSC festival)", "text": "Complete Works (RSC festival)\n\nThe Complete Works was a festival set up by the Royal Shakespeare Company, running between April 2006 and March 2007 at Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire, England. The festival aimed to perform \"all\" of Shakespeare's works, including his sonnets, poems and all 37 plays. The RSC claims that this was their largest project in its history.\n\nThe performances had several famous actors and actresses, including Ian McKellen, Patrick Stewart, Judi Dench, and Tamsin Greig. It also contained performances from other parts of the world, including performances in different languages.\n\nAll of the works are listed in chronological order of their first night of their performance.\n\n\nDuring the season, some people won awards for their performances. Most notably, Tamsin Greig won two awards for her role as Beatrice in \"Much Ado About Nothing\". She won both a Laurence Olivier Awards for best actress and Critics' Circle Award for best Shakespearean performance, the first woman ever to win the award.\n\n"}
{"id": "17870288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17870288", "title": "Concordia (1696 ship)", "text": "Concordia (1696 ship)\n\nThe Concordia was a Dutch VOC sailing ship that left Batavia on 15 January 1708 with two other vessels, \"Zuiderburg\" and \"Mercurius\". \"Concordia\" had 130 people on board and was bound for the Cape of Good Hope, and then the Netherlands. She was last sighted by \"Mercurius\" in open seas to the south of Sunda Strait on 5 February 1708, in bad weather.\n\nBuilt in 1696, \"Concordia\" was a large ship for her day, being approximately 900 tons.\nOn 15 January 1708, under the command of Joris Vis, the \"Concordia\" set out from Batavia on a return trip to the Netherlands with two other VOC ships; \"Zuiderberg\" and \"Mercurius\". Of the 130 passengers and crew on board, there were several women returning home and some Balinese being deported from the Dutch East Indies to the Cape of Good Hope, due to bad conduct.\n\nOnly the \"Mercurius\" reached the Cape of Good Hope. The Captain of \"Mercurius\" reported that \"Concordia\" and \"Zuiderburg\" had last been sighted together in open seas to the south of Sunda Strait on 5 February 1708, in bad weather. On 22 February, the crew of \"Mercurius\" found floating debris. They saw several goods in the water, some firewood, a chest of tea, a Chintz piece of cotton, a carpenters boor, white candles, and the staves for barrels. The \"Concordia\" was officially listed as being lost somewhere near Mauritius in 1708.\n\nOne known passenger aboard the \"Concordia\" was Mr Constantijn van Baerle, a VOC official.\n\nIn 1832, a covert English expedition to inland Australia commanded by a Lieutenant Nixon reportedly discovered a group of white Dutch people (80 men and 10 females) living in a desert oasis believed to be Palm Valley in the Northern Territory. The existence was first reported in February 1834, in an English newspaper called \"The Leeds Mercury\". There were other articles in a Dutch scientific journal, and the \"Perth Gazette\" of 1837.\n\nThe \"Leeds Mercury\" story claimed that Lt. Nixon had spoken to the settlers in a broken form of old Dutch and the leader or chief of the group, was a descendant of an officer whose name was \"van Baerle\". The party remained with the group for eight days.\n\nNixon stated:\n\nDespite extensive research, no trace or direct evidence of the settlers has ever been found. Historians now believe the original 1834 \"Leeds Mercury\" story was a hoax.\n\n"}
{"id": "28925212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28925212", "title": "Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union", "text": "Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union\n\nThe Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union () was the highest body of state authority of the Soviet Union from 1989 to 1991.\n\nThe Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union was created as part of Mikhail Gorbachev's reform agenda, and was enabled by Gorbachev's first constitutional change.\n\nOn 1 July 1988, the fourth and last day of the 19th Party Conference, Gorbachev won the backing of the delegates for his last minute proposal to create a new supreme legislative body called the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union. Frustrated by the 'old guard's resistance to his attempts to liberalise Gorbachev had changed tack and embarked upon a set of constitutional changes to try and separate party and state, and thereby isolate his conservative opponents. Detailed proposals for the new Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union were published for public consultation on 2 October 1988, and to enable the creation of the new legislature the Supreme Soviet, during its 29 November to 1 December 1988 session, implemented the amendments to the 1977 Soviet Constitution, enacted a law on electoral reform, and set the date of the election for 26 March 1989.\n\nThe Congress consisted of 2,250 deputies elected in three different ways:\n\nThe congress would gather twice a year and would then elect the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union consisting of a smaller number of deputies. The Supreme Soviet would then serve as a permanent legislature, deciding all but the most important issues, such as amendments to the Soviet constitution, which were left to the full Congress only.\n\nThe month-long nomination of candidates for the Congress of People's Deputies of the USSR (CPD) lasted until 24 January 1989. For the next month, selection among the 7,531 districts nominees took place at meetings organized by constituency-level electoral commissions. On 7 March, a final list of 5,074 candidates (one in 399 constituencies, two in 953 constituencies and three or more in 163 constituencies) was published; approximately 85% of these were members of the ruling Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) and 17% were women.\n\nIn the two weeks prior to the 1,500 districts polls, elections to fill 750 reserved seats of public organizations, contested by 880 candidates, were held. Of these seats, 100 were allocated to the CPSU, 100 to the All-Union Central Council of Trade Unions, 75 to the Communist Youth Union (Komsomol), 75 to the Soviet Women's Committee, 75 to the War and Labour Veterans' Organization, and 325 to other organizations such as the Academy of Sciences. The selection process was ultimately completed in April.\n\nIn the 26 March general elections, voter participation was reported at 89.8%. With this polling, 1,958 – including 1,225 district seats – of the 2,250 CPD seats were filled. In the district races, run-off elections were held in 76 constituencies on 2 and 9 April and fresh elections were organized on 20 April and 14 to 23 May in the 199 remaining constituencies where the required absolute majority was not attained.\n\nAt its first session commencing on 25 May, the CPD proceeded to choose the 542 Supreme Soviet members from among 573 candidates. Final results were announced on 27 May. The Supreme Soviet, a \"permanent legislative, administrative and central body of state authority of the USSR\", is to be convened annually by its Presidium for its recurrent spring and autumn sessions to last, as a rule, three to four months each.\n\nThe Supreme Soviet was convened for its first session on 3 June. On 21 July, the composition of the new Council of Ministers, headed by Nikolai Ryzhkov, was announced.\n\nOnly one Congress was elected, in March 1989. The fundamental difference from previous elections in Soviet Union was that elections were actually competitive. Instead of one Communist Party-approved candidate for each seat, multiple candidates were allowed. A variety of different political positions, from Communist to pro-Western, were represented in the Congress, and lively debates took place with different viewpoints expressed.\n\nAs a result of the attempted coup in August 1991, the Congress dissolved itself on 5 September 1991, handing on its powers to the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union and newly created USSR State Council, which (Soviet and State Council) ceased to exist on 26 December 1991, along with the Soviet Union itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "49872181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49872181", "title": "DFW Writers Conference (DFWCon)", "text": "DFW Writers Conference (DFWCon)\n\nThe DFW Writers Conference, also known as DFWCon, is an American annual professional conference for writers in multiple genres. It always takes place in a city within the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex, normally in the spring months.\n\nThe conference's purpose is to help writers grow their professional network, develop their writing skills and business knowledge, and meet with publishing-industry professionals. Attendees include literary agents and editors from publishing houses around the country, and writers from Texas and other states. The conference offers its attendees the opportunity to meet with a literary agent for one-on-one pitch sessions, and its education program typically features more than fifty writing classes.\n\nThe conference started in 2008. It is organized by members of the DFW Writers' Workshop, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that helps writers in multiple genres develop their writing to publication-level quality. The group has operated in the DFW metroplex since 1977.\n\n2008: The first conference took place at the Grapevine Convention Center in Grapevine, Texas, attended by approximately 110 people. Its keynote speaker was entertainment journalist and romance author Candace Havens.\n\n2009: The second event took place at the Grapevine Convention Center in Grapevine, Texas. Its keynote speaker was bestselling thriller author Bob Mayer.\n\n2010: The third event took place at the Grapevine Convention Center in Grapevine, Texas. Its keynote speaker was \"New York Times\"- and \"USA Today\"-bestselling romance author Jodi Thomas.\n\n2011: In its fourth year, the conference had grown to the point where it needed a larger venue. It moved to the American Airlines Training Center in Fort Worth. \"New York Times\"-bestselling romantic thriller author Sandra Brown was the keynote speaker.\n\n2012: Forced to move again due to the size of its attendance, the conference relocated to the new Hurst Convention Center in Hurst, Texas. Bestselling action/adventure and techno-thriller author James Rollins was the keynote speaker.\n\n2013: The conference remained at the Hurst Convention Center in Hurst, Texas. The keynotes this year were Pulitzer Prize nominee, journalist and author Michael Capuzzo and bestselling thriller author Deborah Crombie.\n\n2014: DFWCon took place at the Hurst Convention Center in Hurst, Texas. The keynotes this year were bestselling multi-genre author Jonathan Maberry and literary agent Donald Maass.\n\n2015: For the first time, the conference moved to Dallas and took place at the Dee and Charles Wyly Theatre. Keynote speakers were bestselling mystery writer Charlaine Harris, bestselling science fiction writer Kevin J. Anderson, and photography writer Me Ra Koh.\n\n2016: The 2016 event took place April 23–24 at the Fort Worth Convention Center in Fort Worth, Texas. Its keynote speakers were horror, fantasy and suspense author Christopher Golden and veteran journalists Tara McKelvey and Thomas Kunkel.\n\n"}
{"id": "8893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8893", "title": "December 29", "text": "December 29\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47297623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47297623", "title": "Dosti Music Project", "text": "Dosti Music Project\n\nThe Dosti Music Project is an initiative of Found Sound Nation and the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad that began in 2014. The project brings together musicians from Pakistan, India and the United States for a month-long program to create and record music and then to showcase material on a short tour. Dosti translates to friend in both Urdu and Hindi, and represents the transcendence of political barriers that the program tries to promote through the musical collaboration.\n"}
{"id": "57826769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57826769", "title": "Dying to Survive", "text": "Dying to Survive\n\nDying to Survive is a 2018 Chinese comedy-drama film directed by Wen Muye in his feature film debut. The film is based on the real-life story of Lu Yong (陆勇), a Chinese leukemia patient who smuggled cheap but unproven cancer medicine from India for 1,000 Chinese cancer sufferers in 2004. \"Dying to Survive\" stars Xu Zheng in the lead role, who also co-produced the film with Ning Hao.\n\nAn aphrodisiac peddler, Cheng Yong is in financial trouble. His store has not been making profits for a long time and his father urgently needs a large sum of money for brain surgery.\n\nOne day a man wearing thick layers of surgical masks comes to his shop. He asks Cheng to bring a cheap drug from India in return for a large sum of money. The Swiss drug Geliening is very expensive in China, due to patent protection, causing many patients to not be able to afford the treatments, but, a very inexpensive generic version of it is available in India.\n\nDesperate for money, Cheng agrees to risk smuggling the drug into China. As more CML patients buy drugs from him, Cheng becomes rich. His motivation starts to change after he witnesses devastated patients whose family has been pushed into poverty by costly cancer treatments, walk away with hope for the future.\nAt the same time, Chinese law enforcement agencies notices the availability of the contraband Geliening and vows to crackdown on the unlicensed generic drug as the originator company of the drug begins to sue the Indian government for infringing its patent.\n\n\nOn opening day, the film topped the Chinese box office and grossed , including preview screenings. By the end of its opening weekend, the film had grossed , the fourth biggest opening weekend ever in China. As of September 15, 2018, the film has grossed , becoming the year's third highest-grossing film at the Chinese box office.\n\nPang-Chieh Ho of SupChina wrote that \"Dying to Survive\" \"might be China's best movie of the year\".\n\nThe film sparked debate about the cost of medical care among Chinese people. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang cited the film in an appeal to regulators to \"speed up price cuts for cancer drugs\" and \"reduce the burden on families\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10084870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10084870", "title": "First (magazine)", "text": "First (magazine)\n\nFiRST is a Singaporean movie magazine formerly published monthly, now running as a weekly newspaper insert. \n\nEstablished in December 2002 by SPH Magazines, the magazine was the only Singaporean publication entirely about movies. Each issue contains reviews of films and DVDs, as well as collectibles such as posters and postcards. The magazine also includes movie news, early buzz about upcoming films and exclusive interviews. The magazine focuses mostly on films from Hong Kong and the U.S. Often, freebies such as double-sided posters, postcard packs or A4-sized posters are enclosed. The magazine has won an Honourable Mention for Excellence in Magazine Front Cover Design from the Society of Print Awards in 2006. \"FiRST\"'s tagline is \"Asia's premier movie magazine.\"\n\nFrom 7 May 2009, \"FiRST\" stopped running as a monthly magazine and became a weekly pull-out section in \"The New Paper.\"\n"}
{"id": "24823868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24823868", "title": "Formula Challenge Japan", "text": "Formula Challenge Japan\n\nFormula Challenge Japan is an open wheel racing series based in Japan. The first season was in 2006 and carried on from the defunct Formula Dream series. It is promoted as a young driver development project jointly by Honda, Toyota and Nissan and is positioned as an intermediate level of the domestic motorsport in Japan, lower than the All-Japan Formula Three Championship, but above F4.\n\nFormula Challenge Japan ended after the 2013 season, and was replaced by Japan Formula 4.\n\nBeing backed by the three major automobile manufacturers in Japan, the driver of the series generally consists of the drivers graduating from the racing schools managed by those three, plus a number of privateers meeting the prerequisites.\n\nTo participate in the FCJ series, a driver needs to be younger than 26 years old and possess a National A racing license, but not having raced in Formula Three or above to participate, with a year's subscription fee of around 7.5 million yen. Despite being a series primarily catering the upcoming Japanese drivers, as of 2009 there were foreign drivers competing in the series.\n\nThe cars are open wheelers, running on a Tatuus chassis \n\nand is mated to a 2.0 L 200 hp engine and a six-speed sequential gearbox, similar to a Formula Renault 2.0 car. The engine is a Renault F4R unit badged as FCJ and maintained by Nismo. The tires are manufactured by Dunlop. To ensure parity of the cars, the engine and gearbox are both sealed prior to being delivered to the competitors so that no private tuning could be carried out in between. Moreover, the cars are centrally maintained by the organizers for this purpose.\n\nAs of 2009 the series is run on the same weekends as the Formula Nippon race weekend, and visits the major circuits in Japan like Fuji Speedway, Suzuka Circuit, Twin Ring Motegi and Sportsland Sugo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43708058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43708058", "title": "IFRS 10, 11 and 12", "text": "IFRS 10, 11 and 12\n\nIFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 are three International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) providing accounting guidance related to consolidation and joint ventures. The standards were issued in 2011 and became effective in 2013. IFRS 10 addresses consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11 addresses joint ventures and IFRS 12 address disclosures of interests in other entities. The standards were developed in part in response to the financial crisis of 2008. During the crisis, accounting rules were criticized for permitting certain risky arrangements to be excluded from company balance sheets. IFRS 10 revised the definition of having \"control\" of another entity, and thus requiring that entity to be consolidated onto the controlling entity's balance sheet. The revised definition is expected to increase the likelihood that an entity is deemed to have control over another. IFRS 11 largely retained previous accounting guidance for joint ventures, but adopted the IFRS 10 definition of \"control,\" meaning that \"joint control\" would be deemed to exist in some circumstances where it wasn't previously, and vice versa. IFRS 12 requires the disclosures related to subsidiaries, joint ventures and interests in other entities which are not consolidated to be combined into a single disclosure. It also requires disclosures about judgements used to determine whether control exists, why it determined that control did not exist and its relationship with entities it did not consolidate. These extra disclosures were also in response of criticism of the previous accounting guidance in light of the financial crisis.\n\nThe Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), which promulgates accounting standards in the United States, also revised its consolidation rules in response to the financial crisis, although its revised guidance is not identical to IFRS 10, 11 and 12. However, IFRS 11 is very close to the FASB guidance for joint ventures.\n"}
{"id": "21613021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21613021", "title": "Internet hunting", "text": "Internet hunting\n\nInternet hunting is the practice of hunting via remotely controlled firearms that can be aimed and shot using online webcams. The first internet hunting website, Live-Shot.com, was created in 2005 by John Lockwood, who saw it as a way to provide an authentic hunting experience for disabled persons. According to the Humane Society, the operation consisted of \"a fenced pen stocked with animals [where Lockwood] set up a tripod with a camera and a firearm\". \n\nAlmost as soon as internet hunting was introduced in the U.S. state of Texas, strong opposition to the practice developed among pro-gun and pro-hunting organizations, including the National Rifle Association and Safari Club International, as well as among animal rights and environmental groups. The majority of hunters do not consider the practice to be hunting, as it does not conform to the rules of a \"fair chase\".\n\nAs of August 2008, forty U.S. states had enacted laws or regulations to ban internet hunting. These bans were supported by a Humane Society campaign, and according to the organization, internet hunting is no longer being practiced. Critics say Internet hunting never existed as a viable industry, making much of the legislation curtailing it \"a testament to public alarm over Internet threats and the gilded life of legislation that nobody opposes\". Advocates see the legislation as a proactive measure that may yet curb the practice, which could easily spring up in states or other countries where it is not prohibited.\n\n"}
{"id": "36981216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36981216", "title": "Kevin Madden", "text": "Kevin Madden\n\nKevin Madden (born March 2, 1972) is an American pundit or public relations professional in newspapers and magazines and appears regularly on television news and talk shows, largely on cable news programming in the United States. He was a senior advisor to and spokesman for Mitt Romney's 2012 U.S. presidential campaign.\n\nAfter graduating from college in 1994, Madden went to work for the Yonkers City Council, working for Councilman Carlo DiNota. He soon became the spokesman for family friend John Spencer's successful 1996 Yonkers mayoral campaign. After helping Spencer win re-election, Madden moved to Washington, D.C. and, beginning in 2001, became senior policy advisor and chief spokesman for Congressman John E. Sweeney.\n\nBy the mid 2000s, Madden had had several public relations positions for Republicans in federal government, including as press secretary for House Republican leadership (including then-Majority Leader Tom DeLay and then-Majority Leader John Boehner); as press spokesman for the George W. Bush presidential campaign, 2004; and as one of a handful of national spokespersons and Deputy Director of Public Affairs for the George W. Bush administration Department of Justice. In 2003, the \"Irish Voice\" described Madden's growing stature in the GOP as \"further proof of the heavy influence New York Irish Americans have in the Republican party\". By 2006, \"U.S. News & World Report\" referred to Madden as \"battle-tested\", and alluded to each of his high-profile public relations organizations (first for Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and then for House Republican leadership) as \"a lean operation, an intense focus, and a positive message\".\n\nMadden began working for Mitt Romney's 2008 presidential campaign in 2007, soon with the joint titles 'National Press Secretary' and 'Senior Communications Strategist'. Although John McCain won the Republican (GOP) nomination, a \"Los Angeles Times\" discussion of Romney's unsuccessful 2008 primary campaign noted, \"his media operation CANNOT rank among the problems. Anchored by Kevin Madden -- a savvy and telegenic GOP spokesman -- the press shop was hard-working, well-organized and quick-off-the-mark.\" Also discussing the 2008 campaigns, \"The Belfast Telegraph\" opined that Madden (and Matt Rhoades) \"have built the most sophisticated of all the press operations... Madden, in particular, is genuinely liked and respected by the press\".\n\nThe following election cycle, Kevin Madden joined Mitt Romney's 2012 presidential campaign. As Romney was securing the nomination in July 2012, \"ABC News\" described Madden as \"a face of the campaign\" and as \"a more visible member of the candidate's campaign staff\". In August 2012, \"Politico\" reported that \"Romney is hardly preoccupied with his transition just yet – but...Kevin Madden, traveling spokesman on the campaign plane, would be expected to be named White House spokesman\". Following Romney's 2012 loss, Madden pointed to immigration in particular as \"a missed opportunity for Romney\".\n\nBetween the 2008 and 2012 campaigns, Madden was hired as a Managing Director with The Glover Park Group, a public affairs firm in Washington D.C., before joining Charleston, South Carolina public affairs firm JDA Frontline in March 2010 to launch and direct their Washington, DC operations. Following the 2012 elections, Madden resumed daily responsibilities as JDA's 'Executive Vice President of Public Affairs'.\n\nKevin Madden has appeared on dozens of episodes of many political discussion programs on American cable news programs. His profile at a speaker agency states: \"Madden is regularly called upon to serve as a commentator on the media and politics on network news shows as well as CNN, Fox News Channel, MSNBC, CNBC, Bloomberg and the BBC among others. He has also published political commentary in exclusive venues, such as the opinion sections of \"The New York Times\" and \"The Wall Street Journal\".\" Appearances include: \"Hardball with Chris Matthews\", \"Larry King Live\", \"Verdict with Dan Abrams\", \"The Situation Room\", \"Meet the Press\" and \"Morning Joe\"\n\nMadden appeared in the 2008 documentary film \"The Return of the War Room\", a sequel to \"The War Room\", a 1993 documentary about the 1992 U.S. presidential election.\n\nIn April 2013, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" reported that Kevin Madden was being considered for the proposed relaunch of CNN's \"Crossfire\"; the program had been off the air since 2005.\n\nMadden alludes to his childhood in Yonkers, New York, when he describes himself as \"A simple city boy – you might say a cockeyed optimist – mixed up in the high stakes game of world diplomacy and international intrigue...\" \"U.S. News\" referred to Madden as \"a Yankees fan\" and an \"Irishman\"; his Galway-born father and Tyrone-born mother emigrated from Ireland in the early 1960s. Madden told the \"Houston Chronicle\" that his father, an auto mechanic, read three newspapers each Sunday and enjoyed discussing news and politics; he told \"Politico\", \"I grew up in a household where it was a sin to sit in silence without an opinion... Makes sense that I went into politics, my sister chose journalism, and my brother is a lawyer.\"\n\nRaised as a Roman Catholic, Madden attended and was graduated from a parochial Roman Catholic school, then from Morrisville State College in 1992, and earned an undergraduate degree in communication studies from the State University of New York at Cortland in 1994. On November 22, 2003, Madden married Jaclyn Norris (of Pittsburgh), then legislative director for Congressman Ric Keller and former intern for Senator Rick Santorum; \"Harper's Magazine\" described Norris as \"strikingly beautiful\". Norris continued employment in a range of Congressional staff assignments until 2007.\n\nBy 2010, the couple had three sons. Several reports from Romney's 2008 campaign repeat an anecdote from November 2007, describing Madden's then twenty-month-old son \"strutting about with a Blackberry, jabbering nonsense and punching away at the keys. \"I was so heartbroken,\" [Madden] quipped... \"I wanted my kid to be a football star, not a national press secretary.\"\" Madden cites his \"pro-life\" identification as one reason for his affiliation as a Republican.\n\nIn a 2008 article about several District of Columbia communications professionals, the UK's \"The Independent\" noted, \"Madden, in particular, is genuinely liked and respected\". Also in 2008, the \"Washington Post\" stated, \"Madden attracts comments about his matinee-idol looks.\" In 2006, \"The Hill\", a newspaper focusing on Congress, ranked Kevin Madden as second on their \"50 Most Beautiful\" list, an honor Madden himself compared with \"sitting in a dunk tank for a year\". Despite Madden's work for right-leaning Republicans, even those leaning left such as \"The Raw Story\" columnist and editor Megan Carpentier have opined, \"There's no denying he's pretty.\" When Howard Kurtz asked Madden about his looks in 2008, Madden replied, \"I'm married and have two boys. My wife wants to make sure I mention that more often.\"\n\nIn a television interview days before the November 2008 election, Madden pointed at a wardrobe matter as \"an indication just how unseasoned Sarah Palin is as a national candidate\"; \"TownHall.com\" characterized Madden's comments as \"trashing\" and \"particularly harsh on Palin\", the GOP's Vice Presidential nominee for the 2008 election. Also during her 2008 campaign, Erick Erickson claimed \"one of the biggest pushers of anti-Palin stories...was Romney spokeshack Kevin Madden\". During a May 2011 exchange on CBS News's \"The Early Show\" regarding the then-upcoming 2012 race for the GOP presidential nomination, Madden criticized Palin for \"using a presidential campaign as a vehicle to build a little bit more of a profile as a celebrity\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2866705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2866705", "title": "Kobe Luminarie", "text": "Kobe Luminarie\n\nLights are kept up for about two weeks and turned on for a few hours each evening. Major streets in the vicinity are closed to auto traffic during these hours to allow pedestrians to fill the streets and enjoy the lights. It is viewed by about three to five million people each year.\n\nWhen the Great Hanshin earthquake struck Kobe on January 17, 1995, it left more than 6,000 dead and caused $100 billon in damages. Since many had to live in darkness due to supply cuts in electricity, gas, and water, the idea of putting up lights acted as a symbol of hope, recovery, and renovation. Though it was only supposed to take place once, strong popularity and demand from citizens encouraged the continuation of luminarie to become an annual event.\n\nSilent prayers to victims of the earthquake takes place in the opening ceremony, and a memorial naming those who were killed is posted during the night.\n\nIn the 2011 luminarie, the same year as the Tohoku earthquake and tsunami, a special exhibition was held to raise money for its victims. In the 2012 luminarie, drawings by children from that region were used to make lanterns displayed at the event.\n\nThe Hanshin earthquake left Kobe at a slump with tourist attractions for obvious reasons. One of the factors that brought tourism back to Kobe was the sincerity of the luminarie event in honoring the victims of the earthquake.\n\nThe event attracts around 4 million people to Kobe every year and raises $1.3 million in donations and $6.1 million in sponsorship and merchandise sales.\n\nThe table below indicates the number of people attending the luminarie event each year since 2004.\n\nThe luminarie also has numerous sponsors. The following are just few of the tens of dozens of sponsors for 2012;\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8768741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8768741", "title": "London Design Festival", "text": "London Design Festival\n\nThe London Design Festival (LDF) is a citywide design event that takes place over nine days every September. Conceived by Sir John Sorrell and Ben Evans in 2003, the concept was to create an annual event to promote the city’s creativity, drawing in the country's thinkers, practitioners, retailers and educators to a deliver a diverse celebration of design.\n\nLondon Design Festival's vision is to celebrate and promote London as the design capital of the world. The Festival programme is made up of over 400 events and exhibitions staged by over 300 partner organisations across the design spectrum and from around the world. The Festival also commissions its own projects and produces a Guide every year, containing information about all activity.\n\nFestival audiences are significant, with an estimated direct audience of over 450,000 people from over 75 countries in 2017. \n\nOver 2,000 international design businesses took part in the 2017 London Design Festival including exhibitors at five Design Destinations: 100% Design, Decorex International, designjunction, Focus/18, and London Design Fair (previously known as \"Tent London\").\n\nIn 2018 ten Design Districts will participate in the Festival - Bankside, Brompton, Clerkenwell, Fitzrovia, Marylebone, Mayfair, Pimlico Road, Regent St & St James's, Shoreditch and West Kensington - offering a programme of events, exhibitions, talks and tours. \n\nThe V&A Museum is the official residency and hub of the Festival, with 2018 seeing the celebration of 10 years in partnership together.\n\nSince 2009 the Victoria & Albert Museum has acted as the central Hub location for the London Design Festival.\n\nIn 2017, London Design Festival helped drive a total of 173,250 visits to the V&A over the Festival period with 22% of those surveyed saying they had never visited the museum before and were driven there by the Festival. Flynn Talbot’s Reflection Room and Ross Lovegrove’s Transmission installations were particularly popular.\n\nFor the nine days of the Festival, visitors to the V&A will explore a range of special displays and installations throughout the museum, complemented by an extensive programme of events, daily tours, and workshops from Global Design Forum, which in 2017 drew 45 speakers from 13 countries, and 2,800 visitors.\n\nCelebrating ten years with the V&A as the official London Design Festival hub, this unique collaboration sees iconic spaces within the Museum transformed each year by an extraordinary collection of specially-commissioned installations and displays by international contemporary designers.\n\nSince 2007, London Design Festival has been commissioning leading designers and architects to create installations in London’s public spaces during the Festival. Locations for these installations have included Trafalgar Square, the Southbank Centre, the V&A, Somerset House, Covent Garden, St Paul's Cathedral and Greenwich Peninsula.\n\n\nEach year a Jury composed of established designers, industry commentators and previous winners choose recipients of \"The British Land Celebration of Design\" across four categories. Winners are chosen from a wide range of design disciplines and awards for their exceptional contribution to their field.\n\nThe London Design Medal categories include:\n\n“While there are no shortage of design awards, we wanted to do it differently: not just a big dinner that everyone has to buy tables for,” says Festival Director Ben Evans. “So we took the Nobel Prize route – there’s no shortlist, just a winner. So that means there’s no losers either.”\n\nThe London Design Medal is designed each year by jewellery designer Hannah Martin. The medals feature a London bird, the Cockney Sparrow, in flight. Previous winners include Sir Ken Adam, Peter Saville, Marc Newson, Sir Paul Smith, Dame Zaha Hadid, Thomas Heatherwick, Sir Terence Conran and Ron Arad.\n\n"}
{"id": "18353899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18353899", "title": "Melodifestivalen 2009", "text": "Melodifestivalen 2009\n\nMelodifestivalen 2009 was a Swedish song contest held between February and March 2009. It was the selection for the 49th song to represent Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest, and was the 48th edition of Melodifestivalen. Five semi-finals were held in the Swedish cities of Gothenburg, Skellefteå, Leksand and Malmö, with Norrköping hosting the final \"Andra Chansen\" (Second Chance) round.\n\nAfter the five semi-finals 11 songs had qualified to the final of the contest, contested in the Swedish capital of Stockholm, at the Globe Arena. After the voting of 12 juries and a public televote had been revealed, the final winner was opera singer Malena Ernman with pop/opera song \"La voix\", which received top marks from the public televote, despite only placing eighth after the votes of the 12 juries.\n\nThe 2009 edition of Melodifestivalen implemented a number of new rules which changed the dynamics of the contest, including an increase in the number of people allowed on stage, the allowance of pre-recorded backing vocals, and a new international jury who selected an eleventh finalist, and voted in the final.\n\nThe current rules for Melodifestivalen were first implemented in 2002 – the format consists of five semi-finals held every year: the first four semi-finals each consist of eight songs, in which the top two songs directly qualify to the final of the contest, while the third and fourth-placed songs qualify to the final semi-final, the \"Andra Chansen\" (Second Chance) round. Eight songs compete in the Second Chance round, competing in a knock-out format until two songs are left, which qualify to the final. These songs are chosen by a public televote held on the night of the contest. The final consisted of 10 songs, who are awarded marks by 11 regional juries of Sweden, alongside televoting, with each constituting 50% of the total result.\n\n28 songs are selected from a public call for songs by SVT. These are chosen from a large number of entries, with over 3000 entries being received by SVT in past contests. These songs are reduced by the Swedish Music Publishers Association (\"Svenska musikförläggareföreningen\"; SMFF), who reduce this large number to around 1200 entries. A sixteen-person jury reduce this number once again to the final 28 competing songs. These 28 songs are then joined by compositions by four songwriters invited by SVT, who each submit a song into the competition.\n\nFor the 2009 contest a number of changes were implemented to this format: the first four semi-finals now include a duel format, with the top four songs competing against each other for a place in the final - the 1st and 4th-placed songs and the 2nd and 3rd-placed songs battled against each other, with the winning songs, as decided by another public televote, qualifying to the final, while the losing songs take part in the Second Chance round.\n\nFor the 2009 contest a maximum of eight people were allowed on stage, an increase from the previous maximum of six. As well as this pre-recorded backing vocals were now allowed to be included on the songs' backing tracks, however the main vocals were still required to be performed on stage.\n\nThis year also marked the introduction of an \"international jury\". The jury consists of 12 members, who all work within the music industry, with many involved in Eurovision. The international jury selected one song from each semi-final that did not qualify to the final, focusing their decision on their suitability for Eurovision. After the Second Chance round had finished, the jury selected their preferred song from the remaining entries, which qualified to the final, becoming the 11th finalist. The international jury also voted during the final of the contest, becoming the 12th jury, alongside the 11 regional juries of Sweden.\n\nOn 11 September 2008 the six cities that were to host Melodifestivlan 2009 were announced: the first semi-final would be held in Sweden's second city, Gothenburg – at the Scandinavium; this was followed by semi-finals in the Skellefteå Kraft Arena, the Ejendals Arena in the small town of Leksand, and in the newly constructed Malmö Arena in Malmö. The Second Chance round was in the Himmelstalundshallen in Norrköping, while the grand final would once again be held at Globen in Stockholm.\n\nThe dates for the contest were also announced, with the first semi-final being held on 7 February, leading up to the final on 14 March 2009 over six weeks.\n\nAfter two years of hosting the contest, it was announced that Kristian Luuk would not be hosting the 2009 edition of Melodifestivalen. He was replaced by comedian Petra Mede, who was announced at the new host in a press conference by SVT on 18 December.\n\nThe logo for the Contest, the now-familiar five spotlights, has not been altered since its interception in 2002, and remained in use for the 2009 Contest. The first details of the stage for this year's contest were released on 29 January 2009, a week before the first semi-final in Gothenburg. The first plans of the stage were made during the summer of 2008 and was, for the third time, designed by Viktor Brattström, with the intention to provide a feeling of endlessness: \"The audience will get the feeling of not knowing where the stage starts or ends, not knowing what's coming up around the corner\".\n\nThe green room, where the artists rested after their performances, was altered from previous contests. Instead of competing artists and composers sitting together at tables, artists sat together on sofas beside the stage, while composers sat together in the front rows of the audience.\n\nA record-breaking 3,440 songs were submitted to the competition, with only 28 proceeding to the next round. The final 28 songs chosen to compete in the semi-finals were released by SVT on 14 October, along with the names of their authors. The names of the performers were held back, and were released in groups over the following weeks. However this did not stop speculation on who would perform certain songs in the semi-final.\n\nThe first eight participants were revealed on 18 November 2009: they included former participants Alcazar, BWO, Måns Zelmerlöw, Lasse Lindh, Caroline af Ugglas and Sarah Dawn Finer, as well as debuting artists Emilia and Jennifer Brown.\n\nOn 23 November, the tenth act was revealed by Melodifestivalen producer Christer Björkman on the reality TV show \"Dansbandkampen\". The Scotts, a participant on the show, was revealed to have been selected to compete in Melodifestivalen 2009 with \"Jag tror på oss\". SVT followed by releasing the next group of competing artists, all of whom had never competed in Melodifestivalen before: H.E.A.T, Jonathan Fagerlund, Maja Gullstrand, Mikael Rickfors, Molly Sandén, Next 3, and Rigo & The Topaz Sound feat. Red Fox were all announced to have been successful in their applying for Melodifestivalen.\n\nSix more artists were revealed on 2 December by SVT's \"Culture News\" – Idol winner Agnes was announced to be making her debut to Melodifestivalen after being disqualified in 2007. The remaining artists announced were all making their returns to Melodifestivalen, including Shirley Clamp, Lili & Susie, Amy Diamond, Sofia and Velvet.\n\nA day before the next group of artists were released by SVT it had been rumoured that two former Eurovision participants would compete in a duet – Estonia's 2002 participant Sahlene, and Norway's 2008 participant, and current host of Norway's equivalent of Melodifestivalen, Melodi Grand Prix, Maria Haukaas Storeng. The following day, on 9 December, SVT confirmed the news, and also announced the names of four more artists: Susanne Alfvengren, the Thorleifs, Nina Söderquist and Cookies 'n Beans.\n\nThe final non-wild card entry to be announced was revealed on 16 December, with the Star Pilots performing \"Higher\" in the contest.\n\nThe wild card (\"joker\") system was introduced in 2004 to diversify the music featured in the competition. Four artists, one in each semifinal, are invited by SVT to enter a song of their choice into the competition, provided it does not breach the rules.\n\nIn a change from previous years, the names of the wild card entries were released alongside the submitted entries instead of the usual method of releasing the wild cards after the other 28 entries. The first wild card entry was released on 19 November, with Melodifestivalen producer Christer Björkman, Jennifer Brown and Måns Zelmerlöw featuring on \"Godmorgon Sverige\". They revealed that Finnish-Swedish singer Markoolio would enter Melodifestivalen with the song \"Kärlekssång från mig\".\n\nThe second wild card entry was announced on 26 November by SVT – opera singer Malena Ernman was confirmed to be participating in this year's contest with \"La voix\", composed by herself and Fredrik Kempe, who also composed last year's winning entry \"Hero\". The third wild card was announced on 3 December, with Marie Serneholt, formerly of A*Teens, taking part with \"Disconnect Me\", written by Peter Boström and Tony Nilsson.\n\nThe final wild card entry was revealed on 16 December – boyband E.M.D., consisting of Erik Segerstedt, Mattias Andréasson and Danny Saucedo (all of them former Idol competitors) were announced as the last competitor, performing \"Baby Goodbye\", written by the band members and Oscar Görres.\n\nWild card entries\nEach of the 32 songs were sorted into one semi-final on 11 December, with 8 songs each competing in a semi-final (including one wild card). However the final running order for the semi-final was conducted on 15 January – Nina Söderquist would open the first semi-final with \"Tick Tock\", while wild card Malena Ernman would close the final semi-final with \"La voix\".\n\nThe four semi-finals were held between 7 and 28 February, with the Second Chance round being held on 7 March.\n\nThe first semi-final was held on 7 February at the Scandinavium in Gothenburg.\n\nThe show began with host Petra Mede introducing the eight competing acts, with a number of skits being shown with former winners Charlotte Perrelli and Martin Stenmarck.\n\nThe first song on stage was Nina Söderquist with \"Tick Tock\", a powerful rock song. Söderquist performed in a black leather outfit, joined by four male backing dancers and two male backing singers, all in black. Fire was used frequently during the performance. Second on stage was Jonathan Fagerlund, performing \"Welcome to My Life\". Fagerlund, dressed in a grey top and jeans, was joined on stage by an all-female backing band for his performance of the light pop/rock song. Next on stage was Melodifestivalen 2004 runner-up Shirley Clamp, performing the first Swedish language song of the contest, \"Med hjärtat fyllt av ljus\" (With my heart full of light). Clamp performed the ballad alone on stage, dressed in a long blue dress. The stage was also bathed in blue light, and wind machines were later used in the performance. The fourth act on stage was dansband the Scotts, performing \"Jag tror på oss\" (I believe in us). The quartet, performing in black and silver suits, were joined by three female backing singers, dressed in short black dresses.\n\nThe fifth act on stage was Emilia, singing \"You're My World\", an up-tempo pop song with jazz elements. Emilia was dressed in a sparkling gold dress, joined on stage by four female backing singers, a pianist, drummer and bassist, all dressed in Big band era inspired outfits. Pyrotechnics were later used towards the end of the song. Next on stage was twice third-placers Alcazar, composed of Andreas Lundstedt, Tess Merkel and Lina Hedlund. Their song \"Stay the Night\", a energetic disco song, began with violet light shining on the band members, dressed in pink and blue. The group were joined by three backing dancers, with dancing featured throughout the song by the trio. The penultimate song was Caroline af Ugglas with \"Snälla snälla\" (Please, please), an emotional ballad. Caroline, dressed in a short white dress with bright blue wellies, gave an emotional performance, with anger and frustration prominent. Last on stage was the semi-finals wild card entry, Marie Serneholt with \"Disconnect Me\". Serneholt performed the energetic pop song in a short white dress, joined by four male dancers, and later by two female backing singers, all in black.\n\nAfter the first round of televoting was conducted Marie Serneholt, Jonathan Fagerlund and Shirley Clamp were all eliminated from the competition after receiving the fewest votes. They were joined by Nina Söderquist, after she received the fewest votes in the second round of voting. All of the remaining four acts progressed to the duels.\n\nIn the duels Alcazar battled against the Scotts for a place in the final, with Alcazar getting more votes against the dansband. Caroline af Ugglas and Emilia also battled for direct qualification, with Emilia winning the place in the final.\n\nA total of 3,294,000 watched the semi-final on SVT, with 721,334 votes cast during the semi-final, a record for the first semi-final of Melodifestivalen. Because of this, 1,396,108kr was donated to SVT's charity appeal \"Radiohjälpen\".\n\nThe second semi-final was held at the Skellefteå Kraft Arena in Skellefteå on 14 February.\n\nThe first act on stage was sisters Lili & Susie with \"Show Me Heaven\". The sisters performed the energetic pop song in white top and black trousers, and were joined on stage by a group of backing dancers/singers, all in black. Large white letters spelt out the title of the song on the backing LED screens, and pyrotechnics were used at the end of the song. Second on stage was Lasse Lindh och Bandet, performing \"Jag ska slåss i dina kvarter!\" (I'll be fighting in your neighbourhood!). Lindh performed the rock song with a backing band and a male backing singer in black. Next on stage was Jennifer Brown with \"Never Been Here Before\", an emotional pop/rock song. Brown, dressed in a silver top and black trousers, was joined on stage by three male violinists, two male trombonists and a male guitarist, who also performed backing vocals. The fourth act on stage was rock band H.E.A.T with \"1000 Miles\". The group performed in black, while the stage was brightened by pulsating light.\n\nFifth on stage was Markoolio, performing \"Kärlekssång från mig\" (Love song from me), a comedic love ballad. Markoolio, dressed in a burgundy suit, was joined on stage by a pianist and a violinist, dressed in black. A man dressed as Elvis appeared from within the piano, dancing and skating on stage, before being set on fire by pyrotechnics at the climax at the song. He was extinguished at the end of the song. Amy Diamond performed next, singing \"It's My Life\". Diamond performed the pop song in a silver jumper, and was accompanied by six female backing dancers in black and pink. Her jumper was removed to reveal a white and black top with black leggings. Large images of diamonds were shown on the screens while blue light shone down on stage. Cookies 'N' Beans were the second last act to take the stage, singing \"What If\", an emotional country ballad. The trio performed alone on stage, dressed in black, blue and red dresses. A guitar solo opened the song before going into the emotional performance of the trio. The last song of the night was \"Hope & Glory\", sung by Måns Zelmerlöw, who previously came third in 2007. The schlager song (with a boxing theme) was performed by Zelmerlöw in a black tuxedo, joined on stage by six female backing dancers/singers in black outfits.\n\nMarkoolio, Jennifer Brown and Lasse Lindh were all eliminated from the competition after receiving the fewest votes in the first round of televoting. In the second round, Cookies 'N' Beans were eliminated after received the fewest votes. The remaining four acts progressed to the duels.\n\nIn the duels H.E.A.T battled against Amy Diamond for the place in the final, with H.E.A.T winning the more votes. Zelmerlöw took on Lili & Susie for the place in the final as well, with Zelmerlöw winning over the sisters.\n\n812,874 votes were cast for the second semi-final, a new record for any semi-final, with an increase of over 60,000 votes over last year's second semi-final. 1,269,806.50kr was donated to SVT's \"Radiohjälpen\" due to the large number of calls made on the night.\n\nThe third semi-final was held on 21 February at the Ejendals Arena in Leksand.\n\nThe first act on stage was Velvet, performing \"The Queen\". Velvet begins the performance in a gigantic pink dress, which opens up to reveal seven backing dancers in Commedia dell'arte dress. The stage was filled with smoke and shone pink. Second on stage was Rigo & The Topaz Sound feat. Red Fox with \"I Got U\". The song mixes Motown with modern elements, with all on stage dressed as such, wearing red and white suits and dresses. The stage was filled to capacity, with two lead singers, a pianist, drummer, guitarist, saxophonist and two female backing singers. The next act on stage was Molly Sandén, who represented Sweden in the Junior Eurovision Song Contest in 2006 with \"Det finaste någon kan få\". At Melodifestivalen she performed \"Så vill stjärnorna\" (We will have the stars). The 16-year-old performed the emotional ballad alone on stage, dressed in an elegant white dress, while screens in the background showed shining stars. The fourth act on stage was boyband E.M.D., performing \"Baby Goodbye\". The boys performed the energetic pop song in black tuxedos, and were joined on stage by four male backing dancers, also in black tuxedos.\n\nNext on stage was Mikael Rickfors with \"Du vinner över mig!\" (You win me over!), a rock/pop song. Rickfors, dressed in a black and navy blue suit, was joined by an all-female backing band, dressed in black, while blue light filled the stage during the performance. Maja Gullstrand was next on stage, singing \"Här för mig själv\" (Here for myself). Gullstrand performed in a short white dress, and joined on stage by a group of backing dancers in minimalistic black suits and dresses, while colourful bubbles were shown on the backing screens. The penultimate act of the night was Sofia with \"Alla\" (Άλλα; Other), an ethno pop song with rock elements, performed in Greek. Sofia, dressed in black, was joined on stage by two male violinists in black, as well as four women playing large transparent drums on stage, while the stage was filled with colourful light. The last act on stage was three-time participants BWO performing \"You're Not Alone\", a sentimental electric ballad. The band, consisting of Martin Rolinski on vocals and Alexander Bard and Marina Schiptjenko on keyboards, were dressed in futuristic space suits in grey and yellow. They were joined on stage by five backing dancers, also dressed in the same styles, using light skicts during the performance. Images of comets passing throung space were also shown on the backing screens.\n\nVelvet, Sofia and Maja Gullstrand were knocked out after the first round of televoting, receiving the fewest votes. Mikael Rickfors joined them after the second round, also receiving the fewest votes. The four remaining acts passed through to the duels.\n\nIn the duels Rigo & The Topaz Sound feat. Red Fox battled E.M.D., with E.M.D. winning the more votes and progressing to the final. BWO took on Molly Sandén for the place in the final as well, with Sandén coming out on top.\n\n691,238 votes were cast for the third semi-final, with 1,053,643kr being donated to SVT's \"Radiohjälpen\" from the calls.\n\nThe fourth and final semi-final was held on 28 February at the new Malmö Arena in Malmö.\nFirst on stage was Agnes with \"Love Love Love\", a Europop song. Anges performed in a skin-tight gold outfit, and was joined on stage by six backing dancers in black and gold. Agnes began her performance on a lit catwalk, while a moving city skyline was shown on the backing screens. Confetti also fell towards the end of the song. The Star Pilots were next on stage with \"Higher\". The band were dressed as pilots, and in the background images of airplanes, runways and airplane wheels were shown. The third act on stage was Susanne Alfvengren with the emotional ballad \"Du är älskad där du går\" (You are loved where you go). Alfvengren performed alone on stage, dressed in a long purple dress, while the stage was lighted by shining lights on the backing screens. Two former Eurovision artists were next on stage, with Anna Sahlene and Maria Haukaas Storeng pairing up to perform \"Killing Me Tenderly\". The duo, dressed in silver dresses, were joined by five female backing dancers who created silouhettes of themselves on the backing screens. The LED screens in the background showed flames and lava, with red light pouring onto the stage.\n\nNext on stage was the Thorleifs with \"Sweet Kissin' in the Moonlight\", a nostalgic rock/pop/schlager entry. The band were dressed in matching white suits, with the lead singer in black. The five-piece band were later joined by three backing dancers in 1950s clothing, with red polka dot dresses and red braces. Sarah Dawn Finer followed with \"Moving On\", dressed in red. The performance began with a sunrise being shown on the LED screens, with wind machines introduced at the chorus. Two male backing dancers in white joined afterwards, followed by three feamle backing singers, also in white. Finer was then raised by an automatic lift towards the side of the stage. The penultimate act was boyband Next 3 with \"Esta noche\" (Tonight), sung in Swedish, with the chorus in Spanish. The trio were joined by three female backing dancers and two fire jugglers for their performance, while the screens showed urban scenes. The final act was wild card Malena Ernman with opera song \"La voix\" (The voice), performed in English and French during the chorus. Ernman, dressed in a long black dress, was joined by seven backing dancers in black and white, who performed with black shining masks towards the end. the backing screens and floor were coloured in solid colours, with green and purple in the verses and white and blue during the chorus.\n\nNext 3, Anna Sahlene & Maria Haukaas Storeng and Susanne Alfvengren were knocked out after the first round of televoting, receiving the fewest votes. They were joined by the Thorleifs who received the fewest votes during the second round. The remaining four acts passed to the duels.\n\nThe Star Pilots and Agnes battled for a place in the final, with Agnes winning over the pilots. Malena Ernman and Sarah Dawn Finer also battled for the last direct place in the final, which was won by Ernman.\n\nA total of 639,928 televotes were cast during the final semi-final, with a total of 1,122,841.50kr donated to the \"Radiohjälpen\" appeal.\n\nThe \"Andra Chansen\" (Second Chance) heat was held on 7 March at the Himmelstalundshallen in Norrköping. Eight songs competed for a second chance to reach the final, featuring the losing songs from the knockout rounds in the previous four heats.\n\nFor the first round eight songs battled to progress to the second round. The Scotts from semi-final 1 and Sarah Dawn Finer from semi-final 4 were the first songs to battle – the winner was Sarah Dawn Finer with \"Moving On\". Semi-final 2's Lili & Susie and semi-final 3's BWO were the next duo to battle each other – Lili & Susie edged ahead of BWO to progress to the next round. Amy Diamond and the Star Pilots battled against each other, with the Star Pilots coming out on top, while Rigo & The Topaz Sound feat. Red Fox competed against Caroline af Ugglas, with af Ugglas progressing.\n\nThe second round decided the two Second Chance qualifiers for the final: Lili & Susie battled against Sarah Dawn Finer, while the Star Pilots competed against Caroline af Ugglas. The final winners of Second Chance were Sarah Dawn Finer with \"Moving On\", and Caroline af Ugglas with \"Snälla, snälla\".\n\nIn total 939,222 votes were cast for the Second Chance round.\n\nThe international jury had the task of selecting a song from each heat which they think was the most suitable for the Eurovision Song Contest. The jury were only able to pick songs that had not passed to the final. If they pick a song which qualifies to the final through the Second Chance round, that song became ineligible for the jury's choice. The international jury were also given the right to vote during the final of the contest, becoming the 12th jury, alongside the 11 regional juries.\n\nThe first song to receive the international jury wildcard was Caroline af Ugglas, who passed to Second Chance from the Gothenburg heat on 7 February with \"Snälla, snälla\". Amy Diamond was the second qualifier, however, shortly after the show it was rumoured that the announcement of Diamond as the jury choice was incorrect, and that the true choice was Jennifer Brown, who had placed 7th in the televote. This rumour however was revealed to be false by SVT, with Diamond as the correct choice.\n\nThe Leksand wildcard selected was Sofia with \"Alla\". This song was the only jury wilcard selected that failed to qualify to Second Chance, coming 7th in the televote. The final wildcard, coming from the Malmö qualifier, was Sarah Dawn Finer with \"Moving On\", another Second Chance qualifier.\n\nAs Sarah Dawn Finer and Caroline af Ugglas had qualified from the Second Chance round to the final this made them ineligible to be chosen for the international jury qualifier. This left two songs left to compete for the 11th final place: either Amy Diamond, who had already been knocked out of Second Chance in the first round, or Sofia. The final choice by the jury was for Sofia with \"Alla\".\n\nThe following people were members of the international jury:\n\nThe final of Melodifestivalen 2009 was held at the Globen arena in Stockholm on 14 March 2009.\n\nThe run-up to the final began shortly after the Second Chance round had been completed, when the running order for the final was revealed – semi-final 2 qualifier Måns Zelmerlöw would open proceeding on the night, while semi-final 4 qualifier and wild card Malena Ernman would finish the performances for the evening.\n\nThe favourites to win the contest were Zelmerlöw and Ernman, with the international jury wild card Sofia predicted as most likely to finish last, according to bookmakers.\n\nMåns Zelmerlöw took the stage first on the night, repeating his performance from the semi-final of \"Hope & Glory\". Second Chance qualifier Caroline af Ugglas followed Zelmerlöw on stage with \"Snälla snälla\", repeating her emotional performance alone on stage. Agnes was next on stage, performing \"Love Love Love\", now with a new hairstyle, but no major changes were made to the performance since the semi-final. H.E.A.T followed with their rock song \"1000 Miles\", who were then followed by Emilia with \"You're My World\".\n\nTwo-time participant Alcazar were the sixth act to take the stage at Globen, performing disco/pop number \"Stay the Night\", who were followed by the second Second Chance qualifier Sarah Dawn Finer, performing \"Moving On\". Boyband E.M.D., now performing in white tuxedos, were eighth on stage with \"Baby Goodbye\". International jury selection Sofia followed on stage, singing the Greek ethno number \"Alla\". She was followed by 16-year-old Molly Sandén with \"Så vill stjärnorna\", and finally by Malena Ernman with \"La voix\".\n\nAt the final vote Malena Ernman was the winner: despite only coming 8th in the jury vote, she was able to win the televote and guarantee victory with \"La voix\". The runner-up was Caroline af Ugglas with \"Snälla snälla\", while E.M.D. came third with \"Baby Goodbye\". The winner of the jury vote was Måns Zelmerlöw with \"Hope & Glory\".\n\n1,748,970 votes were received during the final, with a total of 3,457,434.50kr being donated to SVT's \"Radiohjälpen\" appeal. 3,592,000 people watched the final on SVT, however over 10 million watched the show live on SVT's online video on demand service SVT Play.\n\nThe voting in the final was made up of both televoting/SMS voting and jury voting. 12 juries – 11 regional juries from around Sweden, along with the international jury – gave 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 points to their favourite songs. This was joined by televoting, with the total votes being converted into a set number of points – 12, 24, 48, 72, 96, 120 and 144 points were given to the most-popular songs of the total televote from around Sweden.\n\nThe International jury results were announced immediately after all the entries were performed, while the televoting was still taking place. These results were announced on stage by Eurovision Song Contest 2007 winner and International Jury member Marija Šerifović.\n\nMåns Zelmerlöw was the favourite with the juries, receiving a total of 96 points. Sarah Dawn Finer came second with the juries, gaining 75 points, while Alcazar came third with 67. However the televoting completely contradicted this, with the televoting favourite Malena Ernman coming only eighth in the jury vote, while runner-up Caroline af Ugglas came only 5th in the jury.\n\nThe Marcel Bezençon Awards honour the best competing songs in the final of Melodifestivalen. First awarded at the 2002 Eurovision Song Contest, they have been awarded at Melodifestivalen since 2005. The awards were founded by Christer Björkman (Sweden's representative in the 1992 Eurovision Song Contest and Melodifestivalen producer since 2002) and Richard Herrey (member of the Herreys, Eurovision Song Contest 1984 winner from Sweden), and are named after the creator of the Eurovision Song Contest, Marcel Bezençon. The awards are divided into 3 categories:\n\n\nThe 2009 Melodifestivalen awards were announced before the final of the contest:\n\n\nA large number of songs from Melodifestivalen were able to chart in the Swedish singles chart – Sverigetopplistan – with two songs managing to peak at #1.\n\nThe first song to reach #1 in Sweden was Shirley Clamp's \"Med hjärtat fyllt av ljus\". The song, which was knocked out of the first semi-final, was released shortly afterwards, entering the charts on 20 February at #25. The song rose in the charts, and reached #1 on 6 March, the day before the Second Chance round.\n\nThe second song to reach #1 from Melodifestvalen was E.M.D.'s \"Baby Goodbye\". The song, released after the fourth semi-final per Melodifestivalen rules, entered at #3, before rising to #1 on 13 March, the day before the final, entering the final as #1. The song stayed at #1 for two weeks.\n\nFour further songs peaked at #2 of the Sverigetopplistan, Alcazar's \"Stay the Night\", Caroline af Ugglas' \"Snälla snälla\", Måns Zelmerlöw's \"Hope & Glory\", and winner Malena Ernman with \"La voix\". H.E.A.T and Sarah Dawn Finer peaked at #3 with \"1000 Miles\" and \"Moving On\" respectively, while Agnes peaked at #4 with \"Love Love Love\" and Star Pilots and Lili & Susie peaked at #6 with \"Higher\" and \"Show Me Heaven\".\n\nFollow-up albums by many of the artists also did well in the Swedish albums chart: Måns Zelmerlöw's \"MZW\", Sarah Dawn Finer's \"Moving On\", Caroline af Ugglas' \"Så gör jag det igen\", and Malena Ernman's \"La Voix Du Nord\" all peaked at #1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36831697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36831697", "title": "Moscow International Automobile Salon", "text": "Moscow International Automobile Salon\n\nThe Moscow International Automobile Salon or MIAS () is the biennial auto show held at Crocus Expo in Moscow, Russia. The show is scheduled by the Organisation Internationale des Constructeurs d'Automobiles, which considers it a major international auto show. The organizers are the Association of Russian Carmakers NP and the Expo Centre. Numerous dealer conferences organized by car producers are forming the integral part of the program. In September 2010, it received the status of 'A' \"High Class Automobile Salon\".\n\nThe 2006 show was held from 30 August to 10 September.\n\nThe 2008 show was held from 26 August to 7 September.\n\nIntroductions:\n\nThe 2010 show was held from 25 August to 5 September.\n\nIntroductions:\n\nThe 2012 show was held from 29 August to 9 September.\n\nIntroductions:\n\nThe Best Automobile of the Moscow International Automobile Salon’2012 was for the first time held within the frames of MIAS’2012. The Bentley Continental GT Speed was awarded the \"Car of Dream\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53653847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53653847", "title": "Murder of Shana Grice", "text": "Murder of Shana Grice\n\nShana Grice was a British teenager who was murdered by an ex-boyfriend after he had stalked her. The murder led to criticism of Sussex Police for their failure to take Shana Grices' complaints about stalking seriously.\n\nShana had met Michael Lane in 2015 when they both worked at Brighton Fire Alarms. Lane was from Thornhill Road, Portslade. They formed a relationship and Lane had become obsessed with her. He refused to accept the breakup and said to a friend “She’ll pay for what she’s done.\"\nMichael Lane stalked her after she broke up with him and returned to her previous boyfriend, Ashley Cooke. Lane put a tracker device on her car which notified via his mobile phone every time the car moved.\n\nOn 8 February 2016, Grice complained to police about being stalked by Lane after receiving unwanted flowers and damage to her car.\n\nOn 24 March, Lane snatched her phone and grabbed her hair. He was arrested on suspicion of assault but later released and Grice was issued with a fixed penalty notice by the police for wasting their time by not disclosing she had been in a relationship with him.\n\nOn 9 July, Lane used a stolen key to let himself into her home and watch her while she was apparently sleeping. She was actually awake, had heard his footsteps and hid under the duvet. She heard a man breathing in her room. Shortly afterwards, the man left, and when Grice looked out her window she saw Lane walking away. He was arrested for theft, given a police caution and told to stay away from Shana.\n\nThe following day, she received around seven phone calls from a blocked number, including one with heavy breathing. She was told there were no further lines of inquiry and the case would be left on file.\n\nOn 12 July, she reported to police that she was being followed by Lane. Police treated the case as \"low risk\", but that the investigating officer would be made aware.\n\nOn 4 August, she saw Lane loitering outside her home. She confided in her friend Joann Pumphrey that she was afraid that police wouldn't believe her because of her previous fine for wasting police time. Although Joann was a witness to this, Shana didn't report the incident to the police.\n\nOn 25 August, Lane waited until Grice was alone at home, then let himself in, slit her throat and set fire to her bedroom. She was just 19 years old at the time of her murder and her killer was 27 years old. Her body was found by Ian Cooke, her boyfriends' father, in her home at Chrisdory Road, Portslade, East Sussex.\n\nMichael Lane was arrested the same day at his then workplace in Burgess Hill. He initially lied to police about his movements that day, before admitting that he had gone to Shana Grices' home. He claimed that he had found the front door open, then found Shanas' body in her bedroom. He claimed that he panicked, then left the scene without dialling 999, checking Shanas' vital signs or telling his family what he had found. He claimed that he only kept quiet about what he had seen because he was afraid of being accused of her murder.\n\nThe trial lasted two weeks in Lewes Crown Court. After being found guilty Lane was sentenced to life with a minimum term of 25 years.\n\nShana Grices' parents Sharon Grice and Richard Green said their daughter would still be alive if Sussex Police had acted on her complaints. The judge, Justice Green, also criticised police. During sentencing he said \"There was seemingly no appreciation on the part of those investigating that a young woman in a sexual relationship with a man could at one and the same time be vulnerable and at risk of serious harm. The police jumped to conclusions and Shana was stereotyped.\"\n\nSussex Police apologised to Shanas' parents and referred themselves to the Independent Police Complaints Commission, which has launched an inquiry.\n\nIn late April 2017, Sussex Police accepted six recommendations from the IPCC to improve the way the force dealt with stalking. The recommendations concern training, data systems and making use of relevant information. IPCC Associate Commissioner Tom Milsom said that Sussex Police had taken a positive response to the recommendations and he said that \"Stalking and harassment are serious offences and in certain situations, such as those involving Shana, can have tragic consequences.\" Detective Superintendent Jason Tingley of Sussex police said that additional training was already being provided and \"We have improved our understanding of what stalking and harassment is and what our response should be.\"\n\nSussex police also revealed that Michael Lane had been the subject of complaints from 13 other women. Most of the complaints related to the three years before Shana Grices' murder, except for one which dealt with the ten years before her murder.\n"}
{"id": "24087218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24087218", "title": "My Sister Eileen (play)", "text": "My Sister Eileen (play)\n\nMy Sister Eileen is an American comedy stage production, written by Joseph A. Fields and Jerome Chodorov, based on autobiographical short stories by Ruth McKenney. The stories were originally published in \"The New Yorker\" and then collected and published as the book \"My Sister Eileen\" (1938).\n\nThe plot focuses on Ruth and Eileen Sherwood, sisters from Ohio who relocate to New York City in search of fame and fortune. Witty Ruth aspires to be a published writer, while pretty Eileen dreams of success as an actress. Their financial circumstances force them to rent a dingy basement studio apartment in a Greenwich Village building owned by Mr. Appolpolous, one of many colorful characters who cross their path.\n\nThe Broadway production, produced by Max Gordon and directed by George S. Kaufman, opened 26 December 1940 at the Biltmore Theatre. It transferred three times during its run of 864 performances: to the Martin Beck Theatre, opening 4 August 1942; to the Ritz Theatre, opening 23 November 1942; and to The Broadway Theatre, opening 13 December 1942.\n\nThe original cast included Shirley Booth as Ruth Sherwood, Jo Ann Sayers as Eileen Sherwood, Morris Carnovsky as Mr. Appolpolous, and Richard Quine as Frank Lippencott, a drugstore soda jerk with an eye for Eileen. Peggy Knudsen replaced Sayers in June 1942 (when she left to be married), and Quine was replaced by Henry Jones, who in turn was replaced by Max Showalter.\n\nEileen McKenney, an executive assistant to Walt Disney and the inspiration for the play's title character, and her husband, novelist and screenwriter Nathanael West, were killed in an automobile accident in El Centro, California four days before the Broadway opening (they were driving to the Los Angeles Airport to board a plane for New York, to attend the play's premiere). Her sister Ruth consequently did not attend the premiere and never saw the play.\n\nFields and Chodorov adapted their play for the 1942 film that opened while the play was still running on Broadway, as well as the 1953 musical \"Wonderful Town\". It also served as the basis for the 1960 television sitcom of the same title.\n\n"}
{"id": "57178287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57178287", "title": "N. T. R. (film)", "text": "N. T. R. (film)\n\nN.T.R. Kathanayakudu is an upcoming Indian Telugu language, biographical drama film based on the real life of N. T. Rama Rao, produced by Nandamuri Balakrishna, Sai Korrapati Ranganatha, Vishnu Induri under NBK Films, Vaaraahi Chalana Chitram, and Vibri Media banners and directed by Krish. It is the first movie in the two part biographical movie series based on the life of former movie star and politician N. T. Rama Rao. The film stars Nandamuri Balakrishna in the role of N. T. Rama Rao, his father and Vidya Balan as Basavatarakam, N. T. Rama Rao's first wife, this film marking her debut in Telugu. and music is composed by M. M. Keeravani. The film has a sequel, that will showcase the political journey of N.T. Rama Rao.\n\n\nThe film began on 29 March 2018 at Ramakrishna Cine Studios, Hyderabad. Nandamuri Balakrishna dressed up as Duryodhana and started with his father's famous dialogue \"Yemantive Yemantive\" from the movie \"Daana Veera Soora Karna\" (1977). Vice President Venkaiah Naidu given clap and K. Raghavendra Rao directed the first shoot. Telangana Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav, Veteran actress Jamuna, Allu Aravind, Dr. Rajashekar, Jeevitha Rajashekar, Boyapati Srinu several industry stalwarts have graced the occasion. The film was planned to release to Dussera. Initially Teja was announced as director of movie but he walks out of the project due to creative differences with Balakrishna.\n"}
{"id": "15056490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15056490", "title": "On the Restoration of Independence of the Republic of Latvia", "text": "On the Restoration of Independence of the Republic of Latvia\n\nThe Declaration \"On the Restoration of Independence of the Republic of Latvia\" () was adopted on 4 May 1990, by the Supreme Soviet of the Latvian SSR. The Declaration stated that, although Latvia had \"de facto\" lost its independence in 1940, when it was annexed by the Soviet Union, the country had \"de jure\" remained a sovereign country as the annexation had been unconstitutional and against the will of the people of Latvia. Therefore it resolved that the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact and the Soviet occupation of Latvia in 1940 were illegal, and annulled the declaration on the accession of Latvia to the Soviet Union of 21 July 1940, re-instituted the Constitution of Latvia of 1922, which was thereupon partly suspended, and set a period of transition to \"de facto\" independence, which would end upon the first session of Saeima. It also ruled that during the transitional period the Constitution of the Latvian SSR and other laws would remain applicable as long as they did not contradict articles 1, 2, 3 and 6 of the Constitution of Latvia, which were reinforced by the declaration. It was provided that a committee to elaborate a new edition of the Constitution of Latvia should be created. Social, economic, cultural and political rights were granted to citizens and residents of Latvia in accordance with international human rights. The declaration also stated that Latvia would form its relationship with the Soviet Union on the basis of the Latvian–Soviet Peace Treaty of 1920, in which the Soviet Union had recognized the independence of Latvia as inviolable \"for all future time\". The 4th of May is a national holiday in Latvia.\n\nIn its beginning the Declaration establishes several historical facts and on the basis of these facts concludes that the Republic of Latvia \"de jure\" is a sovereign country. It observes that the Republic of Latvia proclaimed independence on 18 November 1918, and was internationally recognized in 1920, and that Latvia was admitted to membership in the League of Nations in 1921. The first country to recognize the independence of Latvia \"de jure\" was Soviet Russia on 11 August 1920, when the Soviet-Latvian Peace treaty was signed (it is generally considered that the independence of Latvia \"de jure\" was internationally recognized on 26 January 1921, when it was recognized by the Allies of World War I). The declaration notes that in April 1920 the Latvian nation followed the principle of self-determination by electing a Constitutional Assembly of Latvia, which adopted the Constitution of Latvia on 15 February 1922, in general, equal and direct elections, based on proportional representation.\n\nOn 23 August 1939, the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany signed the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, which included a secret protocol dividing Eastern Europe into spheres of influence. Latvia was apportioned to the Soviet sphere and on 5 October 1939, signed a mutual assistance pact. On 16 June 1940, the Soviet Union issued an ultimatum to Latvia accusing it of not carrying out the treaty, namely of forming a military alliance against the USSR, and requested a new government to be formed and to guarantee Soviet military free entrance in Latvia. The Latvian government decided to give in to the ultimatum and on 17 June 1940, Soviet forces entered Latvia. The Declaration states that the Soviet ultimatum and military aggression on 17 June 1940, should be viewed as an international crime, which led to the occupation of Latvia and loss of its sovereignty and points out that the new government was formed as dictated by the Soviet Union and by international law should not be viewed as executive of Latvia as it represented Soviet, not Latvian, interests.\n\nOn 14–15 July 1940 a parliament called the \"People's Saeima of Latvia\" was elected, which on 21 July 1940, declared accession to the Soviet Union. The declaration states that the election of the People's Saeima took place on the basis of unconstitutional and illegally adopted election law in a state of political terror and notes that out of 17 lists submitted for the election only one was allowed to participate in the election, which had not stated prior to the election that Soviet power should be established in Latvia and it should join the Soviet Union and that results of the election were falsified. The declaration observes that the People's Saeima was formed by misleading the people and therefore did not express the sovereign will of people of Latvia. It also notes that the People's Saeima had no right to change the political system in Latvia and liquidate its sovereignty as only the people have such right and the issue was never submitted to a national referendum. Therefore the Declaration rules that, in accordance with international law, the annexation of Latvia to the Soviet Union was not valid and the Republic of Latvia is still \"de jure\" subject to international law as recognized by more than 50 countries.\n\nAfter concluding that the Republic of Latvia \"de jure\" is a sovereign country the Declaration makes note of previously adopted documents and explains that the Supreme Soviet is acting according to the will of inhabitants of Latvia. First it notes two previous declarations of the Supreme Soviet — \"On sovereignty of state of Latvia\" of 28 July 1989, which declared that the Latvian SSR will act as a sovereign state and that laws adopted by the Soviet Union will come in force in the territory of Latvian SSR only if the Supreme Soviet has ratified them and \"In question of independence of Latvia\" of 15 February 1990, in which the Supreme Soviet condemns declaration \"On accession of Latvia to Soviet Union\" of 21 July 1940, however none of these explicitly called for secession from the Soviet Union. Secondly it notes Appeal of All-Latvian congress of people deputies of 21 April 1990, which called for restoration of independence. Then it is stated that the Supreme Soviet is acting in accordance with the will of inhabitants of Latvia, which had been clearly expressed by electing as a majority those deputies, who had stated that they will restore independence of the Republic of Latvia in their reelection programme.\n\nAfter establishing that the Republic of Latvia \"de jure\" is a sovereign country and that by the will of its people it should be independent, the Supreme Soviet ruled:\n1. To recognize the priority of international laws over national laws. To hold to be illegitimate the treaty between the USSR and Germany of 23 August 1939, and the consequent liquidation of independence of Latvia resulting from Soviet military aggression on 17 June 1940.\n2. To proclaim the declaration \"On accession of Latvia to Soviet Union\" of 21 July 1940, to be void from the moment of adoption.\n3. To re-establish the authority of the Constitution of Latvia. The official name of the state of Latvia is the Republic of Latvia, in short Latvia.\n4. To suspend the Constitution of Latvia until a new edition is adopted, except for the articles, which in accordance with the 77 article of the Constitution can only be amended if submitted to a national referendum:\n\n1. \"Latvia is an independent democratic republic.\"2. \"The sovereign power of the State of Latvia is vested in the people of Latvia.\"3. \"The territory of the State of Latvia, within the borders established by international agreements, consists of Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale.\"6. \"The Saeima shall be elected in general, equal and direct elections, and by secret ballot based on proportional representation.\"\n\nArticle 6 shall be applied when the governmental institutions of independent Latvia have been restored, which grant free elections.\n5. To set a period of transition to de facto independence until the first session of the new Saeima. During the transitional period the highest power of the state shall be the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia.\n6. During the transitional period the Constitution of the Latvian SSR and other laws of the Latvian SSR in force at the time when the declaration was made may be applicable as long as they do not contradict articles 1, 2, 3 and 6 of the Constitution of Latvia. Disputes over the applicability of laws shall be resolved by the Constitutional Court. During the transitional period laws shall be made or amended only by the Supreme Council.\n7. To constitute a committee, which will elaborate a new edition of the Constitution of Latvia, suitable to the current political, economic and social state of Latvia.\n8. In accordance with international human rights, to grant social, economic and cultural rights, as well as political freedoms, to the citizens of Latvia and other countries, who reside in the territory of Latvia. This shall fully apply to those citizens of the Soviet Union who chose to reside in Latvia without its citizenship.\n9. To build Latvian-Soviet relationships upon the Latvian-Soviet peace treaty of 11 August 1920, in which the Soviet Union recognizes eternal independence for Latvia and which is still in force. To constitute a committee for negotiations with USSR.\n\nThe Supreme Soviet was elected on 18 March 1990; it was the first election in Soviet Latvia in which multiple parties were allowed to participate. 201 deputies were elected. The declaration was adopted on 4 May 1990, in an open vote, a majority of two thirds — 132 votes — was required, 138 deputies voted for adoption of the declaration, 1 abstained, while others did not participate in the vote and therefore there were no votes against the declaration.\n\nOn 4 May 1990, after the declaration was adopted, the Communist Party of Latvia resolved that it was unconstitutional, contained notable contradictions and historical inaccuracies, and noted that such issues should be decided by referendum. The Communist Party deemed that the declaration might trigger the President of the Soviet Union to take countermeasures, therefore the party should launch a propaganda campaign against the declaration and ask the President of the Soviet Union to annul the declaration of the Supreme Soviet. On 14 May 1990, the President of the Soviet Union Mikhail Gorbachev issued a decree stating that the declaration violated the Constitution of the Soviet Union and the Constitution of the Latvian SSR and thus stood void from the moment of adoption. \n\nThe Supreme Council answered that the Constitution of the Soviet Union did not grant the president the right to annul acts adopted by Supreme Soviets of Soviet republics. Furthermore the Supreme Council announced that the Supreme Soviet, as the legal successor of the People's Saeima, had the right to annul its decisions which contradicted the Constitution of Latvia which was in force at the time these decisions were made and as the Constitution of the Soviet Union ruled that the Soviet Union was founded upon principles of self-determination, but Latvia was forcibly annexed, reference to it had no juridical basis regarding the Latvian SSR. \n\nIt also noted that the law of the Soviet Union regarding secession from the Soviet Union to which the decree also referred was not in force in the territory of the Latvian SSR as the Supreme Soviet had not ratified it and that the law contradicted the Constitution of the Soviet Union and the Constitution of Latvian SSR, which provided that Soviet republics can freely secede from the Soviet Union. It was stated that the call for a referendum on secession from the Soviet Union to take place has neither a legal or a political basis, because Latvia had been annexed by the Soviet Union without holding a referendum, which was required by the Constitution of Latvia and Latvia was not seceding from the Soviet Union, but restoring its independence. \n\nIt was noted that the Constitution of the Latvian SSR did not call for a referendum as it had been stated in the decree, but recommended two alternatives – either a referendum or a public debate which had \"de facto\" taken place as it had been discussed in the press and several public opinion polls had taken place showing that a majority of the public supported independence. Similarly in the All-Latvian congress of people deputies of 21 April 1990, 8003 had voted for restoration of independence and the declaration had been adopted by a vote of two thirds of members of the Supreme Soviet which was required for constitutional amendments. Furthermore, the Supreme Council referred to the result of elections of Supreme Soviet as a clear indicator of public opinion that supporters of independence had won the election. The Supreme Council stated that by 28 May 1990, it had received letters and telegrams from 646,726 residents of the Republic supporting the declaration and only 8,993 people had expressed opposition. Given these provisions, the Supreme Council stated that the Declaration was legitimate and in force.\n\nOn 21 August 1991, during the Soviet coup d'état attempt, the Supreme Council adopted a Constitutional law, \"On the statehood of the Republic of Latvia\", repealing Article 5 of the Declaration, thus ending the transitional period and restoring \"de facto\" independence. However, some elements defining the transitional period remained in force until the first session of the 5th Saeima on 6 July 1993 – The Supreme Council remained the highest power of the state and the constitution was suspended. On 31 July 1990, the Supreme Council formed a work group of 22 deputies, which had to elaborate a new edition of the Constitution before 1 January 1990, though a new edition was never drafted and the Constitution was restored unamended. The Constitutional Court, which was intended to resolve Constitutional disputes during the transitional period, was only founded in 1996. To comply with international human rights as indicated in Article 8, the Supreme Council adopted a declaration of human rights immediately after the Declaration of independence.\n\nOn September 6, 1991, after the failed coup attempt, the Soviet Union recognized Latvia's independence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26283899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26283899", "title": "Ontario Students Against Impaired Driving", "text": "Ontario Students Against Impaired Driving\n\nOSAID (Ontario Students Against Impaired Driving) is an anti-impaired driving initiative which is found across the province of Ontario, Canada, aimed primarily at youth involvement in combating impaired driving. It was founded in 1987 and encourages the student population to practice responsible choices and to never to drive while impaired. OSAID chapter members regularly hold awareness raising activities, such as mocktail sales or events aimed at raising awareness about the dangers of driving while impaired.\n\nOSAID describes itself as: \"... a provincial youth driven organization peer education, health promotion and injury prevention program that strives to promote smart healthy choices through education and public awareness to prevent tragedies caused by impaired and distracted driving.\"\n\nOSAID's mission statement, as described in an introductory meeting: \"OSAID is about teens helping teens to consider safe alternatives and new perspectives to the perceived norms about Alcohol, Illicit Drugs, and Dangerous Driving.\"\n\nOSAID by the numbers:\n\nThe organization was started in 1988 as a collaboration between students, teachers, and police to raise awareness to youth about the dangers of driving while impaired. In 1989 the logo was designed and the name \"OSAID\" was chosen. A newsletter was created and distributed among about 200 students involved with the project.\n\nThe organization began holding workshops and launching various media campaigns to get its message out. Scholarships have been awarded to youth shown to be exemplary in raising awareness of driving while under the influence, and continue today.\n\nOSAID's media campaigns have consisted of short films, public service announcements, newsletters, and a DVD. They have received funding by a varying number of organizations, including The Ministry of Transportation, The Ministry of Community Safety and Correctional Services, The Ministry of Health Promotion and Sport, insurance companies such as OTIP/RAEO (Ontario Teachers' Insurance Plan) and the Ontario Mutual Insurance Association, and individual sponsors to their programme.\n\nIn 1990 a short film entitled \"Life of the Party\" was produced by OSAID and nominated for best short education film at Canada's Short Film Festival, and in 1996 was selected as one of the top ten videos as a resource for educators by the Driver Education Advisory Committee. Public service announcements aired on television in 1991 for six months. In 1993 The Ministry of Transportation collaborated in the poster \"Santa Rides with Deers, Not Beers\". OSAID teamed with the Attorney General D/D Countermeasures Office to offer \"Arrive Alive\" video dances in Ontario high schools.\n\nThe 2009 iDrive Road Stories DVD, a 23-minute video created to educate youth about safe, sober driving, was produced with input from the organization.\n\nOSAID newsletters, such as \"OSAID Speaks\" (began in 2010) have been distributed as an online resource through the OSAID website.\n\n2012's \"Meet the Challenge\" project, produced in partnership with the Ministry of Health Promotion and Sport, took place across the province.\n\nOSAID developed and released online cards (\"Call Me\" cards) to serve as a promise that teens would call a sober driver, if needed, rather than try to drive themselves, with an accompanying contract.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33215847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33215847", "title": "Over the Air", "text": "Over the Air\n\nOver the Air was an annual mobile technology-focused overnight hack day event held in London from 2008 to 2016. The two-day event would include practical and educational talks and a hacking competition. Sponsors of the event have included the BBC, Bluevia, Nokia, PayPal, and Vodafone. Some of the ideas developed at Over the Air have been turned into commercial services.\n\nOver the Air developed from previous hack day events in 2007 and 2008.\n\nFrom 2008 to 2010, the event was held at Imperial College in South Kensington. The 2011 version of Over the Air was part of the 2011 London Mobile Week. From 2011 to 2013, it was held at Bletchley Park. There was no Over the Air event in 2014.\n\nIn 2015, the event was held at St John the Baptist, Hoxton; on 25 and 26 September. It featured one of the first workshop sessions for the Micro Bit; along with the usual hackathon and lightning talks. The 8th (and final) event was also St. John's, on 25 and 26 November 2016. \n"}
{"id": "9338414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9338414", "title": "Politian (play)", "text": "Politian (play)\n\nPolitian (1835) is the only play known to have been written by Edgar Allan Poe, composed in 1835, but never completed.\n\nThe play is a fictionalized version of a true event in Kentucky: the murder of Solomon P. Sharp by Jereboam O. Beauchamp in 1825. The so-called \"Kentucky Tragedy\" became a national headline and attracted several fictional representations. Poe, however, chose to set his version in 16th-century Rome. Poe wrote the play during his time with the \"Southern Literary Messenger\" and during some personal crises. The first installment of \"Politian\" was published in that journal in December 1835 as \"Scenes from an Unpublished Drama\". A second installment was issued in January 1836, but the play was never completed.\n\n\"Politian\" did not receive good reviews. Its failure prompted Poe to stop writing longer works and instead focus on short stories. \"Politian\" remains unfinished and is the only play written by Poe.\n\n\nThe play takes place in 16th-century Rome. Castiglione, the son of a duke, becomes engaged to his cousin Alessandra, inciting the jealousy of his father's ward, the orphan Lalage. Lalage meets Politian, the Earl of Leicester, and, after some flirtation, convinces him to take revenge on Castiglione. In the drama, Politian recites the poem \"The Coliseum\", which Poe had previously published in 1833.\n\n\"Politian\" was written in blank verse and styled after Jacobean-era tragedies. Like many of Poe's tales, \"Politian\" questions the finality of death or what happens when life is over. Politian proposes a suicide pact to an orphan named Lalage so that they can meet in the afterlife.\n\nThe title character is named after a 15th-century Italian poet, scholar and teacher named Poliziano.\n\nPoe was dramatizing a murder which occurred on November 7, 1825, in Kentucky. Anna Cooke of Frankfort, Kentucky gave birth to the child of the state solicitor general Solomon P. Sharp but married Jereboam O. Beauchamp in 1824. Cooke asked Beauchamp to murder Sharp as part of the agreement for marriage. He kept his promise, stabbing Sharp to death on November 5, 1825. He pleaded not guilty during his murder trial but was sentenced to be executed. Cooke attempted suicide by overdosing on laudanum on the eve of Beauchamp's execution by hanging on July 7, 1826. The story was widely reported in the newspapers. Poe's story also utilized other real-life historical figures; the Earl of Leicester stands in as Beauchamp and the character Baldassare Castiglione represents Sharp.\n\nThe true event, labeled \"The Kentucky Tragedy\", was fictionalized in many other works, including \"Conrad and Eudora\" (1834) by Thomas Holley Chivers, \"Beauchampe\" (1842) by William Gilmore Simms, and \"World Enough and Time\" (1950) by Robert Penn Warren. Poe would later fictionalize another murder story that became a national headline in his short story \"The Mystery of Marie Rogêt\".\n\nPoe met John P. Kennedy, an author himself, very early in his writing career. Kennedy admired Poe's writing and encouraged him and promoted his work to publishers. In 1835 Kennedy wrote to the owner of the \"Southern Literary Messenger\" in Richmond, Virginia: \"He is at work upon a tragedy\", and he suggested that Poe be allowed to contribute something to the magazine. The publisher, Thomas Willis White, agreed, and Poe's first contribution to the \"Messenger\" was \"Berenice\" in April. Poe was then hired as a staff writer and critic beginning in August. Between March and November of that year, Poe contributed six new tales as well as the tragedy that Kennedy mentioned, \"Politian\".\n\nAs \"Politian\" and other works were being prepared for print, Poe had difficulty in wooing his future wife Virginia Clemm. Emotionally distressed, he turned to drinking and White fired him in late September 1835. White wrote to his friend Lucian Minor, an advocate of temperance: \"[Poe] is unfortunately rather dissipated... He is in addition the victim of melancholy. I should not be at all astonished to hear that he has been guilty of suicide\". White's exaggeration may have started the rumor amongst literary figures that Poe was not sane. After his dismissal, Poe went to Baltimore, Maryland with the Clemm family.\n\nWhite showed sincere concern for Poe's well-being and rehired him in October when Poe's personal crisis had passed. White wrote to Poe, \"I should think there was hope of you... If you should come to Richmond again, and again should be an assistant in my office, it must be especially understood by us that all engagements on my part would be dissolved, the moment you get drunk.\" Poe returned to work in October; his dismissal had caused the cancellation of the October issue of the \"Southern Literary Messenger\" and the November issue was delayed to December. It was in this delayed issue that the first installment of \"Politian\" was published under the title \"Scenes from an Unpublished Drama\". Another installment was published in January 1836, though it was never fully completed, possibly because he considered the play unsuccessful or because Kennedy insisted Poe focus on \"drudging upon whatever may make money\". The entirety of the unfinished work was included in Poe's collection \"The Raven and Other Poems\" in 1845.\n\nPlans were made in 1923 to stage a French translation of \"Politian\" by the Grand Guignol players; though an article about the project was published in the \"New York Times\", the project was never completed. The first performance of Poe's original text of \"Politian\" was given well after its composition, on January 19, 1933, by the Virginia Players of the University of Virginia, under the direction of Harry Rogers Pratt; the production was co-sponsored by the Raven Society, a group dedicated to keeping Poe's memory alive at the institution he briefly attended.\n\n\"Politian\" did not get many good reviews. Beverley Tucker wrote for the \"Washington Telegraph\" that he was disappointed after Poe \"had taught us to expect much, for his prose is often very high wrought poetry\". One critic for the \"Lynchburg Virginian\" wrote: \nPoe biographer Jeffrey Meyers faults Poe for not knowing enough about Renaissance Italy and for presenting a wooden hero in a melodramatic plot in an archaic style which \"did not do justice to this tragic story\". Despite the play being a tragedy, Elizabeth Barrett Browning wrote that \"\"Politian\" will make you laugh\".\n\nAfter reading \"Politian\", Kennedy recommended Poe return to writing poetry and short stories. Poe took the advice and went on to focus on shorter works after the failure of both \"Politian\" and his only novel \"The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket\", which also led to his abandonment of \"The Journal of Julius Rodman\". He chose to adapt to the literary marketplace, which then included a bustling newspaper and magazine industry in the 1830s. As Poe described years later, he joined in the effort of \"Magazine literature—to the curt, the terse, the well-timed, and the readily diffused, in preference to the old forms of the verbose and ponderous & the inaccessible\".\n\nIn 1845, Poe accused Henry Wadsworth Longfellow in print for stealing a quote from \"Politian\" for his own play \"The Spanish Student\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53660757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53660757", "title": "REDvolution Show", "text": "REDvolution Show\n\nREDVolution Shows are the music stage shows performed by Ni Ni Khin Zaw.\n\nThe first REDvolution Show was held in People's Square and Park on 1 April 2017.This is the very first one lady show in her career life of 9 years. She presented with Gita Kabyar Orchestra, Oxygen Music Band and Secret Pieces (Dance Group). She also sang some duet songs with other famous singers.\n\nThere are three major parts in the show.\n\nWater Party Yay Party\n\nThe second show for REDVolution show is \"Retro REDVolution show\" which was performed with retro theme.It was held in Yangon on 7th and 8th April 2018 for two days.This is her 2nd one lady show after REDvolution Show, presented in April 2017.This show was held finely for her 10th years Anniversary of her career life. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22788341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22788341", "title": "Revolutionary generation", "text": "Revolutionary generation\n\nA revolutionary generation is a generation of people for whom a revolution was a major event or influence in their lives. Such revolutions are usually associated with particular nations.\n\nThe first political generation of leaders in the People's Republic of China are part of the revolutionary generation in China, such as Mao Zedong, Zhu De and Zhou Enlai,\n\nThe revolutionaries of 1959 in Cuba were known as the \"Generation of the Centenary\" after the 100 year anniversary of the birth of José Martí in 1853.\n\nThe \"Université\" state education system established by Napoleon created a post-revolutionary generation in France.\n\nThe 1840s were a decisive decade which culminated in the events of 1848 which defined a generation of Germans.\n\nThe Second Aliyah generation was arguably the most important and influential aliyah. It took place between 1904 and 1914, during which approximately 40,000 Jews immigrated into Ottoman Palestine, mostly from Russia and Poland, some from Yemen. They were the generation that created the social, political and cultural foundations of the State of Israel.\n\nIn Romania, people who were born in 1989 are called the Revolution Generation, in reference to the Romanian Revolution of 1989 that ended the brutal Communist regime of Nicolae Ceaușescu and brought democracy and rule of law to Romania.\n\nEvarts Boutell Greene dated the generation of the American revolution as being from 1763 to 1790.\n\nThe generation that came of age during or immediately after World War II and subsequent rise of communism. It is a generation marked by greater social mobility in comparison to previous period of Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which permitted the large section of population to obtain education. It was also marked by rapid urbanization and industrialization of the country, with a big population shift from rural to urban areas.\n"}
{"id": "10436084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10436084", "title": "Ritual slaughter", "text": "Ritual slaughter\n\nRitual slaughter is the practice of slaughtering livestock for meat in the context of a ritual. Ritual slaughter involves a prescribed method of slaughtering an animal for food production purposes. This differs from animal sacrifices that involve slaughtering animals, often in the context of rituals, for purposes other than mere food production.\n\nRitual slaughter as a mandatory method of slaughter for food production is practiced by Muslim and Jewish communities totaling nearly 25% of the world population. Both communities have similar religious philosophies in this regard. Temple Grandin has researched Ritual Slaughter practices and says that abattoirs which use recommended methods cause livestock little pain; she calls the UK debate over Halal slaughterhouses misguided, and suggests that inhumane treatment of animals happens in poorly run slaughterhouses regardless of their halal status.\n\nThe Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC), which advises British government on how to avoid cruelty to livestock, on the other hand, says the way Jewish Kosher and Muslim Halal meat is produced causes severe suffering to animals. Ritual slaughter is in many EU countries the only exception from the standard requirement, guarded by criminal law, to render animal unconscious before slaughter (before any cutting). While the Jews accept absolutely no stunning (rendering unconscious prior to cutting), many Muslims have accepted it as long as it can be shown that the animal could be returned to normal living consciousness (so that stunning does not kill an animal but is intended to render following procedure painless).\n\nWalter Burkert in \"Homo Necans\" discusses animal sacrifice as arising from the anthropological transition to hunting. With the domestication of livestock, the hunt was gradually replaced by the slaughter of livestock, and hunting rituals were consequently transformed to the context of slaughter.\n\nIn antiquity, ritual slaughter and animal sacrifice was one and the same. Thus, as argued by Detienne et al. (1989), for the Greeks, consumption of meat not slaughtered ritually was unthinkable, so that beyond being a tribute to the gods, Greek animal sacrifice marked a cultural boundary, separating \"Hellenes\" from \"barbarians\". Greek animal sacrifice was christianized into slaughter ceremonies involving Greek Orthodox Christian ritual, known as \"kourbania\".\n\nAncient Egyptian slaughter rituals are frequently depicted in tombs and temples from the Old Kingdom onward. The standard iconography of the ritual involves a bull lying fettered on the ground with the butcher standing over it cutting its foreleg. The scene is attended by a woman and two priests.\n\nJewish and Islamic dietary laws require similar procedures for slaughtering animals. Ritual slaughter with a sharp knife is classified in the U.S. as 'humane' under the Humane Slaughter Act and practiced with no restrictions; in Europe, some countries have outlawed the practice as inhumane (see below).\n\nAccording to Jewish and Muslim law, \"slaughter is carried out with a single cut to the throat, rather than the more widespread method of stunning with a bolt into the head before slaughter.\" The animal must be alive when its throat is cut and die from loss of blood. Any kind of prestunning for livestock to be slaughtered according to the Jewish Kosher method has not yet been accepted.\n\n\"Shechita\" (Hebrew: ) is the Jewish ritual slaughter for poultry and cattle for food according to Halakha. Talmud – Tractate \"Hulin\" Shulkhan Arukh \"Yore De'ah\". The method of slaughter of animals for food is the same as was used for Temple sacrifices, but since the destruction of the Jewish Temple in Jerusalem, sacrifices are prohibited. The Jewish Bible explains that animals not sacrificed must be slaughtered by the same method, and today \"Shechita\", kosher slaughtering does not include any religious ceremony, although the slaughtering method may not be deviated from, if the meat is to be consumed by Jews.\n\nThe act is performed by drawing a very sharp knife across the animal's throat making a single incision incising the trachea and esophagus. The carotid arteries are also cut, allowing the blood to drain out. The knife must also be perfectly smooth, and free of any nicks.\n\nThe animal must be killed by a \"shochet\" - religious slaughterer also known in Hebrew as \"shochet ubodek\" (slaughterer and inspector). An inspection is mandatory and the animal is rejected for Jewish consumption if certain imperfections are discovered. A \"shochet\" must be a Jew in good standing in the community. The training period for a shochet varies, depending on the skill of the trainee. Qualifying as a slaughterer of only chickens can be achieved with a shorter period of study.\n\n\"Ḏabīḥah\" () is the method prescribed in Islam for slaughtering all halal animals (goats, sheep, cattle, chickens), only excluding fish and most sea-life, according to Islamic law. This means that unlawful animals (pig, dog, lion) may not be slaughtered (dabihah). This method of slaughtering halal animals needs several conditions to be fulfilled:\n\nReligious slaughter brings extra challenges for large, high-volume slaughterhouses where focus is on fast, cost-effective throughput. There has been reports that 3.2 cuts are in practice required for Jewish and 5.2 for Halal slaughter. It was also reported that for 1 in 10 animals arteries of an animal are not correctly severed resulting in prolonged death.\n\nA number of countries in Europe (as well as Australia) have issued restrictions or outright bans on ritual slaughter. As of 2018, Slovenia is the only European country which has prohibited ritual slaughter altogether. A number of other countries, most notably in Scandinavia, has introduced legal requirements for animals to be stunned either before or just after having their throats cut during ritual slaughter. The question whether animals should be stunned or not remains a hotly contested issue, where animal welfare concerns regularly clash with religious concerns.\n\nBans on ritual slaughter have been proposed or enacted in a number of European countries, from the 1840s onward. Most of them have been removed. Although ostensibly introduced for reasons of animal welfare, the consistent involvement of antisemites in the campaigns from the outset in the 1840s has, among other things led Pascal Krauthammer in a doctoral dissertation to conclude that the aim of the Swiss anti-Semitic campaign, that included elements from blood libel accusations in neighbouring countries, was to reimpose restrictions on Jews at a time when they were just beginning to achieve enfranchisement.\n\nIn 2014 Denmark ruled that Islamic and Jewish slaughter practices are inhumane, requiring that all animals be stunned before being killed for food, sparking a debate on religious freedom and the relative harms of different methods.\n\n\"Bullfighting\" and Running of the Bulls is still widely practiced in Spain, Portugal and many Spanish influenced areas of the Northern Mediterranean and Latin America. It is a modern adaptation of ancient ritual slaughter supposedly imported by Roman soldiers who worshiped Mithras.\n\n\"Bali\" (pronounced Bal-ee) or Bali Sacrifice (sometimes known as \"Jhatka Bali\") is the ritual killing of an animal in Hinduism. Jhatka is the prescribed method for Hindu ritual sacrifice, however other methods such as strangulation and the use of a wooden spile (\"sphya\") driven into the heart is used. The reason for this is that priests saw the animal making a noise as a bad omen. Jhatka requires the instant killing of the animal in a single decapitating blow with an axe or sword. Those Hindus who do eat meat prescribe jhatka.\n\nRitual jhatka sacrifice of goats is also practiced by some sections of Sikhs such as Hazuri Sikhs and Nihangs on certain events of religious significance.\n\nIt is to be noted that certain sections of Sikh society are opposed to this ritual and there exists a debate about its religious roots within Sikh society.\n\nRitual slaughter is practiced in various African traditional religions. Zulu slaughter rituals have led to controversy in South Africa.\n\nMonica Hunter in her 1936 study of the Mpondo people of the Transkei described the ritual:\nThe bellowing of the animal is supposed to represent communication with the ancestors. (David Welsh 2007)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4158153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4158153", "title": "Round-tripping (finance)", "text": "Round-tripping (finance)\n\nRound-tripping, also known as round-trip transactions or \"Lazy Susans\", is defined by \"The Wall Street Journal\" as a form of barter that involves a company selling \"an unused asset to another company, while at the same time agreeing to buy back the same or similar assets at about the same price.\" Swapping assets on a round-trip produces no net economic substance, but may be fraudulently reported as a series of productive sales and beneficial purchases on the books of the companies involved, violating the substance over form accounting principle. The companies appear to be growing and very \"busy\", but the round-tripping \"business\" does not generate profits. Growth is an attractive factor to speculative investors, even if profits are lacking; such investment benefits companies and motivates them to undertake the illusory growth of round-tripping.\n\nRound trips are characteristic of the New Economy companies. They played a crucial part in temporarily inflating the market capitalization of energy traders such as Enron, CMS Energy, Reliant Energy, and Dynegy. \n\nIn international scenarios, round tripping is used for tax evasion and money laundering as well.\n\nOther companies making unconventional round-tripping deals include AOL with Sun Microsystems and Global Crossing with Qwest Communications. It is alleged that when some telecommunications companies swapped capacity, they booked the value of the incoming capacity as revenue and the value of the outgoing capacity as an investment. These transactions had the effect of inflating profits. The SEC ruled that booking revenues from swaps in telecommunications capacity was improper.\n\nMany such companies have used round-tripping to distort the market by establishing false revenue benchmarks, aiming to meet or beat the numbers put out by Wall Street stock analysts. As a result of abusive round trips, barter between publicly held companies has become discredited among professional investors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43446323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43446323", "title": "St. Katherine Greek Orthodox Church (Burlington, North Carolina)", "text": "St. Katherine Greek Orthodox Church (Burlington, North Carolina)\n\nSt. Katherine Greek Orthodox Church is an Eastern Orthodox church in Burlington, North Carolina. The church houses a Greek Language School, the Philoptohos Society, and hosts Burlington's annual Greek Festival.\n\nSt. Katherine's opening Divine Liturgy service was held on November 28, 1971 led by Archbishop Iakovos of America. Local dignitaries were also in attendance, including Gov. Robert W. Scott. The church expanded to include a fellowship hall in 1991. On April 28, 2007 St. Katherine's was officially consecrated by the Archdiocese, raising its status from a mission church to a regular parish.\n"}
{"id": "8801086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8801086", "title": "Tactical event", "text": "Tactical event\n\nA tactical event (Also known as a \"Private Battle\" in the United Kingdom and elsewhere) is a type of historical reenactment, not usually open to the public, which is fought like a real battle with each side devising strategies and tactics to defeat their opponent(s). Tactical events have no script, a basic set of agreed-upon rules (physical boundaries, time limit, victory conditions, etc.), and onsite judges or referees, and so could be considered a form of live action role-playing game. Tactical battles might also be considered a form of experimental archaeology.\n\n"}
{"id": "23687209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23687209", "title": "The African Executive", "text": "The African Executive\n\nThe African Executive is a weekly opinion and business magazine published by the Inter Region Economic Network (IREN), located in Nairobi, Kenya. The magazine attracts international opinion writers to comment on Africa's socio-political and economic development.\n\nThe magazine was established in 2005. The magazine traces its roots to James Shikwati's weekly opinion pieces that were circulated to subscribed list of members in 2001 - 2002. The weekly circulation of this opinion pieces was changed to an IREN Kenya Newsletter (2002 - 2005) which later transformed into \"The African Executive\" Magazine that accommodates wider opinion and reviews on issues about Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "15179396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15179396", "title": "The Ballad of Casey Jones", "text": "The Ballad of Casey Jones\n\n\"The Ballad of Casey Jones\" is a traditional song about railroad engineer Casey Jones and his death at the controls of the train he was driving. It tells of how Jones and his fireman Sim Webb raced their locomotive to make up for lost time, but discovered another train ahead of them on the line, and how Jones remained on board to try to stop the train as Webb jumped to safety. It is song number 3247 in the Roud Folk Song Index.\n\nThe song helped preserve the memory of Jones' feat down through the years in its 40 plus versions and enhanced Casey’s legendary status to the extent that he has even become something of a mythological figure like Pecos Bill or Paul Bunyan to the uninformed. Books and pulp magazines about the railroad and its heroes helped to perpetuate his memory as well.\n\nSoon after Casey’s death, the song was first sung by engine wiper and friend of Casey’s named Wallace Saunders to the tune of a popular song of the time known as \"Jimmie Jones.\" He was known to sing and whistle as he went about his work cleaning the steam engines. In the words of Casey’s wife: \"Wallace's admiration of Casey was little short of idolatry. He used to brag mightily about Mr. Jones even when Casey was only a freight engineer.\" But Saunders never had his original version copyrighted, and thus there is no way of knowing precisely what words he sang.\n\nAs railroaders stopped in Canton, Mississippi, they would pick up the song and pass it along. Soon it was a hit up and down the I.C. line. But it was up to others with a profit motive to take it and rework it for a nationwide audience. Illinois Central Engineer William Leighton appreciated the song's potential enough to tell his brothers Frank Leighton and Bert Leighton, who were vaudeville performers, about it. They took it and sang it in theaters around the country with a chorus they added. But apparently even they neglected to get it copyrighted.\n\nReportedly, Saunders received a bottle of gin for the use of the song. Nothing more was heard from him after this time and he passed into history as the man who helped to make Casey Jones an integral part of American folklore.\n\nFinally, with vaudeville performers T. Lawrence Seibert credited with the lyrics and Eddie Newton with the music, it was published and offered for sale in 1909 with the title \"Casey Jones, The Brave Engineer\". As their intent was to entertain, it was hailed on the cover of the sheet music as the \"Greatest Comedy Hit In Years\" and \"The Only Comedy Railroad Song.\" This version was the one that was strenuously objected to by Casey's wife for making her appear to have been unfaithful to Casey. The offending lines read: \"Mrs. Jones sat on her bed a sighing/Just received a message that Casey was dying/ Said go to bed children and hush your crying/Cause you got another papa on the Salt Lake line.\" This is similar to a line in the song \"Duncan and Brady\". She spent her remaining years refuting those lines, once saying \"That devil hasn't shown up in 58 years!\"\n\nBy World War I, dozens of versions had been published and millions of copies were sold, securing the memory of a new American folk hero. Poet Carl Sandburg called the song \"Casey Jones, the Brave Engineer\" the \"greatest ballad ever written\". Casey Jones figures in many railroad songs, such as \"Freight Train Boogie\", by the Delmore Brothers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4025428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4025428", "title": "The New Adventures of Hitler", "text": "The New Adventures of Hitler\n\nThe New Adventures of Hitler was a comic series written by Grant Morrison and drawn by Steve Yeowell which first appeared in \"Cut\", a Scottish arts magazine in 1989 before being reprinted in the anthology \"Crisis\" in 1990.\n\n\"The New Adventures of Hitler\" was a satirical and surreal (one scene has Hitler opening a cupboard to find Morrissey singing \"Heaven Knows I'm Miserable Now\") strip based on the claims of Hitler's sister-in-law Bridget Dowling that Hitler had lived with her, her husband Alois Hitler, Jr., and her son William Patrick Hitler in Liverpool from 1912 to 1913. It first appeared in \"Cut\", a Scottish arts and culture magazine and became instantly controversial, and some accused Morrison of being a Nazi due to his use of Hitler in what was essentially a humorous story. \n\n\"Cut\" ceased publication before the entire strip was published, but \"The New Adventures of Hitler\" was printed in its entirety in \"Crisis\" in 1990.\n\n\"Crisis\" was a spin-off from \"2000 AD\" which printed more adult-oriented work and \"The New Adventures of Hitler\" fit in with the themes of the magazine. However the controversy which had surrounded the story in \"Cut\" continued with the strip's reprinting in \"Crisis\". The story ran from \"Crisis\" in issues 46-49 and a proposed collected edition by IPC never appeared. Morrison himself had planned to set up his own imprint to self-publish some of his work, including \"The New Adventures of Hitler\", but nothing came of the idea. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "610537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=610537", "title": "The Rothschilds (musical)", "text": "The Rothschilds (musical)\n\nThe Rothschilds is a musical with a book by Sherman Yellen, lyrics by Sheldon Harnick and music by Jerry Bock.\n\nBased on \"The Rothschilds\" by Frederic Morton, it tells of the rise of the Rothschild family from humble beginnings in Germany, to their founding of their financial empire and growing political influence under the guidance of patriarch Mayer Rothschild, to their assistance in funding Napoleon's defeat, and how they secure a declaration of rights for European Jews in the midst of an oppressive era. \n\n\"The Rothschilds\" was the last collaboration between Bock and Harnick. The musical ran on Broadway in 1970 and was revived Off-Broadway in 1990.\n\nIn 1968, Derek Goldby was engaged as the show's director. During out-of-town tryouts, he was replaced by Michael Kidd. After thirteen previews, the Broadway production, produced by Emanuel Azenberg and directed and choreographed by Kidd, opened on October 19, 1970 at the Lunt-Fontanne Theatre, where it ran for 505 performances. The cast included Hal Linden as Mayer Rothschild, Leila Martin as Gutele, Jill Clayburgh as Hannah Cohen, Keene Curtis in the multiple roles of the various national leaders doing business with the Rothschild family (Prince William of Hesse, Joseph Fouché, Herries, and Prince Metternich), Paul Hecht as Nathan Rothschild, Chris Sarandon as Jacob Rothschild, and Robby Benson as young Solomon Rothschild. Reid Shelton replaced Curtis later in the run. The show enjoyed a second production in San Francisco. \n\nAn Off-Broadway revival directed by Lonny Price and choreographed by Michael Arnold opened on February 10, 1990 at the American Jewish Theatre, where it ran for 435 performances. The cast included Mike Burstyn as Mayer, Leslie Ellis as Hannah, Allen Fitzpatrick in the multiple roles of Prince William of Hesse, Joseph Fouché, Herries, and Prince Metternich, Robert Cuccioli as Nathan, and David Cantor as Amshel.\n\nIn 1772 Frankfurt, Germany, Jews are restricted to living in the ghetto and frequently are the victims of violence (“Pleasure and Privilege”). Mayer Amschel Rothschild returns from Hanover, where he was an apprentice banker, to make his fortune in his home town. Because only twelve Jewish marriages are permitted in a given year, he is forced to come up with a plan in order to marry his fiancée Gutele (“One Room”). He reopens his shop, carrying goods and rare coins. At the Frankfurt Fair, he entices Prince William of Hesse with fanciful tales about rare coins (“He Tossed A Coin”), then bribes the prince in order to marry Gutele. Later, Mayer becomes agent for the court bankers, but he wants more. \n\nBy 1778, Mayer and Gutele have five “Sons”, each of whom enters the business as soon as he is old enough. As they age, they and their father chafe at the many restrictions and indignities heaped upon Jews (“Everything”). In 1804, their success and their chutzpah take them to Denmark as superior court agents to the Danish king when Hesse must loan money to him to help fight a war (“Rothschilds and Sons”). However, Hesse is overthrown by Napoleon, and Minister of Police Joseph Fouché takes over (“Allons”). When Mayer and his sons return to Germany, they find no court for which they can be agents. Mayer sends his older sons off to collect Hesse's debts before the French can get them, and sends his younger son, Nathan, to London to invest the money (“Sons\" (reprise)).\n\nInitially awkward in England, Nathan soon displays considerable investing talents (“This Amazing London Tower”). He falls in love with Hannah Cohen, an aristocratic English \"Jewish Joan of Arc\" devoted to charitable works (“I’m in Love! I’m in Love!”). He eventually wins her over by pledging to loan money to England to help win their war against Napoleon if the Chancellor of the Exchequer Herries pledges to make Germany and Austria lift their restrictions on Jews. In Germany, Prince Metternich promises roughly the same thing if the Rothschilds make the loan (“Have You Ever Seen a Prettier Congress”). In 1818, Metternich reneges on his bargain, and old Mayer dies, broken-hearted (“In My Lifetime”). His sons scheme to force Metternich to come to terms by continually undercutting his price for peace bonds, although the plan brings them to the brink of bankruptcy (“Bonds”). Metternich not only concedes but is forced to guarantee that all state bonds will be handled by the House of Rothschild. The ghetto walls are torn down, and Mayer's dream is realized.\n\n"}
{"id": "30978009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30978009", "title": "Trop Jr", "text": "Trop Jr\n\nTrop Jr is a short film festival featuring films produced by Australians aged 15 years and younger. Trop Jr has been part of the Tropfest film festival since 2008 and is held in Sydney, Australia each year. Trop Jr is billed as \"The Worlds Largest Short Film Festival for Kids! By Kids!\".\n\nEach year, Trop Jr has a theme of a \"signature item\", an item or action being incorporated in the entry films to ensure that they are unique and are made specifically for Trop Jr. The films must be seven minutes or less. The prize includes a digital camera, an ABC3 educational filmmaking experience and film and television short courses.\n\nTrop Jr has been included as part of the Tropfest program since 2008, when 8 films were entered into competition. It had been planned for three years, and has support from the Australian Children's Television Foundation, Boomerang and the Cartoon Network.\n\nOne of the judges in 2009, when 12 films were screened, was child actor Brandon Walters. Around 150 films were entered in 2010, of which 14 were finalists including two separate films by a brother and sister; the elder brother won. The 2008 runner-up also made the finals in 2009. The 2011 winner, \"Imagine\", was inspired by Inception, and was made on a camera phone for A$70 over three days. Adrian Di Salle, winner in 2013, had entered 4 times previously, never being shortlisted until his fifth winning entry. \n"}
{"id": "149113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149113", "title": "Wayne's World 2", "text": "Wayne's World 2\n\nWayne's World 2 is a 1993 American comedy film starring Mike Myers and Dana Carvey as hosts of a public-access television cable television show in Aurora, Illinois. The film is the sequel to \"Wayne's World\" (1992), which was adapted from a sketch on NBC's \"Saturday Night Live\".\n\nRock and roll fans Wayne Campbell and Garth Algar now host their public-access television show, \"Wayne's World,\" from an abandoned factory in Aurora, Illinois. After an Aerosmith concert, Wayne has a dream in which he meets Jim Morrison and a \"weird naked Indian\" in a desert. Morrison convinces Wayne that his destiny is to organize a major music festival. Wayne and Garth dub the concert \"Waynestock\" and hire Morrison's former roadie, Del Preston. Their early attempts to sign bands and sell tickets fail, and Wayne wonders if the endeavor is futile.\n\nWayne's girlfriend Cassandra, singer of the band Crucial Taunt, has a new producer, Bobby Cahn, who tries to pull her away from Wayne and Illinois. Garth meets a beautiful woman, Honey Hornée. After Wayne admits spying on her due to his suspicion of Bobby's ulterior motives, Cassandra breaks up with him and becomes engaged to Bobby. Honey Hornée attempts to manipulate Garth into killing her ex-husband, but Garth ends the relationship.\n\nTickets are sold for Waynestock but no bands arrive. Leaving Garth to keep the rowdy crowd in check, Wayne disrupts Cassandra's wedding before escaping the ceremony with her and they get back together, in a scene closely resembling the finale of \"The Graduate\". Meanwhile, Garth has stage fright during the concert. Wayne returns to find the bands have still not arrived.\n\nIn the dream desert, Wayne and Garth consult Morrison, who says that the bands will not come and that all that matters is they tried. They become lost in the desert. Finding this unacceptable, Wayne and Garth reenact the ending of \"Thelma & Louise\", driving their car off a cliff while trying to find the bands. Finally, Wayne and Garth stage an ending in which the bands arrive and Waynestock is a success. Bobby arrives to Waynestock to get Cassandra but is not allowed inside.\n\nAfter the concert, the park is covered with trash and the \"weird naked Indian\" cries. Wayne and Garth begin to remove the litter, promising to clean the entire park.\n\nPenelope Spheeris, who directed the first film believes that Myers encouraged the studio not to have her back for the sequel due to personality conflicts with Myers during the making of the first film. She went on to direct another TV to big screen adaptation, \"The Beverly Hillbillies\" instead and was replaced by Stephen Surjik for the sequel.\n\nMyers' original script for \"Wayne's World 2\" had Wayne and Garth forming their own country and seceding from the US after finding an ancient scroll, in a story taken from the 1949 British comedy \"Passport to Pimlico.\" This version was well into pre-production before it came to light that the studio had no idea the script was based on a previous film and thus had not obtained the rights to \"Passport to Pimlico\". Production was immediately halted—director Surjik said: \"I could hear the chainsaws literally chopping the sets down.\"\n\nStudio executive Sherry Lansing was reportedly furious with Myers and threatened to ruin his life and career if he didn't immediately produce a new script.\n\n\"Wayne's World 2\" received mixed reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a 61% approval rating, based on 44 reviews, with an average rating of 5.8/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"The characters are still endearing, but the jokes in \"Wayne's World 2\" are more hit-and-miss the second time around\".\n\nFilm critic Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film three out of four stars, and wrote that Wayne and Garth are \"impossible to dislike\".\n\nAlthough it was intended to be a Christmas season blockbuster, \"Wayne's World 2\" did not receive the box office intake or positive fan reaction that the first film did. Its final North American gross was $48 million, slightly more than its $40 million production budget, but much less than the original film's gross of over $100 million. \"Wayne's World 2\" also suffered from competition from other holiday season blockbusters such as \"Mrs. Doubtfire\", \"Schindler's List\", and \"The Pelican Brief\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6649969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6649969", "title": "What's Cookin' Doc?", "text": "What's Cookin' Doc?\n\nWhat's Cookin' Doc? is a 1944 Warner Bros. cartoon in the Merrie Melodies series, directed by Bob Clampett and starring Bugs Bunny. The title is a variant on Bugs' catch-phrase \"What's up Doc?\". It also hints at one of the scenes in the picture.\n\nThe plot centers on the Academy Awards presentation. The action begins with live action color film footage of various Hollywood scenes (edited from \"A Star Is Born\"), narrated by Robert C. Bruce. It leads up to the Big Question of the evening: Who will win \"the\" Oscar? The film shows the stereotypical red carpet arrivals of stars, as well as a human emcee starting to introduce the Oscar show.\n\nAt this point the film switches to animation, with the shadow of a now-animated emcee (and now voiced by Mel Blanc) continuing to introduce the Oscar, and Bugs (also Mel Blanc's voice, as usual) assuring the viewer that \"it's in da bag; I'm a cinch to win\". Bugs is stunned when the award goes instead to James Cagney (who had actually won in the previous year's ceremony, for Warner's \"Yankee Doodle Dandy\"). Shock turns to anger as Bugs declares the results to be \"sa-bo-TAH-gee\" and demands a recount.\n\nBugs then tries to make his case by showing clips from \"Hiawatha's Rabbit Hunt\" (which includes a clip of Hiawatha attempting to \"cook\" the rabbit) as proof of his allegedly superior acting (an inside joke, as the cartoon had actually been nominated for an Oscar and lost). He hurls a set of film cans off-screen and tells someone named \"Smokey\" to \"roll 'em!\" Bugs tells the audience that these are some of his \"best scenes\". Immediately a \"stag reel\" (with the title card depicting a grinning stag) starts to roll, and the startled Bugs quickly stops it and switches to the right film. The clip starts with a title card of \"BUGS BUNNY\" in very large letters, as a brassy orchestral fanfare plays, and ends with an end title card of Bugs bending over to show his cotton tail and giving his toothy grin as a comically sped up version of the Merrie Melodies end theme (Merrily We Roll Along) is heard. There is then a parody of aggressive salesmanship. Bugs beats a big bass drum and parades across the stage with signs like “ Let Bugs Have It” and “Give It To Bugs”. Cigars are then quickly passed out en masse to the audience.\n\nFinally, Bugs pleads with the audience, \"What do you say, folks? Do I get it? Or do I get it?\" (echoing Fredric March's drunken appeal to the Academy Award banquet audience in \"A Star Is Born\"). The emcee asks the audience (in an affected nasal voice), \"Shall we give it to him, folks?\" and they yell, \"Yeah, let's give it to him!\" whereupon they pelt Bugs with fruits and vegetables (enabling him to briefly do a Carmen Miranda impression)... and an ersatz Oscar labeled \"booby prize\", which is actually a gold-plated rabbit statue. Bugs is so pleased at winning it, he remarks, \"I'll even take youse to bed wit' me every night!\" The statue suddenly comes alive, asks in a voice like that of radio character, Bert Gordon, \"Do you \"mean\" it?\", smooches the startled bunny, and takes on an effeminate, hip-swiveling pose. The screen fades out, Clampett's famous vocalized \"Bay-woop!\" is heard, and the \"That's all, Folks!\" card appears.\n\nThe subtext of the short is the self-consciousness of Warner Bros. Cartoons about their then-lack of success at the Academy Awards. The studio had yet to win an Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film. The clips from \"Hiawatha's Rabbit Hunt\" (1941) allude to this subtext. It was a former nominee for the award and had lost to \"Lend a Paw\" (1941).\n\nThe live-action film footage derive from the film \"A Star Is Born\" (1937). Footage depict the footprints of the stars at the Chinese Theatre, and nightlife at the Trocadero and the Cocoanut Grove.\n\nThe premise of the film is that Bugs Bunny is competing for the Academy Award for Best Actor. He demonstrates his acting ability by transforming into Jerry Colonna, Bing Crosby, Cecil B. DeMille, Katharine Hepburn, and Edward G. Robinson. As the announcer lists the winner's traits, Bugs transforms to illustrate that they all apply to him: dramatic acting, refined comedy, skill at character roles, and prowess as a screen lover. He demonstrates his character acting by becoming Frankenstein's monster and his romantic acting by changing into Charles Boyer and romancing a carrot.\n\nBugs campaigns for the award by addressing the people in the movie audience. His methods of campaigning include dispensing cigars, drum beating, and glad-handing. He thus earns a booby prize, a second-class award reminiscent of the miniature Oscars awarded to \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" (1937). The implication is that awards are not won by the most talented and deserving, but those capable of lobbying.\n\nThe short includes a subtle reference to World War II. There is a newspaper headline announcing the Academy Awards. A sub-headline on the same page reads \"Jap [Japanese] Cruiser Blown Up\". This is a reference to the contemporary Imperial Japanese Navy. Another sub-headline notes, \"Adolph Hitler commits suicide\". Ironically, that did happen, sixteen months after the film's original release.\n\n\n\n"}
