{"id": "3600824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3600824", "title": "A Time to Kill (1996 film)", "text": "A Time to Kill (1996 film)\n\nA Time to Kill is a 1996 American crime drama film based on John Grisham's 1989 novel \"A Time to Kill\", directed by Joel Schumacher. Sandra Bullock, Samuel L. Jackson, Matthew McConaughey, and Kevin Spacey star, with Oliver Platt, Ashley Judd, Kiefer and Donald Sutherland, and Patrick McGoohan appearing in supporting roles. Set in Mississippi, the film involves the rape of a young girl, the arrest of the rapists, their subsequent murder by the girl's father, and the father's trial for murder. The film was a critical and commercial success, making $152 million at the worldwide box office.\n\nIn the town of Canton, Mississippi, ten-year-old African American Tonya Hailey (Rae'Ven Larrymore Kelly) is abducted, raped, and beaten by two local men, Billy Ray Cobb (Nicky Katt) and Pete Willard (Doug Hutchison). The duo dump her in a nearby river after a failed attempt to hang her. Tonya survives, and the two men are arrested by Sheriff Ozzie Walls (Charles S. Dutton).\n\nTonya's father, Carl Lee Hailey (Samuel L. Jackson), contacts Jake Brigance (Matthew McConaughey), a white lawyer who previously defended his brother. Brigance admits the possibility that the rapists will walk free. Carl Lee goes to the county courthouse and opens fire with an automatic rifle, killing both rapists and unintentionally injuring Deputy Dwayne Looney (Chris Cooper) with a ricochet, whose leg is later amputated. Carl Lee is arrested and Brigance agrees to defend him.\n\nThe rape and subsequent revenge killing gain national media attention. The district attorney, Rufus Buckley (Kevin Spacey), decides to seek the death penalty, and presiding Judge Omar Noose (Patrick McGoohan) denies Brigance a change of venue to a more ethnically-diverse county, meaning that Carl Lee will have an all-white jury. Brigance seeks help from his defense team: law student Ellen Roark (Sandra Bullock), close friend Harry Rex Vonner (Oliver Platt), and former mentor and longtime activist Lucien Wilbanks (Donald Sutherland), a once-great civil rights lawyer. Meanwhile, Billy Ray's brother, Freddie Lee Cobb (Kiefer Sutherland), plans to avenge his brother's death by joining and enlisting the help of the Mississippi branch of the Ku Klux Klan and its Grand Dragon, Stump Sisson (Kurtwood Smith). \n\nOn the first day of the trial, the Klan rallies, only to be outnumbered by counter-protesters consisting of the area's black and multiracial residents, as well as whites who support Carl Lee. The protest erupts into a violent riot that results in dozens of injuries and the death of Stump Sisson. The Klan also begins to target Brigance, assaulting his elderly secretary and her husband, who ends up dying of a fatal heart attack brought on by the assault. They also burn a cross on his lawn and threaten his wife and daughter. When Brigance refuses to back down, Cobb kidnaps and assaults Roark. The Klan then increases their attacks, including burning Brigance's house.\n\nDispirited, Brigance tells Carl Lee that there is little hope for an acquittal. Carl Lee replies that he had chosen him as an attorney because even a racist jury would listen to a white man; as \"one of the bad guys,\" he has an influence that a black man will never have. During closing arguments, a deeply-shaken Brigance tells the jury to close their eyes and listen to a story. He describes, in slow and painful detail, the entire ordeal of Tonya. Brigance then asks the jury, in his final comment, to \"now imagine she's white.\"\n\nAfter deliberation, a black child runs out of the courthouse and screams, \"He's innocent!\" Jubilation ensues amongst the supporters outside. The Klan members, enraged, begin yelling in anger. Meanwhile, Sheriff Walls arrests Freddie Lee for his crimes, as well as a corrupt deputy who is also a member of the Klan and is standing next to the sheriff.\n\nBrigance brings his wife and daughter to a family cookout at Carl Lee's house to celebrate his freedom.\n\nAccording to Boxofficemojo.com, the movie performed well, earning over $108 million domestically.\n\nThe film received mostly positive reviews from critics, earning a 65% \"Fresh\" rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 52 reviews, a critical consensus reading: \"Overlong and superficial, A Time to Kill nonetheless succeeds on the strength of its skillful craftsmanship and top-notch performances\". It has a score of 54 out of 100 on Metacritic, based on 21 reviews.\n\nRoger Ebert gave the film three stars out of four, saying: \"I was absorbed by \"A Time to Kill\", and found the performances strong and convincing,\" and added that \"this is the best of the film versions of Grisham novels, I think, and it has been directed with skill by Joel Schumacher.\"\n\nThe film was not without its detractors, however. Anthony Puccinelli gave the film one star, calling it \"worthless\" and remarking: \"\"A Time to Kill\" argues for vigilantism but disguises its message by making the vigilante black, allowing viewers to think their blood lust and thirst for revenge is actually empathy for the oppressed.\" Peter Travers felt that \"they [Schumacher and screenwriter Akiva Goldsman] cram[med] in too much,\" adding, \"This distracts from the heart of the picture, which is in the bond between Carl Lee (the brilliant [Samuel L.] Jackson is quietly devastating) and Jake, a husband and father who knows he, too, would have shot anyone who raped his little girl.\" Gene Siskel remarked it was \"An overwrought, contrived courtroom thriller\", \"cornball\" and concluded \"This story has been recycled out of countless better movies.\"\n\nGrisham enjoyed the film, remarking: \"When all was said and done I was happy with it, happy we were able to find a kid like Matthew McConaughey. It wasn't a great movie, but it was a good one.\"\n\nIn France, the film has been the subject of much controversy. Critics have accused the movie of making an apology for the death penalty and right of self-defense. A question mark was added at the end of the title (\"Le Droit de tuer ?\"/\"The Right to Kill ?\") so as not to shock the audience. Amnesty International France uses the word \"disturbing\" when referring to the film in one of its documents. \"Les Inrockuptibles\" described the film as \"nauseating\", \"stinking\", almost \"fascist\", with a script \"ultra-populist\" that makes you want to \"vomit\". Libération criticized the script, calling it \"extremely dirty\": the movie, says the newspaper, \"militates in favour of the black cause only to legitimize, after many plot buckles (resurrection of the Ku Klux Klan, the deceits of court, threats of [m]any kinds) the mentally ill gesture of the avenging father\". According to Libération, the movie \"justifies the indefensible\" with a \"dripping sentimentalism\".\n\n\nElliot Goldenthal scored the film. AllMusic gave the soundtrack two and a half stars out of five, commenting that it \"doesn't work particularly well when it's separated from the film itself.\"\n\n\nCredits\n\n\n"}
{"id": "436569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=436569", "title": "Allard K. Lowenstein", "text": "Allard K. Lowenstein\n\nAllard Kenneth Lowenstein (January 16, 1929 – March 14, 1980) was an American Democratic politician, including a U.S. Representative of the 5th Congressional District in Nassau County, New York for one term in 1969 to 1971. His work in the Civil Rights Movement and the antiwar movement has been cited as an inspiration by public figures including former U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry; former U.S. Senators Bill Bradley, Gary Hart and Donald W. Riegle, Jr.; former U.S. Representative Barney Frank, California gubernatorial candidate Phil Angelides, columnist William F. Buckley, Jr., actor Warren Beatty, former White House Counsel Gregory Craig, former New York City Public Advocate Mark Green, and musician-songwriters Peter Yarrow and Harry Chapin.\n\nLowenstein was born in Newark, New Jersey, the son of Lithuanian Jewish immigrants Gabriel Lowenstein and Augusta Goldberg Lowenstein. Lowenstein had two older brothers, Bert and Larry. His mother died from breast cancer when he was very young, and his father remarried soon after. Lowenstein was a graduate of the Horace Mann School in New York City and of the University of North Carolina. As an undergraduate, he was president of the National Student Association and the Dialectic Society. Lowenstein received a J.D. from Yale Law School in 1954.\n\nAfter completing his law degree, Lowenstein became a college professor and administrator, holding posts at Stanford University, North Carolina State University, and City College of New York.\n\nIn 1949 Lowenstein worked as a special assistant on the staff of Senator Frank Porter Graham and he was a foreign policy assistant on Senator Hubert H. Humphrey's staff in 1959. In the 1960s Lowenstein spent time in Mississippi as part of the Freedom Summer and an interview of Lowenstein was featured in episode 5 of the Civil Rights Movement documentary \"Eyes on the Prize\".\n\nIn 1959, Lowenstein made a clandestine tour of South-West Africa, now Namibia. While he was there, he collected testimony against the South African-controlled government (South-West Africa was a United Nations Trust Territory). After his return, he spent a year promoting his findings to various student organizations and then wrote a book, \"A Brutal Mandate\", with an introduction by Eleanor Roosevelt, with whom he had worked in 1957 at the American Association for the United Nations.\n\nIn 1960 Lowenstein was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention.\n\nIn 1964, he attended the 1964 Republican National Convention with his close friend and Congressional colleague Donald Rumsfeld.\n\nIn 1966 he helped Senator Robert F. Kennedy in writing his famous Day of Affirmation Address, given to the National Union of South African Students at the University of Cape Town.\n\nAlong with Curtis Gans in 1967, and later that fall joined by Wisconsin's Midge Miller, Lowenstein started the \"Dump Johnson\" movement, approaching Senators Robert F. Kennedy and, at Kennedy's suggestion, George McGovern about challenging President Johnson in the 1968 Democratic primaries. When Kennedy and McGovern both declined, Lowenstein, a delegate to the Democratic National Convention, recruited and worked for Eugene McCarthy, to whose candidacy he remained loyal, even after Kennedy's late entry into the race (before Johnson bowed out). Johnson's withdrawal from the presidential nomination process has been attributed to the impact of the \"Dump Johnson\" movement, culminating in the historical precedent of McCarthy's strong showing against Johnson in the New Hampshire primary.\n\nLowenstein was elected to Congress in Long Island, New York, in 1968 but was defeated in a modified district in 1970 by New York State Senator Norman F. Lent by 9,300 votes, effectively gerrymandered out of office by the Republican-controlled state legislature, which determined the district's boundaries. Long Island's generally liberal Five Towns region had been removed from the district, and the far more conservative Massapequa added. Lowenstein captured 46% of the vote in the new district.\n\nThe 1970 election was viewed nationwide as a referendum on President Richard Nixon's conduct of the Vietnam War. In 1971, Lowenstein became head of the Americans for Democratic Action and spearheaded the \"Dump Nixon\" movement, earning himself the number 7 spot on Nixon's Enemies List.\n\nIn 1972, Lowenstein ran unsuccessfully for Congress in Brooklyn against Congressman John J. Rooney, a conservative Democrat supported by the party \"machine,\" in the Democratic primary. After Rooney's victory was challenged and the election recalled due to allegations of fraud, Rooney narrowly won the rescheduled primary, but Lowenstein continued in the race on the Liberal Party line, finishing with 28% of the vote.\n\nAfter an abortive 1974 U.S. Senate bid, Lowenstein unsuccessfully challenged incumbent Republican Congressman John Wydler in a largely Republican district in Long Island in 1974 and 1976, receiving crucial support and endorsements from some local conservative Republicans as well as conservative William F. Buckley, Jr. His 52% to 48% defeat in 1974 was the strongest showing of any Democrat in that Congressional district to date, largely attributed to Nixon's recent resignation, the Watergate scandal and Lowenstein's national reputation.\n\nLowenstein was one of the most vocal critics of the unwillingness of Los Angeles and federal authorities to reopen the investigation into the June 6, 1968, assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy. Lowenstein's one-hour appearance on the PBS television show \"Firing Line\" in 1975, where he was interviewed by William F. Buckley Jr., was one of the first times the American public were shown that many elements of ballistic and forensic evidence were radically at odds with eyewitness testimony and the assumption that Sirhan Sirhan alone had shot Senator Kennedy.\n\nPresident Carter appointed Lowenstein as United States Representative to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and thus head the United States delegation to the thirty-third regular annual session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in Geneva, Switzerland, in 1977. Lowenstein served with the rank of ambassador from August 1977 to June 1978 in the capacity of alternate United States Representative for Special Political Affairs to the United Nations.\n\nIn 1978 he resigned his U.N. post to run for Congress in Manhattan's \"Silk Stocking District\", narrowly losing the Democratic primary to Carter Burden, who in turn lost the general election to Republican S. William Green.\n\nLowenstein was a close friend of conservative commentator William F. Buckley, Jr., who featured Lowenstein on numerous \"Firing Line\" programs, publicly endorsed his candidacies for U.S. Congress, and delivered a eulogy at his funeral.\n\nLowenstein reportedly was Republican Donald Rumsfeld's \"best friend in Congress\" during Lowenstein's term of office, the two having become good friends while serving as Congressional aides in the late 1950s. Despite their party and ideological differences, Rumsfeld joined Lowenstein on the victory platform upon Lowenstein's election to Congress in 1968. In 1970, Rumsfeld publicly defended Lowenstein against his Republican opponent's attacks, only to recant and endorse the opponent, Norman Lent, under pressure from the Nassau County (Long Island) Republican organization and Nixon White House. Rumsfeld's public reversal contributed to Lowenstein's reelection defeat and the end of their friendship.\n\nLowenstein's subsequent campaigns for Congress from Long Island against Republican incumbent John Wydler in a largely Republican district were significantly aided by active, public support from several local conservative Republicans.\n\nLowenstein was married to Jennifer Lowenstein (née Lyman, now Littlefield) from 1966 to 1977, when they divorced, and the two had three children: Frank Graham, Thomas Kennedy, and Katharine Eleanor.\n\nKatharine Lowenstein is a victims rights attorney and juvenile justice advocate. Thomas Lowenstein founded and directs the New Orleans Journalism Project, and has worked with the New Orleans Innocence Project. Frank Lowenstein is the U.S. Special Envoy for Israeli-Palestinian Negotiations and Senior Advisor to the U.S. Secretary of State.\n\nLowenstein was murdered in his Manhattan office on March 14, 1980, at age 51 by a mentally ill gunman, Dennis Sweeney.\n\nAt his funeral in New York City on March 18, 1980, eulogies were delivered at his family's request by William F. Buckley, Jr. and Senator Edward M. Kennedy.\n\nA veteran of the United States Army, Lowenstein is buried in Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nLowenstein was well known for his ability to attract energetic young volunteers for his political causes. In the early 1960s, he briefly served as dean of Stern Hall, then a men's dormitory at Stanford University, during which time he met and befriended undergraduate students David Harris and Sweeney. Over a decade later, in 1980, Lowenstein was shot in New York City by Sweeney, now mentally ill and convinced that Lowenstein was plotting against him. Sweeney then calmly waited for the police to arrive and arrest him. Lowenstein, Sweeney, and the shooting are discussed in Harris's autobiographical book \"Dreams Die Hard\" as well as in Richard Cummings's biography of Lowenstein, \"The Pied Piper\".\n\nSweeney was eventually found not guilty by reason of insanity and committed to full-time psychiatric treatment for schizophrenia. By 1992, Sweeney was on 16-hour-a-day furloughs. Members of the Lowenstein family, who had opposed prosecutorial plans to seek a sentence of death for Sweeney, expressed grave concern about the supervision Sweeney would receive and anger that a murderer was being given such privileges.\n\nOn June 30, 2000, a judge found that Sweeney was no longer a danger to society and granted him a conditional release from all levels of custody.\n\nHofstra University established the Allard K. Lowenstein Civil Rights Scholarship in 2007.\n\nYale Law School also has several programs named in honor of Lowenstein. The Allard K. Lowenstein International Human Rights Project was founded in 1981 shortly after Lowenstein's death to honor his contributions in the field of human rights and provide law students with a vehicle to continue his work. The Lowenstein Human Rights Clinic, an outgrowth of the Project, is a clinical course in which law students participate in legal and advocacy research and writing projects for academic credit.\n\nLowenstein's papers are held as a special collection of the Long Beach (New York) Public Library and offer much material relative to his activities and his times. The Long Beach, New York Public Library is also named after Lowenstein (since the 1980s).\n\nIn 1980, Lowenstein received the Award for Greatest Public Service Benefiting the Disadvantaged, an award given out annually by Jefferson Awards.\n\nAn area adjacent to the United Nations headquarters in New York City is named Allard K. Lowenstein Square.\n\nIn 1983, the documentary film \"Citizen: The Political Life of Allard K. Lowenstein\" was produced by Brogan De Paor, Mike Farrell and Julie Thompson and directed by Thompson. It was broadcast on PBS Television in 1984.\n\nSinger/songwriter Harry Chapin dedicated a live performance of his song \"Remember When the Music\" to Lowenstein, as recorded on the album \"Bottom Line Encore Series: Harry Chapin\".\n\nLowenstein was portrayed by Brent Spiner in the 1984 television miniseries \"Robert Kennedy and His Times\", based on the book by Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44796427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44796427", "title": "Anna Politkovskaya Award", "text": "Anna Politkovskaya Award\n\nThe Anna Politkovskaya Award was established in 2006 to remember and honor the Russian campaigning journalist Anna Politkovskaya (1958–2006), murdered in Moscow on 7 October 2006 in order to silence her reporting about the war in Chechnya. \n\nThe award is presented annually by the international human rights organisation, RAW in WAR (Reach All Women in War) and honours women human rights defenders from around the world, who work in war and conflict zones, often at great personal risk. Mariana Katzarova, a friend and a human rights colleague of Politkovskaya, founded RAW in WAR (Reach All Women in WAR) and the Anna Politkovskaya Award in 2006 in London, after being a journalist and human rights advocate in the war zones of Kosovo, Bosnia and Chechnya.\n\nIn 2016, to mark the tenth anniversary of the murder of Anna Politkovskaya, an additional special award was presented to a woman human rights defender from Russia who, like Anna Politkovskaya and the first winner of the award, Natalia Estemirova, who was murdered in Chechnya in 2009, has worked to build peace in conflict zones and help civilians trapped between opposing armed forces. The special award was presented to Valentina Cherevatenko who, since 1990, has intervened in a succession of conflicts in the former Soviet Union, working through her organisation, the Women of the Don NGO.\n\nIn October 2018, ahead of the 12th anniversary of the murder of Anna Politkovskaya, RAW in WAR presented the 2018 Anna Politkovskaya Award to Binalakshmi Nepram, a courageous indigenous human rights defender and author from the state of Manipur, on the Indo-Myanmar border area, and Svetlana Alexievich, a brave writer and investigative journalist from Belarus and the 2015 Nobel Prize laureate in literature.\n\nA group of more than 100 influential cultural and political leaders joined the Committee of Supporters for the RAW in WAR Anna Politkovskaya Award. Among them are:\n\nNobel Women’s Initiative, Mairead Maguire (Nobel Peace Prize Laureate), Betty Williams (Nobel Peace Prize Laureate), Jody Williams (Nobel Peace Prize Laureate), Shirin Ebadi (Nobel Peace Prize Laureate), Rigoberta Menchú Tum (Nobel Peace Prize Laureate), Archbishop Desmond Tutu (Nobel Peace Prize Laureate), Tatiana Yankelevich, Vaclav Havel, Jon Snow, John Pilger, Amy Goodman, Jeremy Bowen, Andre Glucksmann, Gloria Steinem, Sergey Kovalyov, Alexei Simonov, Vladimir Bukovsky, Svetlana Gannushkina, Lyudmila Alekseeva, Karinna Moskalenko, Lyse Doucet, Lindsey Hilsum, Gillian Slovo, Eva Hoffman, Adam Michnik, Oleg Panfilov, Tom Stoppard, Bernard-Henri Lévy, Natasha Kandic, Elisabeth Rehn, Zbigniew Brzezinski, Mariane Pearl, Azar Nafisi, Asma Jahangir, Carl Gershman, Hina Jilani, Susan Sarandon, Jane Birkin, Sophie Shihab, Naomi Klein, Sister Helen Prejean, Ariel Dorfman, Vanessa Redgrave, Eve Ensler, Michael Cunningham, John Sweeney, Jonathan Schell, Noam Chomsky, Marina Litvinenko, Lucy Ash, Sussan Deyhim, Heidi Bradner, Desmond O'Malley, Anne Nivat, Annabel Markova, Lord Frank Judd, Lord Nicolas Rea, Shirley Williams, Lord Anthony Giddens, Lord Nazir Ahmed, Baroness Molly Meacher, Baroness Vivien Stern, Baroness Helena Kennedy QC, Dame Evelyn Glennie, Yakin Erturk, Elena Kudimova, Andrey Nekrasov, Peter Gabriel, Stina Scott, Anna Stavitskaya, Dubravka Ugresic, Katrina vanden Heuvel, Victor Navasky, Holly Near, Joan Baez, Elizabeth Frank, Elizabeth Kostova, Bill Bowring, Irena Grudzinska Gross, Monica Ali, Isa Blyden, Nayereh Tohidi, Claire Bertschinger, Tsvetana Maneva, Elif Shafak and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13500837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13500837", "title": "Asian Journal of Public Affairs", "text": "Asian Journal of Public Affairs\n\nThe Asian Journal of Public Affairs is a biannual academic journal covering public affairs issues pertaining to Asia and the Oceania region. It is edited by graduate students from the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University of Singapore. The journal's scope includes, but is not limited to, public policy, public management, international relations, international political economy, and economics. Each issue features scholarly submissions, case studies, book reviews, and commentaries.\n\nThe journal was established in July 2007, featuring an editorial from Kishore Mahbubani, dean of the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, among full-length articles from graduate students in the UK, US, China, and Singapore. A printed version was started with the launch of the 5th issue by Kofi Annan in April 2009.\n"}
{"id": "479512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479512", "title": "Better Business Bureau", "text": "Better Business Bureau\n\nThe Better Business Bureau (BBB), founded in 1912, is a private, nonprofit organization whose self-described mission is to focus on advancing marketplace trust, consisting of 106 independently incorporated local BBB organizations in the United States and Canada, coordinated under the Council of Better Business Bureaus (CBBB) in Arlington, Virginia.\n\nThe Better Business Bureau is not affiliated with any governmental agency. Businesses that affiliate with the BBB and adhere to its standards do so through industry self-regulation. To avoid bias, the BBB's policy is to refrain from recommending or endorsing any specific business, product or service.\n\nThe organization has been the subject of controversy, particularly related to its alleged practice of giving higher ratings to businesses that pay a membership fee. The BBB disputes the claim that payment from businesses is required for them to receive an \"A\" rating. Business consultant and previous national Manager of Customer Service for Checker Auto Parts Eva Love observed, \"Complaining about a business to the Better Business Bureau is like complaining to the mouse's mother after a mouse steals your cheese. It will help if the wind is blowing in your direction.\"\n\nNearly 400,000 local businesses in North America are accredited by the BBB. The BBB prospects successfully vetted businesses to become dues-paying 'accredited businesses' that pledge and continue to adhere to the BBB Code of Business Practices. In return, the BBB allows accredited businesses in good standing to use its trademarked logo in marketing materials.\n\n\"Medical quackery and the promotions of nostrums and worthless drugs were among the most prominent abuses which led to the establishment of formal self-regulation in business and, in turn, to the creation of the NBBB.\" The concept of the Better Business Bureau has been credited to several court cases, such as United States v. Forty Barrels and Twenty Kegs of Coca-Cola, initiated by the government against a number of organizations, including the Coca-Cola Company, in 1906 after the Pure Food and Drug Act had become law. Samuel Candler Dobbs, sales manager of Coca-Cola and later its president, took up the cause of truth in advertising in the wake of those judgments.\n\nIn 1909, Dobbs became president of the Associated Advertising Clubs of America, now the American Advertising Federation (AAF), and began to make speeches on the subject. In 1911, he was involved in the adoption of the \"Ten Commandments of Advertising,\" one of the first codes of advertising developed by groups of advertising firms and individual businesses. Similar organizations in succeeding decades, such as the National Better Business Commission, Inc. of the Associated Advertising Clubs of the World (1921), and the National Association of Better Business Bureaus, Inc. (1933), merged to become the Association of Better Business Bureaus, Inc., in 1946. In 1970, the Council of Better Business Bureaus (CBBB) was established.\n\nThe 112 BBBs are independently governed by their own boards of directors and must meet international BBB standards, which are monitored by the CBBB. The CBBB is governed by leaders of local BBBs, as well as by senior executives from major corporations, and community leaders such as academics and legal experts. Each BBB is run separately and is chiefly funded by its accredited businesses, who often serve on its board. A study by a business school dean at Marquette University found that ninety percent of BBB board members are from business.\n\nBusinesses that move from one BBB jurisdiction to another may need to apply for BBB accreditation in the new BBB location unless they have a system-wide accreditation. CBBB receives membership dues from BBBs, which amounted to US $4,884,226 in 2009.\n\nThe organization's dispute resolution procedures are established by the Council of the Better Business Bureaus, and implemented by local BBBs. Usually, disputes can be resolved through mediation; when appropriate, low- or no‑cost arbitration may also be offered and provided through the BBB. The BBB acts as a neutral party when providing dispute resolution services.\n\nComplaints about the practice of professions like medicine and law are usually not handled by the BBB and are referred to associations regulating those professions. The BBB does not handle complaints that have gone to court or are in the process of going to court as the complaint is already being handled by an alternative entity.\n\nIf a BBB receives a consumer dispute, the BBB contacts the business in question and offers to mediate the dispute. A business does not need to be a member of the BBB to use its mediation services. BBB accreditation, or membership, is completely optional for a business to accept and participate in through the payment of dues. Past complaints allege that the BBB compiles scores based upon their ability to collect their money from businesses, and not entirely upon business performance.\n\nThe National Advertising Division of the Council of Better Business Bureaus in the United States and Canada reviews factual claims made in national advertisements. They offer alternative dispute resolution services for advertisers, typically reaching a conclusion within 90 days of a filing. Compliance with findings is voluntary.\n\nUntil 2008, the BBB rated companies \"satisfactory\" or \"unsatisfactory.\" On January 1, 2009, the BBB moved to a new system based on a school-style A to F rating system. The 16 factors have been posted on each business review since the program's inception and the details on the points awarded as well. Initially there was a 17th factor worth 4 points for businesses that were Accredited and paid a fee to BBB. That process was changed in November 2010 in response to criticism in the media and from the Connecticut attorney general who accused BBB of using \"pay to play\" tactics.\n\nIf a business chooses not to provide basic information, such as size and start date, the BBB may assign a not-rated (NR) rating. A low rating due solely to a company not providing information would read: \"BBB does not have sufficient background information on this business.\"\n\nA business is eligible for BBB accreditation if it meets, in the opinion of the BBB, the \"BBB Standards for Trust\". There are eight BBB Standards for Trust that the BBB expects its accredited businesses to adhere to build trust (\"maintain a positive track record in the marketplace\"), advertise honestly, tell the truth, be transparent, honor promises, be responsive (address marketplace disputes), safeguard privacy (protect consumer data) and embody integrity.\n\nThe Attorney General of Connecticut demanded that the BBB stop using its weighted letter grade system, calling it \"potentially harmful and misleading\" to consumers. Responding to the Attorney General of Connecticut and others, the BBB has since modified its letter grade system.\n\nIn 2010 ABC's \"20/20\" reported in a segment titled \"The Best Ratings Money Can Buy\" about the irregularities in BBB ratings. They reported that a man created two dummy companies which received \"A+\" ratings as soon as he had paid the membership fee. They also reported that business owners were told that the only way to improve their rating was by paying the fee. In one case a \"C\" was turned to an \"A\" immediately after a payment and in another case a C‑minus became an \"A+\". The chef Wolfgang Puck said that some of his businesses receive \"F\" because he refuses to pay a fee. Ritz Carlton, which does not belong either, also receives Fs for not responding to its complaints.\n\nIn response, the president of the Council of Better Business Bureaus has stated the BBB ratings system will cease awarding points to businesses for being BBB members. The national BBB's executive committee voted to address the public's perception of the ratings system. It voted that the BBB ratings system would no longer give additional points to businesses because they are accredited. It voted to implement a system to handle complaints about BBB sales practices. Despite the vote, the BBB website still states that points are taken away if accreditation is lost.\n\nIn Canada, CBC News reported in 2010 that Canadian BBBs were downgrading the ratings scores of businesses who stopped paying their dues. For example, a moving business who had an \"A\" rating and had been a BBB member for 20 years, dropped to a D‑minus rating when they allegedly no longer wanted to pay dues.\n\nBBBs have been accused of unduly protecting companies. If a branch does not act reasonably on behalf of a consumer, a complaint may be filed with the Federal Trade Commission. Moreover, recent reports have suggested that the Austin chapter of the Better Business Bureau refused to resolve complaints against companies if customers do not pay a $70 mediation fee.\n\nAdditionally, while the BBB publishes names of corporations, it withholds the names of individuals lodging complaints. The BBB also publishes the complainant's claim without any attempt at verification. The net result is that the BBB can be used to launch anonymous attacks on businesses with the onus falling on the business to refute any untrue or exaggerated claims made by the complainant.\n\nIt has been reported that the BBB encourages and solicits money from the very businesses they monitor which, again, raises the question of neutrality. The BBB states that they hold their Accredited businesses to a higher standard, as outlined in their Accreditation standards. This behavior is likely the reason for such backronyms as, \"Better for Businesses Bureau\" and \"Bribes from Businesses Bureau,\" popular nicknames for the organization presumably stemming from the frustration regarding the above criticisms.\n\nOn December 22, 2010, William Mitchell, CEO of the Los Angeles BBB, and originator of the BBB letter grading system, resigned as a result of an internal investigation conducted by the CBBB. The resignation was rescinded shortly afterward, however, with Mitchell claiming that his health prompted him to resign, and criticizing the National Council for attempting to take over the Southern California chapter.\n\nThe Better Business Bureau of Metropolitan Toronto closed in 1995 following reports of high executive pay.\n\nOn August 16, 2011 the Council of Better Business Bureaus (CBBB) announced the formal integration of operations in the United States & Canada, effective immediately. The CBBB Board of Directors voted earlier this month on the integration plan. The Council of Better Business Bureaus is the international headquarters of the BBB system and the governing body that licenses local BBBs and provides support services to increase their effectiveness.\n\nAccording to the statement, integration marks the way \"...for an improved customer experience for those who purchase goods and services across the border.\" \"The U.S. and Canada remain each other's largest trading partners,\" noted Stephen A. Cox, President and CEO of CBBB. \"We are really one North American marketplace, and the BBB system now reflects that. Not only will it be easier for consumers to check out businesses in either country, it will be simpler for them to file a complaint or resolve a dispute.\"\n\nThe move was supported by the Canadian Council of Better Business Bureaus (CCBBB). \"Given the advances in technology and the globalization of services, it no longer makes sense to maintain two separate systems,\" said M. Jean Lemyre, chair of the CCBBB. \"The vast majority of consumers initially contact BBB through the Internet. Aligning BBB services into one integrated system will be more efficient for businesses in Canada, and will ensure that consumers continue to receive the high quality of services they've come to expect from BBB.\"\n\nThe Council of Better Business Bureaus (CBBB) revoked the BBB name & trademark from four Canadian Better Business Bureaus. The CBBB said it made the move to withdraw trademark authorization from the offices in Hamilton, Windsor, Montreal and St. John's after determining these four Canadian offices did not meet the defined standards of operation.\n\nCBBB realigned the boundaries of its affected Canadian offices and folded them into larger offices. Hamilton has been gathered under the banner of the BBB's Kitchener office, while the territories in SW Ontario (including Windsor) are now part of the Western Ontario region based in London, ON.\n\nThe former President of the Better Business Bureau of Windsor and South Western Ontario claims that he continues to operate under the name IntegrityLink in 2011, although services offered under that name have not been verified and the CBBB maintains concerns that some of the former BBB's continue to make use of proprietary information to which they are no longer entitled.\n\nSince 2011 the Hamilton, Montreal & St. John's offices have also changed their names or closed following what they termed a takeover by the U.S.-based Council of Better Business Bureaus. The Hamilton, Ontario BBB adopted the name Canadian Businesses and Charity Bureau. In May 2012, the Hamilton organization was locked out of its office by its landlord in a rent dispute.\nLocal BBBs in Montreal and St. John's, Newfoundland also left the CBBB and lost the right to use the BBB name. The Montreal BBB changed its name to L'Office de Certification Commerciale du Québec or Québec Commercial Certification Office, while the BBB in St. John's, Newfoundland, reportedly closed.\n\nOn March 12, 2013, the Council of Better Business Bureaus expelled the Los Angeles-based Better Business Bureau of the Southland, the largest local BBB, claiming that the local group had not met the Council's \"standards relating to accreditation, reporting on businesses, and handling complaints.\" \n\nThe Los Angeles group changed its name to the Business Consumer Alliance and said that it had followed all the Council's policies. The Council of Better Business Bureaus launched a new local BBB for the Los Angeles area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24607622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24607622", "title": "Catholic Civil Rights League", "text": "Catholic Civil Rights League\n\nThe Catholic Civil Rights League is a Canadian lay Catholic organization which makes statements in the media about Catholicism and which lobbies the government and takes part in court cases to advocate policies in line with its interpretation of Catholic teachings. The CCRL has played a prominent role in Canadian social debates surrounding abortion, same-sex marriage and prostitution, where it has argued from a social conservative standpoint, in line with Catholic social teaching. The organization works closely with other Catholic organizations on social issues that matter for the Church.\n\nThe League opposes what it views as anti-Catholicism and anti-religion in the media. It responds to criticism of Catholic teaching in the media and to comedy programs about Catholic characters which it views as blasphemous, sometimes filing complaints with the Canadian Broadcast Standards Council (CBSC) and Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC).\n\nCCRL has been involved in a number of cases which relate to its interpretation of Catholicism, opposing same-sex marriage in several cases in the late 90s and early 2000s, and opposing the Ontario court's decision in the \"three-parent case\" which determined that a child's second custodial parent could become his legal parent without a non-custodial biological parent surrendering parental status. It has also taken a socially conservative position in a case challenging Canada's restrictions on prostitution, and advocated for policies protecting discrimination and hate speech against LGBT people, and displays of graphic anti-abortion posters where not permitted, as an expression of religious belief.\n\nCCRL does not directly campaign for candidates. It has made presentations to parliamentary committees opposing assisted suicide in the mid-90s and at present, and same-sex marriage in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "46792892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46792892", "title": "Christian Values Party (Sweden)", "text": "Christian Values Party (Sweden)\n\nThe Christian Values Party () is a Christian conservative party in Sweden. It was founded in January 2014 in opposition to the mainstream Christian Democrats. The party opposes abortion, same-sex or single adoption, and sex education, and advocates state policy to promote exclusively heterosexual marriage, homeschooling and parochial schooling, and sharper penalties for severe violent and sexual offenses.\n\n"}
{"id": "37780302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37780302", "title": "Citizinvestor", "text": "Citizinvestor\n\nCitizinvestor is an American-based civic crowdfunding website that describes itself as a \"crowdfunding and civic engagement platform for local government projects.\"\n\nCitizinvestor is an online crowdfunding platform specifically focused on raising money for public projects and community infrastructure, started in Tampa, Florida by Jordan Raynor, Tony DeSisto, Erik Rapprich, and Joy Randels. It was launched in partnership with the city of Philadelphia. \n\nIt was inspired by a case in Davis Islands where the community wanted a swimming pool repaired, but the city did not have the finances to do so; citizens successfully raised the funds with events and going door-to-door and this became the model for Citizinvestor. The founders hope to \"spark a rise of micro philanthropists\". The platform allows citizens to promote independent projects through a petition process and also works with city officials to crowdfund civic projects that were planned but abandoned due to budget constraints.\n\nWhile anyone can start petitions for new projects, projects can only be submitted by government entities, usually municipal governments. Donations are tax deductible, and donors are not charged if their project does not reach its funding target. Unlike other crowdfunding platforms, no perks/rewards are offered. The site's initial focus was on projects: between $10,000 and $20,000.\n\nCitizinvestor also offers a software as a service product, Citizinvestor Connect. Local municipalities, public-private partnerships, economic development organizations, and nonprofits can license the platform and customize it for their organization, leveraging it to raise funds and engage with their community. \n\n"}
{"id": "35476560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35476560", "title": "Core Issues Trust", "text": "Core Issues Trust\n\nThe Core Issues Trust is a British Christian organisation, which focuses on issues of homosexuality, both Christian and non-Christian.\n\nCore Issues Trust offers support to those seeking to change homosexual behaviour and feelings. The Trust considers human sexuality in both men and women to be fluid; the brain malleable; and that sexual identity, feelings and patterning may change. \n\nIn April, 2012, the group received disparaging media coverage following a public campaign, which included advertisements on London buses claiming that therapy could change sexual orientation. Although the campaign was passed by the Committee of Advertising Practice, it was subsequently banned by London Mayor Boris Johnson. \n\nThe group's leader, Dr. Mike Davidson (who received his doctorate in education rather than medicine), defines himself as ex-gay,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28876623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28876623", "title": "Corporate group (sociology)", "text": "Corporate group (sociology)\n\nA corporate group is two or more individuals, usually in the form of a family, clan, organization, or company. A major distinction between different political cultures is whether they believe the individual is the basic unit of their society, in which case they are individualistic, or whether corporate groups are the basic unit of their society, in which case they are corporatist.\n\nIn social psychology and biology, research shows that penguins reside in densely populated corporate breeding colonies.\n\nIn humans, different cultures have different beliefs about what the basic unit of the culture is. These assumptions affect their beliefs about what the proper concern of the government should be.\n\n"}
{"id": "47948609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47948609", "title": "Cura Annonae", "text": "Cura Annonae\n\nIn ancient Rome, the Roman government used the term Cura Annonae (\"care for the grain supply\"), in honour of their goddess Annona, to describe the import and distribution of grain to the residents of the city of Rome. Rome imported most of the grain consumed by its population, estimated to number one million people by the second century CE. Most of the grain was distributed through commercial or non-subsidized channels, but a dole of subsidized or free grain, and later bread, was provided by the government to about 200,000 of the poorer residents of the city of Rome. \n\nA regular and predictable supply of grain and the grain dole were part of the Roman leadership's strategy of maintaining tranquility among a restive urban population by providing them with what the poet Juvenal sarcastically called \"bread and circuses.\" In 22 CE, the emperor Tiberius said that the Cura Annonae if neglected would be 'the utter ruin of the state.\" \n\nThe most important sources of the grain, mostly durum wheat, were Egypt, North Africa (21st century Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, and Morocco), and Sicily. The logistics of moving the grain by sea from those places to Rome required many hundreds of ships, some very large, and an extensive system for collecting the grain and distributing it inside Rome itself. The archaeological records of the grain trade are sparse, due to the \nperishability of grain which has made its detection difficult for archaeologists. \n\nThe population of the city of Rome declined precipitously during the 5th, the last century of the Western Roman Empire, and 6th centuries CE. It is unknown when the Cura Annonae ended. It may have persisted into the 6th century. \nThe city of Rome grew rapidly in the centuries of the Roman Republic and Empire, reaching a population approaching one million in the second century CE. The population of the city grew beyond the capacity of the nearby rural areas to meet the food needs of the city. In addition to the need for commercial imports of grain to Rome, free or subsidized grain was distributed to a large percentage of the Roman population. \n\nIn the early centuries of the Republic, the Roman government intervened sporadically to distribute free or subsidized grain to its population. Regular distribution began in 123 BCE with a grain law proposed by Gaius Gracchus and approved by the Roman popular assembly. Adult male citizens (over 14 years of age) of Rome were entitled to buy at a below-market price five \"modii\", about , of grain monthly. Approximately 40,000 adult males were eligible for the grain. In 62 and 58 BCE the number of Romans eligible for grain was expanded and grain became free to its recipients. The numbers of those receiving free or subsidized grain expanded to an estimated 320,000 before being reduced to 150,000 by Julius Caesar and then set at 200,000 by Augustus Caesar, a number that remained more or less stable until near the end of the Western Roman Empire. \n\nIn the 3rd century CE, the dole of grain was replaced by bread, probably during the reign of Septimius Severus (193-211 CE). Severus also began providing olive oil to residents of Rome, and later the emperor Aurelian (270-275) ordered the distribution of wine and pork. The doles of bread, olive oil, wine, and pork apparently continued until near the end of the Western Roman Empire in 476 CE, although the decline in the population of the city of Rome reduced the quantities of food required.\n\nThe dole in the early Roman Empire is estimated to account for 15 to 33 percent of the total grain imported and consumed in Rome. \n\nBy the late 200s BCE, grain was being shipped to the city of Rome from Sicily and Sardinia. In the first century BCE, the three major sources of wheat were Sardinia, Sicily, and North Africa, i.e. the region centered on the ancient city of Carthage, present day Tunisia. With the incorporation of Egypt into the Roman empire and the rule of the emperor Augustus (27 BCE-14 CE), Egypt became the main source of supply of grain for Rome. By the 70s CE, the historian Josephus was claiming that Africa fed Rome for eight months of the year and Egypt only four. Although that statement may ignore grain from Sicily, and overestimate the importance of Africa, there is little doubt among historians that Africa and Egypt were the most important sources of grain for Rome. To help assure that the grain supply would be adequate for Rome, in the first century BCE, Graccus settled 6,000 colonists near Carthage, giving them about each to grow grain. \n\nGrain made into bread was, by far, the most important element in the Roman diet. Several scholars have attempted to compute the total amount of grain need to supply the city of Rome. Rickman estimated that Rome needed 40 million \"modii\" (200,000 metric tons) of grain per year to feed its population. Erdkamp estimated that the amount needed would be at least 150,000 metric tons, calculating that each resident of the city consumed of grain per year. The total population of Rome assumed in calculating these estimates was between 750,000 and one million people. David Mattingly and Gregory Aldrete estimated the amount of imported grain at 237,000 metric tons for 1 million inhabitants; This amount of grain would provide 2,326 calories daily per person not including other foods such as meats, seafood, fruit, legumes, vegetable and dairy.\n\nThe shipping lanes that connected Rome with its centers of grain supply (Egypt, North Africa, Sicily and perhaps other places.) had strategic importance. Whoever controlled the grain supply had an important measure of control over the city of Rome. Rome was dependent upon the prompt arrival of imported grain. \n\nThe provision of grain to Rome was a major shipping and administrative task for the Romans. It was not feasible to supply Rome's needs by land transport. It was \"cheaper to ship grain from one end of the Mediterranean to the other\" by sea than \"to cart it by land some 75 miles [120 kilometers].\" Thus, a large fleet of sea-worthy grain ships was required to bring grain from relatively nearby Sicily and Sardinia, more distant North Africa, and much more distant Egypt. In straight line distances (and sailing ships did not normally travel in straight lines), distances from Sicily to Rome were more than , from Carthage in North Africa more than , and from Egypt more than . Sailing times from the ports of Ostia (near Rome) and Puteoli (near Naples) to Alexandria in Egypt might be as brief as 14 days. Returning to Rome would take much longer as the winds were adverse and ships had to hug coastlines and travel in a round-about manner. \"The voyage...from Alexandria to Rome was a continuous fight against foul winds.\" Lionel Casson estimated that average time for the voyage was nearly 70 days. Grain was packed into sacks, rather than carried loose in the holds of ships. Casson estimates the outward freighters \"raced down from Ostia or Pozzuoli to Alexandria with the wind on their heels in ten days to two weeks\" and the voyage back laden with grain \"...took at least a month and on occasion two or more.\" Given also the time needed for loading and unloading the grain ships by hand, the ships traversing the Egypt to Rome route likely only completed one round trip per year. Several round trips per year could be accomplished from North Africa or Sicily. Spain was also an important source of olive oil, and possibly grain.\n\nGrain from Egypt. The harvest season for grain in ancient Egypt was from April to early June. The annual Nile Flood began in June and thus harvest had to be finished before the river's waters covered the land. The grain in Egypt was apparently acquired by Rome as a tax on farmers. The grain was moved mostly by barge on the various distributaries of the Nile River to Lake Mareotis bordering the southern part of the city of Alexandria. There it was inspected for quality and, when accepted, transported by canal to the port of Alexandria, the Great Harbor, where it was loaded on ships for Rome.\n\nGrain from North Africa. Twenty-nine Mediterranean ports (not including Egypt) possibly exporting grain to Rome have been found by archaeologists in northern Africa, ranging in location from 21st century Libya to Morocco. The largest was probably Carthage. Given the lack of navigable rivers in the region grain had to be transported to these ports by land, suggesting that, because of the cost of land transport, the grain was grown in close proximity to the ports. The grain was probably transported to the ports in four-wheeled carts drawn by four oxen, each cart carrying to . Grain from ancient Cyraenica (Libya) may have been important because an early harvest there could supply Rome before other grain-growing regions had been harvested. The arrival each year of the first fleets of grain ships was an eagerly awaited event in Rome.\n\nThe last leg. On arrival in the post of Ostia, at the mouth of the Tiber River, the grain was off-loaded from its transport ship and loaded onto barges which were hauled up the river by animal or man power to the city of Rome, approximately upriver. On arrival in Rome, the grain was stored in large warehouses, called \"horrea,\" until needed. Most of the horrea from the 1st century CE onwards were state-owned.\n\nHundreds or even thousands of ships were required to transport grain to Rome. The government of Rome encouraged building large ships for grain transport. Some had a capacity of carrying 50,000 modii (350 tons) or even more. Ships of much larger capacity are suggested in Lucian and the Acts of the Apostles. Grain transport presented special problems. Grain must be kept cool and dry to prevent sprouting and infestations of pests and mold and prevented from shifting from side to side in the hold of the ship which could impact the seaworthiness of the transport ship. Grain that was wet could sink the ship by expanding and splitting the sideboards of the hull.\n\nLucian, c. 150 CE, described a very large grain ship taking shelter in the port of Piraeus, Greece. The Isis was in length and had a beam of more than a quarter of that. From the deck to the bottom of the cargo hold was . Casson calculated that the cargo capacity was 1200 to 1300 metric tons of grain.an estimate that has not been verified by archaeological findings. The grain ships were propelled entirely by sails, and not by banks of oarsmen as were Roman warships. \n\nCasson reconstructed a voyage from Alexandria, Egypt to Rome. A grain ship leaving Alexandria, would first steer north east to Cyprus, then follow the south coast of Asia Minor (21st century Turkey) westwards, and proceed along the south shore of Crete, stopping as needed at one of several ports enroute. From Crete the grain ship would strike out across the Mediterranean Sea westwards toward the island of Malta, the objective being Syracuse, Sicily and the Straits of Messina. After passing through the Straits, large grain ships would dock at the port of Puteoli, near Naples, or after port improvements about 113 CE, at Ostia near Rome. From Puteoli the cargo of the large ships would be off-loaded onto smaller ships and taken to Ostia. Smaller ships coming from North Africa or Egypt could proceed directly to Ostia for unloading. \n\nThe voyage of Paul. The experience of Paul the Apostle in 62 CE illustrates the dangers of the voyage from Egypt to Rome. Paul boarded a Rome-bound grain ship in Asia Minor. The ship was large, with 276 people aboard, counting both crew and passengers. The voyage was late in the sailing season, after the Day of Atonement (which is usually in early October) and the winds were adverse. Following the usual route along the south shore of Crete, Paul's ship was blown off course and wrecked on the island of Malta. He spent the winter on Malta, then proceeded onward to Puteoli and Rome.\n\nShip owners. The ships involved in the grain trade were privately owned. The Roman government provided subsidies and tax exclusions to encourage ship-building and the grain trade and took the risk of shipping on itself by providing a form of insurance to ship owners.\n\nBread was the most important item in the Roman diet. A shortage of grain to make bread, or a large increase in the price of grain, could -- and often did -- have serious political consequences, including riots of the populace which impacted the stability of the Roman government. A dole of grain was given monthly to the poorer people of Rome. Grain was sold to those not qualifying for the dole, or to those who needed grain in addition to what they received in the dole. The precise details of how grain was marketed in Rome, however, are a \"major puzzle.\" \n\nIn the early centuries of the Roman republic and Empire, the individuals receiving the grain took it to one of many small flour mills in the city to have it ground into flour and then either baked the flour into bread at a home oven, a communal oven, or one of the numerous bakeries in every district of the city. Hand-driven mills for grain were known in the 5th century BCE in Greece, and presumably spread to Rome shortly. Hand-driven mills had only small capactity of grinding grain into flour, serving an individual household or a few households. Animal driven mills (usually using donkeys) with a much larger capacity appeared in Rome by the 3rd century BCE, and the establishment of bakeries probably accompanied the adoption of animal driven mills. Water driven mills with still greater capacity were first utilized in the 1st century BCE, but their development required a large investment in infrastructure, especially of aqueducts, and their use to grind nearly all of the grain for the city of Rome did not come until the late 2nd or 3rd centuries CE. \n\nA steady supply of water was needed for watermills and this came from the Aqua Traiana, an aqueduct bringing water some from springs near Lake Bracciano to Janiculum hill just outside the walls of the city of Rome. The aqueduct was inaugurated in 109 CE and the water it carried was used initially as drinking and bathing water. A famine (and resultant riots) in 190 CE caused by corruption in the grain distribution system influenced the Roman government under Emperor Septimus Severus to intervene and convert the distribution of grain to the populace into the distribution of flour. The watermills constructed at Janiculum \"were intended to centralize, regularize, and perhaps even deprivatize the city's milling operations.\" Estimates of the date when the watermills came into operation vary, but it was probably in the early 3rd century. \n\nThe conversion of a grain supply for the citizens of the city of Rome to a flour supply carried with it a host of problems. Flour is much more perishable than grain, and its distribution would have to carried out more often. Little is known about the initial distribution system for the flour produced by the watermills. The Emperor Aurelian (270-275 CE) is usually credited with changing or completing the change of the food distribution system from grain or flour to bread, and adding olive oil, salt, and pork to the products distributed to the populace. These products had been distributed sporadically before Aurelian. Aurelian is also credited with increasing the size of the loaves of bread without increasing the price of a loaf, a measure that was undoubtedly popular with the Romans who were not receiving free bread and other products through the dole. In the 4th century CE, Rome had 290 granaries and warehouses and 254 bakeries which were regulated and monitored by the state and given privileges to ensure their cooperation.\n\nThe population of the city of Rome was at its peaked at possibly more than one million people from the late 1st century to the 3rd century CE and thereafter declined by 400 CE to 700,000-800,000, between 400,000 to 500,000 in 452, and thereafter to a population estimated at only 100,000 in 500 CE, declining still further thereafter in the Middle Ages. Due to its \"decreasing population, smaller army, and more land to feed its population,\" Rome did not need many of its watermills, storehouses, bakeries, and port and transportation facilities. Writing in the early 6th century, Cassiodorus noted the large decrease in the population and the existence of watermills. \"The vast numbers of the Roman people in old time are evidenced by the extensive Provinces from which their food supply was drawn ...and the enormous multitude of mills, which could only have been made for use, not for ornament.\"\n\nThe date when the Cura Annoae ended is unknown, but it may have lasted into the 6th century CE. In 500 CE, the Ostrogoth king Theodoric the Great visited Rome and promised food to its inhabitants, possibly restoring the Cura Annonae or continuing it. In 537 CE, the Byzantine General Belisarius and his army were besieged inside Rome by the Ostrogoths. The Goths blocked the aqueduct providing water for the watermills, thus limiting the capacity of Rome to make flour. Belisarius set up a ship mill on the Tiber River to grind grain and continue to provide the occupants of the city with bread.\n\nThroughout most of the Republican era, the care of the grain supply \"(cura annonae)\" was part of the aedile's duties. The \"annona\" was personified as a goddess, and the grain dole was distributed from the Temple of Ceres. As early as 440 BC, however, the Roman Senate may have appointed a special officer called the \"praefectus annonae\" with greatly extended powers. An emergency \"cura annonae\" was an important source of influence and power for Pompey in his later career. Under the Principate, the position of \"praefectus annonae\" became permanent, while a range of privileges, including grants of citizenship and exemption from certain duties, were extended to ship-owners who signed contracts to transport grain to the city.\n\nA large part of the city's supply was obtained through the free market. Prices in the city were invariably high, and merchants could count on making a profit. Grain was also collected as tax in kind from certain provinces; some of this was distributed to officials and soldiers and some was sold at market rates.\n\nGrain supply was an important issue for the Gracchi, with the elder brother Tiberius Gracchus arguing that consolidation of Roman agricultural lands in the hands of a few had pushed landless Romans into the city, where they found poverty rather than employment. The grain supply was a consistent plank in the popularist platform for political leaders who appealed to the \"plebs\". But the unpopularity of these laws led to more conservative laws attempting to rein in the \"Gracchi\" reforms such as the \"lex Octavia\" and the \"lex Terentia Cassia\".\n\nThe price of grain became a major issue when the Roman province of Sicily revolted repeatedly, thus pushing the price to unaffordable levels. Lowering grain prices became an important part of the political platform of the radical popularist Saturninus, who acquired the office of plebeian tribune an unusual three times.\n\nThe official responsible for the provision of the \"alimenta\" was the \"Curator alimentorum\". During the empire, this post became an important bureaucratic position to be filled by the senatorial elite prior to achieving a consulship. The last known official to hold this post was Titus Flavius Postumius Quietus, probably during the early 270s.\n\nLater emperors all used free or greatly subsidized grain to keep the populace fed. The political use of the grain supply along with gladiatorial games and other entertainments gave rise to the saying \"Bread and circuses\" from one of the bitter satires of Juvenal (60-140 A.D) as if the population of the city did nothing but live off free grain and go to entertainments (circus races were actually held on average only 17 days a year and gladiatorial shows 5-7 days in a year). The machinery of the Annona civilis became more complex over time.\n\nWith the devaluation of currency in the course of the third century, the army was paid in rationed supplies (\"annonae\") as well as in specie from the later third century, through a cumbrous administration of collection and redistribution. The role of the state in distributing the \"annona\" remained a central feature of its unity and power: \"the cessation of this state function in the fifth century was a major factor leading to economic fragmentation, as was the end of the grain requisition for the city of Rome\"\n\n"}
{"id": "53452982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53452982", "title": "Denk (political party)", "text": "Denk (political party)\n\nDenk (; Dutch for \"think\" and Turkish for \"equality\", self-styled as DENK) is a political party in the Netherlands.\n\nIt was founded by Tunahan Kuzu and Selçuk Öztürk, two Turkish-Dutch members of the House of Representatives, after leaving the Labour Party on 13 November 2014. On 9 February 2015, they gave their parliamentary group the name Denk and published a political manifesto for the establishment of a movement for migrants and a \"tolerant and solidary society\" which, among other things, calls for a \"racism registry\".\n\nIn the 2017 parliamentary election, Denk secured three seats, ensuring that Kuzu, and Öztürk would remain in parliament. The third seat is occupied by Farid Azarkan.\n\nThe movement drew up a political manifesto in February 2015, from which the political party Thinking Netherlands (Denk) emerged in November 2016.\n\nThe Denk programme argues for the following five points:\n\nThe movement wants to establish a monument in memory of labour, and they want knowledge of migration history as a key target in education. They propose that the term \"integration\" should be replaced by the word \"acceptance\". The movement would abolish the term \"immigrant\". It notes that people with a non-western background are less likely to find a job or internship and often have negative experiences with law enforcement. The manifesto states that racism in the Netherlands is structural and institutional in nature and therefore wants a so-called \"racism registry\" to be set up, in which manifestations of racism are registered.\n\nThe movement proposes that in education, diversity in the classroom is commensurate with the diversity of the class (including the teacher). The movement has a policy that in every school in the Netherlands, both in primary and secondary education, study of Chinese, Arabic, and Turkish must be introduced as optional subjects. According to the movement, education in these languages will be useful for the country's economy and international relations. According to the manifesto, imams should not only be appointed to mosques, but also in health care, prisons and the armed forces.\n\nDenk's view is that the United Nations and its Security Council need fundamental reform and that the European Union should pursue an independent foreign policy. The movement wants to tackle Islamic extremism by tackling its root causes, which, according to the party, consist of hopelessness, social exclusion, and injustice. On the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, the party advocates that Europe strengthen the international position of Palestine and that the Netherlands recognises the State of Palestine.\n\nThe party's program for the 2017 Dutch parliamentary elections, in the context of the Armenian genocide, mourns both the Turkish and the Armenian sides, while calling for an \"independent international investigation\". Denk claims that there is no consensus regarding the scale and cause of the tragedy, and calls for \"reason and unification\". Within that framework, the party does not use the term genocide.\n\nThe two leaders and founders of the party have been criticised for being \"closely linked to the AKP\" of Turkish leader Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, and \"do not criticize Erdogan and Turkish government policies.\" The party was the sole party in the Netherlands that did not call for the release of a Turkish-Dutch blogger who was arrested for a tweet about Erdoğan. The party has also been heavily criticised for refusing to distance itself from the purges in Turkey since 2016.\n\n\"NRC Handelsblad\" reported in February 2017 that Denk was using fake social media profiles in order to influence public opinion. In response, Denk released a video on their Facebook page in which Kuzu and Azarkan downplayed the allegations, questioned the motives of NRC Handelsblad, and suggested that other parties make greater use of fake social media accounts. A few days later, authorised party leader Kuzu acknowledged that there had been some internet trolls from the youth department of DENK who would be called to account for their behaviour. Some days after, Kuzu also called Azarkan to account for his role in the use of fake social media accounts.\n\nThe Diyanet has allowed Denk to spread its propaganda in mosques under its control (in 2018, these were 146) located in the Netherlands.\n"}
{"id": "1906015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906015", "title": "Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania – Christian Families Alliance", "text": "Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania – Christian Families Alliance\n\nElectoral Action of Poles in Lithuania – Christian Families Alliance or EAPL–CFA ( or LLRA–KŠS; or AWPL–ZCHR) is a political party in Lithuania. It represents the Polish minority and positions itself as Christian-democratic. It has 8 seats in the Seimas, one seat in the European Parliament, and 11 seats in coalition with the Russian Alliance in the Vilnius City Municipality.\n\nFormed in 1994 from the political wing of the Association of Poles in Lithuania, LLRA experienced a surge in support in the 2000s, under the leadership of Valdemar Tomaševski. It increased its representation from under 2% in 2000, leading to the party being invited to join the governing coalition: an invitation they rejected. They increased their vote again to 3.8% in 2004 and 4.8% in 2008: just short of the 5% election threshold for any of the Seimas's 70 proportional representation seats. In the 2009 European election, they won 8.2% and one seat. The party's vote is concentrated in the south-east of the country, around the capital, where the Polish minority is located. At the 2012 election, LLRA broke through 5% in a parliamentary election for the first time: qualifying for proportional representation seats.\n\nIn the Seimas, the party sits with fellow centre-right party Order and Justice. LLRA's MEP (its leader Valdemar Tomaševski) sits in the European Parliament with the European Conservatives and Reformists, which includes the Polish Law and Justice and Poland Comes First, and the party is a member of the ACRE.\n\nAt the beginning of 1994 the law on social organisations was adopted. According to this law, social organisations had to transform into political parties or simply remain social organizations. Till that time the Association of Poles in Lithuania (LLA) was a public-political organisation. Thus it had the option to act both in social and political spheres. The Polish community which did not have its own party faced the difficult task of keeping the Association and simultaneously enabling its participation in the political life of Lithuania at the same time. The creation of the party required a lot of organizational effort. In this situation the central administration of the LLA convened the 5th Extraordinary Conference of the LLA on 14 August. During the Conference the decision was adopted to transform the APL into a social organisation and support the efforts of the group initiating the establishment of a party set up under the name of the Electoral Action of the LLA. Finally, on 23 October after pressure from the Lithuanian Ministry of Justice to remove the word ‘Union’ from the name of the party, it was registered as the Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania (LLRA). During the Founding Conference of 1994 and 1997 Jan Senkevič was elected as LLRA leader. In 1999 during the 3rd LLRA Conference Valdemar Tomaševski became the chairman of the organisation. Moreover, Tomaševski was elected as leader in the 4th and 5th LLRA Conferences.\n\nThe LLRA takes part in various elections – starting with municipal through parliamentary and ending with the elections to the European Parliament in 2004. During the whole period of its existence the LLRA took part in defense of the interests of the Polish minority in Lithuania. The Union of the Russians of Lithuania had cooperated with the LLRA in elections, running within a common list in 2004.\n\nIn 2016, Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania changed its name to Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania – Christian Families Alliance.\n\nThe party's primary aim is not ideological, but the protection and enhancement of the rights of the Polish minority, who make up 7% of Lithuania's population. Their main policies include the restoration of land seized from Poles by the Soviet government, the improvement of the education system and allowing the use of the Polish language in schools, and giving official recognition to the Polish orthography of names.\n\nIt supports a more influential political role for the Roman Catholic Church, mandatory religious education in schools, and a reduction in the number of Lithuanian parliamentarians from 141 to 101 coupled to an increase in the number of local councillors. Since 2005, it unsuccessfully tried to submit bills to penalize abortion.\n\nLLRA is a member of the Europe-wide anti-federalist Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists (AECR), along with both Law and Justice and Poland Comes First from Poland. It is also member of the AECR's associated political grouping, the European Conservatives and Reformists, having resisted intensive lobbying from the Polish Civic Platform to join the EPP group, to which Civic Platform belong and to which LLRA had been considered likely to join. Its youth wing belongs to the European Young Conservatives.\n\nThe party currently sits with fellow centre-right party Order and Justice in the Seimas. They have agreed an electoral alliance with the Lithuanian Russian Union.\n\nBelow are charts of the results that the Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania (and the Association of Poles in Lithuania in 1992) has secured in the Seimas at each election. Timelines showing the number of seats and percentage of votes won are on the right.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19804030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19804030", "title": "Ethyl cellulose", "text": "Ethyl cellulose\n\nEthyl cellulose is a derivative of cellulose in which some of the hydroxyl groups on the repeating glucose units are converted into ethyl ether groups. The number of ethyl groups can vary depending on the manufacturer.\n\nIt is mainly used as a thin-film coating material for coating paper, vitamin and medical pills, and for thickeners in cosmetics and in industrial processes.\n\nFood grade ethyl cellulose is one of few non-toxic films and thickeners which are not water soluble. This property allows it to be used to safeguard ingredients from water.\n\nEthyl cellulose is also used as a food additive as an emulsifier (E462).\n\n"}
{"id": "54672179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54672179", "title": "Food deserts by country", "text": "Food deserts by country\n\nThis is a list of food desert issues and solutions by country.\n\nAfrican food deserts are complex due to accelerated urbanization, the various ways individuals acquire food through formal and informal food economy markets, familial dynamics of the household, and African social, political and economic effects. African food deserts have been defined as \"poor, often informal, urban neighborhoods characterized by high food insecurity and low dietary diversity, with multiple markets and market and non-market food sources but variable household access to food.\"\n\nThe definition of a food desert often relates to the distance between residents and the nearest supermarket. In Western nations, supermarkets prevail over traders and vendors but food sourcing methods within Africa are reversed. Certain regions have an informal economy where traders and vendors are available within the areas they live and other local areas. Urban agriculture also plays a big role within Africa as pastoralism is widely practiced – populations raise their own livestock and grow their own food creating informal rural-urban food transfer systems. These practices vary throughout Africa but do not increase food security and limits community resources to create a food desert. Low-income populations are still more inclined to source food in these ways, however supermarket growth in both urban and rural areas is cutting off these food sourcing methods and worsening food security.\n\nAccordingly, households within the same food desert source food differently. Most neighborhoods have a mix of various income levels. Those with higher incomes have better access to transportation and are more likely to shop at the nearest grocery store. Lower income households tend to stick to sourcing food from local vendors with more limited operating hours or through pastoralism. The African Food Security Urban Network (AFSUN) found that nearly 70% of poor urban African households sourced part of their food needs from vendors and traders and 79% of these households utilized a supermarket. When these studies took frequency into account, it was found that poor Africans use informal vendors more often for most of their needs and go to supermarkets to buy large quantities of a staple.\n\nWith economic growth contributing to the building of supermarkets and other urban renewal practices, land space is taken from pastoral communities that grow and harvest their own food and reduces the resources vendors use to attain the products they sell, limiting their business practices and giving rise to food deserts in Africa. Modern food systems in towns and cities are coming about rapidly changing and destabilizing the already high food insecurity practices already in place.\n\nThe AFSUN survey results indicate a wide variety of factors, such as gender, income, and education affect access to nutritious food. Households headed by a man have greater access to food than those headed by a woman. This is due to various socio-political towards women that do not affect modern, Western women who have more access to financial opportunities. In Africa, female heads of households are twice as likely to be food insecure than men. Women have less mobility within Africa and thus rely more on less secure food sourcing practices.\n\nAfrican cities suffer from a large degree of fragmentation which leads to the poor having to utilize public transportation to travel large distances, spending up to 3 hours a day in transit. With much of the day wasted in transit, poor Africans have less time to spend on shopping or preparing food which forces them to buy more expensive, less nutritious, already prepared foods from either street vendors or restaurants. This fragmentation and mobility also leads to many poor Africans shopping for groceries in places outside their township. A study in Soweto, Johannesburg in 2004 showed most urban poor spend about 50% of their expenses in places outside of the towns in which they reside.\n\nThe 1995 Income and Expenditure Survey conducted in South Africa assessed an urban food insecurity rate of 27 percent, relative to the rural rate of 62 percent. Later studies such as the National Food Consumption Survey of 1999 and South African Social Attitudes Survey of 2008 independently assessed the urban food insecurity rate to be roughly half of that of the rural rate.\n\nA 2000 survey conducted on rural Eastern Cape, rural Western Cape and urban Cape Town assessed food insecurity to be 83, 69, and 81 percent, respectively. This survey took into account other urban African factors than distribution of market retailers such as supermarkets to include the tendency of residents to utilize formal food sources over informal like agriculture and local markets.\n\nIn Australia jobs are organized into low or high class using Australian and New Zealand Standard Classification of Occupations (ANZSCO) which considers skills,education,and experience to place the job.The location of food deserts are put into areas where peoples jobs and income are considered on the low side of the spectrum. In Western Australia, a dearth of high quality and affordable fruit and vegetables in isolated regions was identified as one factor limiting consumption along with produce seasonality. A 2014 review found that the less populous and very remote areas of the state had fewer grocery stores and higher prices for fruit, vegetables and dairy than in the city. Economically it is reported that in areas with low income families would have to spend 56% of their income of just buying healthy food for their families. lack or availability to fresher food leads to unhealthy food consumption resulting in what is described as a \"obesogenic\" neighborhood which simply means that the environments food surroundings do not support healthy eating. Of these stores, 20% did not generally supply produce that met all quality standards with a few exceptions, unlike urban areas with exceptions for lettuce and green beans in Perth. Geographical data were not analyzed for prevalence of low income residents to define areas as food deserts.\n\nA five-year campaign to increase access to healthy foods started in 1990 and led by the Department of Health in Western Australia and industry groups had mixed success. By also creating community programs that provide food and transport services to families that live the the 1,600 meter radius away from a grocery store. And also focusing on prevention of diabetes and diabetes management. The minor health effects that can come from not having sustainable food options can be childhood obesity and even health issues like asthma.Although long term health effects can come from the minor health problems like heart disease caused from the obesity and type 2 diabetes. And if these bad habits continue unchanged a person effected by these disease could die prematurely. The department later developed a new private/public partnership to address access and consumption of fruit and vegetables. A 2008 audit found some progress generated as a result in incentive's fruit and vegetable access, but no headway in identifying and addressing any supply issues in development planning or elucidating cost, quality and access issues for remote, rural and urban areas.\n\n\"European (non-UK) food access research also frequently highlights the problem of poverty in relation to accessing a healthy diet.\" French researches have noted that lower income consumers have a tendency to reach for more affordable items such as high caloric foods, (i.e. cereals, sweets, and added fats) instead of nutrient rich single source foods.\n\nBritish food deserts can be broadly classified into twelve geographical types, based on the interaction of socioeconomic factors of physical access to shops, financial access (affordability of) healthy food, and attitudes towards consumption of healthy food, the desire to consume it rather than fast / convenience food, possession of cooking skills, that is, psychological access. These twelve neighbourhood types are 1) inner city executive flat areas (too fast lifestyle to cook healthily), 2) inner city ethnic minority areas (cost of food vs low wages), 3) inner city deprived areas severed by main roads from retail areas (poor physical access), 4) declining suburban areas (shops closing, poor physical access to supermarkets), 5) planned local authority housing areas (low income, and shops often lack fresh produce), 6) student residence areas (preference for fast food outlets, little demand for fresh produce), 7) Wealthy suburban areas, most shop by car, but some less mobile pensioners with no car. Areas 8 – 12 are rural food deserts. 8) is small market town centres losing trade to out-of-town supermarkets, leaving the car-less without easy access, 9) market town suburbs, poor bus service to centre perhaps 1 or 2 miles (2 – 3 kilometres) distant, 10), smaller rural towns, lack full range of fresh produce, 11) remoter villages, no shop, and under-served by mobile shops, 12) dispersed settlements, no focal point for shop.\n\nFurey et al. describes food desert creation as arising where \"high competition from large chain supermarkets has created a void\".\n\nFood deserts are defined by a shortage of supermarkets and other stores that carry affordable healthful food. Audit research suggests that supermarkets are the most effective way to supply communities with a wide selection of fresh and relatively affordable healthful food. Moreover, they are typically open year-round, provide convenient hours of operation and generally accept food stamps from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC). Small-scale, full-service food markets could play a role in increasing community food security.\n\nCompared to residents of higher-income neighborhoods, low socioeconomic status (SES) individuals tend to have diets higher in meat and processed foods and a lower intake of fruits and vegetables. They are more likely to purchase inexpensive fats and sugars over fresh fruits and vegetables that are more expensive on a per calorie basis. On average, the most energy-dense foods only cost $1.76 per 1,000 calories, compared to $18.16 per 1,000 calories for low-energy nutritious foods. This is one reason cited for why low-income populations and minorities are more predisposed to suffer from obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease.\n\nIncome may play a big role in determining the eating habits of families in food deserts. Those impacted by food deserts are typically impoverished, with an average income between $5,000 and $20,000 annually. According to the USDA, \"Research that considers the prices paid for the same food across household income levels indicates that while some of the very poorest households—those earning less than $8,000 per year—may pay between 0.5 percent and 1.3 percent more for their groceries than households earning slightly more, households earning between $8,000 and $30,000 tend to pay the lowest prices for groceries, whereas higher income households pay significantly higher prices.\"\nChain supermarkets benefit from economies of scale to offer consumers low prices, but are less prevalent in low-income urban areas. In the United States, the number of supermarkets in low income neighborhoods is approximately 30% less than in the highest-income neighborhoods. Within cities, three times as many supermarkets are in wealthier neighborhoods than poorer ones. \"Economies of scale, which is when the costs of operating a store decrease as store size increases, and economies of scope, which is when the costs decrease as more product variety increases, suggests that larger stores that offer greater variety can do so and offer lower prices. Both factors may account for the ability of larger stores to survive more easily than smaller stores.\" A 2008 book noted that 22% of the chain supermarkets in Minneapolis were located in the inner city compared to more than 50% of the non-chain stores. In the end, a 1990 U.S. government report found that people in urban areas pay 3 to 37 percent more for the same groceries locally than they would in a suburban supermarket.\n\nIn the absence of other grocery outlets, residents in low-income urban areas are often \"forced to depend on small stores with limited selections of foods at substantially higher prices\". Fringe food retailers have market power to increase prices (around 30-60%) off a limited product selection dominated by processed foods. Research finds \"retail prices for the same foods to be higher in deprived areas\" that have a dearth of supermarkets and food stores. Findings from the USDA support that prices for similar goods are on average higher at convenience stores than at supermarkets. As a result, people of low SES ultimately spend up to 37% more on their food purchases.\n\nSmaller communities have fewer choices in food retailers. Resident small grocers struggle to be profitable partly due to low sales numbers, which make it difficult to meet wholesale food suppliers' minimum purchasing requirements. The lack of competition and sales volume can result in higher food costs. For example, in New Mexico the same basket of groceries that cost rural residents $85, cost urban residents only $55. However, this is not true for all rural areas. A study in Iowa showed that grocers in four rural counties had lower costs on key foods that make up a nutritionally balanced diet than did larger supermarkets outside these food deserts (greater than 20 miles away).\n\nGrocery stores in low income communities have less variety. Small rural grocers and stores in areas where consumers are less interested in buying produce will carry less fruits and vegetables because they are more expensive compared to processed foods, especially in food deserts. This relates to the problem of \"food swamps\", regions that lack healthy and nutritious food choices. Even when healthy foods are available, they may not be affordable for many residents in poorer communities. Higher prices on healthy food than unhealthy potentially affects obesity rates.\n\nIn a study on urban food environments, participants described the lack of supermarkets as a \"practical impediment to healthful food purchase and a symbol of their neighborhoods' social and economic struggles\".\n\nThere are diet and health implications for those who live in areas where nutritious food is not readily available; some claims, such as linking food deserts with obesity in children, are disputed.\n\nA summary report by The Colorado Health Foundation concluded that individuals with access to supermarkets tend to have healthier diets and a lower risk of chronic disease such as diabetes. Food deserts are correlated with many poor health outcomes. Other studies find a link between better access to supermarkets and lowered risk of obesity. As well, better access to convenience stores is associated with a higher risk of obesity.\n\nStudies show that food insecurity can impact the health of elderly adults including lower BMI, limited activity and malnutrition. An elderly person without consistent access to enough fruits and vegetables and the proper variety of nutrients are at higher risk for health problems and future ailments.\n\nA 2010 study inversely correlated distance from supermarkets and decreased availability of healthy foods with increases in body mass index and risk of obesity. Among elderly people in particular, malnutrition caused by inadequate access to food can lead to other health risks. For those suffering from weight loss and undernutrition, risks include increased and longer hospitalizations, early admission to long term care facilities, and overall increased morbidity and mortality. Nutritional disorders with co-morbidities are the ninth most frequent diagnostic category among hospitalized rural elderly Medicare beneficiaries. Elderly adults struggling with obesity and overnutrition related to limited food choices are at risk of exacerbating existing chronic conditions, such as heart disease and diabetes, and increased functional decline.\n\nWhile correlations have been found, the causal pathways are complex and not fully understood. Most studies on food environments and health are cross-sectional and thus cannot make causal conclusions. Improvements in research are needed before causal relationships can be explicitly defined.\n\nAccording to 2010 reports from the USDA, approximately 29.7 million people (9.7% of the population) live in low-income areas that are more than 1 mile from a supermarket. Often the only close places for residents to purchase food are convenience stores or corner shops. A 2005 study utilizing GIS determined that among the most impoverished neighborhoods in Detroit, African American ones were on average 1.1 miles farther from the nearest supermarket than white ones and 28% of their residents did not own a car.\n\nUrban areas usually have private and public transportation such as buses and trains available, but rural areas typically offer little to no public transportation even though the grocery stores are far from home.\n\nAccording to The Reinvestment Fund (TRF) and Low Supermarket Access areas (TRF 2012), the density of car ownerships is much lower in poorer communities. Accessing healthy foods then becomes more difficult without reliable transportation. The Food Access Research Atlas (ERS 2013) maps out the measurement of food access in both low- and high-income communities. Under this measure, they point out the significance of number of cars within and a number of supermarkets in the area.\n\nAnd so, many people in low-income neighborhoods may spend more on transportation to bring their groceries home. The Colorado Health Foundation found that taxi cab drivers make more trips to grocery stores at the beginning of the month when food stamps are distributed and at the end of the month before they expire. Fortunately, vehicle availability has improved over the past couple of decades has been helping disadvantaged residents overcome economic barriers and food access barriers in both rural and urban food deserts.\n\nAs of 2007, the elderly made up 7.5 million of the 50 million people living in rural America. The U.S Census website includes maps showing the percentage of residents aged 65 and older. Of these elderly citizens, nearly a half million live in rural food deserts and are food insecure, while many more may be at risk. A study by Sharkey, et al. from seniors in the Brazos Valley showed that 14% couldn't make their monthly allotment of food supplies last, 13% couldn't eat balanced meals and 8.3% had to make their meals smaller or skip them.\n\nElders are particularly affected by the obstacle of distance presented by rural food deserts. A survey by the interest group and insurer AARP reported that at age 75 and older, 83% of men and 60% of women still drive, down from 93% and 84% respectively at age 65 and lower than the 78% and 80% of the next lowest group, 16-24 year-olds. A lack of decent public transportation services in rural areas can therefore make it harder for elderly to shop. As a result, it is 9.6% more probable that elders without a car living in a food desert will skip meals than those with one. Because of their lack of access to vehicles, older people are more likely to be dependent on those in their community to get food.\n\nHealth disparities related to food access and consumption are associated with residential segregation, low incomes, and neighborhood deprivation. Morland \"et al.\" found that areas with a majority of convenience stores had a higher prevalence of overweight and obese individuals compared to areas with only supermarkets. A lack of adequate food sources and limited transportation available to low-income communities may contribute to poor nutrition.\n\nResearch has documented differences in supermarket access between poor and non-poor urban areas. Baker \"et al.\" found that mixed-race areas were significantly less likely to have access to foods that adhere to a healthful diet compared to predominantly white, high income areas. Research by Mari Gallagher found African Americans to be farther from healthful foods than other racial groups. Supermarkets in African American neighborhoods are just 52% as prevalent as in white neighborhoods. Moreover, a review of food-frequency data in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities study revealed that dominantly white populations had five times more supermarkets than neighborhoods that were dominantly non-white. African Americans who lived in the same census tract with supermarket access were more likely to meet dietary guidelines for fruit and vegetable consumption. Each additional supermarket increased fruit and vegetable intake by 32%.\n\nA 2010 study analyzed data from the Centers for Disease Control and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to assess the health outcomes of women participating in SNAP and the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program. The study primarily critically assessed the structure of current social welfare policies, but noted that 25% of food stamp program participants lack easy access to a supermarket.\n\nA 2008 report claimed that in the Chicago metropolitan area, African-American neighborhoods lack independent and chain supermarkets unlike Hispanic communities, although none are full-service chains. However, between 2005–2007, more discount stores did move into African-American communities. Hispanic communities in food deserts have targeted Hispanic food markets.\n\nThe USDA released an extensive report to Congress in 2009 as a request to reform the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008. Study recommendations for addressing access issues in food deserts included the above options as well as transportation reforms. Where growing vehicle availability is insufficient, better public transportation in rural food deserts or promoting safe walking and biking environments in urban areas may help. Proposed solutions include utilizing a combination of public and private resources. Current transit assistance and meal-provisioning programs that are already established in many communities, such Meals on Wheels, have initiatives that focus on providing food residents with limited mobility and ability to shop at traditional food retailers.\n\nState and local governments are implementing public-private partnerships that use a combination of financing initiatives and community-level interventions to target areas with lower healthy food access. The progenitor program was Pennsylvania's Fresh Food Financing Initiative, a public-private partnership started in 2004 with state seed funds. Success of the initiative led to the creation of similar programs in at least seven states and cities, like the New York City Food Retail Expansion to Support Health (FRESH) program. In early 2010 the Obama administration unveiled the related Healthy Food Financing Initiative.\n\nUniversities have coordinated with local business and community leaders to solve food scarcity issues. In 2008, La Salle University and The Fresh Grocer teamed up to open a grocery store in Germantown, Philadelphia. The Germantown neighborhood was plagued with a decades-long food desert, but thanks to a coordination between two enterprises, the Fresh Grocer was able to provide more than 250 jobs to Philadelphians and provide healthy food.\n\nFamilies often work together and develop a network of sharing to exchange clothing, provide childcare, sell personal possessions, and share transportation resources and even housing. People living in food deserts often use this approach to feed their families.\n\nFoodshed planning is an integral part of policy for not only New York, but other cities such as Chicago, Toronto and Cincinnati.\n\nSome food movements hold that locally grown food at farmers' markets is superior to that typically in supermarkets. However, these markets are often too costly for the budget-conscious. Government programs like SNAP and WIC often in partnership with nonprofit organizations subsidize low-income individuals to purchase produce from farmers' markets.\n\nIn rural Bertie County, the poorest county in North Carolina, community members in conjunction with a public high school class designed and constructed a pavilion to serve as a home for a local farmers' market.\n\nCommunity involvement and the incorporation of local organizations and volunteerism can improve the effectiveness of food safety nets and alternative solutions such as community gardens (\"e.g.\", see Urban agriculture in West Oakland).\n\nInternet delivery options overcome distance barriers in food deserts with meal kit services and online shopping for fresh groceries from retailers and food cooperatives.\n\nState and federal agencies in New York created a program to allow food stamp recipients the option to purchase healthful foods online for home delivery. In the fall of 2016 this pilot program was launched in conjunction with an established food delivery company, FreshDirect, for two zip codes in the Bronx. The hope is that online food delivery can eliminate food deserts.\n\nResearch suggests that food deserts are not the real problem, eating habits are. Indeed, one study found that 89.3% of people in a community were either \"highly interested\" or \"interested\" in education on preparing healthier food options. Avenues to increase education and outreach about diet and health by the federal government include the SNAP Education (SNAP-Ed) and Expanded Food and Nutrition Education Program (EFNEP).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26778582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26778582", "title": "Foreign area officer", "text": "Foreign area officer\n\nA foreign area officer (FAO) is a commissioned officer from any of the five branches of the United States Armed Forces who is a regionally focused expert in political-military operations. Such officers possess a unique combination of strategic focus and regional expertise, with political, cultural, sociological, economic, and geographic awareness. Foreign language proficiency is an unequivocal necessity in at least one of the dominant languages in their specified region. \n\nA FAO will typically serve overseas tours as a defense attaché, a security assistance officer, or as a political-military planner in a service's headquarters, Joint Staff, Major Commands, Unified Combatant Commands, or in agencies of the Department of Defense. They also serve as arms control specialists, country desk officers, liaison officers, and Military Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP) officer to host nation or coalition allies. Recently, increasing numbers of FAOs are serving as political and cultural advisors to combatant staffs in support of the Iraq War and War in Afghanistan. Presently, there are just over 2,200 FAOs in active operational capacities, while roughly 25 percent are still in training. The services plan to recruit and train more than 170 a year, with almost 1,100 new FAOs entering the program by 2014.\n\nRoles and responsibilities of FAOs are extensive and varied. They advise senior leaders on political-military operations and relations with other nations, provide cultural expertise to forward-deployed commands conducting military operations, build and maintain long-term relationships with foreign leaders, develop and coordinate security cooperation, execute security assistance programs with host nations, and develop reports on diplomatic, information, military, and economic activities.\n\nThe Army Foreign Area Officer Program (Functional area 48) is a single-track FAO program managed by G-35, SSF, which is the Strategic Leadership Division. It is by far the largest and oldest FAO program of the Services. The Proponent Office is responsible for establishing policy guidance and FAO career field development as well as establishing specific programs focused on the accession, training, education, distribution, utilization, deployment, and separation of FAOs. Currently, there are 1,257 Army FAOs either in training or fully qualified. \n\nArmy FAOs are categorized by areas of concentration that correspond with their respective military occupational specialty, further grouped in scope by functional areas. Army FAOs are divided into nine categories of regional areas of expertise and language skills:\n\nThe International Affairs Officer Program replaced the FAO and International Relations Officer Program in the Marine Corps in 2000, which is an umbrella program that governs two separate, but interrelated military occupational specialty: the Foreign Area Officer (994x) and the Regional Affairs Officer (982x) designations. Much like the USAF dual-track system, RAOs are basically FAOs without local language skills. There are approximately 280 FAOs and 80 RAOs in the Marine Corps, distributed amongst the following specialties:\n\nThe Navy FAO Branch is a restricted line community of the Navy. The Navy has approximately 350 FAOs either fully qualified or in training. The community is expected to achieve 400 officers by 2019. As with the Army, the Navy has a single-track system, where officers from other Navy communities transfer over to Foreign Area Officer permanently. Navy FAOs are assigned the 1710 designator. \n\nNavy FAOs are apportioned amongst the five regional Unified Combatant Commands:\n\nThe International Affairs Specialist Program is the Air Force component, and encompasses two officer types: the Regional Affairs Strategist and Political-Military Affairs Strategist. Both tracks remain under the Air Force Specialty Code 16: 16F for RAS and 16P for PAS. PAS development begins in conjunction with Intermediate Developmental Education, and officers serve in similar positions as RAS officers do, but perform duties that require a broad knowledge of political-military affairs rather than regional expertise with foreign language skills. RAS officers are distributed amongst the following subcategories:\n\nAcceptance into the FAO programs typically requires at least 7–10 years of commissioned service, since most FAO positions are designated for that of a field-grade officer (Marines being the exception, who only require 3 years). The FAO accession process is lengthy process and requires meticulous review of every candidate applying. While all DoD branches are in the process of expanding their FAO (or FAO equivalent) Programs, FAO accession remains one of the most highly competitive processes of the US military. On average, more than eight candidates compete for every single FAO slot available. Generally speaking, applicants must have at a minimum the following:\n\nFAO training varies amongst all four DoD branches, but usually takes a minimum of 3–5 years before FAOs can utilize their skills in an operational capacity, depending upon the qualifications of the candidate at the time of accession.\n\nA long road exists between accession and full FAO qualification. It takes between 3–5 years of training, education, and actual FAO tour performance before FAO trainees are ever even considered for full designation and qualification as an FAO. Standard requirements of fully qualified FAOs generally include the following:\n\nThe Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness is the proponent for FAO programs for the DoD. He or she establishes DoD accession, education, and utilization policy for Foreign Area Officers. FAO guidance, directives, and standards for all military branch FAO programs are promulgated by DoD Directive 1315.17. The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy and the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence oversees FAO capabilities, needs, and utilization in the DoD Agencies that they respectively supervise. For combat support activities, such oversight is conducted in conjunction with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.\n\nThe Defense Language Office ensures a strategic focus on meeting present and future requirements for language and regional expertise, among military and civilian employees. This office's main responsibilities are to oversee and manage the implementation of a comprehensive Department-wide Language Transformation Roadmap; identify policy, procedural, and resource needs associated with providing needed language capability; oversee policy regarding the development, management, and utilization of civilian employees and members of the Armed Forces; and conduct research and analyze studies, reports, and lessons learned from the Global War on Terrorism and current military operations as they pertain to language and regional area expertise.\n\nWhile promotion levels vary between the branches, retention rates of FAOs are higher than service averages. The bulk of the FAO community is primarily composed of field grade officers, though general and flag officers include General John Abizaid, Lieutenant General Christopher G. Cavoli, Lieutenant General Karl Eikenberry, Lieutenant General Keith Dayton, Major General Charles Hooper, Major General Robin Fontes, Brigadier General Richard M. Lake, Brigadier General Henry Nowak, Brigadier General Mark O’Neill, Brigadier General Kevin Ryan, Brigadier General John Adams, and Rear Admiral Douglas Venlet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "456526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=456526", "title": "Francs-tireurs", "text": "Francs-tireurs\n\nIt is sometimes used to refer more generally to guerrilla fighters who operate outside the laws of war.\n\nDuring the wars of the French Revolution, a was a member of a corps of light infantry organized separately from the regular army. The Spanish word and the Portuguese word , meaning sharpshooter or sniper, are derived from the word .\n\nFrancs-tireurs were an outgrowth of rifle clubs or unofficial military societies formed in the east of France at the time of the Luxembourg crisis of 1867. The members were chiefly concerned with the practice of rifle-shooting. In case of war, they were expected to act as militia or light troops. They wore no uniforms, but they armed themselves with the best existing rifles, and elected their own officers.\n\nThe 1911 \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" described them as \"at once a valuable asset to the armed strength of France and a possible menace to internal order under military discipline.\" The societies strenuously and effectively resisted all efforts to bring them under normal military discipline.\n\nIn July 1870, at the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War, the French Minister of War assumed control over the societies to organize them for field service. It was not until 4 November, by which time the (universal conscription) was in force, that the militias were placed under the orders of the generals in the field. They were sometimes organized in large bodies and incorporated in the mass of the armies, but more usually they continued to work in small bands, blowing up culverts on the invaders' lines of communication, cutting off small reconnaissance parties, surprising small posts, etc.\n\nThe 1911 \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" describes it as \"now acknowledged, even by the Germans\", that the , by these relatively unconventional tactics, \"paralysed large detachments of the enemy, contested every step of his advance (as in the Loire campaign), and prevented him from gaining information, and that their soldierly qualities improved with experience.\"\n\nThe Germans executed captured as irregular, armed non-combatants, essentially what also came to be called guerrillas or insurgents. The German armies and popular press vilified the as murderers and highwaymen; the insurgents seemed to have a sense of the most vulnerable parts of the German armies in France. The Germans reacted to ambushes with harsh reprisals against the nearest village or town, where they killed civilians. Whole regiments or divisions often took part in \"pacifying actions\" in areas with significant activity; this created a lasting enmity and hatred between the occupying German soldiers and French civilians.\n\nThe experiences of French guerrilla attacks and of the asymmetric warfare during the Franco-Prussian War had a profound effect on the German General Staff. During World War I, they carried out an unusually harsh and severe occupation of areas which they conquered. Hostages were regularly executed in response to reports of sniping in French and Belgian communities. The occupying German forces were reportedly very fearful of spontaneous civil resistance, which led to these arrests and executions, some of which were preemptive or at least before actual violent resistance. Most of the attacks attributed by the German occupiers to Belgian francs-tireurs were actually carried out by Belgian Army snipers.\n\nAfter the war, General Erich Ludendorff, Germany's chief military strategist and its commander-in-chief on the Western Front at the end of the war, tried to defend German behavior in his memoir published in 1919, the two-volume \"Meine Kriegserinnerungen, 1914–1918\". It was published that same year in London by Hutchinson as \"My War Memories, 1914–1918\" and in New York by Harper as \"Ludendorff's Own Story, August 1914 – November 1918\".\n\nIn an article in the 13 September 1919 issue of \"Illustrated London News\", the writer G. K. Chesterton responded to Ludendorff's book by remarking:\n\n\"It is astounding how clumsy Prussians are at this sort of thing. Ludendorff cannot be a fool, at any rate, at his own trade; for his military measures were often very effective. But without being a fool when he effects his measures, he becomes a most lurid and lamentable fool when he justifies them. For in fact he could not have chosen a more unfortunate example. A franc-tireur is emphatically not a person whose warfare is bound to disgust any soldier. He is emphatically not a type about which a general soldierly spirit feels any bitterness. He is not a perfidious or barbarous or fantastically fiendish foe. On the contrary, a \"franc-tireur\" is generally a man for whom any generous soldier would be sorry, as he would for an honourable prisoner of war. What is a \"franc-tireur\"? A \"franc-tireur\" is a free man, who fights to defend his own farm or family against foreign aggressors, but who does not happen to possess certain badges and articles of clothing catalogued by Prussia in 1870. In other words, a \"franc-tireur\" is you or I or any other healthy man who found himself, when attacked, in accidental possession of a gun or pistol, and not in accidental possession of a particular cap or a particular pair of trousers. The distinction is not a moral distinction at all, but a crude and recent official distinction made by the militarism of Potsdam.\"\n\nTwo major Résistance groups adopted the name during the German occupation of France during the Second World War. The first to be established was the \"Franc-Tireur\" group founded in Lyon in 1940. The second was the (FTP, Partisan irregular riflemen), which were established as the military branch of the French Communist Party (PCF). They only became active in the resistance after the German invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941.\n\nAlthough individual communists had opposed the German occupation of France, the official Communist position was not to offer resistance, as the Soviet Union was in a non-aggression pact with Germany. After the German invasion of the Soviet Union on 22 June 1941, this position changed.\n\nThe PCF initially called their group the (OS); a number of its leaders had served in the International Brigades during the Spanish Civil War (notably, \"Colonel\" Henri Rol-Tanguy).\n\nA number of smaller resistance groups united in the under Pierre Villon, the former editor of the magazine . Their job was four-fold: to destroy rail lines carrying men and materials to the eastern front, sabotage factories working for the Germans, punish traitors and collaborators, and kill the occupying soldiers. \"A librarian called Michel Bernstein became a master forger of false documents.\" And \"France Bloch, a young chemist with two science degrees, who as a Jew had lost her job in the French National Museum of Natural History, was given the job of making explosives.\" Bloch was arrested by the French police and was beheaded by guillotine in Hamburg.\n\nFTP became the first resistance group in France to deliberately kill a German. In February 1944, the FTP agreed to merge with the .\n\nThe foreign workers' section of the FTP, the FTP-MOI (), became especially famous after the Manouchian Group was captured, its members executed, and ten of its members advertised as foreign criminals by the infamous Affiche Rouge. The Manouchian Group operated in the Paris metropolitan area, but other FTP-MOI groups operated in Lyon and the South of France, where they carried out armed resistance. Many of its immigrant members throughout the country were Jewish artists, writers and intellectuals, who had gone to France for the cultural circles in Paris. Others had taken refuge in France to escape Nazi persecution in their home countries. Alter Mojze Goldman, father of Pierre Goldman and Jean-Jacques Goldman, was a member of FTP-MOI, as was the Hungarian photographer, Ervin Marton, who achieved international recognition after the war.\n\nBefore the two world wars, the term was sometimes used for an armed fighter who, if captured, was not necessarily entitled to prisoner of war status. An issue of disagreement at the 1899 Hague Conference, the controversy generated the Martens Clause. The Martens Clause was introduced as a compromise between the Great Powers, who considered \"francs-tireurs\" to be unlawful combatants subject to execution on capture, and smaller states, who maintained that they should be considered lawful combatants.\n\nAfter World War II, during the Hostages Trial, the seventh of the Nuremberg Trials, the tribunal found that, on the question of partisans, according to the then-current laws of war, the partisan fighters in southeast Europe could not be considered lawful belligerents under Article 1 of the Hague Convention. In relation to Wilhelm List, the tribunal stated:\n\nWe are obliged to hold that such guerrillas were francs tireurs who, upon capture, could be subjected to the death penalty. Consequently, no criminal responsibility attaches to the defendant List because of the execution of captured partisans...\n\nThe post-war Geneva Convention established new protocols; according to Article 4 of the Third Geneva Convention of 1949, are entitled to prisoner-of-war status provided that they are commanded by a person responsible for his subordinates, have a fixed distinctive sign recognizable at a distance, carry arms openly, and conduct their operations in accordance with the laws and customs of war.\n\n was the name of an underground French Resistance newspaper published by the group in Lyon by the same name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6199113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6199113", "title": "Galician People's Front", "text": "Galician People's Front\n\nThe Galician People's Front () is a Galician political organization with a socialist and independentist ideology.\n\nAfter the Galician People's Union (UPG) accepted the participation of the Bloque Nacionalista Galego (BNG) in the Galician Parliament in 1986, 13 members of its Central Committee led by Mariano Abalo and Xan Carballo left the party and created the Communist Collective. On 25 July 1986, the group was transformed into the Communist Party of National Liberation (PCLN). Later, the 3rd National Assembly of the BNG expelled the group because they gave support to Herri Batasuna.\n\nIn 1987, the PCLN and Galiza Ceibe-OLN, along with other small organizations, created the FPG. In June 1989, they suffered a split as the sectors that supported the armed struggle of the EGPGC broke away and formed Assembleia do Povo Unido.\n\nIn the Elections for the Galician Parliament 2001, the group obtained 3,176 votes (0.3%), in the Elections for the Spanish Parliament 2004, it obtained 2,257 votes (0.12%), and in the Elections for the Galician Parliament 2005, it obtained 2,982 votes (0.2%).\n\nSince 2012, the FPG is integrated in Anova-Nationalist Brotherhood.\n\n"}
{"id": "4225522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4225522", "title": "Hawkama", "text": "Hawkama\n\nHawkama is the name for the regional institute of corporate governance launched by the Dubai International Financial Centre in cooperation with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OeCD) and other international bodies. The focus of the institute is to provide guidance and assistance to public and private sector in Middle East and Africa to adopt good governance standards.\n\nCapital Concept, a corporate governance advisory company founded in 2005 by Yasser Akkaoui, was instrumental in the establishment of Hawkama.\n\n"}
{"id": "149333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149333", "title": "Indian National Congress", "text": "Indian National Congress\n\nThe Indian National Congress (INC, often called the Congress Party or simply Congress) is a broadly based political party in India. Founded in 1885, it was the first modern nationalist movement to emerge in the British Empire in Asia and Africa. From the late 19th century, and especially after 1920, under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi, Congress became the principal leader of the Indian independence movement. Congress led India to independence from Great Britain, and powerfully influenced other anti-colonial nationalist movements in the British Empire.\n\nCongress is a secular party whose social liberal platform is generally considered to be on the centre-left of Indian politics. Congress' social policy is based upon the Gandhian principle of Sarvodaya—the lifting up of all sections of society—which involves the improvement of the lives of economically underprivileged and socially marginalised people. The party primarily endorses social liberalism—seeking to balance individual liberty and social justice, and secularism—asserting the right to be free from religious rule and teachings.\n\nAfter India's independence in 1947, Congress formed the central government of India, and many regional state governments. Congress became India's dominant political party; , in the 15 general elections since independence, it has won an outright majority on six occasions and has led the ruling coalition a further four times, heading the central government for 49 years. There have been seven Congress Prime Ministers, the first being Jawaharlal Nehru (1947–1964), and the most recent Manmohan Singh (2004–2014). Although it did not fare well in the last general elections in India in 2014, it remains one of two major, nationwide, political parties in India, along with the right-wing, Hindu nationalist, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In the 2014 general election, Congress had its poorest post-independence general election performance, winning only 44 seats of the 543-member Lok Sabha.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2014, the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance, a coalition of several regional parties, formed the Indian government, and was headed by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. The leader of the party during the period, Sonia Gandhi has served the longest term as the president of the party. , the party is in power in four legislative assemblies: Punjab, Mizoram, Karnataka (in an alliance with the JD(S)), and the union territory of Puducherry (in an alliance with the DMK).\n\nThe history of the Indian National Congress (INC) falls into two distinct eras:\n\nThe Indian National Congress conducted its first session in Bombay from 28–31 December 1885 at the initiative of retired Civil Service officer Allan Octavian Hume. In 1883, Hume had outlined his idea for a body representing Indian interests in an open letter to graduates of the University of Calcutta. Its aim was to obtain a greater share in government for educated Indians, and to create a platform for civic and political dialogue between them and the British Raj. Hume took the initiative, and in March 1885 a notice convening the first meeting of the Indian National Union to be held in Poona the following December was issued. Due to a cholera outbreak there, it was moved to Bombay.\n\nHume organised the first meeting in Bombay with the approval of the Viceroy Lord Dufferin. Womesh Chandra Bonnerjee was the first president of Congress; the first session was attended by 72 delegates. Representing each province of India. Notable representatives included Scottish ICS officer William Wedderburn, Dadabhai Naoroji, Pherozeshah Mehta of the Bombay Presidency Association, Ganesh Vasudeo Joshi of the Poona Sarvajanik Sabha, social reformer and newspaper editor Gopal Ganesh Agarkar, Justice K. T. Telang, N. G. Chandavarkar, Dinshaw Wacha, Behramji Malabari, journalist and activist Gooty Kesava Pillai, and P. Rangaiah Naidu of the Madras Mahajana Sabha. This small elite group, unrepresentative of the Indian masses at the time, functioned more as a stage for elite Indian ambitions than a political party for the first decade of its existence.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, Congress' demands became more radical in the face of constant opposition from the British government, and the party decided to advocate in favour of the independence movement because it would allow a new political system in which Congress could be a major party. By 1905, a division opened between the moderates led by Gokhale, who downplayed public agitation, and the new extremists who advocated agitation, and regarded the pursuit of social reform as a distraction from nationalism. Bal Gangadhar Tilak, who tried to mobilise Hindu Indians by appealing to an explicitly Hindu political identity displayed in the annual public Ganapati festivals he inaugurated in western India, was prominent among the extremists.\n\nCongress included a number of prominent political figures. Dadabhai Naoroji, a member of the sister Indian National Association, was elected president of the party in 1886 and was the first Indian Member of Parliament in the British House of Commons (1892–1895). Congress also included Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Bipin Chandra Pal, Lala Lajpat Rai, Gopal Krishna Gokhale, and Mohammed Ali Jinnah. Jinnah was a member of the moderate group in the Congress, favouring Hindu–Muslim unity in achieving self-government. Later he became the leader of the Muslim League and instrumental in the creation of Pakistan. Congress was transformed into a mass movement by Surendranath Banerjee during the partition of Bengal in 1905, and the resultant Swadeshi movement.\n\nMahatma Gandhi returned from South Africa in 1915. With the help of the moderate group led by Ghokhale, Gandhi became president of Congress. After the First World War, the party became associated with Gandhi, who remained its unofficial spiritual leader and icon. He formed an alliance with the Khilafat Movement in 1920 to fight for preservation of the Ottoman Caliphate, and rights for Indians using civil disobedience or \"satyagraha\" as the tool for agitation. In 1923, after the deaths of policemen at Chauri Chaura, Gandhi suspended the agitation. In protest, a number of leaders, Chittaranjan Das, Annie Besant, and Motilal Nehru, resigned to set up the Swaraj Party. The Khilafat movement collapsed and Congress was split.\n\nThe rise of Gandhi's popularity and his \"satyagraha\" art of revolution led to support from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, Khan Mohammad Abbas Khan, Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, Chakravarti Rajgopalachari, Dr. Anugraha Narayan Sinha, Jayaprakash Narayan, Jivatram Kripalani, and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. As a result of prevailing nationalism, Gandhi's popularity, and the party's attempts at eradicating caste differences, untouchability, poverty, and religious and ethnic divisions, Congress became a forceful and dominant group. Although its members were predominantly Hindu, it had members from other religions, economic classes, and ethnic and linguistic groups.\n\nAt the Congress 1929 Lahore session under the presidency of Jawaharlal Nehru, Purna Swaraj (complete independence) was declared as the party's goal, declaring 26 January 1930 as \"Purna Swaraj Diwas\" (Independence Day). The same year, Srinivas Iyenger was expelled from the party for demanding full independence, not just home rule as demanded by Gandhi.\n\nAfter the passage of the Government of India Act of 1935, provincial elections were held in India in the winter of 1936–37 in eleven provinces: Madras, Central Provinces, Bihar, Orissa, United Provinces, Bombay Presidency, Assam, NWFP, Bengal, Punjab, and Sindh. After contesting these elections, the Indian National Congress gained power in eight of them except Bengal, Punjab, and Sindh. The All-India Muslim League failed to form a government in any province. Congress ministries resigned in October and November 1939 in protest against Viceroy Lord Linlithgow's declaration that India was a belligerent in the Second World War without consulting the Indian people.\n\nIn 1939, Subhas Chandra Bose, the elected president in both 1938 and 1939, resigned from Congress over the selection of the working committee. The party was not the sole representative of the Indian polity, other parties included the Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Mahasabha, and the All India Forward Bloc. The party was an umbrella organisation, sheltering radical socialists, traditionalists, and Hindu and Muslim conservatives. Gandhi expelled all the socialist groupings, including the Congress Socialist Party, the Krishak Praja Party, and the Swarajya Party, along with Subhas Chandra Bose, in 1939.\n\nAzad Hind, an Indian provisional government, had been established in Singapore in 1943, and was supported by Japan.\n\nIn 1946, the British tried the Indian soldiers who had fought alongside the Japanese during World War II in the INA trials. In response, Congress helped form the INA Defence Committee, which assembled a legal team to defend the case of the soldiers of the Azad Hind government. The team included several famous lawyers, including Bhulabhai Desai, Asaf Ali, and Jawaharlal Nehru. The same year, Congress members initially supported the sailors who led the Royal Indian Navy mutiny, but they withdrew support at a critical juncture and the mutiny failed.\n\nAfter Indian independence in 1947, the Indian National Congress became the dominant political party in the country. In 1952, in the first general election held after Independence, the party swept to power in the national parliament and most state legislatures. It held power nationally until 1977, when it was defeated by the Janata coalition. It returned to power in 1980 and ruled until 1989, when it was once again defeated. The party formed the government in 1991 at the head of a coalition, as well as in 2004 and 2009, when it led the United Progressive Alliance. During this period the Congress remained centre-left in its social policies while steadily shifting from a socialist to a neoliberal economic outlook. The Party's rivals at state level have been national parties including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPIM), and various regional parties, such as the Telugu Desam Party, Trinamool Congress and Aam Aadmi Party.\n\nA post-partition successor to the party survived as the Pakistan National Congress, a party which represented the rights of religious minorities in the state. The party's support was strongest in the Bengali-speaking province of East Pakistan. After the Bangladeshi War of Independence, it became known as the Bangladeshi National Congress, but was dissolved in 1975 by the government.\n\nFrom 1951 until his death in 1964, Jawaharlal Nehru was the paramount leader of the party. Congress gained power in landslide victories in the general elections of 1951–52, 1957, and 1962. During his tenure, Nehru implemented policies based on import substitution industrialisation, and advocated a mixed economy where the government-controlled public sector co-existed with the private sector. He believed the establishment of basic and heavy industries was fundamental to the development and modernisation of the Indian economy. The Nehru government directed investment primarily into key public sector industries—steel, iron, coal, and power—promoting their development with subsidies and protectionist policies. Nehru embraced secularism, socialistic economic practices based on state-driven industrialisation, and a non-aligned and non-confrontational foreign policy that became typical of the modern Congress Party. The policy of non-alignment during the Cold War meant Nehru received financial and technical support from both the Eastern and Western Blocs to build India's industrial base from nothing.\n\nDuring his period in office, there were four known assassination attempts on Nehru. The first attempt on his life was during partition in 1947 while he was visiting the North-West Frontier Province in a car. The second was by a knife-wielding rickshaw-puller in Maharashtra in 1955. A third attempt happened in Bombay in 1956. The fourth was a failed bombing attempt on railway tracks in Maharashtra in 1961. Despite threats to his life, Nehru despised having excess security personnel around him and did not like his movements to disrupt traffic.\n\nIn 1964, Nehru died because of an aortic dissection, raising questions about the party's future.\n\nK. Kamaraj became the president of the All India Congress Committee in 1963 during the last year of Nehru's life. Prior to that, he had been the chief minister of Madras state for nine years. Kamraj had also been a member of \"the syndicate\", a group of right wing leaders within Congress.In 1963 the Congress lost popularity following the defeat in the Indo-Chinese war of 1962.To revitalize the party, Kamraj proposed the Kamaraj Plan to Nehru that encouraged six Congress chief ministers (including himself) and six senior cabinet ministers to resign to take up party work. After Nehru's death in May 1964, Kamaraj was widely credited as the \"kingmaker\" in Indian politics for ensuring the victory of Lal Bahadur Shastri over Morarji Desai as the successor of Nehru.\n\nAs prime minister, Shastri retained many members of Nehru's Council of Ministers; T. T. Krishnamachari was retained as Finance Minister of India, as was Defence Minister Yashwantrao Chavan. Shastri appointed Swaran Singh to succeed him as External Affairs Minister. Shashtri appointed Indira Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru's daughter and former party president, Minister of Information and Broadcasting. Gulzarilal Nanda continued as the Minister of Home Affairs. As Prime Minister, Shastri continued Nehru's policy of non-alignment, but built closer relations with the Soviet Union. In the aftermath of the Sino-Indian War of 1962, and the formation of military ties between China and Pakistan, Shastri's government expanded the defence budget of India's armed forces. He also promoted the White Revolution—a national campaign to increase the production and supply of milk by creating the National Dairy Development Board. The Madras anti-Hindi agitation of 1965 occurred during Shastri's tenure.\n\nShastri became a national hero following victory in the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965. His slogan, \"Jai Jawan Jai Kisan\" (\"Hail the soldier, Hail the farmer\"), became very popular during the war. On 11 January 1966, a day after signing the Tashkent Declaration, Shastri died in Tashkent, reportedly of a heart attack; but the circumstances of his death remain mysterious.\n\nAfter Shastri's death, Congress elected Indira Gandhi as leader over Morarji Desai. Once again, politician K. Kamaraj was instrumental in achieving this result. In 1967, following a poor performance in the general election, Indira Gandhi started moving towards the political left. In mid-1969, she was involved in a dispute with senior party leaders on a number of issues. The two major issues were Gandhi supporting the independent candidate, V. V. Giri, rather than the official Congress party candidate, Neelam Sanjiva Reddy, for the vacant post of the President of India. The second issue was Mrs. Gandhi's abrupt nationalization of the 14 biggest banks in India, which resulted in the resignation of the finance minister, Morarji Desai. Later in the year, the Congress party president, S. Nijalingappa, expelled her from the party for indiscipline. Mrs. Gandhi as a counter-move launched her own faction of the INC. Mrs. Gandhi's faction, called Congress (R), was supported by most of the Congress MPs while the original party had the support of only 65 MPs.\n\nIn the mid-term parliamentary elections held in 1971, the Gandhi-led Congress (R) Party won a landslide victory on a platform of progressive policies such as the elimination of poverty (Garibi Hatao). The policies of the Congress (R) Party under Gandhi before the 1971 elections included proposals to abolish the Privy Purse to former rulers of the Princely states, and the 1969 nationalisation of India's 14 largest banks.\n\nThe New Congress Party's popular support began to wane in the mid-1970s. From 1975, Gandhi's government grew increasingly more authoritarian and unrest among the opposition grew. On 12 June 1975, the High Court of Allahabad declared Indira Gandhi's election to the Lok Sabha, the lower house of India's parliament, void on the grounds of electoral malpractice. However, Gandhi rejected calls to resign and announced plans to appeal to the Supreme Court. She moved to restore order by ordering the arrest of most of the opposition participating in the unrest. In response to increasing disorder and lawlessness, Gandhi's cabinet and government recommended that President Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed declare a State of Emergency, which he did on 25 June 1975 based on the provisions of Article 352 of the Constitution.\n\nDuring the nineteen-month emergency, widespread oppression and abuse of power by Gandhi's unelected younger son and political heir Sanjay Gandhi and his close associates occurred. This period of oppression ended on 23 January 1977, when Gandhi released all political prisoners and called fresh elections for the Lok Sabha to be held in March. The Emergency officially ended on 23 March 1977. In that month's parliamentary elections, the opposition Janata Party won a landslide victory over Congress, winning 295 seats in the Lok Sabha against Congress' 153. Gandhi lost her seat to her Janata opponent Raj Narain. On 2 January 1978, she and her followers seceded and formed a new opposition party, popularly called Congress (I)—the \"I\" signifying Indira. During the next year, her new party attracted enough members of the legislature to become the official opposition.\n\nIn November 1978, Gandhi regained a parliamentary seat. In January 1980, following a landslide victory for Congress (I), she was again elected prime minister. The national election commission declared Congress (I) to be the real Indian National Congress for the 1984 general election.However, the designation I was only dropped in 1996.\n\nDuring Gandhi's new term as prime minister, her youngest son Sanjay died in an aeroplane crash in June 1980. This led her to encourage her elder son Rajiv, who was working as a pilot, to enter politics. Gradually, Indira Gandhi's politics and outlook grew more authoritarian and autocratic, and she became the central figure within the Congress Party. As prime minister, she became known for her political ruthlessness and unprecedented centralisation of power.\n\nGandhi's term as prime minister also saw increasing turmoil in Punjab, with demands for Sikh autonomy by Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and his militant followers. In 1983, they headquartered themselves in the Golden Temple in Amritsar and started accumulating weapons. In June 1984, after several futile negotiations, Gandhi ordered the Indian Army to enter the Golden Temple to establish control over the complex and remove Bhindranwale and his armed followers. This event is known as Operation Blue Star.\n\nOn 31 October 1984, two of Gandhi's bodyguards, Satwant Singh and Beant Singh, shot her with their service weapons in the garden of the prime minister's residence in response to her authorisation of Operation Blue Star. Gandhi was due to be interviewed by British actor Peter Ustinov, who was filming a documentary for Irish television. Her assassination prompted the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, during which more than 3,000 people were killed.\n\nIn 1984, Indira Gandhi's son Rajiv Gandhi became nominal head of Congress, and went on to become prime minister upon her assassination. In December, he led Congress to a landslide victory, where it secured 401 seats in the legislature. His administration took measures to reform the government bureaucracy and liberalise the country's economy. Rajiv Gandhi's attempts to discourage separatist movements in Punjab and Kashmir backfired. After his government became embroiled in several financial scandals, his leadership became increasingly ineffectual. Gandhi was regarded as a non-abrasive person who consulted other party members and refrained from hasty decisions. The Bofors scandal damaged his reputation as an honest politician, but he was posthumously cleared of bribery allegations in 2004. On 21 May 1991, Gandhi was killed by a bomb concealed in a basket of flowers carried by a woman associated with the Tamil Tigers. He was campaigning in Tamil Nadu for upcoming parliamentary elections. In 1998, an Indian court convicted 26 people in the conspiracy to assassinate Gandhi. The conspirators, who consisted of Tamil militants from Sri Lanka and their Indian allies, had sought revenge against Gandhi because the Indian troops he sent to Sri Lanka in 1987 to help enforce a peace accord there had fought with Tamil separatist guerrillas.\n\nRajiv Gandhi was succeeded as party leader by P. V. Narasimha Rao, who was elected prime minister in June 1991. His rise to the prime ministership was politically significant because he was the first holder of the office from South India. His administration oversaw major economic change and experienced several home incidents that affected India's national security. Rao, who held the Industries portfolio, was personally responsible for the dismantling of the Licence Raj, which came under the purview of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. He is often called the \"father of Indian economic reforms\".\n\nFuture prime ministers Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh continued the economic reform policies begun by Rao's government. Rao accelerated the dismantling of the Licence Raj, reversing the socialist policies of previous governments. He employed Manmohan Singh as his finance minister to begin a historic economic change. With Rao's mandate, Singh launched India's globalisation reforms that involved implementing International Monetary Fund (IMF) policies to prevent India's impending economic collapse. Rao was also referred to as \"Chanakya\" for his ability to push tough economic and political legislation through the parliament while he headed a minority government.\n\nBy 1996, the party's image was suffering from allegations of corruption, and in elections that year, Congress was reduced to 140 seats, its lowest number in the Lok Sabha to that point. Rao later resigned as prime minister and, in September, as party president. He was succeeded as president by Sitaram Kesri, the party's first non-Brahmin leader.\n\nThe 1998 general election saw Congress win 141 seats in the Lok Sabha, its lowest tally until then. To boost its popularity and improve its performance in the forthcoming election, Congress leaders urged Sonia Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi's widow, to assume leadership of the party. She had previously declined offers to become actively involved in party affairs, and had stayed away from politics. After her election as party leader, a section of the party that objected to the choice because of her Italian ethnicity broke away and formed the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), led by Sharad Pawar. The breakaway faction commanded strong support in the state of Maharashtra and limited support elsewhere. The remainder continued to be known as the Indian National Congress.\n\nSonia Gandhi struggled to revive the party in her early years as its president; she was under continuous scrutiny for her foreign birth and lack of political acumen. In the snap elections called by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in 1999, Congress' tally further plummeted to just 114 seats. Although the leadership structure was unaltered as the party campaigned strongly in the assembly elections that followed, Gandhi began to make such strategic changes as abandoning the party's 1998 Pachmarhi resolution of \"ekla chalo\", or \"go it alone\" policy, and formed alliances with other like-minded parties. In the intervening years, the party was successful at various legislative assembly elections; at one point, Congress ruled 15 states. For the 2004 general election, Congress forged alliances with regional parties including the NCP and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. The party's campaign emphasised social inclusion and the welfare of the common massesan ideology that Gandhi herself endorsed for Congress during her presidencywith slogans such as \"Congress ka haath, aam aadmi ke saath\" (\"Congress hand in hand with the common man\"), contrasting with the NDA's \"India Shining\" campaign. The Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) won 222 seats in the new parliament, defeating the NDA by a substantial margin. With the subsequent support of the communist front, Congress won a majority and formed a new government. Despite massive support from within the party, Gandhi declined the post of prime minister, choosing to appoint Manmohan Singh instead. She remained as party president and headed the National Advisory Council (NAC).\n\nDuring its first term in office, the UPA government passed several social reform bills. These included an employment guarantee bill, the Right to Information Act, and a right to education act. The NAC, as well as the Left Front that supported the government from the outside, were widely seen as being the driving force behind such legislation. The Left Front withdrew its support of the government over disagreements about the U.S.–India Civil Nuclear Agreement. Despite the effective loss of 62 seats in parliament, the government survived the trust vote that followed. In the Lok Sabha elections held soon after, Congress won 207 seats, the highest tally of any party since 1991. The UPA as a whole won 262, enabling it to form a government for the second time. The social welfare policies of the first UPA government, and the perceived divisiveness of the BJP, are broadly credited with the victory.\n\nBy the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the party had lost much of its popular support, mainly because of several years of poor economic conditions in the country, and growing discontent over a series of corruption allegations involving government officials, including the 2G spectrum case and the Indian coal allocation scam. Congress won only 44 seats, which was its worst-ever performance in a national election and brought into question whether it would continue to be identified as an officially recognised party. Gandhi retired as party president in December 2017, having served for a record nineteen years. She was succeeded by her son Rahul Gandhi.\n\n, the election symbol of Congress, as approved by the Election Commission of India, is an image of a right hand with its palm facing front and its fingers pressed together; this is usually shown in the centre of a tricolor flag. The hand symbol was first used by Indira Gandhi when she split from the Congress (R) faction following the 1977 elections and created the New Congress (I).\n\nThe symbol of the original Congress during elections held between 1952 and 1971 was an image of two bullocks with a plough. The symbol of Indira's Congress (R) during the 1971–1977 period was a cow with a suckling calf.\n\nCongress was structured in a hierarchical manner by Mohandas Gandhi's when he took charge as the president of the party in 1921. The party was a \"broad church\" during the independence movement; however, Jawarlal Nehru's descendants have turned the party into a \"family firm\" with hereditary succession. At present, the president and the All India Congress Committee (AICC) are elected by delegates from state and district parties at an annual national conference; in every Indian state and union territory—or \"pradesh\"—there is a Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC), which is the state-level unit of the party responsible for directing political campaigns at local and state levels, and assisting the campaigns for parliamentary constituencies. Each PCC has a working committee of twenty members, most of whom are appointed by the party president, the leader of the state party, who is chosen by the national president. Those elected as members of the states' legislative assemblies form the Congress Legislature Parties in the various state assemblies; their chairperson is usually the party's nominee for Chief Ministership. The party is also organised into various committees, and sections; it publishes a daily newspaper, the \"National Herald\". Despite being a party with a structure, Congress under Indira Gandhi did not hold any organizational elections after 1972.\n\nThe AICC is composed of delegates sent from the PCCs. The delegates elect Congress committees, including the Congress Working Committee, consisting of senior party leaders and office bearers. The AICC takes all important executive and political decisions. Since Indira Gandhi formed Congress (I) in 1978, the President of the Indian National Congress has effectively been: the party's national leader, head of the organisation, head of the Working Committee and all chief Congress committees, chief spokesman, and Congress' choice for Prime Minister of India. Constitutionally, the president is elected by the PCCs and members of the AICC; however, this procedure has often been by-passed by the Working Committee, which has elected its own candidate.\n\nThe Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP) consists of elected MPs in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. There is also a Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader in each state. The CLP consists of all Congress Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) in each state. In cases of states where the Congress is single-handedly ruling the government, the CLP leader is the Chief Minister. Other directly affiliated groups include: the National Students Union of India (NSUI), the Indian Youth Congress — the party's youth wing, the Indian National Trade Union Congress, Mahila Congress, its women's division, and Congress Seva Dal—its voluntary organisation.\n\nDynasticism is fairly common in many political parties in India,however,the congress can be described as dynastic party par excellence.Six members of the Nehru-Gandhi family have been presidents of the party.The party started turning into a family firm controlled by Indira Gandhi's family during the emergency.This was characterized by servility and sycophancy towards the family which later turned into hereditary succession of Gandhi family members to power. Since the formation of Congress(I) by Indira Gandhi in 1978,the party president has been from her family except for the period between 1991 and 1998. In the last three elections to the Lok Sabha combined,37% of Congress party MPs had family members precede them in politics.\n\n\nCongress is a civic nationalist party that follows a form of nationalism that supports the values of freedom, tolerance, equality, and individual rights.\n\nThroughout much of the Cold War period, Congress supported a foreign policy of nonalignment that called for India to form ties with both the Western and Eastern Blocs, but to avoid formal alliances with either. support for Pakistan led the party to endorse a friendship treaty with the Soviet Union in 1971. In 2004, when the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance came to power, its chairperson Sonia Gandhi unexpectedly relinquished the premiership to Manmohan Singh. This Singh-led \"UPA I\" government executed several key pieces of legislation and projects, including the Rural Health Mission, Unique Identification Authority, the Rural Employment Guarantee scheme, and the Right to Information Act.\n\nThe history of economic policy of Congress-led governments can be divided into two periods. The first period lasted from independence, in 1947, to 1991 and put great emphasis on the public sector. The second period began with economic liberalization in 1991.\n\nAt the beginning of the first period, the Congress prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru implemented policies based on import substitution industrialization and advocated a mixed economy where the government-controlled public sector would co-exist with the private sector. He believed that the establishment of basic and heavy industry was fundamental to the development and modernisation of the Indian economy. The government, therefore, directed investment primarily into key public-sector industries—steel, iron, coal, and power—promoting their development with subsidies and protectionist policies. This period was called the Licence Raj, or Permit Raj, which was the elaborate system of licences, regulations, and accompanying red tape that were required to set up and run businesses in India between 1947 and 1990. The Licence Raj was a result of Nehru and his successors' desire to have a planned economy where all aspects of the economy were controlled by the state, and licences were given to a select few. Up to 80 government agencies had to be satisfied before private companies could produce something; and, if the licence were granted, the government would regulate production. The licence raj system continued under Indira Gandhi.In addition,many key sectors such as banking, steel coal, and oil were nationalized. Under Rajiv Gandhi, small steps were taken to liberalize the economy.\n\nIn 1991, the new Congress-party government, led by P. V. Narasimha Rao, initiated reforms to avert the impending 1991 economic crisis. The reforms progressed furthest in opening up areas to foreign investment, reforming capital markets, deregulating domestic business, and reforming the trade regime. The goals of Rao's government were to reduce the fiscal deficit, privatize the public sector, and increase investment in infrastructure. Trade reforms and changes in the regulation of foreign direct investment were introduced in order to open India to foreign trade while stabilising external loans. Rao chose Manmohan Singh for the job. Singh, an acclaimed economist and former chairman of the Resrve Bank, played a central role in implementing these reforms.\n\nIn 2004, Singh became prime minister of the Congress-led UPA government. Singh remained prime minister after the UPA won the 2009 general elections. The UPA government introduced policies aimed at reforming the banking and financial sectors, as well as public sector companies. It also introduced policies aimed at relieving farmers of their debt. In 2005, Singh's government introduced the value added tax, replacing the sales tax. India was able to resist the worst effects of the global Economic crisis of 2008. Singh's government continued the Golden Quadrilateral, the Indian highway modernisation program that was initiated by Vajpayee's government.\n\nAt present, Congress endorses a mixed economy in which the private sector and the state both direct the economy, which has characteristics of both market and planned economies. Congress advocates import substitution industrialisation—the replacement of foreign imports with domestic products. Congress believes the Indian economy should be liberalised to increase the pace of development.\n\nIn 2005, the Congress-led government started the National Rural Health Mission, which employed about 500,000 community health workers. It was praised by economist Jeffrey Sachs. In 2006, it implemented a proposal to reserve 27% of seats in the All India Institute of Medical Studies (AIIMS), the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), the Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs), and other central higher education institutions, for Other Backward Classes, which led to the 2006 Indian anti-reservation protests. The Singh government also continued the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan programme, which includes the introduction and improvement of mid-day school meals and the opening of new schools throughout India, especially in rural areas, to fight illiteracy. During Manmohan Singh's prime-ministership, eight Institutes of Technology were opened in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Orissa, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Himachal Pradesh.\n\nCongress has strengthened anti-terrorism laws with amendments to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The National Investigation Agency (NIA) was created by the UPA government soon after the November 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, in response to the need for a central agency to combat terrorism. The Unique Identification Authority of India was established in February 2009 to implement the proposed Multipurpose National Identity Card, with the objective of increasing national security.\n\nCongress has continued the foreign policy started by P. V. Narasimha Rao. This includes the peace process with Pakistan, and the exchange of high-level visits by leaders from both countries. The party has tried to end the border dispute with the People's Republic of China through negotiations. Relations with Afghanistan have also been a concern for Congress. During Afghan President Hamid Karzai's visit to New Delhi in August 2008, Manmohan Singh increased the aid package to Afghanistan for the development of schools, health clinics, infrastructure, and defence. India is now one of the single largest aid donors to Afghanistan.\n\nWhen in power between 2004 and 2014, Congress worked on India's relationship with the United States. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh visited the US in July 2005 to negotiate an India–United States Civil Nuclear Agreement. US president George W. Bush visited India in March 2006; during this visit, a nuclear agreement that would give India access to nuclear fuel and technology in exchange for the IAEA inspection of its civil nuclear reactors was proposed. Over two years of negotiations, followed by approval from the IAEA, the Nuclear Suppliers Group and the United States Congress, the agreement was signed on 10 October 2008.\n\nCongress' policy has been to cultivate friendly relations with Japan as well as European Union countries including the United Kingdom, France, and Germany. Diplomatic relations with Iran have continued, and negotiations over the Iran-Pakistan-India gas pipeline have taken place. In April 2006, New Delhi hosted an India–Africa summit attended by the leaders of 15 African states. Congress' policy has also been to improve relations with other developing countries, particularly Brazil and South Africa.\n\n, Congress (INC) is in power in the states of Mizoram and Punjab where the party has majority support. In Karnataka and Puducherry it shares power with alliance partner Janata Dal (Secular) and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam respectively. The party during the post-independence era has governed most of the States and union territories of India.\n\nA majority of non-Congress prime ministers of India had been members of the Congress party earlier in their careers. \n"}
{"id": "51125875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51125875", "title": "Jasenovac – istina", "text": "Jasenovac – istina\n\nJasenovac – istina (English: Jasenovac – The Truth) is a 2016 documentary film by Croatian filmmaker Jakov Sedlar. The film contends that the extent of The Holocaust in Croatia and the World War II-era genocide of the country's Serb population was exaggerated through post-war communist propaganda. It focuses primarily on Jasenovac, a concentration camp run by Croatia's wartime fascist Ustaše government where an estimated 100,000 are believed to have perished, and suggests that the actual death toll never exceeded 18,000. The film also argues that Jasenovac continued being used as a concentration camp by Yugoslavia's communist authorities well after World War II, and that more inmates perished when it was run by the communists than when it was run by the Ustaše.\n\nThe film premiered in Tel Aviv in February 2016 and in Zagreb two months later. Its Croatian premiere was attended by Culture Minister Zlatko Hasanbegović, who is alleged to have made a number of pro-fascist statements in the past. The film was panned by scholars, journalists and politicians from the Croatian left, who accused the filmmakers of minimizing and relativizing Ustaše atrocities. It was also alleged that the filmmakers had fabricated or misrepresented a number of photographs, correspondences and newspaper reports seen in the film, as well as that they had manipulated videotaped survivor testimony through selective editing. The Israeli ambassador to Croatia, who attended the Zagreb premiere, strongly criticized the film and accused the filmmakers of historical revisionism, as did representatives of the Croatian Serb and Croatian Jewish communities.\n\n\"Jasenovac – istina\" has been shown as an educational feature in a number of Croatian schools, causing further controversy. Sedlar has said that he intends to screen the film at Holocaust museums and Jewish community centres, and indicated that copies will be donated to university libraries in Europe and North America. In July 2016, a non-governmental organization called the Anti-Fascist League of Croatia filed a lawsuit against Sedlar alleging the film incited ethnic intolerance and promoted Holocaust denial.\n\nDuring World War II, Croats were divided between the communist Partisans, led by Josip Broz Tito, and the fascist Ustaše, led by Ante Pavelić. Pavelić came to power following the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia in April 1941, declared independence from Yugoslavia, and ruled the fascist puppet state of Croatia as a dictator until 1945, when the Ustaše were defeated and the country was reintegrated into Yugoslavia, which fell under communist rule at the war's end. While in power, the Ustaše had pursued a campaign of extermination against Croatia's minorities, particularly Serbs, Jews and Roma (Gypsies). Between 1941 and 1945, they set up a number of concentration camps, the largest of which was Jasenovac, which survivors dubbed the \"Auschwitz of the Balkans\". An estimated 100,000 prisoners perished at the camp, which was only liberated following Pavelić's defeat in April 1945. Wartime events continue to influence 21st-century Croatian politics. \"For many Croats,\" \"The Economist\" reports, \"voting has less to do with left- or right-leaning ideological beliefs than with whose side one's family was on during the Second World War.\"\n\nThe film was directed and produced by Jakov Sedlar, written by novelist Hrvoje Hitrec, and narrated by Croatian actors Dragan Despot and Sanja Marin. Sedlar was the Croatian Government's \"official propagandist\" during the Yugoslav Wars of the 1990s, according to the historian Vjekoslav Perica. Sedlar became known for films such as \"Gospa\" (Madonna) and \"Četverored\" (Four by Four), which show the events of World War II and the Cold War from a Croatian nationalist perspective. He also made a number of documentaries glorifying wartime President Franjo Tuđman and his party, the right-wing Croatian Democratic Union (\"Hrvatska Demokratska zajednica\"; HDZ). In an apparent bid to increase their credibility abroad, several were filmed in the English language, with actor Martin Sheen narrating. Hitrec was another close associate of Tuđman, as well as one of the founding members of the HDZ. In 1990, he was appointed director of Croatia's state broadcaster, Croatian Radiotelevision. Between March and July 1991, he served as Croatia's Minister of Information.\n\nThe film was produced through the donations of Croatian Canadian businessman Anton Kikaš and retired Croatian footballer Josip Šimunić. Kikaš was a prominent émigré fundraiser supporting Croatian nationalist causes during the 1980s and 1990s. On 30 August 1991, at the height of the Croatian War of Independence, he was arrested at the Zagreb Airport for attempting to smuggle a large cache of weapons to the Croatian Army, after the European Community and United Nations had imposed an arms embargo on the former Yugoslavia. Three months later, he was released in a prisoner exchange. In 2013, Šimunić earned a ten-match suspension for chanting the Ustaše-era slogan \"Za dom spremni!\" (\"For the homeland—ready!\") following a 2014 FIFA World Cup qualifying match, forcing him to miss the tournament.\n\nThe film opens by stating that the number of inmates who perished at Jasenovac has never been accurately ascertained, with estimates ranging from 49,000 to 700,000 dead. It brings up a document from 1946 in which the president of the State Commission on Ascertaining Crimes Committed by Occupying Powers and Their Helpers reports that 15,792 inmates were killed at Jasenovac. The film then offers a glimpse at the 1945 British documentary \"A Painful Reminder: Evidence for All Mankind\", in which it is stated that 20,000 perished at the camp.\n\nAfter World War I, the film asserts, Croatia was occupied by Greater Serbian expansionists and royalist guerillas known as Chetniks, who relegated Croats to the status of second-class citizens. It highlights a number of alleged murders of Croats in interwar Yugoslavia committed by Chetniks. In Jasenovac, the film claims, a Serb merchant named Lazar Bačić led a band that killed five Croats and terrorized countless others between 1918 and 1941. During this period, King Alexander's government implemented discriminatory laws targeting Croats, used the Royal Yugoslav Army to crush a number of peasant revolts and organized the killing of Croatian Peasant Party leader Stjepan Radić, after which Alexander declared himself royal dictator. Yugoslav jails became filled with Croatian patriots, the film explains, and the name Croatia was erased from all maps. In response to this oppression, a Croat lawyer named Ante Pavelić founded the Ustaše, a patriotic movement whose aim was to defend Croatian national interests in \"all the lands that Croats have historically inhabited\". Pavelić was soon exiled to Italy, where he continued plotting against the \"Belgrade regime\". In 1934, the Ustaše helped organize Alexander's assassination in Marseille. His funeral was attended by Philippe Pétain and Hermann Göring. This fact, the film maintains, was deliberately omitted from Yugoslav historiography.\n\nIn April 1941, amidst the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia and in response to a Serbian militia's massacre of dozens of defenseless Croatian civilians near Bjelovar, the Ustaše proclaimed the establishment of the Independent State of Croatia. Serbian nationalists, unwilling to live in an independent Croatian state, revolted against the Ustaše and initiated a campaign of genocide against the Croatian population. Following the invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941, a large number of these nationalists joined the Partisans in terrorizing Croat population centres. Pavelić, meanwhile, was misled into implementing German-style anti-Jewish laws, similar to those that Yugoslavia had implemented even before the invasion. Bačić and his son fled Jasenovac and sought refuge in Serbia, it is said, where they offered their services to collaborationist leader Milan Nedić. Bačić's property, which housed a brick factory prior to the invasion, was transformed into a \"concentration and labour\" camp and resumed production. At its height, the camp's brick factory employed 180 inmates. Hundreds of workers died from disease, exhaustion, or by drowning in a nearby marsh. The camp was used to detain all opponents of Pavelić's regime regardless of ethnicity, the film asserts, and it is claimed that most inmates were Croats.\n\nThousands of Jews are said to have sought refuge in Croatia before 1941, enticed by the Croats' historical Judeophilia. Hundreds converted to Roman Catholicism at the urging of Archbishop Aloysius Stepinac, thereby saving their own lives. Pavelić's wife, the film claims, was Jewish herself, as were many senior Ustaše officials. The viewer is shown a letter allegedly authored by Pavelić, asking government minister Mile Budak to spare the lives of Jews who had not committed any crimes against the state. The film claims that hundreds of Jasenovac inmates were killed in Allied bombing raids in 1944–45. Between 1941 and 1945, inmates were allowed to stage concerts, book readings and play football, the film maintains, and conditions were more humane than those in German camps. The narrator states that post-war communist propaganda inflated the number of people killed at Jasenovac, from an estimated 18,000 to 600,000–700,000. The viewer is shown a headline from the Partisan newspaper \"Vjesnik\", said to be dated from April 1945, which says that corpses tossed into the Sava River at Jasenovac had reached Zagreb. The narrator questions the veracity of this claim, explaining that the Sava flows away from Zagreb and not towards it.\n\nThe film expresses doubts about the incomplete list of over 83,000 victims compiled by the Jasenovac Research Institute, which supposedly includes the names of people who had been killed elsewhere by the Germans and Chetniks. It then claims that the Partisans used Jasenovac as a concentration camp of their own between 1945 and 1951, and that more inmates lost their lives while it was under communist control than when it was controlled by the Ustaše. The narrator concedes, however, that there is no documentary evidence proving this hypothesis. Over several months in the summer of 1945, the film contends, the Partisans massacred hundreds of thousands of Croats along the Austrian border, thereby committing one of the worst genocides in European history. Many of those who participated in the killings, it claims, were former Chetniks who had only recently changed allegiance and joined the Partisans. The narrator warns viewers against believing mainstream historical accounts of Croatia's wartime history and states that a number of prominent Croatian citizens, including former presidents Stjepan Mesić and Ivo Josipović, as well as a number of left-leaning historians and journalists, are conspiring against the country by perpetuating left-wing historical narratives. The film ends with the narrator calling the aforementioned individuals \"liberal fascists\".\n\nThe film premiered at The Arab-Hebrew Theater in Tel Aviv on 28 February 2016. Afterwards, it was shown in several Croatian cultural centers in Germany. It had its Croatian premiere at Zagreb's Kino Europa on 4 April 2016, opening to a sold out crowd. The screening was attended by Culture Minister Zlatko Hasanbegović and the Israeli ambassador to Croatia, Zina Kalay Kleitman. A controversial figure in his own right, Hasanbegović once described the Ustaše as \"heroes, martyrs and shahids\" in a column he wrote for a pro-fascist magazine during the 1990s. Around the same time he was writing for the magazine, Hasanbegović was also photographed wearing an Ustaše-style hat with fascist insignia. His attendance at the premiere thus attracted further controversy. Hasanbegović spoke positively of the documentary. \"Such films are useful because they speak about a number of taboo topics,\" he said. \"This is the best way to finally shed light on a number of controversial points in Croatian history.\" Kalay Kleitman objected to the film's premise, calling it offensive to the victims of the Holocaust and their families. She went on to accuse the filmmakers of historical revisionism and downplaying the extent and severity of Ustaše crimes.\n\nOn 6 April, the film was shown at the seminary of the Archdiocese of Split. The screening was organized by the Croatian Benedictine society, and attended by the deputy speaker of the Croatian Parliament, Ante Sanader. Its DVD release was accompanied by a shorter documentary, also directed by Sedlar, titled \"Holokaust u Srbiji, 1941–1945\" (\"The Holocaust in Serbia, 1941–1945\") about the Holocaust in Serbia. \"Jasenovac\" was poorly received by the Croatian left. It was also criticized by members of Croatia's Jewish community. The scholar Slavko Goldstein, himself a Holocaust survivor, said the film promotes the idea that \"Jasenovac was not a death camp, but merely a labour camp or a prisoner camp. A punitive camp, with no mass executions.\" He further described the film as being \"full of half-truths, lies and fabrications\". Croatian Serb leader Milorad Pupovac condemned the film as \"anti-Serb and anti-Semitic\". The documentary was also roundly criticized abroad. Political analyst Paul Hockenos describes it as a \"pro-Ustasha film\". Journalist Tim Judah, who covered the Yugoslav Wars in the 1990s, noted that \"Jasenovac – istina\" is one of several politically charged films that were released in the Balkans in 2016, and muses as to why this is:\n\nEfraim Zuroff, the director of the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Jerusalem, believes the film's premiere was held in Israel to help deflect accusations of antisemitism. Serbian journalist Mladen Popović criticizes Sedlar's decision to name his production company Tesla Film, calling it a deliberate provocation and accusing the filmmakers of appropriating the eponymous inventor, thus further denigrating Jasenovac's Serb victims.\n\nIn April 2016, Lovro Krnić, a Croatian journalist writing for the website \"Lupiga.com\", proved that one of the newspaper headlines seen in the film was doctored. The headline in question was said to be from an May 1945 issue of the Croatian Unitary National Liberation Front newspaper \"Vjesnik\" and claimed that corpses tossed into the Sava were reaching Zagreb from the direction of Jasenovac. The purpose of its inclusion in the film was to demonstrate that the Partisans were spreading lies about Jasenovac as early as May 1945, given that the Sava flows eastwards away from Zagreb and not towards it.\n\nShortly after the premiere, Krnić went through the Zagreb state archives and examined all the May 1945 issues of \"Vjesnik\", the newspaper in question. He found that no such headline exists. Upon closer inspection, Krnić discovered that the headline seen in the film had been crudely doctored, likely using Photoshop, since the article seen below the doctored headline matches with another news story unrelated to Jasenovac. By comparing other articles present on the front page, Krnić concluded that the original issue of \"Vjesnik\" used for the forgery was published on 15 May 1945, and that nothing except the main headline was changed for the film, except the publication date itself, which was obscured in Sedlar's film by a faked damage effect. Sedlar denied forging the headline and maintained that it was authentic. In an interview for N1, a regional news channel, Sedlar said he paid an unnamed private collector in Belgrade to film his copy of the \"Vjesnik\" issue, adding that the people who own it are \"thieves\" who probably \"stole it somewhere\", and saying he does not own a copy himself.\n\nJournalists and scholars uncovered further inaccuracies and misrepresentations in the weeks following the film's release. Journalist Nikola Bajto found that a photograph purporting to show interwar Chetniks in the vicinity of Jasenovac actually depicted World War II-era Slovene Home Guards, as evidenced by the Slovene language slogan \"Svoboda ali Smrt\" (\"Freedom or Death\") on the banner they are seen holding, which would have been written in Serbian had the depicted individuals actually been Chetniks. A photograph purporting to show a football team made up of camp inmates, supposedly proving that inmates were allowed to partake in recreational activities, was also found to have been misrepresented by the filmmakers. The photograph was taken in the 1970s and shows players from a local lower-league team called NK Balkan Jasenovac.\n\nAt one point in the film, the narrator refers to late Croatian demographer Vladimir Žerjavić (who authored a number of scholarly studies on wartime deaths in Yugoslavia) by the traditionally Serb given name of Dragutin, calling him \"Dragutin Žerjavić\". The intention, according to Croatian journalist Vladimir Matijanić, was to discredit Žerjavić's findings by implying that he was an ethnic Serb. Bajto also criticized the portion of the film where a photograph of Pétain and Göring at King Alexander's 1934 funeral is shown, with the narrator claiming that any mention of their attendance was omitted from official Yugoslav historiography. Bajto explained that Pétain and Göring had been among hundreds of European dignitaries at the funeral, and that their presence was not indicative of any pro-fascist sympathies on the part of the Yugoslav monarchy. He notes that their attendance there was not only never concealed, but that the very book from which the filmmakers obtained the photograph had been published in Serbia in the 1950s.\n\nThe Anti-Fascist League of Croatia, a local non-governmental organization, alleges that the purported Pavelić–Budak correspondence shown in the film is not authentic, and suggests the letters shown were written on a model of typewriter that was not produced until after the war. Goldstein stated that he had never come across the papers before. Sedlar claims he bought them off the black market. It was also alleged that the filmmakers manipulated videotaped survivor testimony through selective editing in order to portray the Ustaše in a more favourable light. \"The film even includes two alleged guards from the period of the alleged Communist camp: Slovenians identified only by initials and with their faces blurred,\" the Croatian journalist Sven Milekić writes. \"While they cannot be identified, they do not look as if they are over 80, as they would have to be if they were guards in 1950.\"\n\nHistorians also criticized the filmmakers for suggesting that hundreds of thousands of Ustaše prisoners were executed by the Partisans after the war, saying there is no evidence to substantiate such a figure. The filmmakers were also criticized for claiming that the Zagreb Synagogue was the only surviving synagogue in a wartime European capital; it was destroyed along with more than 20 other Croatian synagogues during the war. Photographs of the various stages of the months-long destruction of the Zagreb Synagogue were even taken and exhibited publicly at the Antisemitic Exhibition in Zagreb by Ustaše themselves in May 1942. \"The filmmakers are portraying the Jewish experience in wartime Croatia in the best possible light,\" Matijanić wrote. \"There is no mention of the deportation of Zagreb's chief rabbi to Auschwitz, where he was killed.\" \"The irony,\" Bajto notes, \"is that Sedlar and Hitrec lied and manipulated while accusing the Partisans of doing just that.\" He goes on to call the entire film \"a lie\".\n\nIn April 2016, the film was played as part of the religious studies curriculum at a high school in Sisak. The incident caused an uproar among Croatia's anti-fascist left. The Croatian daily \"Jutarnji list\" called the incident \"scandalous\". The school's principal rejected criticism that it was irresponsible to show the film to high schoolers, arguing that any film could be shown in the classroom as long as it was not banned outright. The Croatian journalist Tomislav Šoštarić, writing for Al Jazeera Balkans, attributes such incidents to the resurgence of far-right sentiment in Croatia following the HDZ's return to power in the November 2015 parliamentary elections. A number of the country's high schools have since screened the film in their classrooms, according to the Anti-Fascist League of Croatia.\n\nSedlar has stated that he intended to screen the film at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C., as well as a Jewish community centre in New York City. He has also stated that the film would be translated into a number of languages and that copies would be donated to dozens of university libraries across Europe and North America. Yad Vashem was among the recipients of the film. In April 2017, Zuroff criticized the organization for having the film as part of its media repertoire. \"The fact that an item is in the collection is in no way an endorsement of its content, but only reflects that it is about our subject of interest,\" said Robert Rozett, Yad Vashem's libraries director. He noted that the library collection contains more than 161,000 printed items and some 7,000 films, including those that deny the Holocaust.\n\nIn July 2016, the Anti-Fascist League of Croatia filed a lawsuit against Sedlar alleging that the film incited ethnic intolerance and promoted Holocaust denial. They allege that Sedlar misrepresented the extent and severity of the crimes committed at Jasenovac, trying to portray it as \"a communist myth\". Sedlar was also accused of deliberately neglecting to discuss the involvement of Ustaše units in war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. The lawsuit points to the doctored newspaper headline as evidence, and alleges that the correspondence between Pavelić and Budak that is seen in the film was doctored as well. \"By creating untruths,\" the League asserts, \"[Sedlar] says something extremely negative regarding the Serb minority in the film, creating an atmosphere of hatred and intolerance and demonizing certain groups and their members in a typical process of creating the preconditions for promoting animosity and hatred among the public.\" In April 2017, Sedlar wrote an open letter to the Zagreb City Council in response to the allegations. \"Never, not in a single film or public appearance of mine, have I ever incited hatred or tried to deny any crime; never in any thoughts did I say anything positive about fascism. Fascism, like communism, is an evil that only a sick man can support and promote.\" Sedlar was subsequently accused of falsely attributing a quote to Winston Churchill in another part of the letter.\n\nIn April 2017, the Zagreb City Council received a motion to honour Sedlar from the Committee for Public Recognition, headed by mayor Milan Bandić. The proposal was criticized by the Croatian Jewish community, as well as by the Simon Wiesenthal Centre. Zuroff wrote a letter to the council requesting that the motion be dismissed. \"We urge you to unequivocally reject any proposal to honor Sedlar, whose work belongs in the dustbin of Croatian history and is not worthy of any approval or recognition,\" Zuroff wrote. On 19 April 2017, the city council announced that it had accepted Sedlar's nomination, and bestowed upon him the Award of the City of Zagreb, along with €4,000 in prize money. Rival groups of protesters stood outside the Zagreb Assembly while the announcement was being made, with anti-fascist and left-wing groups demonstrating against Sedlar and Croatian veterans of the Yugoslav Wars expressing their support.\n\n"}
{"id": "31995466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31995466", "title": "Kanak Language Academy", "text": "Kanak Language Academy\n\nThe Kanak Language Academy (Académie des Langues Kanak; KLA) is a local, public educational establishment in New Caledonia. Founded in 2007, with roots reaching to the Nouméa Accords of 1998, the legislative assembly endorsed the setting up of the French territory’s first indigenous Kanak languages institute. Its mission is \"to establish rules of usage and to help promote and develop all Kanak languages and dialects\". The KLA is expected to standardise, protect, and develop the about forty Kanak languages and dialects, as well as standardize the written form for Kanak languages.\n\nThe majority of New Caledonian languages do not have a written form. Those that do, have a rudimentary one. As it was extremely difficult to define the correct spelling of words, a program was developed by the KLA and the University of New Caledonia that would propose a common writing standard. \nAll the collected data is analyzed by linguists that develop a form of writing which is accepted by the speakers. \n\nKLA publishes dictionaries, folk tales, and glossaries. In 2009, it had three radio broadcasts daily from Monday to Friday. In 2008, it organized a festival, Space Orality.\n\nThere are eight project leaders, each working in one of the areas of the country who are supported by academicians. They are selected from New Caledonia's main cultural and traditional clans and confederations. Déwé Gorodey was appointed chair of the academy in 2007. Its current director is Weniko Ihage.\n\n"}
{"id": "19668171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19668171", "title": "Local Economic Assessment Package", "text": "Local Economic Assessment Package\n\nThe Local Economic Assessment Package (also known as “EDR-LEAP” or “LEAP Model”) is a web-based, interactive database and software tool used by local and regional agencies in the US to improve strategies for economic development. It provides local economic performance measures, and benchmarks for comparison of economic development factors against competing regions. It works by incorporating elements of economic base analysis as well as gap analysis and business cluster analysis to identify needs for improvement and paths for economic growth.\n\nThe LEAP Model was originally developed for the Appalachian Regional Commission. Its theory and applications are discussed in peer-reviewed journal articles.\n\n"}
{"id": "10014557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10014557", "title": "Magnesium trisilicate", "text": "Magnesium trisilicate\n\nMagnesium trisilicate is an inorganic compound that is used as a food additive. The additive is frequently used by fast food chains to absorb fatty acids and extract impurities formed while frying edible oils. It has good acid neutralizing properties, but the reaction appears too slow to serve as an effective non-prescription antacid.\n\nOn March 12, 2007, Chinese health authorities seized and halted the use of magnesium trisilicate at Shaanxi Province KFC franchises, suspecting it to be a possible carcinogen. As a response, China's Ministry of Health conducted tests at six outlets of KFC. The results showed chemicals in the cooking process at KFC restaurants in the country were not harmful. The Ministry of Health said tests showed that using the product to filter cooking oil had no apparent impact on health. Food scares regularly sweep the Chinese media.\n"}
{"id": "52747945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52747945", "title": "Maillé affair", "text": "Maillé affair\n\nThe Maillé affair concerns a court ordinance obtained by a private company to force scientist Marie-Ève Maillé to give access to data exposing the identity of her research participants. The researcher documented the conflicts that arose in a municipality of Québec in the context of a windfarm project. Dre Maillé, adjunct professor at Université du Québec à Montréal, refuses to comply to the ordinance because it contravenes the ethical duty of preserving the privacy of research data. The ordinance was retracted in May 2017.\n\nAfter a call for bids by Hydro-Québec in 2005, a wind farm project is presented by the Enerfín company for the regional county municipality (RCM) of l'Érable. Eventually, the company receives the contract for the project. Enerfín is a subsidiary of Elecnor, a Spanish S.A. company. \nIn 2008, Enerfín creates the subsidiary Éoliennes de l'Érable to develop the project.\n\nThe wind farm project divides the citizens of l'Érable. In the report presented to the Bureau d'audiences publiques sur l'environnement, a deterioration of social climate was noted, based on several essays submitted by citizens. Despite the tensions, the project is authorized and the wind farm construction starts in 2011. It has been in activity since 2013.\n\nIn 2010, Marie-Ève Maillé interviews residents of the RCM of l'Érable in the context of her research. Back then, she was a PhD candidate in communication at UQÀM. Her thesis is about information diffusion surrounding the wind farm project and the social division that resulted from the controversial project. In this context, she interviews 93 residents, of which 74 are opposed to the project and 14 are supporters. As a researcher, she is committed to protect the privacy of their personal data. This commitment is part of a consent form signed by her and each participant. She obtains her PhD in 2012.\n\nIn November 2012, some residents file a request for a class-action lawsuit against Éoliennes de l'Érable, complaining about inconvenience caused by the construction and operation of the wind farm. The request is accepted in 2014 by the Quebec Superior Court. In 2015, the residents involved in the class action ask Dr Maillé to act as an expert witness in the lawsuit. She accepts.\n\nThe lawyers of Éoliennes de l'Érable then make a request to obtain the records of the interviews conducted by Maillé for her PhD, as well as the names of the people interviewed, in order to prepare the company's defense. In January 2016, Judge Marc St-Pierre accepts the request and orders Maillé to transmit the data and private information about her research participants to the company's lawyers. However, as is it generally the case in academic research, the participants privacy was a condition to their participation in the research project. In order to avoid being forced to divulge her data, she withdraws her participation as an expert witness in the lawsuit. Despite her withdrawal, in March 2016, Dr Maillé receives a formal notice from the court ordering her to submit her data within five days. She asks Judge St-Pierre to review his judgement. If maintained, the researcher will either have to break the confidentiality agreement she made with her research participants, or expose herself to a lawsuit for contempt of court.\n\nOn May 17, 2017, Marie-Ève Maillé is at Victoriaville courthouse. Assisted by lawyers from UQUÀM, the Fonds de recherche du Québec and the Canadian Association of University Teachers, she wants Judge St-Pierre to review his judgement. The confidentiality engagement between the researcher and the research participants is put forward, as well as the Wigmore criteria. The new ruling is released on May 31, in favour of the researcher. Judge St-Pierre retracts his preceding judgement, which forced Dr Maillé to disclose her brute research data.\n\nRealizing the importance of the stakes in this situation, several scientists publicly give their support to Dr Maillé. In August 2016, Québec's chief scientist Rémi Quirion says Maillé's research would never have been funded without the guarantee that the participants would remain anonymous.\nThe same day, the director of the Panel on Responsible Conduct of Research, Susan V. Zimmerman emphasizes that it is the researcher's duty to guarantee confidentiality on the information they obtain. On November 3, the Canadian Association of University Teachers says it is concerned by the ordinance forcing Dr Maillé to reveal the identity of the participants to her research. The day after, a letter cosigned by over 200 researchers from institutions in Québec is published. For the authors, the confidentiality of participants' data is an «inescapable aspect of academic research involving humans». They write that «the future of scientific inquiry and citizen confidence in academic research rely on this issue». Some days later, vice-rector for research, discovery, creation and innovation of Université de Montréal reiterates the importance of respecting research participants private life, which is a «key element of ethics of research involving human participants». At Université du Québec à Rimouski, researchers emphasize that failing to protect information obtained in a research context may «deter citizen response to researchers requests and questions as well as restricting access to first hand data essential to a fine understanding of social realities».\n\nOn November 28, 2016, UQÀM files a voluntary intervention to the court, collectively with the Fonds québécois de la recherche sur la nature et les technologies, the Fonds de recherche du Québec en santé and the Fonds de recherche du Québec Société et culture. By doing so, they show their support for Dr Maillé in her request to have the ordinance annulled.\n\nThe still ongoing story has also been taken up by the Canadian Civil Liberties Association and by \"Science\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43100384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43100384", "title": "March for Life Chicago", "text": "March for Life Chicago\n\nThe March for Life Chicago is an annual gathering of pro-life people and organizations from the Midwest in the city of Chicago. It occurs typically the weekend prior to or close to the anniversary of Roe vs. Wade, January 22. This event is held as a Midwest version of the March for Life in Washington, DC.\n\nThe March for Life Chicago is organized by a coalition of pro-life organizations in the Chicago area. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "564714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=564714", "title": "Michael Mansfield", "text": "Michael Mansfield\n\nMichael Mansfield (born 12 October 1941) is an English barrister. A republican, vegetarian, socialist and self-described \"radical lawyer\", he has participated in prominent and controversial court cases and inquests involving accused IRA bombers, the Birmingham Six, Bloody Sunday incident, the Hillsborough disaster and the deaths of Jean Charles de Menezes and Dodi Al-Fayed and the McLibel case.\n\nHe grew up in north Finchley, North London, and attended Holmewood Preparatory School (Woodside Park) before going to Highgate School and the University of Keele, where he graduated with a B.A. (Hons) in history and philosophy, before becoming Secretary of Keele's Students' Union.\n\nMansfield was called to the bar at Gray's Inn in 1967, became Queen's Counsel in 1989 and was elected as a Bencher of Gray's Inn in 2007.\n\nHe is currently the President of the Haldane Society of Socialist Lawyers, and is a Professor at Law at City University. Mansfield is a regular after dinner and keynote speaker.\n\nAs well as representing those wrongly convicted of the IRA's Guildford and Birmingham pub bombings, Mansfield has represented: the Angry Brigade; the Price sisters; Brian Keenan; the Orgreave miners; Mahmood Hussein Mattan, Ruth Ellis and James Hanratty (in posthumous appeals); those involved in the Israeli Embassy bombing; Stephen Lawrence's family; Michael Barrymore at the Stuart Lubbock inquest; Barry George at the inquest into the death of Jill Dando; the gangster Kenneth Noye; the Bloody Sunday families; Arthur Scargill; Angela Cannings; Fatmir Limaj, a Kosovo-Albanian leader prosecuted in the Hague; Mohamed al-Fayed in the inquest into the deaths of his son Dodi al-Fayed and Diana, Princess of Wales; and the families of Jean Charles de Menezes and Mark Duggan. He has been referred to as a \"champagne socialist\" though he has said that 95 per cent of his work comes from legal aid.\n\nWarning against over-reliance upon forensic science to secure convictions, Michael Mansfield in the BBC Scotland \"Frontline Scotland\" TV programme \"Silence over Lockerbie\", broadcast on 14 October 1997, said he wanted to make just one point:\nForensic science is not immutable. They're not written in tablets of stone, and the biggest mistake that anyone can make—public, expert or anyone else alike—is to believe that forensic science is somehow beyond reproach: it is not! The biggest miscarriages of justice in the United Kingdom, many of them emanate from cases in which forensic science has been shown to be wrong. And the moment a forensic scientist or anyone else says: 'I am sure this marries up with that' I get worried.\n\nMansfield has been married twice, to Melian Bordes for 19 years, with whom he had five children (Jonathan, Anna, Louise, Leo and Kieran), and for thirty years to the artist/filmmaker Yvette Vanson, from whom he separated in 2014 and with whom he had a son (Fred). His daughter, Anna, died by suicide in May 2015.\n\nMansfield is a patron of the animal welfare organisation Viva! (Vegetarians International Voice for Animals) and refers to animal production as \"genocide\". He is also patron of Hastings Advice and Representation Centre, a charity providing free welfare benefit advice and representation for local people in Hastings, East Sussex and the surrounding area.\n\nFollowing his daughter's suicide Mansfield established SOS Silence of Suicide, a suicide awareness charity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6942526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6942526", "title": "Military Association of Atheists &amp; Freethinkers", "text": "Military Association of Atheists &amp; Freethinkers\n\nThe Military Association of Atheists and Freethinkers (MAAF) is a community for atheists, humanists, and freethinkers in the military, both within the United States and from around the world. The MAAF can assist U.S. military members to respond to illegal and insensitive religious proselytizing on military bases. It is an independent 501(c)(3) organization building community for humanists and other nontheists in the military. The MAAF supports constitutional separation of church and state and First Amendment rights for all service members. It also educates and trains both the military and civilian community about atheism and humanism in the military.\n\nFlagship programs for MAAF are its local Network, with over 70 worldwide points of contact, lay leaders, and local groups from Kyrgyzstan to Japan and throughout the US and its Chaplain Outreach program to educate 5000 military chaplains on how to support atheists and humanists in the military. Supporting those major programs are care package delivery, lay leader and chaplain endorsement, and a robust advocacy program to identify and resolve issues, to make the military a safe place for nontheists.\n\n The MAAF was founded with a simple email discussion group in February 1998 by Kathleen Johnson when she was an active duty Sergeant First Class with the Army's Criminal Investigative Division (CID). It soon expanded from an online presence and affiliated with other organizations including American Atheists and the Campus Freethought Alliance (now CFI On Campus). Early membership, totalling just over 100, included several cadets and midshipmen in ROTC programs and military service academies. Jason Torpy, current president, took over in 2001 while still an active duty officer, established 501c3 status in 2006, and began working full-time for the organization at the end of 2010.\n\nThe group's early efforts included letter writing campaigns reminding public figures such as Tom Brokaw not to use the phrase, \"There are no atheists in foxholes.\" One recipient of these letters, broadcaster Bob Schieffer, issued a public apology in response. Other efforts supported active duty military personnel seeking to include, \"Atheist\" or, \"Agnostic\" on their dog-tags instead of the more common, \"No Rel Pref\" which meant the individual had no religious preference. MAAF also encourages Humanists to request that \"Humanism\" be added to the list of religious preferences. This does not identify humanism as a religion but as a preference about religion, alongside the already-list \"none\", \"atheist\", \"agnostic\", and \"No preference\". Army chaplains have blocked initial efforts.\n\nJason Torpy, who joined MAAF while a cadet at West Point and who is now a former Army Captain, now leads a board of five current and retired military officers. As of 2007 he was overseeing an organization of more vocal atheist members, \"in 15 countries, 45 states, and over 100 military installations and ships.\" Other recent efforts of the MAAF include public condemnation of the continued refusal by the Boy Scouts of America to accept non-believers. While the BSA claims to be a private organization with a legal right to discriminate, the MAAF calls for an end to federal support in the form of funding and free access to military bases. The MAAF logo includes the three colors Air Force Blue, Army Green, and Navy Blue. It represents the land, sea, and air missions of the group's membership and the three-part mission of providing \"atheists in foxholes\" with advocacy, community, and education.\n\nIn 2011 the MAAF including its local MASH Ft Bragg affiliate took on the Army's Comprehensive Soldier Fitness program for its take on spiritual fitness as a major factor in soldier readiness. Both Jason Torpy and Justin Griffith, now military director with American Atheists, argued that the Army's approach, and especially the Army's Spiritual Fitness website were unfairly and illegally sectarian, supporting Christianity over all other religious beliefs. When the overall fitness of Justin Griffith was questioned because of his score on the Spiritual Fitness portion, he took his complaint to the Military Religious Freedom Foundation (MRFF) and threatened legal action against this unconstitutional religious test. Although no major changes were made as a result of the complaints, the Army did remove a section from the Spiritual Fitness website which equated the military flag folding tradition with Christian religious tenets. The MAAF maintains a running review of violations and plans to turn its attention to new Spiritual Triage and Moral Injury applications of 'spirituality'.\n\nConfirmed to be several thousand, the current membership of MAAF is not publicly specified but the group's list of \"Atheists in Foxholes\" has topped 200 who wish to be publicly identified. More certain are the numbers of nonbelievers in the United States military in comparison to the number of chaplains of similar belief. In July, 2012 the MAAF published demographics from the United States Department of Defense that confirmed that atheists and agnostics in military ranks far outnumber several other groups, such as Hindus, Jews, Muslims, and Buddhists yet have no representation in the chaplain corps. This same study also showed that Evangelical Christians make up an inordinately large proportion of the chaplain corps when compared to the relatively small percentage of military members who hold such beliefs.\n\nIn July 2007, Major Freddy Welborn attended a meeting of atheist service members in Iraq under the umbrella of the MAAF and organized by Army Specialist Jeremy Hall. The Major reportedly forced attendees to stand at attention while he yelled at, berated and humiliated them. The Major accused them of plotting against Christians and threatened them with punishment before shutting down the meeting. Specialist Hall contacted the MAAF for assistance and was referred to the Military Religious Freedom Foundation. In October 2008, Specialist Hall voluntarily withdrew the lawsuit and there is no indication that any action was taken against Major Welborn.\n\nIn 2011 an affiliated group, the Fort Bragg Military Association of Secular Humanists (MASH) sought reciprocity after an Evangelical Christian ministry received military command funding to hold a concert at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Active duty Army Sergeant Justin Griffith sought to hold a similar event called Rock Beyond Belief but was initially refused the same level of support. The same group sought the appointment of atheist lay leaders to provide support for the atheist population at the very large Army base. At the same time, Jason Torpy and the MAAF continued efforts to implement humanist chaplains to support the many atheist, agnostics, and humanists on active duty. Senior chaplain officials responded with the argument that atheists were not a religious group and thus did not qualify for such duty. MAAF responded that humanist chaplains would do everything religious chaplains do, including counsel troops and help them follow their faiths. \"Humanism fills the same role for atheists that Christianity does for Christians and Judaism does for Jews,\" Torpy said in an interview. \"It answers questions of ultimate concern; it directs our values.\"\n\nIn October, 2012 the United States Army invited Torpy to speak at its twelfth annual Diversity Leadership conference at West Point. At this meeting he made his pitch for the addition of atheist or humanist chaplains. Included in the argument was the fact that the current chaplain corps is overly representative of the evangelical Christian faith along with a claim that atheist and others were being ignored.\n\nThe MAAF created some controversy in 2012 when Jason Torpy sought to remove a group of memorial crosses from a hilltop at Camp Pendleton, California. A set of three, 13 foot (4 meter), wooden crosses erected by a small group of Marines in 2003 had stood without controversy until a news story caught the attention of the MAAF. After threatening a lawsuit claiming violations of church-state separation, the Marine Corps Commandant was forced to decide whether it would stay or go. \"This wasn't intended to be a religious memorial, it was just intended to be able to provide a fitting and a dignified memorial to their fallen comrades and frankly controversy was the very last thing on their minds.\" said retired Marine Colonel Nick Marano. \"Marines and others who continue to come here to reflect will be sorry to see them go.\" MAAF addressed a long list of common concerns to distinguish its position from some of the attacks levied by opposition groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "191273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191273", "title": "Military aid to the civil power", "text": "Military aid to the civil power\n\nMilitary aid to the civil power (MACP) (sometimes to the civil authorities) is a term used to describe the use of the armed forces in support of the civil authorities of a state. The term is used in many countries, with slightly different definitions and implications in each.\n\nUnder certain circumstances, the Australian Defence Force can be called upon assist with law enforcement. State or Territory civilian police have primary responsibility for law and order. Under section 119 of the Constitution of Australia, \"The Commonwealth shall protect every State against invasion and, on the application of the Executive Government of the State, against domestic violence.\" This is further explained in section 51 of the Defence Act which states that:\nMilitary forces have been deployed twice on the request of State or Territory governments, and deployment authorised on one other occasion but not required:\n\nAustralian Military Regulations also allow the Federal government to use military forces \"on its own initiative, for the protection of its servants or property, or the safeguarding of its interests\". This has been done three times:\n\nIn addition, unarmed troops and defence force equipment have been used in industrial disputes, such as the 1949 Australian coal strike and the 1989 Australian pilots' dispute, under the \"safeguarding of its interests\" provisions.\n\nCanada has provisions, similar to the UK's Military Aid to the Civil Authorities, for military aid to the civil power inscribed in its National Defence Act, an historical inheritance from its days as a British dominion. However, the application is significantly different due to the federal nature of Canada, where the maintenance of \"law and order\" is the exclusive right and responsibility of the provinces.\n\nThe political authority empowered to requisition military aid is therefore the Solicitor General of the affected province, which was provided for under the War Measures Act and currently the Emergencies Act. This request is forwarded directly to the Chief of the Defence Staff (not to the federal government of Canada) who is obligated by law to execute the request. However, the Chief of the Defence Staff alone can determine the nature and level of forces to be committed.\n\nThe requesting province may subsequently be billed to pay the cost of the military aid, although the federal government most often waives it. One exception in recent years resulted from Toronto mayor Mel Lastman's request for military assistance following a snow storm in 1999, where at least 438 troops were deployed after the Ontario government acceded; this deployment was deemed by the Canadian government to be a trivialization of the military's emergency response role and the requesting authority was billed accordingly.\n\nWhile the military is legally free to decide how to deal with an issue in regard to which it has been called out, in practice it works under the direction of the police forces or government of the province that has requested its aid. Such requests are made relatively often for specialized resources such as armoured vehicles (e.g. hostage situations) and technical capabilities not possessed by police forces. \n\nThey are also called out in the case of police strikes in those provinces that have unionised provincial police forces. Quebec has not hesitated to call on the Army for such help because the Army is the only other agency with French speaking members able to replace striking police; the Royal Canadian Mounted Police has few reserves able to provide a \"surge\" capability, and its French-speaking capability is more limited.\n\nSignificant use of the Canadian Forces in aid of the Quebec civil power includes two relatively recent major civil crises:\n\nAs well, the Canadian military have been called in to deal with labour crises, such as cavalry troops shipped to Edmonton to deal with an expected unemployed riot in 1931 and armoured cars to use strikers at Stratford in 1934. As well, troops were used to put down domestic rebellions in 1837 (1837 rebellions), 1869 and 1885 (the first and second Riel rebellions).\n\nThe federal government can and does use the military in aid of its own responsibilities, such as guarding federal buildings and facilities. Since 1993, the Canadian Forces have also provided the country's federal counter-terrorist forces, replacing the Royal Canadian Mounted Police in that function. (See JTF2 for details of request and control of this capability).\n\nThe post-war constitution of Germany strictly forbids the use of military force in police functions. The functions that MACP has in other countries are carried out by special police forces, which are basically under the control of the state governments, not of the federal government. \n\nFor some actions, federal police forces can be used either by orders of the federal administration and federal judiciary or by request of the state government. The counter-terrorist unit GSG 9 is part of the Bundespolizei (until 2005 known as the \"Bundesgrenzschutz\") and is well known in Germany for its antiterrorist missions. However, several state police corps have similar units. The \"Bundesgrenzschutz\" and the GSG 9 were historically combatants and they had military ranks, but have always been under the control of the Ministry of the Interior. \n\nThis strict separation between civil and military power was enacted to prevent the army from becoming a political power again in internal affairs and to secure its subordination to the civil power. Since the 1990s, a number of conservative politicians has called for an abolition of this rule, but there seems to be no majority for such a change. \n\nBut a new law was passed in September 2004, the Air Security Act (). From September 24, 2004 until February 2005 there was an exception from the use of military force regarding air security: In a case of imminent danger, the Bundeswehr and its air force branch, the German Air Force were authorised to use force against an aircraft. \n\nAs ultima ratio, the Minister of Defense was empowered to give the order to shoot down an aircraft if the aircraft was used as a weapon against humans and there was no other way to repel the attack. Air policing is a traditional task of the German Air Force. However, the Luftsicherheitsgesetz was declared unconstitutional on February 15, 2006, by the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany (). The court held that no civil aircraft may be shot down, even if the aircraft is used as a weapon by terrorist. The court held that the passengers' dignity and right to life would be violated if the aircraft was shot down. \n\nIn 2012, the judged that the military may intervene in \"exceptional, imminent incidents of catastrophic scale\" as a last resort. In the case of a hijacked plane by terrorists, the German Air Force may force the plane back or fire warning shots – a downing of the plane remains forbidden, unless every passenger of the plane is a terrorist. Such a case of \"exceptional, imminent incidents of catastrophic scale\" has to be determined, as ruled by the in 2013, by the whole Cabinet of Germany (), declaring a regulation void that previously allowed the Federal Minister of Defence () to decide solely.\n\nIn Ireland, the Defence Forces provide assistance through Aid to the Civil Power (ATCP) arrangements to the Government of Ireland. The Army, Naval Service and Air Corps also provide Aid to Civil Community and Aid to Government departments, particularly in a supplementary role to the Garda Síochána, the national police force. Responsibilities include national security (Supplementing high risk prisoner escort, intelligence), cash escorts, explosive ordnance disposal, maritime safety, search and rescue, drug interdiction (Navy), fisheries protection (Navy), patrols of vital state installations and border patrols (including armed checkpoints), air ambulance service and non-combatant evacuation. Examples include; Garda Air Support Unit (GASU) aircraft being flown and maintained by Air Corps personnel, the Air Corps and Naval Service assisting in search and rescue (the Irish Coast Guard (IRCG) is a civilian agency which operates in the Republic of Ireland and some parts of Northern Ireland), the Army Ranger Wing (ARW) carrying out domestic counter-terrorism operations and the Directorate of Military Intelligence carrying out domestic counter-intelligence duties.\n\nIn 2008 the Italian Government decided to use soldiers from the Army, Navy and Air Force to patrol cities and protect risky buildings (embassies, consulates, monuments). When military personnel patrol cities they are always accompanied by an agent from the Polizia di Stato (State Police), a military from the Carabinieri or a military from Guardia di Finanza.\n\nCarabinieri are the 4th Armed force in Italy while Guardia di Finanza are a military body.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Military Aid to the Civil Power is one of the three classifications of Military Aid to the Civil Authorities. MACP encompasses the provision of military assistance (armed if necessary) in its maintenance of law, order and public safety using specialist capabilities or equipment in situations beyond the capability of the Civil Power. This includes capabilities such as Explosive Ordnance Disposal and mountain rescue (where it is provided by the Royal Air Force Mountain Rescue Service)\n\nCommander Home Command is the Standing Joint Commander responsible for the planning and execution of civil contingency operations within the UK landmass and territorial waters during any military aid to UK civil authorities.\n\nThe Posse Comitatus Act, passed in 1878, generally prohibits Federal military personnel (except the United States Coast Guard) and units of the United States National Guard under Federal authority from acting in a law enforcement capacity within the United States, except where expressly authorized by the Constitution or Congress.\n\nThe original act only referred to the Army, but the Air Force was added in 1956 and the Navy and Marine Corps have been included by a regulation of the Department of Defense. This law is mentioned whenever it appears that the Department of Defense is interfering in domestic disturbances.\n\nHowever, the National Guard may still be used for police-like duties if still under control of the state, as with the 1967 Detroit riot.\n\nRepeated caveats have been added to the Posse Comitatus Act over the years by subsequent legislation.\n\n"}
{"id": "9535332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9535332", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture &amp; Farmers Welfare", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture &amp; Farmers Welfare\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare (formerly Ministry of Agriculture), a branch of the Government of India, is the apex body for formulation and administration of the rules and regulations and laws related to agriculture in India. The three broad areas of scope for the Ministry are agriculture, food processing and co-operation. The agriculture ministry is headed by Minister of Agriculture Radha Mohan Singh. Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Krishna Raj and Parsottambhai Rupala are the Ministers of State.\n\nAgriculture is the principal source of livelihood for more than half population of India. Agriculture provides the bulk of wage goods required by non-agriculture sectors and most of the raw materials for the industries sector. India is a largely agrarian economy - with 52.1% of the population estimated to directly or indirectly employed in agriculture and allied sectors in 2009-10. The combined efforts of Central Government, State Governments and the farming community have succeeded in achieving record production of 244.78 million tonnes of foodgrains during 2010-11. This record production has been achieved through effective transfer of newly developed crop production technologies to farmers under various crop development schemes, such as the Agriculture MMP, which is run under the direction of the Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. Other causes behind record production include remunerative prices for various crops through enhanced minimum support prices. Agriculture in India is of significance because of this as well as a history of food shortages and a growing population.\n\nDepartment of Revenue and Agriculture and Commerce was set up in June 1871 to deal with all the agricultural matters in India. Until this ministry was established, matters related to agriculture were within the portfolio of the Home Department.\n\nIn 1881, Department of Revenue & Agriculture was set up to deal with combined portfolios of education, health, agriculture, revenue. However, In 1947, Department of Agriculture was redesignated as Ministry of Agriculture.\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and farmers Welfare consists of the following three Departments.\n\n\nThe administrative head of the Ministry are the Secretaries of the three departments.\n\nA leading program of the Ministry is the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana, which was launched in 2007 on the recommendations of the National Development Council of India. This program sought to improve the overall state of agriculture in India by providing stronger planning, better co-ordination and greater funding to improve productivity and overall output. The total budget for this program in 2009-10 was just over INR 38,000 crore.\n\nThe Ministry publishes an annual report titled \"Agricultural Statistics At a Glance\". This gives a detailed picture of the state of the India's agriculture including demographics of the agrarian sector, crop production (including state-wise and crop-wise break-ups), rural economic indicators such as credit, etc. The latest report has been published for 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58435496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58435496", "title": "Ministry of Culture, Information and Tourism (Kyrgyz Republic)", "text": "Ministry of Culture, Information and Tourism (Kyrgyz Republic)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture, Information and Tourism of the Kyrgyz Republic is the ministry in charge of preservation and promotion of Kyrgyzstani culture in the republic and abroad. The ministry has its roots from the Soviet Union's Ministry of Culture, although the current ministry did not succeed directly from the Soviet ministry. Moreover there were no ministries or state committees for tourism in the Soviet Union, because tourists to and from non-communist countries were highly restricted and few in numbers. \n\nThe ministry oversees various arts, cultural and historic sites in the republic, they include but are not limited to cinemas, circus, libraries, monuments, museums, musical institutions, parks, the National Cultural Center, the Philharmonic Hall and theaters. The ministry also oversees and regulates the republic's artists, as well as the education and promotion of Kyrgyz culture.\n\nThe ministry is subdivided into three departments:\nThis department is in charge of the regulation of the film industry in the Kyrgyz Republic as well as the promotion of the republic through films, some of which were showcased internationally. The department has also partnered the Prince Claus Fund for Culture and Development in establishing the Cinema Development Fund so as to enable local filmmakers to have better resources to produce films.\n\nThis department is in charge of the regulation of information made via mass media in the republic. An example of the department's scope of work include promoting and initiating the moving of local newspapers into electronic format.\n\nThis department is responsible for organising various cultural and tourism events across the country. These include the World Nomad Games which was held thrice in the republic, Apricot Festival and Karagat Festival. The department also actively promotes the republic's UNESCO world heritage sites in addition to establishing a VISA free regime for travellers from over 60 countries, so as to further boost the tourism sector and attract investment. The department has also joined various organisations like the World Tourism Organization so as learn about sustainability of tourists sites in the republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "735854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=735854", "title": "Model minority", "text": "Model minority\n\nA model minority is a demographic group (whether based on ethnicity, race or religion) whose members are perceived to achieve a higher degree of socioeconomic success than the population average. This success is typically measured relatively by income, education, low criminality and high family/marital stability.\n\nThe concept is controversial, as it has historically been used to suggest there is no need for government action to adjust for socioeconomic disparities between certain groups. This argument has most often been applied to contrast Asian-Americans (both South & East Asians) against African-Americans & Hispanic-Americans in America. Enforcing the idea that Asian Americans are good law-abiding, productive immigrants/ citizens. While promoting the stereotype that Hispanics and African-Americans are criminally prone, welfare recipient immigrant/ citizens.\n\nGeneralized statistics are often cited to back up model minority status such as high educational achievement and a high representation in white collar professions. A common misconception is that the affected communities usually hold pride in their labeling as the model minority. The model minority stereotype is considered detrimental to relevant minority communities because it is used to justify the exclusion of minorities in the distribution of assistance programs, both public and private, as well as to understate or slight the achievements of individuals within that minority. Furthermore, the idea of the model minority pits minority groups against each other by implying that non-model groups are at fault for falling short of the model minority level of achievement and assimilation. The concept has also been criticized by outlets such as NPR for potentially homogenizing the experiences of Asian Americans on one side and Hispanics & African Americans on the other, despite the different groups experiencing racism in different ways. The Model Minority stereotype, and the perpetuation of the belief that any minority has the capability to rise economically without assistance, also completely ignores the very different history of Asian Americans and African-Americans, and sometimes Hispanics, in the U.S.. Beginning with the legalized and widespread slavery of Africans that were kidnapped from Africa, then continuing with Black Codes, Jim Crow, and the new Jim Crow (the Prison-industrial complex). \n\nThe concept of \"model minority\" is heavily associated with U.S. culture and is not extensively used outside the U.S., though many European countries have concepts of classism that stereotype ethnic groups in a similar manner to model minority. \n\nOne of the earliest uses of the term \"model minority\" was in the 9 January 1966 edition of \"The New York Times Magazine\" by sociologist William Petersen to describe Asian Americans as ethnic minorities who, despite marginalization, have achieved success in the United States. In his essay called \"Success Story: Japanese American Style\", he wrote that the Japanese cultures have strong work ethics and family values. Furthermore, he wrote that those values prevent them from becoming a \"problem minority\". A similar article about Chinese Americans was published in \"U.S. News and World Report\" in December 1966.\nIn the 1980s, almost all major U.S. magazines and newspapers printed success stories of Asian Americans.\n\nHowever, in the 1970s and 1980s, many scholars challenged the model minority stereotype. B. Suzuki published \"Education and the Socialization of Asian Americans: A Revisionist Analysis of the 'Model Minority Thesis\". In the paper, he disagrees with how the media is portraying Asian Americans. He explains the sociohistorical background and the contemporary social system, and argues that the Model Minority stereotype is a myth.\n\nSome have described the creation of the model minority theory as partially a response to the emergence of the Civil Rights Movement, when African Americans fought for equal rights and the discontinuation of racial segregation in the United States. In a backlash to the movement, white America presented and used Asian Americans to argue that African Americans could raise up their communities by focusing on education and accepting and conforming to racial segregation and the institutional racism and discrimination of the time period, as Asian Americans have arguably done.\n\nDisregarding the fact that Asian Americans at the time were also marginalized and racially segregated in America thus they also represented lower economic levels and faced many social issues just as other racial and ethnic minorities. The possible reasons as to why Asian Americans were used by White America as this image of a model minority are that they were viewed as having not been as much of a \"threat\" to White America due to less of a history of political activism in fighting racism (until after the Black Civil Rights movement, see asian American movement), their smaller population, the success of their numerous businesses (nearly all of which were small businesses) in their segregated communities, and the fact that during the time period Chinese, Japanese and Filipino Americans' educational attainment level was meeting the national average equaling Whites in terms of education.\n\nSince the creation of the model minority stereotype, Asian Americans have now exceeded White Americans in terms of education as well as many other racial and ethnic groups in American society and Asian Americans (as a whole) have obtained the highest educational attainment level and median household income of any racial and ethnic demographic in the country a position that African Immigrants and Americans born of those immigrants have now started to outperform in.\n\nThose who resisted the stereotype in the early stages back in the 1960s-1980's could not gain enough support to combat the stereotype, because of the stereotype's so-called \"positive\" connotations. This led many even within the Asian American community at the time to view it either as a welcomed positive stereotype in contrast to years of negative stereotypes, or as a euphemistic stereotype that was no more than a mere annoyance. They did not foresee the negative repercussions to come from this stereotype. Many critics point out that there are more positives than negatives that come with this stereotype while many others believe that there are just as many negatives that come with this stereotype as there are positives and that no stereotype regardless of how positive they try to be or how positive their connotations are should be regarded as a good stereotype. Scientific studies have revealed that positive stereotypes have many negative and damaging consequences both socially and psychologically.\n\nA few years after the article on Asian Americans being the model minority was published, Asian Americans formed their own movement that fought for their own equal rights and resolution of their own specific social issues, modeling it after the Civil Rights Movement thus effectively challenging White America and the social construct of racial discrimination.\n\nIn the United States, the term was coined to first describe the socioeconomic success of Japanese Americans, although it has eventually evolved to become associated with American Jews and Asian Americans, but more specifically with East Asians (Chinese, Japanese, and Koreans) and Indians. The concept of a model minority has faced backlash from the Asian American community. According to Asian Americans Advancing Justice - Los Angeles, \"the misperception that Asian Americans are doing fine on their own has serious policy implications... politicians won't talk about our community's needs if they assume people don't require assistance.\" According to the \"Washington Post\", since the 1960s, \"the idea that Asian Americans are distinct among minority groups and immune to the challenges faced by other people of color is a particularly sensitive issue for the community, which has recently fought to reclaim its place in social justice conversations with movements like #ModelMinorityMutiny\".\n\nThere has been a significant change in the perceptions of Asian Americans. In as little as 100 years of American history, stereotypes of East Asian Americans have changed from them being viewed as poor uneducated laborers to being portrayed as a hard working and a well educated upper middle class minority. As many White Americans erroneously assumed that their perseverance, strong work ethic, and general determination to succeed were extensions of their supposedly quiet natures, rather than common characteristics among most immigrants, Asian Americans came to be viewed as \"model minorities\". Among South Asian Americans, an example of the model minority stereotype are phenomena such as the high rates of educational attainment and above average household incomes in the Indian American community. Pointing to generalized data, another argument for the model minority stereotype is generalized data such as from the United States Census Bureau, where the median household income of Asian Americans is $68,780, higher than the total population's $50,221. Although some Asian American subgroups including East Asians and South Asians are economically successful, other Asian American subgroups such as Southeast Asian Americans which include Hmong, Laotians, Cambodians, and Vietnamese, are less socioeconomically successful.\n\nThe model minority model also points to the percentage of Asian Americans at elite universities (elite university being roughly defined as a school in the Top 40 according to U.S. News & World Report.) Model minority proponents claim that while Asian Americans are only 5% of the U.S. population, they are over-represented at all these schools. Additionally, Asian Americans go on to win a high proportion of Nobel Prizes. Of the 20 American physicists to win a Nobel Prize in the 21st century, East Asian Americans, who represent less than 4 percent of the U.S. population, have won 15 percent of prizes. Additionally, three science Nobel prizes have been won by Indian-Americans.\n\nAsian American students are concentrated in a very small percentage of institutions, in only eight states (and half concentrated in California, New York and Texas). Moreover, as more Asian Americans become Americanized and assimilated, more Asian American students are beginning to attend two-year community colleges (363,798 in 2000) than four-year public universities (354,564 in 2000), and this trend of attending community college is accelerating. Unsurprisingly, West Coast academic institutions are amongst those that have the highest concentrations of Asian Americans.\n\nThe most highly educated group of Asian immigrants are Indian. The low numbers for Southeast Asians can be a bit misleading, as a large percent comes from adult immigrants who came to the United States without any college education due to war. For ages 25 to 34, 45% of Vietnamese-Americans have a bachelor's degree or higher compared to 39% of Non-Hispanic Whites.\n\nDue to the impacts of the Model minority stereotype, unlike other minority serving institutions, Asian American Pacific Islander serving institutions (AAPISI) did not receive federal recognition until 2007, with the passage of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act, which federally recognized the existence of AAPISIs, making them eligible for federal funding and designation as minority serving institutions.\n\nAccording to the Federal Bureau of Investigation's 2003 report \"Crime in the United States\", Asian Americans have the lowest total arrest rates despite a younger average age, and high family stability.\n\nThe model minority label also includes South Asian communities, in particular, Indian Americans, because of their high socioeconomic success. But, Indian-Asians face a type of racism and discrimination, despite their Model Minority status, that other Asians do not face. One of the forms of this is discrimination based on religion, whether that be Hinduism or Islam - it influences their treatment. Often times, South Asians in America face racism that that is a result of mislabeling like being called Middle-Eastern or Muslim by the way they look, whether they actually identify with those groups. Another is discrimination based on skin color, which South and South-East Asians face because some tend to be darker skinned. So while South and South-East Asians reap \"some\" benefits of their Model Minority status, this does not mean they do not suffer harmful stereotypes as well and this further proves the harmful classification of all Asian-Americans into a \"Model Minority\". The mass grouping of all different Asian ethnicities into one \"positive\" stereotype deligimatizes the problems that certain Asian immigrants face, because the majority might not face those same negative stereotypes. Another result of the Model Minority status of Indian-Asians is their complacency, expressed more often than not. There is conflict within the Indian-Asian immigrant population in the US, as some exalt their \"positive\" minority status and wish to uphold it, resulting in complacency when attacked racially and even sometimes going as far as to support political candidates that are anti-immigration. The other side of the conflict is those who are effected by racial stereotypes and wish to change that fact instead of accepting it, who believe they should essentially give up their coveted status to stand with other ethnic and racial minority groups against their common white oppressor. \n\nAccording to the census report on Asian Americans issued in 2004 by the U.S. Census Bureau, 64% of Indian Americans had a bachelor's degree or higher, the second highest for all national origin groups. In the same census, 60% of Indian-Americans had management or professional jobs, compared with a national average of 33%. Indian Americans, along with Japanese and Filipino Americans, have some of the lowest poverty rates for all communities, as well as one of the lowest rates of single parent households (7% versus the national average of 15%). Indian Americans also earn the highest average income out of all national origin/ethnic groups. This has resulted in several stereotypes such as that of the \"Indian Doctor\".\n\nIt should however be noted that there are still pockets of poverty within the community, with around 8% classified as living in poverty.\n\nThe experience of Southeast Asian American populations in the U.S. is cited as evidence that the model minority image is a myth. Southeast Asian Americans consist of several ethnic groups, including Thai, Vietnamese, Hmong, Lao, and Cambodian. An empirical literature review shows that most of the existing data used to justify the model minority image with Asian American academic achievement is aggregated and as a result, ignores important differences among individual Asian ethnic groups. Although many Asian Americans have succeeded academically and socioeconomically, survey research have shown that more recently immigrant groups, such as Southeast Asians, have been unable to replicate such success. According to the U.S. Census in 2000, the overall U.S. population for people 25 years and over with less than a high school education was 19.6% and Asian Americans were close at 19.4%; however, disparities exist when comparing South and East Asian Americans with Southeast Asian Americans. Only 12.5% of Chinese Americans, 8.6% of Japanese Americans, and 14.6% of South Asian Americans that are 25 years or over have less than a high school education. In contrast, Southeast Asian Americans more than double South and East Asian American percentages with 52% of Cambodian Americans, 59% of Hmong Americans, 49% of Lao Americans, and 38% of Vietnamese Americans ages 25 and over have less than a high school education. Looking at higher education, the 2000 U.S. Census showed that 42.7% of Asian Americans ages 25 and over held a bachelor's degree or higher, which is higher than the national percentage of 25.9% of Americans overall. In contrast, individual Southeast Asian American groups ages 25 and over that held a bachelor's degree or higher consist of 9.1% of Cambodian Americans, 7.4% of Hmong Americans, 7.6% of Lao Americans, and 19.5% of Vietnamese Americans. With the exception of Vietnamese Americans, these proportions are lower than other racial minorities including African Americans (14.2%) and Latino Americans (10.3%). As cited in an empirical literature review, research that lacks differentiation between the varying Asian ethnic groups can mask under-performing groups by the higher performing groups. Generally speaking, Southeast Asian American students are overlooked due to the overwhelming success of their East and South Asian American peers.\n\nAs cited in a case study, many of the deficits of Southeast Asian American students' academic achievement can be attributed to many structural barriers of living in an immigrant household. Many Southeast Asian American students are children of refugees from countries at war. These refugees were forced to escape from their homes to avoid death and persecution; along the way, many witnessed the loss of family members and friends. Those who survived often arrive in the U.S. with fragmented families and were faced with more barriers as they had to rely on government assistance and were placed in low-income communities near poorly funded schools. As these families try to establish themselves in a new country with little to no understanding of the U.S. school system, Southeast Asian students are at a disadvantage having to quickly adjust to a new school system, while trying to keep up with native-born students. Inside and outside the school systems, Southeast Asians were faced with discrimination. These are examples of structural barriers that Southeast Asian American students are faced with.\n\nHowever, not all is grim for Southeast Asian American students. Certain Southeast Asian ethnic groups have shown greater progress compared to others and resemble the success of other more established Asian Americans. As cited a case study, Vietnamese American students are beginning to show similar rates of academic success comparable to East Asian American students. Among Southeast Asian American students, Vietnamese American students are recognized as having the highest academic performance, whereas Cambodian American students have the poorest performance. Among Cambodian and Vietnamese refugees, despite enduring similar immigration hardships, differences in academic success can be attributed to structural and cultural factors.\n\nTaiwanese Americans from all social backgrounds have achieved significant advances in their educational levels, income, life expectancy and other social indicators as the financial and socioeconomic opportunities offered by the United States have lifted many Taiwanese Americans out of poverty into the ranks of America's educated and upper middle class. Estimates indicate that a disproportionate percentage of Taiwanese students attend elite universities despite constituting less than 0.5% of the U.S. population. Taiwanese Americans have the highest education attainment level in the United States, surpassing any other ethnic group in the country, according to U.S Census Bureau data released in 2010. According to the 2010 Labor Statistics from U.S. Census Bureau, 73.6% of all Taiwanese Americans have attained a bachelor's or high degree (compared to 28.2% nationally and 49.9% for all Asian American groups). 80.0% of Taiwanese American men attained a bachelor's degree and 68.3% of Taiwanese American women attained a bachelor's degree. 39.1% of all Taiwanese in the United States possess a master's, doctorate or other professional degree, which is nearly four times the national average.\n\nOften overlooked is the direct contrast of Model Minorities with Black Americans. Model Minorities are used as a tool to discriminate against Black people with the mantra \"If they can do it, why cant you?\". This argument is often viewed as logical, because at the surface, there doesn't seem to be a clear cut explanation for why Jews, Asians, and Irish people are able to thrive after experiencing racism, but Blacks still seem to be disenfranchised.  What this argument often ignores, is the unique experience of Black people in America, namely, they are the only minority who had been enslaved on U.S. soil for centuries. Some scholars also explain the differing successes of Asian immigrants and Blacks on the specific types of racism they experience. Essentially racism in itself is not monolithic, and is perpetrated in different ways and different arenas of life, some arenas where anti-Black rhetoric exist prove to be more harmful to Black personhood than situations in which anti-Asian discrimination exists.\n\nMedia coverage of the increasing success of Asian Americans as a group began in the 1960s, reporting high average test scores and marks in school, winning national spelling bees, and high levels of university attendance.\n\nIn 1988, the writer Philip K. Chiu identified the prevalence of the model minority stereotype in American media reports on Chinese Americans, and noted the contrast between that stereotype and what he observed as the reality of the Chinese American population, which was much more varied than the model minority stereotype in the media typically presented.\nI am fed up with being stereotyped as either a subhuman or superhuman creature. Certainly I am proud of the academic and economic successes of Chinese Americans ... But it's important for people to realize that there is another side. ... It is about time for the media to report on Chinese Americans the way they are. Some are superachievers, most are average citizens, and a few are criminals. They are only human—no more and no less.\n\nOne possible cause of the higher performance of Asian Americans as a group is that they represent a small population in America so those who are chosen to move to America often come from a selective group of Asians. The relative difficulty of emigrating and immigrating into the United States has created a selective nature of the process with the U.S. often choosing the wealthier and more highly educated out of those with less resources, motivation or ability to immigrate.\n\nCultural factors are thought to be part of the reason why Asian Americans are successful in the United States. East Asian societies often place more resources and emphasis on education. For example, Confucian tenets and Chinese culture places great value on work ethic and the pursuit of knowledge. In traditional Chinese social stratification, scholars were ranked at the top—well above businessmen and landowners. This view of knowledge is evident in the modern lifestyle of many Asian American families, where the whole family puts emphasis on education and parents will make it their priority to push their children to study and achieve high marks. Similar cultural tendencies and values are found in South Asian American families, whose children similarly face extra pressure by parents to succeed in school and to achieve high-ranked jobs. Although pressure is often perceived as a way to help Asian American descendants achieve greater success, it can be used as a way to provide better income and living status for families. In other words, much of the Asian American success in the United States can be due to the stereotypical yet favorable characteristics that their background holds. In most cases, the top Asians including Japanese, Chinese, and Korean Americans hold a high position in terms of successful educational goals.\n\nOthers counter this notion of culture as a driving force, as it ignores immigration policies. In the mid 1800s in the United States, Asian immigrants were recruited as laborers for agriculture and to aid in the building of the first transcontinental railroad. Many worked for low wages in the harshest conditions. Confucian values were not seen as a key to success. It was only until the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 changed the way Asians were seen, as Asians with higher education backgrounds were selectively chosen from a larger pool of the Asian population.\n\nFurther, it has also been argued the myth of the Confucian emphasis on education is counterfactual. It also implies Asians are a monolithic group, and ignores the fact that the most educated group of Asian immigrants in the U.S. are Indians, for whom Confucius is non-existent in their upbringing. It has also been argued that self-selecting immigrants do not represent the actual Asian American population as a whole, nor the populations of their home countries. While 50 percent of Chinese immigrants in the U.S. have a bachelor's degree, only 5 percent of the population does in their native China. Lastly, if Confucian culture played a vital part of Asian culture, Chinese immigrant children would perform consistently around the world, yet second-generation Chinese immigrants are the lowest academic achievers among immigrant groups in Spain, less than half are expected to graduate from middle school.\n\nIn the 1980s, one Ivy League school found evidence it had limited admissions of Asian American students. Because of their high degree of success as a group and over-representation in many areas such as college admissions, most Asian Americans are not granted preferential treatment by affirmative action policies as are other minority groups.\n\nSome schools choose lower-scoring applicants from other racial groups over Asian Americans in an attempt to promote racial diversity and to maintain some proportion to the society's racial demographics.\n\nIn 2014, American business schools began a process to sort candidates based on their country of origin and region of the world they come from. The cause was a high disparity in scores on the quantitative portion of the GMAT: Asian Americans, specifically South Asians and East Asians, scored 7 points higher than the worldwide average and 12 points higher than American applicants. Admissions officers now use score segregation to rank and compare similar students.\n\nAccording to Gordon H. Chang: The reference to Asian Americans as model minorities has to do with the work ethic, respect for elders, and high valuation of family and elders present in their culture. The Model Minority stereotype also comes with an underlying notion of their apoliticality. Such a label one-dimensionalizes Asian Americans as having only traits based around stereotypes and no other human qualities, such as vocal leadership, negative emotions (e.g. anger or sadness), sociopolitical activeness, risk taking, ability to learn from mistakes, desire for creative expression, intolerance towards oppression or being overlooked of their acknowledgements and successes. Asian Americans are labeled as model minorities because they have not been as much of a \"threat\" to the U.S. political establishment as blacks, due to a smaller population and less political advocacy. This label seeks to suppress potential political activism through euphemistic stereotyping.\n\nAnother effect of the stereotype is that American society may tend to ignore the racism and discrimination Asian Americans still face. Complaints are dismissed with the claim that the racism which occurs to Asian Americans is less important than or not as bad as the racism faced by other minority races, thus establishing a systematic racial hierarchy. Believing that due to their success and that they possess so-called \"positive\" stereotypes, many assume they face no forms of racial discrimination or social issues in the greater American society, and that their community is fine, having \"gained\" social and economic equality.\n\nRacial discrimination can take subtle forms such as through microaggression. The stereotyping of Asian Americans as a model minority and perfidious foreigner influences people's perceptions and attitudes towards Asians and also negatively affects students' academic outcomes, relationships with others, and psychological adjustments. For instance, discrimination and model minority stereotyping are linked to Asian American students' lower valuing of school, lower self-esteem, and higher depressive symptoms. Furthermore, the psychological distress of failing to meet the model minority image, such as feelings of inadequacy, self-doubt, shame, and embarrassment, is exacerbated due to the differential treatment associated with being stereotyped as a model minority and perpetual foreigner.\n\nFurthermore, the model minority image can be a threat to underachieving Asian American students' academic experience and educational advancement. It promotes invisibility and disguises the academic barriers and psychological problems students may encounter. This is problematic because it creates a barrier for educators to better understand and assist struggling students' educational and mental health needs in order to optimize students' academic experience and social emotional development.\n\nAsian Americans may also be commonly stereotyped by the general public as being studious, intelligent, successful, elitist, brand name conscious, yet paradoxically passive. As a result, higher and unreasonable expectations are often associated with Asian Americans. Also due to the model minority image, Asian American students are viewed as \"problem-free\" and academically competent students who can succeed with little support and without special services. This emphasis that Asian Americans are being denial by their racial reality because of the assumption that \"Asians are the new Whites\"; therefore, they are being dismissed by their intelligence and experiences. Thus, educators may overlook the instructional needs and psychological concerns of underachieving Asian American students. The model minority stereotype can also contribute to teachers' having a \"blaming the victims\" perspective. This means that teachers blame students, their culture, or their families for students' poor performance or misbehavior in school. This is problematic because it shifts responsibility away from schools and teachers and misdirects attention away from finding a solution to improve students' learning experience and alleviate the situation. Furthermore, the model minority stereotype has a negative impact on the home environment. Parents' expectations place high pressure on students to achieve, creating a stressful, school-like home environment. Parents' expressed worry and frustration can also place emotional burdens and psychological stress on students.\n\nSome educators hold Asian students to a higher standard. This deprives those students with learning disabilities from being given attention that they need. The connotations of being a model minority mean Asian students are often labeled with the unpopular \"nerd\" or \"geek\" image. Asians have been the target of harassment, bullying, and racism from other races due to the racially divisive model minority stereotype.\n\nThe higher expectations placed on East Asians as a result of the model minority stereotype carries over from academics to the workplace.\n\nThe model minority stereotype is emotionally damaging to many Asian Americans, since there are unjustified expectations to live up to stereotypes of high achievement. The pressures from their families to achieve and live up to the model minority image have taken a tremendous mental and psychological toll on young Asian Americans.\n\nThe model minority stereotype also influences Asian American students' psychological outcomes and academic experience. The model minority image can lead underachieving Asian American students to minimize their own difficulties and experience anxiety or psychological distress about their academic difficulties. Asian American students also have more negative attitudes toward seeking academic or psychological help due to fear of shattering the high expectations of teachers, parents, and classmates.\n\nOverall, the model minority stereotype has negative effects on underachieving Asian students in both their home and school settings. It is a threat to Asian American students' academic experience and can disguise students' educational and mental health needs. Psychological distress from model minority stereotyping is related to the stressors associated with the pressure to succeed, differential treatment, and embarrassment or shame to seek help. With this information, a recommendation for schools is to promote a more inclusive and less competitive learning environment, so students will not be ashamed and afraid to ask for help. Administrators can also improve school climate by monitoring incidents of racial harassment and discrimination. Additionally, to better address struggling students' educational and mental health needs, educators can regularly check in with students and engage in culturally responsive teaching, aimed to understand students' unique circumstances and educational needs.\n\nAfrican immigrants and Americans born to African immigrants have been described as an \"Invisible Model Minority\" mainly due to their high degree of success in the United States, but due to misconceptions and stereotypes of them, their success has not been acknowledged by the greater American society and other Western societies and thus they are \"invisible\". The invisibility of the success of Africans was touched upon by Dr. Kefa M. Otiso, an academic professor from Bowling Green State University, who stated that \"[B]ecause these immigrants come from a continent that is often cast in an unfavorable light in the U.S. media, there is a tendency for many Americans to miss the vital contribution of these immigrants to meeting critical U.S. domestic labor needs, enhancing American global economic and technological competitiveness\".\n\nIn the 2000 U.S. census, it was revealed that African Immigrants were the most educated immigrant group in the United States even when compared to Asian immigrants. Some 48.9 percent of all African immigrants hold a college diploma. This is more than double the rate of native-born white Americans, and nearly four times the rate of native-born African Americans. According to the 2000 Census, the rate of college diploma acquisition is highest among Egyptian Americans at 59.7 percent, followed closely by Nigerian Americans at 58.6 percent.\n\nIn 1997, 19.4 percent of all adult African immigrants in the United States held a graduate degree, compared to 8.1 percent of adult white Americans and 3.8 percent of adult black Americans in the United States. According to the 2000 Census, the percentage of Africans with a graduate degree is highest among Nigerian Americans at 28.3 percent, followed by Egyptian Americans at 23.8 percent.\n\nOf the African-born population in the United States age 25 and older, 87.9% reported having a high school degree or higher, compared with 78.8% of Asian-born immigrants and 76.8% of European-born immigrants, respectively.\n\nThis success comes in spite of facts such as that more than 75 percent of the African foreign born in the United States have only arrived since the 1990s and that African immigrants make up a disportionately small percentage of immigrants coming to the United States such as in 2007 alone African immigrants made up only 3.7 percent of all immigrants in coming to the United States and again in 2009 they made up only 3.9 percent of all immigrants making this group a fairly recent to the United States diversity.\n\nOf the 8 percent of the Ivy League Universities' such as Princeton population which are Black students at an overwhelming 50-66 percent was made up of Black African immigrants, Caribbean immigrants, and American born to those immigrants. Many top universities report that a disproportionate of the black student population consists of recent immigrants, their children, or were mixed race.\n\nThe overrepresentation of the highly skilled can be seen in the relatively high share of Black African immigrants with at least a four-year college degree. In 2007, 27 percent of the U.S. population aged 25 and older had a four-year degree or more; 10 percent had a master's, doctorate, or professional degree. Immigrants from several Anglophone African countries were among the best educated: a majority of Black Immigrants from Nigeria, Cameroon, Uganda, Tanzania, and Zimbabwe had at least a four-year degree. Immigrants from Egypt, where the official language is Arabic, were also among the best educated. The overrepresentation of the highly skilled among U.S. immigrants is particularly striking for several of\nAfrica's largest source countries. The United States was the destination for 59 percent of Nigeria's highly skilled immigrants along with 47 percent of those from Ghana and 29 percent from Kenya.\n\nThe average annual personal income of African immigrants is about $26,000, nearly $2,000 more than that of workers born in the U.S. This might be because 71 percent of the Africans 16 years and older are working, compared to 64 percent of Americans. This is believed to be due larger percentage of African immigrants have higher educational qualifications than Americans, which results in higher per capita incomes for African immigrants and Americans born to African immigrants.\n\nOutside of educational success specific groups have found economic success and have made many contributions to American society such as Ugandan Americans. Recent statistics indicate that Ugandans have become one of the country's biggest contributors to the economy, their contribution, amounting to US$1 billion in annual remittances which are disproportionately large contributions despite a community and population of less than 13,000.\n\nAfrican immigrants like many other immigrant groups are likely to establish and find success in small businesses. Many Africans that have seen the social and economic stability that comes from ethnic enclaves such as Chinatowns have recently been establishing ethnic enclaves of their own at much higher rates to reap the benefits of such communities.\n\nDemographically African Immigrants and Americans born of African immigrants tend to typically congregate in urban areas, moving to suburban areas over the next few generations as they try to acquire economic and social stability. They are also one of America's least likely groups to live in racially segregated areas.\n\nAfrican Immigrants and Americans born of African immigrants have been reported as having some of the lowest crime rates in the United States and being one of the unlikeliest groups to go into or commit crime. African immigrants have even been reported to have lowered crime rates in neighborhoods in which they have moved into.\n\nBlack immigrants from Black majority countries are revealed to be much healthier than Blacks from countries that are not majority Black and where they constitute a minority. Thus African immigrants are often much healthier than American-born Blacks and Black immigrants from Europe.\n\nCultural factors have been proposed as an explanation for the success of African immigrants. For example, it is claimed they often integrate into American society more successfully and at higher rates than other immigrants groups due to social factors. One being that many African immigrants have strong English skills even before entering the U.S., many African nations, particularly former British colonies, use English as a lingua franca. Because of this, many African immigrants to the U.S. are bilingual. Overall, 70 percent of Black African immigrants either speak English as their primary language or speak another language but are also fluent in English. Compare this to 48% \"proficiency\" in English for other immigrant groups.\n\nKefa M. Otiso has proposed another reason for the success of African immigrants, saying that they have a \"high work ethic, focus and a drive to succeed that is honed and crafted by the fact that there are limited socioeconomic opportunities in their native African countries,\" says Otiso.\n\nAnother possible cause of the higher performance of African immigrants as a group is that they represent a small population here in America so those who are chosen to come here often come from a selective group of African people. The relative difficulty of emigrating and immigrating into the United States has created a selective nature of the process with the U.S. often choosing the wealthier and more educated out of those with less resources, motivation or ability to immigrate.\n\nDespite African immigrants being highly educated many often find it hard to become employed in high level occupations. Most instead have to work in labor jobs to subsist and maintain a decent life. Often it is left to their children to take up these higher positions. This desire to succeed is then transferred onto second generation African immigrants. These Americans often report that their families pushed them very hard to strive for success and overachieve in many aspects of society, especially education. African immigrants put a premium on education because of the limited socioeconomic opportunities they experienced in their native countries. Consequently, they often allocate more resources towards it.\n\nThis pushing of second generation African immigrants by their parents has proven to be the key factor in their success, and a combination of family support and the emphasis of family unit has given these citizens social and psychological stability which makes them strive even further for success in many aspects of their daily life and society.\n\nMany of these American groups have thus transplanted high cultural emphasis on education and work ethic into their cultures which can be seen in the cultures of Algerian Americans, Kenyan Americans, Sierra Leonean Americans, Ghanaian Americans, Malawian Americans, Congolese Americans, Tanzanian Americans, and especially Nigerian and Egyptian Americans.\n\nOther than in the United States, Africans have experienced success in numerous other countries especially Commonwealth countries such as Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom, which have attracted many educated and highly skilled African immigrants with enough resources for them to start a new life in these countries.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, one report has revealed that African immigrants have high rates of employment and that African immigrants are doing better economically than some other immigrant groups. Africans have obtained much success as entrepreneurs, many owning and starting many successful businesses across the country. Of the African immigrants, certain groups have become and are highly integrated into the country especially groups which have strong English language skills such as Zimbabweans or Nigerians, and they often come from highly educated and highly qualified backgrounds. Many African immigrants have low levels of unemployment, and some groups are known for their high rates of self-employment, as can be seen in the case of Nigerian immigrants. Certain groups outside of having strong English skills have found success mostly because many who immigrated to the UK are already highly educated and highly skilled professionals who come with jobs and positions such as business people, academics, traders, doctors and lawyers as is the case with Sudanese immigrants.\n\nAs of 2013, Nigerian immigrants were among the nine immigrant populations that were above average academically in the UK. Euromonitor International for the British Council suggests that the high academic achievement by Nigerian students is mainly from most of the pupils already having learned English in their home country. Additionally, many of them hail from the wealthier segments of Nigerian society, which can afford to pursue studies abroad. A notable example of the highly educated nature of British Nigerians is the case of Paula and Peter Imafidon, nine-year-old twins who are the youngest students ever to be admitted to high school in England. Nicknamed the 'Wonder Twins', the twins and other members of their family have accomplished incredible rare feats, passing advanced examinations and being accepted into institutions with students twice their age.\n\nIn Israel, Christian Arabs are one of the most educated groups. Maariv has described the Christian Arab sectors as \"the most successful in education system\", since Christian Arabs fared the best in terms of education in comparison to any other group receiving an education in Israel. and they have attained a bachelor's degree and academic degree more than the median Israeli population.\n\nAccording to the study \"Are Christian Arabs the New Israeli Jews? Reflections on the Educational Level of Arab Christians in Israel\" by Hanna David from the University of Tel Aviv, one of the factors why Israeli Arab Christians are the most educated segment of Israel's population is the high level of the Christian educational institutions. Christian schools in Israel are among the best schools in the country, and while those schools represent only 4% of the Arab schooling sector, about 34% of Arab university students come from Christian schools, and about 87% of the Israeli Arabs in the high tech sector have been educated in Christian schools. A 2011 Maariv article described the Christian Arab sector as \"the most successful in the education system\", an opinion supported by the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics and others who point out that Christian Arabs fared best in terms of education in comparison to any other group receiving an education in Israel.\n\nThe Israel Central Bureau of Statistics noted that when taking into account the data recorded over the years, Christian Arabs fared the best in terms of education in comparison to any other group receiving an education in Israel. In 2016 Christian Arabs had the highest rates of success at matriculation examinations, namely 73.9%, both in comparison to Muslim and Druze Israelis (41% and 51.9% respectively), and to the students from the different branches of the Hebrew (majority Jewish) education system considered as one group (55.1%).\n\nChristian Arabs are one of the most educated groups in Israel. Statistically, Christian Arabs in Israel have the highest rates of educational attainment among all religious communities, according to a data by Israel Central Bureau of Statistics in 2010, 63% of Israeli Christian Arabs have had college or postgraduate education, the highest of any religious and ethno-religious group. Despite the fact that Arab Christians only represent 2.1% of the total Israeli population, in 2014 they accounted for 17.0% of the country's university students, and for 14.4% of its college students. There are more Christians who have attained a bachelor's degree or higher academic degrees than the median Israeli population.\n\nThe rate of students studying in the field of medicine was higher among Christian Arab students than that of all other sectors. and the percentage of Arab Christian women who are receiving higher education is also higher than that of other groups.\n\nIn 2013, Arab Christian students were also the vanguard in terms of eligibility for higher education, as the Christian Arab students had the highest rates of receiving Psychometric Entrance Test scores which eligible them to be accepted into universities, data from the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics show that 61% of Christian Arabs were eligible for university studies, compared to 50% of Jewish, 45% of Druze, and 35% of Muslim students.\n\nIn terms of their socio-economic situation, Arab Christians are more similar to the Jewish population than to the Muslim Arab population. They have the lowest incidence of poverty and the lowest percentage of unemployment which is 4.9% compared to 6.5% among Jewish men and women. They have also the highest median household income among Arab citizens of Israel and second highest median household income among the Israeli ethno-religious groups. Also Arab Christians have a high presentation in science and in the white collar professions. In Israel Arab Christians are portrayed as a hard working and upper middle class educated ethno-religious minority.\n\nIn Canada, Asian Canadians are somewhat viewed as a model minority, though the phenomenon is not as widespread as it is in the United States. Majority of this aimed toward the East Asian Community.\n\nIn Mexico, German Mexicans and Lebanese Mexicans are seen as model minorities.\n\nGerman Mexicans have been so deeply assimilated and ingrained into Mexican society that German cultural heritage and influences can be found throughout all parts of Mexico and Mexican society. German cultural events such as Oktoberfest can usually be seen in several major cities with significant Mexican-German communities throughout the country, including Mexico City, Chihuahua, and Victoria de Durango. Colegio Alemán Alexander von Humboldt in Mexico City is the largest German-based school outside of Germany itself. Major German roots and influences are particularly strong in Mexican music, due to the large German immigration to Texas and northern Mexico around the 1830s.\n\nToday, there are various styles of music that descended in part from German music and they are Tejano, Conjunto, Tex-Mex, Quebradita, Banda, Ranchera, and Norteño. These musical styles are especially popular in northern Mexico and in places of the United States where there is a large Mexican immigrant population. German Mexicans were instrumental and played a crucial part in the development of the cheese and brewing industries in Mexico. German influence can be seen as having had a lasting impact on Mexican beers, with brands such as Negra Modelo and Dos Equis Ambar, both deriving from Vienna-style lager. It was German brewing styles that helped cement brewing as a Mexican cultural trait and enterprise.\n\nAlthough Lebanese Mexicans made up less than 5% of the total immigrant population in Mexico during the 1930s, they constituted half of the immigrant economic activity.\nLebanese influence in Mexican culture can be seen most particularly in food, where they have introduced many foods and dishes and created their own recipes such as \"tacos Árabes\".\n\nCarlos Slim, formerly the richest man in the world (currently the second richest in the world), is an example of Lebanese Mexican success in Mexican society.\n\nVietnamese in France are the most well-established overseas Vietnamese community outside eastern Asia as well as Asian ethnic group in France. While the level of integration among immigrants and their place in French society have become prominent issues in France in the past decade, French media and politicians generally view the Vietnamese community as a model minority. This is in part because they are represented as having a high degree of integration within French society as well as their economic and academic success. A survey in 1988 asking French citizens which immigrant ethnic group they believe to be the most integrated in French society saw the Vietnamese being ranked fourth, only behind the Italian, Spanish and Portuguese communities.\n\nThe educational attainment rate of the Vietnamese population in France is the highest among overseas Vietnamese populations, a legacy that dates back to the colonial era of Vietnam, when privileged families and those with connections to the colonial government often sent their children to France to study. In addition to high achievements in education, the Vietnamese population in France is also largely successful in economic terms. When the first major wave of Vietnamese migrants arrived in France during World War I, a number already held professional occupations in their new country shortly after their arrival. More recently, refugees who arrived in France after the Fall of Saigon are often more financially stable than their counterparts who settled in North America, Australia and the rest of Europe, due to better linguistic and cultural knowledge of the host country, which allowed them to enter the education system and/or higher paying professions with little trouble. Within a single generation, median income for French-born Vietnamese has risen to above the French median income.\n\nSimilarly to the Vietnamese, the Laotian community in France is among one of the most well integrated into the country and is the most established overseas Laotian populace. Unlike their counterparts in North America and Australia, Laotians in France have a high rate of educational success and are well-represented in the academic and professional sectors, especially among the generations of French-born Lao. Due to better linguistic and cultural knowledge of the host country, Laotian immigrants to France, who largely came as refugees after the end of the Laotian Civil War, were able to have a high rate of assimilation.\n\nIn Germany the academic success of people of Vietnamese origin has been called \"Das vietnamesische Wunder\" (\"The Vietnamese Miracle\"). A study revealed that in the Berlin districts of Lichtenberg and Marzahn, both in former East Berlin and possessing a relatively small percentage of immigrants, Vietnamese account for only 2% of the general population, but make up 17% of the prep school population. Another note of Vietnamese Germans Academic success is that even though they can grow up in poverty in places like East Germany they usually outperform their peers by a wide margin.\nAnother group in Germany that is extremely academically successful and is comparable to that of a model minority are Korean Germans 70% of whom attended a Gymnasium (which is comparable to a prep school in American society) compared to Vietnamese Germans with only 50% attending a Gymnasium. Also Over 70% of second-generation Korean Germans hold at least an \"Abitur\" or higher educational qualification, more than twice the ratio of the rest of Germany.\n\nIn Burma, Gurkhas of Nepalese descent are viewed as a model minority. Gurkhas place a high importance on education, and they represent a disproportionately high share of those with advanced (medical, engineering or doctorate) degrees in Burma.\n\nIn New Zealand, Asian New Zealanders are viewed as a model minority due to attaining above average socio-economic indicators than the New Zealand average, though the phenomenon remains small, underground, and not as widespread compared with their American counterparts. In a study of a popular New Zealand newspaper, articles \"never portrayed the Chinese as a model minority that silently achieves\" and this was \"not in line with overseas research, suggesting that this stereotype merits further analysis\". \n\nAt the end of the colonial era of the Dutch East Indies (now: Indonesia), a community of about 300,000 Indo-Europeans (people of mixed Indonesian and European heritage) was registered as Dutch citizens. Indos formed the vast majority of the European legal class in the colony. When in the second half of the 20th century the independent Republic of Indonesia was established, the majority of Europeans, including the Indo-Europeans, were expelled from the newly established country.\n\nFrom 1945 to 1949 the Indonesian National Revolution turned the former Dutch East Indies into an increasingly hostile environment for Indo-Europeans. Violence aimed towards Indo-Europeans during its early Bersiap period (1945–1946) accumulated in almost 20,000 deaths. The Indo diaspora continued up to 1964 and resulted in the emigration of practically all Indo-Europeans from a turbulent young Indonesian nation. Even though most Indos had never set foot in the Netherlands before, this emigration was named \"repatriation\".\n\nNotwithstanding the fact that Indos in the former colony of the Dutch East Indies were officially part of the European legal class and were formally considered to be Dutch nationals, the Dutch government practiced an official policy of discouragement with regard to the post-WWII repatriation of Indos to the Netherlands. While Dutch policy was in fact aimed at stimulating Indos to give up Dutch citizenship and opt for Indonesian citizenship, simultaneously the young Indonesian Republic implemented policies increasingly intolerant towards anything remotely reminiscent of Dutch influence. Even though actual aggression against Indos decreased after the extreme violence of the Bersiap period, all Dutch (language) institutions, schools and businesses were gradually eliminated and public discrimination and racism against Indos in the Indonesian job market continued. In the end 98% of the original Indo community repatriated to their distant fatherland in Europe.\n\nIn the 1990s and early 21st century the Netherlands was confronted with ethnic tension in a now multi-cultural society. Ethnic tensions, rooted in the perceived lack of social integration and rise of crime rates of several ethnic minorities, climaxed with the murders of politician Pim Fortuyn in 2002 and film director Theo van Gogh in 2004. In 2006 statistics show that in Rotterdam, the second largest city in the country, close to 50% of the inhabitants were of foreign descent. The Indo community however is considered the best integrated ethnic and cultural minority in the Netherlands. Statistical data compiled by the CBS shows that Indos belong to the group with the lowest crime rates in the country.\n\nA CBS study of 1999 reveals that of all foreign born groups living in the Netherlands, only the Indos have an average income similar to that of citizens born in the Netherlands. Job participation in government, education and health care is similar as well. Another recent CBS study, among foreign born citizens and their children living in the Netherlands in 2005, shows that on average, Indos own the largest number of independent enterprises. A 2007 CBS study shows that already over 50% of first-generation Indos have married a native born Dutch person. A percentage that increased to 80% for the second generation. One of the first and oldest Indo organisations that supported the integration of Indo repatriates into the Netherlands is the \"Pelita foundation\".\n\nAlthough Indo repatriates, being born overseas, are officially registered as Dutch citizens of foreign descent, their Eurasian background puts them in the Western sub-class instead of the Non-Western (Asian) sub-class.\n\nTwo factors are usually attributed to the essence of their apparently seamless assimilation into Dutch society: Dutch citizenship and the amount of 'Dutch cultural capital', in the form of school attainments and familiarity with the Dutch language and culture, that Indos already possessed before migrating to the Netherlands.\n\nAlthough third- and fourth-generation Indos are part of a fairly large minority community in the Netherlands, the path of assimilation ventured by their parents and grandparents has left them with little knowledge of their actual roots and history, even to the point that they find it hard to recognise their own cultural features. Some Indos find it hard to grasp the concept of their Eurasian identity and either tend to disregard their Indonesian roots or on the contrary attempt to profile themselves as Indonesian. In recent years however the reinvigorated search for roots and identity has also produced several academic studies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3887639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3887639", "title": "Mohair berets", "text": "Mohair berets\n\n\"Mohair berets\" () is a tongue-in-cheek expression that stands for people who support the views expressed by the Polish conservative Catholic movement, whose main representative is Father Tadeusz Rydzyk. This expression originated from the characteristic headgear worn by the stereotypical representatives of this circle. The term “mohair berets” alludes to the colloquial name \"Green berets\" for military units such as special forces (in Polish, \"red and green berets\").\n\nThe expression “mohair berets” was used for the first time in 2004 and it referred to the people who were regularly attending masses in Gdańsk celebrated by Henryk Jankowski, the parish priest. When he was dismissed from his post, the same parishioners staged demonstrations in his defence. A beret made of mohair or its imitation, and often a handmade one, is commonly associated with its typical wearers, mostly poor elderly ladies. That is the exact social environment of many of Jankowski’s followers who were shown on television. Probably the first article which introduced the expression “mohair berets” to the Polish press was the one published in the daily \"Rzeczpospolita\" from 23 October 2004 titled “Labyrinths of the parish priest”. It reads as follows: “Old ladies have their eyes fixed on Father Jankowski and they hang on every his word. Rumour has it that the prelate has his own legion of mohair berets in Gdańsk.”\nThe expression has spread over the journalism and discussions on Internet forums and started to be used when referring to broader social groups, mostly active listeners of the Catholic radio station Radio Maryja. The term “mohair berets” became commonly used after Robert Górecki, a photojournalist of \"Gazeta Wyborcza\", published the photograph on the Internet which depicted the 14th anniversary of Radio Maryja in December 2005. The picture showed numerous listeners of the radio with berets on their heads. Then the term entered the language of politics and became partly associated with the supporters of those parties which were given plenty of broadcast time on Radio Maryja during the election campaign in 2005, especially the electorate of the League of Polish Families (LPR) and Law and Justice (PiS).\n\nThe phrase “mohair berets” gained a widespread popularity in colloquial language, particularly in some political skirmishes. The example of such a reference is the term “mohair coalition” used by Donald Tusk during the debate in Sejm on the inaugural address of a newly designated Prime Minister Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz on 10 November 2005. “Poland deserves more than what is currently known as a mohair coalition,” said Donald Tusk. The PO leader used such an expression to describe an unofficial parliamentary coalition of PiS, the LPR and Self-Defence. He also suggested that the coalition existed even though PiS persisted in denying it. Donald Tusk officially apologised to the indignant pensioner Julita Kon for his statement when confronted with her in Olsztyn on 30 November 2005, the day when he was on his way to meet with the members of the housing cooperative Domator in Olsztyn who kept demanding to call the general meeting of the cooperative for almost two weeks.\nThe coalition described by Tusk was observed in many votes in Sejm and it was officially sealed later by so-called “stabilisation pact”(an agreement between PiS, the LPR and Self-Defence on their cooperation in the parliament ) followed by forming a coalition by those parties. The term has not appeared in Polish media since 2005.\n\nThe mohair berets are a leitmotiv of the satirical song \"Mohair berets\" recorded by Big Cyc which was released in April 2006 on the album of the same title. The photographs promoting the album showed the band members wearing mohair berets. As soon as in May of the same year Kabaret OT.TO presented the parody of the hip hop song titled \"Mohair neighbours\". The phenomenon of mohair berets is also a key theme of skits (called Mohair programme) performed by cabaret Neo-Nówka from Wrocław as well as the song \"Moherowy ninja\" (\"Mohair ninja\") from the album \"Gra?\" recorded by the alternative rock band L-Dópa.\n\nThe social group called “mohair berets” came under close scrutiny conducted by one of the companies dealing with personal data processing. Its analyses showed that mohair berets accounts for 3.1 per cent of the overall Polish population, the typical representatives of the group analysed being mostly married couple over 50 years old, whose children have already left the nest. As much as 80 per cent of them have only elementary or elementary plus vocational education, 36 per cent of the group are blue collar workers. According to the analyses those people avoid modern technologies (over 50 per cent have not opened a bank account and only one out of four people use mobile phones). The analysis proves that due to the low incomes the group members have to make sure that their bills do not exceed 100 PLN per month so they do their shopping in small shops or cheap discount shops. They usually spend their free time on an allotment (gardening plots are widespread in Poland for dwellers of high-rise flats), solve crosswords and puzzles or go fishing. A minority of those surveyed never go on holidays, 73 per cent spend their time off at home.\n\n"}
{"id": "1612644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1612644", "title": "NPS MedicineWise", "text": "NPS MedicineWise\n\nEstablished in March 1998, NPS MedicineWise (known prior to 2009 as the National Prescribing Service) is a not-for-profit organisation whose programs are funded by the Department of Health (Australia). Since July 2012, the organisation has been officially known as NPS MedicineWise.\n\nNPS MedicineWise provides practical tools (such as medicines lists), evidence-based information, and educational activities, with the intention of improving the way health technologies, including how medicines and medical tests, are prescribed and used.\n\nNPS MedicineWise was founded in 1998 as part of an Australian Government shift in health policy to address issues around Quality Use of Medicines (QUM). NPS MedicineWise' initial mandate was to reduce cost of medicines to Australia's Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) by providing clinically reviewed independent information about medicines to doctors, pharmacists and other health professionals. Many of these materials relate to new drugs or more complex grey-areas in the prescription process.\nSince 2003, NPS MedicineWise has assumed a secondary mandate: promoting discussion of basic medicine-related issues in the community via consumer education programs and major award-winning campaigns, including \"Be Medicinewise Week\", launched in January 2011. The campaign was broadcast across a wide spectrum of media channels and addressed common health issues such as lower back pain, antibiotics and the active ingredient of medicines.\n\nAlthough NPS MedicineWise has brought wide-ranging savings to the Australian health system, critics have questioned the actual causes and ramifications of such savings. However the savings reported by the organisation are comprehensively evaluated and accepted by government, demonstrating a clear correlation between NPS MedicineWise programs and improved prescribing.\n\nThe organisation came under fire in mid-2010 for its decision to replace its telephone-line switch-board staff with nurses, which sparked controversy over what many claimed was a desertion of the pharmacists whose interests the NPS MedicineWise claimed to serve. In actual fact the change in service model saw an in-house service established which was staffed by NPS pharmacists, with all calls triaged by \"healthdirect Australia\" which is where the confusion about nurses replacing pharmacists stemmed from. Prior to this the Mater Hospital in Brisbane was subcontracted to provide the phone line service but this was changed to improve the accessibility and effectiveness of the service.\nIn the period between 1998 and 2004, 90% of all GPs were actively involved in one or more educational activities run by NPS MedicineWise, while approximately sixty per cent of GPs and pharmacists rated the NPS' printed educational materials as good or very good.\n\nNPS MedicineWise activities have generated substantial financial savings to the PBS, with the organisation claiming that its information and education campaigns have reduced unnecessary prescriptions and improved prescribing decisions within the medical community. Various health professionals argue that, despite potential conflicts between cost-saving and the organisation's Quality Use of Medicines mandate, the NPS will continue to improve on the current PBS system.\n\nNPS MedicineWise has also developed programs and resources to help consumers and health practitioners to discuss health issues and improve the QUM within Australia.\n\nNPS MedicineWise works with consumers, healthcare professionals, government and industry to improve the health of all Australians through our targeted educational campaigns.\n\nNMS is the pre-eminent quality use of medicines symposium held in Australia. Held every two years, the scientific program is designed to provide the latest and the controversial in the medicines and health environment and is delivered by international and nationally acclaimed experts.\n\nNPS MedicineWise produces educational activities for general practitioners (GPs), pharmacists, nurses, and students, available online, individual face-to-face or group discussion. Participants are able to obtain continuing professional development (CPD) points. \nActivities include case studies, clinical e-audits, online courses, educational visits, and pharmacy practice reviews.\n\nA collaboration with \"healthdirect Australia\", Medicines Line is a telephone service providing consumers with information on prescription, over-the-counter and complementary (herbal, ‘natural’, vitamin and mineral) medicines.\n\nA program that aims to improve understanding of GP prescribing behaviour. MedicineInsight collects and analyses anonymised patient data directly from Australian general practices to provide practice staff with detailed insight into their prescribing and clinical activity and where improvements might occur. MedicineInsight has collected information on over a million anonymous patient encounters from hundreds of practices and thousands of GPs Australia-wide.\nA free mobile app used to keep an up-to-date list of all the medicines a user takes, helping to get to know medicines, get better results from your medicines and enjoy better health.\nThe app features reminders of how and when to take medicines, calendar alerts for refills, a barcode scanner to input medicines, and the ability to record details about your medical tests and results, and have your results graphed.\nNPS MedicineWise produces publications, articles and e-newsletters in print and electronic formats, all available free of charge.\n\nConsumer publications:\n\nHealth professional publications:\n\nNPS MedicineWise produces many resources available for consumers and health professionals including brochures, fact sheets and translated resources. \nAll of products are available free of charge.\n"}
{"id": "57057135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57057135", "title": "National Police Reserve", "text": "National Police Reserve\n\nThe , or NPR, was a lightly armed national police force established in August 1950 during the Allied occupation of Japan.. In October 1952 it was expanded to 110,000 men and renamed as the National Safety Force. On July 1, 1954 it was reorganized as the Japan Self Defense Forces.\n\nOn the outbreak of the Korean War, many units of the United States Armed Forces stationed in Japan were transferred to South Korea, and Japan was perceived as lacking defenses. Encouraged by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers (GHQ), the Japanese government in 1950 authorized the establishment of NPR, consisting of 75,000 men equipped with light infantry weapons. Personnel affairs of the NPR was taken charge of by GHQ's Government Section (GS) under Brigadier General Courtney Whitney while the efforts to establish and train the force was made by Civil Affairs Section Annex (CASA) under Major General Whitfield P. Shepard.\n\nGiven the legal status of police, the National Police Reserve was tasked with the duty to maintain public security under special conditions according to the National Police Reserve Order (Cabinet Order No. 260, 1950), while in terms of unit formation and equipment, it was a de facto military force modeled after the United States Army.\n\nIn October 1952, the NPR was expanded to 110,000 men and renamed as the National Safety Force (NSF).\n\nOn July 1, 1954, after the 1954 Self-Defense Forces Act [Act No. 165 of 1954] the National Security Board was reorganized as the Defense Agency, and the National Security Force was reorganized as the Japan Ground Self-Defense Force (Army), the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force (Navy) and the Japan Air Self-Defense Force (Air force).\n\n\nNotes\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "70101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70101", "title": "National Rifle Association", "text": "National Rifle Association\n\nThe National Rifle Association of America (NRA) is an American nonprofit organization that advocates for gun rights. Founded in 1871, the group has informed its members about firearm-related legislation since 1934, and it has directly lobbied for and against firearms legislation since 1975.\n\nFounded to advance rifle marksmanship, the modern NRA continues to teach firearm safety and competency. The organization also publishes several magazines and sponsors competitive marksmanship events. According to the NRA, it has 6 million members as of May 2018.\n\nObservers and lawmakers see the NRA as one of the top three most influential lobbying groups in Washington, DC The NRA Institute for Legislative Action (NRA-ILA) is its lobbying arm, which manages its political action committee (PAC), the Political Victory Fund (PVF). Over its history the organization has influenced legislation, participated in or initiated lawsuits, and endorsed or opposed various candidates at local, state and federal levels.\nThe NRA has been criticized by gun control and gun rights advocacy groups, political commentators, and politicians. The organization has been the focus of intense criticism in the aftermath of high profile shootings, such as the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting and the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting.\n\nA few months after the Civil War started in 1861, a national rifle association was proposed by Americans in England. In a letter that was sent to President Lincoln and appeared in the \"New York Times\", R.G. Moulton and R.B. Perry recommended forming an organization similar to the British National Rifle Association, which had formed a year and a half earlier. They suggested making a shooting range, perhaps on the base on Staten Island, and were offering Whitworth rifles for prizes for the first shooting competition with those rifles. They suggested a provisional committee to start the Association which would include: President Lincoln, Secretary of War, officers, and other prominent New Yorkers.\n\nThe National Rifle Association was first chartered in the State of New York on November 16, 1871 by \"Army and Navy Journal\" editor William Conant Church and Captain George Wood Wingate. On November 25, 1871, the group voted to elect its first corporate officers. Union Army Civil War General Ambrose Burnside, who had worked as a Rhode Island gunsmith, was elected president. When Burnside resigned on August 1, 1872, Church succeeded him as president.\n\nUnion Army records for the Civil War indicate that its troops fired about 1,000 rifle shots for each Confederate hit, causing General Burnside to lament his recruits: \"Out of ten soldiers who are perfect in drill and the manual of arms, only one knows the purpose of the sights on his gun or can hit the broad side of a barn.\" The generals attributed this to the use of volley tactics, devised for earlier, less accurate smoothbore muskets.\nRecognizing a need for better training, Wingate sent emissaries to Canada, the United Kingdom, and Germany to observe militia and armies' marksmanship training programs. With plans provided by Wingate, the New York Legislature funded the construction of a modern range at Creedmoor, Long Island, for long-range shooting competitions. The range officially opened on June 21, 1873. The Central Railroad of Long Island established a railway station nearby, with trains running from Hunter's Point, with connecting boat service to 34th Street and the East River, allowing access from New York City. \n\nAfter beating England and Scotland to win the Elcho Shield in 1873 at Wimbledon, then a village outside London, the Irish Rifle Team issued a challenge through the \"New York Herald\" to riflemen of the United States to raise a team for a long-range match to determine an Anglo-American championship. The NRA organized a team through a subsidiary amateur rifle club. Remington Arms and Sharps Rifle Manufacturing Company produced breech-loading weapons for the team. Although muzzle-loading rifles had long been considered more accurate, eight American riflemen won the match firing breech-loading rifles. Publicity of the event generated by the \"New York Herald\" helped to establish breech-loading firearms as suitable for military marksmanship training, and promoted the NRA to national prominence.\n\nThe NRA organized rifle clubs in other states, and many state National Guard organizations sought NRA advice to improve members' marksmanship. Wingate's markmanship manual evolved into the United States Army marksmanship instruction program. Former President Ulysses S. Grant served as the NRA's eighth president and General Philip H. Sheridan as its ninth. The US Congress created the National Board for the Promotion of Rifle Practice in 1901 to include representatives from the NRA, National Guard, and United States military services. A program of annual rifle and pistol competitions was authorized, and included a national match open to military and civilian shooters. In 1907, NRA headquarters moved to Washington, DC to facilitate the organization's advocacy efforts. Springfield Armory and Rock Island Arsenal began the manufacture of M1903 Springfield rifles for civilian members of the NRA in 1910. The Director of Civilian Marksmanship began manufacture of M1911 pistols for NRA members in August 1912. Until 1927, the United States Department of War provided free ammunition and targets to civilian rifle clubs with a minimum membership of ten United States citizens at least 16 years of age.\n\nThe NRA formed its Legislative Affairs Division to update members with facts and analysis of upcoming bills, after the National Firearms Act (NFA) of 1934 became the first federal gun-control law passed in the US. Karl Frederick, NRA President in 1934, during congressional NFA hearings testified \"I have never believed in the general practice of carrying weapons. I seldom carry one. ... I do not believe in the general promiscuous toting of guns. I think it should be sharply restricted and only under licenses.\" Four years later, the NRA backed the Federal Firearms Act of 1938.\n\nThe NRA supported the NFA along with the Gun Control Act of 1968 (GCA), which together created a system to federally license gun dealers and established restrictions on particular categories and classes of firearms. The organization opposed a national firearms registry, an initiative favored by then-President Lyndon Johnson.\n\nUntil the middle 1970s, the NRA mainly focused on sportsmen, hunters and target shooters, and downplayed gun control issues. However, passage of the GCA galvanized a growing number of NRA gun rights activists, including Harlon Carter. In 1975, it began to focus more on politics and established its lobbying arm, the Institute for Legislative Action (NRA-ILA), with Carter as director. The next year, its political action committee (PAC), the Political Victory Fund, was created in time for the 1976 elections. The 1977 annual convention was a defining moment for the organization and came to be known as \"The Cincinnati Revolution\". Leadership planned to relocate NRA headquarters to Colorado and to build a $30 million recreational facility in New Mexico, but activists within the organization whose central concern was Second Amendment rights defeated the incumbents and elected Carter as executive director and Neal Knox as head of the NRA-ILA. Insurgents including Harlon and Knox had demanded new leadership in part because they blamed incumbent leaders for existing gun control legislation like the GCA and believed that no compromise should be made.\n\nAfter 1977, the organization expanded its membership by focusing heavily on political issues and forming coalitions with conservative politicians. Most of these are Republicans. With a goal to weaken the GCA, Knox's ILA successfully lobbied Congress to pass the Firearm Owners Protection Act (FOPA) of 1986 and worked to reduce the powers of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF). In 1982, Knox was ousted as director of the ILA, but began mobilizing outside the NRA framework and continued to promote opposition to gun control laws.\n\nAt the 1991 national convention, Knox's supporters were elected to the board and named staff lobbyist Wayne LaPierre as the executive vice president. The NRA focused its attention on the gun control policies of the Clinton Administration. Knox again lost power in 1997, as he lost reelection to a coalition of moderate leaders who supported movie star Charlton Heston, despite Heston's past support of gun control legislation. In 1994, the NRA unsuccessfully opposed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban (AWB), but successfully lobbied for the ban's 2004 expiration. Heston was elected president in 1998 and became a highly visible spokesman for the organization. In an effort to improve the NRA's image, Heston presented himself as the voice of reason in contrast to Knox.\n\nThe NRA has been described as influential in shaping American gun control policy. The organization influences legislators' voting behavior through its financial resources and ability to mobilize it large membership. The organization has not lost a major battle over gun control legislation since the 1994 Federal Assault Weapons Ban. At the federal level, the NRA successfully lobbied Congress in the mid-1990s to effectively halt governments-sponsored research into the public health effects of firearms, and to ensure the passage of legislation in 2005 largely immunizing gun manufacturers and dealers from lawsuits. At the same time, the NRA stopped efforts at the federal law to increase regulation of firearms. At the state and local level, the NRA successfully campaigned to deregulate guns, for example by pushing state governments to eliminate the ability of local governments to regulate guns and removing restrictions on guns in public places (such as bars and campuses).\n\nWhen the National Rifle Association was officially incorporated on November 16, 1871, its primary goal was to \"promote and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific basis\". The NRA's website says the organization is \"America's longest-standing civil rights organization\".\n\nOn February 7, 1872, the NRA created a committee to lobby for legislation in the interest of the organization. Its first lobbying effort was to petition the New York State legislature for $25,000 to purchase land to set up a range. Within three months, the legislation had passed and had been signed into law by Governor John T. Hoffman.\n\nIn 1934, the National Rifle Association created a Legislative Affairs Division and testified in front of Congress in support of the first substantial federal gun control legislation in the US, the National Firearms Act.\n\nThe Institute for Legislative Action (NRA-ILA), the lobbying branch of the NRA, was established in 1975. According to political scientists John M. Bruce and Clyde Wilcox, the NRA shifted its focus in the late 1970s to incorporate political advocacy, and started seeing its members as political resources rather than just as recipients of goods and services. Despite the impact on the volatility of membership, the politicization of the NRA has been consistent and its PAC, the Political Victory Fund established in 1976, ranked as \"one of the biggest spenders in congressional elections\" as of 1998.\n\nA 1999 \"Fortune\" magazine survey said that lawmakers and their staffers considered the NRA the most powerful lobbying organization three years in a row. Chris W. Cox is the NRA's chief lobbyist and principal political strategist, a position he has held since 2002. In 2012, 88% of Republicans and 11% of Democrats in Congress had received an NRA PAC contribution at some point in their career. Of the members of the Congress that convened in 2013, 51% received funding from the NRA PAC within their political careers, and 47% received NRA money in their most recent race. According to Lee Drutman, political scientist and senior fellow at the Sunlight Foundation, \"It is important to note that these contributions are probably a better measure of allegiance than of influence.\"\n\nInternationally, the NRA opposes the Arms Trade Treaty (ATT). It has opposed Canadian gun registry, supported Brazilian gun rights, and criticized Australian gun laws.\n\nIn 2016 the NRA raised a record $366 million and spent $412 million for political activities. The NRA also maintains a PAC which is excluded from these figures. The organization donated to congressional races for both Republicans (223) and Democrats (9) to candidates for Congress.\n\nThe NRA Political Victory Fund (PVF) PAC was established in 1976 to challenge gun-control candidates and to support gun-rights candidates. An NRA \"A+\" candidate is one who has \"not only an excellent voting record on all critical NRA issues, but who has also made a vigorous effort to promote and defend the Second Amendment\", whereas an NRA \"F\" candidate is a \"true enemy of gun owners' rights\".\n\nThe NRA endorsed a presidential candidate for the first time in 1980, backing Ronald Reagan over Jimmy Carter. The NRA has also made endorsements even when it viewed both candidates positively. For example, in the 2006 Senate Elections the NRA endorsed Rick Santorum over Bob Casey, Jr., even though they both had an \"A\" rating.\n\nRepublicans joined forces with the NRA and used the recently passed gun control measures to motivate voters in the 1994 midterm elections. In 1993, with Democrats in the majority of both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives, President Bill Clinton signed 'The Brady Bill', named after the press secretary who was shot and paralyzed during the 1981 assassination attempt of President Reagan. 'The Brady Bill' created a mechanism for background checks in order to enforce the GCA of 1968 and prevent criminals and minors from purchasing guns. In addition, the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 included a 10 year ban on the sale of assault weapons. In 1994, the ban was favored by 78% of Americans according to a CBS poll.\n\nAccording to Yale Professor Reva Siegel, during the 1994 midterm elections, \"(The) NRA spent more than $3.2 million on GOP campaigns and helped win nineteen of twenty-four \"priority\" races the organization targeted, leading to a House with a majority of members who were 'A-rated' by the NRA\". Groups like the NRA seeking to expand interpretation of the Second Amendment to include an individual right to a gun, coincided with the 'New Right', a political movement concerned with gun control, and social issues such as school prayer and abortion. Leader of the new House Majority Leader Newt Gingrichstated that support for or against gun control defined ones partisan identity. NRA leader Knox echoed this sentiment, assuring members that Republican's would be defenders of Second Amendment rights and repeal recently passed gun control legislation.\n\nThe NRA spent $40 million on US elections in 2008, including $10 million in opposition to the election of Senator Barack Obama in the 2008 presidential campaign.\n\nIn 2010, Citizens United v. FEC was decided by the U.S. Supreme Court, paving the way paved the way for dark money to flow into U.S. elections. As of mid-September 2018, the NRA has become one of just 15 groups which account for three-quarters of the anonymous cash.\n\nThe NRA spent over $360,000 in the Colorado recall election of 2013, which resulted in the ouster of state senators John Morse and Angela Giron. \"The Huffington Post\" called the recall \"a stunning victory for the National Rifle Association and gun rights activists.\" Morse and Giron helped to pass expanded background checks and ammunition magazine capacity limits after the 2012 Aurora, Colorado, and Sandy Hook, Connecticut, shootings.\n\nOn May 20, 2016, the NRA endorsed Donald Trump in the 2016 US presidential election. The timing of the endorsement, before Trump became the official Republican nominee, was unusual, as the NRA typically endorses Republican nominees towards the end of the general election. The NRA said its early endorsement was due to the strong gun control stance of Hillary Clinton In the 2016 United States presidential election the NRA reported spending more than $30 million in support of Donald Trump, more than any other independent group in that election, and three times what it spent in the 2012 presidential election.\n\nInvestigations by the FBI and Special Counsel Robert Mueller resulted in indictments of Russian agents on charges of developing and exploiting ties with the NRA to influence US politics. The deputy governor of the Central Bank of Russia, Aleksandr Torshin, is suspected of illegally funneling money through the NRA to benefit Trump's 2016 campaign. In May of 2018, Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee released a report stating it had obtained \"a number of documents that suggest the Kremlin used the National Rifle Association as a means of accessing and assisting Mr. Trump and his campaign\" through Torshin and his assistant Maria Butina, and that \"The Kremlin may also have used the NRA to secretly fund Mr. Trump's campaign.\" Torshin, a lifetime NRA member who is close to Russian President Vladimir Putin, has been implicated in money laundering by Spanish authorities who have characterized him as a \"godfather\" in Taganskaya, a major Russian criminal organization. Butina was arrested on July 15, 2018 and charged with conspiring to act as an unregistered agent of the Russian Federation.\nAccording to the affidavit from 2015 through at least February 2017, Butina worked at the direction of Russian who was a high level government official and official at the Russian Central Bank.\n\nThe NRA has for decades sought to limit the ability of the ATF to regulate firearms by blocking nominees and lobbying against reforms that would ease the ability of the ATF to track gun crimes. The NRA, for instance, opposed ATF reforms to trace guns to owners electronically; the ATF currently has to do so through paper records. In 2006, the NRA lobbied US Representative F. James Sensenbrenner to add a provision to the Patriot Act reauthorization that requires Senate confirmation of ATF director nominees. For seven years after that, the NRA lobbied against and \"effectively blocked\" every presidential nominee. First was President George W. Bush's choice, Michael Sullivan, whose confirmation was held up in 2008 by three Republican Senators who said the ATF was hostile to gun dealers. One of the Senators was Larry Craig, who was an NRA board member during his years in the Senate. Confirmation of President Obama's first nominee, Andrew Traver, stalled in 2011 after the NRA expressed strong opposition. Some Senators resisted confirming another Obama nominee, B. Todd Jones, because of the NRA's opposition, until 2013, when the NRA said it was neutral on Jones' nomination and that it would not include the confirmation vote in its grading system. Dan Freedman, national editor for Hearst Newspapers' Washington DC bureau, stated that it, \"clears the way for senators from pro-gun states – Democrats as well as at least some Republicans – to vote for Jones without fear of political repercussions\".\n\nIn 2014, Obama weighed the idea of delaying a vote on his nominee for Surgeon General, Vivek Murthy, when Republicans and some conservative Democrats criticized Murthy, after the NRA opposed him. In February, the NRA wrote to Senate leaders Harry Reid and Mitch McConnell to say that it \"strongly opposes\" Murthy's confirmation, and told \"The Washington Times\"' Emily Miller that it would score the vote in its PAC grading system. \"The NRA decision\", wrote Miller, \"will undoubtedly make vulnerable Democrats up for reelection in the midterms reconsider voting party line on this nominee.\" \"The Wall Street Journal\" stated on March 15, \"Crossing the NRA to support Dr. Murthy could be a liability for some of the Democrats running for re-election this year in conservative-leaning states\".\n\nThe NRA also opposed the appointments of Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan as Supreme Court justices.\n\nThe NRA supported the 1934 National Firearms Act, which regulated what were considered at the time \"gangster weapons\" such as machine guns, sawed-off shotguns, and sound suppressors. However, the organization's position on suppressors has since changed.\n\nThe NRA supported the 1938 Federal Firearms Act (FFA) which established the Federal Firearms License (FFL) program. The FFA required all manufacturers and dealers of firearms who ship or receive firearms or ammunition in interstate or foreign commerce to have a license, and forbade them from transferring any firearm or most ammunition to any person interstate unless certain conditions were met.\n\nThe NRA supported and opposed parts of the Gun Control Act of 1968, which broadly regulated the firearms industry and firearms owners, primarily focusing on regulating interstate commerce in firearms by prohibiting interstate firearms transfers except among licensed manufacturers, dealers and importers. The law was supported by America's oldest manufacturers (Colt, S&W, etc.) in an effort to forestall even greater restrictions which were feared in response to recent domestic violence. The NRA supported elements of the law, such as those forbidding the sale of firearms to convicted criminals and the mentally ill.\n\nThe NRA influenced the writing of the Firearm Owners Protection Act and worked for its passage.\n\nIn 2004, the NRA opposed renewal of the Federal Assault Weapons Ban of 1994. The ban expired on September 13, 2004.\n\nIn 2005 President George W. Bush signed into law the NRA-backed Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act which prevent firearms manufacturers and dealers from being held liable for negligence when crimes have been committed with their products.\n\nIn November 2005, the NRA and other gun advocates filed a lawsuit challenging San Francisco Proposition H, which banned the ownership and sales of firearms. The NRA argued that the proposition overstepped local government authority and intruded into an area regulated by the state. The San Francisco County Superior Court agreed with the NRA position. The city appealed the court's ruling, but lost a 2008 appeal. In October 2008, San Francisco was forced to pay a $380,000 settlement to the National Rifle Association and other plaintiffs to cover the costs of litigating Proposition H.\n\nIn April 2006, New Orleans, Louisiana, police began returning to citizens guns that had been confiscated after Hurricane Katrina. The NRA, Second Amendment Foundation (SAF), and other groups agreed to drop a lawsuit against the city in exchange for the return.\n\nWhile the NRA filed an amicus brief with the Supreme Court in the 2008 landmark gun rights case of \"District of Columbia v Heller\". In a 5 to 4 vote, the Supreme Court ruled that the District of Columbia's gun laws were unconstitutional, and for the first time held that an individual's right to a gun was unconnected to service in a militia. Some legal scholars believe that the NRA was influential in altering the public's interpretation of the Second Amendment, providing the foundation for the majority's opinion in \"Heller\".\n\nIn 2009 the NRA again filed suit (\"Guy Montag Doe v. San Francisco Housing Authority\") in the city of San Francisco challenging the city's ban of guns in public housing. On January 14, 2009, the San Francisco Housing Authority reached a settlement with the NRA, which allows residents to possess legal firearms within a SFHA apartment building.\n\nIn 2010, the NRA sued the city of Chicago, Illinois (\"McDonald v. Chicago\") and the Supreme Court ruled that like other substantive rights, the right to bear arms is incorporated via the Fourteenth Amendment to the Bill of Rights, and therefore applies to the states.\n\nIn March 2013, the NRA joined a federal lawsuit with other gun rights groups challenging New York's gun control law (the NY SAFE Act), arguing that Governor Andrew Cuomo \"usurped the legislative and democratic process\" in passing the law, which included restrictions on magazine capacity and expanding the state's assault weapons ban.\n\nIn November 2013, voters in Sunnyvale, California, passed an ordinance banning certain ammunition magazines along with three other firearm-related restrictions. The ordinance was passed by 66 percent in favor. The ordinance requires city residents to \"dispose, donate, or sell\" any magazine capable of holding more than ten rounds within a proscribed period of time once the measure takes effect. The following month, the NRA joined local residents in suing the city on second amendment grounds. A federal judge dismissed the suit three months later, upholding the Sunnyvale's ordinance.\n\nThe city of San Francisco then passed similar ordinances a short time later. The San Francisco Veteran Police Officers Association (SFVPOA), represented by NRA attorneys, filed a lawsuit challenging San Francisco's ban on the possession of high-capacity magazines, seeking an injunction. A federal judge denied the injunction in February 2014.\n\nIn 2014 the NRA lobbied for a bill in Pennsylvania which grants it and other advocacy groups legal standing to sue municipalities to overturn local firearm regulations passed in violation of a state law preempting such regulations, and which also allows the court to force cities to pay their legal fees. As soon as it became law, the NRA sued three cities: Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, and Lancaster. In Philadelphia, seven regulations the NRA sued to overturn included a ban on gun possession by those found to be a risk for harming themselves or others, and a requirement to report stolen guns to the police within twenty-four hours after discovery of the loss or theft. In Lancaster, a city of fewer than 60,000, mayor Rick Gray, who has chaired the pro-gun control group Mayors Against Illegal Guns, was also named in the suit. In that city, the NRA challenged an ordinance requiring gun owners to tell police when a firearm is lost or stolen within 72 hours or face jail time. The basis for the lawsuits is \"a 1974 state law that bars municipalities against passing restrictions that are pre-empted by state gun laws\". At least 20 Pennsylvania municipalities have rescinded regulations in response to threatened litigation.\n\nThe National Rifle Association owns the National Firearms Museum in Fairfax, Virginia, featuring exhibits on the evolution and history of firearms in America. In August 2013, the NRA National Sporting Arms Museum opened at an expansive Bass Pro Shops retail store in Springfield, Missouri. It displays almost 1,000 firearms, including historically significant firearms from the NRA and other collections. The NRA publishes a number of periodicals including \"American Rifleman\" and others.\n\nThe NRA sponsors a range of programs about firearm safety for children and adults, including a program for school-age children, the NRA's \"Eddie Eagle\". The organization issues credentials and trains firearm instructors.\n\nIn 1994, following disagreements between the NRA and athletes over control of the program of Olympic shooting sports, the US Olympic Committee recommended USA Shooting replace the NRA as the national governing body for Olympic shooting. The NRA dropped out just before the decision was announced, citing a lack of appreciation for their efforts.\n\nThe NRA hosts the National Rifle and Pistol Matches at Camp Perry, events which are considered to be the \"world series of competitive shooting\"\nThe National Rifle Association maintains ties with other organizations such as the Boy Scouts of America and 4-H. The NRA has worked with the American Civil Liberties Union in opposing gun registration.\n\nThe NRA hosts annual meetings. The 2018 meeting was held in May 3 in Dallas, Texas. More than 800 exhibitors and 80,000 people attended the event, making it the largest in NRA history. President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence addressed attendees.\n\nSince 1991, Wayne LaPierre has been the organization's executive vice president, and functions as the chief executive officer. LaPierre's compensation averages $1 million per year and including a nearly $4 million retirement payout in 2015. Previous notable holders of that office include: Milton Reckord, Floyd Lavinius Parks, Franklin Orth, Maxwell Rich, Harlon Carter, J. Warren Cassidy, and Gary Anderson.\n\nChris W. Cox is the executive director of the NRA's lobbying branch, the Institute for Legislative Action. He received more than $1.3 million in compensation in 2015. Kyle Weaver is executive director of general operations. Kayne B. Robinson is executive director of the General Operations Division and chairman of the Whittington Center.\nIn 2017, political commentator Dana Loesch was appointed as the NRA's national spokesperson, with the formal title of \"special assistant to executive vice president for public communication.\" Loesch hosts \"The DL\" on NRA TV and has featured prominently in other NRA-produced videos.\n\nActor Chuck Norris serves as the honorary chairman for the association's voter registration campaign. Colion Noir hosts a video program on the NRA's online video channel.\n\nIn May 2018, the NRA announced that Oliver North would become president of the organization.\n\nThe NRA is governed by a board of 76 elected directors, 75 of whom serve three-year terms and one who is elected to serve as a cross-over director. The directors choose a president and other officers from among the membership, as well as the executive director of the NRA General Operations and the executive director of the NRA Institute for Legislative Action (NRA-ILA). In 2015, 71 members were white and 65 were male. More came from Texas than any other state. Only 7 percent of eligible members vote. Most board nominations are vetted by an appointed nine-member Nominating Committee. One member is George Kollitides of the Freedom Group. The nomination committee has been called \"kingmakers\" by MSNBC and Jeff Knox says \"the process is front-loaded to give incumbents and Nominating Committee candidates a significant advantage\".\n\nAccording to Wayne La Pierre NRA membership exceeded 5 million as of May 2013, one-tenth of whom had joined in the prior six months. \"Mother Jones\" has questioned the membership numbers published by the NRA. They say that in 2008, for example, the organization claimed both 3 million and 4.3 million members. Journalist Osha Gray Davidson suggested in 2000 that many deceased \"life members\" are kept on the books in order to inflate the membership rolls. A 2017 Pew Research Center Study found that more than 14 million Americans consider themselves NRA members, above the real membership number of 5 million. This may be attributed to the fact that the NRA has millions more of Americans who support them and will tell pollsters they are members, even when they are not. In other cases, it could be that their membership has lapsed and for others, they might consider a family member's membership part of their own.\n\nNine US Presidents have been NRA members. In addition to Grant, they are: Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush (who resigned in 1995), and Donald Trump. Three US Vice Presidents, two Chief Justices of the US Supreme Court, and several US Congressmen, as well as legislators and officials of state governments are members.\n\nCurrent or past members also include journalist Hunter S. Thompson, Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh, documentarian Michael Moore (who joined with the intent of dismantling the organization), actor Rick Schroder, and singer James Hetfield.\n\nThe National Rifle Association is composed of several financially interconnected organizations under common leadership, including the NRA Institute for Legislative Action (NRA-ILA) which manages the NRA's political action committee and the NRA Civil Defense Fund which does pro bono legal work for people with cases involving Second Amendment rights. The NRA Civil Rights Defense Fund was established in 1978. Harlon Carter and Neal Knox were responsible for its founding.\n\nIn 1994, the Fund spent over $500,000 on legal fees to support legal cases involving guns and gun control measures. It donated $20,000 in 1996 for the defense of New York City resident Bernhard Goetz when he was sued by a man he shot and left paralyzed. It paid the legal bills in the case of Brian Aitken, a New Jersey resident sentenced to seven years in state prison for transporting guns without a carry permit. On December 20, 2010, Governor Chris Christie granted Aitken clemency and ordered Aitken's immediate release from prison.\n\nThe NRA Foundation is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that raises and donates money to outdoors groups and others such as ROTC programs, 4-H and Boy Scouts. In 2010, the NRA Foundation distributed $21.2 million in grants for gun-related training and education programs: $12.6 million to the NRA itself, and the rest to community programs for hunters, competitive shooters, gun collectors, and law enforcement, and to women and youth groups. The foundation has no staff and pays no salaries.\n\nFriends of NRA is a program that raises money for the NRA Foundation. Since its inception in 1992, Friends of NRA has held over 17,600 events, reached over 3.2 million attendees and raised over $600 million for The NRA Foundation.\n\nBy 1976, as the NRA became more politically-oriented, the Political Victory Fund (NRA-PVF), a PAC, was established as a subsidiary to the NRA, to support NRA-friendly politicians. Chris W. Cox, who is the NRA's chief lobbyist and principal political strategist, is also the NRA-PVF chairman. Through the NRA-PVF, the NRA began to rate political candidates on their positions on gun rights. An NRA \"A+\" candidate is one who has \"not only an excellent voting record on all critical NRA issues, but who has also made a vigorous effort to promote and defend the Second Amendment\", whereas an NRA \"F\" candidate is deemed a \"true enemy of gun owners' rights\".\n\nIn the 2008 elections, the PVF spent millions on \"direct campaign donations\" and \"grassroots operation\". In 2012, NRA-PVF income was $14.4 million and expenses were $16.1 million. By 2014, the NRA-PVF income rose to 21.9 million with expenses of 20.7 million.\n\nIn 2010, the NRA reported revenue of $227.8 million and expenses of $243.5 million, with revenue including roughly $115 million generated from fundraising, sales, advertising and royalties, and most of the rest from membership dues. Less than half of the NRA's income is from membership dues and program fees; the majority is from contributions, grants, royalties, and advertising.\n\nCorporate donors include a variety of companies such as outdoors supply, sporting goods companies, and firearm manufacturers. From 2005 through 2011, the NRA received at least $14.8 million from more than 50 firearms-related firms. An April 2011 Violence Policy Center presentation said that the NRA had received between $14.7 million and $38.9 million from the firearms industry since 2005. In 2008, Beretta exceeded $2 million in donations to the NRA, and in 2012, Smith & Wesson gave more than $1 million. Sturm, Ruger & Company raised $1.25 million through a program in which it donated $1 to the NRA-ILA for each gun it sold from May 2011 to May 2012. In a similar program, gun buyers and participating stores are invited to \"round up\" the purchase price to the nearest dollar as a voluntary contribution. According to the NRA's 2010 tax forms, the \"round-up\" funds have been allocated to both public interest programs and lobbying.\n\nIn 2018, the NRA alleged in an official Court document that it suffered tens of millions of dollars in damage from actions of Governor Andrew Cuomo and the State's financial regulator, and if those actions continue, the NRA \"will be unable to exist as a not-for-profit or pusue its advocacy mission.\"\n\nA Reuters/Ipsos poll in April 2012 found that 82% of Republicans and 55% of Democrats saw the NRA \"in a positive light\". In seven of eight Gallup polls between 1993 and 2015, a majority of Americans reported holding a favorable opinion of the NRA. Its highest rating was at 60% favourability in 2005 (with 34% unfavourable), while its lowest rating was at 42% favourability in 1995 (with 51% unfavourable). In October 2015, 58% of Americans held a favorable opinion of the NRA, though there was a wide spread among political affiliations: 77% of conservatives, 56% of moderates and 30% of liberals held this view.\n\nA \"Washington Post\"/ABC News poll in January 2013 showed that only 36% of Americans had a favorable opinion of the NRA leadership.\n\nA 2017 poll conducted by the political action committee Americans for Responsible Solutions, which supports gun control, exclusively questioned 661 gun owners. 26% of the respondents stated they were a member of the NRA. The ARS reported that less than 50% of gun owners polled believed the NRA represented their interests, while 67% of them somewhat or strongly agreed with the statement that it had been \"overtaken by lobbyists and the interests of gun manufacturers and lost its original purpose and mission.\" The NRA disputed the poll's veracity in an e-mail sent to \"Politico\", which had published the story.\n\nRecent polling trends show a significant decline in NRA favorability.\n\nA 2018 NBC News/ Wall Street Journal poll found that \"for the first time since at least 2000, Americans hold a net unfavorable view of the NRA\"- the poll showed respondents view of the NRA was 40% negative and 37% positive. The poll showed that compared to the same question in 2017, the favorability rating of the NRA overall dropped 5%, noting that the shift was largely due to favorability declines among certain demographics: married white women, urban residents, white women (overall), and moderate Republicans. Several 2018 polls had similar results.\n\nA February 2018 Quinnipiac poll found that 51% of Americans believe that the policies supported by the NRA are bad for the U.S., a 4% increase since October 2017.\n\nThe NRA calls itself \"the oldest continuously operating civil liberties organization\" and is \"one of the largest and best-funded lobbying organizations\" in the United States. Its claim that it's one of the oldest civil rights organizations is disputed. While the NRA was founded in 1871, it did not pursue a gun rights agenda until 1934. The National Association for the Deaf (NAD, founded in 1880) and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP, founded in 1909) both originated as civil rights organizations according to other sources.\n\nThe National Rifle Association has been criticized by newspaper editorial boards, gun control and gun rights advocacy groups, political commentators, and politicians. Democrats and liberals frequently criticize the organization. The NRA's oldest organized critics include the gun control advocacy groups the Brady Campaign, the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence (CSGV), and the Violence Policy Center (VPC). Twenty-first century groups include Everytown for Gun Safety (formerly Mayors Against Illegal Guns), Moms Demand Action, and Americans for Responsible Solutions.\n\nIn 1995, former US President George H. W. Bush resigned his life membership to the organization after receiving a National Rifle Association Institute of Legislative Action (NRA-ILA) fund-raising letter, signed by executive vice president Wayne LaPierre, that referred to ATF agents as \"jack-booted government thugs\". The NRA later apologized for the letter's language.\n\nIn December 2008, \"The New York Times\" editorial board criticized the NRA's attacks, which it called false and misleading, on Barack Obama's presidential campaign.\n\nAfter Donald Trump's election, the NRA closely aligned with Trump. At an event in February 2018, Trump said that he was a \"big fan of the NRA\" but said that \"that doesn't mean we have to agree on everything.\"\n\nA number of observers have argued that the NRA has become a partisan organization, focusing overwhelmingly on supporting the Republican Party. They argue that the NRA does not support Democratic candidates, even when the Democrat holds pro-gun views, and that the organization supports Republican causes even when they are unrelated to gun rights.\n\nIn February 2013, \"USA Today\" editors criticized the NRA for flip-flopping on expansion of universal background checks to private and gun show sales, which NRA now opposes.\n\nIn March 2014, \"The Washington Post\" criticized the NRA's interference in government research on gun violence, and both \"Post\" and \"Los Angeles Times\" editors criticized its opposition of Vivek Murthy for US Surgeon General. In November 2018, a social media dispute was seen, after a paper was published by the American College of Physicians that stated that medical professionals had a special responsibility to speak out on prevention of gun-related injuries and that they should support appropriate regulation of the purchase of legal weapons. In response to the paper the NRA tweeted against the paper and \"anti-gun doctors\" and claimed that \"half of the articles in Annals of Internal Medicine are pushing for gun control\", and medical professional began posting their experiences of caring for gun violence victims.\n\nA survey of NRA members found that the majority support certain gun control policies, such as a universal background check:\n\nCritics have charged that the NRA represents the interests of gun manufacturers rather than gun owners. For example, in 2011, Violence Policy Center executive director Josh Sugarmann, said: \"Today's NRA is a virtual subsidiary of the gun industry. While the NRA portrays itself as protecting the 'freedom' of individual gun owners, it's actually working to protect the freedom of the gun industry to manufacture and sell virtually any weapon or accessory\".\n\nFollowing the high-profile 2012 shooting at the Sandy Hook Elementary School, the organization began to become the focus of intense criticism, due to its continued refusal to endorse any new restrictions on assault-style gun ownership, or to endorse any other types of new restrictions on gun ownership.\nWhile supporters say the organization advances their rights to buy and own guns according to the constitution's Second Amendment, some critics have described it as a \"terrorist organization\" for advocating policies that enable and permit the widespread distribution and sale of assault-style weapons, and for its opposition to any other types of restrictions on gun sales or use.\n\nIn December 2012, following the shooting, NRA broke its social media silence and media blackout to announce a press conference. At the event, LaPierre announced an NRA-backed effort to assess the feasibility of placing armed security officers in the nation's 135,000 public and private schools under a \"National School Shield Program\". He called on Congress \"to act immediately to appropriate whatever is necessary\". The announcement came in the same week after President Obama had stated his support for a ban on military-style assault weapons and high-capacity magazines.\n\nThe NRA has been criticized for their media strategy following mass shootings in the United States. After the Sandy Hook shooting the NRA released an online video which attacked Obama and mentioned Obama's daughters; New Jersey Governor Chris Christie called it \"reprehensible\" and said that it demeaned the organization. A senior lobbyist for the organization later characterized the video as \"ill-advised\".\n\nAfter the October 2017 shooting at a concert in Las Vegas, which left 58 people dead and 851 injured, the NRA was initially criticized for their silence. After four days they issued a statement opposing additional gun control laws, which they said would not stop further attacks, and calling for a federal law allowing people who have a concealed carry permit in one state to carry concealed weapons in all other states. The organization also suggested additional regulations on so-called bump fire stocks, which allow a semi-automatic weapon to function like a machine gun; the Las Vegas shooter had used such a device.\n\nIn February 2018 a school shooting at a high school in Florida left 17 dead, and student survivors organized a movement called Never Again MSD to demand passage of certain gun control measures. Many of the students blamed the NRA, and the politicians who accept money from the organization, for preventing enactment of any gun control proposals after previous high profile shootings. An NRA spokesman responded by blaming the shooting on the FBI and the media. The NRA also issued a statement that the incident was proof that more guns were immediately required in schools in the hands of a bolstered force of armed security personnel in order to \"harden\" them against any further similar assaults. A Florida law passed in the wake of the shooting, which includes a provision to ban the sale of firearms to people under 21, was immediately challenged in federal court by the NRA on the grounds that it is \"violating the constitutional rights of 18- to 21-year-olds.\"\n\nIn May 2018, Cameron Kasky's father and other Parkland parents formed a super PAC, Families vs Assault Rifles PAC (FAMSVARPAC), with a stated goal of going \"up against NRA candidates in every meaningful race in the country\". The organization seeks federal legislation to ban \"the most dangerous firearms\", while not affecting the second amendment.\n\nThe NRA offers corporate discounts to its members at various businesses through its corporate affiliate programs. For several years, and increasingly in the aftermath of the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, \"affiliate companies\" have been targeted in social media as part of a boycott effort to terminate their business relationships with the NRA. As a result of this boycott movement, several major corporations such as Delta Air Lines, United Airlines, Hertz, Symantec, and MetLife have disaffiliated from the NRA, while others, such as FedEx have refused to disaffiliate.\n\nIn 2017, Zack Beauchamp of Vox and Mark Sumner of Daily Kos criticized a video advertisement from the NRA. In the video, Dana Loesch runs through a list of wrongs committed by an unspecified \"they\":\n\nThey use their media to assassinate real news. They use their schools to teach children that the president is another Hitler. They use their movie stars, and singers, and comedy shows, and award shows to repeat their narrative over and over again. And then they use their ex-president to endorse the resistance. All to make them march. Make them protest. Make them scream racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia. To smash windows, burn cars, shut down interstates and airports, bully and terrorize the law abiding. Until the only option left is for the police to do their jobs and stop the madness. And when that happens, they'll use it as an excuse for their outrage. The only way we stop this. The only way we save our country and our freedom, is to fight this violence of lies with the clenched fist of truth.\n\nSumner alleged the NRA was trying to boost gun sales by \"convincing half of America to declare war on the other half.\" Beauchamp wrote, \"It's a paranoid vision of American life that encourages the NRA's fans to see liberals not as political opponents, but as monsters.\"\n\nIn May 2018 the NRA ran an advertisement which criticized the media for giving too much coverage to school shooters by showing their faces and revealing their names, in effect causing a \"glorification of carnage in pursuit of ratings\", and satirically suggested that Congress pass legislation to limit such coverage in order to make provocative point about gun control. In response, critics suggested that this would violate the First Amendment right of free speech.\n\nPro-gun rights critics include Gun Owners of America (GOA), founded in the 1970s because some gun rights advocates believed the NRA was too flexible on gun issues. Jews for the Preservation of Firearms Ownership (JPFO) has also disagreed with NRA for what it perceives as a willingness to compromise on gun control. The National Association for Gun Rights criticizes the NRA as not being conservative enough or not sufficiently protective of gun rights. In June 2014, an open carry group in Texas threatened to withdraw its support of the NRA if it did not retract its statements critical of the practice. The NRA–ILA's Chris Cox said the statements were a staffer's personal opinion and a mistake.\n\nThe NRA has been criticized for insufficient defense of African-American gun rights and providing muted and delayed responses in gun rights cases involving black gun owners. Others argue that the NRA's inaction in prominent gun rights cases involving black gun owners is a consequence of their reluctance to criticize law enforcement, noting NRA support for Otis McDonald and Shaneen Allen.\n\nIn a well-publicized 2017 case, Philando Castile, an African-American and legal gun owner, was fatally shot by a police officer during a traffic stop while reaching for his wallet. Castile had a valid firearm permit and informed the police officer of his gun prior to the shooting. According to \"The Washington Post\", the NRA had typically \"been quick to defend other gun owners who made national news\", but stayed silent on the Castile shooting. Other gun rights advocates as well as some NRA members voiced similar criticisms.\n\nAdam Winkler, professor of constitutional law at the UCLA School of Law, has argued that there is historical precedence to the NRA's lack of advocacy for black gun owners, noting that the NRA promoted gun control legislation in the 1920s, 1930s and 1960s with the intent to reduce gun ownership by racial minorities.\n\nPresidents of the NRA are elected by the board of directors.\n\nNotable directors, past and present, include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3381848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3381848", "title": "Objectivism and homosexuality", "text": "Objectivism and homosexuality\n\nAyn Rand, author and developer of Objectivism, held controversial views regarding homosexuality and gender roles. Although her personal view of homosexuality was unambiguously negative, considering it immoral and disgusting, Rand endorsed non-discrimination protection for homosexuals in the public sphere while opposing laws against discrimination in the private sector on the basis of economic freedom.\n\nIn 1971, Rand published an essay called \"The Age of Envy\", which included criticism of the women's liberation movement. Rand's criticisms included denouncing \"sex views\" that she considered \"hideous\", including \"proclaim[ing] spiritual sisterhood with lesbians\". Later that year Rand published another essay that criticized women's liberation for forming a \"common front with lesbians and prostitutes\". These two passages were Rand's only published writings about homosexuality.\n\nIn response to questions from the audience at the two Ford Hall Forum lectures she gave at Northeastern University, Rand explained her views in more detail. In her 1968 lecture, she said, \"I do not approve of such practices or regard them as necessarily moral, but it is improper for the law to interfere with a relationship between consenting adults.\" Rand's heir Leonard Peikoff stated that there were people with whom Rand was \"close, knowing full well that they were homosexual\" and that \"she certainly regarded some of them as Objectivists\".\n\nRand endorsed rights that protect homosexual people from discrimination by the government (such as opposition to sodomy laws), but rejected the right to be protected from discrimination in the private sector (such as employment discrimination). The stated basis of this conclusion was that it was a product of her stand on property rights, not related to her feelings about homosexuality. Rand supported the right of a private property owner to discriminate, even on a basis that she condemned as immoral, such as racism, and that any act of the government to change this would be an intrusion on individual rights.\n\nRand asserted that \"the essence of femininity is hero worship – the desire to look up to man\" and that \"an ideal woman is a man-worshipper, and an ideal man is the highest symbol of mankind.\" In other words, Rand felt that it was part of human nature for a psychologically healthy woman to want to be ruled in sexual matters by a man \"worthy\" of ruling her. In an authorized article in \"The Objectivist\", psychotherapist Nathaniel Branden, Rand's onetime extramarital lover and \"intellectual heir,\" explains Rand's view as the idea that \"man experiences the essence of his masculinity in the act of romantic dominance; woman experiences the essence of her femininity in the act of romantic surrender.\" This however, would be very different than any brutal form of rule.\n\nAfter Rand's death in 1982, her heir, Leonard Peikoff, publicly disagreed with some of her views. Peikoff argued that homosexuality itself is not open to moral judgment. Other contemporary Objectivists generally continue to support the view that, while government should not discriminate for or against homosexuals in any way, private individuals and private organizations should be free to do so.\n\nIn 1983, Branden wrote that Rand was \"absolutely and totally ignorant” about homosexuality. Branden added that he saw her perspective \"as calamitous, as wrong, as reckless, as irresponsible, and as cruel, and as one which I know has hurt too many people who ... looked up to her and assumed that if she would make that strong a statement she must have awfully good reasons.\"\n\nAccording to an FAQ from The Atlas Society (formerly The Objectivist Center):\nWhile many conservatives believe that homosexuality should be outlawed and many liberals believe that homosexuals should be given special rights, Objectivism holds that as long as no force is involved, people have the right to do as they please in sexual matters, whether or not their behavior is considered by others to be or is in fact moral. And since individual rights are grounded in the nature of human beings as human beings, homosexuals do not deserve any more or less rights than heterosexuals.\n\nObjectivist psychotherapist Michael J. Hurd supports gay marriage as falling under the rights of individuals to associate voluntarily. Unlike Rand, however, he does not view homosexuality as immoral, stating that \"a gay marriage... though unconventional and highly controversial, can be a loving and highly satisfying union between two individuals.\"\n\nObjectivist psychologists Ellen Kenner and Edwin Locke expressed opinions similar to those of Hurd.\n\nChartered affiliates of the Objectivist Party, a minor political party in the United States, have adopted platforms opposing government-sanctioned discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, favoring legalization of same-sex marriage, and favoring elimination of the military's policy of \"Don't Ask, Don't Tell\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "761554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761554", "title": "Online dispute resolution", "text": "Online dispute resolution\n\nOnline dispute resolution (ODR) is a branch of dispute resolution which uses technology to facilitate the resolution of disputes between parties. It primarily involves negotiation, mediation or arbitration, or a combination of all three. In this respect it is often seen as being the online equivalent of alternative dispute resolution (ADR). However, ODR can also augment these traditional means of resolving disputes by applying innovative techniques and online technologies to the process.\n\nODR is a wide field, which may be applied to a range of disputes; from interpersonal disputes including consumer to consumer disputes (C2C) or marital separation; to court disputes and interstate conflicts. It is believed that efficient mechanisms to resolve online disputes will impact in the development of e-commerce. While the application of ODR is not limited to disputes arising out of business to consumer (B2C) online transactions, it seems to be particularly apt for these disputes, since it is logical to use the same medium (the internet) for the resolution of e-commerce disputes when parties are frequently located far from one another.\n\nDispute resolution techniques range from methods where parties have full control of the procedure, to methods where a third party is in control of both the process and the outcome. These primary methods of resolving disputes may be complemented with Information and Communication Technology (ICT). When the process is conducted mainly online it is referred to as ODR, i.e. to carry out most of the dispute resolution procedure online, including the initial filing, the neutral appointment, evidentiary processes, oral hearings if needed, online discussions, and even the rendering of binding settlements. Thus, ODR is a different medium to resolve disputes, from beginning to end, respecting due process principles.\n\nODR was born from the synergy between ADR and ICT, as a method for resolving disputes that were arising online, and for which traditional means of dispute resolution were inefficient or unavailable. The introduction of ICT in dispute resolution is currently growing to the extent that the difference between off-line dispute resolution and ODR is blurry. It has been observed that it is only possible to distinguish between proceedings that rely heavily on online technology and proceedings that do not. Some commentators have defined ODR exclusively as the use of ADR assisted principally with ICT tools. Although part of the doctrine incorporates a broader approach including online litigation and other sui generis forms of dispute resolution when they are assisted largely by ICT tools designed ad hoc. The latter definition seems more appropriate since it incorporates all methods used to resolve disputes that are conducted mainly through the use of ICT. Moreover, this concept is more consistent with the fact that ODR was born from the distinction with off-line dispute resolution processes.\n\nIn ODR, the information management is not only carried out by physical persons but also by computers and software. The assistance of ICT has been named by Katsh and Rifkin as the 'fourth party' because ODR is seen as an independent input to the management of the dispute. In addition to the two (or more) disputants and the third neutral party, the labelling of technology as the fourth party is a clear metaphor which stresses how technology can be as powerful as to change the traditional three side model. The fourth party embodies a range of capabilities in the same manner that the third party does. While the fourth party may at times take the place of the third party, i.e. automated negotiation, it will frequently be used by the third party as a tool for assisting the process.\n\nThe fourth party may do many things such as organize information, send automatic responses, shape writing communications in a more polite and constructive manner e.g. blocking foul language. In addition, it can monitor performance, schedule meetings, clarify interests and priorities, and so on. The assistance of the fourth party will increase the more technology advances, thus reducing the role of the third neutral party. It has been predicted that virtual \"fourth party\" avatars will be created to judge disputes and could become more skilled and intelligent over time. Katsh and Wing argue that ICT advance is occurring exponentially since ICT advance speeds up over the time. As a result, ODR processes are increasing in efficiency providing their disputants with greater advantages in terms of time saving and cost reductions.\n\nIn practice it is difficult to provide a self-contained definition of ODR, and given the pace of change it may not even be possible to do so. The use of technology usually involves the use of Internet-based communications technology at some stage, but ODR does not necessarily involve purely online processes – further, many could be replicated offline using pen and paper, or could be achieved using computers without Internet connections.\n\nThe range of terms and acronyms used to describe the field augments the confusion often felt by those unfamiliar with the new field of ODR. These terms include:\n\n\nODR has emerged as the most used term in recent years.\n\nIt is uncertain whether these processes form a new \"discipline\" of ADR or a \"tool\" to aid existing methods of dispute resolution. The most appropriate view would be to view ODR as an interdisciplinary field of dispute resolution.\n\nAutomated negotiation relates to those methods in which the technology takes over (aspects of) a negotiation. Most of the ODR services in this area are so-called 'blind-bidding' services. This is a negotiation process designed to determine economic settlements for claims in which liability is not challenged. The blind bidding service may be thought of as a type of auction mechanism where some or all information about the players' bids is hidden. There are two forms of automated negotiation, double blind bidding, which is a method for single monetary issues between two parties, and Visual Blind Bidding, which can be applied to negotiations with any number of parties and issues.\n\n\nDouble blind bidding is a negotiation method for two parties where the offer and demand are kept hidden during the negotiation. It commences when one party invites the other to negotiate the amount of money in dispute. If the other party agrees, they start a blind bidding process whereby both parties make secret offers or bids, which will only be disclosed if both offers match certain standards. They can usually submit up to three offers and if the bids of both parties come within a predetermined range (usually range from 30% to 5%) or a given amount of money (e.g. €3,000), then the technology automatically settles the dispute in the midpoint of the two offers. Although, it is a simple method, it effectively encourages the parties to reveal their 'bottom line' offers and demands, splitting the difference when the amounts are close.\n\n\nThe primary distinction of visual blind bidding is in what is kept hidden from the other parties. In traditional double blind bidding, the offers and demands are kept hidden, whereas with visual blind bidding what is kept hidden is what each party is willing to accept. This method can be effectively applied to the simplest single-value negotiations or the most complex negotiations between any number of parties and issues.\n\nVisual blind bidding commences when all parties agree to negotiate with one another. They start the process by exchanging visible optimistic proposals, which define negotiating ranges. The system then generates suggestions that fall within the negotiating ranges. Parties may continue to exchange visible proposals or contribute their own suggestions to the mix. Suggestions contributed by the parties remain anonymous, thus avoiding the face saving problem of accepting a suggestion made by another party.\n\nA resolution is declared by the system at the end of a negotiating session if all parties have accepted one or more packages (of one or more proposed decision values) at the end of that session. Which of those packages becomes the agreement may be determined by an algorithm that rewards the party that moves soonest into the Zone of Agreement. This algorithm is thought to encourage concessions and quickly indicate that they are willing to accept a fair outcome. This is in contrast to the chilling effect that occurs with the more common split-the-difference algorithm.\n\nAutomated negotiation has proven to be particularly successful with insurance compensations and commercial activities. It is also a valuable tool for lawyers because they too can use it without revealing what they're willing to accept (unless an agreement is reached) and more importantly, without waiving their right to access the court, in the case that the negotiation is unsuccessful.\n\nThus, ODR is useful for resolving brick and mortar disputes that arise in businesses, insurance companies and municipalities, who are finding that ODR saves them money and time when dealing with B2C disputes.\n\nIn assisted negotiation the technology assists the negotiation process between the parties. The technology has a similar role as the mediator in a mediation. The role of the technology may be to provide a certain process and/or to provide the parties with specific (evaluative) advice.\n\nMediators use information management skills encouraging parties to reach an amicable agreement by enabling them to communicate more effectively through the rephrasing of their arguments. Conciliation is similar to mediation, but the conciliator can propose solutions for the parties to consider before an agreement is reached. Also, assisted negotiation procedures are designed to improve parties' communications through the assistance of a third party or software. In fact, it has been argued that assisted negotiation, conciliation, and even facilitation, are just different words for mediation. The major advantages of these processes, when used online, are their informality, simplicity and user friendliness.\n\n\nThe leading ODR provider for consumer mediation was until recently SquareTrade. It was contracted by a number of market places, the largest of which was eBay. However, due to changes in the eBay feedback system in May 2008, SquareTrade decided to stop resolving eBay feedback disputes from June 2008. SquareTrade continues providing services to eBay users, such as warranty services and the trustmark program. It appears that in the last year these services have been taken over by eBay and PayPal dispute resolution services, but results on these services are still scarce.\n\nSquareTrade did not handle disputes between users and eBay, only between sellers and buyers on eBay. SquareTrade offered two levels of dispute resolution: assisted negotiation and mediation. SquareTrade was only used after eBay's own consumer satisfaction process. In the last few years, SquareTrade has resolved millions of disputes across 120 countries in 5 different languages.\n\nThe advantage of dealing with large number of disputes is that the same issues arise many times, thus it is possible to divide the disputes into different sections. The SquareTrade process started when a buyer or a seller filed a complaint. To do so, the claimant was asked to fill out a web-based standard claim form that identified the type of dispute and presented a list of common solutions, from which the claimant selected the ones that he agreed to. The other party was contacted by email where he was informed about the SquareTrade process, and asked whether he wished to participate. The parties were often keen on participating because this was the only manner by which the buyer could get redress and the seller positive feedback. The other party filed the response, selecting the resolutions. If both parties agreed on the same resolution, the dispute was resolved. When an agreement could not be reached, parties were put into a negotiation environment. A web interface was used to shape communications into a constructive and polite negotiation. This was achieved with software tools that limited the free text space, encouraged the proposition of agreements, set deadlines and even shaped the tone of exchanges.\n\nThis software was the key element of the process because it took over some of the expertise of the third party. This process could be defined as 'mediated negotiation'. According to Rabinovich-Einy, SquareTrade technology,\n\n\"intervenes in the negotiations between the parties and, by allowing parties to formulate and reformulate the problem and the solution, performs some of what would be associated with a mediator's role, moving the parties from a problem mode to a solution stance.\"\n\nMost disputes (over 80 percent) were resolved during the first two stages, which was an impressive success rate given that in the majority of cases, the parties had already been involved in some type of failed direct negotiation before engaging with SquareTrade. In the rest of the cases a mediator could be requested for a nominal fee, acting as an expert evaluator or conciliator that made settlement proposals to the parties. This second stage involved the payment of a 29.95 USD fee. According to SquareTrade, \"[a] sophisticated case management technology enables mediators to handle lower to medium-value consumer disputes in an efficient cost effective manner.\" The appointed mediator proposed solutions, if required by the parties to do so. Agreements were always kept confidential by SquareTrade, and became binding as contracts.\n\nSquareTrade has proven that processes such as online negotiation and online mediation can be efficient tools to resolve e-commerce disputes. One of the key issues for the success of SquareTrade was the simplicity and convenience of this service. In addition, SquareTrade services to eBay were concentrated on a reduced number of issues, such as delays, bad descriptions and negative feedback. This made possible the development of an efficient automatic process that enhanced online negotiation. The success of consensual and automated processes depends on the nature of the dispute, the accuracy of information provided, and the capability of the software or the third neutral party in assessing and evaluating the facts and evidence. SquareTrade was particularly effective because it introduced incentives that encourage parties' participation; i.e. both parties wished to resolve their dispute: sellers want to obtain positive feedback and buyers want redress.In general terms, widening the scope of clients' claims to the global market invites extra variables to play: cultural differences, such as high and low culture perceptions and the cross-cultural variations of what constitutes the customer satisfaction experience.\n\nAnother form of alternative dispute resolution prioritizes expedience and dispenses with adjudication all together, in recognition of the litigants' desire to simply dispose of the matter as quickly as possible. By removing any hint of adjudication, services (e.g., One Day Decisions) \"fast track\" a version similar to blind bidding which is restricted privately to the two parties and an algorithm determines a fair value to be accepted by each party. Unlike other services, once accepted by both parties, the settlement amount is applied to the issuance of a Certificate of Final Resolution which both parties accept as irrevocable proof of resolution and final settlement. By avoiding adjudication, expedient non-adjudicative online resolution saves litigants time in court, time away from work and other fees and expenses, while protecting each from ancillary damage: The winning party generally collects more of his disputed amount and the losing party suffers no credit damage from having a judgment entered against him. Expedient Non-Adjudicative Online Resolution is generally utilized in cases that might otherwise be heard in small claims or limited civil matters.\n\nAs an alternative to private, professional settlement, the concept of crowdjustice has recently taken shape as a means to leverage social norms and the wisdom of crowds to determine the outcome of a dispute. This concept forms the basis for the ODR platform Ujuj. Ujuj (pronounced \"you judge\") is a patent pending online alternative to small claims court that allows parties to a small claims case to create their arguments on video and upload them to the Ujuj web site for the Internet public to vote on the outcome. Parties to a case, known as Claimant and Respondent, agree, through an electronically signed contract, to be bound by the final outcome determined by a jury consisting of the Internet public. Registered users select from all open cases, view the video arguments of the Claimant and Respondent, and then cast their vote on a sliding scale from 0% to 100%, which represents the amount that the user feels should be awarded based on the amount claimed by the Claimant. This vote is added to all other votes on the case and upon case expiration, an average vote is calculated from all votes received. This average is then multiplied by the amount claimed to determine the final award.\n\nArbitration is a process where a neutral third party (arbitrator) delivers a decision which is final, and binding on both parties. It can be defined as a quasi-judicial procedure because the award replaces a judicial decision. Arbitrators can be current or former trial judges, but that is not a requirement. However, in an arbitration procedure parties usually can choose the arbitrator and the basis on which the arbitrator makes the decision. Furthermore, it is less formal than litigation, though more than any other consensual process. It is often used to resolve businesses' disputes because this procedure is noted for being private and faster than litigation. Once the procedure is initiated parties cannot abandon it, unless they both agree to discontinuing it (e.g. when they reached a settlement - although usually the settlement will be communicated to the arbitral tribunal and an award rendered on this basis). Another feature of arbitration is that the award is enforceable almost everywhere due to the wide adoption of the 1958 New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards. Moreover, arbitral awards prove frequently easier to enforce than court decisions from overseas.\n\nThe majority of legal studies on online arbitration agree that, neither law, nor arbitral principles, prevent arbitration from taking place online. However, there may be several aspects in online arbitration that need to be regulated. Although online arbitration seems admissible under the New York Convention and the E-Commerce Directive, this is arguably an assumption by most commentators, rather than a legal statement. Since arbitration is based on a contractual agreement between the parties, an online process without a regulatory framework may generate a significant number of challenges from consumers and other weaker parties if due process cannot be assured. Currently, most arbitration providers allow parties to carry out online only part of the arbitration process, e.g. parties may download claim forms, the submission of documents through standard email or secure web interface, the use of telephone hearings, etc. Other providers conduct their proceedings exclusively online, either by email or on a dedicated web platform. A key element of arbitration is the right for a party to question the witnesses of the other parties and that can now be done at low cost with an online audio and video hearing process using newer technologies such as Skype Premium or Google Hangouts. Cross examination of remote witnesses regulated by the arbitrator can ensure the fairness and maintain a judicial quality for the online arbitration process.\n\nThe main challenge for online arbitration is that if judicial enforcement is required then it partly defeats the purpose of having an online process. Alternatively, some processes have developed self-enforcement mechanisms such as technical enforcements, black lists and trustmarks.\n\nTraditionally arbitration resolves disputes by delivering a decision that will be legally binding, i.e. enforceable by the courts in the same manner as a judgment. Non binding arbitration processes may also be effective when using ODR tools because they often encourage settlements by imparting a dose of reality and objectivity. In addition, self-enforcement measures may reinforce the efficacy of non binding processes. The most significant example is the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy (UDRP) created by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). Some commentators have referred to the UDRP as an administrative process. In any case, the UDRP has developed a transparent global ODR process that allows trade mark owners to fight efficiently cybersquatting. The UDRP is used to resolve disputes between trade mark owners and those who have registered a domain name in bad faith for the purpose of reselling it for a profit, or taking advantage of the reputation of a trademark.\n\nTrademark owners accessing the UDRP must prove to the panel three circumstances: \n\nHowever, the UDRP presents its own problems that show the challenges that an online adversarial system applied to mainstream e-commerce disputes would have. The main worry is that the evaluation of the panel decisions often shows a lack of unanimous consensus in the interpretation of the UDRP. This may be due to a number of reasons, such as the lack of an appellative review and panels composed by members from a multitude of jurisdictions and informed by different legal traditions.\n\nOn the other side, it is undeniable what ICANN with the UDRP has achieved in developing an effective ODR procedure based on contractual adherence that allows trade mark owners to transfer or cancel a domain that blatantly violates IP rights. The UDRP providers have dealt efficiently with over 30,000 domain name disputes. Their success derives from two aspects: First, the UDRP deals only with blatant disputes, which are abusive registrations made in bad faith in order to take advantage of the reputation of existing trademarks. Secondly, it has incorporated a self-enforcement mechanism, which transfers and cancels domain names without the need for judicial involvement. This is a positive accomplishment for the development of e-commerce because it favours consumers' confidence in the Internet by reducing the number of fraudulent registered domain names.\n\nOne of the main focuses of e-commerce up until recently has been related to secure payments. Chargebacks is a remedy used to reverse transactions made with credit or debit cards when a fraudulent use has occurred, or when there is a violation of the contract terms. This method is very popular among online consumers since this is the main mechanism to transfer money online. In addition, consumers are not required to give evidence to cancel a payment. The vendor has the burden of proving that the merchandise or service was given according to the contract terms. Once this is proved the bank makes effective the payment to the vendor.\n\nChargebacks are largely used around the world by banks and the main credit card suppliers i.e. Visa, MasterCard and American Express. Yet, the coverage of debit and credit cards varies considerably amongst different countries. Commonly, debit cardholders have fewer protections than credit card holders, but it also varies depending on the jurisdiction.\n\nIt is then not surprising why credit cards are the major source of payments for consumers in e-commerce. They provide a remedy that reverses all transactions when a fraudulent use has occurred, or when there is a violation of the contract terms. However this method has limitations; it offers one single remedy (the return of the payment), and not all disputes imply a breach of contract or fraud.\n\nSimilarly, online payment providers, like PayPal.com, retain temporarily the money paid by a buyer when the latter makes a complaint within 45 days after the payment was made. PayPal.com holds the money until the dispute is settled, but only in those cases where the merchandise did not arrive, or the description of the product was significantly different from the product itself. In these circumstances PayPal.com acts akin to an online arbitrator. However, in those circumstances where the seller takes away the money from his account before the buyer makes the claim, PayPal.com will not be responsible for the buyer's loss. Despite this, PayPal is in a very strong position since in most cases it is able to freeze the amount of money and resolve the dispute providing an instant and effective enforcement.\n\nOverall, chargebacks intends to balance the inequality of power between consumers and businesses. It is regarded as a very efficient tool for consumers because the speed, accessibility and lack of charge for their clients, who would just have to notify their banks or card issuers to cancel a transaction. Thus, Edwards and Wilson suggested that it would be advisable to focus on developing chargebacks and other soft ODR methods because they are very effective amongst mainstream consumers. By contrast, the existing processes are considered largely inefficient and not transparent among businesses because puts businesses in bad light since the onus of the proof rests on them.\n\nSmall claims procedures provide a middle ground between formal litigation and ADR, where disputes involving small value claims can be resolved in courts faster, cheaply, and less formally. The main limitation of small claims procedures is that they are restricted to particular jurisdictions. In order to overcome this limitation the European Commission has produced a regulation for a European Small Claims Procedure (ESCP). Implementation of the ESCP is expected in all EC Member States by January 2009. The ESCP is predominantly a written procedure that deals with claims under €2,000 arising in cross-border disputes. Its main advantage is that it provides for the enforcement of decisions in any of the member states without the present need to go through the formal mutual recognition of judgements (exequatur).\n\nGreat expectations are put on the ESCP, which in order to deliver a cost effective process will have to rely on ICT. This will be a significant challenge, because unlike the UDRP, which is becoming a fully online process for dealing with specific complaints, the ESCP will deal with a variety of civil and commercial disputes. The objective of the ESCP is the creation of a cost efficient procedure applicable to small value claims in cross-border disputes. This objective could only be achieved by using a written procedure, assisted by electronic forms such as emails and videoconferencing as foreseen by the ESCP.\n\nThe Regulation allows the use of new technologies in transferring information and evidence between the courts of the different member states. But, it will be the EC Member States who will decide, through their own regulations, which specific means of communication are acceptable in their courts. Given that the ESCP is a regulation and not a directive, it is arguable whether it has left too many aspects to the discretion of member states, which could call into question the legal certainty expected from a European regulation. Nevertheless, it can be expected that, in due time, electronic communications will reach every possible and reasonable aspect of the judicial procedure to assist in the resolution of online as well as off-line B2C disputes.\n\nWith the implementation of the ESCP an institutionalized ODR may emerge in Europe in 2009. Many disputes will be resolved by judges communicating with parties through the Internet. It is expected that the ESCP will contribute to mitigate the legitimacy problem which also hampers the emergence of ODR. Perhaps, within the EU, where we have concern for the fairness of private procedures (i.e. restrictions in consumer arbitration) the ESCP may contribute to increase trust in ODR processes.\n\nOnline dispute resolution (ODR) in India is in its infancy stage and it is gaining prominence day by day. With the enactment of \"Information Technology Act, 2000\" in India, e-commerce and e-governance have been given a formal and legal recognition in India. Even the traditional arbitration law of India has been reformulated and now India has \"Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996\" in place that is satisfying the harmonised standards of UNCITRAL Model. The amendment made in the\"Code of Civil Procedure, 1908\" by introducing section 89 was made to provide methods of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) in India.\n\nWith a rapid growth of e-commerce in India, the number of disputes related to online transactions is on the rise. The existing dispute redressal mechanisms are falling short of the business growth and customer expectations. Conventional redressal systems require presence of the parties, and are not in synch with modern online platforms. The Department of Consumer Affairs, Government of India has taken note of this and has planned to roll out an Online Consumer Dispute Resolution platform that follows the best practices emerging in the global eCommerce arena. More information of this would be provided at the Online Consumer Mediation Centre web-site. There is another initiative called ODRways, started by students of NUJS, which is working towards promoting mediation in India, by integrating it with technology. They have developed an online mediation platform for small civil claim disputes. They are also working towards building an online platform for mediators in India, which will make it easier for the general public to engage with mediators when they have disputes.\n\n"}
{"id": "58437070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58437070", "title": "Participatory surveillance", "text": "Participatory surveillance\n\nParticipatory surveillance is community-based monitoring of other individuals. This term can be applied to both digital media studies and ecological field studies. In the realm of media studies, it refers to how users surveil each other using the internet. Either through the use of social media, search engines, and other web-based methods of tracking, an individual has the power to find information both freely or non freely given by the individual being searched. Issues of privacy emerge within this sphere of participatory surveillance, predominantly focused on how much information is available on the web that an individual does not consent to. More so, disease outbreak researchers can study social-media based patterns to decrease the time it takes to detect an outbreak, an emerging field of study called infodemiology. Within the realm of ecological fieldwork, participatory surveillance is used as an overarching term for the method in which indigenous and rural communities are used to gain greater accessibility to causes of disease outbreak. By using these communities, disease outbreak can be spotted earlier then through traditional means or healthcare institutions.\n\nTowards the beginning of the development of Web 2.0, an increase in online socializing and interaction emerged, largely from the function of social media platforms. Social media platforms originally emerged within the context of the online information highway, where users can control what information is available to other users of the platform. Users can now digitally attach people to locations, without having to physically be within the location, a concept coined as geotagging. With added awareness of the locations of users, an aspect of greater socialization and interconnectivity emerges within both the digital and tangible world. Since the online information highway collects and stores information more permanently than the physical world, many interactions amongst online users can last much longer than physical ones. Since users can control the information and locations in which they associate themselves, they can in part surveil themselves and others to an extent. This is participatory surveillance within a web-based paradigm.\n\nIn contrast to this, participatory surveillance has begun to be referred to as a tool for ecological field research. Currently, it is extremely difficult to detect disease outbreaks in enough time to prepare people for the outcomes. Often, in hard to reach areas such as the Arctic, researchers cannot gain an intensive look into the subject of disease outbreak closely enough to gain accurate results. Indigenous peoples know the ecology of the land better and how to reach overlooked locations of research. Researchers can use these people as rural surveyors, capturing instances of disease outbreak much quicker and easier than the researchers themselves.\n\nCounter-surveillance refers to the personal monitoring of individuals through means of the online information highway. Through government and corporate surveilling practices, the average person has begun to develop an interest in a type of profiling of friends and others through digital technology. However, this enlightens the fact that the average person does not fully understand the surveilling practices used by larger collectivities. With more training in these capacities, it allows greater accountability and management of how surveillance is used and analyzed in everyday associations. As digital technology advances with many dangers associated to privacy, individuals are attempting to be more accountable when meeting individuals. Background check websites and search engine sources reveal just how many people attempt to find information on another person, whatever the reason. Some researchers assert that by using these technologies of surveillance, the same ones used by companies to track consumer tendencies, the public is essentially feeding into practices of their own personal surveillance.\n\nOne argument towards social media based participatory surveillance is participatory surveillance within social digital media schemas work to emphasize the power that comes from monitoring what is surveilled of themselves in the context of others rather than being constituted as an invasion of privacy, or disempowerment. Within the visual discourse of reality television, the artistic narrative associated with presenting lives, creates a fake reality in which people can contextualize, therefore keeping the reality of some aspects of an individual or collectives lives still privatized. This thinking can be transposed to other socially constructed media technologies. In contrast, ambient awareness is associated with cell phones since they are almost always never turned off, through even the most menial of everyday tasks. This poses a greater security risk. Surveillance webcams focus on the aspects of reality users want to show to the digital audience. It is privatized in the respect that users control what they allow others to see causing them to feel liberated.\n\nAn emerging term within social media based participatory surveillance, infodemiology refers to the use of digital based applications or surveys, to better track disease patterns. Largely using information people search for related to health as well as what the public says on digital-based platforms makes up the fabric of this field of study. Coming about in 2002, infodemiology measures common social media platforms, disease and illness related websites, search engine information, and any other online user-related health data.\n\nTwitter, a user-generated platform for social media, can effectively help track users’ thoughts and opinions on diseases as well as help track disease at a greater rate. For example, the H1N1 virus (swine flu) outbreak in 2009 was analyzed through Twitter reactions and responses in order to investigate these areas of thought. After analyzing and comparing tweets through different severities of the H1NI outbreak, the researchers posited that tweets can be a reliable estimate in understanding disease patterns.\n\nThe speed at which social media reveals public thought and trends is about two weeks faster than that of standardized disease surveillance through the proper health-related institutions. An example of social media reactions related to the H1N1 virus include an increased lack of discussion around antiviral drugs at approximately the same time as the H1N1 virus became less prevalent. However, due to the nature of social media as user-generated and unregulated, deciphering between what is relevant versus irrelevant material can blur generalizations and facts. Along with this, people are wavering and unreliable with when and what they post about on social media. With that, social media is an unstable variable which, in order to become standardized, would require great expense to create measures in which it would become feasible to make valid generalizations about. To elaborate using the example of Twitter, information on sickness can change meaning in a connotative sense. For example, if a user tweets about popular pop artist Justin Bieber saying they have “Bieber Fever,” this is very apparently not a real sickness, but a faux sickness based on the popularity of an artist. This creates issues in organizing information, requiring complex algorithms that can analyze the contours of these social meanings. Nonetheless, a recent study noted that studies focusing on the use of Youtube to detect outbreaks only had a twenty to thirty percent range of error, leading researchers' to continue looking into the prospect of social media as a force for change in disease outbreak.\n\nChikungunya virus, associated with moderate to severe skin rashes and joint pain, spread to Italy at the beginning of 2007. The outbreak caused great social concern, therefore causing a plethora of social media reactions to emerge. Using an infodemiological approach, the sites where the outbreak was recorded, specifically PubMed, Twitter, Google Trends and News, and Wikipedia views and edits all provided information into when the disease was received, the concerns associated with the outbreak, and popular opinion on the disease. Interestingly, most of the Twitter posts related to Chikungunya were highly guided by search engine queries rather than empirical investigations, leading to non-usable data. Using mediation technology, Wikipedia proved to be ineffective in determining whether the site was helpful in understanding the outbreak. Moreover, users who gained opinions on the outbreak from news sources were similar to the Wikipedia edits and reactions. Similarly, the PubMed responses were consistent with that of the Wikipedia and Twitter responses. Overall, a significant amount of information was gathered from these sources, deeming these sites to be useful in documenting disease and public reaction.\n\nIn hard to access regions such as the Arctic and rural regions in Canada, researching ecological processes and disease spread can be hard to access without constant monitoring. In these rural, less populated area, indigenous populations may become a key aspect in understanding the spread of disease, due to their proximity and connection to the land. For example, the use of Inuit indigenous peoples in helping to identify outbreak zones of avian cholera. Specifically, the Common Eider, a species of sea duck, was being analyzed in Canada. Using the help of the Inuit peoples, the researchers were able to detect the outbreak of cholera in thirteen locations from 2004 to 2016. The Inuit peoples were able to keep a closer eye on death rates of the Common Eider due to their daily routines throughout the land.\n\nAs digital technology advances with many dangers associated to privacy, individuals are attempting to be more accountable when meeting others. Background check websites and search engine sources reveal just how many people attempt to find information on another person, whatever the reason. Many researchers altogether ignore the idea of privacy when analyzing methods of participatory surveillance. More so, from a social media perspective, some researchers claim that by openly sharing information with others, this cannot be deemed a breach of privacy. However, a few researchers on the topic mention breaches of privacy within the spheres of both digital media studies and infodemiology.\n\nInfodemiology relies on users' information to analyze health patterns and public health concerns. However, the legality behind using other people's information without their consent can cause serious ethical privacy violations. However, limitations such as individual privacy concerns and unreliable information cause participatory digital information to sometimes be inaccurate and hard to differentiate from truth.\n\nDoxing is a form of cyberbullying, using the Internet to post private information about an individual or organization as a means of attack against the entity. Common information that can be leaked can be anything from a past discretion, home address, or even social security number of the victim. This information could be freely available on the Internet for the attacker to gain access to and make public. This differentiates it from other types of information leaks, since the information is simply being brought to the forefront of the public's viewing. In other words, the public information being leaked could be found freely by other parties even if it was not exposed in a more public light. The term \"doxing\" comes from the origins of document, first used in 2001 with the infamous hacker collective called Anonymous. With today's current laws, most legislation pertaining to cyber threats and attacks are rooted in the 1990s, when the Internet was just developing. Due to information being stored online, doxing does not adhere to standard rights of privacy. Constitutionally, individuals should have the right to disclose or not disclose information, while at the same time being able to make decisions about privacy. The Fourth Amendment protects the right to free speech, but doxing uniquely uses information available to the public, leading some 'doxers' to claim that they are simply exercising their Fourth Amendment rights.\n\nThe only exception to Fourth Amendment rights came about from \"Cohen v. California,\" which established the \"true threat\" exception. This exception established a breach of free speech rights whenever the content of the speech maliciously invades privacy interests. However, this exception may only work in some doxing situations, where the court measures the extent of the offense and the reactions from the attack.\n\n"}
{"id": "16808633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16808633", "title": "Pedestrian detection", "text": "Pedestrian detection\n\nPedestrian detection is an essential and significant task in any intelligent video surveillance system, as it provides the fundamental information for semantic understanding of the video footages. It has an obvious extension\nto automotive applications due to the potential for improving safety systems. Many car manufacturers (e.g. Volvo, Ford, GM, Nissan) offer this as an ADAS option in 2017.\n\n\nDespite the challenges, pedestrian detection still remains an active research area in computer vision in recent years. Numerous approaches have been proposed.\n\nDetectors are trained to search for pedestrians in the video frame by scanning the whole frame. The detector would “fire” if the image features inside the local search window meet certain criteria. Some methods employ global features such as edge template\n, others uses local features like histogram of oriented gradients descriptors. The drawback of this approach is that the performance can be easily affected by background clutter and occlusions.\n\nPedestrians are modeled as collections of parts. Part hypotheses are firstly generated by learning local features, which include edgelet and orientation features. These part hypotheses are then joined to form the best assembly of existing pedestrian hypotheses. Though this approach is attractive, part detection itself is a difficult task. Implementation of this approach follows a standard procedure for processing the image data that consists of first creating a densely sampled image pyramid, computing features at each scale, performing classification at all possible locations, and finally performing non-maximal suppression to generate the final set of bounding boxes.\n\nRecently Leibe et al. proposed an approach combining both the detection and segmentation with the name Implicit Shape Model (ISM). A codebook of local appearance is learned during the training process. In the detecting process, extracted local features are used to match against the codebook entries, and each match casts one vote for the pedestrian hypotheses. Final detection results can be obtained by further refining those hypotheses. The advantage of this approach is only a small number of training images are required.\n\nWhen the conditions permit (fixed camera, stationary lighting conditions, etc.), background subtraction can help to detect pedestrians. Background subtraction classifies the pixels of video streams as either background, where no motion is detected, or foreground, where motion is detected. This procedure highlights the silhouettes (the connected components in the foreground) of every moving element in the scene, including people. An algorithm has been developed, at the university of Liège, to analyze the shape of these silhouettes in order to detect the humans. Since the methods that consider the silhouette as a whole and perform a single classification are, in general, highly sensitive to shape defects, a part-based method splitting the silhouettes in a set of smaller regions has been proposed to decrease the influence of defects. To the contrary of other part-based approaches, these regions do not have any anatomical meaning. This algorithm has been extended to the detection of humans in 3D video streams.\n\nFleuret et al. suggested a method for integrating multiple calibrated cameras for detecting multiple pedestrians. In this approach, The ground plane is partitioned into uniform, non-overlapping grid cells, typically with size of 25 by 25 (cm). The detector produces a Probability Occupancy Map (POM), it provides an estimation of the probability of each grid cell to be occupied by a person. Given two to four synchronized video streams taken at eye level and from different angles, this method can effectively combine a generative model with dynamic programming to accurately follow up to six individuals across thousands of frames in spite of significant occlusions and lighting changes. It can also derive metrically accurate trajectories for each one of them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39480869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39480869", "title": "San Francisco graft trials", "text": "San Francisco graft trials\n\nThe San Francisco graft trials were a series of attempts from 1905 to 1908 to prosecute members of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, San Francisco Mayor Eugene Schmitz, attorney Abe Ruef, who were receiving bribes, and business owners who were paying the bribes. Political boss and attorney Ruef was at the center of the corruption, acting as attorney to Mayor Eugene Schmitz. He approved all contracts and received hundreds of thousands of dollars in payment from business owners, keeping a portion for himself and distributing the remainder to the Mayor and members of the Board of Supervisors.\n\nFormer mayor James Phelan along with banker Rudolph Spreckels and editor Fremont Older of the \"San Francisco Bulletin\" asked United States District Attorney Francis Heney, fresh from a successful stint as special assistant to the U.S. Attorney General's office in prosecuting the Oregon land fraud scandal, to help put an end to the corruption. Heney charged Ruef and Schmitz with numerous counts of bribery and brought them to trial. Heney rejected a juror because he was an ex-con and publicly accused Ruef of trying to plant him on the jury. During the trial, the rejected juror shot Heney in the face, but Heney survived. The juror was found dead in jail the next morning, and many suspected Ruef and his allies of complicity in his death. Some members of the public thought that Sheriff William Biggy was negligent, and when he fell off a boat late one night and drowned, some thought it may have been suicide, but others thought he may have been murdered.\n\nRuef's trial was eventually brought to a successful close by Assistant District Attorney Hiram Johnson and after several appeals Ruef served four years in San Quentin Prison. While there he wrote a series of tell-all columns for Older's \"Bulletin\" newspaper implicating a number of companies, executives, and public officials. Mayor Schmitz was found guilty, jailed, and then released and retried, but did not serve any time. All of the business owners and supervisors implicated received immunity for their testimony about Ruef's and Schmitz's complicity and were not arrested or charged. When new District Attorney Fisker, a former athlete, was elected, he stopped the investigations and all further prosecutions.\n\nDuring the first decade of the 20th Century in the United States, employers supported an open shop movement and were decidedly anti-union. They were able to obtain government support to prevent workers from organizing. California was a center of corruption at the time, indirectly influenced by the Southern Pacific Railroad which had exerted a large degree of control over California politics for many years. This is evidenced by the refusal of Stephen T. Gage, one of the directors of the Southern Pacific Railway, and Richard Chute, a salaried employee of the same company, to obey a summons from the 1891 Wallace Grand Jury until compelled by the California State Supreme Court.\n\nThese companies and other well-funded interest groups and individuals used their economic power and influence to form trusts and monopolies that guaranteed them power. Many of these wealthy and powerful people lived in San Francisco, the largest port on the West Coast, and when necessary could reinforce their hold on power through corrupt politicians and city bosses.\n\nIn the spring of 1901, San Francisco employers made a decision to try to push back gains made by the trade unions during the previous two years. They formed a secret employers' association. Its bylaws stipulated that no member could settle a strike by a union without permission from the executive committee.\n\nIn January 1901, members of IBEW Local 6 went on strike, demanding an increase from $5.00 to $6.00 a day (about $ to $ in 2018). On April 1, laundry workers walked out, also seeking a wage increases and an eight-hour work day. Within the month, most San Francisco laundries accepted their demands, although laundries outside San Francisco continued to resist complying.\n\nOn May 1, 6,000 of the Cooks' and Waiters' Union walked out, demanding one day off per week, a ten-hour work day, and a union shop in all city restaurants. They were joined by the Carriage Makers union and journeymen butchers, and on May 20, the International Association of Machinists announced a nationwide strike.\n\nTo counter the success of the unions, the secret Employers' Association hired an attorney, M.F. Michael, who was initially their sole visible face. He announced in an interview published on May 10, 1901, that the employers were unalterably opposed to a closed shop and they would not negotiate that point. The Employers' Association received up to $500,000 in anonymous donations and used their financial muscle to threaten to cut off supplies to anyone who broke ranks.\n\nDuring the next two days, 500 women telephone operators and 1,500 streetcar operators also went on strike. On May 7, 1907, what would later be called \"Bloody Tuesday\", six streetcars carrying armed guards attempted to leave the carbarn. An enraged mob threw rocks and bricks, gunfight erupts between guards and men shooting from nearby vacant lots. From inside carbarns, strikebreakers opened fire on crowd. Two dead, 20 wounded.\n\nThe contract for handling the baggage for attendees of a national convention of the Epworth League in San Francisco was given to a non-union company. During the prior year, a union company was hired during another convention in San Francisco to handle the baggage, but many attendees did not receive their luggage until they were ready to leave town. Tens of thousands of attendees were projected to attend, and the Drayman's Association was hoping to avoid a similarly embarrassing episode. However, the non-union company given the contract was unable to fulfill its obligations and sought the assistance of firm controlled by the newly organized Brotherhood of Teamsters. The union refused to work on a job with non-union men. In response, the Draymen's Association, under pressure from the Employers' Association, locked out the city's unionized teamsters on July 21. They were hoping to break the power of the teamsters' union.\n\nFearing that the teamsters' union would be crushed, the San Francisco Labor Council directed the City Front Federation, led by its President Andrew Furuseth, including the city's 14 maritime unions, the Sailor's Union of the Pacific, the longshoremen's unions to strike in support of the locked out teamsters. A total of about 16,000 longshoremen, clerks, packers, and warehouse workers on both sides of San Francisco Bay joined the work stoppage, further increasing the tense situation. The lockout spread to the entire waterfront, which shut down much of the Bay Area's transportation and as a result most commerce.\n\nBoth sides refused to compromise on their stance for a closed or an open shop. Both accused the other of conspiracy and aggressive tactics, further aggravating tensions and confusing the public. During July, regional produce was ready to be shipped, and the employers hired strikebreakers. Democratic Mayor James D. Phelan, who had served three consecutive terms, designated the employers' strikebreakers as \"special deputies\", allowing them to wear badges, bear arms, and carry clubs, and told the police to protect the strikebreakers. Farmers grew frustrated when their wheat stood on the docks and began to load and move their own crops. Former Army teamsters, returning from the war in the Philippines, gladly filled the available strikebreaking jobs, and university students from the University of California took jobs.\n\nThe employers' strikebreakers were met by the unions with force and the employers called for police intervention. The strikers threw rocks at the strikebreakers and marbles under the feet of the horses pulling the carts. The mayor's actions did nothing to stop the violence and inflamed the union leadership. They accused the strikebreakers of routine brutality and violence. Mayor Phelan had been elected in large measure due to the support of organized labor but now he sided with the employers. At a meeting in his office, he refused to withdraw the policemen from the waterfront. In anger, labor attendees falsely reported that Phelan told them, \"If you don't want to be clubbed, get back to work.\" His attitude further enraged the labor leadership.\n\nOn September 29, after four months of strikes and increased violence, a bloody riot and gun battle broke out on Kearny Street in broad daylight. The employers' strikebreakers attacked the union blockade. Picketing workers were clubbed, five workers were shot and killed, and 336 were injured. Hundreds more were arrested and the strike was broken. On October 3, California Governor Henry T. Gage stepped in and threatened all parties with the imposition of martial law. He convened a meeting of the Drayman's Association and the Teamsters Union, eliminating the employers association. The terms of the settlement were never made public, but the result was that the employers were able to retain an open shop, though they could not exclude members of the union. The employers' association, flush with success, soon disbanded.\n\nAnticipating defeat, on September 5, 1901, about 300 delegates representing 68 of San Francisco's unions met at a convention and established the Union Labor Party of the City and County of San Francisco. The convention approved a platform including a call for the revision of the city charter to curb future intervention by the city administration in labor disputes, a demand for municipal ownership of all public utilities, building more schools, promoting teachers based on merit, and ending the poll tax. The platform also contained a nativist demand that called for restricting Asian immigration and creating racially segregated schools for Asian children. Some organized labor, including the State Building Trades Council led by P.H. McCarthy, refused to join the new labor party.\n\nAbe Ruef was a Republican for a number of years when it was generally seen as the party of the Southern Pacific Railroad and its allies. Ruef patiently built a patronage empire over several years. He methodically sought out neighborhood associations, ethnic clubs, and other civic groups, supporting them with contributions and payments, and providing services like leniency from a local judge and quick approval of a business license. Ruef competed with Michael Casey, president of the Teamsters Union, for control of the union, but eventually ceded the contest, but not his influence, to Casey.\n\nEugene Schmitz played the violin, conducted the orchestra at the Columbia Theatre on Powell Street in San Francisco, and was president of the Musician's Union. He and Ruef had been friends for 15 years. When the Union Labor Party sought a candidate for mayor, Ruef contributed $16,000 (about $ today) to Schmitz's campaign and used his considerable influence to make sure Schmitz was selected to front for the new Union Labor Party. Ruef wrote the Union Labor Party's platform and built a strong, behind-the-scenes network of supporters, including the more than 1,000 saloon keepers and another 1,000 bartenders in San Francisco, who all influenced political discussions in their saloons.\n\nOnce the strike was concluded, Mayor Phelan found he had no friends and was forced to drop out of the race. The Republicans nominated Asa R. Wells and the Democrats chose Joseph A. Tobin. The local citizens supported the Union Labor Party because they felt it was more sensitive to their needs even though the elected officials were enormously corrupt, and Schmitz was narrowly elected on November 7, 1901, winning 21,776 of the 52,168 votes cast; the Republicans and Democrats split the remainder, allowing Schmitz to take office. Although the labor party only won three of the Board of Supervisors' seats, they managed to control many of the city commissions due to appointments made by the mayor. With union control of the mayor's office, San Francisco became the first union-run city in the United States.\n\nSchmitz was less corrupt than the mayors who preceded him, but he had to deal with Ruef, who operated from his offices at California and Kearney Streets. He wrote most of the mayor's official papers and conducted an ongoing series of meetings with Mayor Schmitz, city commissioners, officials, seekers of favors or jobs, and others. Officially an unpaid attorney for the mayor's office, he was the power behind the mayor's chair.\n\nThe first company to seek his advice was the Theodore Halsey, a confidential political agent for the Pacific States Telephone and Telegraph Company. He paid Ruef a retainer of $1,250 (about $ in 2018) a month for \"advice\" on municipal issues. After the graft prosecutions, E.F. Pillsbury, General Counsel for the telephone company, revealed that he had never heard of Ruef's employment, and would have objected to Ruef receiving compensation greater than his own $1,000 per month.\n\nMany others followed suit, hiring him even when they had no need for his legal services. Company's payments to Ruef varied depending on the favor wanted, from a few thousand to hundreds of thousands of dollars. If you wanted a city permit or contract, you had to go through one man, Ruef.\n\nRuef pocketed half and passed the balance to the Mayor and his ally on the Board of Supervisors, James L. Gallagher. Gallagher then divided the amount he received among their loyal Supervisors. When a decision needed to be made, Ruef would meet with the Supervisors privately beforehand and even suggest statements they might make to give the appearance of independent action. Schmitz ran for re-election in 1903 although the Union Labor Party still failed to win a majority of the Board of Supervisors.\n\nAmong the cases of graft was the Pacific Gas & Electric Company, who had completed consolidating the gas, light and power companies in San Francisco and in all of central California into a single entity. Frank G. Drum, one of the new company's largest stockholders, paid Ruef a confidential retainer of $1,000 a month. The Board of Supervisors, all members of the Union Labor party, had before the election called for rolling the gas rate from $1.00 per 1000 cubic feet back to 75¢. On April 2, shortly before the Supervisors were to vote on the rate change, a fire destroyed a major electrical substation at 22nd Ave. and Georgia St. Ruef decided to seek an 85¢ rate, but several Supervisors wanted additional reasons to support the change. Ruef asked Drum for $20,000, which Drum delivered soon afterward in cash. The Supervisors approved an 85 cent gas rate, though some voted against the proposal.\n\nAnother instance was a group of investors led by William H. Crocker, son of Big Four Charles Crocker and president of The Crocker Bank. They organized the Parkside Realty Co. in July, 1905, and assembled a parcel of land on the western edge of the city, five blocks across and 20 blocks long, stretching to within a block and a half of the Pacific Ocean. Before they could begin building homes, they needed approval for a streetcar franchise. They wanted to build a mile-long streetcar line that connected to the existing United Railroad's line on the south side of Golden Gate Park. The extension would allow residents of the future subdivision to easily travel to the city center.\n\nThe Parkside Realty Co. was unable to persuade the Supervisors to support their streetcar project. The Supervisors wanted their cut, and the company finally held a secret banquet, not publicly revealed until 1910, to seek the supervisors' support. Supervisor Dr. Charles Boxton asked, \"How much money is in it for us?\" The investors agreed to pay Ruef $30,000 for two years. The Supervisors approved the requested trolley franchise, although Ruef never passed any funds to the supervisors. The remaining payment was later halted by the graft prosecution, and only $15,000 was ever handed over.\nBy about 1900, half of the streetcar lines in San Francisco had been converted to overhead trolley routes, but a great many favored placing the power lines in underground conduits which was considerably more expensive. Eastern investors led by Patrick Calhoun took over the system, inheriting a number of lines built by a variety of competing companies over many years. In 1900, the system had of track, of cable, of overhead trolley, for horse cars, and of ancient steam railroad. United Railroad was dead set against paying for underground conduit. \n\nIn 1902, Tirey L. Ford, who was the Attorney General of the State of California, began making regular, secret payments for United Railroads to Abe Ruef to act as their special consulting attorney. On September 15, 1902, Ford resigned as Attorney General and accepted the position of General Counsel to United Railroads. Ford was found to be innocent by a San Francisco jury and by the District Court of Appeals Judge William P. Lawlor.\n\nThe ongoing corruption began to affect the quality of public services, and citizens began to seek reform. A Grand Jury was convened, and began to take testimony about extent of the graft. Former Mayor Phelan, in concert with Rudolph Spreckels, president of the San Francisco First National Bank, and Fremont Older, editor of the \"San Francisco Bulletin\", decided to try to challenge the Labor Party's corrupt choke-hold on city politics and commerce. Phelan and Spreckles were among the largest property-owners in San Francisco.\n\nThey approached Francis Heney, who as Special Assistant to the U.S. Attorney General's office, had just concluded a successful prosecution of corrupt government officials in the Oregon land fraud scandal. Heney came to San Francisco and in one of his first public statements, made a speech on November 5, 1905, the day before the election. He said, \"If I had control of the District Attorney's office, I would indict Abe Ruef for felony and send him to the penitentiary, where he belongs, for I have personal knowledge that he is corrupt.\" Ruef didn't sit still for Heney's allegations, and responded in the newspaper two days later. \"In making the statement that you personally know that I am corrupt you lied. You cannot personally know that which does not exist... You show the same courage which put a bullet into the body of Dr. John C. Handy of Tucson, Ariz. in 1891, for whose killing you were indicted for murder, and upon trial were acquitted because you were the only witness to the deed.\"\n\nIn 1905, the labor party was heavily opposed by the three local newspapers and a united Republican-Democrat combined ticket who had united to defeat the union party. On November 7, Schmitz was re-elected and the union gained complete control of the Board of Supervisors. Of the 80,000 registered voters, only 68,878 voted for mayor and of those, 40,191 voted for Schmitz. Members of the Board of Supervisors had no prior political experience. L.A. Rea had been in the decorating business; W.W. Sanderson had been a well-placed executive in the grocery business; Samuel Davis was a drummer; Edward Walsh a foreman in a shoe factory; C.J. Harrington and Patrick McCusshin had both been saloon-keepers; Jennings Phillips, a sprinter; F.P. Nicholas, a carpenter and former Carpenter's union president; James Kelley, a piano finisher and polisher; Max Manlock, an electrician; Thomas Longergan, a baker; Charles Dexter, a dentist; Michael Coffey, a hack driver; Daniel Coleman, a clerk with a wallpaper dealer; John J. Purri, a blacksmith; and Gallagher was a lawyer. Ruef had effective control over every branch and department in San Francisco.\n\nAfter the 1905 election, Ruef conducted a private, weekly caucus on Sunday, the night before the Board of Supervisors meetings, for members of the board, Mayor Schmitz, and the board's clerk and Ruef's protege and former law clerk, George B. Keane. Ruef ran the meetings and Keane took notes as they discussed matters to come before the board. Ruef assembled a list of members to serve on the various board committees which were implemented almost without changes. Ruef directed them to meet with him first before they held any other public meetings. There was only one weak link in Ruef's complete domination of the city administration, and that was the new District Attorney William H. Langdon, who had been Superintendent of Schools for three years. During the election, Langdon repeatedly promised, \"The laws are on the statute books. I pledge myself to the enforcement of those laws,\" but few paid much attention to his statements. Ruef thought Langdon would help reach the teachers and students.\n\nOlder's newspaper, the \"Bulletin\", which had been Ruef's most vociferous opponent, suffered greatly after the election. Ruef had promised to break the newspaper with libel suits, but he resorted to more crude methods. The newspaper's manager was assaulted and beaten, as were carriers and agents. The newsboys were organized into a union who promptly went out on strike. Deliveries to stores were interrupted or followed by stones through the windows. The police did nothing. Older met with Heney in Washington D.C., and persuaded him to come to San Francisco and meet with Spreckels and himself.\n\nIn February 1906, Langdon astonished many in the labor party and city politics when he initiated a raid on gambling dens across the city. The underworld running the games expected to be raided and closed down before an election, not afterward, and the exact opposite had taken place in San Francisco. They felt they had paid protection money under false pretenses. Ruef was unable to persuade Langdon to desist. A few honest citizens began to believe the Ruef's ironclad grip on city politics could be broken.\n\nDuring the meeting in March, 1906, Spreckles and Older each promised to give $5,000 to support his efforts, and to raise another $90,000 to finance his efforts. When Heney expressed interest, Older went to Washington, D. C. and persuaded President Roosevelt to loan special federal prosecutor Heney to the San Francisco District Attorneys office. Roosevelt agreed. In that meeting Heney offered to accept as his fee whatever was left out of the initial $100,000 fund, stating \"But I don't there will be anything left and I will put up my time against your money.\" In the end, Heney didn't receive any compensation for his work, and in fact gave up lucrative legal work to stay with the prosecution.\n\nOn March 10, the Board of Supervisors granted the Home Telegraph Company a 50-year exclusive franchise to provide phone dial service to San Francisco, an act that brought immediate condemnation from the \"San Francisco Examiner\". They reminded the board in an editorial that their election platform had included the city acquiring its own telephone system. The Examiner wrote that the board \"should clear the record of the SUSPICIOUS CIRCUMSTANCES that surround the vote on the matter.\"\n\nBy the time of the November, 1905 election, the United Railroad was embroiled in a bitter fight with Rudolph Spreckels and James Phelan who resisted overhead trolly lines along Sutter Street where they owned property. Calhoun tried to buy their support by promising more parks and improvements along the Golden Gate Park Panhandle, where ex-Mayor Phelan owned a great deal of property, but both men continued to oppose the overhead trolley plan and insist on more expensive underground conduits. They believed the overhead lines would be noisy, unsightly, and a fire hazard. He and others felt that San Francisco, like Washington D.C. and New York, merited an underground system.\n\nFord, representing Calhoun and United Railroad, upped is monthly retainer to Ruef from $500 to $1000 (about $ to $ in 2018) after the 1905 election, and the two sides finally agreed on a deal that called for the company to pay for ornamental street poles and the electric lights along their trolley routes.\n\nA majority of the local citizens and community improvement associations also preferred undergrounding the trolley car power lines, supported by Municipal engineers who had visited several east coast cities and concluded that an underground conduit was more favorable than overhead trolley lines. The railroad resisted, publicly stating that the believed the conduits would fill with water. When Spreckels offered to pay for the cost of draining an underground conduit for a test period to prove it was feasible, Calhoun, President, and George P. Chapman, General Manager of the United Railroads, refused. Calhoun even offered to pay what he estimated to be the cost difference the underground and overhead systems to the city for any purpose they desired.\n\nUnited Railroads was actually resistant to the upfront cost for undergrounding the power lines, more than twice that of the overhead system, which would take much longer to recover from operating income. Ford offered Ruef an additional $50,000 fee that Ruef turned down, insisting on a larger payment. They ultimately agreed on a $200,000 fee to be paid when work was complete, which meant that the supervisors approved their trolly route with overhead trolly lines. To bring further pressure on Calhoun, James Phelan, George Whittell, Rudolph Spreckels, his father Claus Spreckels, and Charles S. Wheeler filed papers on April 17, 1906 to incorporate the Municipal Street Railways of San Francisco, in order to prove that underground conduits were economical and superior, and to bring pressure to bear on Calhoun to give up his resistance to undergrounding the electrical lines. Their actions generated immediate public support. Calhoun finally proposed to submit the issue to a referendum vote by the people, but it turned out he meant the Board of Supervisors, whose vote Calhoun knew he could count on. He wrote a letter saying that he would submit the matter \"to the proper authorities of the city\" was resented by the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", who condemned it as breathing \"the spirit of insolence\" and containing \"ill-concealed menace.\"\n\nOn April 18, 1906, the city was struck by a massive earthquake, and fires burned for four days, destroying 80 percent of the city. Mayor Schmitz formed an extra-legal Committee of Fifty that was tasked with managing the city during the crisis that followed, which delayed the graft prosecution for a short time. Four days later, crews from the United Railroad began stringing temporary overhead trolley wires on Market St., but did not repair the cable traction system in the street.\n\nOn the day of the earthquake, Wednesday, April 18, Mayor Schmitz invited a cross section of the city's most prominent businessmen, politicians, civic leaders, entrepreneurs, newspaper men and politicians, but none of the members of the Board of Supervisors or Abraham Ruef, to form the Committee of Fifty to help him manage the crisis.\n\nMembers of the Committee included individuals that would later be indicted for graft, including Abe Ruef and Tirey L. Ford.\n\nThe Committee was also referred to as Committee of Safety, Citizens' Committee of Fifty, or Relief and Restoration Committee of Law and Order. It first assembled the afternoon of the earthquake in the basement of the ruined Hall of Justice at 3 p.m. It was forced by the approaching fire to abandon the location and moved across Portsmouth Square to the Plaza Hotel. They had to abandon that location only two hours later. At 8 p.m. the Committee assembled at the Fairmont Hotel's ballroom, sitting along the edge of the stage and on packing cases. At this point, they set up 19 subcommittees, and shortly after 11 p.m., they dispersed.\n\nThe Fairmont Hotel burned down that night, and on Thursday, April 19, the Committee met at 6 a.m. at the North End police station. Once again, the spreading fires forced them to move, and the group reconvened at 2 p.m. at Franklin Hall, which became known as Temporary City Hall. Abe Ruef appeared At 4:30 p.m. and although he had not been called as a member, he offered his services, which Mayor Schmitz accepted. Ruef became chairman of an additional sub-committee, trying unsuccessfully to relocate the Chinese to the margins of the city.\n\nUntil the earthquake struck, San Francisco was the most prominent and prosperous city in the state. Funds cleared through San Francisco banks increased 80 percent between 1900 and 1905. The city had grown from 342,782 in 1900 to an estimated 500,000 by 1906. San Francisco was one of the most promising places for investment in all of the United States. Many companies were vying for a piece of the money to be made. The Home Telephone Company financed by investors from Southern California and Ohio was trying to wrest the telephone franchise held exclusively by Pacific States Telephone and Telegraph Company. The Spring Valley Water Company, backed by Ruef, successfully blocked consideration of Hetch Hetchy as a source of water for the growing city. Ruef believed he and the city administrators stood to receive as much as $1,000,000 from the Spring Valley deal.\n\nOn May 14, 1906, Supervisors gave United Railroads permission to string overhead trolley wires on Market St. The next day the \"Examiner\" accused United Railroads of exploiting the disaster to push through its overhead trolley franchise. Mayor Schmitz said the approval was only temporary, but that did not prove to be true. Supervisor Gallagher later testified during Ruef's trial that he told Ruef that board members would accept $4,000 as payment to approve the overhead trolley lines. United Railroads proceeded to install overhead power on all of its lines, even those cable car lines that were still operational after the earthquake and fire, without paying anything to the city for its franchise. The Home Telephone Company contributed $75,000 to a relief fund for the city, but asked that it be held until their franchise was approved.\n\nGraft extended to the ordinary police officer on the beat. On April 24, 1907, the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" published a tally of fees illegal operations were expected to pay. Brothels paid officers on the street $5 per week, sergeants $15, captains $25, and the Police Chief $75 to $100 each week. This schedule also extended to gambling houses and saloons that offered prostitutes.\n\nWilliam J. Burns, a former Secret Service Agent who had assisted Heney during the prosecution of the Oregon land graft scandal, was hired to assist Heney. He quietly began gathering evidence in June, 1906.\n\nSpreckels was so eager to remove Schmitz from office, that on May 10, 1906, he told Heney he would obtain the funds necessary to underwrite the costs of prosecuting members of the Schmitz Administration for graft. He and Older encouraged San Francisco District Attorney William H. Langdon to support their efforts to end the corruption. While the union thought that Langdon would support their cause, he held firm to his principles. On October 21, 1906, he published a statement saying he intended to convene a Grand Jury to investigate the rise in crime and the widely reported instances of corruption.\n\nOn October 24, 1906, Langdon appointed Heney as an assistant district attorney. The grand jury was scheduled to convene on October 26. Mayor Schmitz was traveling in Europe, so the next day James L. Gallagher, chairman of the board of supervisors and acting mayor, acting at the behest of Abe Ruef, suspended Langdon for alleged \"neglect of office\". His motion at the board of supervisors meeting was read and adopted without debate or opposition. As requested by Ruef, the primary targets of the investigation, Gallagher appointed him as acting district attorney. Ruef then attempted to fire Heney, writing him a curt note, \"You are hereby removed from the position of Assistant District Attorney of the City and County of San Francisco.\" Heney rebuffed Ruef's action, saying he did not recognize Ruef as district attorney.\n\nHeney filed a temporary restraining motion before Superior Court Judge Seawell to bar Ruef from acting as district attorney, who granted it at 5:00 a.m. the next morning. The judge ordered a police officer and two deputy sheriffs installed in the District Attorney's office to prevent Ruef from occupying it. All three city newspapers soundly condemned Ruef's transparent attempt to scuttle the investigation and prosecution. The \"Examiner\" called their actions \"the last stand of criminals hunted and driven to bay.\" The \"Bulletin\" headline read, \"Ruef's Illegal Action is Confession of Guilt.\" In early November, Judge Seawell ruled that the injunction prohibiting Ruef from replacing Langdon as district attorney would stand.\n\nOn October 28, Tirey Ford, the general counsel for United Railroads, told the \"San Francisco Examiner\", \"Of course there was no bribery nor offer to bribe, nor was there anything done except upon clean and legitimate lines.\" Ironically, Ford had been appointed to the State Board of Prison Directors in 1905, a position he maintained throughout the time charges were pending against him.\n\nThe grand jury was impaneled at the temporary court set up in Temple Israel, at 2:00 p.m. on October 26, 1906, as Langdon had promised, and with Langdon still officially in office. Hundreds of people tried to attend the proceedings, and the police packed the courtroom with Ruef supporters, allowing only a few supporters of the prosecution. Outside, the largest percentage of those present cheered the arrival of Langdon, Heney, and Spreckels. Ruef appeared guarded by two police officers.\n\nThe grand jury heard testimony about \"French Restaurants\" in the Tenderloin district of San Francisco that supplied both food and \"private supper bedrooms\" for their patrons and prostitutes. When the police commission acted in January 1905 to close down all such establishments, they were advised to call on Ruef. Ruef was a nightly patron of one of the establishments, known as the \"Pup,\" owned by Jean Loupy. The several restaurants paid Ruef a \"retainer\" of $8,000 (about $ today), half of which he gave to Mayor Schmitz, who had advised the police commissioner to close them down in the first place. Ruef appeared before the Police Commission and proposed a method for regulating the French Restaurants, none of which affected the way they had already been operating, and his regulations were approved.\n\nAfter only two weeks of testimony, the grand jury returned indictments on November 15 against Schmitz and Ruef on five counts each of extortion. Ruef initially refused to stand when the indictments were read, and when required to stand, insolently stood with his back to the judge. Ruef publicly denounced the indictments, insisting that he had merely accepted fees in return for services. \"I was simply acting in the relation of attorney to a client.\" Schmitz, who had been vacationing in Europe, turned around and headed home for San Francisco. Both men were arraigned on December 6, and it became apparent that their strategy would start with a fight to evade or postpone trial by attacking the validity of the grand jury.\n\nFor three days the defense attorneys challenged members of the grand jury, but Judge Dunne finally swept aside all of their technical objections. The defense then tried to convince the judge that Spreckels had personal motives in paying the costs of Heney's prosecution, and then they attacked Langdon's motives for hiring Heney. This lasted until January 22, when Dunne once again set aside all of the defense's motions. The defense then tried to get the case moved from Dunne's court, without success. Congressman Julius Kahn, a supporter of Schmitz, then requested that Schmitz come to Washington, D.C. immediately to discuss the issue of whether Japanese should be allowed to attend San Francisco Schools. Schmitz didn't return until March 6, delaying the trial further.\n\nWhile Schmitz was away, Ruef was finally forced to enter a plea of not guilty, and his trial was set for March 5. But the day before the trial was to begin, Ruef's attorney's succeeded in raising an issue in Judge Hebbard's court that required intervention of the federal courts. That appearance was set for May 2 in Washington before the Supreme Court. Then Ruef disappeared and failed to show up in Dunne's court the next Monday. Dunne ruled that the trial in his court would proceed, regardless of what was transpiring in Judge Hebbard's court, which he felt was a fraud. He ordered Ruef's bonds forfeited and Ruef's arrest. Ruef's attorneys then tried to appeal to the State Appellate Court, who denied the writ, unsigned by the absent defendant. County Sheriff O'Neil was unable to find Ruef, and Judge Denne replaced him with the County Coroner, W.J. Walsh, as elisor, and charged him to bring Ruef into court. The coroner also failed to find Ruef, and Dunne then appointed Sheriff William J. Biggy as elisor and instructed him to arrest the fugitive. Biggy located Ruef within two hours at a roadhouse on the outskirts of San Francisco and arrested him. But Biggy didn't know where to place Ruef, for both the police and sheriff's office had were under suspicion of graft, so he placed Ruef under arrest in a room in the temporary \"little\" Saint Francis Hotel built in the ruins of Union Square and later in a house at 2849 Fillmore Street, This arrangement lasted more than a year.\n\nAs the investigation proceeded, other indictments were forthcoming. Supervisor Fred Nicholas was charged with accepting a bribe for $26,100 for furniture purchased for the city. Witnesses were indicted for perjury. Then, on March 7, 1907, while Ruef was still in hiding, Detective Burns set up a sting and witnessed Supervisor Thomas Lonergan accept a bribe from Golden M. Roy, owner of a well-known cafe with interests in several other businesses, including a skating rink. The city was considering an ordinance regulating skating rinks and Roy purportedly wanted Lonergan's help defeating the measure. Burns repeated the deception with two more supervisors, Edward Walsh and Dr. Charles Boxton. Gallagher suspected a trap and contacted Ruef, and they both encouraged Lonergan to return the bribe, but instead Lonergan accepted another $500. Burns and two other witnesses were concealed in an adjacent room on each occasion.\n\nBurns summoned Heney and Langdon, who after five hours coerced Lonergan and Walsh to confess about the graft operations at City Hall, exposing payoffs from Home Telephone (10 supervisors $3,500 each and seven supervisors $6,000 each (or about $ and $ in 2018); Bay Cities Water; Pacific Gas & Electric ($750 each); Pacific States Telephone Co. (10 supervisors $5,000 ($ today))); United Railroads ($40,000 to each supervisor and $400,000 to Ruef); the Parkside Realty companies; and boxing interests ($750 to each supervisor, Ruef and Schmitz $10,000 each). But neither of the two men implicated Gallagher or Ruef, and the prosecution badly wanted information that would allow them to bring more charges against the two masterminds and the corporate executives who had supplied the money. Gallagher was induced to meet with Spreckels during which a deal was worked our for Gallegher's testimony implicating Ruef and Schmitz, in exchange for immunity for himself and all of the Supervisors. Gallagher then met with all of the supervisors in a final secret caucus and offered them the immunity deal, which 16 of them accepted.\n\nOn March 19, Lonergan testified in front of the grand jury to having received $169,350 from Ruef that was transferred to the Supervisors. He and the now-immunized Supervisors detailed the source of the more than $200,000 received by the board members, naming the more than 20 board members of the several corporations who had contributed bribery funds, who were then in turn compelled to testify. Calhoun of United Railroads was one of the few holdouts: he refused to testify and exercised his right against self-incrimination.\n\nOn March 14, Tirey L. Ford told \"The San Francisco Call\" that the grand jury's graft investigation wasn't legal and he refused to Testify.\n\nOn March, 20, Ruef was charged with 65 more counts of graft. The grand jury also charged Theodore V. Halsey, the former confidential political for Pacific States Telephone and Telegraph Company, with 14 counts of graft for the bribes paid to Supervisors to deny a competitive bid for telephone service in San Francisco. The judge set bail at $10,000 per count, or $650,000 for Ruef and $100,000 for Halsey.\n\nOn March 23, the grand jury revealed an indictment against A.K. Detwiller, a capitalist from Toledo, Ohio and investor in the Home Telephone Company, and nine counts against Louis Glass, formerly a vice-president of Pacific States Telephone and Telegraph Co., for bribing supervisors. The grand jury learned that 9 of the 16 supervisors paid by PT&T through Ruef and Gallagher to oppose the Home Telephone Company's bid for a franchise had also accepted payments from the Home Telephone Company to support its bid.\n\nHeney and Spreckels meanwhile met with officers of the major companies implicated in the bribery scheme and encouraged them to come forward and implicate Ruef and Schmitz. But the executives pretended that any rumors about bribery were baseless and denied any knowledge of the payoffs. The prosecution's only hope to convict the executives of bribery was to prove a conspiracy, that they gave money to Ruef, a non-public official, with the intent that he pass it on to the Supervisors, who were. The Supervisors' testimony, while important, was only circumstantial. They needed Ruef's testimony to implicate the other men.\n\nHeney tried to persuade Ruef to offer evidence implicating Calhoun, Ford, and of United Railroads, but Ruef demanded complete immunity for himself and Schmitz in exchange for a confession, which Heney refused. California Governor James Gillett considered removing Schmitz from office but found that the City Charter didn't contain a provision allowing removal of a sitting mayor.\n\nDuring jury selection for the second trial, Heney found that one of the individuals impaneled, Morris Haas, had been convicted for embezzlement, although he was later pardoned. Detectives learned that Haas had boasted to his mistress that he would sell his vote for Ruef's acquittal. Believing Ruef was trying to plant the man on the jury, Heney publicly exposed Haas's forgery conviction while Haas was seated in the jury box and declared he was ineligible to serve.\n\nThe jury could not reach a verdict and A.E.S. Blake was later convicted and sentenced for offering a bribe to juror J.M. Kelly.\n\nThe prosecution reached an agreement with Ruef requiring Ruef to confess and in return he would receive immunity from most of the charges against him. On May 15, 1907, Ruef changed his plea to guilty and the next day in testimony before the grand jury he incriminated Schmitz.\n\nOn top of Ruef's confession, his trial continued for another 18 months, until December 10, 1908, on the remaining counts that he had not confessed to. The jury found him guilty and sentenced him to the maximum sentence for bribery, 14 years in San Quentin State Prison.\" He spent the next year at the county jail awaiting his appeal. In December 1909, he was released on bond of $600,000.\n\nThe case against Tirey Ford went ahead and he was indicted in May 1907, charged with bribing Supervisor Thomas F. Lonergan. The \"San Francisco Bulletin\" described Ford as \"a man whose error was caused by a mistaken loyalty to a corrupt corporation and in whose fall many will sorrow and none will rejoice.\" Ruef admitted that he had received a $200,000 \"attorney's fee\" from Ford that he had used to make payments to the Supervisors. But Ruef would not admit that his dealings with Ford were anything other legal fees to Ruef to compensate him for his legal services to United Railroad. He said the same was true of his dealings with Calhoun, that they entirely professional. All three men were experienced lawyers, and if they engaged in a conspiracy, it may have been entirely implicit. Despite encouragement from Burns and Heney, Ruef would not testify that the men intended to bribe the Supervisors.\n\nCalhoun spared no expense in defending himself and Ford. He hired an array of detectives to help with the investigation and a battery of attorneys to defend him. The attorneys included Earl Rogers of Los Angeles, and Alexander King, Calhoun's partner in New York, who gained admittance to California Bar just for Ford's case. In presenting Calhoun and Tirey's defense, Rogers argued that the prosecution had failed to make a case against the defendants, and didn't call a single witness or introduce any evidence.\n\nFord's first trial began on September 23, 1907. The prosecution secured testimony from Frank Leach, Superintendent of the Mint, who produced records that showed on May 22, 1906, Calhoun sent $200,000 from the east by telegraph that was deposited to the Mint. The records also showed that Ford drew $50,000 in small bills against the deposit on May 25, $50,000 on July 31, and the remainder on August 31. The dates corresponded approximately to two dates in early August and at the end of August that the Supervisors testified to having received payments from Gallagher.\n\nThe sensational case was submitted to the jury. When the jury failed to reach a verdict, a mistrial was declared, and a second jury was convened. Ford was charged with bribing Supervisor Jennings Phillips and a second trial began on November 26, 1907 which also failed to reach a verdict, and a third trial began on April 4, 1908. He was charged with bribing Supervisor Daniel G. Coleman to help United Railroads secure a franchise to erect an overhead trolley system. On May 3, 1908, the jury found him not guilty.\n\nOn June 20, 1909, the Calhoun jury was deadlocked, with the final jury vote at ten for acquittal and two for conviction. He was not retried.\n\nOn May 20, 1907, Mayor Schmitz was charged on the same indictment as Ruef for extorting money from the Tenderloin district French Restaurants.\n\nSchmitz was convicted and forced out of office on June 13, 1907. But Schmitz's conviction was voided when a higher court ruled that there was a flaw in the indictment that failed to use Schmitz official title as mayor of San Francisco.\n\nOn January 10, 1908, the California Appellate Court reversed Schmitz's conviction and nullified the indictments still pending against Ruef.\n\nOn April 3, 1908, the prosecution began interviewing prospective jurors and had nearly completed their selection of 12 men when Ruef began begging Heney through others to consider a deal that would allow Ruef full immunity in exchange for his testimony. Heney refused to consider full immunity, insisting that Ruef take his chances on the indictment for graft. Ruef finally accepted these terms and on May 17, 1908, told the court he was ready to change his plea to guilty and make a full confession. The prosecution had scant evidence against Schmitz and without Ruef's testimony had little chance of obtaining a conviction against him.\n\nIt took more than 70 days to examining prospective jurors and find 12 qualified jurors. On November 7, 1908, a jury was impaneled and sworn in for Ruef's third trial.\n\nOn April 29, 1908, a powerful explosion wrecked a portion of the Gallaghers' home in Alameda, including the room upstairs in which Gallagher and his wife were located, but both escaped unhurt. Their two daughters, a son, along with guests Mr. and Mrs. Schenck, and a gentlemen calling on the ladies, were also in the home. Because their dinner was late, they were kept in a portion of the house that was not seriously damaged, and they also escaped injury.\n\nSome of the newspaper editors supporting Ghallager's prosecution insinuated that Gallagher had arranged to blow up his own house to gain public sympathy. However John and Peter Claudianes were arrested and confessed to placing the dynamite bomb under Gallagher's home. Peter said he had been paid to kill Gallagher by Felix Paudivaris, a United Railroads employee and a political friend of Ruef's. Paudivaris disappeared shortly after the explosion but Claudianes and his brother were convicted and sentenced to life in prison.\n\nMorris Haas, the ex-convict that Heney had exposed during jury selection, deeply resented Heney's action and brooded over it for many weeks. Haas attended the trial and during its eleventh week, a temporary recess was called in the late afternoon of November 13, 1908. While Heney was talking with another attorney, Haas walked up to Heney and shot him at point-blank range in the head. The wound, a half-inch in front of his right ear and just below the temple, was initially pronounced fatal. Heney was hospitalized, and on the operating table said, \"I will live to prosecute Haas and Ruef.\"\n\nThat night Haas was placed in a prison cell with a policeman to guard him, but despite these precautions was found dead with a bullet hole in the middle of his forehead the following morning, a derringer beside him. The 1910 Oliver Grand Jury reported that two detectives had searched Haas after he shot Heney. It couldn't be determined whether Haas committed suicide, and if so, how he obtained the pistol, or whether he was murdered to prevent his testimony. Some believed that the same individuals who paid Claudianes to bomb the Gallagher residence was responsible for Haas's death. Others thought that Ruef, who they believed had hired Haas to murder Heney, had made sure Haas was silenced.\n\nHeney did not die from his gunshot wound, as he had been expected to, and the trial resumed on November 18 after Judge William P. Lawlor dismissed several defense motions. The prosecutor's role was assumed by Hiram Johnson, a bright young assistant to Heney.\n\nDetective Burns had given Johnson the names of four jurors who, Burns said, had been bribed, and in his summation Johnson called each of them by name, pointed a forefinger at him, and shouted: \"You – you dare not acquit this man!\" Nevertheless, when the jury retired for its deliberations everyone expected that it would let Ruef go, or would disagree, as had happened in almost every other case growing out of the graft prosecution.\n\nWhile the jury was out Heney telephoned Older to say that he was much recovered, and proposed to come down and pay his respects to the judge. Older, with his usual flair for the dramatic, told Heney not to come until the editor gave the signal. While most of the community was by now against the prosecution, there was a minority on the side of honesty, which had organized a League of Justice pledged to help at a moment's notice. Older now hastily sent word to dozens of these men, who came and crowded into the courtroom, which was directly under the chamber in which the jury was deliberating.\n\nEvelyn Wells, in her biography of Older, tells what happened when Heney entered the courtroom on Older's arm:\n\nThe jury's found Ruef guilty and he was sentenced to 14 years in prison. In November 1910, his conviction and sentence were finally upheld, and on March 1, 1911, he entered prison.\n\nOn June 13, 1907, Mayor E.E. Schmitz was found guilty of extortion and the office of mayor was declared vacant. He was sent to jail to await sentence. Shortly thereafter he was sentenced to five years at San Quentin State Prison, the maximum sentence the law allowed. He immediately appealed. While awaiting the outcome of the appeal, Schmitz was kept in a cell in San Francisco County Jail. Dr. Edward R. Taylor, Dean of Hastings College of the Law, agreed to step in as interim mayor and was given power to appoint new supervisors to replace those who had resigned.\n\nOn January 9, 1908, the District Court of Appeals nullified his conviction. Two months later, the California Supreme Court upheld the Court of Appeal's ruling, and Schmitz was released on bail, pending resolution of the outstanding bribery indictments.\n\nHe was brought to trial once more in 1912, on charges of bribery. Ruef was brought from San Quentin to testify, but refused to give evidence. The other key witness, Chief Supervisor Gallagher, had disappeared without leave to Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, and did not return. Schmitz was acquitted.\n\nSchmitz ran for mayor again in 1915 and 1919, but was soundly defeated due to his past reputation. Elected to the Board of Supervisors in 1921, he remained until 1925. He was married and had two daughters.\n\nHeney and others publicly criticized Chief of Police William J. Biggy for the negligence and lax security that allowed Haas to kill himself with a hidden derringer, and Biggy was deeply hurt by Heney's allegations. Biggy had a falling out with those supporting the graft prosecution and was placed under surveillance by detectives employed by Burns.\n\nBiggy discussed his resignation with police commissioner Hugo Keil on December 1, 1908. While returning from that meeting during a nighttime crossing of San Francisco Bay from Belvedere to San Francisco aboard a police launch, Biggy went missing, a possible suicide. His body was found two weeks later floating in the bay. Biggy was a devout Catholic and the public thought it unlikely that he would commit suicide, but the Coroner's Jury returned a verdict of accidental death.\n\nOf all the sentences meted out to leading figures in the whole course of the prosecution, Ruef was the only individual who served prison time. When another municipal election approached in 1909, District Attorney Langdon refused to run again. Langdon was tired and discouraged at the lack of success in prosecuting the officials who had paid the bribes. Supervisor James Ghallager, a key witness, had fled the country for Vancouver, British Columbia.\n\nFickert promptly and contemptuously refused to proceed with any of the pending cases against the businessmen who had paid the bribes. He pretended he didn't know where Supervisor Gallagher had fled, although his location in Vancouver was common knowledge. (Fickert later gained a notorious reputation when he mishandled the 1916 Preparedness Day Bombing case and was defeated for District Attorney in 1919.)\n\nWilliam P. Lawlor, the honest judge who had presided in several of the cases, excoriated Fickert and ordered the others to trial, but he was overruled by the court of appeals, which decided that all of the large number of remaining indictments should be quashed. The graft prosecution was over, having ended in almost total failure, with only Ruef in prison.\"\n\nOn August 17, 1911, Judge Lawlor dismissed all remaining indictments in the trolley bribery cases against Tirey L. Ford and other officials of the United Railroads.\n\nOn November 1, 1912, Louis Glass, formerly the Vice President at Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company, was in court for a hearing. He had been accused of offering a bribe to a Supervisor to support the company's bid for the telephone franchise. Glass was the last to be prosecuted for graft, and he insisted that his rights to a speedy trial had been violated. Ludge Lawlor reluctantly agreed and dismissed the charges pending against Glass.\n\nIn 1912, Older began to have second thoughts about Ruef's conviction. He asked Ruef to write his memoirs, which were published in the \"San Francisco Bulletin\" in installments almost daily over months, finishing at the point where the graft investigation began. On August 23, 1915, having served a little more than four and a half of his fourteen-year sentence, he was released. He was the only person in the entire investigation who went to prison. He was not allowed to return to his legal practice. \"Before he went to prison he had been worth over a million dollars, when he died he was bankrupt.\"\n"}
{"id": "15821259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15821259", "title": "Sekolah Berasrama Penuh", "text": "Sekolah Berasrama Penuh\n\nSekolah Berasrama Penuh (SBP) or Fully Residential School is a school system established in Malaysia to nurture outstanding students to excel in academics and extracurricular activities. Since 2008, SBPs are directly administered by Fully Residential and Excellent Schools Management Division, Ministry of Education.\n\nSBP began in 1890, with Richard Olaf Winstedt as deputy (he later became Director of Education in Malaya). \"The Selangor Raja School\" was established as a starting step to produce the Malay elite from among the palaces and princes, states, through the English medium education. In 1894, the school was closed for renovation and was reborn in a new form in 1905 at Kuala Kangsar, which to this day known as the Malay College Kuala Kangsar (MCKK).\n\nSultan Idris Shah I of Perak, in the Conference of Rulers (Durbar) in 1903 which criticised the policy of British administration, especially in the education of the Malays, saying it was merely \"to produce better Malay farmers or fishermen only\". Sultan of Perak himself has offered on-site locations for MCKK, with the purpose \"for the education of the Malays of good family and for the training of Malay boys for admission to certain branches of the government service\". In 1947, \"Malay Girl College\" was established in Kuala Lumpur, later moved to Seremban, Negeri Sembilan, known as Tunku Kurshiah College until now, named after the first Raja Permaisuri Agong.\n\nIn September 1955, an Education Committee was established which led to the conception of the Razak Report in 1956. Razak Report approved and produced the Education Ordinance 1957. The Razak Report recommended the formation of six units of Sekolah Berasrama Penuh (SBP), namely Sekolah Dato 'Abdul Razak (1956), Sekolah Tun Fatimah (1956), Sekolah Tuanku Abdul Rahman (1957), Sekolah Menengah Sultan Abdul Halim (1963), Sekolah Sultan Alam Shah (1963) and Sekolah Seri Puteri (1968).\n\nIn 1955, Kolej Islam Malaya was embodied in the former palace on the site, which was donated by Sultan Hisamuddin in Klang, Selangor. In 1966, the college was moved to Jalan Universiti in Petaling Jaya, Selangor. In 1967, after the customisation work was completed, the college relocated to Klang and was named Kolej Islam Klang. In 1972, the college administration was taken over entirely by the Ministry of Education and the name was changed to Kolej Islam Sultan Alam Shah.\n\nBetween 1973 to 1975, 10 SBPs were built. The projects that needed to be implemented in the Second Malaysia Plan were stated as \"important projects in the plan is the establishment of ten pilot residential science secondary schools added to provide educational opportunities for pupils from rural areas to pursue their education in science subjects.\"\n\nTo date, Malaysia has 69 SBPs: 11 premier schools, 43 science secondary schools, 12 integrated SBPs and 3 federal Islamic secondary school. 6 of SBPs are all-boys and another 6 are all-girls. The latest SBP opened in Malaysia was Gua Musang Science Secondary School. The 69th SBP in Malaysia was opened in 2014. A number of SBPs are currently either under planning or ongoing construction under Eleventh Malaysia Plan.\n\nThe history of SBP is a rich one, and certain fields are considered the hallmark of SBP schools. These include:\n\nAs in 2018, Malaysia has 69 fully residential schools which are later divided into five zones, namely Northern Zone, Central Zone, Southern Zone, Eastern Zone and SQL Zone.\n\n"}
{"id": "28228833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28228833", "title": "Shareholder primacy", "text": "Shareholder primacy\n\nShareholder primacy is a theory in corporate governance holding that shareholder interests should be assigned first priority relative to all other corporate stakeholders. A shareholder primacy approach often gives shareholders power to intercede directly and frequently in corporate decision-making, through such means as unilateral shareholder power to amend corporate charters, shareholder referenda on business decisions and regular corporate board election contests. The shareholder primacy norm was first used by courts to resolve disputes among majority and minority shareholders, and, over time, this use of the shareholder primacy norm evolved into the modern doctrine of minority shareholder oppression. James Kee writes, \"If private property were truly respected, shareholder interest would be the primary, or even better, the sole purpose, of the corporation.\"\n\nThe doctrine of shareholder primacy is criticized for being at odds with corporate social responsibility and other legal obligations because it focuses solely on maximizing shareholder profits .\n"}
{"id": "4295119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4295119", "title": "Sportsman's Association", "text": "Sportsman's Association\n\nThe Sportsman's Association is a pro-shooting organisation in the UK.\n\nThe Sportsman's Association was formed in 1996 to campaign for the right of sports shooters to own handguns. This was limited following the Dunblane Massacre when Thomas Hamilton killed 16 children and their teacher using legally-held pistols.\n\nVarying membership figures have been given over the past two years, but are now thought to be around 2700(May 2008 AGM) with 4000 being full members, 40 trade members & 2000other members.\n\nThe association tried to organise a boycott of the 2012 Olympics, urging people not to volunteer as staff and judges. They asserted that chosen venue, Woolwich Arsenal, was less suitable than the ranges at Bisley, Surrey. However the Olympic governing body wanted the shooting to take place in London, we were out voted\n\nThe Sportsman's Association exists to fight for the restoration of target pistol shooting as a legitimate sport and for fair and effective firearms legislation. It believes that the way to help to keep the sport alive is by supporting the government's decision to issue section 5 authority for selected competitors, to train in the UK on the run up to the 2012 Olympics.\n\nLobbying MPs, The Home Office & Parliament on behalf of our members.<br>\nFree advice on licensing matters to members of SAGBNI. <br>\nFree advice on game & deer stalking. <br>\nRunning pistol shooting holidays in the South of France<br>\nPostal competitions for both members & non-members.<br>\nPublic liability insurance for members of SAGBNI. <br>\nAdvice on firearms & ammunition. <br>\nTrade members offering discount to SAGBNI members.\n"}
{"id": "37933901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37933901", "title": "Structural vulnerability", "text": "Structural vulnerability\n\nStructural vulnerability is a distinct likelihood of encountering major difficulties within the family atmosphere or the threat to the family itself because of such deficient capital resources as money, education, access to health care, or important/vital information. \n\nStructural vulnerability is a threat to any low-income individual that must caretake for a family. Social workers described these individuals as people that \"In the largest richest country in the world, they work full time year around and some work multiple jobs as well, but they still do not earn enough to support their families.\" Structural vulnerability is cited as a reason that migrant workers in the United States are more vulnerable to violence and public health risks such as HIV.\n\nWhen Structural Vulnerability strikes the household poor children are more likely than their affluent peers to encounter a lengthy list of health problems. Potential health Issues include inadequate prenatal care, Low birth weight, iron deficiency, and a high risk exposure to toxic metals like lead. \n\nHunger and Malnutrition can lead to more health issues concerning low income families. Issues could include elevated heart rates, diabetes, hypertension, cancer, asthma, and dental problems. Low income families are less likely to have health insurance, with little or no health insurance lower income families are subject to prolong illnesses.\n"}
{"id": "44247271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44247271", "title": "Sweden Sans", "text": "Sweden Sans\n\nSweden Sans is a sans-serif typeface developed by the Söderhavet design agency for exclusive use by Swedish government ministries, agencies and corporations.\n\nMore information and download links are at the official website.\n"}
{"id": "31605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31605", "title": "Two-party system", "text": "Two-party system\n\nA two-party system is a party system where two major political parties dominate the government. One of the two parties typically holds a majority in the legislature and is usually referred to as the \"majority\" or \"governing party\" while the other is the \"minority\" or \"opposition party\". Around the world, the term has different senses. For example, in the United States, Jamaica, and Malta, the sense of \"two party system\" describes an arrangement in which all or nearly all elected officials belong to one of the only two major parties, and third parties rarely win any seats in the legislature. In such arrangements, two-party systems are thought to result from various factors like winner takes all election rules. In such systems, while chances for third party candidates winning election to major national office are remote, it is possible for groups within the larger parties, or in opposition to one or both of them, to exert influence on the two major parties. In contrast, in the United Kingdom and Australia and in other parliamentary systems and elsewhere, the term \"two-party system\" is sometimes used to indicate an arrangement in which two major parties dominate elections but in which there are viable third parties which do win seats in the legislature, and in which the two major parties exert proportionately greater influence than their percentage of votes would suggest.\n\nExplanations for why a country with free elections may evolve into a two-party system have been debated. A leading theory, referred to as Duverger's law, states that two parties are a natural result of a winner-take-all voting system.\n\nIn countries such as Britain, two major parties emerge which have strong influence and tend to elect most of the candidates, but a multitude of lesser parties exist with varying degrees of influence, and sometimes these lesser parties are able to elect officials who participate in the legislature. In political systems based on the Westminster system, which is a particular style of parliamentary democracy based on the British model and found in many commonwealth countries, a majority party will form the government and the minority party will form the opposition, and coalitions of lesser parties are possible; in the rare circumstance in which neither party is the majority, a hung parliament arises. Sometimes these systems are described as \"two-party systems\" but they are usually referred to as \"multi-party\" systems. There is not always a sharp boundary between a two-party system and a multi-party system.\n\nGenerally, a two-party system becomes a dichotomous division of the political spectrum with an ostensibly right-wing and left-wing party: the Nationalist Party vs. the Labour Party in Malta, Liberal/National Coalition vs. Labor in Australia, Republicans vs. Democrats in the United States and the Conservative Party vs. the Labour Party in the United Kingdom.\n\nOther parties in these countries may have seen candidates elected to local or subnational office, however. Historian John Hicks claims that the United States has never possessed for any considerable period of time the two party system in its pure and undefiled form.\n\nIn some governments, certain chambers may resemble a two-party system and others a multi-party system. For example, the politics of Australia are largely two-party (the Liberal/National Coalition is often considered a single party at a national level due to their long-standing alliance in forming government and additionally rarely compete for the same seat) for the Australian House of Representatives, which is elected by instant-runoff voting, known within Australia as preferential voting. However, third parties are more common in the Australian Senate, which uses a proportional voting system more amenable to minor parties.\n\nIn the politics of Canada, while having a multiparty system federally and in the largest provinces of Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba as well as the smaller Newfoundland And Labrador, Nova Scotia and Yukon Territory many of the provinces have effectively become two-party systems in which only two parties regularly get members elected. Examples include British Columbia (where the battles are between the New Democratic Party and the BC Liberals), Alberta (between the Alberta New Democratic Party and United Conservative Party), Saskatchewan (between the Saskatchewan Party and New Democratic Party), New Brunswick (between the Liberals and the Progressive Conservatives) and Prince Edward Island (between Liberals and Progressive Conservatives).\n\nThe English speaking countries of the Caribbean while inheriting their basic political system from Great Britain have become two party systems. The politics of Jamaica are between the People's National Party and the Jamaica Labour Party. The politics of Guyana are between the People's Progressive Party and APNU which is actually a coalition of smaller parties. The politics of Trinidad and Tobago are between the People's National Movement and the People's Partnership which is also a coalition. The Politics of Belize are between the United Democratic Party and the People's United Party. The Politics of the Bahamas are between the Progressive Liberal Party and the Free National Movement. The politics of Barbados are between the Democratic Labour Party and the Barbados Labour Party.\n\nThe politics of Zimbabwe are effectively a two party system between the Robert Mugabe founded Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front and the opposition coalition Movement for Democratic Change.\n\nIndia has a multi-party system but also shows characteristics of a two party system with the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) and National Democratic Alliance (NDA) as the two main players. It is to be noted that both UPA and NDA are not two political parties but alliances of several smaller parties. Other smaller parties not aligned with either NDA or UPA exist, and overall command about 20% of the 2009 seats in the Lok Sabha and had further increased to 28% in 2014 general elections\nMost Latin American countries also have presidential systems very similar to the US often with winner takes all systems. Due to the common accumulation of power in the Presidential office both the official party and the main opposition became important political protagonists causing historically two-party systems. Some of the first manifestations of this particularity was with the liberals and conservatives that often fought for power in all Latin America causing the first two-party systems in most Latin American countries which often lead to civil wars in places like Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Venezuela, the Central American Republic and Peru, with fights focusing specially on opposing/defending the privileges of the Catholic Church and the creole aristocracy. Other examples of primitive two-party systems included the Pelucones vs Pipiolos in Chile, Federalists vs Unitarians in Argentina, Colorados vs Liberals in Paraguay and Colorados vs Nationals in Uruguay.\n\nHowever, as in other regions, the original rivalry between liberals and conservatives was overtaken by a rivalry between center-left (often social-democratic) parties vs center-right liberal conservative parties, focusing more in economic differences than in cultural and religious differences as it was common during the liberal vs conservative period. Examples of this include National Liberation Party vs Social Christian Unity Party in Costa Rica, the peronista Justicialist Party vs Radical Civic Union in Argentina, Democratic Action vs COPEI in Venezuela, the Colombian Liberal Party (despite the name, a democratic socialist party) vs the Colombian Conservative Party in Colombia, Democratic Revolutionary Party vs Panameñista Party in Panama and Liberal Party vs National Party in Honduras. After the democratization of Central America following the end of the Central American crisis in the 90s former far-left guerrillas and former right-wing authoritarian parties, now in peace, make some similar two-party systems in countries like Nicaragua between the Sandinista National Liberation Front and the Liberals and in El Salvador between the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front and the Nationalist Republican Alliance.\n\nThe traditional two-party dynamic started to broke after a while, especially in early 2000s; alternative parties won elections breaking the traditional two-party systems including Rafael Caldera's (National Convergence) victory in Venezuela in 1993, Álvaro Uribe (Colombia First) victory in 2002, Tabaré Vázquez (Broad Front) victory in Uruguay in 2004, Ricardo Martinelli (Democratic Change) victory in 2009 in Panama, Luis Guillermo Solís (Citizens' Action Party ) victory in 2014 in Costa Rica and Mauricio Macri (Republican Proposal) victory in 2015 in Argentina, all of them from non-traditional third parties in their respective countries. In some countries like Chile and Venezuela the political system is now split in two large multy-party alliances or blocs, one on the left and one on the right of the spectrum (Concertación/New Majority vs Alliance in Chile, Democratic Unity Roundtable vs Great Patriotic Pole in Venezuela).\n\nMalta is somewhat unusual in that while the electoral system is single transferable vote (STV), traditionally associated with proportional representation, minor parties have not earned much success. Politics is dominated between the centre-left Labour Party and the centre-right Nationalist Party, with no third parties winning seats in Parliament between 1962 and 2017.\n\nThere is general agreement that the United States has a two-party system; historically, there have been few instances in which third party candidates won an election. In the First Party System, only Alexander Hamilton's Federalist Party and Thomas Jefferson's Democratic-Republican Party were significant political parties. Toward the end of the First Party System, the Republicans dominated a one-party system (primarily under the Presidency of James Monroe). Under the Second Party System, the Democratic-Republican Party split during the election of 1824 into Adams' Men and Jackson's Men. In 1828, the modern Democratic Party formed in support of Andrew Jackson. The National Republicans were formed in support of John Quincy Adams. After the National Republicans collapsed, the Whig Party and the Free Soil Party quickly formed and collapsed. In 1854, the modern Republican Party formed from a loose coalition of former Whigs, Free Soilers and other anti-slavery activists. Abraham Lincoln became the first Republican president in 1860.\n\nDuring the Third Party System, the Republican Party was the dominant political faction, but the Democrats held a strong, loyal coalition in the Solid South. During the Fourth Party System, the Republicans remained the dominant Presidential party, although Democrats Grover Cleveland and Woodrow Wilson were both elected to two terms. In 1932, at the onset of the Fifth Party System, Democrats took firm control of national politics with the landslide victories of Franklin D. Roosevelt in four consecutive elections. Other than the two terms of Republican Dwight Eisenhower from 1953 to 1961, Democrats retained firm control of the Presidency until the mid-1960s. Since the mid-1960s, despite a number of landslides (such as Richard Nixon carrying 49 states and 61% of the popular vote over George McGovern in 1972; Ronald Reagan carrying 49 states and 58% of the popular vote over Walter Mondale in 1984), Presidential elections have been competitive between the predominant Republican and Democratic parties and no one party has been able to hold the Presidency for more than three consecutive terms, except for the elections from 1932 through 1948 when FDR won 4 elections and Truman one, both as Democrats. In the election of 2012, only 4% separated the popular vote between Barack Obama (51%) and Mitt Romney (47%), although Obama won the electoral vote by a landslide (332–206).\n\nThroughout every American party system, no third party has won a Presidential election or majorities in either house of Congress. Despite that, third parties and third party candidates have gained traction and support. In the election of 1912, Theodore Roosevelt won 27% of the popular vote and 88 electoral votes running as a Progressive. In the 1992 Presidential election, Ross Perot won 19% of the popular vote but no electoral votes running as an Independent.\n\nSouth Korea has a multi-party system that has sometimes been described as having characteristics of a two-party system.\n\nFurthermore, the Lebanese Parliament is mainly made up of two bipartisan alliances. Although both alliances are made up of several political parties on both ends of the political spectrum the two way political situation has mainly arisen due to strong ideological differences in the electorate. Once again this can mainly be attributed to the winner takes all thesis. \n\nHistorically, Brazil had a two-party system for most of its military dictatorship (1964–1985): the military junta banned all existing parties when it took power and created a pro-government party, the National Renewal Alliance and an official opposition party, the Brazilian Democratic Movement. The two parties were dissolved in 1979, when the regime allowed other parties to form.\n\nA report in \"The Christian Science Monitor\" in 2008 suggested that Spain was moving towards a \"greater two-party system\" while acknowledging that Spain has \"many small parties\". However a 2015 article published by \"WashingtonPost.com\" written by academic Fernando Casal Bértoa noted the decline in support for the two main parties, the People's Party (PP) and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) in recent years, with these two parties winning only 52 percent of the votes in that year's regional and local elections. He explained this as being due to the Spanish economic crisis, a series of political corruption scandals and broken campaign promises. He argued that the emergence of the new Citizens and Podemos parties would mean the political system would evolve into a two-bloc system, with an alliance of the PP and Citizens on the right facing a leftist coalition of PSOE, Podemos and the United Left.\n\nTwo-party systems can be contrasted with:\n\nThere are several reasons why, in some systems, two major parties dominate the political landscape. There has been speculation that a two-party system arose in the United States from early political battling between the federalists and anti-federalists in the first few decades after the ratification of the Constitution, according to several views. In addition, there has been more speculation that the winner-takes-all electoral system as well as particular state and federal laws regarding voting procedures helped to cause a two-party system.\n\nPolitical scientists such as Maurice Duverger and William H. Riker claim that there are strong correlations between voting rules and type of party system. Jeffrey D. Sachs agreed that there was a link between voting arrangements and the effective number of parties. Sachs explained how the first-past-the-post voting arrangement tended to promote a two-party system:\n\nConsider a system in which voters can vote for any candidate from any one of many parties. Suppose further that if a party gets 15% of votes, then that party will win 15% of the seats in the legislature. This is termed \"proportional representation\" or more accurately as \"party-proportional representation\". Political scientists speculate that proportional representation leads logically to multi-party systems, since it allows new parties to build a niche in the legislature:\n\nIn contrast, a voting system that allows only a single winner for each possible legislative seat is sometimes termed a plurality voting system or single-winner voting system and is usually described under the heading of a \"winner-takes-all\" arrangement. Each voter can cast a single vote for any candidate within any given legislative district, but the candidate with the most votes wins the seat, although variants, such as requiring a majority, are sometimes used. What happens is that in a general election, a party that consistently comes in third in every district is unlikely to win any legislative seats even if there is a significant proportion of the electorate favoring its positions. This arrangement strongly favors large and well–organized political parties that are able to appeal to voters in many districts and hence win many seats, and discourages smaller or regional parties. Politically oriented people consider their only realistic way to capture political power is to run under the auspices of the two dominant parties.\n\nIn the U.S., forty-eight states have a standard \"winner-takes-all\" electoral system for amassing presidential votes in the Electoral College system. The \"winner-takes-all\" principle applies in presidential elections, since if a presidential candidate gets the most votes in any particular state, \"all\" of the electoral votes from that state are awarded. In all but two states, Maine and Nebraska, the presidential candidate winning a plurality of votes wins all of the electoral votes, a practice called the unit rule.\n\nDuverger concluded that \"plurality election single-ballot procedures are likely to produce two-party systems, whereas proportional representation and runoff designs encourage multipartyism.\" He suggested there were two reasons why \"winner-takes-all\" systems leads to a two-party system. First, the weaker parties are pressured to form an alliance, sometimes called a \"fusion\", to try to become big enough to challenge a large dominant party and, in so doing, gain political clout in the legislature. Second, voters learn, over time, not to vote for candidates outside of one of the two large parties since their votes for third party candidates are usually ineffectual. As a result, weaker parties are eliminated by voters over time. Duverger pointed to statistics and tactics to suggest that voters tended to gravitate towards one of the two main parties, a phenomenon which he called \"polarization\", and tend to shun third parties. For example, some analysts suggest that the Electoral College system in the United States, by favoring a system of winner-takes-all in presidential elections, is a structural choice favoring only two major parties.\n\nGary Cox suggested that America's two-party system was highly related with economic prosperity in the country:\n\nAn effort in 2012 by centrist groups to promote ballot access by Third Party candidates called Americans Elect spent $15 million to get ballot access but failed to elect any candidates. The lack of choice in a two-party model in politics has often been compared to the variety of choices in the marketplace.\n\nThird parties, meaning a party other than one of the two dominant parties, are possible in two-party systems, but they are often unlikely to exert much influence by gaining control of legislatures or by winning elections. While there are occasional opinions in the media expressed about the possibility of third parties emerging in the United States, for example, political insiders such as the 1980 presidential candidate John Anderson think the chances of one appearing in the early twenty-first century is remote. A report in \"The Guardian\" suggested that American politics has been \"stuck in a two-way fight between Republicans and Democrats\" since the Civil War, and that third-party runs had little meaningful success.\n\nThird parties in a two-party system can be:\n\nWhen third parties are built around an ideology which is at odds with the majority mindset, many members belong to such a party not for the purpose of expecting electoral success but rather for personal or psychological reasons. In the U.S., third parties include older ones such as the Libertarian Party and the Green Party and newer ones such as the Pirate Party. Many believe that third parties don't affect American politics by winning elections, but they can act as \"spoilers\" by taking votes from one of the two major parties. They act like barometers of change in the political mood since they push the major parties to consider their demands. An analysis in \"New York Magazine\" by Ryan Lizza in 2006 suggested that third parties arose from time to time in the nineteenth century around single-issue movements such as abolition, women's suffrage, and the direct election of senators, but were less prominent in the twentieth century.\n\nA so-called \"third party\" in the United Kingdom are the Liberal Democrats. In the 2010 election, the Liberal Democrats received 23% of the votes but only 9% of the seats in the House of Commons. While electoral results do not necessarily translate into legislative seats, the Liberal Democrats can exert influence if there is a situation such as a hung parliament. In this instance, neither of the two main parties (at present, the Conservative Party and the Labour Party) have sufficient authority to run the government. Accordingly, the Liberal Democrats can in theory exert tremendous influence in such a situation since they can ally with one of the two main parties to form a coalition. This happened in the Coalition government of 2010. Yet in that more than 13% of the seats in the British House of Commons are held in 2011 by representatives of political parties other than the two leading political parties of that nation, contemporary Britain is considered by some to be a multi-party system, and not a two-party system. The two party system in the United Kingdom allows for other parties to exist, although the main two parties tend to dominate politics; in this arrangement, other parties are not excluded and can win seats in Parliament. In contrast, the two party system in the United States has been described as a duopoly or an enforced two-party system, such that politics is almost entirely dominated by either the Republicans or Democrats, and third parties rarely win seats in Congress.\n\nSome historians have suggested that two-party systems promote centrism and encourage political parties to find common positions which appeal to wide swaths of the electorate. It can lead to political stability which leads, in turn, to economic growth. Historian Patrick Allitt of the Teaching Company suggested that it is difficult to overestimate the long term economic benefits of political stability. Sometimes two-party systems have been seen as preferable to multi-party systems because they are simpler to govern, with less fractiousness and greater harmony, since it discourages radical minor parties, while multi-party systems can sometimes lead to hung parliaments. Italy, with a multi-party system, has had years of divisive politics since 2000, although analyst Silvia Aloisi suggested in 2008 that the nation may be moving closer to a two-party arrangement. The two-party has been identified as simpler since there are fewer voting choices. One analyst suggested the two-party system, in contrast with proportional representation, prevented excessive government interference with economic policy.\n\nTwo-party systems have been criticized for downplaying alternative views, being less competitive, encouraging voter apathy since there is a perception of fewer choices, and putting a damper on debate within a nation. In a proportional representation system, lesser parties can moderate policy since they are not usually eliminated from government. One analyst suggested the two-party approach may not promote inter-party compromise but may encourage partisanship. In \"The Tyranny of the Two-party system\", Lisa Jane Disch criticizes two-party systems for failing to provide enough options since only two choices are permitted on the ballot. She wrote:\n\nThere have been arguments that the winner-take-all mechanism discourages independent or third-party candidates from running for office or promulgating their views. Ross Perot's former campaign manager wrote that the problem with having only two parties is that the nation loses \"the ability for things to bubble up from the body politic and give voice to things that aren't being voiced by the major parties.\" One analyst suggested that parliamentary systems, which typically are multi-party in nature, lead to a better \"centralization of policy expertise\" in government. Multi-party governments permit wider and more diverse viewpoints in government, and encourage dominant parties to make deals with weaker parties to form winning coalitions. Analyst Chris Weigant of \"the Huffington Post\" wrote that \"the parliamentary system is inherently much more open to minority parties getting much better representation than third parties do in the American system\". After an election in which the party changes, there can be a \"polar shift in policy-making\" when voters react to changes.\n\nPolitical analyst A. G. Roderick, writing in his book \"Two Tyrants\", argued that the two American parties, the Republicans and Democrats, are highly unpopular in 2015, and are not part of the political framework of state governments, and do not represent 47% of the electorate who identify themselves as \"independents\". He makes a case that the American president should be elected on a non-partisan basis, and asserts that both political parties are \"cut from the same cloth of corruption and corporate influence.\"\n\nThe two-party system, in the sense of the looser definition, where two parties dominate politics but in which third parties can elect members and gain some representation in the legislature, can be traced to the development of political parties in the United Kingdom. There was a division in English politics at the time of the Civil War and Glorious Revolution in the late 17th century. The Whigs supported Protestant constitutional monarchy against absolute rule and the Tories, originating in the Royalist (or \"Cavalier\") faction of the English Civil War, were conservative royalist supporters of a strong monarchy as a counterbalance to the republican tendencies of Parliament. In the following century, the Whig party's support base widened to include emerging industrial interests and wealthy merchants.\n\nThe basic matters of principle that defined the struggle between the two factions, were concerning the nature of constitutional monarchy, the desirability of a Catholic king, the extension of religious toleration to nonconformist Protestants, and other issues that had been put on the liberal agenda through the political concepts propounded by John Locke, Algernon Sidney and others.\n\nVigorous struggle between the two factions characterised the period from the Glorious Revolution to the 1715 Hanoverian succession, over the legacy of the overthrow of the Stuart dynasty and the nature of the new constitutional state. This proto two-party system fell into relative abeyance after the accession to the throne of George I and the consequent period of Whig supremacy under Robert Walpole, during which the Tories were systematically purged from high positions in government. However, although the Tories were dismissed from office for half a century, they still retained a measure of party cohesion under William Wyndham and acted as a united, though unavailing, opposition to Whig corruption and scandals. At times they cooperated with the \"Opposition Whigs\", Whigs who were in opposition to the Whig government; however, the ideological gap between the Tories and the Opposition Whigs prevented them from coalescing as a single party.\n\nThe old Whig leadership dissolved in the 1760s into a decade of factional chaos with distinct \"Grenvillite\", \"Bedfordite\", \"Rockinghamite\", and \"Chathamite\" factions successively in power, and all referring to themselves as \"Whigs\". Out of this chaos, the first distinctive parties emerged. The first such party was the Rockingham Whigs under the leadership of Charles Watson-Wentworth and the intellectual guidance of the political philosopher Edmund Burke. Burke laid out a philosophy that described the basic framework of the political party as \"a body of men united for promoting by their joint endeavours the national interest, upon some particular principle in which they are all agreed\". As opposed to the instability of the earlier factions, which were often tied to a particular leader and could disintegrate if removed from power, the two party system was centred on a set of core principles held by both sides and that allowed the party out of power to remain as the Loyal Opposition to the governing party.\nA genuine two-party system began to emerge, with the accession to power of William Pitt the Younger in 1783 leading the new Tories, against a reconstituted \"Whig\" party led by the radical politician Charles James Fox.\n\nThe two party system matured in the early 19th century era of political reform, when the franchise was widened and politics entered into the basic divide between conservatism and liberalism that has fundamentally endured up to the present. The modern Conservative Party was created out of the \"Pittite\" Tories by Robert Peel, who issued the Tamworth Manifesto in 1834 which set out the basic principles of Conservatism; - the necessity in specific cases of reform in order to survive, but an opposition to unnecessary change, that could lead to \"a perpetual vortex of agitation\". Meanwhile, the Whigs, along with free trade Tory followers of Robert Peel, and independent Radicals, formed the Liberal Party under Lord Palmerston in 1859, and transformed into a party of the growing urban middle-class, under the long leadership of William Ewart Gladstone. The two party system had come of age at the time of Gladstone and his Conservative rival Benjamin Disraeli after the 1867 Reform Act.\n\nAlthough the Founding Fathers of the United States did not originally intend for American politics to be partisan, early political controversies in the 1790s saw the emergence of a two-party political system, the Federalist Party and the Democratic-Republican Party, centred on the differing views on federal government powers of Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton and James Madison. However, a consensus reached on these issues ended party politics in 1816 for a decade, a period commonly known as the Era of Good Feelings.\n\nPartisan politics revived in 1829 with the split of the Democratic-Republican Party into the Jacksonian Democrats led by Andrew Jackson, and the Whig Party, led by Henry Clay. The former evolved into the modern Democratic Party and the latter was replaced with the Republican Party as one of the two main parties in the 1850s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42563745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42563745", "title": "War in Donbass", "text": "War in Donbass\n\nThe War in Donbass is an armed conflict in the Donbass region of Ukraine. From the beginning of March 2014, protests by pro-Russian and anti-government groups took place in the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts of Ukraine, commonly collectively called the \"Donbass\", in the aftermath of the 2014 Ukrainian revolution and the Euromaidan movement. These demonstrations, which followed the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation (February to March 2014), and which were part of a wider group of concurrent pro-Russian protests across southern and eastern Ukraine, escalated into an armed conflict between the separatist forces of the self-declared Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics (DPR and LPR respectively), and the Ukrainian government. In the Donetsk People's Republic, from May 2014 until a change of the top leadership in August 2014, some of the top leaders were Russian citizens. According to the Ukrainian government, at the height of the conflict in mid-2014, Russian paramilitaries were reported to make up between 15% to 80% of the combatants.\n\nBetween 22 and 25 August 2014, Russian artillery, personnel, and what Russia called a \"humanitarian convoy\" crossed the border into Ukrainian territory without the permission of the Ukrainian government. Crossings occurred both in areas under the control of pro-Russian forces and in areas that were not under their control, such as the south-eastern part of Donetsk Oblast, near Novoazovsk. These events followed the reported shelling of Ukrainian positions from the Russian side of the border over the course of the preceding month. Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Valentyn Nalyvaichenko characterised the events of 22 August as a \"direct invasion by Russia of Ukraine\", while other western and Ukrainian officials described the events as a \"stealth invasion\" of Ukraine by Russia. Russia's official position on the presence of Russian forces in Donbass has been vague: while official bodies have denied presence of \"regular armed forces\" in Ukraine, it has on numerous occasions confirmed presence of \"military specialists\", along with other euphemisms, usually accompanied by an argument that Russia \"was forced\" to deploy them to \"defend the Russian-speaking population\". \n\nAs a result of the August 2014 events, DPR and LPR insurgents regained much of the territory they had lost during the Ukrainian government's preceding military offensive. Ukraine, Russia, the DPR and the LPR signed an agreement to establish a ceasefire, called the Minsk Protocol, on 5 September 2014. Violations of the ceasefire on both sides became common. Amidst the solidification of the line between insurgent and government-controlled territory during the ceasefire, warlords took control of swaths of land on the insurgent side, leading to further destabilisation. The ceasefire completely collapsed in January 2015, with renewed heavy fighting across the conflict zone, including at Donetsk International Airport and at Debaltseve. Involved parties agreed to a new ceasefire, called Minsk II, on 12 February 2015. Immediately following the signing of the agreement, separatist forces launched an offensive on Debaltseve and forced Ukrainian forces to withdraw from it. In the months after the fall of Debaltseve, minor skirmishes continued along the line of contact, but no territorial changes occurred. This state of stalemate led to the war being labelled a \"frozen conflict\"; the area stayed a war zone, with dozens of soldiers and civilians killed each month. In 2017, on average one Ukrainian soldier died in combat every three days, with the number of Russian and seperatist troops remaining in the region estimated at 6,000 and 40,000 respectively. By the end of 2017, OSCE observatory mission had accounted for around 30,000 individuals in military-style dress crossing from Russia to Donbass just at two border checkpoints it was allowed to monitor. \n\nSince the start of the conflict there have been more than twenty ceasefires, each intended to remain in force indefinitely, but none of them stopped the violence.<ref name=\"tass.com/world/1027270\"></ref> The most successful attempt to halt the fighting was in 2016, when a ceasefire held for six consecutive weeks. The latest ceasefire came into force on 29 August 2018, and failed the same day.\n\nAttempts to seize the Donetsk Regional State Administration (RSA) building began since pro-Russian protests erupted in the eastern and southern regions of Ukraine, in the wake of the 2014 Ukrainian revolution. Pro-Russian protesters occupied the Donetsk RSA from 1–6 March, before being removed by the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU). On 6 April, 1,000–2,000 people gathered at a rally in Donetsk to demand a status referendum similar to the one held in Crimea in March. The demonstrators stormed the RSA building, and took control of its first two floors. They said that if an extraordinary legislative session was not held by regional officials to implement a status referendum, they would take control of the regional government with a \"people's mandate\", and dismiss all elected regional councillors and members of parliament. As these demands were not met, the activists held a meeting in the RSA building, and voted in favour of independence from Ukraine. They proclaimed the Donetsk People's Republic (DPR). Concurrent to the events in Donetsk, armed forces led by Russian operative Igor Girkin stormed and occupied government buildings in other regional centres beginning on 12 April.\n\nUnrest in Luhansk Oblast began on 6 April, when approximately 1,000 activists seized and occupied the SBU building in the city of Luhansk, following similar occupations in the cities of Donetsk and Kharkiv. Protesters barricaded the building, and demanded that all arrested separatist leaders be released. Police were able to retake control of the building, but the demonstrators regathered for a 'people's assembly' outside the building and called for a 'people's government', demanding either federalisation or incorporation into the Russian Federation. At this assembly, they elected Valery Bolotov to the position of \"People's Governor\". Two referendums were announced, one on 11 May to determine whether the region should seek some form of autonomy, and a second scheduled for 18 May to determine whether the region should join the Russian Federation, or declare independence.\n\nThe Luhansk People's Republic (LPR) was declared on 27 April. Representatives of the Republic demanded that Ukrainian government provide amnesty for all protesters, enshrine Russian as an official language, and hold a referendum on the status of the region. They issued an ultimatum that stated that if Kiev did not meet their demands by 14:00 on 29 April, they would launch an insurgency in tandem with that of the Donetsk People's Republic.\n\nUnmarked separatist militants seized the Donetsk city office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs on 12 April without resistance. Following negotiations between the militants and those in the building, the chief of the office resigned from his post. Officers from the Berkut special police force, which had been dissolved by the government following the February revolution, took part in the seizure on the separatists' side. After having gained control of the Donetsk RSA and having declared the Donetsk People's Republic, pro-Russian groups vowed to fan out and take control of strategic infrastructure across Donetsk Oblast, and demanded that public officials who wished to continue their work swear allegiance to the Republic. By 14 April, pro-Russian separatists had taken control of government buildings in many other cities within the oblast, including Mariupol, Horlivka, Sloviansk, Kramatorsk, Yenakiieve, Makiivka, Druzhkivka, and Zhdanivka. Following this seizure of the Donetsk RSA, the militants began to expand their control across the city. The municipal administration building was stormed and occupied by the insurgents on 16 April. Further actions by the separatists resulted in the capture of the offices of the regional state television network on 27 April. After capturing the broadcasting centre, the militants began to broadcast Russian television channels. On 4 May, the flag of the Donetsk People's Republic was raised over the police headquarters in Donetsk city proper.\n\nIn response to the widening unrest, the acting Ukrainian President, Oleksandr Turchynov, vowed to launch a major \"anti-terror\" operation against separatist movements in Donetsk Oblast. The Minister of Internal Affairs, Arsen Avakov, said on 9 April that the unrest in Donetsk Oblast would be resolved within forty-eight hours, either through negotiations or the use of force. President Oleksandr Turchynov signed a decree to retake the Donetsk RSA building, and place it \"under state protection,\" and offered amnesty to the demonstrators if they laid down their arms.\n\nA group of masked pro-Russian militants under the command of a retired FSB officer Igor Girkin took control of the city administration building, police offices, and SBU building in Sloviansk, a city in the northern part of Donetsk Oblast, on 12 April. After militants took over the city, Sloviansk mayor Nelya Shtepa briefly appeared at an occupied police station, and expressed support for the militants. Others gathered outside the building, and similarly voiced their support for the militants. They told Ukrainian journalists who were reporting on the situation to \"go back to Kiev\". Nelya Shtepa was later detained by the insurgents, and replaced by the self-proclaimed \"people's mayor\" Vyacheslav Ponomarev. The militants gained control of the city's police weapons cache and seized hundreds of firearms, which prompted the Ukrainian government to launch a \"counter-terrorism\" operation to retake the city. This government counter-offensive began on the morning of 13 April. As a result, an entrenched standoff between pro-Russian forces and the Armed Forces of Ukraine ensued, marking the start of combat in Donbass. The city remained under siege until 5 July, when Ukrainian forces recaptured it, with an estimated 15–20,000 people displaced by the fighting. Mayor Shtepa was arrested on 11 July 2014 for allegedly colluding with pro-Russian forces.\n\nIn Kramatorsk, a city in northern Donetsk Oblast, separatists attacked a police station on 13 April, resulting in a shootout. The fighters, members of the Donbass People's Militia, later captured the police station. They removed the police station's sign and raised the flag of the Donetsk People's Republic over the building. They then issued an ultimatum that stated that if the city's mayor and administration did not swear allegiance to the Republic by the following Monday, they would remove them from office. Concurrently, a crowd of demonstrators surrounded the city administration building, captured it, and raised the Donetsk People's Republic flag over it. A representative of the Republic addressed locals outside the occupied police station, but was received negatively and booed.\n\nAfter a government counter-offensive as part of the \"anti-terror\" operation in Donetsk Oblast on 2–3 May, the insurgents were routed from Kramatorsk's occupied SBU building. Despite this, Ukrainian troops quickly withdrew from the city for unknown reasons, and the separatists quickly regained control. Sporadic fighting continued until 5 July, when the insurgents withdrew from Kramatorsk.\n\nMilitants attempted to seize the police headquarters in Horlivka on 12 April, but were halted. \"Ukrayinska Pravda\" reported that police said that the purpose of the attempted seizure was to gain access to a weapons cache. They said that they would use force if needed to defend the building from \"criminals and terrorists\". By 14 April, however, militants had captured the building after a tense standoff with the police. Some members of the local police unit had defected to the Donetsk People's Republic earlier in the day, whilst the remaining officers were forced to retreat, allowing the insurgents to take control of the building. The local chief of police was captured and badly beaten by the insurgents. A Horlivka city council deputy, Volodymyr Rybak, was kidnapped by masked men believed to be pro-Russian militants on 17 April. His body was later found in a river on 22 April. The city administration building was seized on 30 April, solidifying separatist control over Horlivka. Self-proclaimed mayor of Horlivka Volodymyr Kolosniuk was arrested by the SBU on suspicion of participation in \"terrorist activities\" on 2 July.\n\nDonetsk People's Republic activists took control of the city administration building in Mariupol on 13 April. The Ukrainian government claimed to have \"liberated\" the building on 24 April, but this was denied by locals interviewed by the BBC near the building.\n\nClashes between government forces and pro-Russian groups escalated in early May, when the city administration building was briefly retaken by the Ukrainian National Guard. The pro-Russian forces quickly took the building back. Militants then launched an attack on a local police station, leading the Ukrainian government to send in military forces. Skirmishes between the troops and local demonstrators caused the city administration building to be set on fire. Government forces, however, were unsuccessful in forcing out the pro-Russians, and only further inflamed tensions in Mariupol. On 16 May, however, Metinvest steelworkers, along with local police and security forces, routed the insurgents from the city administration and other occupied government buildings in the city. Most insurgents left the city, and those few remaining were said to be unarmed. Despite this, the headquarters of the Donetsk People's Republic in the city remained untouched, and pro-Russian demonstrators could still be seen outside the burnt city administration.\n\nUkrainian troops gained control of the city on 13 June, with assistance from the National Guard. The headquarters of the DPR was captured. Mariupol was then declared the provisional capital of Donetsk Oblast, in place of Donetsk city, which was occupied by separatists.\n\nMany smaller cities across the Donbass fell to the separatists.\n\nIn Artemivsk on 12 April, separatists failed to capture the local Ministry of Internal Affairs office, but instead captured the city administration building and raised the Donetsk People's Republic flag over it. The city administration buildings in Yenakiieve and Druzhkivka were also captured. Police repelled an attack by pro-Russian militants upon an office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Krasnyi Lyman on 12 April, but the building was later captured by the separatists after a skirmish. Insurgents affiliated with the Donbass People's Militia occupied a regional administration building in Khartsyzk on 13 April, followed by a local administration building in Zhdanivka on 14 April. Demonstrators hoisted the flag of the Donetsk People's Republic over the city administration buildings in Krasnoarmiisk and Novoazovsk on 16 April. The local administration building in Siversk was similarly captured on 18 April. Following the takeover, local police announced that they would co-operate with the activists. On 20 April, separatists in Yenakiieve left the city administration building there which they had occupied since 13 April. Despite this, by 27 May the city was still not under Ukrainian government control. Pro-Russian demonstrators in Kostiantynivka burnt down the offices of a newspaper that had been critical of the DPR on 22 April.\n\n70 to 100 insurgents armed with assault rifles and rocket launchers attacked an armoury in Artemivsk on 24 April. The depot housed around thirty tanks. Ukrainian troops attempted to fight off the insurgents, but were forced to retreat after a substantial number of men were wounded by insurgent fire. The Minister of Internal Affairs, Arsen Avakov, said that the insurgents were led by a man with \"an extensive beard\", referring to the Russian militant Alexander Mozhaev. Some thirty militants seized the police headquarters in Konstantinovka on 28 April. On the next day, a city administration building in Pervomaisk was overrun by Luhansk People's Republic insurgents, who then raised their flag over it. On the same day, militants seized control over the city administration building in Alchevsk. In Krasnyi Luch, the city administration conceded to demands by separatist activists to support the referendums on the status of Donetsk and Luhansk being held on 11 May, and followed by raising the Russian flag over the city administration building.\n\nInsurgents occupied the city administration building in Stakhanov on 1 May. Later in the week, they captured the local police station, business centre, and SBU building. Activists in Rovenky occupied a police building on 5 May, but quickly left it. On the same day, the police headquarters in Slovianoserbsk was seized by members of the Army of the South-East, which is affiliated with the Luhansk People's Republic. The town of Antratsyt was occupied by a number of renegade Don Cossacks. Insurgents went on to seize the prosecutor's office in Sievierodonetsk on 7 May. On the next day, supporters of the Luhansk People's Republic captured government buildings in Starobilsk.\n\nArsen Avakov, the Minister of Internal Affairs, said on 9 April that the separatist problem would be resolved within forty-eight hours, through either negotiations or the use of force. \"There are two opposite ways for resolving this conflict – a political dialogue and the heavy-handed approach. We are ready for both,\" he said, according to the Ukrinform state news agency. At the time, President Oleksandr Turchynov had already signed a decree which called for the Donetsk Regional State Administration building, which had been occupied by separatists, to be taken \"under state protection\". He offered amnesty to any separatists who laid down their arms and surrendered. By 11 April, the Prime Minister, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, said that he was against the use of \"law enforcement\" at the time, but that \"there was a limit\" to how much the Ukrainian government would tolerate.\n\nIn response to the spread of separatist control throughout Donetsk Oblast, and the refusal of the separatists to lay down their arms, Turchynov vowed to launch a military counter-offensive operation against insurgents in the region on 15 April. As part of the counter-offensive, Ukrainian troops re-took the airfield in Kramatorsk after a skirmish with members of the Donbass People's Militia. At least four people died as a result.\n\nAfter the Armed Forces of Ukraine re-took the airfield, the commanding general of the unit that had retaken it, Vasyliy Krutov, was surrounded by hostile protesters who demanded to know why the Ukrainian troops had fired upon local residents. Krutov was then dragged back to the airbase along with his unit. They were then blocked by the protesters, who vowed not to let the troops leave the base. Krutov later told reporters that \"if they [the separatists] do not lay down their arms, they will be destroyed\".\nDonbass People's Militia insurgents entered Sloviansk on 16 April, along with six armoured personnel carriers they claimed to have obtained from the 25th Airborne Brigade, which had surrendered in the city of Kramatorsk. Reports say members of the brigade were disarmed after the vehicles were blocked from passing by angry locals. In another incident, several hundred residents of the village of Pchyolkino, south of Sloviansk, surrounded another column of fourteen Ukrainian armoured vehicles. Following negotiations the troops were allowed to drive their vehicles away, but only after agreeing to surrender the magazines from their assault rifles. These incidents led President Turchynov to disband the 25th Airborne Brigade. Three members of the Donbass People's Militia were killed, eleven wounded, and sixty-three were arrested after they attempted and failed to storm a National Guard base in Mariupol.\n\nTurchynov relaunched the stalled counter-offensive against pro-Russian insurgents on 22 April, after two men, one a local politician, were found \"tortured to death\". The politician, Volodymyr Rybak, was found dead near Sloviansk after having been abducted by pro-Russian insurgents. Turchynov said that \"the terrorists who effectively took the whole Donetsk Oblast hostage have now gone too far\". The Internal Affairs Ministry reported that the city of Sviatogorsk, near Sloviansk, was retaken by Ukrainian troops on 23 April. In addition, the Defence Ministry said it had taken control over all points of strategic importance in the area around Kramatorsk.\nThe Internal Affairs Minister, Arsen Avakov, said on 24 April that Ukrainian troops had captured the city administration in Mariupol, after a clash with pro-Russian demonstrators there. Despite this, a report by the BBC said that whilst it appeared that Ukrainian troops and the mayor of Mariupol did enter the building in the early morning, Ukrainian troops had abandoned it by the afternoon. Local pro-Russian activists blamed Ukrainian nationalists for the attack upon the building, but said that the DPR had regained control. A representative of the Republic, Irina Voropoyeva, said \"We, the Donetsk People's Republic, still control the building. There was an attempted provocation but now it's over\".\n\nOn the same day, Ukrainian government officials said that the Armed Forces had intended to retake the city of Sloviansk, but that an increased threat of \"Russian invasion\" halted these operations. Russian forces had mobilised within of the Ukrainian border. The officials said that seven troops were killed during the day's operations. President Turchynov issued a statement later in the day, and said that the \"anti-terrorist\" operation would be resumed, citing the ongoing hostage crisis in Sloviansk as a reason. By 6 May, fourteen Ukrainian troops had died and sixty-six had been injured in the fighting.\nEarly in the morning on 7 May, the National Guard retook the city administration in Mariupol after heavy fighting with insurgents overnight. Anti-government demonstrators said that government forces had used a \"toxic gas\" during the operation, resulting in injuries when the demonstrators tried to re-occupy the building after the National Guard withdrew. By 7 May, the flag of the DPR was once again flying over the building.\n\nUkrainian troops launched another attack on insurgents in Mariupol on 9 May. During an assault on an occupied police building, that building was set alight by government forces, causing the insurgents to flee. Arsen Avakov said that sixty insurgents attacked the police building, not Ukrainian troops, and that the police and other government forces had managed to repel the insurgents. Between six and twenty militants were killed, along with one police officer. Four militants were captured, and five policemen were wounded. One armoured personnel carrier was captured by pro-Russian protesters during the fighting. After the clashes, pro-Russian forces built barricades across the city centre. Concurrently, \"Ukrainian National News\" said that separatists attempted to disarm Ukrainian troops near Donetsk. The troops resisted by firing warning shots, and arresting one-hundred of the separatists. Also, an unnamed Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate) priest attempted to negotiate with separatists near Druzhkivka, but was later killed after being shot eight times. This was confirmed by the Church and the Prosecutor's Office.\n\nIt was reported on 12 May that, following the local autonomy referendum, the Donbass People's Militia leader Igor Girkin declared himself \"Supreme Commander\" of the Donetsk People's Republic. In his decree, he demanded that all military stationed in the region swear an oath of allegiance to him within 48 hours, and said that all remaining Ukrainian military in the region would be \"destroyed on the spot.\" He then petitioned the Russian Federation for military support to protect against \"the threat of intervention by NATO\" and \"genocide.\" Pavel Gubarev, president of Donetsk People's Republic, instituted martial law on 15 May, and vowed for \"total annihilation\" of Ukrainian forces if they did not pull out of the Donbass by 21:00. Similarly, the president of the Luhansk People's Republic, Valery Bolotov, declared martial law on 22 May.\n\nThe Donetsk-based steel magnate Rinat Akhmetov called on his 300,000 employees within the Donetsk region to \"rally against separatists\" on 20 May. Sirens sounded at noon at his factories to signal the beginning of the rally. A so-called \"Peace March\" was held in the Donbass Arena in Donetsk city, accompanied by cars sounding their horns at noon. BBC News and \"Ukrayinska Pravda\" reported that some vehicles were attacked by separatists, and that gunmen had warned the offices of several city taxi services not to take part. In response to Akhmetov's refusal to pay taxes to the Donetsk People's Republic, on 20 May the chairman of the State Council of the DPR, Denis Pushilin, announced that the Republic would attempt to nationalise Akhmetov's assets. On 25 May, between 2,000 and 5,000 protesters marched to Akhmetov's mansion in Donetsk city, and demanded the nationalisation of Akhmetov's property, while chanting \"Akhmetov is an enemy of the people!\".\n\nEighteen soldiers were killed during an insurgent attack upon an army checkpoint near the city of Volnovakha, on 22 May. Three armoured personnel carriers and several lorries were destroyed in the attack, whilst one insurgent was killed. On the same day, a convoy consisting of one-hundred soldiers attempted to cross a bridge at Rubizhne, near Luhansk, and advance into insurgent-held territory. They were ambushed by a group of between 300 and 500 insurgents. After fighting that lasted throughout the day, the soldiers were forced to retreat. Between two and fourteen soldiers, and seven and twenty insurgents were killed during the fighting. Three army infantry combat vehicles and one lorry were destroyed, and another three armoured vehicles were captured by the insurgents. The Internal Affairs Ministry stated that some insurgents had attempted to enter Luhansk Oblast from Russia, but had been repelled by border guards.\n\nFollowing a declaration by Pavel Gubarev establishing the \"New Russia Party\" on 22 May, representatives of the Donetsk and Luhansk republics signed an agreement creating the confederative state of New Russia. Separatists planned to incorporate most of Ukraine's southern and eastern regions into the new confederation, including the key cities of Kharkiv, Kherson, Dnipropetrovsk, Mykolaiv, Zaporizhia and Odessa. The declaration signed established the position of Russian Orthodoxy as the state religion and an intention to nationalise key industries.\n\nA unit of the pro-government Donbas Battalion volunteer paramilitary attempted to advance on a separatist checkpoint near the village of Karlivka, northwest of Donetsk city, on 23 May. They were ambushed by a group of between 150 and 200 separatists, supported by one of the captured armoured personnel carriers. The pro-government paramilitary was surrounded by the separatists, and outnumbered six to one, until fighters affiliated with the nationalist Right Sector broke through the separatist lines to allow some members of the group to escape. Five members of the Donbas Battalion were killed, along with four separatists. Twenty of the pro-government paramilitaries were wounded, and at least four were captured. The involvement of Right Sector was disputed by the leadership of the Donbas Battalion. Pro-Russian leader Igor Bezler said that he executed all of the captured paramilitaries. Another separatist leader confirmed four of their fighters were killed, and also said that ten pro-government paramilitaries and two civilians died. During the same day, two pro-Russian separatists were killed during an assault by the pro-government \"Ukraine Battalion\" paramilitary on an occupied local government building in Torez.\n\nOn the morning of 26 May, 200 pro-Russian insurgents, including members of the Vostok Battalion, captured the main terminal of the Donetsk International Airport, erected roadblocks around it, and demanded that government forces withdraw. Soon after these demands were issued, the Ukrainian National Guard issued an ultimatum to the separatists, asking them to surrender. This was subsequently rejected. Government forces then launched an assault on separatist positions at the airport with paratroopers and airstrikes. Attack helicopters were also used by government forces. They targeted a separatist-operated anti-aircraft gun.\nAn estimated forty insurgents died in the fighting, with some civilians caught in the crossfire.\nBetween fifteen and thirty-five insurgents were killed in a single incident, when two lorries carrying wounded fighters away from airport were destroyed in an ambush by government forces.\n\nDuring the fighting at the airport, Druzhba Arena in Donetsk city was ransacked by pro-Russian insurgents, who looted the building and destroyed surveillance equipment, and set it ablaze. Concurrently, Donetsk police said the insurgents had killed two policemen in the nearby town of Horlivka. \"The Moscow Times\" reported that the two men had been executed for \"breaking their oath to the Donetsk People's Republic\".\n\nLuhansk People's Republic-affiliated insurgents attacked a Ukrainian National Guard unit in the early hours of 28 May. \"RIA Novosti\" reported that eighty National Guard members subsequently surrendered to the insurgents, whilst the National Guard issued a statement that said \"there have been losses both in the ranks of the military unit and the attacking side.\" At least one separatist and one soldier died in the fighting.\n\nMykhailo Koval, the Minister of Defence, said on 30 May that Ukrainian government forces had \"completely cleared\" the insurgents from the southern and western parts of Donetsk Oblast and the northern part of Luhansk Oblast. Meanwhile, an internal coup replaced the leadership of the Donetsk People's Republic, and some bodies of Russian fighters killed in the airport battle were repatriated to Russia.\n\nTwo separatists were killed in a skirmish with Ukrainian border guards on 31 May. Two days later, five separatists were killed when 500 separatists attacked a border post in Luhansk Oblast. Eleven border guards and eight separatists were wounded during the fighting, which also killed one civilian.\n\nOn 2 June, eight people were killed and more than 20 wounded by a series of explosions hitting the occupied RSA building in Luhansk city. Separatists blamed the incident on a government airstrike, while Ukrainian officials denied this, and claimed that the explosions were caused by a stray surface-to-air missile fired by insurgents. The OSCE published a report on the next day, stating that based on \"limited observation\", they believed that the explosion was caused by an airstrike, verifying separatist claims. A CNN investigation found clear evidence that the attack came from the air and the pattern of the craters suggested use of standard equipment on the Su-25, a ground-attack fighter, and the Su-27 – both combat aircraft operated by Ukraine.\nAnalysis of Radio Liberty also concluded that \"Despite Denials, All Evidence For Deadly Explosion Points To Kyiv\". CNN believes that it was the first time that civilians have been killed in an attack by the Ukrainian air force during the 2014 pro-Russian unrest in Donbass. Next day Luhansk People's Republic declared a three-day mourning in the city.\n\nGovernment forces destroyed a separatist stronghold in Semenivka, and regained control of Krasnyi Lyman on 3 June. Two soldiers were killed in the fighting, and forty-five were wounded. A spokesman for the Armed Forces of Ukraine said that 300 insurgents were killed during the operation, and that 500 were wounded. Insurgents said they lost between ten and fifty men. They said that at least twenty-five were killed while in hospital at Krasnyi Lyman. None of these reports were independently confirmed, and both sides denied the other's accounts of the battle.\n\nOn the next day, insurgents captured the besieged Luhansk border post, as well as a National Guard base near Luhansk city. The fighting in these areas left six insurgents dead, and three government soldiers wounded. Another border post was captured by the insurgents in Sverdlovsk. The National Guard base fell after guardsmen ran out of ammunition. Separatists had earlier seized vast quantities of munitions from the captured border post.\n\nAnother border post was attacked on 5 June, in the village of Marynivka. Government officials said that between fifteen and sixteen insurgents were killed and that five soldiers were injured as well. A shootout between rival separatist groups in Donetsk city took place on 7 June, near the Donetsk RSA. The vice-president of the Donetsk People's Republic, Maxim Petrukhin, was killed in the fighting, and president Denis Pushilin was wounded.\n\nUkrainian officials said that Russia had allowed tanks to cross the Russo-Ukrainian border into Donetsk Oblast on 11 June. Internal Affairs Minister Arsen Avakov said \"we have observed columns passing with armoured personnel carriers, other armoured vehicles and artillery pieces, and tanks which, according to our information, came across the border and this morning were in Snizhne\". He continued by saying Ukrainian forces had destroyed part of the column, and that fighting was still under way. Reuters correspondents confirmed the presence of three tanks in Donetsk city, and the US State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and Research also said that Russia had indeed sent tanks, along with other heavy weapons, to the separatists in Ukraine. The weapons sent are said to include: a column of three T-64 tanks, several BM-21 Grad multiple rocket launchers, and other military vehicles. \"Russia will claim these tanks were taken from Ukrainian forces, but no Ukrainian tank units have been operating in that area,\" the State Department said in a statement. \"We are confident that these tanks came from Russia.\" The newly elected Ukrainian president, Petro Poroshenko, said that it was \"unacceptable\" for tanks to be crossing into Ukraine. Russia called the reports \"another fake piece of information.\" Nevertheless, the three tanks were later spotted moving through Makiivka and Torez, flying the flag of the Russian Federation. Insurgents confirmed that they had obtained three tanks, but leaders refused to elaborate on how they acquired them; one militant told reporters that they originated \"from a military warehouse.\" The president of the DPR, Denis Pushilin, stated that the three tanks would be stationed in Donetsk city, and that they gave his forces \"at least some hope of defending [Donetsk] because heavy weapons are already being used against us.\" Konstantin Mashovets, a former Ukrainian Defence Ministry official, said the tanks had likely been seized by Russian forces in Crimea before making their way into mainland Ukraine. Anton Heraschenko, an advisor to Arsen Avakov, confirmed at a briefing in Kiev that the tanks were once in the possession of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in Crimea, and that they had been transferred by sea to Russia before crossing the border into Ukraine.\nOn the day after the tank incursion, three soldiers were killed when they were ambushed by insurgents in Stepanivka. Heavy fighting resumed during the morning of 13 June, when the government launched a new attack against insurgents in Mariupol. Ukrainian troops managed to recapture the city, and declared it the \"provisional capital\" of Donetsk Oblast until the government regains control over Donetsk city. Meanwhile, an agreement between the Minister of Internal Affairs, Arsen Avakov, and the president of the DPR, Denis Pushilin, meant to create a ceasefire and allow civilians to escape the violence in Sloviansk failed, with both sides blaming each other for launching new attacks. During the next morning, a convoy of border guardsmen was attacked by insurgents while passing Mariupol, leaving at least five of the guardsmen dead.\n\nA Ukrainian Air Force Ilyushin Il-76MD was shot down by forces aligned with the Luhansk People's Republic on 14 June. The aircraft was preparing to land at Luhansk International Airport, and was carrying troops and equipment from an undisclosed location. All forty-nine people on board died. Meanwhile, two T-72 tanks entered Donetsk, and a skirmish erupted at a military checkpoint in Luhansk, lasting two days.\n\nLate on 19 June, a battle fought with tanks and armoured vehicles broke out in town of Yampil, near government-held Krasnyi Lyman. Up to 4,000 insurgents were present for the fighting, which started, according to the insurgents, after the Armed Forces attempted to capture insurgent-held Yampil, with the goal of breaking through to Siversk. According to the Armed Forces, it started after insurgents attempted to break through a cordon of government troops around government-held Krasny Lyman. The battle was described as exceeding \"in terms of force and scale anything there has been\" during the conflict in Donbass. The Armed Forces deployed both air and artillery strikes in their attempts to rout the insurgents. The battle continued into the next day. Overnight, between seven and twelve soldiers were killed and between twenty-five and thirty were wounded. The Armed Forces said they killed 300 insurgents, but this was not independently verified, the separatists confirmed only two deaths and seven wounded on their side. The insurgents also said they destroyed one tank, several BMD-1s, and also shot down a Su-25 bomber.\n\nThe Ukrainian military said that they had gained control of Yampil and Siversk on 20 June, twenty hours before a unilateral ceasefire by Ukrainian forces, as part of Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko's fifteen-point peace plan. They also acknowledged that there was still heavy fighting in the area around Yampil, and the village of Zakitne. By this point, the number of soldiers killed in the battle had reached thirteen. During the continued fighting, militants blew up a bridge over a river in the village of Zakitne.\n\nAfter a week-long ceasefire unilaterally declared by Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko ended, the Armed Forces renewed their operations against the insurgents on 1 July. Shelling occurred in Kramatorsk and Sloviansk, and government forces retook a border crossing in Dolzhansk, one of the three major border crossings occupied by the separatists. Government forces also recaptured the villages of Brusivka and Stary Karavan. On the same day, insurgents in Luhansk said that they had taken control of Luhansk International Airport. On 1 July 2014 in Donetsk a street gun fight broke between rivalling factions of the pro-Russian militants, which resulted in one person being fatally wounded and two others in critical conditions.\n\nInternal Affairs Ministry spokesman Zoryan Shkyriak said that over 1,000 pro-Russian insurgents were killed in the first day following the resumption of hostilities. Liga.net, citing a source involved with the government military operation, reported that over 400 insurgents were killed in action, but that the higher figures reported earlier could not be confirmed. Separatists themselves reported only two deaths in fighting at Mykolaivka.\nInsurgents attacked a border post in Novoazovsk on 2 July. During the attack, mortars were fired upon the post, and clashes broke out. One border guard was killed in the fighting, and another eight guardsmen were injured. Government forces recaptured the town of Mykolaivka, near Sloviansk, on 4 July. A group of DPR-affiliated militants defected as a result, and joined the Ukrainian army.\n\nIn a further blow to the insurgents, government forces retook the stronghold of Sloviansk on 5 July. Commander of the DPR insurgents, Igor Girkin, took the decision \"due to the overwhelming numerical superiority of the enemy\", according to DPR prime minister Alexander Borodai. He said that DPR forces had retreated to Kramatorsk, but BBC News reported that they were seen abandoning their checkpoints in Kramatorsk. Later that day, Borodai confirmed that the insurgents had abandoned \"the entire northern sector\", including Kramatorsk, and had retreated to Donetsk city. After the retreat of Girkin's forces to Donetsk, he assumed control of the DPR, replacing the previous authorities there in what was described as a \"coup d'état\".\n\nSubsequently, Ukraine's Armed Forces recaptured Druzhkivka, Kostyantynivka, and Artemivsk. Amidst the insurgent retreat, Donetsk city mayor Oleksandr Lukyanchenko said that at least 30,000 people had left the city since April. In a separate development, Ukrainian forces said they spotted two aerial drones in Mariupol, and shot one of them down.\n\nAhead of a planned government offensive on the insurgent-occupied city of Donetsk, key roads leading into the city were blocked on 7 July. Insurgents destroyed railway bridges over the roads, causing them to collapse and block the roads. Defence Minister Valeriy Heletey stated on 8 July that there would be \"no more unilateral ceasefires\", and said dialogue was only possible if the insurgents laid down their weapons. More fighting broke out at Luhansk International Airport on 9 July. LPR-affiliated insurgents said that they had captured the airport on 1 July, but the Ukrainian army managed to maintain control over it. More than 10,000 households in Luhansk Oblast are without gas service due to damage to gas lines, according to a statement on the same day by the regional gas supplier.\n\nClashes at the Donetsk International Airport continued on 10 July. Insurgents fired mortars at the airport, and attempted to recapture it, but were repelled by the Armed Forces. Ukrainian forces also retook the city of Siversk, which was confirmed by the insurgents. On the same day, the Luhansk city administration reported that six civilians had been injured due to ongoing hostilities across the city. There were also reports of factionalism among the separatists, with some desertions. According to these reports, the Vostok Battalion had rejected the authority of Igor Girkin. Alexander Borodai, prime minister of the DPR, denied these reports, however, and said that they were lies.\n\nHeavy fighting continued in Luhansk Oblast on 11 July. On that day, an Armed Forces column travelling near Rovenky was attacked by an insurgent-operated Grad rocket lorry. An air strike launched by the Armed Forces eventually managed to destroy the rocket launcher, but only after twenty-three soldiers were killed. In response to the attack, Ukrainian president Poroshenko said that \"For every life of our soldiers, the militants will pay with tens and hundreds of their own\". On the next day, the Ukrainian Air Force launched air strikes targeting insurgent positions across Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts. The Ukrainian government said that 500 insurgents were killed in these strikes, which they said were retaliations for the separatist rocket attack on the previous day. Four people were killed at Marinka, a western suburb of Donetsk city, after rockets struck an insurgent-held area of the city. The Ukrainian government and separatists blamed each other for the attack.\n\nAfter a brief lull following the insurgent withdrawal from the northern part of Donetsk Oblast, fighting continued to escalate sharply in the eastern parts of Donetsk Oblast. Shells landed on the border town of Donetsk in Rostov Oblast, a part of Russia, on 13 July. One civilian was killed in the shelling. Russian officials blamed the Armed Forces of Ukraine for the shelling, whilst Ukraine denied responsibility and accused insurgents in Donbass of having staged a false flag attack. Russia said it was considering launching airstrikes against government targets in Ukraine as retaliation for the shelling. Ukrainian forces went on to make gains around Luhansk, ending an insurgent blockade of Luhansk International Airport. LPR officials acknowledged that they lost thirty men during fighting in the village of Oleksandrivka. The insurgent-occupied town of Snizhne was hit by rockets fired from an aeroplane on 15 July, leaving at least eleven people dead, and destroying multiple homes. The insurgents blamed the Air Force of Ukraine, but the Ukrainian government denied any involvement in the attack.\n\nClashes broke out between insurgents and the Armed Forces along the border with Russia in Shakhtarsk Raion on 16 July. Insurgents who had been holed up in the town of Stepanivka made an attempt to escape encirclement by government forces at 05:00. According to a report by the National Guard, a roadblock near the border village of Marynivka was attacked by the insurgents with tanks, mortar fire, and anti-tank missiles. The checkpoint was shelled for over an hour, causing significant damage to infrastructure in Marynivka. Guardsmen managed to repel the attack, and forced the insurgents back to Stepanivka, where fighting continued. The battle then moved to the nearby village of Tarany. At least eleven Ukrainian soldiers died in the fighting. Attempts to form a \"contact group\" between the insurgents and the Ukrainian government, part of President Poroshenko's \"fifteen-point peace plan\", failed, leaving little hope of a renewed ceasefire. The insurgents later said that they successfully retook Marynivka from the Armed Forces.\n\nA civilian passenger jet, Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, was shot down over Hrabove on 17 July, killing all 298 people on board. DPR-affiliated insurgents blamed the Ukrainian government for the disaster, whereas the government, Netherlands, and Australia blamed Russia and the insurgents. This disaster followed two similar incidents earlier in the week, when two Ukrainian Air Force planes were shot down. Meanwhile, fighting in Luhansk resulted in the loss of electrical power and water services across the city. Shelling damaged an electrical substation in the district Kamennobrodskiy, causing the power loss. An oil refinery in Lysychansk was also set alight. At least twenty civilians were killed in the shelling of Luhansk, according to a statement by the city administration. The statement said that a barrage of rockets hit \"virtually every district\". The shelling forced OSCE monitors to flee from their office in Luhansk, and move to Starobilsk. Government forces went on to capture the south-eastern section of the city. Another sixteen people died overnight, and at least sixty were wounded. According to a government report, Luhansk airport was secured by government forces amidst the battle.\n\nHeavy fighting also resumed around Donetsk airport overnight, and explosions were heard in all districts of the city. The city fell quiet by 09:00 on 19 July. By 21 July, heavy fighting in Donetsk had begun again. Donetsk was rocked by explosions, and heavy weapons fire caused smoke to rise over the city. Fighting was concentrated in the northwestern districts of Kyivskyi and Kuibyshevskyi, and also near the central railway station and airport, leading local residents to seek refuge in bomb shelters, or to flee the city. The city's water supply was cut off during the fighting, and all railway and bus service was stopped. The streets emptied, and insurgents erected barricades across the city to control traffic. The cities of Dzerzhynsk, Soledar, and Rubizhne were also recaptured by government forces.\n\nThe suburb of Mayorsk, just outside Horlivka, and the city of Sievierodonetsk, in Luhansk Oblast, were recaptured by the Armed Forces on 22 July. OSCE monitors visiting Donetsk following the previous day's fighting there said that the city was \"practically deserted\", and that the fighting had stopped. On the same day, DPR prime minister Alexander Borodai said that he wanted to resume ceasefire talks. DPR commander Igor Girkin also said \"The time has come when Russia must take a final decision – to really support Donbas's Russians or abandon them forever\". Also, the pro-Ukrainian paramilitary Donbas Battalion captured Popasna.\nAfter having retaken Sievierodonetsk, government forces fought insurgents around the neighbouring city of Lysychansk. An insurgent car bomb killed three soldiers during the fighting there. Grad rocket attacks were launched against government forces garrisoned at Vesela Hora, Kamysheve, and also Luhansk airport. The press centre for the government military operation said that situation remained \"most complex\" in the areas around \"Donetsk city, Luhansk city, Krasnodon and Popasna\". Government forces broke through the insurgent blockade around Donetsk airport on 23 July, and then advanced into the northwestern corner of Donetsk city. Subsequently, the insurgents withdrew from many areas on the outskirts of the city, including Karlivka, , , and the area around Donetsk airport. Insurgent commander Igor Girkin said that this was done to fortify Donetsk city centre, and also to avoid being encircled by government forces. He also said that he did not expect a government incursion into Donetsk city centre. Meanwhile, clashes continued in Shakhtarsk Raion, along the border with Russia. Amidst the fighting, two Ukrainian Su-25 fighter jets that had been providing air support to ground forces near Dmytrivka were shot down by the insurgents.\n\nBy the next day, government forces recaptured Lysychansk. On the same day, fighting raged around Horlivka. Government forces launched air and artillery strikes on insurgents within the city, and clashes were fought all around it. One important bridge collapsed in the fighting, severing a critical route out of the city. People fled the violence in cars and on foot. Despite these advances by the Armed Forces, the border with Russia was not secured. Izvaryne border post in Luhansk Oblast, which is controlled by the Army of the South-East, was reported to be the main entry point for weapons and reinforcements from Russia. Shelling began again in the Kyivskyi, Kirovskyi and Petrovskyi districts of Donetsk city. According to Donetsk city administration, eleven houses were damaged in Petrovsky, and at least one man was injured. The fighting continued overnight into 26 July, with explosions, shelling, and shooting heard across the city.\n\nDuring the third day of the government's offensive on the insurgent-stronghold of Horlivka, between twenty and thirty civilians were killed on 27 July. Horlivka was virtually abandoned, with electric power and water cut off. Shelling damaged or destroyed many buildings, including a hospital, greengrocer's, and energy company office. Ukrainian troops also entered the town of Shakhtarsk, fought the insurgents that had been occupying it, and captured it around 14:30. This cut off the supply corridor between the territories held by the DPR and LPR, isolating insurgents in Donetsk city. Skirmishes also broke out in the nearby towns of Snizhne and Torez. The intense combat across Shakhtarsk Raion forced a party of Dutch and Australian policemen to call off an attempt to investigate the crash site of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17. Forty-one Ukrainian soldiers deserted their posts and went to the insurgent-controlled Izvaryne border crossing, where they told insurgents that they refused to fight against their \"own people\". The insurgents allowed them to flee Ukraine, and cross into Russia. By 28 July, the strategic heights of Savur-Mohyla were under Ukrainian control, along with the town of Debaltseve. Insurgents had previously used Savur-Mohyla to shell Ukrainian troops around the town of Marynivka. By 29 July, a further seventeen civilians had been killed in the fighting, along with an additional forty-three people injured. Shelling continued in the Leninskyi and Kyivskyi districts of Donetsk city. According to the city administration, these districts were heavily damaged.\n\nAccording to a report by National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, crossing points on the border with Russia were attacked from Russian territory at least 153 times since 5 June. 27 border guardsmen were killed in these attacks, and 185 were injured. Government forces made a further advance on 30 July, when they evicted insurgents from Avdiivka, near Donetsk airport. Military operations were paused on 31 July. This was meant to allow international experts to examine the crash site of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, which is located in Shakhtarsk Raion, where the fiercest battles had been taking place on the previous few days. Monitors were escorted to the site by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. After fighting severed various transmission lines, Luhansk city lost all access to electrical power. Little fuel remained to power emergency generators. Minor skirmishes occurred in Vasylivka and Zhovtneve. Meanwhile, talks between the separatists, Russia, Ukraine, and the OSCE were held in Minsk. Fighting continued in Shakhtarsk. An ambush by the insurgents on government forces there resulted in the deaths of ten soldiers. Eleven went missing, and thirteen were wounded. A government offensive on the city of Pervomaisk in Luhansk Oblast continued.\nFollowing a series of military defeats, Igor Girkin, insurgent commander for the DPR, urged Russian military intervention, and said that the combat inexperience of his irregular forces, along with recruitment difficulties amongst the local population in Donetsk Oblast had caused the setbacks. He addressed Russian president Vladimir Putin, saying that \"Losing this war on the territory that President Vladimir Putin personally named New Russia would threaten the Kremlin's power and, personally, the power of the president\". Government forces closed in on Luhansk and Donetsk cities on 3 August. A number of civilians were killed in fighting in both cities. Luhansk was reported to be \"virtually surrounded\", with little electrical power or water supply available. The situation in the city of Donetsk was less dire, as trains to Russia were still running, but fighting and shelling did not relent. According to the Armed Forces, three-quarters of the territory once held by the insurgents had been recaptured. They also said that they had completely cut off supply lines between the DPR and LPR, after more than a week of fighting in Shakhtarsk Raion.\n\nAfter a prolonged battle, the Armed Forces recaptured the vital town of Yasynuvata on 4 August. At least five soldiers died in the fighting to capture the town, which is a strategic railway junction on the main road between Donetsk and Luhansk cities. The pro-government paramilitary Azov and Shakhtarsk battalions said that they had advanced into Donetsk city, and had begun to \"liberate\" it. The Ukrainian government said that all civilians should evacuate from Donetsk, and issued statements asking DPR and LPR forces to help establish \"humanitarian corridors\" to allow civilians in Donetsk, Luhansk and Horlivka to flee. Commenting on the situation in Luhansk, mayor Sergei Kravchenko said \"As a result of the blockade and ceaseless rocket attacks, the city is on the verge of a humanitarian catastrophe\".\n\nAs government troops pushed into Donetsk on 5 August, heavy fighting erupted at 17:00 in the Petrovskyi district of the city. Elsewhere, insurgents recaptured the town of Yasynuvata after a retreat by government forces. A spokesman from the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine said that the Armed Forces left the town to avoid harming the \"peaceful population\", and that the city was being evacuated so that it could be \"completely liberated\". He also said that the railway station remained under government control, and that all railway traffic had been blocked. Fighting between insurgents and government forces across the Donbass region continued \"constantly\" over the course of the day.\nFighting and shelling continued around Donetsk on 8 August, with several civilians killed or injured. By 9 August, insurgent commander Igor Girkin said that Donetsk had been \"completely encircled\" by government forces. This followed the capture of the vital town of Krasnyi Luch by the government, after insurgent-aligned Cossacks stationed there fled. Further skirmishes between insurgents and the Armed Forces took place in Mnohopillia, Stepanivka, Hryhorivka, Krasny Yar, Pobeda, Shyshkove, Komyshne, Novohannivka, Krasna Talivka, Dmytrivka, Sabivka, and Luhansk airport. Overnight and into 10 August, government forces launched an artillery barrage on Donetsk city, causing \"massive damage\" across it. According to a spokesman for the Armed Forces, insurgents began to flee the city during the barrage, and were in a state of \"panic and chaos\". Hospitals and residential buildings were heavily damaged, and many remaining residents took shelter in basements. The cities of Pervomaisk, Kalynove, Komyshuvakha, in western Luhansk Oblast near Popasna, were captured by government forces on 12 August after heavy fighting. Heavy shelling of Donetsk continued into 14 August. During this artillery barrage, Igor Girkin resigned from his post as commander of the insurgent forces of the Donetsk People's Republic. He was replaced by Vladimir Kononov, who is known by the nom de guerre \"Tsar\".\n\nLater in the day, a convoy of some two dozen armoured personnel carriers and other vehicles with official Russian military plates crossed into Ukraine near the insurgent-controlled Izvaryne border crossing. NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen confirmed that a \"Russian incursion\" into Ukraine had occurred. Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko said that Ukrainian artillery engaged and destroyed a \"significant\" portion of the armoured column. The Russian Defence Ministry denied the existence of any such convoy. Following this incident, the newly appointed prime minister of the DPR Alexander Zakharchenko said that his forces included 1,200 Russian-trained combatants.\n\nA Ukrainian Air Force MiG-29 fighter jet was shot down by the insurgents in Luhansk Oblast on 17 August. Ten civilians were killed during continued shelling in Donetsk. The insurgent-occupied city of Horlivka was encircled by the Armed Forces on 18 August. Government forces also advanced into the edges of Luhansk city. A convoy of refugees from Luhansk was hit by Grad rockets near the village of Novosvitlivka. Dozens of civilians died in the attack, which the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine blamed on the insurgents. Insurgents denied attacking any refugee convoys. DPR prime minister Aleksandr Zakharchenko stated that if the Ukrainian government made \"reasonable proposals to lay down arms, close borders, we will talk on equal terms as equal partners\". He added, however, that the government \"must recognise us as a state, now it is already impossible to ask for a certain degree of autonomy\".\n\nAfter having edged into Luhansk city on 18 August, government forces began to advance through the city \"block by block\" on 19 August. Fighting was heard in streets across the city, and shelling of many insurgent-occupied districts continued. There was also fighting Makiivka and Ilovaisk, two cities just outside Donetsk city. A spokesman for the Internal Affairs Ministry said that government forces were \"clearing\" Ilovaisk of insurgents, and later captured most of the city. The headquarters of the DPR in Donetsk city were also shelled. Fighting across Donetsk Oblast on 19 August resulted in the deaths of 34 civilians. By early evening on 20 August, government forces said that they had recaptured \"significant parts\" of the city of Luhansk, after a series of running battles in streets throughout the day.\n\nBy 25 August, an insurgent counter-offensive had stalled the government's offensive on Donetsk and Luhansk cities. Insurgents attacked government positions in Shchastya, and along the Siverskyi Donets River in Luhansk Oblast. As this attack occurred, insurgents in Luhansk received reinforcements. Government forces near Ilovaisk and Amvrosiivka in Donetsk Oblast became surrounded by insurgents, after their attempt to take Ilovaisk was halted by heavy shelling. The pro-government volunteer Donbas Battalion, trapped in the city for days by the insurgents, accused the Ukrainian government and Armed Forces of \"abandoning\" them. Other volunteer battalions, such as the Azov and Dnipro, left Ilovaisk after encountering heavy resistance. Donbas Battalion leader Semen Semenchenko said \"I think it is profitable for the defence ministry not to send help, but to achieve a situation where volunteer battalions start blaming each other about who helped who\".\nDPR forces stated their intention to \"fight their way to the Azov Sea\" on 23 August. In line with this statement, an artillery barrage rained down on the coastal city of Novoazovsk, in southern Donetsk Oblast. A column of armoured vehicles crossed into Ukraine from Russia near Novoazovsk on 25 August. There were no insurgent formations within of this area for many weeks. Heavy fighting took place in the village of Markyne, from Novoazovsk. Insurgents used the village as a base to shell Novoazovsk. A spokesman for the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine said that the entrance of the column into Ukraine was an attempt \"by the Russian military in the guise of Donbass fighters to open a new area of military confrontation\". According to the Mariupol city website, the Dnipro and Donbas battalions repelled the attack, and the \"invaders\" retreated to the border. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said he had no knowledge of the incident, and suggested that reports of the incident being an incursion by Russian forces were \"disinformation.\" Directly prior to the appearance of the column, the area was heavily shelled. The nearest insurgent artillery positions were beyond the range of this area.\n\nVillagers from Kolosky in Starobesheve Raion told Reuters that military men with Russian accents and no identifying insignias had appeared in the village at the weekend of 23–24 August. They set up a roadblock near the village. The men wore distinctive white armbands. The villagers referred to them as \"polite green men\", a term that was used to refer to the irregular Russian forces that took control of Crimea from February 2014. Following the appearance of these men, ten soldiers in green military uniforms with white armbands were detained by Ukrainian forces at Dzerkalne. This village is north of Novoazovosk, from Kolosky, and about from the Russian border. The Russian military confirmed that these men were indeed Russian paratroopers, and that they had been captured. The Russian Defence Ministry said the men had entered Ukraine \"by mistake during an exercise\". The Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) released videos that they said were interviews with the captive Russian soldiers. In one of the videos, a soldier said that their commanders had sent them on a march \"without explaining its purpose or warning that they would be in Ukrainian territory, where they were apprehended by Ukrainian forces and surrendered without a fight\".\nInsurgents pushed into Novoazovsk on 27 August. Whilst the Ukrainian government said they were in \"total control\" of Novoazovsk, town mayor Oleg Sidorkin confirmed that the insurgents had captured it. He also said that \"dozens\" of tanks and armoured vehicles had been used by the insurgents in their assault on the town. At least four civilians were injured by insurgent shelling. To the north, close to Starobesheve, Ukrainian forces said that they spotted a column of 100 armoured vehicles, tanks, and Grad rocket lorries that was heading south, toward Novoazovsk. They said these vehicles were marked with \"white circles or triangles\", similar to the white armbands seen on the captured Russian paratroopers earlier in the week. Amidst pressure on this new third front, government forces retreated westward toward Mariupol. They evacuated the town of Starobesheve, among other areas in the stretch of borderland from the Sea of Azov to the existing insurgent-held territories. A report by \"The New York Times\" described the retreating soldiers as \"exhausted, filthy and dismayed\". Western officials described the new insurgent actions as a \"stealth invasion\" by the Russian Federation, with tanks, artillery and infantry said to have crossed into Ukraine from Russian territory. US State Department spokesman Jen Psaki said that \"these incursions indicate a Russian-directed counteroffensive is likely underway\", and Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko said \"An invasion of Russian forces has taken place\". A statement by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine (NSDC) later said that Novoazovsk had been captured by \"Russian troops\", despite earlier denials by the Ukrainian government. According to the NSDC, Ukrainian troops withdrew from Novoazovsk to save lives, and were instead preparing defences in Mariupol. Meanwhile, fighting continued in and around Donetsk city. Shells fell on the Kalininskyi district of Donetsk, and the Donbas Battalion continued to fight against the insurgents that had trapped them in Ilovaisk for days. NATO commander Brig. Gen. Nico Tak said on 28 August that \"well over\" 1,000 Russian soldiers were operating in the Donbass conflict zone. Amidst what \"The New York Times\" described as \"chaos\" in the conflict zone, the insurgents re-captured Savur-Mohyla.\n\nDespite these advances by pro-Russian forces, the National Guard of Ukraine temporarily retook the city of Komsomolske in Starobesheve Raion of Donetsk Oblast on 29 August. However, two days later, Ukrainian forces retreated from the city, and Komsomolske was once again taken by the DPR forces. Elsewhere, Ukrainian forces retreated from Novosvitlivka after being attacked by what they said were \"Russian tanks\". They said that every house in the village was destroyed. The trapped Donbas Battalion withdrew from Ilovaisk on 30 August after negotiating an agreement with pro-Russian forces. According to some of the troops who withdrew from Ilovaisk, DPR forces violated the agreement and fired on them whilst they retreated under white flags, killing as many as several dozen.\nA Ukrainian patrol boat in the Sea of Azov was hit by shore-based artillery fire on 31 August. Eight sailors were rescued from the sinking boat, whilst two crew-members were missing. Former insurgent commander Igor Girkin said that the insurgents had \"dealt the enemy their first naval defeat\". Government forces withdrew from Luhansk International Airport on 1 September, despite having held the airport from insurgent attacks for weeks prior. The airport saw fierce fighting on the night before the withdrawal, and Ukrainian officials said that their forces at the airport had been attacked by a column Russian tanks. Clashes also continued at Donetsk International Airport. Heavy fighting was observed by OSCE monitors near the villages of Shyrokyne and Bezimenne on 4 September. Respectively, these villages are and east of Mariupol. Ukrainian officials in Mariupol said that the situation there \"was worsening by the hour\", and that there was an imminent danger of an attack on the city. DPR forces came within of the city on 4 September, but their advance was repulsed by an overnight counter-attack launched by the Armed Forces and the Azov Battalion. They were driven back about east of the city. Constant shelling was heard on the outskirts of Mariupol.\n\nAfter days of peace talks in Minsk under the auspices of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), Ukraine, Russia, the DPR, and the LPR agreed to a ceasefire on 5 September. OSCE monitors said they would observe the ceasefire, and assist the Ukrainian government in implementing it. According to \"The New York Times\", the agreement was an \"almost verbatim\" replication of Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko's failed June \"fifteen-point peace plan\". It was agreed that there would be an exchange of all prisoners taken by both sides, and that heavy weaponry should be removed from the combat zone. Humanitarian corridors were meant to be maintained, so that civilians could leave affected areas. President Poroshenko said that Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts would be granted \"special status\", and that use of the Russian language in these areas would be protected by law. DPR and LPR leaders said that they retained their desire for full independence from Ukraine, despite these concessions. Russian president Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian president Poroshenko discussed the ceasefire on 6 September. Both parties said that they were satisfied with the ceasefire, and that it was generally holding.\n\nThe ceasefire was broken multiple times on the night of 6–7 September, and into the day on 7 September. These violations resulted in the deaths of four Ukrainian soldiers, whilst twenty-nine were injured. Heavy shelling by the insurgents was reported on the eastern outskirts of Mariupol, and OSCE monitors said that the Ukrainian government had fired rockets from Donetsk International Airport. The OSCE said that these breaches of the agreement would not cause the ceasefire to collapse. Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko said on 10 September that \"70% of Russian troops have been moved back across the border\", and also added that this action gave him \"hope that the peace initiatives have good prospects\". Ceasefire violations continued, however. In line with the Minsk Protocol, OSCE monitors said that they observed a prisoner exchange near Avdiivka at 03:40 on 12 September. Ukrainian forces released 31 DPR insurgents, whilst DPR forces released 37 Ukrainian soldiers. OSCE monitors documented violations of the Minsk Protocol in numerous areas of Donetsk Oblast from 13–15 September. These areas included Makiivka, Telmanove, Debaltseve, Petrovske, near Mariupol, Yasynuvata, and Donetsk International Airport, all of which saw intense fighting. Two of the armoured vehicles that the monitors were travelling in were struck by shrapnel, rendering one of the vehicles inoperable and forcing the monitors to retreat. According to the monitors, troop and equipment movements were being carried out by both DPR and Ukrainian forces. They also said that there were \"command and control issues\" amongst both parties to the conflict. A visit by the monitors to Luhansk International Airport took place on 20 September. They said that the airport was \"completely destroyed\", and entirely unusable. Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko said on 21 September that the Armed Forces of Ukraine lost between 60% and 65% of its total active equipment over the course of the war.\n\nMembers of the Trilateral Contact Group and the DPR took part in a video conference on 25 September 2014. According to a statement released by the OSCE on the day after the conference, all parties agreed that the fighting had \"subsided in recent days\", and that the \"situation along 70%\" of the buffer zone was \"calm\". They also said that they would \"spare no efforts\" to strengthen the ceasefire. Scattered violations of the ceasefire continued, nonetheless. In the most significant incident since the start of the ceasefire, seven Ukrainian soldiers died on 29 September when a tank shell struck the armoured personnel carrier that they were travelling in near Donetsk International Airport. A skirmish ensued, leaving many soldiers wounded. Over the next few days, fighting continued around Donetsk International Airport, whilst Donetsk city itself came under heavy shelling. Amidst this renewed violence, OSCE chairman Didier Burkhalter issued a statement that \"urged all sides to immediately stop fighting\", and also said that putting the ceasefire at risk of collapse would be \"irresponsible and deplorable\".\n\nAccording to a report released by the UN Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) on 8 October, the ceasefire implemented by the Minsk Protocol was becoming \"increasingly fragile\". The statement that announced the release of the report said that at least 331 people had been killed since the start of ceasefire, and that the most fierce fighting took place around Donetsk International Airport, Debaltseve, and Shchastya. The report also said that the majority of civilian deaths were caused by both insurgent and Ukrainian shelling. Several hundred National Guard troops protested outside the Ukrainian presidential administration building in Kiev on 13 October. They demanded the end of conscription, and their own demobilisation. According to \"Kyiv Post\", many of the protesters stated that they had clashed with Euromaidan protesters, and that they were not in favour of that movement.\n\nHeavy fighting continued across the Donbass through October, despite the ceasefire. In violation of the procedure agreed to as part of the Minsk Protocol, DPR and LPR authorities held parliamentary and executive elections on 2 November. In response to the elections, Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko asked parliament to revoke the \"special status\" that was granted to DPR and LPR-controlled areas as part of the Minsk Protocol. DPR deputy prime minister Andrei Purgin said that Ukrainian forces had launched \"all-out war\" against the DPR and LPR on 6 November. Ukrainian officials denied any offensive, and said that they would adhere to the Minsk Protocol. Despite this, battles continued across the Donbass, leaving many soldiers dead. Concurrently, separatist representatives requested a redraughting of Minsk Protocol, as a result of recurrent violations. Intermittent shelling of Donetsk renewed on 5 November. OSCE monitors reported on 8 November that there were large movements of unmarked heavy equipment in separatist-held territory. These movements included armoured personnel carriers, lorries, petrol tankers, and tanks, which were being manned and escorted by men in dark green uniforms without insignias. Ukrainian government spokesmen said that these were movements of Russian troops, but this could not be independently verified. Overnight into 9 November, intense shelling from both government and insurgent positions rocked Donetsk. OSCE chairman Didier Burkhalter said that he was \"very concerned\" about the \"resurgence of violence\", and stressed the importance of adhering to the Minsk Protocol. OSCE monitors observed more munitions convoys in separatist-held territory on 9 November. These included seventeen unmarked green ZiL lorries loaded with ammunition at Sverdlovsk, and seventeen similar Kamaz lorries towing howitzers at Zuhres. Another convoy of forty-three green military lories, some towing howitzers and rocket launchers, was observed by OSCE monitors in Donetsk on 11 November.\nFollowing the reports of these troop and equipment movements, NATO General Philip Breedlove said on 12 November that he could confirm that Russian troops and heavy equipment had crossed into Ukraine during the preceding week. In response, the Ukrainian Defence Ministry said that it was preparing for a renewed offensive by pro-Russian forces. Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov said \"there was and is no evidence\" to support NATO's statement.\n\nBy 2 December, at least 1,000 people had died during fighting in Donbass, since the signing of the Minsk Protocol in early September. A BBC report said that the ceasefire had been \"a fiction\". In light of this continued fighting, Ukrainian and separatist forces agreed to cease all military operations for a \"Day of Silence\" on 9 December. Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko said that he hoped that the \"Day of Silence\" would encourage the signing of a new peace deal. Whilst no new peace talks took place following the \"Day of Silence\", fighting between Ukrainian and separatist forces lessened significantly over the course of December. A report by the International Crisis Group stated that the late 2014 financial crisis in Russia, in tandem with American and European economic sanctions, deterred further advances by pro-Russian forces. The report also raised concerns about the potential for \"humanitarian catastrophe\" in separatist-controlled Donbass during the cold winter months, saying that the separatists were unable \"to provide basic services for the population\".\n\nIn line with the Minsk Protocol, more prisoner exchanges took place during the week of 21–27 December. More OSCE-organised talks were held in Minsk during that week, but they reached no result. In a press conference on 29 December, Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko said that the Minsk Protocol was becoming effective \"point by point\", and also said that \"progress\" was being made. Since the signing of the Protocol, over 1,500 people held by the separatists had been released as part of the prisoner exchanges. Whereas Ukrainian forces had been losing about 100 men per day prior to the Protocol, only about 200 had been killed in the four months since its signing. Poroshenko also said that he believed that conflict would only end if Russian troops were to leave Donbass.\n\nOSCE monitors reported a \"rise in tensions\" following New Year's Day. Numerous ceasefire violations were recorded, with most occurring near Donetsk International Airport. Infighting amongst insurgent groups broke out in Luhansk Oblast. In one incident, LPR militants said that they had killed Alexander Bednov, the leader of the pro-Russian \"Batman Battalion\", on 2 January 2015. LPR officials said that Bednov had been running an \"illegal prison\", and that he had engaged in torturing prisoners. In another incident, the leader of an Antratsyt-based Don Cossack militant group, Nikolai Kozitsyn, said that the territory controlled by his group, claimed by the Luhansk People's Republic, had become part of the \"Russian empire\", and that Russian president Vladimir Putin was its \"emperor\". An intercity bus stopped at a government checkpoint in Buhas was hit by a Grad rocket on 13 January, killing twelve civilians. Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko declared a day of national mourning. Buhas is south-west of Donetsk city.\n\nThe new terminal building at Donetsk International Airport, which had been a site of fighting between Ukrainian and separatist troops since May 2014, was captured by the DPR forces on 15 January. In the days prior to the capturing, the airport was heavily barraged by separatist rocket fire. DPR leader Alexander Zakharchenko stated that the capture of the airport was the first step toward regaining territory lost to Ukrainian forces during the middle of 2014. He said \"Let our countrymen hear this: We will not just give up our land. We will either take it back peacefully, or like that\", referring to the capture of the airport. Such an offensive by separatist forces would signal the complete breakdown of the frequently ignored Minsk Protocol, which established a buffer zone between Ukrainian-controlled and separatist-controlled territories. Ukrainian forces said that there had been \"no order to retreat\" from the airport, and DPR parliament chairman Andrey Purgin said that while DPR forces had gained control of the terminal buildings, fighting was ongoing because \"the Ukrainians have lots of places to hide\". Concurrently, a new round of Minsk talks, scheduled for 16 January by the Trilateral Contact Group on Ukraine, was called off after DPR and LPR leaders Alexander Zakharchenko and Igor Plotnitsky refused to attend.\n\nA government military operation at the weekend of 17–18 January resulted in Ukrainian forces recapturing most of Donetsk International Airport. According to Ukrainian NSDC representative Andriy Lysenko, the operation restored the lines of control established by the Minsk Protocol, and therefore did not constitute a violation of it. The operation caused fighting to move toward Donetsk proper, resulting in heavy shelling of residential areas of the city that border the airport. DPR authorities said that they halted government forces at Putylivskiy bridge, which connects the airport and the city proper. The bridge, which is strategically important, was destroyed during the fighting. OSCE monitors reported that shelling had caused heavy damage in the Donetsk residential districts of Kyivskyi, Kirovskyi, Petrovskyi, and Voroshilovskyi.\n\nUkrainian president Petro Poroshenko said on 21 January that Russia had deployed more than 9,000 soldiers and 500 tanks, artillery units, and armoured personnel carriers in Donbass. An article that appeared in \"The Daily Telegraph\" said that deployment appeared to be \"a response to Kiev's success\" in retaining control of Donetsk International Airport. On the same day, Ukrainian forces attempted to surround the airport in an attempt to push back the insurgents. As Ukrainian and DPR forces fought away from the airport, a group of insurgents stormed the first and third floors of the new terminal building. Ukrainian troops held out on the second floor of the building until the ceiling collapsed, killing several soldiers. The remaining Ukrainian forces were either captured, killed, or were forced to withdraw from the airport, allowing DPR forces to overrun it. According to one volunteer, thirty-seven Ukrainian troops died. \"The Daily Telegraph\" called the Ukrainian defeat at the airport \"devastating\".\nFollowing this victory, separatist forces began to attack Ukrainian forces along the line of control in Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts. Particularly heavy fighting broke out along the Siverskyi Donets River, to the north-west of Luhansk city. Separatist forces captured a Ukrainian checkpoint at Krymske, attacked other checkpoints in the area, and shelled villages near Shchastya. Separatist forces also began an assault on the government-controlled town of Debaltseve in north-eastern Donetsk Oblast, barraging it with artillery fire. In addition, the DPR launched an attack on Mariupol from Shyrokyne during the morning of 24 January. A hail of Grad rockets killed at least thirty people, and wounded another eighty-three. Heavy fighting continued in Debaltseve over the next week, resulting in many civllian and combatant casualties.\n\nFrench president François Hollande and German chancellor Angela Merkel put forth a new peace plan on 7 February. The Franco-German plan, drawn up after talks with Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko and Russian president Vladimir Putin, was seen as a revival of the Minsk Protocol. President Hollande said that the plan was the \"last chance\" for resolution of the conflict. The plan was put forth in response to American proposals to send armaments to the Ukrainian government, something that Chancellor Merkel said would only result in a worsening of the crisis. Fighting worsened in the run-up to the scheduled 11 February talks to discuss the Franco-German peace plan. DPR forces shelled the city of Kramatorsk on 10 February, which had last seen fighting in July 2014. The shelling targeted the city's Armed Forces headquarters, but also hit a nearby residential area. Seven people were killed, while twenty-six were wounded. In addition, the pro-government Azov Battalion launched an offensive to recapture separatist-controlled areas on the outskirts of Mariupol, centred on the village of Shyrokyne. Battalion commander Andriy Biletsky said his forces were moving toward Novoazovsk.\n\nThe scheduled summit at Minsk on 11 February 2015 resulted in the signing of a new package of peacemaking measures, called Minsk II, on 12 February. The plan, similar in content to the failed Minsk Protocol, called for an unconditional ceasefire, to begin on 15 February, amongst many other measures. Despite the signing of Minsk II, fighting continued around Debaltseve. DPR forces said that ceasefire did not apply to Debaltseve, and continued their offensive. Ukrainian forces were forced to withdraw from the Debaltseve area on 18 February, leaving separatist forces in control of it. In the week after the fall of Debaltseve to pro-Russian forces, fighting in the conflict zone abated. DPR and LPR forces began to withdraw artillery from the front lines as specified by Minsk II on 24 February, and Ukraine did so on 26 February. Ukraine reported that it had suffered no casualties during 24–26 February, something that had not occurred since early January 2015.\n\nMinor skirmishes continued into March, but the ceasefire was largely observed across the combat zone. Ukrainian and separatist forces had withdrawn most of the heavy weaponry specified in Minsk II by 10 March. Minor violations of the ceasefire continued throughout March and into April, though it continued to hold, and the numbers of casualties reported by both sides were greatly reduced. Fighting flared up again on 3 June 2015, when DPR insurgents launched an attack on government-controlled Marinka. Artillery and tanks were utilised in the battle there, which was described as the heaviest fighting since the signing of Minsk II.\n\nAn anti-war protest took place in Donetsk city on 15 June. The protest, the first of its kind in pro-Russian separatist-controlled territory, called for an end to the fighting in Donbass. About 500 people, who had gathered outside the RSA building, shouted, \"Stop the war!\", \"Give us back our houses, our homes are broken!\", and \"Get out of here!\" Specifically, protesters demanded that the separatists cease firing rocket attacks from residential areas on the outskirts of Donetsk. Whilst all parties to the conflict continued to support implementation of the measures specified by Minsk II, minor skirmishes continued on a daily basis through June and July 2015. Ukrainian troops suffered losses on a daily basis, and the ceasefire was labelled \"unworkable\" and \"impossible to implement\". Despite constant fighting and shelling along the line of contact, no territorial changes occurred. This state of stalemate led the war to be labelled a \"frozen conflict\".\n\nFollowing months of ceasefire violations, the Ukrainian government, the DPR and the LPR jointly agreed to halt all fighting, starting on 1 September 2015. This agreement coincided with the start of the school year in Ukraine, and was intended to allow for another attempt at implementing the points of Minsk II. By 12 September, German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said that the ceasefire had been holding, and that the parties to the conflict were \"very close\" to reaching an agreement to withdraw heavy weaponry from the line of contact, as specified by Minsk II. The area around Mariupol, including Shyrokyne, saw no fighting. According to Ukrainian Defence Minister Stepan Poltorak, violence in the Donbass had reached its lowest level since the start of the war. Whilst the ceasefire continued to hold into November, no final settlement to the conflict was agreed. \"The New York Times\" described this result as part of a \"a common arc of post-Soviet conflict, visible in the Georgian enclaves of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh in Azerbaijan and in Transnistria\", and said that separatist-controlled areas had become a \"frozen zone\", where people \"live in ruins, amid a ruined ideology, in the ruins of the old empire.\" This state of affairs continued into 2016, with a 15 April report by the BBC labelling the conflict as \"Europe's forgotten war\". Minor outbreaks of fighting continued along the line of contact, though no major territorial changes occurred.\n\nA new ceasefire came into effect on 1 September 2016, described at the time by BBC correspondent Tom Burridge as \"the first time there has been a true halt to fighting in 11 months\", and in 2018 described by TASS as the most successful ceasefire over the course of the conflict. Within days both sides accused each other of breaching the ceasefire, although they also stated that the ceasefire was widely observed. Nevertheless, on 6 September (2016), Ukrainian authorities reported the death of yet another soldier. In the first week of October, separatist forces reported that five of their number had been killed in fighting with government forces. Over the same period, four Ukrainian soldiers and volunteers were killed. On 24 December 2016, the tenth indefinite ceasefire since the start of the conflict came into effect; according to the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine, the Ukrainian government, and the separatists, the ceasefire was not observed.\n\n2016 was the first full calendar year of the conflict in which Ukraine lost no territories to the separatists. In addition, both the Ukrainian army (211 combat losses and 256 non-combat losses) and the local populace (13 in Ukrainian government-controlled areas) suffered many fewer casualties than in 2015. The new year, however, brought a new eruption of heavy fighting, starting on 29 January 2017, centred on the Ukrainian army-controlled city of Avdiivka.\n\nOn 18 February 2017, Russian president Vladimir Putin signed a decree whereby the Russian authorities would recognise personal and vehicle-registration documents issued by the DPR and LPR. The presidential decree referred to \"permanent residents of certain areas of Ukraine's Donetsk and Luhansk Oblasts\", without any mention of the self-proclaimed People's Republics. Ukrainian authorities decried the decree as being directly contradictory to the Minsk II agreement and that it \"legally recognised the quasi-state terrorist groups which cover Russia's occupation of part of Donbas.\" Secretary General of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) Lamberto Zannier stated on 19 February the decree \"implies...recognition of those who issue the documents, of course\" and that it would make it more difficult to hold a ceasefire.\n\nRussian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov, after meeting with his Ukrainian, German and French counterparts in Munich on 18 February, said that a ceasefire between Ukraine and the separatists had been agreed effective from 20 February 2017. But according to a Ukrainian army spokesman on 20 February 2017 separatists attacks continued, although he did state there was a \"significant reduction in military activity.\" On 21 February OSCE's Secretary General Zannier stated there were still a significant number of violations of the cease-fire and \"no evidence of the withdrawal of weapons\".\n\nOn 24 June the fourth truce attempt of 2017 collapsed within a few hours (according to both combatants).\n\nA \"back to school ceasefire\" to begin on 25 August 2017 also immediately collapsed when, on that very day, both combatants claimed that the other side had violated it.\n\nA \"Christmas ceasefire\" that was to be upheld starting 00:00 (Eastern European Time) on 23 December 2017 was immediately broken by DPR and LPR forces according to the Ukrainian army (reporting nine violations including the death of a Ukrainian soldier killed by an enemy sniper and claiming the Ukrainian army had not fired back). In turn, the DPR stated that the Ukrainian army had broken the truce, while the LPR Luganskinformcenter said the same, but also stated that, \"Ceasefire is generally observed.\"\n\nOn 27 December 2017, as part of the Minsk deal, a prisoner swap was conducted with 73 Ukrainian soldiers exchanged for over 200 separatists.\n\nOn 18 January 2018 the Ukrainian parliament passed a bill to regain control over separatist-held areas. The bill was adopted with support from 280 lawmakers in the 450-seat Verkhovna Rada (due to the War in Donbass and the 2014 Russian annexation of Crimea, only 423 of the parliament's 450 seats were elected in the previous election). The Russian government denounced the bill, calling it \"preparations for a new war\", and accused the Ukrainian government of violating the Minsk agreement. The law on the reintegration of Donbass labeled the republics of Donetsk and Luhansk as \"temporarily occupied territories\", while Russia was labeled as an \"aggressor\". The legislation granted President Poroshenko \"the right to use military force inside the country, without consent from the Ukrainian parliament\", which would include the reclaiming of Donbass. The bill supports a ban on trade and a transport blockade of the east that has been in place since 2017. Under the legislation, the only separatist-issued documents that Ukraine would recognize are birth and death certificates.\n\nA new, agreed by all fighting parties, ceasefire went into force on 5 March 2018. By 9 March the Ukrainian military claimed it was not being observed by the DNR and LNR forces who in turn claimed the same of the Ukrainian military.\n\nOn 26 March 2018 the Trilateral Contact Group on Ukraine agreed on a \"comprehensive, sustainable and unlimited ceasefire\" that was to start on 30 March 2018. It collapsed on its first day.\n\nOn 30 April 2018 Ukraine replaced its \"Anti-Terrorist Operation\" (ATO) by the Joint Forces Operation (JFO).\n\nOn 30 April 2018 the United States confirmed that it had delivered Javelin anti-tank missiles to Ukraine. Reportedly they will be used only in case of an all-out separatist assault.\n\nOn 28 June 2018 a new \"harvest\" \"comprehensive and indefinite ceasefire regime\" was agreed set to start on 1 July 2018. Within hours after its start both the rebels and the Ukrainian army accused each other of violating this truce.\n\nThe 29 August 2018 ceasefire also failed.<ref name=\"www.unian.info/war/10278909\">OSCE's Apakan: Political will needed for long-term sustainable solution to conflict in eastern Ukraine, UNIAN (28 September 2018)</ref>\n\nOn 31 August 2018 DPR leader Alexander Zakharchenko was killed as a result of an explosion in a restaurant.\n\nForces foreign and domestic have participated in the conflict in the Donbass. While Russia denies its troops are currently operating in Ukraine, OSCE observers have witnessed Russian troops operating in Ukraine identifying themselves as Russian servicemen. A paper released by the Royal United Services Institute estimated that 9,000–12,000 Russian troops had been deployed to parts of eastern Ukraine in early 2015, with 42,000 troops having been involved in the combined service rotation. On 17 December 2015 President Vladimir Putin stated in a response to a question about the detained Russian GRU agents held in Ukraine that Russia had \"people (in Ukraine) who work on resolving various issues there, including in the military sphere.\" However, he went on to state \"that doesn't mean there are regular Russian troops there.\" This was generally taken as an admission by Russia that its special forces were involved in the conflict. According to Alexander Borodai, 50,000 Russian citizens have fought for separatist forces.\n\nAs of February 2018 the number of separatist forces were estimated at around 31,000 out of which 80% (25,000) were Donbass residents, 15% (~5,000) were military contractors from Russia and other countries and 3% (900–1,000) were regular Russian armed forces personnel. This proportion has significantly changed from earlier years, with \"Russian command gradually filling up the military of the 'republics' with locals\"; the primary driver being that salaries are no longer attractive for contractors from Russia, but highly attractive as stable source of income in economically impaired separatist territories. Regular soldiers in Donbass are offered anything from 15,000 and officers 25,000 RUB, while in Russian army these respective earnings are 20,000 and 68,000 RUB. Russian forces still occupy most command positions as well as operate advanced weapons, such as electronic warfare units.\n\nOSCE monitors periodically record Russian military convoys crossing through the defunct border, usually overnight. On a number of occasions, OSCE monitoring drones were downed with electronic warfare units. OSCE statements and spot reports caused significant anger in Ukraine as it vaguely reports military \"convoys leaving and entering Ukraine on dirt roads in the middle of the night, in areas where there is no official crossing\" without explicitly mentioning Russian armed forces.\n\nIgor Girkin, a Russian citizen from Moscow who commanded the Donbass People's Militia in Sloviansk, denied Russian involvement in the insurgency. He said his unit was formed during the Crimean crisis, and that two-thirds of its members were Ukrainian citizens. Girkin also said that the Sloviansk insurgents had agreed to work with the leadership of the Donetsk People's Republic, despite some conflict between insurgent groups. According to a spokesman for the Donetsk People's Republic, the militants that occupied Sloviansk were \"an independent group...supporting the Donetsk protest\", while insurgents in Sloviansk and Kramatorsk identified themselves as members of Pavel Gubarev's Donbass People's Militia.\nThe group's forces at Sloviansk included some professional soldiers amongst their ranks, as well as retired veterans, civilians, and volunteers, while those in Donetsk have been confirmed to include former Berkut special police officers. When asked by \"The Sunday Telegraph\" where their weapons had come from, one veteran of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan nodded at the Russian flag flying from the police station and said: \"Look at that flag. You know which country that represents\". An insurgent commander in Donetsk, Pavel Paramonov, told journalists he was from Tula Oblast in Russia. In Horlivka, police who defected were commanded by a retired Lieutenant Colonel of the Russian Army, later identified as Igor Bezler. Former Soviet military veteran Vyacheslav Ponomarev, who declared himself mayor of Sloviansk, said that he appealed to old military friends to take part in the militia: \"When I called on my friends, practically all of whom are ex military, they came to our rescue, not only from Russia but also from Belarus, Kazakhstan and Moldova.\"\n\nA former separatist militant corroborated these stories in an interview with Radio Free Europe. He said that fighters, including some Cossack units, arrived from Russia to support the separatists. Another interview with an insurgent from Saint Petersburg was published in \"Gazeta\". He claimed to be fighting voluntarily as part of the \"Russian Imperialist Movement.\"\n\nIn late July, the local support for the militia within the city of Donetsk was estimated to be 70% by a local entrepreneur interviewed by \"Die Welt\". Armed groups affiliated with the Luhansk People's Republic were merged with the Donbass People's Militia on 16 September to form the \"United Armed Forces of Novorossiya\".\n\nThe Army of the South-East (, \"Armiya Yugo-Vostoka\") is a pro-Russian militant group that occupied various buildings in Luhansk Oblast. According to \"The Guardian\", their personnel include former members of the disbanded Berkut special police. They were affiliated with the Luhansk People's Republic, but were merged with the Donbass People's Militia on 16 September to form the United Armed Forces of Novorossiya.\nThe Russian Orthodox Army (, \"Russkaya pravoslavnaya armiya\"), a pro-Russian insurgent group in Ukraine, originated in May 2014 as part of the insurgency. It reportedly had 100 members at the time of its founding, including locals and Russian volunteers. As fighting between separatists and the Ukrainian government worsened in Donbass, membership rose to 350, and later to 4,000.\nNotable engagements of the ROA include the June 2014 skirmishes in Mariupol and Amvrosiivka Raion. The headquarters of the ROA is located in an occupied Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) building in Donetsk city. Members swore allegiance to Igor Girkin (\"Strelkov\"), insurgent and Minister of Defence of the self-declared Donetsk People's Republic. According to the Defence Ministry of Ukraine, the ROA has been in conflict with another pro-Russian militia, the Vostok Battalion, which accused the ROA of looting, and of avoiding combat.\n\nThe Vostok Battalion (, ; lit. \"East Battalion\") was formed in early May 2014. It is commanded by Alexander Khodakovsky, a defector from the Security Service of Ukraine. Khodakovsky is the chief of the DPR's security service, and of the Patriotic Forces of Donbass, an insurgent battalion.\n\nKhodakovsky said that the \"overwhelming majority\" of his men came from eastern Ukraine. According to Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Vostok reportedly includes former members of the original Vostok Battalion, a special forces unit of the Russian intelligence directorate (GRU) that participated in the Second Chechen and Russo-Georgian Wars. The original battalion was incorporated in 2009 into a Russian Defence Ministry reserve unit that is based in Chechnya. Khodakovsky said he had about 1,000 men at his disposal, and that more \"volunteers\" with experience in the Russian security sector were expected to join the battalion. A report by Radio Free Europe said that there were suspicions that the battalion was either created directly by the GRU, or that it was at least sanctioned by it. The battalion includes both fighters from Russia and from Ukraine. A BBC News report said that the battalion was composed largely of untrained locals from eastern Ukraine, with a smattering of Russian volunteers. A number of the Vostok insurgents were killed at the First Battle of Donetsk Airport. Thirty bodies were repatriated to Russia after the fighting. Some of the members said they received salaries of 100 US dollars a week, though they maintained that were only volunteers. An Armenian volunteer in the unit said the battalion was composed of Slavs, and that roughly 80% of militants were from Russia.\n\nBy late February 2015, 110 members of the battalion had been killed and 172 wounded in the conflict.\n\nIn May 2014, then Ukrainian president Oleksandr Turchynov stated that numerous Ukrainian military and security personnel had joined the separatists, alongside stolen Ukrainian military equipment. In October 2014, Internal Affairs minister Arsen Avakov told journalists that about 15,000 Ukrainian policemen in Luhansk and Donetsk oblasts had defected to the separatists.\n\nSome identified maverick neo-Cossack volunteers, particularly Don Cossacks who live on both sides of the border, are participants in the war, along with some self-styled neo-Cossack groups. Several of these Cossacks formed a paramilitary unit called the 'Terek Wolves Sotnia', a reference to a detachment of White emigre Cossacks that fought against the Soviet Union during the Second World War. Prominent fighters include Alexander \"Boogeyman\" Mozhaev (a Russian military veteran from Belorechensk) and the unit's commander, Evgeny Ponomarev. Ponomarev was killed in August 2014.\nAlthough Cossack units have been prohibited from crossing the Russian border into Ukraine en masse, it has been reported that Russian elements tacitly support the individual fighters in crossing the border into Ukraine. The Cossacks claim that it is their faith in Cossack brotherhood, Russian imperialism, and the Russian Orthodox Church that has driven them to take part in the insurgency with the aim of conquering what they perceive as \"historically Russian lands.\" Mozhaev also stated that some of the more extreme views of the Cossacks include destroying \"the Jew-Masons,\" who they claim have been \"fomenting disorder all over the world\" and \"causing us, the common Orthodox Christian folk, to suffer.\" On 25 May, the SBU arrested 13 Russian Cossacks in Luhansk.\n\nThe Foreign Affairs ministry of Ukraine said that the presence of foreign soldiers amounted to \"undisguised aggression\" from Russia, and \"the export of Russian terrorism to our country\". \"There are grounds to affirm that Russian terrorists funnelled on to the territory of Ukraine are being organised and financed through the direct control of the Kremlin and Russian special forces,\" the ministry said. To date, reports and interviews have shown the presence of Chechen, Ossetian, Tajik, Afghan, Armenian, and various Russian paramilitary forces operating in Ukraine.\n\nChechen paramilitaries were spotted in Sloviansk on 5 May 2014. Chechen president Ramzan Kadyrov threatened on 7 May that he would \"send tens of thousands of Chechen volunteers to southern and eastern Ukraine if the junta in Kiev continued its punitive operations.\" It was reported that Kadyrov engaged in an aggressive recruitment campaign in Chechnya for this operation, and that there were recruitment centres for it in Grozny, Achkhoy-Martan, Znamenskoye, and Gudermes. The Kavkazcenter, the official website of the North Caucasus Islamic insurgency, reported that Chechen authorities had opened recruiting offices for volunteers wishing to fight in Ukraine, and that those offices had suddenly closed.\nFive lorries crossed the Ukraine-Russia border carrying militants aboard on 24 May, with some reports suggesting among the militants were veteran Chechen soldiers. On the following day, the Vostok Battalion arrived in Donetsk in a convoy of eight lorries, each filled with twenty soldiers. Several of the soldiers looked Chechen, spoke the Chechen language, and said that they were from Chechnya. Two insurgents told CNN reporters that these were Chechen volunteers.\n\nRamzan Kadyrov denied knowledge of the presence Chechen troops in Ukraine, but a separatist commander later confirmed that Chechens and militants of other ethnicities fought for the Donetsk People's Militia. In the aftermath of the First Battle of Donetsk Airport, local authorities said that some wounded militants were Chechens from Grozny and Gudermes. One Donetsk resident said that the presence of Chechen fighters showed \"that this war is not clean. It is artificially created. If this is an uprising by the Donetsk People's Republic, what are foreigners doing here?\"\n\nChechen militants interviewed by the \"Financial Times\" and \"Vice News\" said that they became involved in the conflict on the orders of the Chechen president. President Kadyrov strongly denied these reports on 1 June. In his statement, he said that there were \"74,000 Chechens who are willing to go to bring order to the territory of Ukraine\", and that he would not send them to Donetsk, but to Kiev. As of May 2015, majority of previously pro-Russian Chechen paramilitaries exited the conflict, because of the two known incidents with Zakharchenko and his people, according to Akhmed Zakayev.\n\nStarting on 4 May 2014, the United Ossetia Party and the Union of Paratroopers in the pro-Russian breakaway Republic of South Ossetia announced a recruitment drive meant to send veterans of the Georgian-Ossetian conflict to protect \"the peaceful population of Ukraine's southeast\". Some videos issued by an Ossetian militant group indicated that they were operating in Donetsk. Donbass insurgents interviewed on 27 May admitted that there were sixteen fighters from Ossetia operating around Donetsk for at least two months prior.\nHead of the State Border Guard of Ukraine Mykola Lytvyn said that officials reports indicated the presence of Abkhaz militants as well. Militants from North and South Ossetia were open about their presence in Donbass in June. One militant named Oleg, part of the Vostok Battalion, told reporters \"In 2008 they were killing us and the Russians saved us. I came here to pay my dues to them\".\n\nThere are reports that volunteers from France, Germany, the United States, Italy, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Spain, Turkey and other countries have fought on the insurgent side. There are at least 200 insurgent-affiliated Serbian volunteers fighting in Ukraine. They have their own combat unit, named after Jovan Šević, including 45 members of the Chetnik movement, led by Bratislav Živković. Around twenty Hungarians have formed their own unit named Legion of Saint Stephen. In February 2015, Spanish police arrested eight Spaniards suspected of fighting alongside pro-Russian militants. Commenting on other foreign fighters, the suspects said that \"Half of them are communists and the other half are Nazis. [...] We all want the same: social justice and the liberation of Russia from the Ukrainian invasion.\" The German newspaper \"Welt am Sonntag\" reported that more than 100 German citizens were fighting alongside pro-Russian militias in eastern Ukraine. Most of them were ethnic Germans from the former Soviet republics, and some had served in the Bundeswehr. According to the paper, a 33-year-old German citizen originally from Kazakhstan was killed in action by shrapnel during the battle of Debaltsevo, on 12 February 2015. Kazakhstan has given prison sentences of three to five years to its citizens who have fought for pro-Russian militias in Ukraine. In February 2016, Moldova stated that pro-Russian forces in Ukraine had recruited dozens of its citizens with the offer of money, with one individual saying he had been promised $3,000 a month. Two Moldovan mercenaries received three-year prison sentences and eight others were under investigation. From late 2014 until late 2017 Serbia has opened 45 cases against Serbian mercenaries who had been fighting in the War in Donbass and in other military conflicts abroad. According to media reports by late 2017 only a few dozen Serbs were then fighting in Ukraine and Syria.\n\nThe Armed Forces of Ukraine are the primary military force of Ukraine, and have taken a leading role in countering DPR and LPR forces. The Armed Forces have been widely criticised for their poor equipment and inept leadership, forcing Internal Affairs Ministry forces like the National Guard and the territorial defence battalions to take on the brunt of the fighting.\n\nFollowing its independence from the Soviet Union in 1991, Ukraine inherited all Soviet military equipment and formations that had been stationed on its territory. Over the years preceding the start of hostilities in Donbass, the Armed Forces were systematically downsized, and became largely dilapidated. Soviet weaponry was not replaced or upgraded, leaving the Armed Forces with outdated and poorly maintained equipment. As an example, the Soviet military units never utilised ballistic vests, and hence, when the war in Donbass started, the Armed Forces of Ukraine had none. Whilst there is a vibrant defence industry in Ukraine, the equipment it produces is for export, and had not been used to equip the Armed Forces prior to the war. Amidst the Crimean Crisis on 11 March 2014, then Defence Minister Ihor Tenyukh said that \"de facto only 6,000 [soldiers] are in combat readiness\". According to a report by \"The Ukrainian Week\", 90–95% of the Armed Forces' equipment in July 2014 was outdated or in poor repair. In addition, professional soldiers were in short supply, forcing conscripts and volunteers to fill battalions.\n\nTo counter equipment shortages, a powerful civil volunteer movement appeared. Teams of volunteers established crowdfunding centres that provide the soldiers with diverse support: from food and medicines to equipment like bulletproof vests, spaced armour, thermographic cameras and unmanned aerial vehicles. Other volunteers help the injured soldiers or search captives and the killed ones. Such volunteer centres work in all large cities and many small settlements of Ukraine, except those which aren't controlled by government.\n\nAs of 2016, the Army was struggling to recruit conscript servicemen, due to significant evasion of conscription, to replace demobilising soldiers including volunteers. This followed negative publicity about nutrition and equipment deficiencies in the conflict zone. By mid-April 2016, 127,363 soldiers and volunteers had received veteran status.\n\nThe National Guard of Ukraine was re-established on 13 March 2014, amidst rising tensions in Ukraine during the Crimean crisis. It is a part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It was re-established to replace the Internal Troops of Ukraine, and is based on that force.\n\nThe Ministry of Internal Affairs is commonly known as the \"militsiya\", and is the primary police force in Ukraine. It is led by the Internal Affairs Minister, Arsen Avakov, a key figure in leading the counter-insurgency operations in the Donbass.\n\nThe government military operation to counter DPR and LPR forces in the Donbass is called the \"Anti-Terrorist Operation\" (ATO). It is led by the Anti-Terrorist Centre, a division of the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU). The SBU is the main intelligence service of Ukraine.\n\nAt least fifty pro-Ukrainian volunteer units have been formed and fought against the Donbass People's Militia and other insurgent groups. These forces include the Donbas Battalion, Azov Battalion, Kharkiv Battalion, and Oleh Lyashko's militia. Some of these units work under contract with the National Guard of Ukraine.\nThese units took active participation in the military campaign. For example, the town of Shchastya in Luhansk Oblast was taken by the Aidar Battalion on 9 July, and Azov Battalion, together with other units, recaptured Mariupol from pro-Russian separatists forces in June 2014.\n\nSome of the volunteer battalions belong to Right Sector. It lost twelve fighters when it was ambushed outside Donetsk in August 2014. Right Sector leader Dmytro Yarosh vowed his group would avenge the deaths.\n\nForeign fighters mainly from Belarus, Georgia and Russia (about 100 men from each country) have joined the volunteer battalions, as well as volunteers from the United States, France, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Georgia, Poland, Spain, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Croatia, Italy and Canada. The Foreign Ministry of Russia asked the governments of Sweden, Finland, the Baltic states, and France to conduct a thorough investigation into reports of mercenaries from their countries serving Ukrainian forces, following a story in the Italian newspaper \"Il Giornale\".\n\nChechen opponents of the Russian government, including Chechen military commander Isa Munayev, were fighting pro-Russian separatists in Ukraine for the Ukrainian government.\n\nAt least three volunteer battalions composed mostly of people from the Caucasus and Central Asia are fighting against pro-Russian separatists. They include Muslims from states that were part of the Soviet Union, including Uzbeks, Balkars and Crimean Tatars.\n\nFollowing its annexation of Crimea, Russia intervened in different ways throughout the war in the Donbass region. Reports and statements by the US State Department repeatedly accused Russia of orchestrating the April unrest across eastern and southern Ukraine. Russia denied these reports. As the unrest escalated into a war in Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts, Russia supplied arms, armoured vehicles, tanks, and other equipment to the forces of the DPR and LPR. A significant number of Russian citizens and military men have fought in the war as volunteers, something that the leaders of the DPR and LPR admitted. Recruitment for Donbass insurgent groups was performed openly in Russian cities, using private and military facilities. Reports of direct Russian military involvement culminated on 25 August, when the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) said that it captured a group of Russian paratroopers on active service in Ukrainian territory. The SBU released photographs of them, and their names. On the following day, the Russian Defence Ministry said these soldiers crossed the border \"by accident\". On May 2015 a Russian major was detained near Donetsk while driving an ammunition truck, there was no comment from Russian military, the major was later exchanged for captured Ukrainian soldiers. In May 2015 two suspected Russian GRU agents were detained by Ukrainian forces, Russia's Ministry of Defense stated the men were former soldiers who were not on active duty at the time of capture. The two men were later exchanged for captured Ukrainian pilot and politician Nadiya Savchenko In September 2015 Ukraine's border guards detained 2 Russian internal troops when they crossed the border in Ukraine's Luhansk oblast, the Russian servicemen stated they were lost and crossed the border by accident, with the Russian Military of Defense accusing Ukraine's forces of crossing into the nearby Russian village and abducting the servicemen.\nA new front in the war was opened on 27 August 2014. Vast amounts of military equipment and troops crossed the border from Russia into southern Donetsk Oblast, an area previously controlled by the Ukrainian government. Western officials described this new offensive as a \"stealth invasion\" by the Russian Federation. US State Department spokesman Jen Psaki said that \"these incursions indicate a Russian-directed counteroffensive is likely underway\", and Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko said \"An invasion of Russian forces has taken place\". NATO commander Brig. Gen. Nico Tak said on 28 August 2014 that \"well over\" 1,000 Russian soldiers were operating in the Donbass conflict zone. During the week prior to the \"invasion\", Russia had been shelling Ukrainian units from across the border, though instances of cross-border shelling from Russia had been reported since mid-July. At the time, Russian government spokesmen denied these reports. An August 2014 survey by the Levada Center reported that only 13% of those Russians polled would support the Russian government in an open war with Ukraine.\n\nReports of Russian involvement continued into early 2015. Russian forces and equipment participated in the Second Battle of Donetsk Airport and the Battle of Debaltseve. A report released by the Royal United Services Institute in March 2015 said that \"the presence of large numbers of Russian troops on Ukrainian sovereign territory\" had become a \"permanent feature\" of the war in Donbass since August 2014. In a press conference on 17 December 2015, Russian president Vladimir Putin acknowledged for the first time that there had been a Russian military presence in the Donbass region, though he said that this did not mean that there were \"Russian troops\" there.\n\nIn a February 2017 interview with Ukrayinska Pravda Deputy Head of the OSCE monitoring mission in Ukraine Alexander Hug stated that he and other monitors had met separatists soldiers who claimed that they were soldiers of units of the Russian army.\n\nIn August 2018, OSCE drone has for the first time filmed two large military convoys crossing at night the border between Donbass and Russia through an unguarded dirt track near Manych village. Such crossings were reported by Ukraine and denied by Russia from the beginning of the conflict. Also for the first time, it has spotted four Russian advanced electronic warfare systems on the separatist territory near Chornukhyne. \n\nThe United Nations observed an \"alarming deterioration\" in human rights in territory held by insurgents affiliated with the Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic. The UN reported growing lawlessness in the region, documenting cases of targeted killings, torture, and abduction, primarily carried out by the forces of the Donetsk People's Republic. The UN also reported threats against, attacks on, and abductions of journalists and international observers, as well as the beatings and attacks on supporters of Ukrainian unity. Russia criticised these reports, and said that they were \"politically motivated\". A report by Human Rights Watch said \"Anti-Kiev forces in eastern Ukraine are abducting, attacking, and harassing people they suspect of supporting the Ukrainian government or consider undesirable...anti-Kiev insurgents are using beatings and kidnappings to send the message that anyone who doesn't support them had better shut up or leave\". There were also multiple instances of beatings, abductions, and possible executions of local residents by Ukrainian troops, such as Oleh Lyashko's militia and the Aidar territorial defence battalion. Amnesty International noted that pro-Kiev volunteer battalions are increasingly blocking humanitarian aid into eastern Ukraine. In August, Igor Druz, a senior advisor to pro-Russian insurgent commander Igor Girkin, said that \"On several occasions, in a state of emergency, we have carried out executions by shooting to prevent chaos. As a result, our troops, the ones who have pulled out of Sloviansk, are highly disciplined\". By the end of 2015, there had been 79 places on the combined DPR and LPR territory where abducted civilians and prisoners of war.\n\nA report by the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) released on 28 July 2014 said that based on \"conservative estimates\", at least 1,129 civilians had been killed since mid-April during the fighting, and at least 3,442 had been wounded. In addition, the report found that at least 750 million US dollars worth of damage has been done to property and infrastructure in Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts. Human Rights Watch said that Ukrainian government forces, pro-government paramilitaries, and the insurgents had used unguided Grad rockets in attacks on civilian areas, stating that \"The use of indiscriminate rockets in populated areas violates international humanitarian law, or the laws of war, and may amount to war crimes\". \"The New York Times\" reported that the high rate of civilian deaths had \"left the population in eastern Ukraine embittered toward Ukraine's pro-Western government\", and that this sentiment helped to \"spur recruitment\" for the insurgents. By early January 2015, the number of deaths caused by the war had risen to 4,707, despite the signing of the Minsk Protocol in early September 2014.\n\nBy early August 2014, at least 730,000 had fled fighting in the Donbass and left for Russia. This number, much larger than earlier estimates, was given by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The number of internal refugees rose to 117,000. By the start of September, after a sharp escalation over the course of August, the number of people displaced from Donbass within Ukraine more than doubled to 260,000. The number of refugees that fled from Donbass to Russia rose to 814,000. Despite two months of a shaky ceasefire established by the Minsk Protocol, the number of refugees displaced from Donbass in Ukraine escalated sharply to 466,829 in mid November.\n\nBy April 2015, the war had caused at least 1.3 million people to become internally displaced within Ukraine. In addition, more than 800,000 people had fled Ukraine, with over 659,143 to Russia, 81,100 to Belarus, and thousands more to other countries.\n\nAccording to another report by the UN OHCHR, over 3 million people continued to live in the Donbass conflict zone as of March 2016. This was said to include 2.7 million who lived in DPR and LPR-controlled areas, and 200,000 in Ukrainian-controlled areas adjacent to the line of contact. In addition, the Ukrainian government was said to have registered a total of 1.6 million internally displaced people within Ukraine who had fled the conflict. Over 1 million were reported to have sought asylum elsewhere, with most having gone to Russia. The report also said that people that lived in separatist-controlled areas were experiencing \"complete absence of rule of law, reports of arbitrary detention, torture and incommunicado detention, and no access to real redress mechanisms\".\n\nBy November 2017, the UN had identified 1.8 million internally displaced and conflict-affected persons in Ukraine, while another 427,240 who had sought asylum or refugee status in the Russian Federation, plus 11,230 in Italy, 10,495 in Germany, 8,380 in Spain, and 4,595 in Poland.\n\nThe number of confirmed deaths caused by the war was nearly 10,500 as of early June 2018. By mid-August 2018, the UN confirmed 3,035 civilians had been killed in the conflict. 312 of the civilian deaths were foreigners: 298 passengers and crew of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, 11 Russian journalists, an Italian journalist, one Russian civilian killed in cross-border shelling and a Lithuanian diplomat.\n\nUkrainian government forces have lost a confirmed total of 4,151 killed servicemen by mid-November 2018, including 190 foreign-born Ukrainian citizens and 13 foreigners. Another 123 Ukrainian soldiers were missing.\n\nPro-Russian sources claimed Ukrainian forces had: 10,000 killed, 20,000 wounded and 13,500 deserted or missing, by late June 2015.\n\nThe separatists reported that they had lost 1,400 men at most as of the beginning of February 2015. The pro-Russian death toll was updated to 4,412, per the \"Cargo 200\" NGO, by the end of July 2018. \"Cargo 200\" reported 1,479 of the dead they documented were Russian citizens.\n\nUkraine claimed 7,577–14,600 separatists had been killed and 12,000 missing during the fighting as of early 2015. They also claimed an additional 103 Russian servicemen were killed between January and April 2016.\n\nAn image of a reported separatist graveyard in Donetsk in late February 2015, showed number plates running up to at least 2,213. In late August 2015, according to a reported \"leak\" by a Russian news site, Business Life (Delovaya Zhizn), 2,000 Russian soldiers had been killed in Ukraine by 1 February 2015. The US Department of State reported that by early March 2015, 400–500 Russian soldiers had died.\n\nBy early November 2018, DPR separatist authorities reported that a total of 4,715 separatists and civilians had been killed in the Donetsk region, while the LPR reported 1,328 people had died in the Luhansk region by January 2018.\n\nMany observers have asked both the Ukrainian government and the insurgents to seek peace, and ease tensions in Donetsk and Luhansk.\n – NATO published a statement on the war in Donbass and the Crimean Crisis in August 2014. It attempted to debunk the Russian government's accusations against the Ukrainian government, and also other statements made by Russia to justify its presence in Ukraine. According to the statement, Russia attempted to \"divert attention away from its actions\" and \"levelled a series of accusations against NATO which are based on misrepresentations of the facts\". It also said that Russia \"made baseless attacks on the legitimacy of the Ukrainian authorities and has used force to seize part of Ukraine's territory\". In response to the unauthorised entry of the Russian humanitarian convoy on 22 August, NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen stated that this incident could \"only deepen the crisis in the region, which Russia itself has created and has continued to fuel. The disregard of international humanitarian principles raises further questions about whether the true purpose of the aid convoy is to support civilians or to resupply armed separatists\". Late in August, NATO generals met and revised their assessment of the military situation in Donbass. They said that, from the Ukrainian government's point of view, the war is already lost. It was anticipated that the late-August offensive in southern Donetsk Oblast could be used to create a Russian land corridor to Crimea, consolidating the illegal annexation of the peninsula. NATO general Philip Breedlove said on 20 September that the ceasefire implemented as part of the Minsk Protocol was \"a ceasefire in name only\", and criticised Russia for allowing men and equipment to flow freely across its border into Donbass.\n\n – The Russian Foreign Ministry accused Ukrainian authorities of \"blaming\" the Russian government for all its troubles and stated \"Ukrainian people want to get a clear answer from Kiev to all their questions. It's time to listen to these legal claims\". It also stated it was \"carefully observing\" events in the east and south of Ukraine, and again called for \"real constitutional reform\" that would turn Ukraine into a federation. In a 7 April opinion piece that appeared in \"The Guardian\", Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov wrote that it was Europe and the United States, and not Russia, that was guilty of destabilising Ukraine and that \"Russia is doing all it can to promote early stabilisation in Ukraine\". The Russian Foreign Ministry issued a stern condemnation of the \"criminal order\" by Kiev for armed aggression against Donetsk: \"The Kiev authorities, who self-proclaimed themselves as a result of a coup, have embarked on the violent military suppression of the protests,\" demanding that \"the Maidan henchmen, who overthrew the legitimate president, to immediately stop the war against their own people, to fulfill all the obligations under the Agreement of 21 February.\" Russian president Vladimir Putin compared the siege of the DPR and LPR-controlled cities of Donetsk and Luhansk to the Siege of Leningrad during the Second World War: \"Sadly, it reminds me of World War II, when German fascist forces surrounded our cities, like Leningrad, and shelled population centres and their residents\".\n\n – US Secretary of State John Kerry said on 7 April 2014 that the events \"did not appear to be spontaneous\" and called on Russia to \"publicly disavow the activities of separatists, saboteurs and provocateurs\" in a phone call to his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov. A spokeswoman for the US National Security Council noted that the separatists appeared to be supported by Russia. \"We saw similar so-called protest activities in Crimea before Russia's purported annexation,\" she said in a statement, adding: \"We call on President (Vladimir) Putin and his government to cease all efforts to destabilize Ukraine, and we caution against further military intervention.\" American ambassador to Ukraine Geoffrey R. Pyatt characterised the pro-Russian insurgents as \"terrorists\". The US government is sending military advisors to Ukraine to aid the Ukrainian government in its fight against the insurgents. In April, the US Defence Department shipped a 7 million US dollar package of non-lethal military equipment to the Ukrainian forces. Plans for another 8 million dollar aid package were announced on 1 August 2014. The package was meant to include armoured personnel carriers, goods and patrol vehicles, binoculars, night vision goggles and small patrol boats. On the same day, the Defence Department also proposed a $19 million aid package to help train the National Guard of Ukraine. This proposal required congressional approval, and would come into effect in 2015. It had been announced in July that a group of Defence Department specialists in strategy and policy would visit Kiev to evaluate the military needs of the Ukrainian government. On 8 September 2014, \"The New York Times\" reported that only a portion of the initial non-lethal aid package had actually arrived in Ukraine. While this report cited concerns about provoking escalation in the region as the reason for the delay, a 13 September 2014 report by \"The Globe and Mail\" cited various sources that indicated that both the American package and a $200 million Canadian military aid package were delayed by concerns about diversion of saleable equipment due to corruption among Ukrainian officials. On 11 March 2015, the American government said it would send an additional 75 million US dollars worth of non-lethal aid to Ukraine. This included radios, first-aid kits, surveillance drones, counter-mortar radar systems, military ambulances, 30 armoured Humvees and 300 unarmoured Humvees. In March 2016, US Assistant Secretary of State Victoria Nuland stated that a total of 266 million dollars was spent on non-lethal aid to Ukraine. She also said that nearly 1,200 Ukrainian soldiers and 750 National Guard members had been trained by American military personnel.\n\n – Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko pledged revenge against pro-Russian separatists after 19 Ukrainian soldiers were killed in a rocket attack. \"Militants will pay hundreds of their lives for each life of our servicemen. Not a single terrorist will avoid responsibility,\" he said.\n\nA poll of the Ukrainian public, excluding Russian-annexed Crimea, was taken by the International Republican Institute from 12–25 September 2014. 89% of those polled opposed Russian intervention in Ukraine. As broken down by region, 78% of those polled from Eastern Ukraine (including Dnipropetrovsk Oblast) opposed said intervention, along with 89% in Southern Ukraine, 93% in Central Ukraine, and 99% in Western Ukraine. As broken down by native language, 79% of Russian speakers and 95% of Ukrainian speakers opposed the intervention. 80% of those polled said that Ukraine should remain a unitary country. 56% of those polled said that Russia should pay for the reconstruction of the Donbass, whereas 32% said Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts should pay. 59% of those polled said that they supported the government military operation in Donbass, whereas 33% said that they opposed it. 73% of respondents said that the war in Donbass was one of the three most important issues facing Ukraine.\n\nA poll conducted by the same institute in 2017 shows that an overwhelming majority of Ukrainians believe that the separatist republics should remain as part of Ukraine. The survey contained an over sample of respondents from the Ukrainian-controlled areas of the Donbass, a majority of whom also affirmed their wish for the entire region to stay in Ukraine. The survey results showed that 80% of Ukrainians nationally and 73% of people living in the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts supported that the separatist-controlled areas should remain part of Ukraine. Around 60% of the people polled did not believe Ukraine is doing enough to regain the lost territories because of the Minsk agreements.\n\nNATO considers the conflict a war with Russian irregulars, and others consider it to be a war between Russian proxies and Ukraine. The International Committee of the Red Cross described the events in the Donbass region as a \"non-international armed conflict\". Some news agencies, such as the Information Telegraph Agency of Russia and Reuters, interpreted this statement as meaning that Ukraine was in a state of \"civil war\". From early September 2014, Amnesty International said that it considered the war to be \"international\", as opposed to \"non-international\". Secretary General of Amnesty International Salil Shetty said that \"satellite images, coupled with reports of Russian troops captured inside Ukraine and eyewitness accounts of Russian troops and military vehicles rolling across the border leave no doubt that this is now an international armed conflict\". The conflict has also been classified as a \"hybrid war\" waged by Russia against Ukraine.\n\nChairman of the Verkhovna Rada Oleksandr Turchynov said that he considered the conflict a direct war with Russia. According to Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko, the war will be known in history of Ukraine as the \"Patriotic War\".\n\nAccording to a VTSIOM survey taken in August 2014, 59% of the Russian citizens polled viewed the war in Donbass as a civil war. Most of those polled said that direct war with Ukraine was either \"absolutely impossible\" or \"extremely unlikely\". 28% said that such a conflict could happen in the future.\n\nUntil early 2015, the European Union tended to label the participants of the conflict as \"foreign armed formations\" or Russia-supported separatists. After the delivery of an IntCen classified report by the end of January 2015, the official EU documents started labelling them openly as \"Russian troops in Ukraine\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43114654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43114654", "title": "Worldwide Atrocities Dataset", "text": "Worldwide Atrocities Dataset\n\nThe Worldwide Atrocities Dataset is a dataset collected by the Computational Event Data System at Pennsylvania State University and sponsored by the Political Instability Task Force (PITF) that is, in turn, funded by the Central Intelligence Agency in the United States.\n\nUnlike other datasets such as the Global Database of Events, Language, and Tone (GDELT), Integrated Conflict Early Warning System (ICEWS), data for the Worldwide Atrocities Dataset is entered and coded manually. Data is available for download in two files:\n\n\nIn addition to the datasets, a coding manual is available for download.\n\nThe Worldwide Atrocities Dataset has been referenced in academic research on the impact of climate change on violence in Africa. It has also been referenced alongside the ACLED dataset and the Peacekeeping Operations Locations and Event Dataset in a paper on the geography of conflict by Wiedmann and Kuse (2009). A 2011 paper by Gold and Haar used the Worldwide Atrocities Dataset to understand the spatial dimension of refugee flows.\n\nPolitical scientist and forecasting expert Jay Ulfelder called the Worldwide Atrocities Dataset a \"useful data set on political violence that almost no one is using.\" It was also referenced by Patrick Meier while reviewing a paper that used the dataset.\n"}
{"id": "5832149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5832149", "title": "Yemeni unification", "text": "Yemeni unification\n\nYemeni unification took place on May 22, 1990, when the area of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (also known as South Yemen) was united with the Yemen Arab Republic (also known as North Yemen), forming the Republic of Yemen (known as simply Yemen).\n\nNorth Yemen became a state after the collapse of the Ottoman Empire in November 1918. Aden, in South Yemen, was administered as part of British India, and in 1937 became a British colony in its own right. The larger part of South Yemen was a British protectorate, effectively under colonial control. In one of the many proxy conflicts of the Cold War, a South Yemeni insurgency (with the support and backing of the Soviet Union) led by two nationalist parties revolted, causing the United Kingdom to first unify the area and in 1967 to withdraw from its former colony.\n\nFollowing the North Yemen Civil War, the north established a republican government that included tribal representatives. It enjoyed modest oil revenues and remittances from its citizens working in the oil-rich Arab states of the Persian Gulf. Its population in the 1980s was estimated at 12 million as opposed to 3 million in South Yemen. \n\nSouth Yemen developed as a communist, mostly secular society ruled first by the National Liberation Front, which later morphed into the ruling Yemen Socialist Party. The only avowedly communist nation in the Middle East, South Yemen received significant foreign aid and other assistance from the USSR.\n\nIn October 1972, fighting erupted between north and south; North Yemen was supplied by Saudi Arabia while South Yemen was supplied by the USSR. Fighting was short-lived and the conflict led to the October 28, 1972 Cairo Agreement, which set forth a plan to unify the two countries.\n\nFighting broke out again in February and March 1979, with South Yemen allegedly supplying aid to rebels in the north through the National Democratic Front and crossing the border. Southern forces made it as far as the city of Taizz before withdrawing. Again, North Yemen was supported by anti-Communist Saudi Arabia and Taiwan (). This conflict was also short-lived.\n\nIn the late 1980s, oil exploration near the border between the two nations, Ma'rib in North Yemen and the Shabwah Governorate in the South, spurred interest in developing agreements to exploit resources there and lift both nations' economies. In May 1988, the two governments came to an understanding that considerably reduced tensions, including agreements to renew discussions concerning unification, to establish a joint oil exploration area along their undefined border, now called the Joint Investment Area, by the Hunt Oil Company and Exxon. The same month, they formed the Yemeni Company for Investment in Mineral and Oil Resources (YCIMOR). In November 1989, Ali Abdullah Saleh of North Yemen and Ali Salim al-Beidh of South Yemen jointly accepted a draft unity constitution originally drawn up in 1981, which included a demilitarized border and border passage by Yemenis on the sole basis of a national identification card, as well as a capital city in Sana'a.\n\nThe Republic of Yemen was declared on 22 May 1990. Ali Abdullah Saleh of the north became Head of State, and Ali Salim al-Beidh of the south became Head of Government. A 30-month transitional period for completing the unification of the two political and economic systems was set. A presidential council was jointly elected by the 26-member Yemen Arab Republic advisory council and the 17-member People's Democratic Republic of Yemen presidium. The presidential council appointed a Prime Minister, who formed a Cabinet. There was also a 301-seat provisional unified parliament, consisting of 159 members from the north, 111 members from the south, and 31 independent members appointed by the chairman of the council.\n\nA unity constitution was agreed upon in May 1990 and ratified by the populace in May 1991. It affirmed Yemen's commitment to free elections, a multiparty political system, the right to own private property, equality under the law, and respect of basic human rights. Parliamentary elections were held on April 27, 1993. International groups assisted in the organization of the elections and observed actual balloting. The resulting Parliament included 143 General People's Congress, 69 Yemeni Socialist Party (YSP), 63 Islah (the nation's largest Islamist party), 6 Ba'athists, 3 Nasserist Unionist People's Organisation, 2 Al Haq, and 15 independents. The new parliament represented the North strongly. The YSP, though it had won the most seats in voting in the less-populated south, was considered a minor part of the new coalition government. The head of Islaah, Abdullah ibn Husayn al-Ahmar, became the speaker of Parliament. Islaah was invited into the ruling coalition, and the presidential council was altered to include one Islaah member.\n\nAs a new oil field was brought online in the Hadhramaut Governorate in the south, southerners began to feel that their land, home to the majority of the country's oil reserves, was illegally appropriated as part of a planned conspiracy by the rulers of North Yemen.\n\nFinally, the newly unified nation faced political crisis when an estimated 800,000 Yemeni nationals and overseas workers were sent home by Saudi Arabia following Yemen's decision not to support Coalition forces in the Gulf War. Remittances from these workers, an important part of the economy, were slashed and many Yemenis were placed in refugee camps while the government decided where to house them and how to re-integrate them into the workforce. The repatriation of these Yemenis immediately increased the nation's population by 7%.\n\nConflicts within the coalition resulted in the self-imposed exile of Vice President Ali Salim Al-Beidh to Aden beginning in August 1993 and a deterioration in the general security situation as political rivals settled scores and tribal elements took advantage of the unsettled situation. Haidar Abu Bakr al-Attas, the former Southern Prime Minister continued to serve as the Yemen's Prime Minister, but his government was ineffective due to political infighting. Continuous negotiations between northern and southern leaders resulted in the signing of the document of pledge and accord in Amman, Jordan on February 20, 1994. Despite this, clashes intensified until civil war broke out in early May 1994. Significantly, one of the institutions that had not yet unified was the military arms of both nations.\n\nSouthern leaders seceded and established the Democratic Republic of Yemen (DRY) on 21 May 1994, but the new state was not recognized by the international community. Ali Nasir Muhammad, the exiled South Yemen leader, assisted military operations against the secessionists.\n\nAden was captured on 7 July 1994. Other resistance quickly collapsed and thousands of southern leaders and military went into exile. \n\nIn the aftermath of the civil war, Yemeni Socialist Party leaders within Yemen reorganized the party and elected a new politburo in July 1994. However, the party remained disheartened and without its former influence. Islaah held a party convention in September 1994. The General People's Congress did the same in June 1995.\n\nIn 1994, amendments to the unity constitution eliminated the presidential council. President Ali Abdallah Saleh was elected by Parliament on 1 October 1994 to a 5-year term. The constitution provided that henceforth the President is to be elected by popular vote from at least two candidates selected by the legislature.\n\nAdopting a Western style governmental system, Yemen held its first direct presidential elections in September 1999, electing President Ali Abdullah Saleh to a 5-year term in what were generally considered free and fair elections. Yemen held its second multiparty parliamentary elections in April 1997. Constitutional amendments adopted in the summer of 2000 extended the presidential term by 2 years, thus moving the next presidential elections to 2006. The amendments also extended the parliamentary term of office to a 6-year term, thus moving elections for these seats to 2003. On 20 February 2001, a new constitutional amendment created a bicameral legislature consisting of a Shura Council (111 seats; members appointed by the president) and a House of Representatives (301 seats; members elected by popular vote). Yemen is now a dominant-party system with the General People's Congress in power. \n\nFriction and troubles continued, elements in the south perceive unfair treatment by the north. This has given birth to a popular movement called the South Yemen Movement which calls for the return of an independent southern state. In 2015, this time as a pawn in the proxy war between Saudi Arabia and Iran, Yemen again was engulfed in civil war, which continues to this day.\n\n\n"}
