{"id": "53895877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53895877", "title": "Aars water tower", "text": "Aars water tower\n\nAars water tower is a water tower located in Aars in Himmerland, Denmark. The tower is built right in the middle of a very old water tank from where the city's original water supply went out. As it sounds, it was Aars's water tower. The building has many beautiful handicrafts. In the past the tower used to have a neon logo on top and the logo on top was the Cimbrian bull from Aars and Aars Municipality coat of arm/shild, but it was taken down. The tower was also a shop where you could buy yarn and many other things like tea cups. But the shop moved away from the tower.\n"}
{"id": "44454188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44454188", "title": "Agar dilution", "text": "Agar dilution\n\nAgar dilution is one of two methods (along with Broth Dilution) used by researchers to determine the Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) of antibiotics. It is the dilution method most frequently used to test the effectiveness of new antibiotics when a few antibiotics are tested against a large panel of different bacteria.\n\nThe antibiotic to be tested is diluted with water to produce a series of concentrations. An appropriate volume is then combined with melted agar to produce plates in which the final antibiotic concentrations represent a 2-fold dilution series. After this, bacteria prepared to a standard concentration are added as a spot to each plate, with 10^4 colony forming units (CFU) per spot. This technique allows for replicate spots of one bacterial type to be tested or spots of different bacteria so that the MIC of the antibiotic against multiple types of bacteria can be tested. Necessary controls include a control plate that does not receive any antibiotics and bacterial spread plates demonstrating that the bacterial inocula are in the correct concentration range. The dilution plates are then incubated at a temperature of 37 degrees Celsius. The plates are then incubated for sixteen to eighteen hours, although incubation time may be less for bacteria populations that divide quickly. After incubation, the plates are examined to determine if bacterial growth has occurred in the inoculated spots. The lowest concentration of antibiotics that prevented bacterial growth is considered to be the minimum inhibitory concentration of that antibiotic against that bacterium.\n\nAgar dilution is considered to be the gold standard of susceptibility testing, or the most accurate way to measure the resistance of bacteria to antibiotics. The results of agar dilution are easily reproduced and they can be monitored at a much cheaper cost than what is required of other dilution methods. Additionally, up to thirty pathogen samples (plus two controls) can be tested at once, so agar dilution is useful for batch tests.\nEach dilution plate in agar testing has to be manually inoculated with the pathogen to be tested, so agar dilution testing is both labor-intensive and expensive. Unlike broth microdilution tests, agar dilution cannot be used to test more than one antibiotic at a time.\n"}
{"id": "44420115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44420115", "title": "Anglo-Russian Hospital", "text": "Anglo-Russian Hospital\n\nThe Anglo-Russian Hospital was a hospital in Petrograd set up during the First World War. It was called 'The (British) Empire's Gift to Our Russian Allies' and was founded in 1915 and was closed in 1918.\n\nLady Muriel Paget and Lady Sybil Grey helped raise the funds to keep the hospital, located in what is now the Beloselsky-Belozersky Palace, running and set up several field hospitals along the Eastern Front. Pioneering neurosurgeon Geoffrey Jefferson served here for about 18 months between 1916-1918.\nThe hospital was visited by Tsarina Alexandra and her daughters, and Prince Felix Yusupov is reported to have had to have a fish bone removed from his throat here a few hours after the murder on Rasputin. The hospital closed not long after the October Revolution and the staff were evacuated to England.\n"}
{"id": "18131981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18131981", "title": "Atlantis Plastics shooting", "text": "Atlantis Plastics shooting\n\nThe Atlantis Plastics shooting was an incident of mass murder that took place at an Atlantis Plastics factory in Henderson, Kentucky, United States on June 25, 2008. The gunman, 25-year-old Wesley Neal Higdon, shot and killed five people and critically injured a sixth person before taking his own life. The shooting is the worst in the history of Henderson County, Kentucky in terms of casualties, surpassing triple homicides occurring in 1799 and 1955.\n\nHenderson police said that the shooter, who had a reputation for being difficult, had argued with supervisor Kevin Taylor and was being escorted out of the factory by the supervisor. The shooter apparently retrieved a handgun, shot the supervisor, then went back into the factory and shot five co-workers before turning the gun on himself. Subsequent reports indicate that Taylor had reprimanded Higdon twice before the shooting, once for talking on his cell phone too much and for not wearing safety glasses, then later for an altercation with co-worker Joshua Hinojosa at a convenience store across the street from the factory.\n\nThe victims were all shot with a Hi-Point Model JHP .45-caliber pistol. Taylor was apparently shot by Higdon outside the factory, then four more workers in the factory's break room, and finally Hinojosa from behind on the factory floor. Higdon then committed suicide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4793727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4793727", "title": "Bangladesh Society of Microbiologists", "text": "Bangladesh Society of Microbiologists\n\nBangladesh Society of Microbiologists (BSM) is an association of Bangladeshi Microbiologists.\n\nThe Bangladesh Society of Microbiologists was established in 1976 by a few researchers and intellectuals from Bangladesh. From the period of its establishment, it has emerged as the largest association of intellectuals and researchers in Bangladesh. The founder president of the society was Major General M. R. Choudhury (Mahmudur Rahman Choudhury) who died on June 24, 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9579270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9579270", "title": "Biological systems engineering", "text": "Biological systems engineering\n\nBiological systems engineering or biosystems engineering is a broad-based engineering discipline with particular emphasis on biology and chemistry. It can be thought of as a subset of the broader notion of biological engineering or bio-technology though not in the respects that pertain to biomedical engineering as \"biosystems\" engineering tends to focus less on medical applications than on \"agriculture, ecosystems, and food science\". It involves aspects of genetic engineering, particularly regarding the agricultural applications. The discipline focuses broadly on environmentally sound and sustainable engineering solutions to meet societies' ecologically-related needs. Biosystems engineering integrates the expertise of fundamental engineering fields with expertise from non-engineering disciplines.\n\nMany college and university biological engineering departments have a history of being grounded in agricultural engineering and have only in the past two decades or so changed their names to reflect the movement towards more diverse biological based engineering programs. This major is sometimes called agricultural and biological engineering, biological and environmental engineering, etc., in different universities, generally reflecting interests of local employment opportunities.\n\nSince biological engineering covers a wide spectrum, many departments now offer specialization options. Depending on the department and the specialization options offered within each program, curricula may overlap with other related fields. There are a number of different titles for BSE-related departments at various universities. The professional societies commonly associated with many Biological Engineering programs include the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers (ASABE) and the Institute of Biological Engineering (IBE), which generally encompasses BSE. Some program also participate in the Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES) and the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE).\n\nA biological systems engineer has a background in what both environmental engineers and biologists do, thus bridging the gap between engineering and the (non-medical) biological sciences – although this is variable across academic institutions. For this reason, biological systems engineers are becoming integral parts of many environmental engineering firms, federal agencies, and biotechnology industries. A biological systems engineer will often address the solution to a problem from the perspective of employing living systems to enact change. For example, biological treatment methodologies can be applied to provide access to clean drinking water or for sequestration of carbon dioxide.\n\n\nBelow is a listing of known academic programs that offer bachelor's degrees (B.S. or B.S.E.) in what ABET terms \"agricultural engineering\", \"biological systems engineering\", \"biological engineering\", or similarly named programs. ABET accredits college and university programs in the disciplines of applied science, computing, engineering, and engineering technology.\n\n\"North America\"\n\n\"Central and South America\"\n\"Europe\"\n\"Asia\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57786557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57786557", "title": "Capital Gazette shooting", "text": "Capital Gazette shooting\n\nOn June 28, 2018, a mass shooting occurred at the offices of \"The Capital\", a newspaper serving Annapolis, Maryland. The gunman, Jarrod Ramos, shot and killed five employees with a shotgun. Two others were injured while trying to escape. Ramos was arrested shortly after and is currently imprisoned while awaiting trial for the shooting.\n\nThe newspaper published an article in 2011 about Ramos being put on probation for harassing an acquaintance from high school through social media and email. Ramos, angered by the article, brought a defamation lawsuit against \"The Capital\"; a judge later dismissed the suit. Ramos is alleged to have sent enraged letters and messages to the newspaper's offices about his threats to attack the office and its staff; no legal action was taken after the threats were received.\n\nCapital Gazette Communications, owned by Tronc through its subsidiary the Baltimore Sun Media Group, publishes the daily \"The Capital\" and the \"Maryland Gazette\" newspapers and the weeklies \"Bowie Blade-News\" and \"Crofton-West County Gazette\". Its offices are located at 888 Bestgate Road in Parole, an unincorporated area of Anne Arundel County just outside Annapolis (the place name assigned by the U.S. Postal Service for addresses in this area).\n\nThe Anne Arundel County Police Department reported that the shooting began around 2:34 pm (EDT), resulting in five fatalities and the wounding of several other victims. The gunman barricaded the rear exit of the office to prevent people from escaping. Sources reported that the weapon was a \"long gun\" which would later be described as a 12-gauge pump-action shotgun.\n\nThe gunman used the weapon to shoot repeatedly after shooting out the office's glass door. Phil Davis, a courts and crime reporter at the site of the shooting for \"The Capital\", tweeted that the gunman \"shot through the glass door to the office and opened fire on multiple employees\". Davis also described the newspapers' offices as a \"war zone\" after the shooting and described hearing the gunman reload. He said the male gunman was alone.\n\nDuring a pause in the shooting, survivors moved to take refuge between filling cabinets, with some claiming victim Wendi Winters confronted the gunman, causing the pause. One survivor stated that Winters charged the gunman with a trash can and recycling bin, screaming at him, distracting him long enough for survivors to escape.\n\nSeveral injured victims were sent to the Anne Arundel Medical Center for treatment. County police evacuated 170 people from the building to a reunification center set up at the nearby Westfield Annapolis shopping center. The police reportedly had a 1-minute response time, and interviewed survivors in the criminal investigations unit of the Anne Arundel County Police Department. The police discovered the suspect underneath a desk in the office, and surveillance within the office documented the incident and helped identify Ramos as the perpetrator.\n\nAn indictment handed down on July 20 included five counts of first-degree murder, one count of attempted first-degree murder, six counts of first-degree assault, and 11 counts of the use of a firearm in the commission of a felony.\n\nFive people were killed and several others were injured in the attack. Those killed were:\n\n\nAccording to the Committee to Protect Journalists, the Capital Gazette shooting was one of only two incidents in which multiple journalists were killed in the United States since the organization began compiling data in 1992. The other incident was the murders of Alison Parker and Adam Ward during a live television interview in 2015.\n\nJarrod Warren Ramos (born December 21, 1979), age 38, was captured by police and is in custody as a suspect, but he refused to identify himself. Early reports said that the gunman mutilated his fingertips to avoid identification, but a law-enforcement official later stated that an issue with the fingerprint machine had caused the difficulties in identifying the suspect, and that his fingertips had not been mutilated. The suspect was also carrying a backpack with smoke bombs, flashbang devices, and grenades. The police later announced that the attack had been targeted specifically at Capital Gazette Communications.\n\nIn a court filing, Ramos stated he had seen five mental health professionals for at least 75 visits before the shooting, and exhibited a pattern of threats. Many of those around Ramos believed him to be a calculated, manipulative loner, who would become angry when things did not go his way, with those afflicted by him convinced he would one day hurt someone. None of Ramos's immediate family responded to requests for comment and other relatives have stated that they have not had contact with him for several years.\n\nRamos has been charged with five counts of first-degree murder, and ordered to be held without bail after he was determined to be a flight risk and a danger to the community. In July 2018, records showed Ramos was also charged with attempted first-degree murder of the survivors of the attack along with first-degree murder. He has also been placed on suicide watch while in custody of law enforcement. During his bail hearing, Ramos did not speak the entire time.\n\nIn July 2018, the case was assigned to Circuit Court Judge Laura S. Kiessling. On August 20, 2018 Ramos was seen in court for a brief hearing, where he pled not guilty to all charges, with a deadline of October 24 for his lawyers to enter a revised plea of not criminally responsible. The trial date was set for January 15, 2019, and was later delayed to June 3, 2019.\n\nIn 2012, Ramos sued \"The Capital\" in a defamation case he brought over a 2011 newspaper article reporting on his guilty plea for criminal harassment. After multiple appeals from Ramos, the defamation case against the newspaper was dismissed in 2015 by Prince George's County circuit court judge Maureen M. Lamasney, who ruled in favor of the paper because their reporting was based on publicly available records and Ramos had produced no evidence that the article was inaccurate. Lamasney wrote in her court opinion that Ramos' complaint was \"a fundamental failure to understand what defamation law is, and more particularly, what defamation law is not\". \n\nFormer \"Capital\" editor and publisher Thomas Marquardt said Ramos began harassing the staff of the newspaper after the article on him was published in 2011. In 2013, Marquardt contacted the Anne Arundel County Police Department about Ramos' behavior, but the department did not pursue the report. Marquardt also consulted the newspaper's attorneys about filing a restraining order against Ramos, and recalled telling them, \"This is a guy who is going to come in and shoot us.\" After his lawsuit against the newspaper was dismissed, Ramos opened a Twitter account, which he used to attack the newspaper and taunt its owners and staff. A former FBI senior profiler speculated that Ramos was \"an injustice collector\", whom she described as \"someone who goes through life...collect[ing] injustices, real or imagined\".\n\nRamos reportedly previously sent threatening letters to the newspaper's former attorney, to the Maryland Court of Special Appeals, and to Charles Moylan, Jr., the appellate judge who had ruled against Ramos in his defamation case.\n\nRamos' use of the criminal-justice system as a form of attempting to get his way was seen in at least two other cases. When he was dismissed from his job at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, over \"suitability concerns\", he sued the agency and won the case, yet was still dismissed from the agency. In 2009, a former classmate took out peace orders (used to prevent contact between people), followed by criminal harassment charges, which he lost. In an affidavit, the harassment victim wrote, \"I am physically afraid of Mr. Ramos, and that he may cause me serious physical injury and/or death.\"\n\nOn Thursday, June 28, police reported that Ramos sent letters to three people who had been involved in his defamation lawsuit, with a packet being received by \"The Capital's\" former attorney that included a letter addressed to Judge Moylan, who wrote the opinion upholding the dismissal of his defamation case. In it, he wrote, \"Welcome, Mr. Moylan, to your unexpected legacy: YOU should have died...Friends forever, Jarrod W. Ramos.\" The letter continues; \"I further certify I then did proceed to the office of respondent Capital-Gazette Communications...with the objective of killing every person present.\" One of the letters thought to have been written by the suspect was published by other news sources.\n\nPolice were also sent to the offices of \"The Baltimore Sun\", which owns Capital Gazette Communications, as a precaution, although no threat was registered there. The New York City Police Department also deployed counter-terrorism units to the headquarters of major news outlets in New York City as a precaution against similar attacks. The Chicago Police Department took similar actions.\n\nPresident Donald Trump was briefed on the shooting and offered his thoughts and prayers by tweet. He later declined to lower U.S. flags to half-staff, as is custom for mass shootings, despite requests from Annapolis mayor Gavin Buckley and the lowering of Maryland flags by the Governor of Maryland, Larry Hogan. On July 3, the White House was reported to have permitted the lowering of the US flags on federal buildings for the day, with the President then issuing a proclamation for the flags to be lowered nationwide until sunset on July 3.\n\nSome commentators have called the shooting an attack on the media, and framed it alongside comments by Trump that the \"fake news media\" (\"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", ABC, CBS, CNN, NBC News) are the \"enemy of the people\". The Monday before the shooting, Trump used the same \"enemy\" phrase to describe \"fake newsers\" journalists. The Sunday after the shooting, the staff of the \"Capital Gazette\" wrote: \"We won't forget being called an enemy of the people\".\n\nDays before, right-wing commentator Milo Yiannopoulos wrote that he \"can't wait for vigilante squads to start gunning journalists down on sight\" in text messages to reporters. After the shooting, Yiannopoulos said the texts were a just a joke.\n\nGovernor Hogan tweeted that he was \"[a]bsolutely devastated to learn of this tragedy in Annapolis\", and asked residents to \"heed all warnings and stay away from the area\". In a press conference, he praised local law enforcement for responding within 60 seconds.\n\nJustin Dearborn, the chairman and CEO of Tronc, said: \"We are focused now on providing our employees and their families with support during this tragic time. We commend the police and first responders for their quick response.\" The owner of the Capital Gazette created a fund for the families, victims, and survivors of the shooting, in addition to a scholarship memorial fund for journalism students. A separate GoFundMe fundraiser, created by a Bloomberg Government reporter hit the initial target and has grown to almost $200,000 by July 1.\n\nReporters for \"The Capital\" and \"Gazette\" began coverage of the shooting as it happened, from the newsroom and while returning from the field. Despite the shooting, journalists and staff at \"The Capital\" insisted on putting out the next edition of their paper only hours after the fatal shootings. The edition's opinion page was left blank to commemorate the victims, with the exception of a small note stating that the staff members \"are speechless\".\n\nOn July 1, \"The Capital\" published an editorial, signed by its entire staff of reporters and editors, thanking the citizens of Annapolis and Anne Arundel County for their support following the shooting.\n\nColleagues, friends, and family members of the deceased victims held a candlelit vigil on the streets of Annapolis on June 29 to honor the deceased. Capital Gazette reporter Phil Davis read the names of the deceased, and told the crowds that they were here \"to honor who (the victims) were and what their families did not have to go through\".\n\nOn July 2, Annapolis mayor Gavin Buckley announced that the city planned to hold a summer music festival that will act as a celebration of the freedom of the press and as a memorial for the journalists who were killed. \n\nThe concert was held on July 28 under the title \"Annapolis Rising: A Benefit for The Capital Gazette and Free Press\". The event featured performances by the rock bands Good Charlotte and Less Than Jake, a presentation by comedian Jordan Klepper, and a speech by \"Washington Post\" editor-in-chief Martin Baron. Proceeds from this event will be used to benefit a fund established for the victims and survivors, as well as journalism scholarships. \n\nOn July 3, the equipment manager of the Washington Capitals, the 2018 Stanley Cup champions, brought the Stanley Cup to the Capital Gazette's temporary office to boost the employees' morale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6437", "title": "Cholesterol", "text": "Cholesterol\n\nCholesterol (from the Ancient Greek \"chole-\" (bile) and \"stereos\" (solid), followed by the chemical suffix \"-ol\" for an alcohol) is an organic molecule. It is a sterol (or modified steroid), a type of lipid molecule, and is biosynthesized by all animal cells, because it is an essential structural component of all animal cell membranes.\n\nIn addition to its importance for animal cell structure, cholesterol also serves as a precursor for the biosynthesis of steroid hormones, bile acid and vitamin D. Cholesterol is the principal sterol synthesized by all animals. In vertebrates, hepatic cells typically produce the greatest amounts. It is absent among prokaryotes (bacteria and archaea), although there are some exceptions, such as \"Mycoplasma\", which require cholesterol for growth.\n\nFrançois Poulletier de la Salle first identified cholesterol in solid form in gallstones in 1769. However, it was not until 1815 that chemist Michel Eugène Chevreul named the compound \"cholesterine\".\n\nSince cholesterol is essential for all animal life, each cell is capable of synthesizing it by way of a complex 37-step process, beginning with the mevalonate pathway and ending with a 19-step conversion of lanosterol to cholesterol. Furthermore, it can be absorbed directly from animal-based foods.\n\nA human male weighing 68 kg (150 lb) normally synthesizes about 1 gram (1,000 mg) per day, and his body contains about 35 g, mostly contained within the cell membranes. Typical daily cholesterol dietary intake for a man in the United States is 307 mg.\n\nMost ingested cholesterol is esterified, and esterified cholesterol is poorly absorbed. The body also compensates for any absorption of additional cholesterol by reducing cholesterol synthesis. For these reasons, cholesterol in food, seven to ten hours after ingestion, has little, if any effect on concentrations of cholesterol in the blood. However, during the first seven hours after ingestion of cholesterol, as absorbed fats are being distributed around the body within extracellular water by the various lipoproteins (which transport all fats in the water outside cells), the concentrations increase. It is also important to recognize, however, that the concentrations measured in the samples of blood plasma vary with the measurement methods used. Traditional, cheaper methods do not reflect (a) which lipoproteins are transporting the various fat molecules, nor (b) which cells are ingesting, burning or exporting the fat molecules being measured as totals from samples of blood plasma.\n\nCholesterol is recycled in the body. The liver excretes it in a non-esterified form (via bile) into the digestive tract. Typically, about 95% of the excreted cholesterol is reabsorbed by the small intestine back into the bloodstream.\n\nPlants make cholesterol in very small amounts. Plants manufacture phytosterols (substances chemically similar to cholesterol), which can compete with cholesterol for reabsorption in the intestinal tract, thus potentially reducing cholesterol reabsorption. When intestinal lining cells absorb phytosterols, in place of cholesterol, they usually excrete the phytosterol molecules back into the GI tract, an important protective mechanism. The intake of naturally occurring phytosterols, which encompass plant sterols and stanols, ranges between ~200–300 mg/day depending on eating habits. Specially designed vegetarian experimental diets have been produced yielding upwards of 700 mg/day.\n\nCholesterol, given that it composes about 30% of all animal cell membranes, is required to build and maintain membranes and modulates membrane fluidity over the range of physiological temperatures. The hydroxyl group on cholesterol interacts with the polar heads of the membrane phospholipids and sphingolipids, while the bulky steroid and the hydrocarbon chain are embedded in the membrane, alongside the nonpolar fatty-acid chain of the other lipids. Through the interaction with the phospholipid fatty-acid chains, cholesterol increases membrane packing, which both alters membrane fluidity and maintains membrane integrity so that animal cells do not need to build cell walls (like plants and most bacteria). The membrane remains stable and durable without being rigid, allowing animal cells to change shape and animals to move.\n\nThe structure of the tetracyclic ring of cholesterol contributes to the fluidity of the cell membrane, as the molecule is in a \"trans\" conformation making all but the side chain of cholesterol rigid and planar. In this structural role, cholesterol also reduces the permeability of the plasma membrane to neutral solutes, hydrogen ions, and sodium ions.\n\nWithin the cell membrane, cholesterol also functions in intracellular transport, cell signaling and nerve conduction. Cholesterol is essential for the structure and function of invaginated caveolae and clathrin-coated pits, including caveola-dependent and clathrin-dependent endocytosis. The role of cholesterol in endocytosis of these types can be investigated by using methyl beta cyclodextrin (MβCD) to remove cholesterol from the plasma membrane. Recent studies show that cholesterol is also implicated in cell signaling processes, assisting in the formation of lipid rafts in the plasma membrane, which brings receptor proteins in close proximity with high concentrations of second messenger molecules. In multiple layers, cholesterol and phospholipids, both electrical insulators, can facilitate speed of transmission of electrical impulses along nerve tissue. For many neuron fibers, a myelin sheath, rich in cholesterol since it is derived from compacted layers of Schwann cell membrane, provides insulation for more efficient conduction of impulses. Demyelination (loss of some of these Schwann cells) is believed to be part of the basis for multiple sclerosis.\n\nWithin cells, cholesterol is also a precursor molecule for several biochemical pathways. For example, it is the precursor molecule for the synthesis of vitamin D and all steroid hormones, including the adrenal gland hormones cortisol and aldosterone, as well as the sex hormones progesterone, estrogens, and testosterone, and their derivatives.\n\nThe liver excretes cholesterol into biliary fluids, which is then stored in the gallbladder. Bile contains bile salts, which solubilize fats in the digestive tract and aid in the intestinal absorption of fat molecules as well as the fat-soluble vitamins, A, D, E, and K.\n\nAll animal cells manufacture cholesterol, for both membrane structure and other uses, with relative production rates varying by cell type and organ function. About 80% of total daily cholesterol production occurs in the liver and the intestines; other sites of higher synthesis rates include adrenal glands, and reproductive organs.\n\nSynthesis within the body starts with the mevalonate pathway where two molecules of acetyl CoA condense to form acetoacetyl-CoA. This is followed by a second condensation between acetyl CoA and acetoacetyl-CoA to form 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA (HMG-CoA). \nThis molecule is then reduced to mevalonate by the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase. Production of mevalonate is the rate-limiting and irreversible step in cholesterol synthesis and is the site of action for statins (a class of cholesterol lowering drugs).\nMevalonate is finally converted to isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP) through two phosphorylation steps and one decarboxylation step that requires ATP.\n\nThree molecules of isopentenyl pyrophosphate condense to form farnesyl pyrophosphate through the action of geranyl transferase.\n\nTwo molecules of farnesyl pyrophosphate then condense to form squalene by the action of squalene synthase in the endoplasmic reticulum. \n\nOxidosqualene cyclase then cyclizes squalene to form lanosterol. Finally, lanosterol is converted to cholesterol through a 19-step process.\n\nThe final 19 steps to cholesterol contain NADPH and oxygen to help oxidize methyl groups for removal of carbons, mutases to move alkene groups, and NADH to help reduce ketones.\n\nKonrad Bloch and Feodor Lynen shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1964 for their discoveries concerning some of the mechanisms and methods of regulation of cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism.\n\nBiosynthesis of cholesterol is directly regulated by the cholesterol levels present, though the homeostatic mechanisms involved are only partly understood. A higher intake from food leads to a net decrease in endogenous production, whereas lower intake from food has the opposite effect. The main regulatory mechanism is the sensing of intracellular cholesterol in the endoplasmic reticulum by the protein SREBP (sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 and 2). In the presence of cholesterol, SREBP is bound to two other proteins: SCAP (SREBP cleavage-activating protein) and INSIG-1. When cholesterol levels fall, INSIG-1 dissociates from the SREBP-SCAP complex, which allows the complex to migrate to the Golgi apparatus. Here SREBP is cleaved by S1P and S2P (site-1 protease and site-2 protease), two enzymes that are activated by SCAP when cholesterol levels are low.\n\nThe cleaved SREBP then migrates to the nucleus, and acts as a transcription factor to bind to the sterol regulatory element (SRE), which stimulates the transcription of many genes. Among these are the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor and HMG-CoA reductase. The LDL receptor scavenges circulating LDL from the bloodstream, whereas HMG-CoA reductase leads to an increase of endogenous production of cholesterol. A large part of this signaling pathway was clarified by Dr. Michael S. Brown and Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein in the 1970s. In 1985, they received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their work. Their subsequent work shows how the SREBP pathway regulates expression of many genes that control lipid formation and metabolism and body fuel allocation.\n\nCholesterol synthesis can also be turned off when cholesterol levels are high. HMG-CoA reductase contains both a cytosolic domain (responsible for its catalytic function) and a membrane domain. The membrane domain senses signals for its degradation. Increasing concentrations of cholesterol (and other sterols) cause a change in this domain's oligomerization state, which makes it more susceptible to destruction by the proteosome. This enzyme's activity can also be reduced by phosphorylation by an AMP-activated protein kinase. Because this kinase is activated by AMP, which is produced when ATP is hydrolyzed, it follows that cholesterol synthesis is halted when ATP levels are low.\n\nAnimal fats are complex mixtures of triglycerides, with lesser amounts of both the phospholipids and cholesterol molecules from which all animal (and human) cell membranes are constructed. Since all animal cells manufacture cholesterol, all animal-based foods contain cholesterol in varying amounts. Major dietary sources of cholesterol include cheese, egg yolks, beef, pork, poultry, fish, and shrimp. Human breast milk also contains significant quantities of cholesterol.\n\nPlant cells do not manufacture cholesterol, and it is not found in plant foods. Some plant foods, such as avocado, flax seeds and peanuts, contain phytosterols, which compete with cholesterol for absorption in the intestines, reducing the absorption of both dietary and bile cholesterol. A typical diet contributes on the order of 0.2 gram of phytosterols, which is not enough to have a significant impact on blocking cholesterol absorption. Phytosterols intake can be supplemented through the use of phytosterol-containing functional foods or dietary supplements that are recognized as having potential to reduce levels of LDL-cholesterol. Some supplemental guidelines have recommended doses of phytosterols in the 1.6–3.0 grams per day range (Health Canada, EFSA, ATP III, FDA). A recent meta-analysis demonstrating a 12% reduction in LDL-cholesterol at a mean dose of 2.1 grams per day. However, the benefits of a diet supplemented with phytosterols have been questioned.\n\nIn 2016, the United States Department of Agriculture Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee recommended that Americans eat as little dietary cholesterol as possible. Increased dietary intake of industrial trans fats is associated with an increased risk in all-cause mortality and cardiovascular diseases. Trans fats have been shown to correlate with reduced levels of HDL and increased levels of LDL. Based on this evidence, along with other claims implicating low HDL and high LDL levels in cardiovascular disease, many health authorities advocate reducing LDL-cholesterol through changes in diet in addition to other lifestyle modifications. The related studies which correlate trans fats, as well as saturated fats, with unhealthy serum cholesterol levels, have since been contested on numerous points. The most notable and egregious challenge to these standards comes from a NCBI published meta analysis of the data used in the development of these guidelines, in which the correlation between serum cholesterol and saturated fat intake, was similarly or less significant than the correlation to visceral fat. As well as others, one of which concluded that current evidence \"does not clearly support cardiovascular guidelines that encourage high consumption of polyunsaturated fatty acids and low consumption of total saturated fats.\" Other evidences such as metabolic ward and lab studies, including a study where rats subjected to high-fat or fructose diets became dyslipidemic are similarly questionable, given indications of an increase of produced visceral fat, which occurs as a result of metabolic differences in the processing of fructose. A general inconsistency of conclusions regarding the impact of simple carbohydrates on visceral fat, and a lack of data regarding the causal relationship between serum cholesterol and either saturated fat and visceral fat, makes drawing a definitive conclusion unreasonable, especially given the presence of numerous correlations. As such, given that well designed, adequately powered randomized controlled trials investigating patient-relevant outcomes of low-fat diets for otherwise healthy people with hypercholesterolaemia are lacking; large, parallel, randomized controlled trials are still needed to investigate the effectiveness of a cholesterol-lowering diet and the addition of omega-3 fatty acids, soya protein, plant sterols or stanols, especially in the case of familial hypercholesterolemia.\n\nAs an isolated molecule, cholesterol is only minimally soluble in water; it dissolves into the (water-based) bloodstream only at exceedingly small concentrations. Instead, cholesterol is transported within lipoproteins, complex discoidal particles with exterior amphiphilic proteins and lipids, whose outward-facing surfaces are water-soluble and inward-facing surfaces are lipid-soluble; i.e. transport via emulsification. Triglycerides and cholesterol esters are carried internally. Phospholipids and cholesterol, being amphipathic, are transported in the monolayer surface of the lipoprotein particle.\n\nThere are several types of lipoproteins in the blood. In order of increasing density, they are chylomicrons, very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), intermediate-density lipoprotein (IDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and high-density lipoprotein (HDL). Lower protein/lipid ratios make for less dense lipoproteins. Cholesterol within different lipoproteins is identical, although some is carried as its native \"free\" alcohol form (the cholesterol-OH group facing the water surrounding the particles), while others as fatty acyl esters, known also as cholesterol esters, within the particles.\n\nLipoprotein particles are organized by complex apolipoproteins, typically 80–100 different proteins per particle, which can be recognized and bound by specific receptors on cell membranes, directing their lipid payload into specific cells and tissues currently ingesting these fat transport particles. Lipoprotein particles thus include a molecular addresses which play key roles in distribution and delivery of fats around the body in the water outside cells.\n\nChylomicrons, the least dense cholesterol transport molecules, contain apolipoprotein B-48, apolipoprotein C, and apolipoprotein E (the principal cholesterol carrier in the brain) in their shells. Chylomicrons carry fats from the intestine to muscle and other tissues in need of fatty acids for energy or fat production. Unused cholesterol remains in more cholesterol-rich chylomicron remnants, and taken up from here to the bloodstream by the liver.\n\nVLDL molecules are produced by the liver from triacylglycerol and cholesterol which was not used in the synthesis of bile acids. These molecules contain apolipoprotein B100 and apolipoprotein E in their shells, and are degraded by lipoprotein lipase on the blood vessel wall to IDL.\n\nBlood vessels cleave and absorb triacylglycerol from IDL molecules, increasing the concentration of cholesterol. IDL molecules are then consumed in two processes: half is metabolized by HTGL and taken up by the LDL receptor on the liver cell surfaces, while the other half continues to lose triacylglycerols in the bloodstream until they become LDL molecules, with the highest concentration of cholesterol within them.\n\nLDL particles are the major blood cholesterol carriers. Each one contains approximately 1,500 molecules of cholesterol ester. LDL molecule shells contain just one molecule of apolipoprotein B100, recognized by LDL receptors in peripheral tissues. Upon binding of apolipoprotein B100, many LDL receptors concentrate in clathrin-coated pits. Both LDL and its receptor form vesicles within a cell via endocytosis. These vesicles then fuse with a lysosome, where the lysosomal acid lipase enzyme hydrolyzes the cholesterol esters. The cholesterol can then be used for membrane biosynthesis or esterified and stored within the cell, so as to not interfere with the cell membranes.\n\nLDL receptors are used up during cholesterol absorption, and its synthesis is regulated by SREBP, the same protein that controls the synthesis of cholesterol \"de novo\", according to its presence inside the cell. A cell with abundant cholesterol will have its LDL receptor synthesis blocked, to prevent new cholesterol in LDL molecules from being taken up. Conversely, LDL receptor synthesis proceeds when a cell is deficient in cholesterol.\n\nWhen this process becomes unregulated, LDL molecules without receptors begin to appear in the blood. These LDL molecules are oxidized and taken up by macrophages, which become engorged and form foam cells. These foam cells often become trapped in the walls of blood vessels and contribute to atherosclerotic plaque formation. Differences in cholesterol homeostasis affect the development of early atherosclerosis (carotid intima-media thickness). These plaques are the main causes of heart attacks, strokes, and other serious medical problems, leading to the association of so-called LDL cholesterol (actually a lipoprotein) with \"bad\" cholesterol.\n\nHDL particles are thought to transport cholesterol back to the liver, either for excretion or for other tissues that synthesize hormones, in a process known as reverse cholesterol transport (RCT). Large numbers of HDL particles correlates with better health outcomes, whereas low numbers of HDL particles is associated with atheromatous disease progression in the arteries.\n\nCholesterol is susceptible to oxidation and easily forms oxygenated derivatives called oxysterols. Three different mechanisms can form these: autoxidation, secondary oxidation to lipid peroxidation, and cholesterol-metabolizing enzyme oxidation. A great interest in oxysterols arose when they were shown to exert inhibitory actions on cholesterol biosynthesis. This finding became known as the “oxysterol hypothesis”. Additional roles for oxysterols in human physiology include their participation in bile acid biosynthesis, function as transport forms of cholesterol, and regulation of gene transcription.\n\nIn biochemical experiments radiolabelled forms of cholesterol, such as tritiated-cholesterol are used. These derivatives undergo degradation upon storage and it is essential to purify cholesterol prior to use. Cholesterol can be purified using small Sephadex LH-20 columns.\n\nCholesterol is oxidized by the liver into a variety of bile acids. These, in turn, are conjugated with glycine, taurine, glucuronic acid, or sulfate. A mixture of conjugated and nonconjugated bile acids, along with cholesterol itself, is excreted from the liver into the bile. Approximately 95% of the bile acids are reabsorbed from the intestines, and the remainder are lost in the feces. The excretion and reabsorption of bile acids forms the basis of the enterohepatic circulation, which is essential for the digestion and absorption of dietary fats. Under certain circumstances, when more concentrated, as in the gallbladder, cholesterol crystallises and is the major constituent of most gallstones (lecithin and bilirubin gallstones also occur, but less frequently). Every day, up to 1 g of cholesterol enters the colon. This cholesterol originates from the diet, bile, and desquamated intestinal cells, and can be metabolized by the colonic bacteria. Cholesterol is converted mainly into coprostanol, a nonabsorbable sterol that is excreted in the feces. A cholesterol-reducing bacterium origin has been isolated from human feces.\n\nAlthough cholesterol is a steroid generally associated with mammals, the human pathogen \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\" is able to completely degrade this molecule and contains a large number of genes that are regulated by its presence. Many of these cholesterol-regulated genes are homologues of fatty acid β-oxidation genes, but have evolved in such a way as to bind large steroid substrates like cholesterol.\n\nCholesterol binds to and affects the gating of a number of ion channels such as the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, GABA receptor, and the inward-rectifier potassium ion channel. Cholesterol also activates the estrogen-related receptor alpha (ERRα), and may be the endogenous ligand for the receptor. The constitutively active nature of the receptor may be explained by the fact that cholesterol is ubiquitous in the body. Inhibition of ERRα signaling by reduction of cholesterol production has been identified as a key mediator of the effects of statins and bisphosphonates on bone, muscle, and macrophages. On the basis of these findings, it has been suggested that the ERRα should be de-orphanized and classified as a receptor for cholesterol.\n\nAccording to the lipid hypothesis, since cholesterol (like all fat molecules) is transported around the body (in the water outside cells) inside lipoprotein particles, elevated cholesterol concentrations (hypercholesterolemia) potentially offer a lower cost way to estimate concentrations of LDL particles; possibly even low concentrations of functional HDL particles, both variations strongly associated with cardiovascular disease because LDL particles promote atheroma development in arteries (atherosclerosis).\n\nThis atherosclerotic disease process, over decades, leads to myocardial infarction (heart attack), stroke, and peripheral vascular disease. Since higher blood LDL, especially higher LDL particle concentrations and smaller LDL particle size, contribute to this process more than the cholesterol content of the HDL particles, LDL particles are often termed \"bad cholesterol\" because they have been linked to atheroma formation. On the other hand, high concentrations of functional HDL, which can remove cholesterol from cells and atheroma, offer protection and are sometimes referred to as \"good cholesterol\". These balances are mostly genetically determined, but can be changed by body build, medications, food choices, and other factors.\n\nConditions with elevated concentrations of oxidized LDL particles, especially \"small dense LDL\" (sdLDL) particles, are associated with atheroma formation in the walls of arteries, a condition known as atherosclerosis, which is the principal cause of coronary heart disease and other forms of cardiovascular disease. In contrast, HDL particles (especially large HDL) have been identified as a mechanism by which cholesterol and inflammatory mediators can be removed from atheroma. Increased concentrations of HDL correlate with lower rates of atheroma progressions and even regression. A 2007 study pooling data on almost 900,000 subjects in 61 cohorts demonstrated that blood total cholesterol levels have an exponential effect on cardiovascular and total mortality, with the association more pronounced in younger subjects. Still, because cardiovascular disease is relatively rare in the younger population, the impact of high cholesterol on health is still larger in older people.\n\nElevated levels of the lipoprotein fractions, LDL, IDL and VLDL are regarded as atherogenic (prone to cause atherosclerosis). Levels of these fractions, rather than the total cholesterol level, correlate with the extent and progress of atherosclerosis. Conversely, the total cholesterol can be within normal limits, yet be made up primarily of small LDL and small HDL particles, under which conditions atheroma growth rates would still be high. Recently, a \"post hoc\" analysis of the IDEAL and the EPIC prospective studies found an association between high levels of HDL cholesterol (adjusted for apolipoprotein A-I and apolipoprotein B) and increased risk of cardiovascular disease, casting doubt on the cardioprotective role of \"good cholesterol\".\n\nElevated cholesterol levels are treated with a strict diet consisting of low saturated fat, trans fat-free, low cholesterol foods, often followed by one of various hypolipidemic agents, such as statins, fibrates, cholesterol absorption inhibitors, nicotinic acid derivatives or bile acid sequestrants. Extreme cases have previously been treated with partial ileal bypass surgery, which has now been superseded by medication. Apheresis-based treatments are still used for very severe hyperlipidemias that are either unresponsive to treatment or require rapid lowering of blood lipids. There are several international guidelines on the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia.\n\nMultiple human trials using HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, known as statins, have repeatedly confirmed that changing lipoprotein transport patterns from unhealthy to healthier patterns significantly lowers cardiovascular disease event rates, even for people with cholesterol values currently considered low for adults. Studies have also found that statins reduce atheroma progression. As a result, people with a history of cardiovascular disease may derive benefit from statins irrespective of their cholesterol levels (total cholesterol below 5.0 mmol/L [193 mg/dL]), and in men without cardiovascular disease, there is benefit from lowering abnormally high cholesterol levels (\"primary prevention\"). Primary prevention in women was originally practiced only by extension of the findings in studies on men, since, in women, none of the large statin trials conducted prior to 2007 demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in overall mortality or in cardiovascular endpoints. In 2008, a large clinical trial reported that, in apparently healthy adults with increased levels of the inflammatory biomarker high-sensitivity C-reactive protein but with low initial LDL, 20 mg/day of rosuvastatin for 1.9 years resulted in a 44% reduction in the incidence of cardiovascular events and a 20% reduction in all-cause mortality; the effect was statistically significant for both genders. Though this result was met with some skepticism, later studies and meta-analyses likewise demonstrated statistically significant (but smaller) reductions in all-cause and cardiovascular mortality, without significant heterogeneity by gender.\n\nThe 1987 report of National Cholesterol Education Program, Adult Treatment Panels suggests the total blood cholesterol level should be: < 200 mg/dL normal blood cholesterol, 200–239 mg/dL borderline-high, > 240 mg/dL high cholesterol. The American Heart Association provides a similar set of guidelines for total (fasting) blood cholesterol levels and risk for heart disease:\n\nHowever, as today's testing methods determine LDL (\"bad\") and HDL (\"good\") cholesterol separately, this simplistic view has become somewhat outdated. The desirable LDL level is considered to be less than 130 mg/dL (2.6 mmol/L), although a newer upper limit of 70 mg/dL (1.8 mmol/L) can be considered in higher-risk individuals based on some of the above-mentioned trials. A ratio of total cholesterol to HDL—another useful measure—of far less than 5:1 is thought to be healthier.\n\nTotal cholesterol is defined as the sum of HDL, LDL, and VLDL. Usually, only the total, HDL, and triglycerides are measured. For cost reasons, the VLDL is usually estimated as one-fifth of the triglycerides and the LDL is estimated using the Friedewald formula (or a variant): estimated LDL = [total cholesterol] − [total HDL] − [estimated VLDL]. VLDL can be calculated by dividing total triglycerides by five. Direct LDL measures are used when triglycerides exceed 400 mg/dL. The estimated VLDL and LDL have more error when triglycerides are above 400 mg/dL.\n\nGiven the well-recognized role of cholesterol in cardiovascular disease, some studies have shown an inverse correlation between cholesterol levels and mortality. A 2009 study of patients with acute coronary syndromes found an association of hypercholesterolemia with better mortality outcomes. In the Framingham Heart Study, in subjects over 50 years of age, they found an 11% increase overall and 14% increase in cardiovascular disease mortality per 1 mg/dL per year drop in total cholesterol levels. The researchers attributed this phenomenon to the fact that people with severe chronic diseases or cancer tend to have below-normal cholesterol levels. This explanation is not supported by the Vorarlberg Health Monitoring and Promotion Programme, in which men of all ages and women over 50 with very low cholesterol were likely to die of cancer, liver diseases, and mental diseases. This result indicates the low-cholesterol effect occurs even among younger respondents, contradicting the previous assessment among cohorts of older people that this is a proxy or marker for frailty occurring with age.\n\nAlthough the vast majority of doctors and medical scientists consider that there is a link between cholesterol and atherosclerosis as discussed above, a 2014 meta-analysis concluded there is insufficient evidence to support the recommendation of high consumption of polyunsaturated fatty acids and low consumption of total saturated fats for cardiovascular health.\n\nAbnormally low levels of cholesterol are termed \"hypocholesterolemia\". Research into the causes of this state is relatively limited, but some studies suggest a link with depression, cancer, and cerebral hemorrhage. In general, the low cholesterol levels seem to be a consequence, rather than a cause, of an underlying illness. A genetic defect in cholesterol synthesis causes Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome, which is often associated with low plasma cholesterol levels. Hyperthyroidism, or any other endocrine disturbance which causes upregulation of the LDL receptor, may result in hypocholesterolemia.\n\nThe American Heart Association recommends testing cholesterol every 4–6 years for people aged 20 years or older. A separate set of American Heart Association guidelines issued in 2013 indicates that patients taking statin medications should have their cholesterol tested 4–12 weeks after their first dose and then every 3–12 months thereafter.\n\nA blood sample after 12-hour fasting is taken by a doctor, or a home cholesterol-monitoring device is used to determine a lipoprotein profile. This measures total cholesterol, LDL (\"bad\") cholesterol, HDL (\"good\") cholesterol, and triglycerides. It is recommended to test cholesterol at least every five years if a person has total cholesterol of 5.2 mmol/L or more (200+ mg/dL), or if a man over age 45 or a woman over age 50 has HDL (\"good\") cholesterol less than 1 mmol/L (40 mg/dL), or there are other risk factors for heart disease and stroke. Other risk factors for heart disease include diabetes mellitus, hypertension (or use of anti-hypertensive medication), low HDL level, family history of coronary artery disease (CAD) and hypercholesterolemia, and cigarette smoking.\n\nSome cholesterol derivatives (among other simple cholesteric lipids) are known to generate the liquid crystalline \"cholesteric phase\". The cholesteric phase is, in fact, a chiral nematic phase, and it changes colour when its temperature changes. This makes cholesterol derivatives useful for indicating temperature in liquid-crystal display thermometers and in temperature-sensitive paints.\n\nCholesterol has 256 stereoisomers that arise from its 8 stereocenters, although only two of the stereoisomers are of biochemical significance (\"nat\"-cholesterol and \"ent\"-cholesterol, for \"natural\" and \"enantiomer\", respectively), and only one occurs naturally (\"nat\"-cholesterol).\n\n"}
{"id": "50091460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50091460", "title": "Counties Manukau District Health Board", "text": "Counties Manukau District Health Board\n\nThe Counties Manukau District Health Board (CM Health) is a district health board with the focus on providing healthcare to the Counties Manukau area in southern Auckland, New Zealand. As of 2016, it is responsible for 534,750 residents; or 11% of New Zealand's population.\n\nMiddlemore Hospital is the largest facility under the management of CM Health, however they manage multiple other facilities, which include Kidz First Children's Hospital, the Manukau Surgery Centre, Pukekohe Hospital, Franklin Memorial Hospital, Botany Downs Maternity Unit and Papakura Maternity Unit as well as dedicated mental health and rehabilitation units. There are also specialised smaller scale health centres referred to as SuperClinics, they are, Manukau SuperClinic and Botany SuperClinic.\n\nCM Health is divided into four divisions, Otara-Mangere, Manukau, Franklin , and Eastern. These divisions are called Localities.\n\nFranklin is the largest locality in CM Health and has a population of around 70,000 representing 14% of the CM population. The population of Franklin Locality is a European majority locality with only 27% of the population not being European (17% Maori, 4% Pacific peoples, and 6% Others). \n\nOtara-Mangere is the smallest locality under CM Health and accounts for roughly 32% of the CM population at around 166,500. Of the population 110,000 are registered with a doctors practice, 68,000 in Mangere and 42,000 in Otara. Included in the Otara-Mangere Locality is the northern portion of Papatoetoe as well as a small portion of Otahuhu. The population of the Otara-Mangere Locality is 65% Pacific Islander, 20% Maori, 8% European, and 7% other.\n\nThe Eastern Locality geographical area includes urban areas of Howick, Pakuranga, Dannemora, East Tamaki and Flat Bush and extends to the rural areas of Beachlands, Maraetai, Clevedon, Kawakawa Bay and Orere Point. With a population of 145,000, Eastern Locality holds around 28.5% of the CM Population. Of this 28.5%, 114,000 or 24% of CM Health's population are registered with a general practice within the Eastern Locality. The Easter Locality has the oldest age average of CM Health's jurisdiction with over 16,000 residents over the age of 65. The majority of Eastern Locality is persons of Chinese and/or Indian descent; it is estimated that over two-thirds of CM Health's Chinese population and one-third of its Indian population live within the Eastern Locality. \n\nManukau Locality is the largest by population with 35% representing 187,000 people. Manukau has the largest concentration of people representing 56% of CM Health's total Maori, 37% of its total Pacific population, 53% of its total Indian population, and 24% of Other populations. \n\nElections for the board are held every three years.\n"}
{"id": "9398133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9398133", "title": "Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Malaya", "text": "Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Malaya\n\nThe Department of Social and Preventive Medicine (popularly known as SPM) is one of 22 teaching departments in the Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya. It was formed in 1964, one year after the founding of the Faculty of Medicine in the University of Malaya in Kuala Lumpur. The department are involved in both Undergraduate and Postgraduate teachings.\n\nThe Master of Public Health program was started in 1973 in response to an acute need of the Ministry of Health Malaysia for Medical Offices of Health to serve in the then fast expanding rural health services. Thus the program during the first decade of its existence was aimed at producing competent public health specialist to serve the rural areas\n\nBy 1987, the environment have so changed that at a meeting between the Director General of Health Services of Malaysia and senior staff of the Department of SPM, a new kind of public health officer was required by the Ministry of Health, namely \"a multipurpose public health doctor equipped with the managerial skills and able to work in the general public health as well as hospital setting\". By 1989, after a review of the curriculum, a new set of objectives were established for MPH programme.\n\nThe MPH Graduate should be\n\n\nBy 1992, many changes had already taken place in the country as well as in the national health services and it was felt that all these changes had an influence on the practice of public health. It was with this in ming that a concept paper to propose \"a system of education or training at the postgraduate level and a career development channel in the field of Public Health in Malaysia\" was produced by the Department of Social and Preventive Medicine. This culminated in the initiation of a 4-years training program, the program has further evolve with the addition of the Doctor of Public Health program. \n\nThe graduates originate from the following countries,\n\n\nThey now serve with distinction in the Ministry of Health, universities and various National and International bodies (e.g. Malaysian Armed Forces, WHO (World Health Organization), Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), and in town and city councils) in Malaysia and around the world.\n"}
{"id": "49794775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49794775", "title": "Dr. Haass Social Assistance Fund", "text": "Dr. Haass Social Assistance Fund\n\nDr. Haass Social Assistance Fund is the first non-profitable non-governmental charitable organization (NPO) in the Soviet Union, founded on November 26, 1987 in Odessa (USSR). It is named after a famous Russian philanthropist, \"Saint Doctor\", Friedrich Joseph Haass (1780–1853).\n\nThe most comprehensive official study of diverse charitable activities of the Fund has found its documentary reflection in the report of the Standing Committee on Social Policy of the Odessa City Council on May 17, 2000 as well as in the documentary film about the activity of the Fund Independent experts of the Standing Committee estimated the Fund charitable assistance to people in need, and to social institutions, at a total amount of more than eight million US dollars, as of 2000.\n\nGraduates of the Faculty of Law of Odessa State Mechnikov University (OSU) Oleg Kutateladze and Alexander Muchnik were the founders of the Fund. OSU Professors supported the creation and formation of the Fund: the Head of the Department of Philosophy Tamara Tarasenko (1939–1992), who became the first chairman of the boardof the Fund, and the Dean of the Faculty of Law, Doctor of Law, professor, Academician Anatoly S. Vasilyev (1938–2015), who became a member of the Board of the Fund.\n\nDuring its philanthropic mission the Fund has created and funded a number of charitable organizations and programs that provide social, medical and psychological assistance to a large number of lonely elderly people, the disabled, war and labor veterans, sick children, as well as financial support to kindergartens, schools, hospitals and health centers, various social institutions.\n\nIt is one of the participants of the inaugural conference of the Soviet Charity and Health Fund (September 16, 1988, Moscow, the USSR).\n\nTo prepare the establishment of a free economic zone in Odessa on November 23, 1988 the Fund commissioned a group of economists led by Professor Vladimir Dergachyov, to develop the documents entitled \"Prospects of Odessa region on the basis of an open economy\", which was delivered to the Fund on April 6, 1989 р.\n\nThe Fund founded Janusz Korczak Institute of medical rehabilitation of children with central nervous system lesion (September 6, 1989, Odessa, the Ukrainian SSR). For many years Doctor of Medicine, professor, UNICEF expert Irina Viktorovna Galina has been the leader of the Institute. During its activity the Institute has treated more than 12 thousand children with organic and functional diseases of the central nervous system, such as cerebral palsy, mental retardation, Down syndrome, epilepsy, autism, and so on.\n\nMother Maria Mercy Center (August 9, 1989, Odessa, the USSR). In its three hospitals, located in Odessa (in Gamarnik street, 13, apt 14; Prospect Mira, 37; and Tereshkova street, 12 \"b\" apt 21), highly qualified doctors and nurses, under the guardiance of PhD Boris Khersonsky at the beginning and later by Vladimir Gemusov (1939–2014), took care of elderly lonely people. The Center staff also provided medical care and social protection to elderly lonely people at home. Two ambulance cars served the Centre.\n\nYouth Charitable Institution \"Humanist\" (May 15, 1990, Odessa, the USSR), which with the active participation of high-school students and students of Odessa secondary and higher educational medical institutions, under the leadership of Lyubov Bogomolova,[20] regularly provided social, medical and psychological care for elderly people who live alone. Two ambulance cars served the elderly people.\n\nThe Fund responded to individual requests for support from persons and organizations deserving consideration, namely:\n\n– Supported solo exhibition of paintings be an Odessa artist Zoya Ivnytskaya in Western Berlin, FRG (October 1989 – January 1990);\n\n– Provided the necessary support to an Odessa pianist Sergei Terentyev (1990, Odessa,the Ukrainian SSR);\n\n– Provided financial assistance to the newspaper \"Moscow News\", whose office was damaged by the fire (March 14, 1990, Moscow, the USSR);\n\n– Provided financial assistance to the famous Soviet dissident and human rights activist Valery Abramkyn «Humanization of the prison system\" (April 23, Moscow, the USSR);\n\n– Provided financial assistance to the first hospice in the Soviet Union (September 26, 1990, Leningrad, the USSR);\n\n– Provided financial support to the Institute for Economic Strategies (October 17, 1990, Moscow, the USSR).\n\nThe Fund founded Center for Psychological and Social Support (November 15, 1990, Odessa,the USSR), including youth service helpline, under the supervision of a physician Leopold Mendelson. Every night it provided emergency psychological assistance to young people who found themselves in difficult life situations. Center initiated the creation of the Association of hotlines (1990), the Ukrainian association of telephone consultants (1992), as well as the International Workshop telephone consultants.\n\nFor training the staff for charitable and social institutions at the Richelieu Lyceum College the Fund created Philanthropic college named after Alexander Men on the base of Richelieu Lyceum (January 1, 1990, Odessa, the Ukrainian SSR). The head of it was a teacher of Mathematics from the Lyceum Dora Chorokayeva.\n\nAlong with the building concern \"Primorskiy\" (Yuriy Kulbachenko) the Fund organized the program of free renovation of apartments of poor lonely elderly people. The programme was carried out under the guidance of an experienced builder Vladimir Anenberg (1921–2004).\n\nIt created the first in the country financial company – Joint-stock financial investment company \"Fund\" (May 7, 1991, Odessa, the Ukrainian SSR) – which was designed to operate on the principles of philanthropic business. Charitable and social organizations became its stockholders.\n\nOn January 26, 1991 together with the newspaper \"Vechernyaya Odessa\" the Fund appealed to all citizens of Odessa, non-governmental organizations, labor groups, government bodies, people's deputies and their councils to create a necessary social citywide programme \"Miloserdiye\" (Mercy) to ensure social assistance for each person in need\n\nThe Fund initiated the establishment of the Association of Charitable organizations in Odessa (October 16, 1991). Its government was to be formed of journalists, in order to promote the process of establishment, operation and protection of charitable organizations, willing to work in Odessa.\n\nThe Fund represented by the Head Alexander Muchnik contributed to the creation of the Center for Rehabilitation of Disabled Children \"Maibutnye\" (Future), better known as the \"House with the angel\".\n\nThe Fund financed the treatment of a cancer patient at the Medical Center \"Cyber Clinic of Spizhenko.\" (September 17, 2014; September 24, 2015; October 9, 2015).\n\nThe Fund organized the first in the country international conference of charitable organizations \"Kindness and peace\" ( October 4–7, 1990, Odessa, the Ukrainian SSR).\n\nFruitful activity of the Fund fairly quickly gained international recognition.\n\nOn May 28, 1991 A. G. Muchnik made a presentation on the history and activities of the Fund in the Center for the Study of Philanthropy (New York City, United States), and a brochure was published by the Centre and distributed among the US charitable organizations.\n\nOn July 15, 1991 Muchnik gave a presentation on the activities of the Fund in the United Nations Office at Vienna Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs (Vienna, Austria).\n\nOn November 24–29, 1992 Dr Haaz Social Assistance Fund sent Hero of Ukraine Boris Litvak as the president of the Fund to a seminar of the UN Department in Vienna. On June 3, 1993 Head of the Department of the UN in Vienna Henry Sokalski sent a letter to the president of Dr Haaz Social Assistance Fund, with a statement of full support from his part, and calling for future sponsors to assist the project of Children's rehabilitation center in Odessa.\n\nThe Partner is the Society of friends of Dr. F.J. Haass (Bad Münstereifel, Germany).\n\n"}
{"id": "2891001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2891001", "title": "Drunk tank", "text": "Drunk tank\n\nA drunk tank is a jail cell or separate facility accommodating people who are intoxicated, especially with alcohol. Some such facilities are mobile, and may be spoken of as \"booze buses\". \n\nTraditionally, and in some jurisdictions currently, the circumstances of drunk-tank occupants may vary widely, as to whether in fact intoxicated, whether willingly there, whether isolated to protect them from others, confined to protect others from them, or simply permitted to find shelter, and whether legally under arrest, charged with an offense, or neither. Those in need of more long-term treatment may be referred to a rehabilitation center.\n\nIn some countries of Europe, such modern institutions are known by names that may be translated as \"sobering-up station\" or similar.\n\nIn the Czech Republic the name is \"Protialkoholní záchytná stanice\", colloquially \"Záchytka\". The first such institution in Czechoslovakia was opened in 1951 by psychiatrist Jaroslav Skála; its first patient was a Russian naval engineer. During its first 30 years of service, Prague's sobering-up station treated over 180,000 people. Other facilities in the country treated over 1,000,000 people. During its peak in Czechoslovakia, there were over 63 such institutions.\n\nIn Estonia, (sobering up house) exist in the biggest cities. Most of the clients there are brought forcefully by police to sober up if a person poses a threat to the public or themselves. One will not be released until sober (up to 24 hours).\n\nIn Poland a sobering-up chamber (\"Izba wytrzeźwień\") exists in bigger cities. As of 2013, there were 52 in Poland, and each year they host about 300,000 people. Being drunk by itself is not an offence, but police may place a person in a drunk tank if they're found wandering on roads, during harsh weather etc. through they will often be returned to their houses; many people taken to the drunk tanks are declared violent and a danger for others.\n\nSobering-up chambers can charge fees just like hotels, and they often chose the most expensive price allowed by law, which is why they are often called \"the most expensive hotel in town\".\n\nSuch institutions, known as \"Vytrezvitel\" (, literally a \"soberator\"), were introduced in 1904 in Tula, Russia, by Fedor Archangelskiy, a surgeon. The reason that Tula pioneered the issue, not St. Petersburg or Moscow, was because Tula Arms Plant weaponmakers were freezing to death in snowbanks on the backstreets of the city on a daily basis right after the salary was paid. The plant's management could not afford to lose their best and most skilled craftsmen, it took them a lot of time to substitute the departed, so they supported the effort. Back then the Tsar's government didn't pay much attention to the Vytrezvitels, they were locally managed by municipal authorities and volunteers on their own discretion, because the unskilled workforce was so cheap that nobody really cared much about frozen and drowned drunks. It was the bolsheviks, who didn't neglect their labour force and did pay much attention to institutionalize the sobering procedures and all the people involved, in order to prevent drunk workers from freezing or drowning somewhere unsupervised, or causing other troubles. In 1940 the Vytrezvitels became state-run facilities, they were detached as separate units within the NKVD and later MVD structure, police patrols and DNDs, dispatched for their routine raids, collected drunks from the streets to police vans, moving them to Vytrezvitels and holding them in custody until they sober up, employing force if necessary. Rampant and disorderly drunks or otherwise inappropriately behaving persons, as well as DTs and alcohol- or narcotics-triggered mental cases were handed over to medical authorities, who had then and have now specially detailed medical personnel, whose primary mission is to neutralize, or subdue into submission, and drag disorderly drunks into a ward, and forcibly administer medications if required.\n\nThe Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia issued a medal to commemorate the 70th anniversary of state-run Vytrezvitels.\n\nIn Sweden the sobering-up units are located at police stations around the country. Colloquially known as \"fyllecell\" or drunk cell, the cell is for holding people who are too intoxicated to take care of themselves or when their intoxication poses a danger to themselves or other people. Being drunk in public is not an offense in Sweden and does not lead to any charges, but repeat \"offenders\" can have their driver's license revoked.\n\nIn Switzerland, intoxicated persons can be placed into a sobering-up cell when they pose a danger to themselves or society. While public intoxication is not a crime \"per se\", some police departments assess a fee for the use of their facilities and the related personnel costs incurred by the intoxicated party. For instance, the Zürich Stadtpolizei charges 450-600 Swiss francs for a night in the \"ZAB\", or \"Zürich Sobering-up and Supervision Site\" (), which is informally referred to as \"Hotel Suff\" (\"Hotel Booze\").\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the idea of privately run drunk tanks (or \"welfare centres\"), separate from police stations and funded by the penalties issued against those held there, was discussed in 2013 and gained support from the Association of Chief Police Officers. Mobile drunk tanks, also known as \"booze buses\", and officially as \"alcohol recovery centres\", have since been introduced in some cities (Bristol being the first to do so). Newcastle calls its bus a \"safe haven van\" and parks it next to St John Ambulance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13006068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13006068", "title": "Emotional exhaustion", "text": "Emotional exhaustion\n\nEmotional exhaustion is a chronic state of physical and emotional depletion that results from excessive job and/or personal demands and continuous stress. It describes a feeling of being emotionally overextended and exhausted by one's work. It is manifested by both physical fatigue and a sense of feeling psychologically and emotionally \"drained\". \n\nMost emotional exhaustion research has been guided by Maslach's and Jackson's three-component conceptualization of burnout. This model suggests burnout consists of three interrelated parts: emotional exhaustion, depersonalization, and diminished personal accomplishment. Diminished personal accomplishment refers to negative evaluations of the self.\n\nThe level of emotional exhaustion which is experienced by an employee is influenced by a variety of determinants, such as: personal resources, coping strategies, emotional culture, and supervisory regulation of display rules.\n\nPersonal resources, such as status, social support, money or shelter, may reduce or prevent an employee's emotional exhaustion.\n\nAccording to the Conservation of Resources theory (COR), people strive to obtain, retain and protect their personal resources, either instrumental (e.g., money or shelter), social (e.g., social support or status) or psychological (e.g., self-esteem or sense of autonomy). The COR's theory suggest that people must invest resources in order to protect against resource loss, recover from losses, and regain resources. Therefore, those with greater resources are less vulnerable to resource loss and more capable of orchestrating resource gain, whereas, for those with fewer resources, ongoing resource loss may result in a rapid influential loss spiral.\n\nIn a field study, those experiencing higher levels of job autonomy (the freedom to take initiative and exercise discretion in decision-making), low task complexity, supervisory support, and the internal locus of control (a tendency to attribute events to one's own control; such as the tendency to attribute a success to internal causes, like one's ability or effort, rather than external causes, such as good luck), tend to experience lower degrees of emotional exhaustion.\n\nSimilarly, researchers reveal that even though higher degree of using emotion regulation on the job is related to higher levels of employees' emotional exhaustion, when employees believe that they have autonomy in their job behaviors, emotion regulation, that is otherwise exhausting, is not associated with exhaustion at all.\n\nAnother field study, basing on a sample of call-center workers in a large telecommunications corporation, indicate that employees who are highly identified with the service work, possess higher levels of self-efficacy (the belief in one's ability to succeed;), and receive social support from their supervisors, are less likely to experience emotional exhaustion.\n\nResearchers suggest that emotional exhaustion may be a result of using inadequate strategies in order to cope with problematic events on the job.\n\nAccordingly, there are empirical evidences that employees who tend to use more control strategies, which are considered more productive strategies (concerned with addressing the situation; such as direct action and help seeking) tend to experience lower levels of emotional exhaustion than do those who tend to use more escape strategies, which are considered inadequate strategies (used to avoid problems; such as avoidance and resignation with the problematic situation).\n\nRegional and national cultures have been shown to have different norms for emotional expressions, and vary in their expectations for regulating and expressing emotions in the workplace. Such differences are part of the emotional culture of those cultures. For example, some cultures are more institutionally-oriented, with strong norms about regulating emotions to fulfill institutional roles and standards, whereas other cultures are more impulsively-oriented that value expressing unregulated emotions.\n\nAn example of a culture with a strong institutional-orientation toward emotions is the United States, due to the strong American norm to act positively and hide negative feelings (\"the service with a smile\" norm); whereas France can be used as an example of a country with a more impulsive-orientation toward emotions.\n\nPeople within cultures that tend to use an impulsive orientation to understand and evaluate social situations are likely to feel more personal control over their expressions than people within institutional-oriented cultures, resulting in more of a buffer against strain and emotional exhaustion.\n\nOn the basis of those arguments, an organizational research investigated the influence of emotional culture on the degree of emotional exhaustion experienced by employees who work on jobs that include interaction with clients and emotional labor demands. In this study, among employees working at such jobs, those who belonged to more impulsive-oriented culture (France) showed lower degrees of emotional exhaustion, than those who belonged to more institutional-oriented culture (U.S.).\n\nSupervisors are likely to be important definers of interpersonal demands at the job level, given their direct influence on worker's beliefs about high-performance expectations. Moreover, supervisors' impressions of the importance of display rules (the rules about what kind of emotions are allowed to be expressed on the job) influence the employees' impressions of these display rules.\n\nRecent study also suggests that employees who hold the same job (e.g., call center representatives) may experience the same \"display rules\" differently if they work for different supervisors, who vary in the emphasis they place on their subordinates' interpersonal role requirements, and by so, experience different levels of emotional exhaustion. Such that having a supervisor who places greater importance on interpersonal job demands results in greater emotional exhaustion (especially for those subordinates who have low career identity) .\n\nCurrent models of how emotion regulation impacts strain focus on \"intraindividual\" processes that operate within the mind and body of the person regulating the emotion, but these models have several limitations.\n\nCote (2005) suggests a social interaction model that takes into account these limitations. In this model, work strain is predicted according to:\n\nAccording to Cote (2005), interpersonal feedback is far more potent than intraindividual feedback, and dominates if the two processes are in opposition. The social interaction model suggests an alternate route by which to proceed with theory building and future research.\n\nResearches have linked emotional exhaustion to a plethora of ailments, and a general breakdown in feelings of community. However, a growing body of research has begun to demonstrate that emotional exhaustion can have deleterious consequences for organizations as well; \n\nFor example, Russell Cropanzano and his colleagues, in their two field studies, indicate that exhausted employees show lower organizational commitment, lower job performance, less organizational citizenship behaviors (OCB) directed toward the organization (OCBO) and their supervisors (OCBS), and higher turnover intentions. They suggest that emotional exhaustion can be seen as a cost that qualifies the value of any benefits received through employment, and so that an organization, which overworks its employees to the point of emotional exhaustion, may be seen as unfair.\n\nSimilarly, longitudinal studies found that exhausted employees show not only lower job performance, but also more absences, and greater likelihood of seeking employment elsewhere (actual voluntary turnover).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28322478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28322478", "title": "Engineering World Health", "text": "Engineering World Health\n\nEngineering World Health (EWH) is a non-profit organization that works with hospitals and clinics that serve resource-poor communities of the developing world. EWH's focus is on the repair and maintenance of medical equipment - rather than donation - and on building local capacity to manage and maintain the equipment without international aid.\n\nEngineering professors Robert Malkin and Mohammad Kiani established EWH in Memphis in 2001. In 2004, Dr. Malkin and EWH relocated to Duke University, which has been an active partner since that time. As a result of this partnership, EWH is headquartered in Durham, NC. In 2008, EWH received a multi-year grant from the Wallace H. Coulter Foundation.\n\nEngineering World Health's signature program is the Summer & January Institutes. These service abroad programs engage university-level science and engineering students to use their skills and knowledge to make a direct impact on hospitals in developing countries. Participants spend three to nine weeks in Nicaragua, Rwanda, Tanzania, Guatemala, Cambodia, or Nepal learning hands-on technical skills and the local language, and then working in local hospitals to install, repair, and maintain medical equipment. Participants also train local staff, empowering them to use and maintain equipment, to create lasting improvements in partner hospitals.\n\nSince 2004, over 600 participants have repaired almost 5,800 pieces of hospital equipment, worth an estimated US$12 million.\n\nSeeking a sustainable solution to hospital equipment repair, Engineering World Health started a biomedical equipment technician (BMET) training program in late 2009, in partnership with the GE Foundation. Through a three to four year curriculum tailored to each country's needs, EWH works with a local educational institution and Ministry of Health to train BMETs to international standards, train local teachers to carry on the program in the long term, and establish a permanent, accredited BMET training program.\n\nThe first BMET Training program began in Rwanda, and has since placed trained BMETs in every district in the country. Thanks to further funding from the GE Foundation, EWH has completed a training program Honduras and turned it over to local leadership, and, as of 2016, is training BMETs in Cambodia, Nigeria, and Ethiopia.\n\nEngineering World Health has student chapters at 45 universities around the world. These Chapters engage students in activities as design projects for the developing world, biomedical equipment repair and evaluation, and raising awareness of global health challenges. Chapters may also get involved in the EWH Design Competition in which teams of engineering students submit a design directed at the needs of developing country healthcare. The top three teams are selected by an independent panel of judges and are then rewarded with cash prizes, giving them a chance to implement their device.\n\nIn 2016, EWH launched an open-source digital library for BMETs, with the goal of facilitating and fostering information exchange among engineers and technicians around the world. This library is a collection of open source books and publications containing information useful for training (BMETs), particularly in the developing countries where EWH is working.\n\n"}
{"id": "1998027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1998027", "title": "Environmental hazard", "text": "Environmental hazard\n\nAn environmental hazard is a substance, a state or an event which has the potential to threaten the surrounding natural environment / or adversely affect people's health, including pollution and natural disasters such as storms and earthquakes.\n\nAny single or combination of toxic chemical, biological, or physical agents in the environment, resulting from human activities or natural processes, that may impact the health of exposed subjects, including pollutants such as heavy metals, pesticides, biological contaminants, toxic waste, industrial and home chemicals.\n\nHuman-made hazards while not immediately health-threatening may turn out detrimental to man's well-being eventually, because deterioration in the environment can produce secondary, unwanted negative effects on the human ecosphere. The effects of water pollution may not be immediately visible because of a sewage system that helps drain off toxic substances. If those substances turn out to be persistent (e.g. persistent organic pollutant), however, they will literally be fed back to their producers via the food chain: plankton -> edible fish -> humans. In that respect, a considerable number of environmental hazards listed below are man-made (anthropogenic) hazards.\n\nHazards can be categorized in four types:\n\nChemical hazards are defined in the Globally Harmonized System and in the European Union chemical regulations. They are caused by chemical substances causing significant damage to the environment. The label is particularly applicable towards substances with aquatic toxicity. An example is zinc oxide, a common paint pigment, which is extremely toxic to aquatic life.\n\nToxicity or other hazards do not imply an environmental hazard, because elimination by sunlight (photolysis), water (hydrolysis) or organisms (biological elimination) neutralizes many reactive or poisonous substances. Persistence towards these elimination mechanisms combined with toxicity gives the substance the ability to do damage in the long term. Also, the lack of immediate human toxicity does not mean the substance is environmentally nonhazardous. For example, tanker truck-sized spills of substances such as milk can cause a lot of damage in the local aquatic ecosystems: the added biological oxygen demand causes rapid eutrophication, leading to anoxic conditions in the water body.\n\nAll hazards in this category are mainly anthropogenic although there exist a number of natural carcinogens and chemical elements like radon and lead may turn up in health-critical concentrations in the natural environment:\n\nA physical hazard is a type of occupational hazard that involves environmental hazards that can cause harm with or without contact. \n\nBiological hazards, also known as biohazards, refer to biological substances that pose a threat to the health of living organisms, primarily that of humans. This can include medical waste or samples of a microorganism, virus or toxin (from a biological source) that can affect human health. \n\n\nPsychosocial hazards include but aren't limited to stress, violence and other workplace stressors. Work is generally beneficial to mental health and personal wellbeing. It provides people with structure and purpose and a sense of identity.\n\nBanana"}
{"id": "52339487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52339487", "title": "Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Lisbon", "text": "Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Lisbon\n\nThe Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Lisbon (FFULisboa) is a Portuguese public institution of higher education dedicated to education, research, knowledge transfer and continuing education in the fields of pharmacy, medicine, and pharmaceutical sciences.\n\nThe FFULisboa is a recognized institution at the national and international level. The courses that grant an academic degree are accredited by the Agency for Assessment and Accreditation of Higher Education (A3ES) and the Integrated Master in Pharmaceutical Sciences is also accredited by the Portuguese Pharmaceutical Society (Ordem dos Farmacêuticos) for professional practice.\n\nWith the motto, \"By knowledge, by innovation,\" the FFULisboa takes an active role in the dissemination within the field of Pharmaceutical Sciences and further activities addressed to the community regarding public health. Promoting a culture of internationalization, it is associated to many of its academic counterparts and other relevant national and international institutions, in educational and scientific projects, exchange programs and other partnerships.\n\nThe Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Lisbon was born in 1836 as a School of Pharmacy integrated in the Medical-Surgical School of Lisbon, in which the teaching in the field of pharmacy was assumed by the apothecary of St Joseph's Hospital. With the establishment of the University of Lisbon in March 1911, the School of Pharmacy remained attached to the same institution, now known as Faculty of Medicine of the University of Lisbon.\n\nBy Decree No. 4653 of July 14, 1918, it gained autonomy and was named as the Pharmacy School of the University of Lisbon. It continued, however, to share the facilities of the Faculty of Medicine, in a precarious and inadequate situation. Quinta da Torrinha was bought in 1920 to resolve this situation and to build its own facilities. It would be from this former farm that later the Campus (Cidade Universitária) would be created.\n\nIn 1921, by Decree No. 7238 of January 18, the School gets the status of the Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Lisbon and assigns bachelor and doctoral degrees in pharmacy. In 1932, it was extinguished along with its counterpart of Coimbra, giving way again to a Superior School of Pharmacy, which only granted a bachelor's degree; only in the University of Porto the Faculty of Pharmacy has remained, where were also given the degrees of graduate (\"licenciado\") and doctor. This would only be reversed in 1968, when it was restored the Pharmacy Faculties of Coimbra and Lisbon, placing them on an equal footing with the Porto academy.\n\nToday, the FFULisboa teaches various curricular units, some of them in hospital environment. Through these, and project curricular units, students are offered a direct relationship interaction with the pharmaceutical profession as well as with the scientific research that is carried out at the faculty's Research Units.\n\nFFULisboa provides courses covering all higher education cycles by integrating different areas associated with the professional performance of pharmacists and scientific development in the field of pharmaceutical sciences.\n\nThis course enables the Master in pharmaceutical sciences for qualified professional practice, recognized by the Portuguese Pharmaceutical Society, including the following activities:\n\nCourse outline:\n\n\nThe Integrated Master in Pharmaceutical Sciences of FFULisboa is accredited by the Agency for Assessment and Accreditation of Higher Education and the Portuguese Pharmaceutical Society, enabling the practice in Europe.\n\n\nSupported by several doctoral programmes, such as:\n\nSince 2016, the FFULisboa has included the following departments in its organizational structure:\n\nScientific research in FFULisboa is ensured by the Research Institute for Medicines (iMed.ULisboa) which integrates more than 200 researchers, focusing its activity in four main areas, the so-called 3DU:\nThe iMed.ULisboa has 15 research groups working on basic and translational research in the area of therapeutic innovation. This research institute encourages research across the spectrum of drug development, from laboratory to pre-clinical studies, promoting a response to scientific challenges in emerging areas, such as aging and related diseases, diabetes, cancer, neurodegeneration, osteoarticular degeneration, inflammatory, infectious and metabolic diseases.\n\nThe research involves collaborations with various universities, research centers, hospitals, pharmaceutical industry, national and international regulatory agencies in the Medicines area. It has been fostering the realization of scientific projects, financially supported at national and international level. The results and the teams have been internationally recognized and awarded.\n\nIn the context of research and teaching, FFULisboa invests in interdisciplinary partnerships with other Schools of ULisboa in order to develop new cross-cutting areas of knowledge, participating in important networks, such as:\n\nThe FFULisboa provides to the general public, as well as public and private entities, a number of specialized services that result from the application of translational research performed at the school in the clinical, instrumental and industrial context, including:\n\nThe FFULisboa has been awarded in 2013 with the Medal of Honor of the Portuguese Pharmaceutical Society.\n\nTo strengthen the internationalization of teaching and scientific research, FFULisboa cooperates with similar institutions and various agencies and entities in the mobility and training of students, teachers and researchers.\n\nIn the context of an international scientific policy, FFULisboa maintains partnerships with foreign consortiums to attract graduate students and get competitive funding.\n\nStrategic cooperation encourages the development, innovation, internationalization and the attractiveness of the institution with students, teachers and international researchers. The FFULisboa participates in international programs and integrates international research networks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28086840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28086840", "title": "Fritiof S. Sjöstrand", "text": "Fritiof S. Sjöstrand\n\nFritiof Stig Sjöstrand (November 5, 1912 – April 6, 2011) was a Swedish physician and histologist born in Stockholm. He started his medical education at Karolinska Institutet in 1933, where he received his Ph.D. Karolinska Institutet in 1944. Sjöstrand worked as an assistant at the department of pharmacology, where he first had used polarization microscopy, he first heard about the new method of electron microscopy in 1938, within which he would become a pioneer. Manne Siegbahn at the Nobel Institute for Physics had planned to build an electron microscope in Sweden, and Sjöstrand got involved in the project to explore its use in medical research. The main challenge was to produce sufficiently thin samples, and Sjöstrand's method for producing ultrathin tissue samples was published in \"Nature\" in 1943. However, it seemed that research based on electron microscopy would be too time-consuming for a Ph.D. thesis, so his 1944 thesis was based on fluorescence spectroscopy. In 1947-1948, he received a scholarship to further study electron microscopy at Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Department of Biology. Back in Sweden, he received funding to build up an electron microscopy research laboratory. In 1959, Sjöstrand was both offered a position as professor of histology at Karolinska Institutet, and as professor at University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). He chose UCLA, because conditions for research and funding were better there.\n\nSjöstrand founded the \"Journal of Ultrastructure Research\" in 1957. Since 1990, the journal has been called the \"Journal of Structural Biology\".\n\nSjöstrand died on April 6, 2011, at the age of 98.\n\nIn the recognition of Fritiof Sjöstrand's contribution to the development of electron microscopy, the Annual Sjöstrand Lecture series was set up in 2018 in Sweden. A holder of the lectureship particularly commits to spend time with students and postdocs at SciLifeLab. The Inaugural Lecture is given by Venki Ramakrishnan on 27th August 2018 at the Karolinska Institute and entitled ’Termination of translation in bacteria and eukaryotes'. The 2019 lecture will be given by Jennifer Doudna. \n\n"}
{"id": "11877595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11877595", "title": "Gland of Zeis", "text": "Gland of Zeis\n\nGlands of Zeis are unilobar sebaceous glands located on the margin of the eyelid. The glands of Zeis service the eyelash. These glands produce an oily substance that is issued through the excretory ducts of the sebaceous lobule into the middle portion of the hair follicle. In the same area of the eyelid, near the base of the eyelashes are apocrine glands called the \"glands of Moll\".\n\nIf eyelashes are not kept clean, conditions such as folliculitis may take place, and if the sebaceous gland becomes infected, it can lead to abscesses and styes. The glands of Zeis are named after German ophthalmologist Eduard Zeis (1807–68).\n\n"}
{"id": "19574596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19574596", "title": "Global Handwashing Day", "text": "Global Handwashing Day\n\nGlobal Handwashing Day (GHD) is a campaign to motivate and mobilize people around the world to improve their handwashing habits. Washing hands at critical points during the day and washing with soap are both important. \n\nGlobal Handwashing Day occurs on 15 October of each year. The global campaign is dedicated to raising awareness of handwashing with soap as a key factor in disease prevention. Respiratory and intestinal diseases can be reduced by 25-50%.\n\nThe Global Handwashing Partnership (GHP) (formerly called \"Public Private Partnership for Handwashing\" (PPPHW)) established Global Handwashing Day in 2008 as a way to promote a global and local vision of handwashing with soap.\n\nSteering Committee members of the GHP include Colgate-Palmolive; FHI 360; The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine; Procter & Gamble; UNICEF; Unilever; University at Buffalo; USAID; the Water and Sanitation Programme at the World Bank; and the Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative Council.\n\nContinued research on handwashing habits and practices is commissioned in conjunction with GHD. In 2011, Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget (SCA), sponsored a study to assess the handwashing habits of American and Canadian adults, finding that many were not using soap when washing their hands.\n\nThe aims of Global Handwashing Day are to:\n\nEach year, over 200 million people celebrate Global Handwashing Day.\n\n\nGlobal Handwashing Day was initiated by the Global Handwashing Partnership (GHP) in August 2008 at the annual World Water Week in Stockholm, Sweden. This means that the first Global Handwashing Day took place on 15 October 2008. The date was appointed by the UN General Assembly. The year 2008 was also the International Year of Sanitation. The founding bodies in 2008 included: FHI360 (a nonprofit human development organization based in the US), US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Procter & Gamble, UNICEF, Unilever, World Bank Water & Sanitation Program and the United States Agency for International Development.\n\n\nTheme for Global Handwashing Day 2018: Clean Hands- a recipe for health\n\nThe campaign was initiated to reduce childhood mortality rates and related respiratory and diarrheal diseases by introducing simple behavioral changes, such as handwashing with soap. This simple action can reduce the mortality rate of respiratory disease by 25%. Death from diarrheal diseases can be reduced by 50%. Across the world, more than 60 percent of health workers do not adhere to proper hand hygiene. According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, US health care providers, on average, wash their hands less than half of the time they should. On any given day, one in 25 US hospital patients has at least one health care-associated infection.\n\nHandwashing with soap is very effective and the least expensive way to prevent diarrhea and acute respiratory infections. Pneumonia, a major ARI (acute respiratory infection), is the number one cause of mortality among children under five years old, killing an estimated 1.8 million children per year. Diarrhea and pneumonia together account for almost 3.5 million child deaths annually. Handwashing with soap is estimated to reduce cases of diarrhea by 30% and respiratory infections by 21% in children under the age of five.\n\nIt is important to make handwashing into a habit. Good handwashing with soap before eating and after using the toilet into a regular habit can save more lives than any single vaccine or medical intervention, cutting deaths from diarrhea by almost half and deaths from acute respiratory infections by one-quarter.\n\nHandwashing is usually done together with other sanitation interventions as part of water, sanitation and hygiene WASH programmes.\n\nThe Global Handwashing Day helps raise awareness of the importance of washing with soap, but it also makes it fun for children to get involved.\n\nProper hygiene requires that individuals know the importance of good hygiene and develop the habits to carry it out. There are people with plenty of money but nonetheless, they lack the important habits of timely handwashing with soap, and thereby unknowingly endanger themselves and others around them.\n\nPeer influence is significant to seeing increased handwashing among students. In a study conducted in Kenya, researchers found that students were much more likely to wash their hands when another student is present. Peer influence is only successful, however, when students know that handwashing is a desirable action.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) celebrates a World Hand Hygiene Day on 5 May. In 2018 the theme was prevention of sepsis in health care. The theme of the year before was to combat antibiotic resistance (AMR).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31133688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31133688", "title": "Health care ratings", "text": "Health care ratings\n\nHealth care ratings are ratings or evaluations of health care. In the United States they have been an increasingly used tool to try to drive accountability among health care providers and in the context of classic supply/demand view of Health economics, to help health care consumers make better choices.\n\nReviews in 2008 and 2009 review of research on the effects of health care ratings found that there was evidence that public ratings drove hospitals to improve their performance, but there was limited evidence that they affected how consumers choose health care providers or insurance plans, or that they changed the performance of individual doctors or insurance companies.\n\nIn may cases it is difficult to create health care ratings that can meaningfully summarize any individual provider's performance in a way that be compared with others', and data is often lacking with which to generate ratings.\n\nPeople may have difficulty finding the ratings, especially if they are negative. To make these reports more accessible, large philanthropies, including the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, have funded major initiatives that are focused on performance measurement like the Aligning Forces for Quality program.\n\nHealth system international comparisons\n"}
{"id": "11691353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11691353", "title": "Healthy Skepticism", "text": "Healthy Skepticism\n\nHealthy Skepticism Inc is an international non-profit organisation whose main aim is to \"improve health by reducing harm from misleading drug promotion\".\n\nHealthy Skepticism was founded in 1983 with the name Medical Lobby for Appropriate Marketing (MaLAM). It was begun by an Australian medical student, Peter R. Mansfield, who had the idea for the organization during his final year elective in Bangladesh in 1982. MaLAM initially focused on campaigning against questionable marketing practices in developing countries. These included the promotion of appetite stimulants, tonics and anabolic steroids to parents of malnourished children. MaLAM was modelled on Amnesty International and wrote open letters to the international headquarters of pharmaceutical companies questioning them about specific advertisements. MaLAM letters were signed by supporters around the world and contributed to many improvements in drug marketing, several products being removed from the market and many advertising claims changed. MaLAM reported more than 450 alleged violations of the voluntary code of conduct of the drug industry in 1987, and also questioned drug advertisements in Australia during 1993 to 1997 with funding from the Australian federal government.\n\nIn 2001, the organisation’s name was changed to Healthy Skepticism and its work widened to include research, education and advocacy about misleading drug promotion in all countries. It has concentrated recently on raising awareness amongst health professionals of the influence that marketing techniques have on their decisions, and the psychological factors which make them vulnerable to that influence.\n"}
{"id": "93827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93827", "title": "Human nutrition", "text": "Human nutrition\n\nHuman nutrition deals with the provision of essential nutrients in food that are necessary to support human life and health. Poor nutrition is a chronic problem often linked to poverty, food security or a poor understanding of nutrition and dietary practices. Malnutrition and its consequences are large contributors to deaths and disabilities worldwide. Good nutrition helps children grow physically, promotes human biological development and helps in the eradication of poverty.\nThe human body contains chemical compounds, such as water, carbohydrates, amino acids (in proteins), fatty acids (in lipids), and nucleic acids (DNA and RNA). These compounds are composed of elements such as carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus. Any study done to determine nutritional status must take into account the state of the body before and after experiments, as well as the chemical composition of the whole diet and of all the materials excreted and eliminated from the body (including urine and feces). Comparing food to waste material can help determine the specific compounds and elements absorbed and metabolized by the body. The effects of nutrients may only be discernible over an extended period of time, during which all food and waste must be analyzed. The number of variables involved in such experiments is high, making nutritional studies time-consuming and expensive, which explains why the science of human nutrition is still slowly evolving.\n\nThe seven major classes of nutrients are carbohydrates, fats, fiber, minerals, proteins, vitamins, and water. These nutrient classes are categorized as either macronutrients or micronutrients (needed in small quantities). The macronutrients are carbohydrates, fats, fiber, proteins, and water. The micronutrients are minerals and vitamins.\n\nThe macronutrients (excluding fiber and water) provide structural material (amino acids from which proteins are built, and lipids from which cell membranes and some signaling molecules are built), and energy. Some of the structural material can also be used to generate energy internally, and in either case it is measured in Joules or kilocalories (often called \"Calories\" and written with a capital 'C' to distinguish them from little 'c' calories). Carbohydrates and proteins provide 17 kJ approximately (4 kcal) of energy per gram, while fats provide 37 kJ (9 kcal) per gram, though the net energy from either depends on such factors as absorption and digestive effort, which vary substantially from instance to instance.\n\nVitamins, minerals, fiber, and water do not provide energy, but are required for other reasons. A third class of dietary material, fiber (i.e., nondigestible material such as cellulose), seems also to be required, for both mechanical and biochemical reasons, though the exact reasons remain unclear. For all age groups, males need to consume higher amounts of macronutrients than females. In general, intakes increase with age until the second or third decade of life.\n\nMolecules of carbohydrates and fats consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms. Carbohydrates range from simple monosaccharides (glucose, fructose, galactose) to complex polysaccharides (starch). Fats are triglycerides, made of assorted fatty acid monomers bound to a glycerol backbone. Some fatty acids, but not all, are essential in the diet: they cannot be synthesized in the body. Protein molecules contain nitrogen atoms in addition to carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen. The fundamental components of protein are nitrogen-containing amino acids, some of which are essential in the sense that humans cannot make them internally. Some of the amino acids are convertible (with the expenditure of energy) to glucose and can be used for energy production just as ordinary glucose. By breaking down existing protein, some glucose can be produced internally; the remaining amino acids are discarded, primarily as urea in urine. This occurs naturally when atrophy takes place, or during periods of starvation.\n\nCarbohydrates may be classified as monosaccharides, disaccharides or polysaccharides depending on the number of monomer (sugar) units they contain. They are a diverse group of substances, with a range of chemical, physical and physiological properties. They make up a large part of foods such as rice, noodles, bread, and other grain-based products, but they are not an essential nutrient, meaning a human does not need to eat carbohydrates.\n\nMonosaccharides contain one sugar unit, disaccharides two, and polysaccharides three or more. Monosaccharides include glucose, fructose and galactose. Disaccharides include sucrose, lactose, and maltose; purified sucrose, for instance, is used as table sugar. Polysaccharides, which include starch and glycogen, are often referred to as 'complex' carbohydrates because they are typically long multiple-branched chains of sugar units. The difference is that complex carbohydrates take longer to digest and absorb since their sugar units must be separated from the chain before absorption. The spike in blood glucose levels after ingestion of simple sugars is thought to be related to some of the heart and vascular diseases, which have become more common in recent times. Simple sugars form a greater part of modern diets than in the past, perhaps leading to more cardiovascular disease. The degree of causation is still not clear.\n\nSimple carbohydrates are absorbed quickly, and therefore raise blood-sugar levels more rapidly than other nutrients. However, the most important plant carbohydrate nutrient, starch, varies in its absorption. Gelatinized starch (starch heated for a few minutes in the presence of water) is far more digestible than plain starch, and starch which has been divided into fine particles is also more absorbable during digestion. The increased effort and decreased availability reduces the available energy from starchy foods substantially and can be seen experimentally in rats and anecdotally in humans. Additionally, up to a third of dietary starch may be unavailable due to mechanical or chemical difficulty.\n\nA molecule of dietary fat typically consists of several fatty acids (containing long chains of carbon and hydrogen atoms), bonded to a glycerol. They are typically found as triglycerides (three fatty acids attached to one glycerol backbone). Fats may be classified as saturated or unsaturated depending on the chemical structure of the fatty acids involved. Saturated fats have all of the carbon atoms in their fatty acid chains bonded to hydrogen atoms, whereas unsaturated fats have some of these carbon atoms double-bonded, so their molecules have relatively fewer hydrogen atoms than a saturated fatty acid of the same length. Unsaturated fats may be further classified as monounsaturated (one double-bond) or polyunsaturated (many double-bonds). Furthermore, depending on the location of the double-bond in the fatty acid chain, unsaturated fatty acids are classified as omega-3 or omega-6 fatty acids. Trans fats are a type of unsaturated fat with \"trans\"-isomer bonds; these are rare in nature and in foods from natural sources; they are typically created in an industrial process called (partial) hydrogenation.\n\nMany studies have shown that consumption of unsaturated fats, particularly monounsaturated fats, is associated with better health in humans. Saturated fats, typically from animal sources, are next in order of preference, while trans fats are associated with a variety of disease and should be avoided. Saturated and some trans fats are typically solid at room temperature (such as butter or lard), while unsaturated fats are typically liquids (such as olive oil or flaxseed oil). Trans fats are very rare in nature, but have properties useful in the food processing industry, such as rancidity resistance.\n\nMost fatty acids are not essential, meaning the body can produce them as needed, generally from other fatty acids and always by expending energy to do so. However, in humans, at least two fatty acids are essential and must be included in the diet. An appropriate balance of essential fatty acids – omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids – seems also important for health, though definitive experimental demonstration has been elusive. Both of these \"omega\" long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids are substrates for a class of eicosanoids known as prostaglandins, which have roles throughout the human body. They are hormones, in some respects. The omega-3 eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), which can be made in the human body from the omega-3 essential fatty acid alpha-linolenic acid (LNA), or taken in through marine food sources, serves as a building block for series 3 prostaglandins (e.g. weakly inflammatory PGE3). The omega-6 dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid (DGLA) serves as a building block for series 1 prostaglandins (e.g. anti-inflammatory PGE1), whereas arachidonic acid (AA) serves as a building block for series 2 prostaglandins (e.g., pro-inflammatory PGE 2). Both DGLA and AA can be made from the omega-6 linoleic acid (LA) in the human body, or can be taken in directly through food. An appropriately balanced intake of omega-3 and omega-6 partly determines the relative production of different prostaglandins: one reason a balance between omega-3 and omega-6 is believed important for cardiovascular health. In industrialized societies, people typically consume large amounts of processed vegetable oils, which have reduced amounts of the essential fatty acids along with too much of omega-6 fatty acids relative to omega-3 fatty acids.\n\nDietary fiber is a carbohydrate, specifically a polysaccharide, which is incompletely absorbed in humans and in some animals. Like all carbohydrates, when it is metabolized, it can produce four Calories (kilocalories) of energy per gram, but in most circumstances, it accounts for less than that because of its limited absorption and digestibility. The two subcategories are insoluble and soluble fiber. Insoluble dietary fiber consists mainly of cellulose, a large carbohydrate polymer that is indigestible by humans, because humans do not have the required enzymes to break it down, and the human digestive system does not harbor enough of the types of microbes that can do so. Soluble dietary fiber comprises a variety of oligosaccharides, waxes, esters, resistant starches, and other carbohydrates that dissolve or gelatinize in water. Many of these soluble fibers can be fermented or partially fermented by microbes in the human digestive system to produce short-chain fatty acids which are absorbed and therefore introduce some caloric content.\n\nWhole grains, beans and other legumes, fruits (especially plums, prunes, and figs), and vegetables are good sources of dietary fiber. Fiber is important to digestive health and is thought to reduce the risk of colon cancer. For mechanical reasons, fiber can help in alleviating both constipation and diarrhea. Fiber provides bulk to the intestinal contents, and insoluble fiber especially stimulates peristalsis – the rhythmic muscular contractions of the intestines which move digesta along the digestive tract. Some soluble fibers produce a solution of high viscosity; this is essentially a gel, which slows the movement of food through the intestines. Additionally, fiber, perhaps especially that from whole grains, may help lessen insulin spikes and reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes.\n\nProteins are the basis of many animal body structures (e.g. muscles, skin, and hair) and form the enzymes which catalyse chemical reactions throughout the body. Each protein molecule is composed of amino acids which contain nitrogen and sometimes sulphur (these components are responsible for the distinctive smell of burning protein, such as the keratin in hair). The body requires amino acids to produce new proteins (protein retention) and to replace damaged proteins (maintenance). Amino acids are soluble in the digestive juices within the small intestine, where they are absorbed into the blood. Once absorbed, they cannot be stored in the body, so they are either metabolized as required or excreted in the urine.\n\nProteins consist of amino acids in different proportions. The most important aspect and defining characteristic of protein from a nutritional standpoint is its amino acid composition. Amino acids which an animal cannot synthesize on its own from smaller molecules are deemed essential. The synthesis of some amino acids can be limited under special pathophysiological conditions, such as prematurity in the infant or individuals in severe catabolic distress, and those are called conditionally essential.\n\nA vegetarian diet can adequately supply protein, support pregnancy, childhood and athletic endeavors, and lower the risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer.\n\nDietary minerals are the chemical elements required by living organisms, other than the four elements carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen that are present in nearly all organic molecules. The term \"mineral\" is archaic, since the intent is to describe simply the less common elements in the diet. Some are heavier than the four just mentioned – including several metals, which often occur as ions in the body. Some dietitians recommend that these be supplied from foods in which they occur naturally, or at least as complex compounds, or sometimes even from natural inorganic sources (such as calcium carbonate from ground oyster shells). Some are absorbed much more readily in the ionic forms found in such sources. On the other hand, minerals are often artificially added to the diet as supplements; the most well-known is likely iodine in iodized salt which prevents goiter.\n\ninclude the following:\n\nMany elements are required in smaller amounts (microgram quantities), usually because they play a catalytic role in enzymes. Some trace mineral elements (RDA < 200 mg/day) are, in alphabetical order:\n\nAs with the minerals discussed above, some vitamins are recognized as essential nutrients, necessary in the diet for good health. (Vitamin D is the exception: it can alternatively be synthesized in the skin, in the presence of UVB radiation.) Certain vitamin-like compounds that are recommended in the diet, such as carnitine, are thought useful for survival and health, but these are not \"essential\" dietary nutrients because the human body has some capacity to produce them from other compounds. Moreover, thousands of different phytochemicals have recently been discovered in food (particularly in fresh vegetables), which may have desirable properties including antioxidant activity (see below); experimental demonstration has been suggestive but inconclusive. Other essential nutrients not classed as vitamins include essential amino acids (see above), essential fatty acids (see above), and the minerals discussed in the preceding section.\n\nVitamin deficiencies may result in disease conditions: goiter, scurvy, osteoporosis, impaired immune system, disorders of cell metabolism, certain forms of cancer, symptoms of premature aging, and poor psychological health (including eating disorders), among many others.\n\nMalnutrition refers to insufficient, excessive, or imbalanced consumption of nutrients. In developed countries, the diseases of malnutrition are most often associated with nutritional imbalances or excessive consumption.\nAlthough there are more people in the world who are malnourished due to excessive consumption, according to the United Nations World Health Organization, the greatest challenge in developing nations today is not starvation, but insufficient nutrition – the lack of nutrients necessary for the growth and maintenance of vital functions. The causes of malnutrition are directly linked to inadequate macronutrient consumption and disease, and are indirectly linked to factors like “household food security, maternal and child care, health services, and the environment.” \n\nResearch indicates that improving the awareness of nutritious meal choices and establishing long-term habits of healthy eating has a positive effect on a cognitive and spatial memory capacity, potentially increasing a student's potential to process and retain academic information. \n\nSome organizations have begun working with teachers, policymakers, and managed foodservice contractors to mandate improved nutritional content and increased nutritional resources in school cafeterias from primary to university level institutions. Health and nutrition have been proven to have close links with overall educational success. Currently less than 10% of American college students report that they eat the recommended five servings of fruit and vegetables daily. Better nutrition has been shown to affect both cognitive and spatial memory performance; a study showed those with higher blood sugar levels performed better on certain memory tests. In another study, those who consumed yogurt performed better on thinking tasks when compared to those who consumed caffeine free diet soda or confections. Nutritional deficiencies have been shown to have a negative effect on learning behavior in mice as far back as 1951.\"Better learning performance is associated with diet induced effects on learning and memory ability\".\n\n\nNutritional supplement treatment may be appropriate for major depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and obsessive compulsive disorder, the four most common mental disorders in developed countries. It is because Lakhan and Vieira mentioned that the supplements possess amino acids that may change into neurotransmitters and improve mental disorders. Supplements that have been studied most for mood elevation and stabilization include eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid (each of which are an omega-3 fatty acid contained in fish oil, but not in flaxseed oil), vitamin B, folic acid, and inositol.\n\nCancer has become common in developing countries. According to a study by the International Agency for Research on Cancer, \"In the developing world, cancers of the liver, stomach and esophagus were more common, often linked to consumption of carcinogenic preserved foods, such as smoked or salted food, and parasitic infections that attack organs.\" Lung cancer rates are rising rapidly in poorer nations because of increased use of tobacco. Developed countries \"tended to have cancers linked to affluence or a 'Western lifestyle' – cancers of the colon, rectum, breast and prostate – that can be caused by obesity, lack of exercise, diet and age.\"\n\nA comprehensive worldwide report, \"\", compiled by the World Cancer Research Fund and the American Institute for Cancer Research, reports that there is a significant relation between lifestyle (including food consumption) and cancer prevention. The same report recommends eating mostly foods of plant origin and aiming to meet nutritional needs through diet alone, while limiting consumption of energy-dense foods, red meat, alcoholic drinks and salt and avoiding sugary drinks, processed meat and moldy cereals (grains) or pulses (legumes). Protein consumption leads to an increase in IGF-1, which plays a role in cancer development.\n\nSeveral lines of evidence indicate lifestyle-induced hyperinsulinemia and reduced insulin function (i.e. insulin resistance) as decisive factors in many disease states. For example, hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance are strongly linked to chronic inflammation, which in turn is strongly linked to a variety of adverse developments such as arterial microinjuries and clot formation (i.e. heart disease) and exaggerated cell division (i.e. cancer). Hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance (the so-called metabolic syndrome) are characterized by a combination of abdominal obesity, elevated blood sugar, elevated blood pressure, elevated blood triglycerides, and reduced HDL cholesterol.\n\nObesity can unfavourably alter hormonal and metabolic status via resistance to the hormone leptin, and a vicious cycle may occur in which insulin/leptin resistance and obesity aggravate one another. The vicious cycle is putatively fuelled by continuously high insulin/leptin stimulation and fat storage, as a result of high intake of strongly insulin/leptin stimulating foods and energy. Both insulin and leptin normally function as satiety signals to the hypothalamus in the brain; however, insulin/leptin resistance may reduce this signal and therefore allow continued overfeeding despite large body fat stores.\n\nThere is a debate about how and to what extent different dietary factors – such as intake of processed carbohydrates, total protein, fat, and carbohydrate intake, intake of saturated and trans fatty acids, and low intake of vitamins/minerals – contribute to the development of insulin and leptin resistance. Evidence indicates that diets possibly protective against metabolic syndrome include low saturated and trans fat intake and foods rich in dietary fiber, such as high consumption of fruits and vegetables and moderate intake of low-fat dairy products.\n\nThe challenges facing global nutrition are disease, child malnutrition, obesity, and vitamin deficiency.\n\nThe most common non-infectious diseases worldwide, that contribute most to the global mortality rate, are cardiovascular diseases, various cancers, diabetes, and chronic respiratory problems, all of which are linked to poor nutrition. Nutrition and diet are closely associated with the leading causes of death, including cardiovascular disease and cancer. Obesity and high sodium intake can contribute to ischemic heart disease, while consumption of fruits and vegetables can decrease the risk of developing cancer.\n\nFoodborne and infectious diseases can result in malnutrition, and malnutrition exacerbates infectious disease. Poor nutrition leaves children and adults more susceptible to contracting life-threatening diseases such as diarrheal infections and respiratory infections. According to the WHO, in 2011, 6.9 million children died of infectious diseases like pneumonia, diarrhea, malaria, and neonatal conditions, of which at least one third were associated with undernutrition.\n\nAccording to UNICEF, in 2011, 101 million children across the globe were underweight and one in four children, 165 million, were stunted in growth. Simultaneously, there are 43 million children under five who are overweight or obese. Nearly 20 million children under 5 suffer from severe acute malnutrition, a life-threatening condition requiring urgent treatment. According to estimations at UNICEF, hunger will be responsible for 5.6 million deaths of children under the age of five this year. These all represent significant public health emergencies. This is because proper maternal and child nutrition has immense consequences for survival, acute and chronic disease incidence, normal growth, and economic productivity of individuals.\n\nChildhood malnutrition is common and contributes to the global burden of disease. Childhood is a particularly important time to achieve good nutrition status, because poor nutrition has the capability to lock a child in a vicious cycle of disease susceptibility and recurring sickness, which threatens cognitive and social development. Undernutrition and bias in access to food and health services leaves children less likely to attend or perform well in school.\n\nUNICEF defines undernutrition “as the outcome of insufficient food intake (hunger) and repeated infectious diseases. Under nutrition includes being underweight for one’s age, too short for one’s age (stunted), dangerously thin (wasted), and deficient in vitamins and minerals (micronutrient malnutrient). Under nutrition causes 53% of deaths of children under five across the world. It has been estimated that undernutrition is the underlying cause for 35% of child deaths. The Maternal and Child Nutrition Study Group estimate that under nutrition, “including fetal growth restriction, stunting, wasting, deficiencies of vitamin A and zinc along with suboptimum breastfeeding- is a cause of 3.1 million child deaths and infant mortality, or 45% of all child deaths in 2011”.\n\nWhen humans are undernourished, they no longer maintain normal bodily functions, such as growth, resistance to infection, or have satisfactory performance in school or work. Major causes of under nutrition in young children include lack of proper breast feeding for infants and illnesses such as diarrhea, pneumonia, malaria, and HIV/AIDS. According to UNICEF 146 million children across the globe, that one out of four under the age of five, are underweight. The amount of underweight children has decreased since 1990, from 33 percent to 28 percent between 1990 and 2004. Underweight and stunted children are more susceptible to infection, more likely to fall behind in school, more likely to become overweight and develop non-infectious diseases, and ultimately earn less than their non-stunted coworkers. Therefore, undernutrition can accumulate deficiencies in health which results in less productive individuals and societies \n\nMany children are born with the inherent disadvantage of low birth weight, often caused by intrauterine growth restriction and poor maternal nutrition, which results in worse growth, development, and health throughout the course of their lifetime. Children born at low birthweight (less than 5.5 pounds or 2.5 kg), are less likely to be healthy and are more susceptible to disease and early death. Those born at low birthweight also are likely to have a depressed immune system, which can increase their chances of heart disease and diabetes later on in life. Because 96% of low birthweight occurs in the developing world, low birthweight is associated with being born to a mother in poverty with poor nutritional status that has had to perform demanding labor.\n\nStunting and other forms of undernutrition reduces a child’s chance of survival and hinders their optimal growth and health. Stunting has demonstrated association with poor brain development, which reduces cognitive ability, academic performance, and eventually earning potential. Important determinants of stunting include the quality and frequency of infant and child feeding, infectious disease susceptibility, and the mother’s nutrition and health status. Undernourished mothers are more likely to birth stunted children, perpetuating a cycle of undernutrition and poverty. Stunted children are more likely to develop obesity and chronic diseases upon reaching adulthood. Therefore, malnutrition resulting in stunting can further worsen the obesity epidemic, especially in low and middle income countries. This creates even new economic and social challenges for vulnerable impoverished groups.\n\nData on global and regional food supply shows that consumption rose from 2011-2012 in all regions. Diets became more diverse, with a decrease in consumption of cereals and roots and an increase in fruits, vegetables, and meat products. However, this increase masks the discrepancies between nations, where Africa, in particular, saw a decrease in food consumption over the same years. This information is derived from food balance sheets that reflect national food supplies, however, this does not necessarily reflect the distribution of micro and macronutrients. Often inequality in food access leaves distribution which uneven, resulting in undernourishment for some and obesity for others.\n\nUndernourishment, or hunger, according to the FAO, is dietary intake below the minimum daily energy requirement. The amount of undernourishment is calculated utilizing the average amount of food available for consumption, the size of the population, the relative disparities in access to the food, and the minimum calories required for each individual. According to FAO, 868 million people (12% of the global population) were undernourished in 2012. This has decreased across the world since 1990, in all regions except for Africa, where undernourishment has steadily increased. However, the rates of decrease are not sufficient to meet the first Millennium Development Goal of halving hunger between 1990 and 2015. The global financial, economic, and food price crisis in 2008 drove many people to hunger, especially women and children. The spike in food prices prevented many people from escaping poverty, because the poor spend a larger proportion of their income on food and farmers are net consumers of food. High food prices cause consumers to have less purchasing power and to substitute more-nutritious foods with low-cost alternatives.\n\nMalnutrition in industrialized nations is primarily due to excess calories and non-nutritious carbohydrates, which has contributed to the obesity epidemic affecting both developed and some developing nations. In 2008, 35% of adults above the age of 20 years were overweight (BMI 25 kg/m), a prevalence that has doubled worldwide between 1980 and 2008. Also 10% of men and 14% of women were obese, with a BMI greater than 30. Rates of overweight and obesity vary across the globe, with the highest prevalence in the Americas, followed by European nations, where over 50% of the population is overweight or obese.\n\nObesity is more prevalent amongst high income and higher middle income groups than lower divisions of income. Women are more likely than men to be obese, where the rate of obesity in women doubled from 8% to 14% between 1980 and 2008. Being overweight as a child has become an increasingly important indicator for later development of obesity and non-infectious diseases such as heart disease. In several western European nations, the prevalence of overweight and obese children rose by 10% from 1980 to 1990, a rate that has begun to accelerate recently.\n\nVitamins and minerals are essential to the proper functioning and maintenance of the human body. Globally, particularly in developing nations, deficiencies in Iodine, Iron, and Zinc among others are said to impair human health when these minerals are not ingested in an adequate quantity. There are 20 trace elements and minerals that are essential in small quantities to body function and overall human health.\n\nIron deficiency is the most common inadequate nutrient worldwide, affecting approximately 2 billion people. Globally, anemia affects 1.6 billion people, and represents a public health emergency in children under five and mothers. The World Health Organization estimates that there exists 469 million women of reproductive age and approximately 600 million preschool and school-age children worldwide who are anemic. Anemia, especially iron-deficient anemia, is a critical problem for cognitive developments in children, and its presence leads to maternal deaths and poor brain and motor development in children. The development of anemia affects mothers and children more because infants and children have higher iron requirements for growth. Health consequences for iron deficiency in young children include increased perinatal mortality, delayed mental and physical development, negative behavioral consequences, reduced auditory and visual function, and impaired physical performance. The harm caused by iron deficiency during child development cannot be reversed and result in reduced academic performance, poor physical work capacity, and decreased productivity in adulthood. Mothers are also very susceptible to iron-deficient anemia because women lose iron during menstruation, and rarely supplement it in their diet. Maternal iron deficiency anemia increases the chances of maternal mortality, contributing to at least 18% of maternal deaths in low and middle income countries.\n\nVitamin A plays an essential role in developing the immune system in children, therefore, it is considered an essential micronutrient that can greatly affect health. However, because of the expense of testing for deficiencies, many developing nations have not been able to fully detect and address vitamin A deficiency, leaving vitamin A deficiency considered a silent hunger. According to estimates, subclinical vitamin A deficiency, characterized by low retinol levels, affects 190 million pre-school children and 19 million mothers worldwide.\nThe WHO estimates that 5.2 million of these children under 5 are affected by night blindness, which is considered clinical vitamin A deficiency. Severe vitamin A deficiency (VAD) for developing children can result in visual impairments, anemia and weakened immunity, and increase their risk of morbidity and mortality from infectious disease. This also presents a problem for women, with WHO estimating that 9.8 million women are affected by night blindness. Clinical vitamin A deficiency is particularly common among pregnant women, with prevalence rates as high as 9.8% in South-East Asia.\n\nEstimates say that 28.5% of the global population is iodine deficient, representing 1.88 billion individuals. Although salt iodization programs have reduced the prevalence of iodine deficiency, this is still a public health concern in 32 nations. Moderate deficiencies are common in Europe and Africa, and over consumption is common in the Americas. Iodine-deficient diets can interfere with adequate thyroid hormone production, which is responsible for normal growth in the brain and nervous system. This ultimately leads to poor school performance and impaired intellectual capabilities.\n\nImprovement of breast feeding practices, like early initiation and exclusive breast feeding for the first two years of life, could save the lives of 1.5 million children annually. Nutrition interventions targeted at infants aged 0–5 months first encourages early initiation of breastfeeding. Though the relationship between early initiation of breast feeding and improved health outcomes has not been formally established, a recent study in Ghana suggests a causal relationship between early initiation and reduced infection-caused neo-natal deaths. Also, experts promote exclusive breastfeeding, rather than using formula, which has shown to promote optimal growth, development, and health of infants. Exclusive breastfeeding often indicates nutritional status because infants that consume breast milk are more likely to receive all adequate nourishment and nutrients that will aid their developing body and immune system. This leaves children less likely to contract diarrheal diseases and respiratory infections.\n\nBesides the quality and frequency of breastfeeding, the nutritional status of mothers affects infant health. When mothers do not receive proper nutrition, it threatens the wellness and potential of their children. Well-nourished women are less likely to experience risks of birth and are more likely to deliver children who will develop well physically and mentally. Maternal undernutrition increases the chances of low-birth weight, which can increase the risk of infections and asphyxia in fetuses, increasing the probability of neonatal deaths. Growth failure during intrauterine conditions, associated with improper mother nutrition, can contribute to lifelong health complications. Approximately 13 million children are born with intrauterine growth restriction annually.\n\nAccording to UNICEF, South Asia has the highest levels of underweight children under five, followed by sub-Saharan Africans nations, with Industrialized countries and Latin nations having the lowest rates.\n\nIn the United States, 2% of children are underweight, with under 1% stunted and 6% are wasting.\n\nIn the US, dietitians are registered (RD) or licensed (LD) with the Commission for Dietetic Registration and the American Dietetic Association, and are only able to use the title \"dietitian,\" as described by the business and professions codes of each respective state, when they have met specific educational and experiential prerequisites and passed a national registration or licensure examination, respectively. In California, registered dietitians must abide by the Anyone may call themselves a nutritionist, including unqualified dietitians, as this term is unregulated. Some states, such as the State of Florida, have begun to include the title \"nutritionist\" in state licensure requirements. Most governments provide guidance on nutrition, and some also impose mandatory disclosure/labeling requirements for processed food manufacturers and restaurants to assist consumers in complying with such guidance..\n\nIn the US, nutritional standards and recommendations are established jointly by the US Department of Agriculture and US Department of Health and Human Services. Dietary and physical activity guidelines from the USDA are presented in the concept of a plate of food which in 2011 superseded the MyPyramid food pyramid that had replaced the Four Food Groups. The Senate committee currently responsible for oversight of the USDA is the \"Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee\". Committee hearings are often televised on C-SPAN. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services provides a sample week-long menu which fulfills the nutritional recommendations of the government. Canada's Food Guide is another governmental recommendation..\n\nAccording to UNICEF, the Commonwealth of Independent States has the lowest rates of stunting and wasting, at 14 percent and 3 percent. The nations of Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Lithuania and Sweden have the lowest prevalence of low birthweight children in the world- at 4%. Proper prenatal nutrition is responsible for this small prevalence of low birthweight infants. However, low birthweight rates are increasing, due to the use of fertility drugs, resulting in multiple births, women bearing children at an older age, and the advancement of technology allowing more pre-term infants to survive. Industrialized nations more often face malnutrition in the form of over-nutrition from excess calories and non-nutritious carbohydrates, which has contributed greatly to the public health epidemic of obesity. Disparities, according to gender, geographic location and socio-economic position, both within and between countries, represent the biggest threat to child nutrition in industrialized countries. These disparities are a direct product of social inequalities and social inequalities are rising throughout the industrialized world, particularly in Europe.\n\nSouth Asia has the highest percentage and number of underweight children under five in the world, at approximately 78 million children. Patterns of stunting and wasting are similar, where 44% have not reached optimal height and 15% are wasted, rates much higher than any other regions. This region of the world has extremely high rates of child underweight- 46% of its child population under five is underweight. India, Bangladesh, and Pakistan alone account for half the globe’s underweight child population. South Asian nations have made progress towards the MDGs, considering the rate has decreased from 53% since 1990, however, a 1.7% decrease of underweight prevalence per year will not be sufficient to meet the 2015 goal. Some nations, such as Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka, on the other hand, have made significant improvements, all decreasing their prevalence by half in ten years. While India and Pakistan have made modest improvements, Nepal has made no significant improvement in underweight child prevalence. Other forms of undernutrition have continued to persist with high resistance to improvement, such as the prevalence of stunting and wasting, which has not changed significantly in the past 10 years. Causes of this poor nutrition include energy-insufficient diets, poor sanitation conditions, and the gender disparities in educational and social status. Girls and women face discrimination especially in nutrition status, where South Asia is the only region in the world where girls are more likely to be underweight than boys. In South Asia, 60% of children in the lowest quintile are underweight, compared to only 26% in the highest quintile, and the rate of reduction of underweight is slower amongst the poorest.\n\nThe Eastern and Southern African nations have shown no improvement since 1990 in the rate of underweight children under five. They have also made no progress in halving hunger by 2015, the most prevalent Millennium Development Goal. This is due primarily to the prevalence of famine, declined agricultural productivity, food emergencies, drought, conflict, and increased poverty. This, along with HIV/AIDS, has inhibited the nutrition development of nations such as Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Swaziland, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Botswana has made remarkable achievements in reducing underweight prevalence, dropping 4% in 4 years, despite its place as the second leader in HIV prevalence amongst adults in the globe. South Africa, the wealthiest nation in this region, has the second lowest proportion of underweight children at 12%, but has been steadily increasing in underweight prevalence since 1995. Almost half of Ethiopian children are underweight, and along with Nigeria, they account for almost one-third of the underweight under five in all of Sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nWest/Central Africa has the highest rate of children under five underweight in the world. Of the countries in this region, the Congo has the lowest rate at 14%, while the nations of Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ghana, Guinea, Mali, Nigeria, Senegal and Togo are improving slowly. In Gambia, rates decreased from 26% to 17% in four years, and their coverage of vitamin A supplementation reaches 91% of vulnerable populations. This region has the next highest proportion of wasted children, with 10% of the population under five not at optimal weight. Little improvement has been made between the years of 1990 and 2004 in reducing the rates of underweight children under five, whose rate stayed approximately the same. Sierra Leone has the highest child under five mortality rate in the world, due predominantly to its extreme infant mortality rate, at 238 deaths per 1000 live births. Other contributing factors include the high rate of low birthweight children (23%) and low levels of exclusive breast feeding (4%). Anemia is prevalent in these nations, with unacceptable rates of iron deficient anemia. The nutritional status of children is further indicated by its high rate of child wasting - 10%. Wasting is a significant problem in Sahelian countries – Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania and Niger – where rates fall between 11% and 19% of under fives, affecting more than 1 million children.\n\nSix countries in the Middle East and North Africa region are on target to meet goals for reducing underweight children by 2015, and 12 countries have prevalence rates below 10%. However, the nutrition of children in the region as a whole has degraded for the past ten years due to the increasing portion of underweight children in three populous nations – Iraq, Sudan, and Yemen. Forty six percent of all children in Yemen are underweight, a percentage that has worsened by 4% since 1990. In Yemen, 53% of children under five are stunted and 32% are born at low birth weight. Sudan has an underweight prevalence of 41%, and the highest proportion of wasted children in the region at 16%. One percent of households in Sudan consume iodized salt. Iraq has also seen an increase in child underweight since 1990. Djibouti, Jordan, the Occupied Palestinian Territory (OPT), Oman, the Syrian Arab Republic and Tunisia are all projected to meet minimum nutrition goals, with OPT, Syrian AR, and Tunisia the fastest improving regions. This region demonstrates that undernutrition does not always improve with economic prosperity, where the United Arab Emirates, for example, despite being a wealthy nation, has similar child death rates due to malnutrition to those seen in Yemen.\n\nThe East Asia/Pacific region has reached its goals on nutrition, in part due to the improvements contributed by China, the region’s most populous country. China has reduced its underweight prevalence from 19 percent to 8 percent between 1990 and 2002. China played the largest role in the world in decreasing the rate of children under five underweight between 1990 and 2004, halving the prevalence. This reduction of underweight prevalence has aided in the lowering of the under 5 mortality rate from 49 to 31 of 1000. They also have a low birthweight rate at 4%, a rate comparable to industrialized countries, and over 90% of households receive adequate iodized salts. However, large disparities exist between children in rural and urban areas, where 5 provinces in China leave 1.5 million children iodine deficient and susceptible to diseases. Singapore, Vietnam, Malaysia, and Indonesia are all projected to reach nutrition MDGs. Singapore has the lowest under five mortality rate of any nation, besides Iceland, in the world, at 3%. Cambodia has the highest rate of child mortality in the region (141 per 1,000 live births), while still its proportion of underweight children increased by 5 percent to 45% in 2000. Further nutrient indicators show that only 12 per cent of Cambodian babies are exclusively breastfed and only 14 per cent of households consume iodized salt.\n\nThis region has undergone the fastest progress in decreasing poor nutrition status of children in the world. The Latin American region has reduced underweight children prevalence by 3.8% every year between 1990 and 2004, with a current rate of 7% underweight. They also have the lowest rate of child mortality in the developing world, with only 31 per 1000 deaths, and the highest iodine consumption. Cuba has seen improvement from 9 to 4 percent underweight under 5 between 1996 and 2004. The prevalence has also decreased in the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Peru, and Chile. Chile has a rate of underweight under 5, at merely 1%. The most populous nations, Brazil and Mexico, mostly have relatively low rates of underweight under 5, with only 6% and 8%. Guatemala has the highest percentage of underweight and stunted children in the region, with rates above 45%. There are disparities amongst different populations in this region. For example, children in rural areas have twice the prevalence of underweight at 13%, compared to urban areas at 5%.\n\nOccurring throughout the world, lack of proper nutrition is both a consequence and cause of poverty. Impoverished individuals are less likely to have access to nutritious food and to escape from poverty than those who have healthy diets. Disparities in socioeconomic status, both between and within nations, provide the largest threat to child nutrition in industrialized nations, where social inequality is on the rise. According to UNICEF, children living in the poorest households are twice as likely to be underweight as those in the richest. Those in the lowest wealth quintile and whose mothers have the least education demonstrate the highest rates of child mortality and stunting. Throughout the developing world, socioeconomic inequality in childhood malnutrition is more severe than in upper income brackets, regardless of the general rate of malnutrition. Concurrently, the greatest increase in childhood obesity has been seen in the lower middle income bracket.\n\nAccording to UNICEF, children in rural locations are more than twice as likely to be underweight as compared to children under five in urban areas. In Latin American/Caribbean nations, “Children living in rural areas in Bolivia, Honduras, Mexico and Nicaragua are more than twice as likely to be underweight as children living in urban areas. That likelihood doubles to four times in Peru.” \n\nIn the United States, the incidence of low birthweight is on the rise among all populations, but particularly among minorities.\n\nAccording to UNICEF, boys and girls have almost identical rates as underweight children under age 5 across the world, except in South Asia.\n\nNutrition directly influences progress towards meeting the Millennium Goals of eradicating hunger and poverty through health and education. Therefore, nutrition interventions take a multi-faceted approach to improve the nutrition status of various populations. Policy and programming must target both individual behavioral changes and policy approaches to public health. While most nutrition interventions focus on delivery through the health-sector, non-health sector interventions targeting agriculture, water and sanitation, and education are important as well. Global nutrition micro-nutrient deficiencies often receive large-scale solution approaches by deploying large governmental and non-governmental organizations. For example, in 1990, iodine deficiency was particularly prevalent, with one in five households, or 1.7 billion people, not consuming adequate iodine, leaving them at risk to develop associated diseases. Therefore, a global campaign to iodize salt to eliminate iodine deficiency successfully boosted the rate to 69% of households in the world consuming adequate amounts of iodine.\n\nEmergencies and crises often exacerbate undernutrition, due to the aftermath of crises that include food insecurity, poor health resources, unhealthy environments, and poor healthcare practices. Therefore, the repercussions of natural disasters and other emergencies can exponentially increase the rates of macro and micronutrient deficiencies in populations. Disaster relief interventions often take a multi-faceted public health approach. UNICEF’s programming targeting nutrition services amongst disaster settings include nutrition assessments, measles immunization, vitamin A supplementation, provision of fortified foods and micronutrient supplements, support for breastfeeding and complementary feeding for infants and young children, and therapeutic and supplementary feeding. For example, during Nigeria’s food crisis of 2005, 300,000 children received therapeutic nutrition feeding programs through the collaboration of UNICEF, the Niger government, the World Food Programme, and 24 NGOs utilizing community and facility based feeding schemes.\n\nInterventions aimed at pregnant women, infants, and children take a behavioral and program-based approach. Behavioral intervention objectives include promoting proper breast-feeding, the immediate initiation of breastfeeding, and its continuation through 2 years and beyond. UNICEF recognizes that to promote these behaviors, healthful environments must be established conducive to promoting these behaviors, like healthy hospital environments, skilled health workers, support in the public and workplace, and removing negative influences. Finally, other interventions include provisions of adequate micro and macro nutrients such as iron, anemia, and vitamin A supplements and vitamin-fortified foods and ready-to-use products. Programs addressing micro-nutrient deficiencies, such as those aimed at anemia, have attempted to provide iron supplementation to pregnant and lactating women. However, because supplementation often occurs too late, these programs have had little effect. Interventions such as women’s nutrition, early and exclusive breastfeeding, appropriate complementary food and micronutrient supplementation have proven to reduce stunting and other manifestations of undernutrition. A Cochrane review of community-based maternal health packages showed that this community-based approach improved the initiation of breastfeeding within one hour of birth. Some programs have had adverse effects. One example is the “Formula for Oil” relief program in Iraq, which resulted in the replacement of breastfeeding for formula, which has negatively affected infant nutrition.\n\nIn April 2010, the World Bank and the IMF released a policy briefing entitled “Scaling up Nutrition (SUN): A Framework for action” that represented a partnered effort to address the Lancet’s Series on under nutrition, and the goals it set out for improving under nutrition. They emphasized the 1000 days after birth as the prime window for effective nutrition intervention, encouraging programming that was cost-effective and showed significant cognitive improvement in populations, as well as enhanced productivity and economic growth. This document was labeled the SUN framework, and was launched by the UN General Assembly in 2010 as a road map encouraging the coherence of stakeholders like governments, academia, UN system organizations and foundations in working towards reducing under nutrition. The SUN framework has initiated a transformation in global nutrition- calling for country-based nutrition programs, increasing evidence based and cost–effective interventions, and “integrating nutrition within national strategies for gender equality, agriculture, food security, social protection, education, water supply, sanitation, and health care”. Government often plays a role in implementing nutrition programs through policy. For instance, several East Asian nations have enacted legislation to increase iodization of salt to increase household consumption. Political commitment in the form of evidence-based effective national policies and programs, trained skilled community nutrition workers, and effective communication and advocacy can all work to decrease malnutrition. Market and industrial production can play a role as well. For example, in the Philippines, improved production and market availability of iodized salt increased household consumption. While most nutrition interventions are delivered directly through governments and health services, other sectors, such as agriculture, water and sanitation, and education, are vital for nutrition promotion as well.\n\nNutrition is taught in schools in many countries. In England and Wales the Personal and Social Education and Food Technology curricula include nutrition, stressing the importance of a balanced diet and teaching how to read nutrition labels on packaging. In many schools a Nutrition class will fall within the Family and Consumer Science or Health departments. In some American schools, students are required to take a certain number of FCS or Health related classes. Nutrition is offered at many schools, and if it is not a class of its own, nutrition is included in other FCS or Health classes such as: Life Skills, Independent Living, Single Survival, Freshmen Connection, Health etc. In many Nutrition classes, students learn about the food groups, the food pyramid, Daily Recommended Allowances, calories, vitamins, minerals, malnutrition, physical activity, healthy food choices and how to live a healthy life.\n\nA 1985 US National Research Council report entitled \"Nutrition Education in US Medical Schools\" concluded that nutrition education in medical schools was inadequate. Only 20% of the schools surveyed taught nutrition as a separate, required course. A 2006 survey found that this number had risen to 30%.\n\nThe protein requirement for each individual differs, as do opinions about whether and to what extent physically active people require more protein. The 2005 Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDA), aimed at the general healthy adult population, provide for an intake of 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight. A review panel stating that \"no additional dietary protein is suggested for healthy adults undertaking resistance or endurance exercise.\"\n\nThe main fuel used by the body during exercise is carbohydrates, which is stored in muscle as glycogen – a form of sugar. During exercise, muscle glycogen reserves can be used up, especially when activities last longer than 90 min. Because the amount of glycogen stored in the body is limited, it is important for athletes participating in endurance sports such as marathons to consume carbohydrates during their events.\n\nAdequate nutrition is essential for the growth of children from infancy right through until adolescence. Some nutrients are specifically required for growth on top of nutrients required for normal body maintenance, in particular calcium and iron.\n\nMalnutrition in general is higher among the elderly, but has different aspects in developed and undeveloped countries.\n\nHumans have evolved as omnivorous hunter-gatherers over the past 250,000 years. The diet of early modern humans varied significantly depending on location and climate. The diet in the tropics tended to depend more heavily on plant foods, while the diet at higher latitudes tended more towards animal products. Analyses of postcranial and cranial remains of humans and animals from the Neolithic, along with detailed bone-modification studies, have shown that cannibalism also occurred among prehistoric humans.\n\nAgriculture developed about 10,000 years ago in multiple locations throughout the world, providing grains (such as wheat, rice and maize) and potatoes; and originating staples such as bread and pasta dough, and tortillas. Farming also provided milk and dairy products, and sharply increased the availability of meats and the diversity of vegetables. The importance of food purity was recognized when bulk storage led to infestation and contamination risks. Cooking developed as an often ritualistic activity,\ndue to efficiency and reliability concerns requiring adherence to strict recipes and procedures, and in response to demands for food purity and consistency.\n\nAround 3000 BC the Vedic texts made mention of scientific research on nutrition. The Bible's Book of Daniel recounts first recorded nutritional experiment. During an invasion of Judah, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon captured Daniel and his friends. Selected as court servants, they were to share in the king's fine foods and wine. But they objected, preferring vegetables (pulses) and water in accordance with their Jewish dietary restrictions. The king's chief steward reluctantly agreed to a trial. Daniel and his friends received their diet for 10 days. On comparison with the king's men, they appeared healthier, and were allowed to continue with their diet. Around 475 BC, Anaxagoras stated that food is absorbed by the human body and therefore contained \"homeomerics\" (generative components), suggesting the existence of nutrients. Around 400 BC, Hippocrates said: \"Let food be your medicine and medicine be your food.\"\n\nThe 16th-century scientist and artist Leonardo da Vinci (1452–1519) compared metabolism to a burning candle. In 1747 Dr. James Lind, a physician in the British navy, performed the first attested scientific nutrition experiment, discovering that lime juice saved sailors who had been at sea for years from scurvy, a deadly and painful bleeding disorder. The discovery was ignored for forty years, but after about 1850 British sailors became known as \"limeys\". (Scientists would not identify the essential vitamin C within lime juice until the 1930s.)\n\nAround 1770 Antoine Lavoisier, the \"Father of Nutrition and Chemistry\", discovered the details of metabolism, demonstrating that the oxidation of food is the source of body heat. In 1790 George Fordyce recognized calcium as necessary for fowl survival. In the early 19th century, the elements carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen and oxygen were recognized as the primary components of food, and methods to measure their proportions were developed.\n\nIn 1816 François Magendie discovered that dogs fed only carbohydrates and fat lost their body protein and died in a few weeks, but dogs also fed protein survived, identifying protein as an essential dietary component. In 1840, Justus Liebig discovered the chemical makeup of carbohydrates (sugars), fats (fatty acids) and proteins (amino acids). In the 1860s Claude Bernard discovered that body fat can be synthesized from carbohydrate and protein, showing that the energy in blood glucose can be stored as fat or as glycogen. In the early 1880s Kanehiro Takaki observed that Japanese sailors (whose diets consisted almost entirely of white rice) developed beriberi (or endemic neuritis, a disease causing heart problems and paralysis), but British sailors and Japanese naval officers did not. Adding various types of vegetables and meats to the diets of Japanese sailors prevented the disease.\n\nIn 1896 Eugen Baumann observed iodine in thyroid glands. In 1897, Christiaan Eijkman worked with natives of Java, who also suffered from beriberi. Eijkman observed that chickens fed the native diet of white rice developed the symptoms of beriberi, but remained healthy when fed unprocessed brown rice with the outer bran intact. Eijkman cured the natives by feeding them brown rice, demonstrating that food can cure disease. Over two decades later, nutritionists learned that the outer rice bran contains vitamin B.\n\nIn the early 20th century Carl von Voit and Max Rubner independently measured caloric energy expenditure in different species of animals, applying principles of physics in nutrition. In 1906, Wilcock and Hopkins showed that the amino acid tryptophan was necessary for the survival of rats. He fed them a special mixture of food containing all the nutrients he believed were essential for survival, but the rats died. A second group of rats to which he also fed an amount of milk containing vitamins. Gowland Hopkins recognized \"accessory food factors\" other than calories, protein and minerals, as organic materials essential to health but which the body cannot synthesize. In 1907 Stephen M. Babcock and Edwin B. Hart conducted the single-grain experiment. This experiment ran through 1911.\n\nIn 1912 Casimir Funk coined the term vitamin to label a vital factor in the diet: from the words \"vital\" and \"amine,\" because these unknown substances preventing scurvy, beriberi, and pellagra, were thought then to derive from ammonia. The vitamins were studied in the first half of the 20th century. In 1913 Elmer McCollum discovered the first vitamins, fat-soluble vitamin A and water-soluble vitamin B (in 1915; later identified as a complex of several water-soluble vitamins) and named vitamin C as the then-unknown substance preventing scurvy. Lafayette Mendel (1872-1935) and Thomas Osborne (1859–1929) also performed pioneering work on vitamins A and B. In 1919 Sir Edward Mellanby incorrectly identified rickets as a vitamin A deficiency, because he could cure it in dogs with cod-liver oil. In 1922 McCollum destroyed the vitamin A in cod liver oil but found it still cured rickets, thus identifying vitamin D. Also in 1922, H.M. Evans and L.S. Bishop discovered vitamin E as essential for rat pregnancy, and originally called it \"food factor X\" until 1925.\n\nIn 1925 Hart discovered that iron absorption requires trace amounts of copper. In 1927 Adolf Otto Reinhold Windaus synthesized vitamin D, for which he won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1928. In 1928 Albert Szent-Györgyi isolated ascorbic acid, and in 1932 proved that it is vitamin C by preventing scurvy. In 1935 he synthesized it, and in 1937 won a Nobel Prize for his efforts. Szent-Györgyi concurrently elucidated much of the citric acid cycle. In the 1930s William Cumming Rose identified essential amino acids, necessary protein components which the body cannot synthesize. In 1935 Eric Underwood and Hedley Marston independently discovered the necessity of cobalt. In 1936 Eugene Floyd Dubois showed that work and school performance relate to caloric intake. In 1938 Erhard Fernholz discovered the chemical structure of vitamin E. It was synthesised by Paul Karrer (1889–1971).\n\nFrom 1940 rationing in the United Kingdom – during and after World War II – took place according to nutritional principles drawn up by Elsie Widdowson and others. In 1941 the National Research Council established the first Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs). In 1992 the U.S. Department of Agriculture introduced the Food Guide Pyramid. In 2002 a Natural Justice study showed a relation between nutrition and violent behavior. In 2005 a study found that in addition to bad nutrition, adenovirus may cause obesity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14483789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14483789", "title": "Illegal drug trade in China", "text": "Illegal drug trade in China\n\nThe illegal drug trade in China is influenced by factors such as history, location, size, population, and current economic conditions. China has one-fifth of the world's population and a large and expanding economy while Opium has played an important role in the country's history since before the First and Second Opium Wars in the mid-19th century. China's large land mass, close proximity to the Golden Triangle, Golden Crescent, and numerous coastal cities with large and modern port facilities make it an attractive transit center for drug traffickers.\n\nChina's status in drug trafficking has changed significantly since the 1980s, when the country for the first time opened its borders to trade and tourism after 40 years of relative isolation. As trade with Southeast Asia and elsewhere increased, so did the flow of illicit drugs and precursor chemicals from, into, and through China.\n\nChina is a major source of precursor chemicals necessary for the production of cocaine, heroin, MDMA and crystal methamphetamine, which are used by many Southeast Asian and Pacific Rim nations. China produces over 100,000 metric tons of acetic anhydride each year, and imports an additional 20,000 metric tons from the United States and Singapore. Reports indicate that acetic anhydride is diverted from China to morphine and heroin refineries in the Golden Triangle. China is also a leading exporter of bulk ephedrine and has been a source country for much of the ephedrine and pseudoephedrine imported into Mexico; these precursor chemicals are subsequently used to manufacture methamphetamine destined for the United States. China is developing a significant MDMA production, trafficking, and consumption problem. Although China has taken actions through legislation and regulation of production and exportation of precursor chemicals, extensive action is required to control the illicit diversion and smuggling of precursor chemicals.\n\nChina not only continues to be a major transit route for Southeast Asian heroin bound for international drug markets, but also for Southwest Asian heroin entering northwestern China from Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Tajikistan. A majority of the Southeast Asian heroin that enters China from Burma transits southern China to various international markets by maritime transport. Drug traffickers take advantage of expanding port facilities in coastal cities, such as Qingdao, Shanghai, Tianjin, and Guangdong, to ship heroin along maritime routes. Southwest Asian heroin (mainly from Afghanistan) represents as much as 22 percent of the heroin entering northwest China. Chinese authorities believe that these trends will increase and they attribute these increases to the continuing development of the infrastructure and economy in China. China is being forced to develop a complex counter-drug strategy that includes prevention, education, eradication, interdiction, and rehabilitation.\n\nThe Dutch historian Frank Dikötter describes cannabis, which failed to become part of narcotic culture in modern China, as \"China's non-problem\", despite having been widely grown and known as a medicinal herb for nearly 2,000 years.\n[During the Republican period (1912-1937)], government authorities claimed that smoking cannabis could cause nervous dysfunction and madness. Such official attitudes must have reflected popular beliefs, since very little concrete evidence exists concerning the use of cannabis even in the large coastal metropoles. In Shanghai not a single case of cannabis use was discovered during the 1930s. With the exception of the Uyghurs, the popular perception of the smell of smoked cannabis as 'foul' (\"chou\") also impeded its spread. On the other hand, the extraction of hemp oil was widespread in Shanxi, Mongolia and Manchuria. Although most of it appears to have been used for lighting and to lubricate cart wheels, its narcotic powers may have been understood by the local farmers.\nCannabis grows naturally throughout southwestern China, and is legally cultivated in some areas of China for use in commercial rope manufacturing. Most of the illicit cultivation of cannabis as a drug in China appears in Xinjiang and Yunnan and is primarily cultivated for domestic use. In 2002, approximately 1.3 metric tons of cannabis were seized in China.\n\nThe Chinese Government owns and operates ephedra farms, where ephedra grass (\"ephedra sinica\") is cultivated under strict government control. The active alkaloids, pseudoephedrine and ephedrine, are chemically extracted from the plant material and processed for pharmaceutical purposes. These chemicals are then sold domestically and for export. China and India are the major producers of these chemicals extracted from the ephedra plant. In addition to government-controlled farms, the ephedra plant grows wildly in many parts of the northern areas of China.\n\nIllicit cultivation of the opium poppy in China is negligible in provinces such as Yunnan, Ningxia, Inner Mongolia, and the remote regions of the northwest frontier. Opium produced in these areas is not converted into heroin, but is consumed locally by ethnic minority groups in these isolated areas. Chinese officials report that in the last several years no heroin laboratories have been seized in China.\n\nLegal cultivation of the opium poppy occurs on farms controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Drug Administration Bureau of the State Council. According to United Nations (U.N.) International Narcotics Control Board (INCB) data, China produces approximately of legal opium per year for use in the domestic pharmaceutical industry. China reports that none of this opium is exported.\n\nThe Mao Zedong government is generally credited with eradicating both consumption and production of opium during the 1950s using unrestrained repression and social reform. Ten million addicts were forced into compulsory treatment, dealers were executed, and opium-producing regions were planted with new crops. Remaining opium production shifted south of the Chinese border into the Golden Triangle region. The remnant opium trade primarily served Southeast Asia, but spread to American soldiers during the Vietnam War, with 20 percent of soldiers regarding themselves as addicted during the peak of the epidemic in 1971. In 2003, China was estimated to have four million regular drug users and one million registered drug addicts.\n\nManufacture of crystal methamphetamine (\"ice\", \"shabu\", \"bingdu\") is facilitated by the availability of precursor chemicals, such as pseudoephedrine and ephedrine. The unrestricted availability of these chemicals in the country facilitates the production of large quantities of crystal methamphetamine. Seizure information indicates that methamphetamine laboratories are located in provinces along the eastern and southeastern coastal areas. Many of the traffickers for the clandestine crystal methamphetamine laboratories are from organized crime groups based in Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Japan.\n\nBecause of its increasing popularity with young party goers in Beijing, Shanghai, Nanjing, Guangzhou, and Shenzhen, Chinese law enforcement officials report significant increases in the domestic production of MDMA (\"Ecstasy\"). Most MDMA production in China is for domestic consumption. MDMA tablets are also imported from the Netherlands into China to meet the demand.\n\nSome laboratory operators in China mix MDMA powder, imported from Europe, with substances, such as caffeine and ketamine, while making the Ecstasy tablets. Given the availability of the precursor chemicals needed, open source reporting in 2006 indicates that MDMA tablets in China cost only US$0.06 to produce, while the tablets sell for as much as US$36 in the city of Shanghai.\n\nMany of the individuals involved in the international trafficking of Southeast Asian heroin are ethnic Kokang, Yunnanese, Fujianese, Cantonese, or members of other ethnic Chinese minority groups that reside outside of China. These groups reside, and are actively involved in drug trafficking in regions such as Burma, Cambodia, Canada, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, and the United States.\n\nReporting on the activities of drug trafficking organizations in China is sparse. However, Chinese officials report that drug traffickers are dividing their large shipments into smaller ones in order to minimize losses in case of seizure. Chinese officials also report that drug traffickers are increasingly using women, children, and poor, uneducated farmers to body-carry drugs from the Golden Triangle area to Guangdong and other provinces in China.\n\nIn China many individuals and criminal organizations involved in drug trafficking are increasingly arming themselves with automatic weapons and grenades to protect their drug shipments from theft by rival organizations. Many firefights occur along the Burma–China border, where larger drug shipments are more prevalent. Traffickers also arm themselves to avoid being captured by the police, and some smugglers are better armed than the local police forces. Furthermore, many traffickers believe they have a better chance of surviving a firefight than the outcome of any legal proceedings. In China, sentencing for drug trafficking could include capital punishment. For example, the seizure of 50 grams or more of heroin or crystal methamphetamine could result in the use of the death penalty by the Government.\n\nHui Muslim drug dealers are accused by Uyghur Muslims of pushing heroin on Uyghurs. Heroin has been vended by Hui dealers. There is a typecast image in the public eye of heroin being the province of Hui dealers. Hui have been involved in the Golden Triangle drug area.\n\nChina shares a 2000 km border with Burma, as well as smaller but significant borders with Laos and Vietnam. Chinese officials state that the majority of heroin entering China comes over the border from Burma. This heroin then transits southern China, through Yunnan or Guangxi, to Guangdong or Fujian to the southeastern coastal areas, and then on to international markets. Heroin is transported by various overland methods to ports in China's southeastern provinces of Guangdong and Fujian.\n\nHeroin is transported to Guangdong and to the cities of Xiamen and Fuzhou in Fujian for shipment to international drug markets. Traffickers take advantage of expanding port facilities in northeast cities, such as Qingdao, Shanghai, and Tianjin, to ship heroin via maritime routes. Increased Chinese interdiction efforts along the Burma–China border have forced some traffickers to send heroin from Burma to China's southeastern provinces by fishing trawlers.\n\nIn addition to Southeast Asian heroin entering into China, Southwest Asian heroin enters northwestern China from Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Tajikistan. Chinese authorities state that Southwest Asian heroin (mainly originating from Afghanistan) represents as much as 20 percent of the heroin that enters the northwest Xinjiang. This trend is increasing, and is attributed to the continuing development of the infrastructure and economy in the western parts of China.\n\nDue to the availability of the precursor chemicals, traffickers produce large amounts of crystal methamphetamine. Although much of the crystal methamphetamine is consumed locally, some is available for shipment to other markets throughout Southeast Asia. Several ports in southern China serve as transit points for crystal methamphetamine transported by containerized cargo to international drug markets.\n\nSome MDMA traffickers in China are linked directly to the United States. In June 2001, tablets from seizures in two DEA San Francisco investigations were linked to the same source as a 300,000-tablet seizure in Shenzhen, China that had occurred days before. Although the San Francisco seizures were much smaller than the Shenzhen seizure, the capabilities of these trafficking groups appear to be significant. Chinese officials seized over 3 million Ecstasy tablets in China in 2002.\n\nChina is of paramount importance in global cooperative efforts to prevent the diversion of precursor chemicals. With its large chemical industry, China remains a source country for legitimately produced chemicals that are diverted for production of heroin and cocaine, as well as many amphetamine-type stimulants. China and its neighbor India are the leading exporters of bulk ephedrine in the world. China produces over 100,000 metric tons of acetic anhydride each year, and imports an additional 20,000 metric tons from the United States and Singapore. China is also the second largest producer of potassium permanganate in the world.\n\nTo combat the diversion of precursor chemicals, China implemented several regulations on the control of precursor chemicals between 1992 and 1998, including adoption of the 1988 U.N. Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances in 1993. Additionally, the Government further improved regulations to strengthen control of ephedrine during 1999 and 2000.\n\nChina fully participates in the DEA's Operations TOPAZ and PURPLE, which are international monitoring initiatives that target acetic anhydride and potassium permanganate, respectively. Acetic anhydride is used to synthesize morphine base into heroin, and potassium permanganate is used as an oxidizer in cocaine production. Both chemicals are targeted because they are the chemicals most often preferred, and most widely used, by illicit drug manufacturers. However, the effectiveness of Operation PURPLE has been declining recently, since participant nations are exporting significant amounts of potassium permanganate to non-participant countries.\n\nAdditionally, Chinese authorities further control the export of ephedrine and pseudoephedrine through the voluntary use of the Letter of Non-Objection (LONO) system. China will not allow exports of ephedrine or pseudoephedrine without a positive affirmation by authorities in the importing country as to the bona fides of the consignee. For those countries that do not issue import permits, a letter of non-objection must be provided to Chinese authorities.\n\nChina is a source country for significant amounts of the ephedrine and pseudoephedrine exported to Mexico, and subsequently used to manufacture methamphetamine destined for the United States.\n\nIncreases in pseudoephedrine diversion were noted, beginning with the seizures in March and April 2003 of four shipments of product destined for Mexico. The seizures occurred in the United States and Panama, and totaled over 22 million, 60-milligram pseudoephedrine tablets. The source of supply has been identified as legitimate pharmaceutical companies in Hong Kong. Additional investigations have revealed other companies in Hong Kong that have been engaged in supplying substantial amounts of pseudoephedrine to firms, sometime fictitious, shells or fronts, in Mexico.\n\nAlso, reports indicate that acetic anhydride is diverted from China to morphine/heroin refineries found in the Golden Triangle. Domestically, Chinese officials express concern over the increasing number of synthetic drug production operations in their country. Seizures of precursor chemicals in China increased from 50 metric tons in 1991 to 383 metric tons in 1997; only 300 metric tons were seized in 2002.\n\nIn the past money laundering was not considered a significant problem in China. However, with the booming economy promoting greater trade investment and the ever-increasing number of foreign bank branches opening throughout the country, it appears that China may become an emerging money laundering center.\n\nChina, however, has taken some initial steps to begin investigation of money laundering activities. An Economic Crimes Investigation Department was established in the Ministry of Public Security to focus on illicit activities. The People's Bank of China (China's central bank) began several structural reforms such as the establishment of two new divisions, the Payment Trade Supervisory Division and the Money Laundering Working Division. The People's Bank of China also prepared guidelines for use by financial institutions to report suspicious transactions, and to sensitize the public about new regulations on money laundering and terrorist financing issues.\n\nThe major drugs of choice are injectable heroin, morphine, smokeable opium, crystal methamphetamine, nimetazepam, temazepam, and MDMA. Preferences between opium and heroin/morphine, and methods of administration, differ from region to region within China. The use of heroin and opium has increased among the younger population, as income has grown and the youth have more free time. China considers crystal methamphetamine abuse second to heroin/morphine as a major drug problem. The use of MDMA has only recently become popular in China's growing urban areas.\n\nThe \"South China Morning Post\" reports the rise in the use of ketamine, easy to mass-produce in illicit labs in southern China, particularly among the young. Because of its low cost, and low profit margin, drug peddlers rely on mass distribution to make money, thus increasing its penetrative power to all, including schoolchildren. The journal cites social workers saying that four people can get high by sharing just HK$20 worth of ketamine, and estimates 80 per cent of young drug addicts take 'K'.\n\nAs of 2013, there were 2,475,000 registered drug addicts in China, 1,326,000 of which where addicted to heroin, accounting for 53.6% of the addict population. Some unofficial estimates range as high as 12 million drug addicts. Of the registered drug addicts, 83.7 percent are male and 73.9 percent are under the age of 35. \n\nIn 2001, intravenous heroin users accounted for 70.9 percent of the confirmed 22,000 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) cases. Chinese officials are becoming increasingly concerned about the abuse of methamphetamine and other amphetamine-type stimulants.\n\nBoth voluntary and compulsory drug treatment programs are provided in China, although the compulsory treatment is more common. Most addicts who attend these centers do so involuntarily upon orders from the Government. Voluntary treatment is provided at centers operated by Public Health Bureaus, but these programs are more expensive and many people cannot afford to attend them. Addicts, who return to drug use after having received treatment, and who cannot be cured by other means, may be sentenced to rehabilitation at any one of the special centers for re-education through labor. These centers are run under conditions similar to prisons, including isolation from the outside world, restricted patient movement and a paramilitary routine.\n\nDemand reduction efforts target individuals between the ages of 17 and 35, since this is the largest segment of drug users. These efforts include, but are not limited to, media campaigns and establishment of drug-free communities.\n\nAt the national level, the agencies specifically responsible for the control of legal and illicit drugs are the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Public Security, and the Customs General Administration. The State Food and Drug Administration oversees implementation of the laws regulating the pharmaceutical industry. In the Customs General Administration, the Smuggling Prevention Department plays the major role in intercepting illegal drug shipments. The Narcotics Control Bureau of the Ministry of Public Security handles all criminal investigations involving opium, heroin, and methamphetamine.\n\nIn 1990, the Chinese government set up the (NNCC), composed of 25 departments, including the Ministry of Public Security, Ministry of Health and General Administration of Customs. The NNCC leads the nation's drug control work in a unified way, and is responsible for international drug control cooperation, with an operational agency based in the Ministry of Public Security.\n\nChina is a party to the 1988 U.N. Drug Convention, the 1961 U.N. Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs as amended by the 1972 Protocol, and the 1971 U.N. Convention on Psychotropic Substances. China is a member of the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL), and has been a member of the INCB since 1984.\n\nChina also participates in a drug control program with Iran, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Russia, and the United States. This program is designed to enhance information sharing and coordination of drug law enforcement activities by countries in and around the Central Asian Region.\n\nIn June 2000, China and the United States signed a Mutual Legal Assistance Agreement (MLAT). This treaty subsequently went into effect on March 8, 2001. In 1999, China and the United States signed a Bilateral Customs Mutual Assistance Agreement. However, this agreement has not yet been activated. A May 1997 United States and China Memorandum of Understanding on law enforcement cooperation allows the two countries to provide assistance on drug investigations and prosecutions on a case-by-case basis.\n\nChina has over 30 MLATs with 24 nations covering both civil and criminal matters. In 1996, China signed MLATs that gave specific attention to drug trafficking with Russia, Mexico, and Pakistan. China also signed a drug control cooperation agreement with India.\n\nChina and Burma continue dialogue on counter-drug issues, such as drug trafficking by the United Wa State Army along the China–Burma border. The Government of China encourages and provides assistance for alternative crop programs in Burma along the China–Burma border. China is also building on Memoranda of Understanding that are currently in place with Burma, Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, Vietnam, and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49557021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49557021", "title": "Jason X.-J. Yuan", "text": "Jason X.-J. Yuan\n\nJason X.-J. Yuan (born 1963) is an American physician scientist whose research interests center on pulmonary vascular pathobiology and pulmonary hypertension. His current research is primarily focused on the pathogenic mechanisms of pulmonary vascular diseases and right heart failure.\n\nHe was born in 1963 in Xintian County, Hunan Province, China. Yuan completed his medical training at the Suzhou Medical College in 1983, and received his doctoral degree from the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College in 1993. He completed his postdoctoral fellowship at the University of Maryland School of Medicine (1988-1991).\n\nYuan began his academic career as a Research Assistant Professor of Medicine at the University of Maryland School of Medicine (1993-1998) where he established a translational research project using lung tissues and cells isolated from patients with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension to study pathogenic mechanisms of the disease. He received a Parker B. Francis Fellowship from the Francis Families Foundation in 1994 and a Giles F. Filley Memorial Award for Excellence in Respiratory Physiology and Medicine from the American Physiological Society in 1995 for his translational research work. He was also the Winner of the 1995 Cournand and Comroe Young Investigator Award of the American Heart Association. In 1998, Yuan obtained an Established Investigator Award from the American Heart Association for his pioneer work in identifying novel therapeutic approaches for pulmonary vascular disease. He was recognized as one of the highly promising young investigators in the translational research field of pulmonary vascular disease and right heart failure. In 1999, Yuan moved to the University of California, San Diego and became a Professor in 2003. His research interest was then extended to study pathogenic and therapeutic mechanisms of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension, functional role of ion channels in stem cell proliferation and differentiation, and pharmacogenetics associated with idiopathic and associated pulmonary arterial hypertension. While at the University of California, San Diego, he was the Vice Chair for Research of the Department of Medicine (2007-2010) and Associate Director for Research Training in the Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine (2003-2010). In July, 2010, Yuan moved to the University of Illinois at Chicago to assume a position of Program Director in the newly established Institute for Personalized Respiratory Medicine (2010-2014). He was also Vice Chair for Scholarly Activities of the Department of Medicine at the College of Medicine and Director of the Program in Pulmonary Vascular Disease and Right Heart Dysfunction at the Center for Cardiovascular Research in the University of Illinois at Chicago. In May, 2010, he was appointed Associate Vice President for Translational Health Sciences of the University of Arizona. At the same time, he became the founding Chief of the Division of Translational and Regenerative Medicine at the Department of Medicine of the College of Medicine.\n\nHis pulmonary vascular disease research propels the field on pathogenic roles of membrane receptors and ion channels and provides a new research direction for developing therapeutic approaches for the disease. He has been continuously funded by the NIH since 1993 when he received his FIRST award.\n\nYuan is a Fellow of the American Heart Association, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and the American Physiological Society. He is also a Guggenheim Fellow. He is an elected Member of the American Society for Clinical Investigation and the Association of American Physicians. Yuan has served on many advisory committees and editorial boards, including Chair of the Respiratory Integrative Biology and Translational Research study section of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and Chair of the Pulmonary Circulation Assembly of the American Thoracic Society. He is currently a regular member of the Vascular Cell and Molecular Biology study section of the NIH, Editor-in-Chief of the journal \"Pulmonary Circulation\", and Associate Editor of the \"American Journal of Physiology Cell Physiology\"\n\nHe is the leading editor of a comprehensive reference book in the field of pulmonary circulation, \"Textbook of Pulmonary Vascular Disease\" (Springer, New York, NY, 2011) and an editor or co-editor of the following books: \"Hypoxic Pulmonary Vasoconstriction: Cellular and Molecular Mechanisms\" (Kluwer Academic Publishers, Boston, MA, 2004); \"Ion Channels in the Pulmonary Vasculature\" (Taylor & Francis Group, Boca Raton, FL, 2005); \"Membrane Receptors, Channels, and Transporters in Pulmonary Circulation\" (Humana Press-Springer, New York, NY, 2010); \"Advances in the Management of Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension\" (Future Medicine, London, UK. 2013); and \"Lung Stem Cells in the Epithelium and Vasculature\" (Humana Press/Springer Cham Heidelberg New York Dordrecht London, 2015). He is a co-author (with Kim Barrett, Susan Barman and Heddwen Brooks) of \"Ganong’s Review of Medical Physiology\" (26th edition) (McGraw Hill Education/Chicago, 2019).\n\nYuan has received over 20 citations and awards:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17150844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17150844", "title": "Lago di Malciaussia", "text": "Lago di Malciaussia\n\nLago di Malciaussia is a reservoir situated at an elevation of 1,805 metres in the upper Valle di Viù in the north-west Italian province of Turin.\n\nThe reservoir was constructed in the 1920s and 1930s by damming the Stura di Viù, a tributary of the Stura di Lanzo, for the generation of hydropower. It is named after the locality Malciaussia—a \"frazione\" of the commune of Usseglio—which was submerged when it was filled.\n\nThe valley road terminates at this lake which makes it a convenient starting point for walking and climbing in the high Alps. From here one can ascend Rocciamelone (3,538 m), via the alpine hut “Ernesto Tazzetti”. The routes to Monte Lera, Punta Costan and Punta Sulè start as well from the lake.\n\nThis article originated as a translation of this version of its counterpart in the Italian Wikipedia.\n"}
{"id": "33908421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33908421", "title": "Latin Jam Workout", "text": "Latin Jam Workout\n\nLatin Jam Workout is a Latin Dance Fitness Program created by professional athlete and choreographer JP Santana. Founded in 2007 in Los Angeles, California, Latin Jam Workout combines techno and Latin music with dance and aerobic movements. It is a fusion of Latin dance steps such as Salsa, Merengue, Raeggaeton, Cumbia, Samba, Soca, Belly-Dancing and the faster-paced rhythms of Pop and Techno. \n\nLatin Jam Workout is taught in fitness venues, gyms, dance studios, schools and community centers by certified instructors.\n\nClasses usually run one hour, divided into an initial 15-minute warm-up, a core segment and a final cool-down. Latin Jam classes use an exclusive musical mix. The warm-up features fast-paced pop and techno beats to raise body temperature and heart rate, while the core part of the class features a mix of fast and slow rhythms to combine aerobic and resistance training.\n\nLatin Jam Workout was created by JP Santana in Los Angeles, in 2009. Since then, this fitness program has been introduced to Northern California, Utah, Colorado and Nevada. Santana created this concept to provide a complete body work-out designed to assist with weight loss with the entertainment of Latin Music that has proven to be successful in his native Colombia as well as other countries in Latin America.\n\nhttp://www.latinjamworkout.com/en/\nhttp://www.latinjamworkout.com/experience/\n"}
{"id": "38592584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38592584", "title": "List of dams and reservoirs in Austria", "text": "List of dams and reservoirs in Austria\n\nThis is a list of dams and reservoirs in Austria.\n"}
{"id": "236349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236349", "title": "List of diseases (L)", "text": "List of diseases (L)\n\nThis is a list of diseases starting with the letter \"L\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "236352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236352", "title": "List of diseases (M)", "text": "List of diseases (M)\n\nThis is a list of diseases starting with the letter \"M\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMental d – Mental m\nMental r\nMental retardation a – Mental retardation m\nMental retardation n – Mental retardation s\nMental retardation u – Mental retardation x\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMicrocephalic\nMicrocephaly\nMicrocephaly a – Microcephaly l\nMicrocephaly m – Microcephaly w\nMicroco\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMultiple a – Multiple p\nMultiple s – Multiple v\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40248538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40248538", "title": "List of food and beverage museums", "text": "List of food and beverage museums\n\nThis is a list of food and beverage museums. Food museums, beverage museums and wine museums generally provide information about how various foodstuffs are produced or were historically produced. Many of these museums are owned and operated by specific food and beverage production companies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32974502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32974502", "title": "Mushbooh", "text": "Mushbooh\n\nMushbooh () is a food designation in Islam. Literally meaning \"doubtful\" or \"suspect,\" foods are labeled mushbooh when it is unclear whether they are \"Halal\" (consumption is permitted) or Haraam(haram) (consumption is prohibited).\n"}
{"id": "25523710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25523710", "title": "Narmada Kidney Foundation", "text": "Narmada Kidney Foundation\n\nThe Narmada Kidney Foundation was established in Mumbai, India in 1993, by Dr. Bharat V. Shah. Its aim is to support patients with renal problems, and to aid their families.\n\nIts foundation was named after its founder's mother, Narmadaben Shah. “Life shared, life lived” is the Foundation's guiding principle.\nToday, the Foundation is India's only Non-governmental organization that not only provides information about kidney diseases but also how they can be prevented from occurring.\n\nThe activities in which the organization is involved are prevention camps, regular educational programs, printing and publishing of education materials, subsidized rate medicines and cadaver transplantation promotion.\n\nThe Foundation's annual Transplant Games were first held in 2008; Donor’s Day has been celebrated every year since 1997, on November 30.\n\nIn 2003, the Foundation was named in a story regarding the sale of donor kidneys. This is false. \n\n"}
{"id": "12732613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12732613", "title": "National Agricultural Safety Database", "text": "National Agricultural Safety Database\n\nThe National Ag Safety Database (NASD) was developed with funding from the United States National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the USDA Cooperative Extension Service (CES). The information contained in NASD was contributed by safety professionals and organizations from across the United States. Specifically, the objectives of the NASD project are: 1) to provide a national resource for the dissemination of information; 2) to educate workers and managers about occupational hazards associated with agriculture-related injuries, deaths and illnesses; 3) to provide prevention information; 4) to promote the consideration of safety and health issues in agricultural operations; and 5) to provide a convenient way for members of the agricultural safety and health community to share educational and research materials with their colleagues.\n\nThe original concept of NASD was a deliverable collection of safety materials contained within CD-ROMs, where the updates on CD would be periodically released. In October 1993, NIOSH provided funding through its Agricultural Health Promotion System (AHPS) grant program to develop the first CD-ROM NASD through the University of Florida's Cooperative Extension Service(CES). The first prototype of the CD-ROM collection was delivered to a select group of reviewers in October 1994, containing materials from institutions participating in the AHPS grant and from elsewhere. Reviewers provided their suggestions in a March 1995 workshop, and the general release occurred in June of the same year.\n\nThe Information Technology program associated with Florida CES was developing tools to deliver Extension publications electronically through the internet, and in October 1996, NIOSH funded a three-year program to update the database and convert the database into HTML format for delivery on the World-Wide Web. By October 1997, the entire database had been converted and a web-site was established. Expansion of the database continued, and CD-ROMs of the content were also produced during 1997(NASD'97), 1998(NASD '98), and 1999(NASD '99). In 2001, NIOSH funded the program to expand and maintain NASD. In 2002, The Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service (USDA-CREES) added funding support for NASD.\n\nIn 2002-2006, NIOSH funded NASD through the Southern Coastal Ag Center (SCAC). Dr. Carol Lehtola directed the project. In 2007-2009, NIOSH funded NASD through the University of Florida – again, Dr. Lehtola directed the project. After a 4-year hiatus, in 2013 NIOSH resumed support for NASD with funding through the Central States Center for Agricultural Safety and Health (CSCASH), the Southeast Center for Agricultural Health and Injury Prevention (SCAHIP), and the High Plains Intermountain Center for Agricultural Health and Safety (HICAHS).\n\n"}
{"id": "25785891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25785891", "title": "National Institute for Health Research", "text": "National Institute for Health Research\n\nThe National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) is the largest national clinical research funder in Europe with a budget of over £1 billion (approximately USD 1.3 billion) in 2015-16.\n\nThe NIHR was established in April 2006 as part of the UK government’s health research strategy 'Best Research for Best Health' and is funded by the Department of Health and Social Care. It has five objectives:\n\nA 2016 assessment by the independent RAND Corporation think tank found that the NIHR had \"transformed Research & Development in and for the NHS and the patients it serves.\" \n\nThe NIHR’s commissioned research programmes offer a focused source of funding for researchers within the health system in England. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland also participate in some of these programmes. The programmes aim to improve patient health and care by providing evidence to inform clinical, social care and public health professionals, NHS managers and where appropriate, policy makers. The goal is to ensure that researchers from all parts of England, and from all areas of healthcare, are able to access appropriate funding to undertake clinical and applied health and social care research, focused on priority areas and topics. NIHR have an Open Access Policy and were one of the original funders of Europe PubMed Central.\n\nNIHR programmes include:\n\nThe NIHR has established three national research ‘Schools’ (the School for Primary Care Research, the School for Social Care Research, and the School for Public Health Research). Each national school is a research collaboration between academic centres in England. The three schools aim to:\n\nThe NIHR provides the support and facilities the NHS needs for delivery of research by funding a range of infrastructure, including:\n\nThe purpose of the NIHR Faculty is to identify and bring together the people who are funded by the NIHR or by the Department of Health’s Policy Research Programme (DH PRP) to support clinical and applied health and social care research. The NIHR Faculty comprises three categories of membership:\nThe Faculty encompasses research, clinical and support staff from all professional backgrounds, including doctors, dentists, nurses, allied health professionals and pharmacists.\n\nThe current chair for the institute is Sallie Lamb.\n\nThe NIHR funds research mainly in England. As a new departure, and in line with the UK Government’s aid strategy of diffusing Official Development Assistance spending across government departments, the Department of Health and Social Care has been allocated money for global health research for the direct benefit of patients and the public in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Using the research funding management experience of the NIHR, the Department will be supporting global health research units and groups comprising universities and research institutions from across the whole of the UK working with LMIC research partners.\n\nSince its establishment, the NIHR has:\n\nIn 2016, NIHR commissioned RAND Europe and the Policy Institute at King’s College London to collate and synthesise 100 examples of positive change arising from NIHR’s support of health and care research in its first 10 years.\n\nNIHR’s work is led by Professor Chris Whitty, Chief Scientific Adviser at the Department of Health, and directed by the Senior Management Team of the Science, Research and Evidence Directorate at the Department of Health. An Advisory Board and a Strategy Board advise on the strategic direction for NIHR’s work’.\n\nDelivery of NIHR responsibilities is mainly managed by a number of 'Coordinating Centres' contracted to the Department of Health\n\nThe NIHR was created in April 2006 under the government’s health research strategy, Best Research for Best Health, with the slogan \"improving the health and wealth of the nation through research\". This strategy outlined the direction that NHS research and development should take in order ‘to improve the health and wealth of the nation through research’. At its core were five strategic goals through which it would transform the research landscape:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38978117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38978117", "title": "Native Americans and reservation inequality", "text": "Native Americans and reservation inequality\n\nNative American reservation inequality underlies a range of societal issues that affect the lives of Native American populations residing on reservations in the United States. About one third of the Native American population, about 700,000 persons, lives on an Indian Reservation in the United States. Reservation poverty and other discriminatory factors have led to persisting social inequality on Native American reservations. Disparities between many aspects of life at the national level and at the reservation level, such as quality of education, quality of healthcare, substance abuse, teenage pregnancy, violence, and suicide rates are significant in demonstrating the inequality of opportunities and situations between reservations and the rest of the country.\n\nMany contemporary disparities are rooted in the history of Indian reservations. The reservation system was created following the expansion of the United States into tribal lands throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, during United States territorial acquisitions. This effort started with the Indian Appropriations Act of 1887, which created the first reservations as Natives were forced to leave their homelands to make way for white settlers. As forced relocation progressed, many tribes lost aspects of their traditional lifestyles, which centered around community living and hunting and gathering.\n\nReservations were created on lands that were deemed worthless to white settlers, meaning they were often uncultivatable, resource deficient, and isolated from urban centers and transportation networks. The main result of this reservation system history is concentrated poverty on the reservations. Regardless of urbanness, areas of concentrated poverty tend to have higher crime rates, underperforming schools, poor housing, poor health conditions, limited private services, and few job opportunities, as is evidenced on many reservations.\n\nThe Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (ISDEAA) resulted from culminating civil rights movements and calls for increased attention on Native American Affairs. # According to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, (BIA), the act \"gave authority to federally recognized tribes to contract with the BIA for the operation of Bureau-funded schools and to determine education programs suitable for their children.\" Later federal educational amendments furthered the capabilities of reservation schools and \"provided funds directly to tribally operated schools, empowered Indian school boards, permitted local hiring of teachers and staff,\" and more.\n\nSchools on Native American reservations are disproportionately underachieving compared to other schools. According to a report made to the U.S. Department of Education \"only 17% of tribally controlled schools made Annual Yearly Progress under No Child Left Behind during the 2007-2008 school year.\" Much of the reasoning for this discrepancy is because of the widespread and disproportionate amount of reservation poverty. Consequently, \"students from low socioeconomic families face unique academic challenges, as their families may lack access to the resources and socialization experiences necessary to adequately prepare and support student achievement in school\" Furthermore, \"the lack of academically successful role models and the need to provide additional financial support to the family contributed to the high number of dropouts among Native American students who live in poverty.\" \n\nBoth student and teacher attrition are major issues in reservation schools as well. Censuses have demonstrated the trend in reservation schools that, \"despite a growth in population... enrollment in grades 1 through 12 has steadily declined...\" The High School dropout rate for Native Americans is high, much higher than the national average, and as quoted in a UCLA Civil Rights project report, \"Native students \"...have a dropout rate twice the national average; the highest dropout rate of any United States ethnic or racial group. About three out of every ten Native students drop out of school before graduating from high school both on reservations and in cities (p. 1).\"\"\n\nTeachers are also remarkably and especially difficult to retain at reservation schools, which creates problems with regularity in the classroom and many administrative difficulties as well. There are many reasons for poor teacher retention, mainly problems in \"poverty, hunger, ignorance, and disease\", as Reyhner's Teaching American Indian Students book argues, that discourage teachers when students are unable or unwilling to perform or even come to school. One of the implications of high teacher turnover is the lack of administrative stability it causes. Administrative stability is very important to long-range planning and crucial to the success of the school and its students.\n\nHealthcare on Native American reservations faces many barriers to success. Genetic predisposition to many diseases as well as significant lack of government funding, lack of medical resources, and isolation from more populated areas with more medical resources, contribute to healthcare difficulties on reservations.\n\nNative Americans have a biological genetic predisposition to be especially susceptible to several diseases and ailments. According to a 1997 study, \"with the exception of cardiovascular diseases and cancer, the risk of death from most causes are higher among Native Americans than the total US population.\"\n\nDiabetes mellitus is an especially large factor in Native American healthcare. Studies show that \"rates of diabetes and its complications…are substantially higher among Native Americans than among the US general population, and the frequency of diabetes among Native Americans is increasing.\" This increase is proposed to be based upon, as the same study states, \"several potentially modifiable factors, including obesity, dietary composition, and physical inactivity.\" It is estimated that diabetes afflicts 40%-50% of adults in Native American communities, compared with the national average of around 8%. Multiple studies, including one presented in the American Journal of Epidemiology, describe the incidence of diabetes in the Pima Indians to be 19 times greater than a comparable white majority population.\n\nHowever, more than genetic predisposition plays a significant role the afflictions of Native American populations. According to the 1997 study, \"genetic susceptibility plays a significant role in some diseases, such as diabetes, while for others, the generally lower socioeconomic status, higher prevalence of certain health risk behaviors and lower utilization of preventative services in the Native American population are important determinants.\" Also, before WWII, diabetes in Native American Communities was essentially non-existent.\n\nBecause the traditional way of life had been taken away from the Native Americans, a domino effect of problems began to arise. During a normal day of hunting, gathering, and normal activities, the pre-reservation Indians expanded approximately 4,000 calories a day, while eating a high fiber, low fat diet. After the reservation system went into effect, Indians were no longer able to hunt or gather food, but expected to farm in a community that at certain places had no water source, or there was no money to buy supplies for a farm in the first place, which led to more poverty. Poverty led to poor eating habits, which led to diseases such as diabetes mellitis.\n\nAfter the Indian Removal Act of 1830, subsequent treaties arose such as the Dawes Act of 1887 which broke up reservations into smaller pieces. In 1868, the Federal Government established the Indian Peace Commission which took thousands of acres of land promised to Indians in previous treaties. With the diminishing of their land, Indians had to deal with diminishing health as well.\n\nThe lack of preventative medicine knowledge and resources, specifically, contributes to and exacerbates the medical predispositions of many Native Americans. The lack of research done on, and the lack of attention paid to Native Americans and reservation healthcare is part of the problem. A study done by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality found that \"only 42% of measures of health care quality and access tracked in the National Healthcare Disparities Report could be used to assess disparities among American Indians and Alaska Natives.\" The same source also argued that \"data from American Indians and Alaska Natives need to be improved to allow better targeting of interventions to reduce health care disparities and monitoring the success of these activities.\"\n\nThe Indian Health Service is a federal program whose purpose is to provide medical service and support to Native Americans. The service covers all members of federally recognized tribes, over 4 million people. While it receives significant federal funds in the billions of dollars, this is still several times less than what it should be, as estimated by tribal leaders.\n\nAdditionally, federal spending cuts have slashed the program down another $800,000 this year with sequestration cuts, further reducing the already under-funded program and further exacerbating the issues of healthcare for Native Americans.\n\nAmerican Indians of all ages and sexes have a generally high prevalence of obesity. Researchers have identified that issue has only come to light in the past few generations and much of it is linked to many individuals having a lack of healthy food options and an increased amount of time spent being sedentary. The overall health of Native Americans is considerably worse than the general population. Since the early 1950s, the rate of mortality from infectious disease has decreased substantially. But mortality related to behavioral or lifestyle factors has increased, and chronic diseases such as diabetes mellitus, heart disease, and cancer are among the leading causes of death in adults. Chronic diseases such as diabetes mellitus in particular, are strong indicators of an increasing prevalence of obesity in American Indians. Because the prevalence rates of obesity are higher in American Indians, studies have shown that the population will suffer from greater health complications later on in life as well.\n\nThe problem of poor nutrition in Native American communities has a historical narrative. The traditional Native American diet consisted wholly of lean meats, protein, fruits and vegetables and low in fat, non-processed sugars and sodium. Native people also hunted and fished quite extensively. This lifestyle persevered until the 1830s through the 1840s, when under the Indian Removal Act, Native American tribes signed treaties with the U.S. government that relocated the entire population to live on secluded land which became known as a reservation. This relocation also removed the Native people from their usual sources of food and the active lifestyle that hunting and gathering required. The removal created a significant dissonance in the ability to nourish properly. In addition, in 1890, the government placed a ban on Native Americans which prevented them from leaving their lands to fish, hunt or gather in their usual territories. In exchange, they were given government rations of flour, lard and sugar. These options were much cheaper but contained proportionally lower nutritional value. These foods became the new staple for American Indians as they developed a taste for the only foods available to them by law. Overtime, these foods were introduced to subsequent generations and the food became socialized into the household.\n\nNear many Indian reservations, the access to healthy food can be a big challenge. Areas surrounding many reservations are large food deserts, which are defined as communities without ready access to healthy and affordable food. Food deserts shift the consumer focus of eating healthier food to just merely securing enough food to feed individuals. The geographical isolation of many reservations create logistical and cost challenges, limiting people's ability to access affordable nutritious food because they live far from large grocery stores. Many reservations also do not have adequate transportation in and out, so that increases the difficulty of being able to go to grocery stores in the area. In some studies, researchers have found that rural residence was positively associated with food insecurity for American Indian households without children. In addition, American Indians had significantly higher levels of food insecurity than the rest of the population, even after controlling for a wide range of demographic and socioeconomic characteristics. In order to combat the issue of food insecurity in Native American communities, a sub-set of the food stamp program, known as the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations, or FDPIR, was started. The program provides culturally appropriate food to Native American communities. The logistical reality of the program is that it is a delivery system. The USDA purchases and ships FDPIR foods to the corresponding state agencies based on their orders from a list of available foods. These administering agencies store and distribute the food, determine applicant eligibility, and provide nutrition education to recipients. USDA provides the administering agencies with funds for program administrative costs. Individuals are eligible for the program if they 'qualify as American Indian or non-Indian households that reside on a reservation. You could also quality if you belong to a household in approved areas near a reservation or in Oklahoma that contain at least one person who is a member of a federally-recognized tribe.\n\nDiabetes is a prevalent issue in the American Indian and Native American communities. Some of the issues that arise from diabetes are accelerated development of cardiovascular diseases, renal disease, and loss of visual acuity, all of which contribute to excess morbidity and mortality rates. Akin to obesity, the increasing prevalence has been attributed to lifestyle changes in diet and physical activity. Among youth with Type II diabetes, an estimated 50 to 90 percent have a BMI ≥ 85th percentile for age. The prevalence of obesity among AI youth with Type II diabetes was 79.4 percent. Obesity prevalence was only 12.5 percent among youth with Type I diabetes. Other risk factors for Type II diabetes include family history and hypertension.The serious complications of diabetes are increasing in frequency among Native Americans. Of major concern are increasing rates of kidney failure, amputations, and blindness. Among people with diabetes, the rate of diabetic end-stage renal disease is six times higher among Native Americans. Diabetes is the most frequent cause of non-traumatic lower limb amputations. Amputation rates among Native Americans are 3-4 times higher than the general population. Diabetic retinopathy is a term used for all abnormalities of the small blood vessels of the retina caused by diabetes, such as weakening of blood vessel walls or leakage from blood vessels. Diabetic retinopathy occurs in 18 percent of Pima Indians and 24.4 percent of Oklahoma Indians. Obesity is a particularly important challenge to the health status of Native Americans because of a lack of resources and health interventions. Most studies of Native American infants, preschool children, schoolchildren, and adults have confirmed a high prevalence of being overweight. Researchers have hypothesized that there is a genetic component to being overweight as well as a large amount of environmental factors that contribute.\n\nCommunity-based interventions to modify diet and activity levels to prevent obesity in Native American communities are important steps in addressing obesity in Native American communities at an early age, but many of these programs are either grossly underfunded or do not exist in a capacity in which they are needed. Pilot school-based programs in the Southwestern United States suggest that Native American communities are actively receptive towards interventions within a school setting and that over time there is the potential of having a lower number of children meeting the BMI threshold of being obese. The cultural diversity of the Native American community along with the geographic diversity of many reservations, makes one specific kind of policy difficult. In ideal circumstances, Native Americans with diabetes will have their disease under good control and be monitored frequently by a healthcare team knowledgeable in the care of diabetes. Because people with diabetes have a multi-system, chronic disease, they are best monitored and managed by highly skilled healthcare professionals trained with the latest information on diabetes to help ensure early detection and appropriate treatment of the serious complications of the disease. A team approach to treating and monitoring this disease serves the best interests of the patient. Patient education is critical. People with diabetes can reduce their risk for complications if they are educated about their disease, learn, and practice the skills necessary to better control their blood glucose levels, and receive regular checkups from their healthcare team. People with diabetes, with the help of their healthcare providers, should set goals for better control of blood glucose levels, as close to the normal range as possible for them.\n\nThe largest Indian reservation in the United States, the Navajo nation, approved a sales tax on junk-food sold within the reservation. The piece of legislation approved increased by 2% the sales tax on food with little to no nutritional value. The tax was placed until the year 2020, which the-Navajo nation council. Navajos in favor wanted to pass a bill that could serve as a model for Indian country to improve the rates of diabetes and obesity among tribal members. Proposals targeting sugary drinks with proposed bans, size limits, tax hikes and warning labels haven't gained widespread traction across the country. The effort is really much more in the message of Navajo people making better choices for quality foods. The obesity rate for some age groups is as high as 60%. Diabetes was the fourth-leading cause of death in the Navajo area from 2003 to 2005, the health service said. With a junk-food tax, lawmakers looked to increase support among other neighboring reservations. The pilot project will last until 2020, after which the analysis of obesity and the health of Native Americans living in the Navajo nation will be assessed.\n\nThe use of drugs, alcohol, and cigarettes on reservations is higher on Native American reservations than the national averages. According to research on alcoholism in Native American populations, \"the problem of alcohol abuse is now defined as one that is both foreign to and destructive of the traditional culture\" Native American youth show higher rates of drinking and drug use than most other racial or ethnic groups and those that live on reservations are at the highest risk of developing alcohol related problems. According to Kunitz study on alcoholism in Native American populations, reasons for the prevalence of alcoholism and alcohol consumption on reservations is attributable to \"access to alcohol became much easier, and patterns of drinking that had not been particularly problematic in the past began to have measurable consequences in respect of morbidity and mortality.\" Such consumption and addiction is especially prevalent on reservations. Another explanation for the prevalence of alcoholism on reservations is advertising and the responsibility of beer and alcohol manufacturers and distributors.\n\nMarijuana and prescription drug use for Native American teens are twice the national average and young people have been shown to start experimenting with alcohol at the age of 14. The onset of alcohol usage before the age of 15 has been found to be associated with lower achievement, academic problems, drug use and alcoholism later in life.\n\nAlcoholism in Native American populations has been shown to be associated with development of disease, including sprains and muscle strains, hearing and vision problems, kidney and bladder problems, head injuries, pneumonia, tuberculosis, dental problems, liver problems, and pancreatitis. Alcoholism death rates among young Native Americans is 3.4 deaths per 100,000, over ten times the national average of 0.3 deaths per 100,000 of the general population. Though alcohol usage varies by region and tribal affiliation, there remains a high risk factor for all Native American populations and particularly those on Native American reservations.\n\nTeenage pregnancy among the Native American population represents the third highest birth rate in the United States with 59 per 1,000 births in 2007. Between 2005 and 2007 the birth rate among Native Indian teen girls increased 12%, more than twice the national increase in teenage pregnancy. Rates of teenage pregnancy however differ by geographic region and tribal affiliation. Teen pregnancy of 15- to 19-year-old women in the Navajo Tribe have among the highest rates of teenage pregnancy, 15.8% higher than the national average.\n\nNative American populations show some of the lowest documented rates of contraceptive use in the United States. A recent health study shows that 65% of males and 57% of females report having sexual intercourse by the 12th grade. Only 40% and 50% respectively report always using contraceptives and more than one third of males and one half of females had sex without contraceptives between the 7th and 9th grade. 7% of females in a study of Native American schools report incidences of pregnancy but rates are skewed due to school drop out rates. Data from the ADD Health Survey conducted on students of Bureau of Indian Affairs schools show that high school students from schools on Native American land are more likely to have had sexual intercourse when compared to the national rates of high school students. In general Native youth are more likely to have sexual intercourse at a younger age compared to their peers and are less likely to have used contraception the last time they had sex compared to their peers.\n\nThe low rates of contraceptive use are sometimes attributed to a historical disinclination of public discussions of sexuality and perceptions of shame associated with sexual behavior. Additionally access to sexual health organizations and family planning centers on Native American reservations remains limited.\n\nThe high concentration of poverty and extreme poverty on Native American reservations has potentially severe consequences for pregnant teenagers. These negative consequences include educational deficits, economic strain, poor marital outcomes, as well as slowed cognitive, social, and physical development in children of adolescent parents. In 2006, 90% of teenage pregnancies among Native teenagers aged 15 to 19 were to unmarried mothers. Single parent, female headed households are at higher risk of impoverishment with almost 41% of all single parent female headed households in the United States residing below the national poverty line.\n\nThe recent rise in teenage pregnancy in Native Teen populations coupled with the already high rates of poverty on Native American Reservations has potentially detrimental consequences for Native families. A Study completed by the United States Department of Agriculture found Native American young mothers on reservations show a tendency to begin prenatal care later than their peers. They were also found to have higher rates of substance abuse during pregnancy and are more likely to have diabetes during pregnancy. Native Americans on reservations in particular showed greater rates of participation in public assistance services and their children suffered higher rates of nutritional, dietary, and clinical risks than children not born on the reservation. Advocates suggest the implementation of policies and programs that will delay sexual initiation and improve contraceptive use among Native teenagers as a possible solution to the rising rates of teen pregnancy.\n\nNative American women have the highest rates of violent crime victimization, more than double that of other racial groups. In the violent acts committed against Native women, Native American women are more likely to have injuries that require medical attention than crimes committed against other races. They are also more likely to face an armed assailant than female victims of violent acts of other races. On a number of Native American reservations Native Women are murdered at a rate representing ten times the national average. Violent crime rates over all on Native American reservations are 2.5 times the national average while some individual reservations reach 20 times the national average of violent crime.\n\nSome scholars suggest that historically, physical and sexual violence in Native American communities was rare in Pre-Colonial society. Traditional gender roles advocated co-dependence, where women's contributions were honored and respected and where violence against Native women was heavily punished by Native justice systems.\n\nColonial and Post-colonial changes in Native American society spurred transformations in these traditional perceptions of gender norms and Native American societal structure. The General Allotment Act of 1887 allocated private lands to male heads of household that belied many traditions of maternal land inheritance. Women also were denied access to farming responsibilities that took away venues for accruing leadership and honor within the community.\n\nThe conversion of traditional names to Christian names in the evangelical movement to Christianize Native populations also decreased female gender status. The historical tracing of lineage through maternal lines were changed to follow kinship ties through the father's last name. These changes in gender norms are suggested to contribute to the high rates of violent crimes against Native American women.\n\nAccording to the National Violence Against Women Survey, 34% of American Indian and Alaskan Native women have suffered attempted or completed rape within their lifetimes. This is greater than the 18% of white women, 19% of African American women and 7% of Asian and Pacific Islander women that completed the survey. In South Dakota, only 10% of the population is Native American but Native women make up 40% of all sexual assault cases in the state. Similarly, Alaska Natives make up only 15% of the population but represent 61% of victims of reported sexual assault cases.\n\nWhile nationwide most sexual offences are intra-racial or between members of the same race, the sexual offences against Native American women and Alaskan Native women are more often committed by white offenders. 1/3 of sexual offences committed against Native women are intra-racial.\n\nAlthough violent crime and sexual assault rates are high in Native American reservations, prosecution for these crimes is relatively low. In 2007, on the Navajo Nation, of the 329 rape cases reported among a population of 180,000 individuals, only 17 arrests were made in five years. In 2011, of all rape cases reported on Native American reservations the Justice Department only prosecuted 65%. Correspondingly, Native American reservations have a high proportion of sex offenders within the population.\n\nThe low prosecution rates and rates of arrest result from numerous factors. Native American women have extremely low rates of reporting sexual assault. Some women's advocacy groups in Native American communities suggest that only 10% of all sexual offences are reported. Many Native women report feelings of betraying the community by coming forward, especially if the non-Native court systems are involved. Native Women also report a lack of faith in the local law enforcement to make arrests and prosecute offenders.\n\nEven when sexual assaults are reported to the authorities, prosecution is not certain. According to a study by Amnesty International in 2006, the local police often either do not respond to a sexual assault case or take hours or days to respond to the victims reports. Additionally due to the overlapping jurisdiction of tribal, state, and federal authorities, enforcement of protection orders for victims remains largely unreliable. Tension between these three groups hinders responsiveness and efficiency in the prosecution of sexual offenders and the protection of the victims.\n\nTribal authorities also have limited jurisdiction over the prosecution of non-native offenders. 46% of the Native American reservation population are non-natives. As of 1978, under the Supreme Court case Oliphant v. Suquamish Indian Tribe, tribal courts are denied inherent jurisdiction to criminally prosecute non-natives. Tribal governments therefore have limited powers of legal processes over a significant portion of the resident population. This has negative impacts due to the high rates of intra-racial sexual assaults against Native American women.\n\nThe re-authorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) spurred controversy among the Native American community in 2012. The act, having expired, lent itself to revisions in the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate. The Senate's re-authorization worked to eliminate some of the limitations on criminal jurisdiction of the tribal courts. In the summer of 2012, the Republican majority in the House of Representatives proffered a separate re-authorization of VAWA. The House re-authorization stripped tribal protections from the jurisdiction of tribal courts. The House's Bill would disallow Indian tribal courts from accusing non-natives on the grounds of domestic violence within reservations.\n\nPresident Obama's White House administration vowed to veto any re-authorization of VAWA that failed to include the tribal protection clause. On February 28, 2013, President Barack Obama received the Senate's re-authorization of VAWA after a vote passing the act in both the House of Representatives and the Senate.\n\nNative American and Alaskan Native populations have disproportionately high rates of homicide and suicide, particularly among younger populations. Between 1979 -1992, 2,394 individuals who lived in or near a reservation committed suicide. This represents 1.5 times the national average during these 14 years. Since 1950 the suicide rate among 15- to 24-year-old Native American youths has increased between 200% and 300%. This rate is higher than other racial groups, making Indian youth suicide rates 2 to 3 times the rates nationwide. Suicide rates are greatest especially among Native American males following the general trends of gender and suicide.[\n\nSuicide rates vary depending on region and tribal affiliation but rates are particularly high in the Southwestern United States, the northern Rocky Mountains and Great Plains, and in Alaska. High suicide rates are often correlated with drug use, alcoholism, depression, and poverty, widespread in many Native American reservations. Studies have shown that early substance abuse can lead to higher homicide and suicide rates among a population group.\n\nRisk factors for suicide often include a sense of hopelessness, alcohol abuse, depression, poverty and a triggering conflict or event which can include conflict or loss. Among 77% of males that attempted or completed suicide had incomes of less than 10,000 dollars and 79% were unemployed. Native American youth also report higher rates of exposure to violence and sexual and physical abuse, both correlated to suicide rates. Other possible contributing factors include the mother's age at delivery, family conflict, and financial instability. Additionally 20% of all individuals who attempted or completed suicide had a parent who had also attempted or completed suicide.\n\nCommunity-based programming has been shown to effectively alleviate some of the risk factors on Native American reservations associated with suicide. These programs have been proven to decrease substance abuse and increase communal connections and support.\n\n"}
{"id": "46982495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46982495", "title": "Ovarian remnant syndrome", "text": "Ovarian remnant syndrome\n\nResidual ovary syndrome or ovarian remnant syndrome is a condition that occurs when ovarian tissue is left behind following oophorectomy, causing development of a pelvic mass, pelvic pain, and occasionally dyspareunia. Ovarian remnant syndrome (ORS) is characterized by the presence of residual ovarian tissue after a woman has had surgery to remove one ovary or both ovaries (oophorectomy).\n\nThe cause of ORS is the unintentional retention of ovarian tissue after the procedure to remove the ovaries. If a woman is receiving hormone replacement therapy, distinguishing from other disease process may be difficult. Other confounding conditions contributing to ORS are thick and profuse pelvic adhesions, inflammation, bleeding after surgery (peri-operative bleeding), and ovaries which are retroperitoneal, can all contribute to the unintentional preservation of ovarian fragments.\n\nIf ovarian hormones are present after the ovaries are removed can be a sign that ovarian tissue still remains. Signs and symptoms may include pelvic pain, a pelvic mass, or the absence of menopause after oophorectomy. Factors may include pelvic adhesions (limiting ability to see the ovary or causing it to adhere to other tissues); anatomic variations; bleeding during surgery; or poor surgical technique. Treatment is indicated for people with symptoms and typically involves surgery to remove the residual tissue. Therapy for those who refuse surgery, cannot have surgery, or do not have a pelvic mass may include hormonal therapy to suppress ovarian function.\n\nSome women have symptoms consistent with endometriosis, including difficult or painful intercourse; urinary symptoms; or bowel symptoms. It is likely that some women with ORS don't have any symptoms, but the rate of this is unknown.In most cases, symptoms occur within the first five years of the oophorectomy, although there are reports of ORS presenting 20 years after the initial surgery.\n\nSurgical exploration and  of possible ovarian tissue is required for the definitive diagnosis of ORS, and treatment by excision of the remnant ovarian tissue may be performed during the same procedure. For women who are not candidates for surgery, a clinical diagnosis can be made based on the symptoms and levels (follicle-stimulating hormone and estradiol, after bilateral oophorectomy) and/or  findings consistent with the presence of residual ovarian tissue. Laparoscopy and histological assessment can aid in diagnosis.\n\nThe risk of ovarian remnant  (ORS) is increased by incomplete removal of the ovarian  at the time of oophorectomy. Surgical factors that contribute to incomplete removal include those that limit surgical exposure of the ovary, or compromise surgical technique. Factors may include:\nOvarian remnant  (ORS) may first be considered in women who have undergone oophorectomy and have suggestive symptoms, the presence of a  mass, or evidence of persistent ovarian function (by symptoms or laboratory testing). A history of oophorectomy is required, by definition, to make the diagnosis. Notes regarding the indication for the procedure and the procedure itself should be reviewed and may include prior abdominal or pelvic surgery, endometriosis, and/or poor surgical visualization. If ORS is possible, pelvic  should be performed to evaluate for a pelvic mass.[1]\n\nTreatment for ovarian remnant  (ORS) is generally indicated for women with suspected ORS who have symptoms (such as  pain); have a pelvic mass; or need or desire complete removal of  to decrease the risk of ovarian  (for example, BRCA  ). The mainstay of treatment is surgery to remove the residual ovarian tissue. Women with ORS with a pelvic mass should have appropriate evaluation for malignancy (cancer). Hormonal therapy to suppress ovarian function is an alternative treatment for those who refuse surgery, or those who are not candidates for surgery. Medications may be used to treat ORS and include GnRH agonists, danazol, or progesterone.\n\nThe incidence of ovarian remnant syndrome is difficult to determine. The available data are limited to case reports or to retrospective case series. The best available data are from a study describing the frequency and outcome of laparoscopy in women with chronic pelvic pain and/or a pelvic mass who were found to have ovarian remnants. In 119 women who underwent hysterectomy and oophorectomy by laparoscopy, ovarian remnants were known in 5 and were found during surgery in 21 patients (18%).[2] However, this was a small study and the participants were only symptomatic women. Therefore, it is not known whether the data can be extrapolated to include all women who have undergone oophorectomy.\n\n"}
{"id": "53690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53690", "title": "Physical Quality of Life Index", "text": "Physical Quality of Life Index\n\nThe Physical Quality of Life Index (PQLI) is an attempt to measure the quality of life or well-being of a country. The value is the average of three statistics: basic literacy rate, infant mortality, and life expectancy at age one, all equally weighted on a 0 to 100 scale.\n\nIt was developed for the Overseas Development Council in the mid-1970s by Morris David Morris, as one of a number of measures created due to dissatisfaction with the use of GNP as an indicator of development. PQLI might be regarded as an improvement but shares the general problems of measuring quality of life in a quantitative way. It has also been criticized because there is considerable overlap between infant mortality and life expectancy.\n\nThe UN Human Development Index is a more widely used means of measuring well-being.\n\nSteps to Calculate Physical Quality of Life:\n\n1) Find percentage of the population that is literate (literacy rate).\n\n2) Find the infant mortality rate. (out of 1000 births)\nINDEXED Infant Mortality Rate = (166 - infant mortality) × 0.625\n\n3) Find the Life Expectancy.\nINDEXED Life Expectancy = (Life expectancy - 42) × 2.7\n\n4) Physical Quality of Life =\n\n"}
{"id": "13491512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13491512", "title": "Ponseti method", "text": "Ponseti method\n\nThe Ponseti method is a manipulative technique that corrects congenital clubfoot without invasive surgery. It was developed by Ignacio V. Ponseti of the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, USA in the 1950s, and was repopularized in 2000 by John Herzenberg in the USA and Europe and in Africa by NHS surgeon Steve Mannion. It is a standard treatment for club foot.\n\nPonseti treatment was introduced in UK in the late 1990s and widely popularized around the country by NHS physiotherapist Steve Wildon.\nThe manipulative treatment of clubfoot deformity is based on the inherent properties of the connective tissue, cartilage, and bone, which respond to the proper mechanical stimuli created by the gradual reduction of the deformity. The ligaments, joint capsules, and tendons are stretched under gentle manipulations. A plaster cast is applied after each manipulation to retain the degree of correction and soften the ligaments. The displaced bones are thus gradually brought into the correct alignment with their joint surfaces progressively remodeled yet maintaining congruency. After two months of manipulation and casting the foot appears slightly over-corrected. After a few weeks in splints however, the foot looks normal.\n\nProper foot manipulations require a thorough understanding of the anatomy and kinematics of the normal foot and of the deviations of the tarsal bones in the clubfoot. Poorly conducted manipulations will further complicate the clubfoot deformity. The non-operative treatment will succeed better if it is started a few days or weeks after birth and if the podiatrist understands the nature of the deformity and possesses manipulative skill and expertise in plaster-cast applications.\n\nThe Ponseti's technique is painless, fast, cost-effective and successful in almost 100% of all congenital clubfoot cases. The Ponseti method is endorsed and supported by World Health Organization National Institutes of Health, American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, Pediatric Orthopedic Society of North America, European Pediatric Orthopedic Society, CURE International, STEPS Charity UK, STEPS Charity South Africa, and A Leg to Stand On (India).\n\n1. The calcaneal internal rotation (adduction) and plantar flexion is the key deformity. The foot is adducted and plantar-flexed at the subtalar joint, and the goal is to abduct the foot and dorsiflex it. In order to achieve correction of the clubfoot, the calcaneus should be allowed to rotate freely under the talus bone, which also is free to rotate in the ankle mortise. The correction takes place through the normal arc of the subtalar joint. This is achieved by placing the index finger of the operator on the medial malleolus to stabilize the leg and levering on the thumb placed on the lateral aspect head of the talus while abducting the forefoot in supination. Forcible attempts at correcting the heel varus by abducting the forefoot while applying counter pressure at the calcaneocuboid joint prevents the calcaneus from abducting and therefore everting.\n\n2. Foot cavus increases when the forefoot is pronated. If cavus is present, the first step in the manipulation process is to supinate the forefoot by gently lifting the dropped first metatarsal to correct the cavus. Once the cavus is corrected, the forefoot can be abducted as outlined in step 1.\n\n3. Pronation of the foot also causes the calcaneus to jam under the talus. The calcaneum cannot rotate and stays in varus. The cavus increases as outlined in step 2. This results in a bean-shaped foot. At the end of step 1, the foot is maximally abducted but never pronated.\n\n4. The manipulation is carried out in the cast room, with the baby having been fed just prior to the treatment or even during the treatment. After the foot is manipulated, a long leg cast is applied to hold the correction. Initially, the short leg component is applied. The cast should be snug with minimal but adequate padding. The authors paint or spray the limb with tincture of benzoin to allow adherence of the padding to the limb. The authors prefer to apply additional padding strips along the medial and lateral borders to facilitate safe removal of the cast with a cast saw. The cast must incorporate the toes right up to the tips but not squeeze the toes or obliterate the transverse arch. The cast is molded to contour around the heel while abducting the forefoot against counter pressure on the lateral aspect of the head of the talus. The knee is flexed to 90° for the long leg component of the cast. The parents can soak these casts for 30–45 minutes prior to removal with a plaster knife. The authors' preferred method is to use the oscillating plaster saw for cast removal. The cast is bivalved and removed. The cast then is reconstituted by coapting the two halves. This allows for monitoring of the progress of the forefoot abduction and, in the later stages, the amount of dorsiflexion or equinus correction.\n\n5. Forcible correction of the equinus (and cavus) by dorsiflexion against a tight Achilles tendon results in a spurious correction through a break in the midfoot, resulting in a rocker-bottom foot. The cavus should be separately treated as outlined in step 2, and the equinus should be corrected without causing a midfoot break. It generally takes up to 4–7 casts to achieve maximum foot abduction. The casts are changed weekly. The foot abduction (correction) can be considered adequate when the thigh-foot axis is 60°. After maximal foot abduction is obtained, most cases require a percutaneous Achilles tenotomy. This is performed in the cast room under aseptic conditions. The local area is anesthetized with a combination of a topical lignocaine preparation (e.g. EMLA cream) and minimal local infiltration of lidocaine. The tenotomy is performed through a stab incision with a round tip (#6400) Beaver blade. The wound is closed with a single absorbable suture or with adhesive strips.The final cast is applied with the foot in maximum dorsiflexion, and the foot is held in the cast for 2–3 weeks.\n\n6. Following the manipulation and casting phase, the feet are fitted with open-toed straight-laced shoes attached to a Denis Browne bar. The affected foot is abducted (externally rotated) to 70° with the unaffected foot set at 45° of abduction. The shoes also have a heel counter bumper to prevent the heel from slipping out of the shoe. The shoes are worn for 23 hours a day for three months and are worn at night and during naps for up to three years.\n\n7. In 10–30% of cases, a tibialis anterior tendon transfer to the lateral cuneiform is performed when the child is approximately three years of age. This gives lasting correction of the forefoot, preventing metatarsus adductus and foot inversion. This procedure is indicated in a child aged 2–2.5 years with dynamic supination of the foot. Prior to surgery, cast the foot in a long leg cast for a few weeks to regain the correction.\n\n"}
{"id": "25230517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25230517", "title": "Post-maturity syndrome", "text": "Post-maturity syndrome\n\nPost-maturity syndrome develops in about 20% of human pregnancies continuing past the expected dates. Features of post-maturity syndrome include oligohydramnios, meconium aspiration, macrosomia and fetal problems such as dry peeling skin, overgrown nails, abundant scalp hair, visible creases on palms and soles, minimal fat deposition and skin colour become green or yellow due to meconeum staining.\n\nIf there are no maternal or fetal complications, labour can be induced after assessing the favourability of the cervix and excluding cephalo-pelvic disproportions. Otherwise emergency lower segment Caesarean section (LSCS) should be made.\n\nThe syndrome was first described by Stewart H. Clifford in 1954.\n"}
{"id": "34971715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34971715", "title": "Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking", "text": "Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking\n\nQuiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking is a 2012 non-fiction book written by Susan Cain. Cain argues that modern Western culture misunderstands and undervalues the traits and capabilities of introverted people, leading to \"a colossal waste of talent, energy, and happiness.\"\n\nThe book presents a history of how Western culture transformed from a culture of character to a culture of personality in which an \"extrovert ideal\" dominates and introversion is viewed as inferior or even pathological. Adopting scientific definitions of introversion and extroversion as preferences for different levels of stimulation, \"Quiet\" outlines the advantages and disadvantages of each temperament, emphasizing the myth of the extrovert ideal that has dominated in the West since the early twentieth century. Asserting that temperament is a core element of human identity, Cain cites research in biology, psychology, neuroscience and evolution to demonstrate that introversion is both common and normal, noting that many of humankind's most creative individuals and distinguished leaders were introverts. Cain urges changes at the workplace, in schools, and in parenting; offers advice to introverts for functioning in an extrovert-dominated culture; and offers advice in communication, work, and relationships between people of differing temperament.\n\nCain graduated from Princeton University and Harvard Law School and became a lawyer and negotiations consultant. Her interest in writing on the subject of introversion reportedly stemmed from her own difficulties with public speaking, which made Harvard Law School \"a trial.\" She likened her tenure as a Wall Street lawyer to time spent in a foreign country. Cain left her careers in corporate law and consulting, for a quieter life of writing at home with her family.\n\nSeven years in the making, Cain's book, \"Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking\" was published January 24, 2012. Asked what inspired her to write the book, Cain likened introverts today to women at the dawn of the feminist movement—second-class citizens with gigantic amounts of untapped talent. She said that our institutions are designed for extroverts, causing many introverts to believe that something is wrong with them and that they should try to 'pass' as extroverts. She concluded that this bias against introversion leads to \"a colossal waste of talent, energy, and happiness,\" saying that it is \"the next great diversity issue of our time.\"\n\nCain argues that modern Western culture misunderstands and undervalues the traits and capabilities of introverted people, employing academic research, supplemented with anecdotes, to describe how American culture got to this point.\n\nCain says Western, and in particular, American, culture is dominated by what she calls the \"Extrovert Ideal,\" described as \"the omnipresent belief that the ideal self is gregarious, alpha and comfortable in the spotlight.\" Western societies, being based on the Greco-Roman ideal which praises oratory, favor the man of action over the man of contemplation, and view introversion as being between a disappointment and pathology. In contrast, traditional, pre-Americanized Asian culture is more inclined to value reticence and caution. \"The Harvard Independent's\" Faith Zhang remarked that \"Quiet\" seems in part a gentle rebuke to a culture that values style over substance.\n\nCain traces the historical roots of the Extrovert Ideal to the rise of industrial America in the late 19th century, before which a culture of character dominated, and after which \"a perfect storm of big business, urbanization and mass immigration\" changed America into what historian Warren Susman called a culture of personality, in which perception trumps truth. \"The Globe and Mail's\" Zosia Bielski described this transformation as being aligned with \"the rise of the salesman\" and \"the move from morals to magnetism\"—which Cain says has changed forever “who we are and whom we admire, how we act at job interviews and what we look for in an employee, how we court our mates and raise our children.”\n\nIn general terms, Cain has stated that we can’t be in a group of people without instinctively mirroring each other, and groups follow the most charismatic person, even though there is no correlation between being a good speaker and having great ideas. Cain says collective thinking approaches not only \"favor\" dominant extroverts, but that relying on brainstorming is a mistake, arguing that serious original thought and the expertise that generates it are almost always individual. Cain cites physiological research showing that when people (not just introverts) oppose group consensus, their brains' amygdalae \"light up\"—signaling fear of rejection—thus discouraging potentially valuable individual contributions to the group. Cain cites research indicating that people are more creative when they enjoy privacy and freedom from interruption, the implication being that \"enforced\" teamwork can stifle creativity. As a concrete example of the risks of groupthink, Cain mentions juries, in which the desire for social cohesion can sometimes short-circuit justice. She suggests that the predominantly extroverted temperament of management in the investment and banking industries—which temperament involves dopamine-related reward seeking tendencies—may have contributed to the 2008 banking crisis.\n\nVarious schools of psychology define introversion differently. Cain’s definition is that \"introverts have a preference for a quiet, more minimally stimulating environment.\" Introverts tend to enjoy quiet concentration, listen more than they talk, and think before they speak, and have a more circumspect and cautious approach to risk. Introverts think more, are less reckless and focus on what really matters—relationships and meaningful work. Conversely, extroverts are energized by social situations and tend to be assertive multi-taskers who think out loud and on their feet. Cain notes that between one-third and one-half of Americans may be classified as introverts, though individuals fall at different places along an introvert-extrovert \"spectrum.\" People falling near the middle of the spectrum are called “ambiverts.”\n\nCain distinguishes introversion from superficially similar personality traits, in particular charging the perceived identity between shyness and introversion to be a huge misconception. She explains that shyness is inherently uncomfortable but introversion is not. Crediting retired developmental psychologist Jerome Kagan, \"Quiet\" recognizes that there is not a single cause for a given behavior; there are many routes to behaviors such as being slow to warm up, shyness, and impulsivity. Cain distinguishes \"introversion\"—characterized by her as a preference for a quiet, more minimally stimulating environment—from being \"shy\" (a fear of negative judgment) and from being \"anti-social\" (introverts and extroverts being \"differently\" social), and from autism (inability to read social cues and understand other minds not being characteristic of introverts.)\n\nCain asserts that whether one is outwardly oriented to the surrounding world, or inwardly oriented to the inner riches of the mind, has as profound an effect as one's gender. Cain asserted that our lives are shaped as profoundly by personality as by gender or race, that the single most important aspect of personality is where we fall on the introvert-extrovert spectrum, and that one's place on this continuum \"influences our choice of friends and mates, how we make conversation, resolve differences, and show love. It affects the careers we choose and whether or not we succeed at them.\"\n\nAccording to Cain, in a culture that is biased against them, introverts are pressured to \"act\" like extroverts instead of embracing their serious, often quiet and reflective style. Cain's research included visits to what she termed three nerve centers of the Extrovert Ideal—a Tony Robbins self-help seminar, the Harvard Business School, and a megachurch—noting the discomfort and struggles experienced by introverts in those environments and \"shining a light\" on the bias against introversion. She said that people have to act out of our true character sometimes but that it’s not healthy to act out of one's true character most or all of the time: \"Whenever you try to pass as something you’re not, you lose a part of yourself along the way. You especially lose a sense of how to spend your time.\"\n\nHowever, Cain essentially adopts the \"Free Trait Theory\" of Dr. Brian Little, agreeing that introverts are capable of acting like extroverts for (core personal goals)—work they consider important, people they love, or anything they value highly—provided they also grant themselves \"restorative niches,\" which are places to go and time to be their real selves. Also, in a February 2012 article, Cain listed six self-help strategies introverts may use to nourish their strengths, including \"talking deeply,\" working alone, reading others' works (\"a deeply social act\"), listening well, taking mini-breaks from overstimulating environments, and practicing \"quiet commitment.\"\n\nCain maintains that there are introverts and extroverts in almost every species of the animal kingdom, each having a corresponding survival strategy. She says that research indicates our own degree of introversion or extroversion is detectable in infants and likely to be , and about 50% heritable (half by nature, half by nurture). Babies who are more highly reactive (more sensitive) to stimulation are more likely to develop into introverts, while less reactive (less sensitive) babies generally become extroverts who actually draw on the energy around them. Introverts appear to be less responsive than extroverts to dopamine (a brain chemical linked to reward-driven learning), and have a more circumspect and cautious approach to risk than do extroverts. Introverts are more governed by the neocortex, the part of the brain responsible for thinking, planning, language and decision making.\n\nConcerning the workplace, \"Quiet\" critiques today's perceived overemphasis on collaboration: brainstorming leading to groupthink, and meetings leading to organizational inertia. Cain urges changes to the workplace to make it less focused on what she terms \"The New Groupthink\"—the idea that creativity and productivity emerge from a necessarily gregarious place—and more conducive to deep thought and solo reflection. According to Cain, research shows that charismatic leaders earn bigger paychecks but do not have better corporate performance; that brainstorming results in lower quality ideas and the more vocally assertive extroverts are the most likely to be heard; that the amount of space allotted to each employee has shrunk 60% since the 1970s; and that open office plans are associated with reduced concentration and productivity, impaired memory, higher turnover and increased illness. Cain says that the more creative people tend to be “socially poised introverts,\" solitude is a crucial and underrated ingredient for creativity, and office designs and work plans should allow people to be alone as well as to socialize.\n\nCain has noted that people of different temperament who become involved in personal relationships—possibly drawn to one another by a sense that each completes the other—can encounter misunderstanding and conflict. After a day's work an introvert may need to quietly recharge, while the extrovert may find the introvert's withdrawal hurtful; conversely, the extrovert may want to jointly socialize with others, which the introvert may find exhausting. Cain advises, first, a mutual understanding of where the other party is coming from; and second, balancing their respective needs for socializing and for solitude in a practical compromise in how the couple connects and how the couple jointly socializes with others.\n\nCain describes how introversion in children is not a defect but instead may involve a careful, sensitive temperament that may bring stronger academics, enhanced creativity and a unique brand of leadership and empathy. Cain says that introverts win a disproportionate number of Phi Beta Kappa keys and National Merit Scholarship finalist positions, cheat and break rules less, are more likely to be described by parents and caregivers as empathetic or conscientious, and are less likely to get into car accidents, participate in extreme sports and place large financial bets. Cain advises that students need more privacy and autonomy, and should be taught to work together but also how to work alone. Judith Warner, an author of parenting books, approved of Cain's advice that parents should view introverted children’s social style with understanding rather than fear.\n\nCain is not seeking introvert domination but a better balance and inclusion of different work styles, acknowledging that big ideas and great leadership can come from either personality type. Cain cites studies showing that introverts are better at leading proactive employees because they listen to and let them run with their ideas, while extroverts are better at leading passive employees because they have a knack for motivation and inspiration. Cain has emphasized that the key to maximizing talents is to put yourself into the zone of stimulation that’s right for you. \"The Harvard Independent's\" Faith Zhang closed her review of \"Quiet\" with the observation that Cain’s point is not that introverts are inherently superior or that we should all shroud ourselves in solitude, but that diversity provides balance and makes for a fuller, richer world.\n\nCain asserts that introverts today are where women were in the 1950s and early 1960s—a population discounted for something that went to the core of who they were, but a population on the verge of coming into its own. She adds that we’re at the cusp of a real sea change in the way we understand this personality type, Cain's own website urging readers to \"join the \"Quiet\" Revolution.\" Beyond urging consciousness-raising about the harmfulness of culture's bias against introversion, Cain urged companies to rethink hiring and promotion policies and office design, and encouraged educators to avoid constant group work and be trained in recognizing varieties of temperament to support quieter children to be functional and achieving for what they are rather than trying to \"turn them into extroverts.\" Cain further urged research into determining which situations are best suited to introverts and extroverts and how they can most effectively partner with each other.\n\nWithin three weeks of publication, \"InformationWeek's\" Debra Donston-Miller had noted that the introversion and extroversion were being widely discussed due in large part to \"Quiet,\" Cain's work being the focus of \"Time\" magazine's February 6, 2012 cover article. Cain presented talks at the TED2012 Conference and TED 2014 (All-Stars). In 2015 \"The New York Times\"' Laura Holson wrote that Cain had \"started, or at least was on the forefront of, a bona fide publishing trend\" concerning introverts, and in 2017 \"Harvard Magazine's\" Lydialyle Gibson noted retrospectively that in the aftermath of \"Quiet,\" \"introversion came suddenly into vogue.\" Also in 2015, Cain formally co-founded Quiet Revolution, a mission-based company based on the principles in \"Quiet.\"\n\nWithin one week of its publication, \"Forbes\"' Jenna Goudreau noted that the book was featured by several major media outlets and was shared extensively across the Web, Goudreau observing that \"readers said they felt validated and seen for the first time.\" By 2016, \"Quiet\" had been translated into over forty languages.\n\nElaine Aron, Ph.D., author of \"The Highly Sensitive Person\" (1996), responded to \"Quiet\" and its related \"Time\" cover story by stating that Cain was in fact describing highly sensitive persons (HSPs, defined in terms of sensory processing sensitivity) and not introverts (which Aron says is recently becoming defined more narrowly in terms of \"social\" interaction). Though Aron wrote that Cain and others blurred the lines between sensitivity and introversion, Aron called the \"Time\" article \"a huge, huge step\" for understanding HSPs, and that as more is learned, the 30% of HSPs who are social extroverts will be better understood.\n\nChanges caused by \"Quiet\" include universities examining admissions policies to favor introverts, schools setting up clubs for introverted and quiet children, and businesses and office design firms rethinking how space is used in workplaces to benefit both introverts and extroverts, with Steelcase adjusting office space designs and Herman Miller commissioning an art school to create office furniture to favor privacy and comfort rather than teamwork and sharing. The \"ABA Journal\" 's Leslie A. Gordon wrote in early 2016 that, \"thanks largely to interest generated by Cain’s book,\" law schools and law firms were using introversion preferences to influence hiring, placement, and training of attorneys.\n\nPsychologist Christopher Peterson wrote that even professional positive psychologists may be implicitly perpetuating \"The Extrovert Ideal,\" for example, by privileging activated feelings like happiness while undervaluing quiet feelings like contentment. Writing that both views of psychological wellness—both the noisy and extroverted view, and a quiet and introverted view—deserve scientific attention, Peterson closed by calling for a \"quiet positive psychology.\"\n\n\"GigaOM's\" Jessica Stillman extended the concepts of \"Quiet\" to analyze coworking (working independently but in the same environment as others), remote working (telecommuting), and other \"workshifting\" (non-traditional worksite) arrangements, noting that such arrangements pose both benefits and dangers for introverts. While coworkers can \"set their own level of contact,\" she also noted that \"the ability to work from anywhere might enable more withdrawal than is healthy among introverts.\" She also echoed the cautionary argument that \"too often ... we choose our work environment on autopilot.\"\n\nAs the November 2012 U.S. Presidential election approached, \"Quiet's\" concepts were applied to contrast former President Clinton with 2012 candidates Obama and Romney. Concerning leadership in general, Cain was quoted as adopting Peter Drucker's statement that effective leaders \"had little or no ‘charisma’ and little use either for the term or what it signifies.” Further, Cain was quoted as rejecting John Heilemann's assertion that introverts, in particular Barack Obama, “don’t like people,” Cain noting that both candidates Obama and Mitt Romney were introverts.\n\nCornell Law School's Sherry Colb extended to the jury system \"Quiet's\" assertion that a successful \"wisdom-of-crowds phenomenon\" typically emerges when individuals in a group share their respective contributions \"after\" being separately and independently conceived. Colb proposed a jury system in which, after all evidence has been presented, respective jurors would compose written analyses of the facts and issues, and express a verdict; the jurors' various documents would be distributed and read by all other jurors before in-person deliberation would begin.\n\nIn the wake of the December 14, 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School (Newtown) shooting, \"Quiet's\" author was cited for the concern that introverted people, or people who are quiet for other reasons, receive unfair suspicion or stigmatization because of violent acts committed by a few solitary individuals. \"Quiet's\" critiques of groupwork and brainstorming were cited in the writings of such sources as Harvard Business School's Professor Emeritus James Heskett and \"Fast Company's Co.Design\" senior editor Belinda Lanks. In the wake of Yahoo! Inc.'s February 2013 announcement of discontinuation of a telecommuting option for employees, \"Quiet\" was cited by NBC News' Isolde Raftery for its concern that creativity would be hindered, and by \"The Miami Herald's\" Leonard Pitts, Jr. against the belief that synergy always produces the best results, and against the one-size-fits-all mentality that says productivity and creativity are found only when colleagues meet at the water cooler.\n\n\"Quiet\" was chosen as the common reading choice for Case Western Reserve University's 2013-2014 \"First Year Experience\" program which helps new students transition to university life and develop connections, the chair of the university's common reading committee explaining that the book will encourage students to reflect on what kinds of learners and professionals they will be, and how they fit in socially and relate to others.\n\nThree years after \"Quiet's\" publication, David DiSalvo wrote in \"Forbes\" that a \"groundswell support for the book’s thesis\" resulted in \"a sort of cultish affinity for introversion,\" but cautioned that \"as with all movement-making arguments,\" they’ve \"fueled ... shallow conclusions\" that were not made in the book itself. DiSalvo cited studies indicating that introverts' elevated sensitivity to personality traits can manifest as bias against extroverts in performance appraisals and reward giving.\n\n\"The Wall Street Journal's\" Philip Delves Broughton reviewed \"Quiet\" as \"an earnest and enlightening 300-page inquiry into introversion and its uses,\" described examples of the research and investigations Cain undertook, and closed by stating \"Ms. Cain's rich, intelligent book will probably have broad appeal.\"\n\n\"The Harvard Independent's\" Faith Zhang remarked that \"though it draws on studies across a variety of fields, including psychology, sociology, and neurology, \"Quiet\" is not even a pop science book; it is part affirmation, part social commentary, part self-help primer, supported by but not primarily focused on science.\" Zhang found flaw in generalizations in \"Quiet's\" \"Soft Power\" chapter on East Asian culture, but found the book's most interesting chapter to be the one tracing the social history describing the shift from the “culture of character” to the “culture of personality.” Zhang concluded that \"\"Quiet\" has much to offer both introverts and the extroverts who would like to understand them.\" Jenny Lee subsequently wrote in the Asian American magazine \"Hyphen\" that Zhang's brief critique of \"Quiet's\" \"Soft Power\" chapter was the exception among reviews; Lee further asserted that despite its disclaimer about not encouraging ethno-cultural stereotypes, Cain's chapter overgeneralized about Asian and Asian American personality styles and reinforced the \"model minority myth.\"\n\nIn \"Scientific American,\" Gareth Cook described \"Quiet\" as \"part book, part manifesto.\"\n\nThe \"Chicago Tribune\" said that \"\"Quiet\" is not a scientific tract. But Cain ... draws from a wide array of academic research, enlivened with colorful anecdotes, to describe how American culture got to this point.\"\n\nWriting in \"The New York Times,\" Judith Warner gave \"Quiet\" a mixed review, to which Cain blogged a response the same day. Concerning \"Quiet's\" writing \"form,\" Warner commented that \"Quiet\" is \"a long and ploddingly earnest book,\" and contains \"go-go language\" and \"gratuitous sloganeering ... (that) offsets Cain’s serious research rather badly.\" Warner also stated that Cain \"combines on-the-scenes reporting with a wide range of social science research and a fair bit of 'quiet power' cheerleading.\" Cain's response replied to Warner's critique of the book's \"content:\" Warner asserted that \"Quiet's\" definition of introversion expanded to include \"all that is wise and good, (so) that (the definition) is largely meaningless except as yet another vehicle for promoting self-esteem\"; Cain replied that \"Warner badly misunderstands\" that the traits listed in \"Quiet's\" \"Author's Note\" were not descriptive of introversion \"but that culturally these traits have always been bound together under the 'contemplation' rubric, and need to be addressed as such.\" Warner hypothesized that, had Cain focused in \"other sorts of places\" than \"Harvard Business School, corporate boardrooms, executive suites,\" that Cain \"would undoubtedly have discovered a world of introverts quite contented with who they are\"; Cain replied that her research and feedback confirm introverts' \"difficult experiences\" even in fields that \"Warner imagines are safe havens for introverts,\" Cain adding that Warner's response to \"Quiet\" \"has an interesting precedent in the early years of feminism... (in which) a distinct minority felt proud and content as they were, and couldn’t see what all the fuss was about.\"\n\nPhilosopher and author Damon Young, writing in \"The Age,\" wrote that \"Cain is patient, meticulous and empathetic on the psychology. She outlines the problems clearly and gives workable solutions. She is less nimble with questions of history and society. For example, her use of a handful of quotes and aphorisms to demonstrate Eastern and Western outlooks on speech is clumsy. Her prose is plain but warm and she distils research well, with the use of anecdotes and literary examples.\"\n\n\"Bestseller list placement (hardcover nonfiction category unless otherwise noted):\" \"Quiet\" reached:\n\n\"Quiet\" was voted No. 1 non-fiction book of 2012 in the \"Goodreads Choice Awards.\"\n\nJohn Dupuis collated information from 69 \"Best of 2012\" book lists, and wrote for the \"National Geographic Society's ScienceBlogs\" that \"Quiet\" was the most listed science related book.\n\n\"Best of 2012 List\" inclusions, not limited to science book lists:\n\nBy 2015, two million copies of \"Quiet\" had been sold worldwide.\n\nIn 2018, \"The Guardian\" listed the book as among the ten \"best brainy books of the decade\".\n\n\n\n\"Further reading: (alphabetically)\"\n\n\"Links to video and audio media: (chronologically)\"\n\n\"Miscellaneous:\"\n"}
{"id": "50066385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50066385", "title": "Reproductive health care for incarcerated women in the United States", "text": "Reproductive health care for incarcerated women in the United States\n\nIn the United States, prisons are obligated to provide health care to prisoners. Such health care is sometimes called \"correctional medicine\". In women's prisons, correctional medicine includes attention to reproductive health.\n\nThe number of women incarcerated in the United States has increased greatly over the last few decades, and at a faster rate than the number of incarcerated men. Many of the same factors that increase women's likelihood of incarceration also put them at a higher risk for contracting HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted infections, and for having high-risk pregnancies. The majority of incarcerated women are economically disadvantaged and poorly educated, and have not had adequate access to preventive healthcare prior to their imprisonment, such as Pap tests, STI screening, and pregnancy counseling.\n\nEstelle v. Gamble obligates prisons to provide for the serious medical needs of their inmates. However, it also requires that an incarcerated person must demonstrate that they had a serious medical need, and that they didn't receive adequate medical care because officials showed \"deliberate indifference.\" Due to the difficulty inherent in proving that a prison official knew about a medical condition, yet failed to respond to it, this standard makes it difficult to hold correctional facilities accountable for their mistakes.\n\nTodaro v. Ward argued that women within a New York prison did not have adequate, constitutional access to healthcare. Since Todaro v. Ward was the first major court case that called into question incarcerated women's actual access to health care, it spurred organizations such as the American Medical Association, American Correctional Association, and the American Public Health Association to start creating standards for health care within prisons.\n\nWith this ruling, the court determined that the medical care provided to prisoners must only be \"reasonable,\" not necessarily \"perfect, the best obtainable, or even very good.\"\n\nCurrently, no national agency monitors the treatment of prisoners, although a few governmental and non-governmental agencies do provide monitoring standards that facilities may use if they wish to become accredited (about thirty percent of prisons are accredited), and some federal legislation has been passed regarding correctional health care.\n\nThis legislation required that incarcerated individuals pay for some of their health care bill while in prison.\n\nThe Prison Litigation Reform Act made it much more difficult for prisoners to file class action and individual lawsuits against a prison. The Prison Litigation Reform Act (PRLA) requires that prisoners exhaust a facility's own administrative resources and solutions before attempting to file a lawsuit. This can be detrimental because prisoners' health problems are often time-sensitive. PRLA also includes a cap on attorney fees, which has made fewer attorneys willing to represent prisoners. Although PRLA applies to all lawsuits filed by incarcerated people, it is particularly relevant for women's health because most lawsuits filed by incarcerated women concern substandard health care.\n\nAs of 2005, about five to ten percent of incarcerated women were pregnant (most upon intake), and about 2,000 incarcerated women give birth every year. Incarcerated women already tend to have more high-risk pregnancies, due to possible complications by drug and alcohol abuse and STIs, histories of victimization and abuse, and poor support networks, so they are particularly in need of quality prenatal care as compared to non-incarcerated women.\n\nStudies have found mixed results when it comes to the effects of incarceration on pregnancy outcomes. Some studies have found that incarceration correlates to lower birth weight, and an increased chance of complications in the pregnancy; others have found the opposite: that incarceration is associated with higher birth weight and a decreased likelihood of premature delivery. However, the latter finding may simply speak to the low level of medical care available to women in poverty in the free world.\n\nA 1996 study conducted by the National Council on Crime and Delinquency (NCCD) on women in California, Connecticut, and Florida state prisons found a lack of adequate prenatal and postnatal medical care, prenatal nutrition, level of methadone maintenance for opiate-dependent pregnant inmates, education regarding childbirth and parenting, and preparation for the mother's separation from her child. Often, inmates report receiving no regular pelvic exams or sonograms, and little to no information about proper prenatal care and nutrition. Prison diets often lack proper nutrition, particularly for the changing and special dietary needs of pregnant women, and many women prisoners report not being allowed to alter their diets during their pregnancy.\n\nDespite the lack or low quality of prenatal care in most institutions, many correctional facilities have made strides to provide adequate care. For example, Washington State has a program called the Birth Attendants Prison Doula project, which provides support to incarcerated pregnant and postpartum women. When asked about her prison's response to pregnancy, Boo, an inmate in an Arizona correctional facility, said:\n\nIn general, pregnant inmates are transported to outside medical facilities to give birth, because most correctional facilities are not medically equipped to provide such services. These transports often result in complications due to the risk of injury to both the mother and the child, and due to the additional stress.\n\nThe practice of shackling inmates, both in transit to the hospital and during labor, is also common at many facilities. Forty-one states permit the use of restraints during transport to the hospital, and twenty-three states and the federal government permit the use of restraints during labor. These restraints may include belly chains, shackles, handcuffs, or nylon \"soft restraints.\" The use of restraints on women so far into their pregnancy and during labor poses many health risks. Restraints inhibit the movement of a woman, something that aids the progression of the labor and alleviates some of her discomfort. They may also hinder the ability of health care professionals to respond quickly to emergencies during the labor. Organizations such as Amnesty International have pressured correctional facilities to stop the use of shackles on pregnant women, pointing out the fact that most pregnant women are incarcerated for nonviolent offenses and pose no risk (especially during childbirth), so the restraints are unnecessary. Maria Jones, a pregnant inmate, described her experience being shackled during labor:\n\nIncarcerated women are 15 times more likely to be infected with HIV than are women who are free, and are also more than twice as likely than incarcerated men to be infected with HIV. For example, in New York, a state which does blind testing, 14.6% of incarcerated women and 7.3% of incarcerated men tested positive for HIV. The 1996 NCCD study found that female African American and Hispanic/Latina inmates were significantly more likely than their White counterparts to report testing positive for HIV. Many of the same social factors that increase the likelihood of incarceration for women, such as poverty, race, gender, and a history of victimization, are also correlated to HIV infection.\n\nA 2000 study by the American Correctional Association found that mandatory HIV testing is conducted upon intake in 23 states, and that a few also provide 6-month follow-up testing. Most prisons test inmates who either ask to be tested, or display symptoms of HIV (this is the policy in 44 out of 51 jurisdictions), and fifteen states also specifically test inmates that are in high-risk groups. Three states, the District of Columbia, and the Federal Bureau of Prisons test inmates upon release. The same American Correctional Association study also found that most prisons provide HIV-positive individuals with medications while they are in the prison, may provide them with a small supply after they are released, and may also direct them towards community resources where they can receive more medication. Treatment of inmates who have tested positive for HIV varies greatly from state to state. For example, in New Jersey, female HIV positive prisoners were shackled to their beds for up to six months after being diagnosed. However, Ohio and New York, among other states, have infirmaries specifically adapted to attend to the needs of inmates with HIV/AIDS, and allow some inmates to reside in a hospital for treatment. In addition to this, New York State's Division of Health Services department does regular evaluations of the state prisons' services for AIDS patients, and also provides space for support groups to meet, and patients to be counseled on their illness.\n\nWomen's symptoms and treatment needs for HIV infection are quite different from those of men, but the treatment resources for incarcerated women are often limited. The treatment of HIV requires a specialist, and generally, prison doctors don't have adequate training to treat women effectively. Or, prisons often do not have adequate facilities, staff, or a follow-up treatment system. For example, the 1996 NCCD study also found that within the entire California women's prison system, one of the largest in the nation, there was only one full-time specialist able to provide \"gender-specific treatment\" to women with HIV. Male prisoners, however, did have access to gender-specific HIV treatment.\n\nFederal courts have established, according to constitutional law, that prisoners retain the right to have an abortion once they are incarcerated. However, state standards regarding abortion for incarcerated women are unclear - actions are often left up to the discretion of prison officials on a case-by-case basis.\n\nMost state abortion policies are written and approved without going through the administrative process which other policies are generally subject to; thus, they are frequently incomplete. In fact, fourteen state DOCs have no official written abortion policies, and others simply will not release or publish their policies. Alaska has a provision which bans abortion funding in its policy on general medical services, but no specific policy guidelines on abortion. Other states may not define the exact type of abortions they pay for. Most states require that women pay for all of the costs of an abortion procedure, including transportation to the clinic (which is often far due to prisons' rural locations, and the urban locations of most abortion clinics), security, and the actual surgery. Minnesota and Wisconsin are the only two states which explicitly mention in their policies that they pay for abortions if a woman has been raped. The policy of the Federal Bureau of Prisons since 1987 has been to pay for abortion only in the cases of rape or life endangerment (although they do pay for transportation to the clinic). Women's experiences and perceptions of their own access to abortion reflect these policies. In a nationwide survey of correctional health care and inmates' access to abortion, 68% of respondents said that women within their prison were allowed to have an abortion if they requested one. However, many respondents also stated that although their prison did allow access to abortion, women receive little to no help with arranging an appointment, paying for the procedure, and getting themselves to the clinic.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Department of Justice Bureau of Justice Statistics, cancer is one of the leading causes of death for women (both inside and outside prison), and one-quarter of deaths of incarcerated women due to cancer are from breast, cervical, ovarian, and uterine cancer. In particular, women in prison are at a high risk for contracting cervical cancer due to their high rates of substance abuse and diseases such as hepatitis C, HIV, and other STIs. However, reproductive health care reform in prisons generally focuses on pregnancy or HIV.\n\nIncarcerated women have higher rates of STIs and gynecologic infections than non-incarcerated women. In fact, one study estimated that about 9% of incarcerated women tested positive for gonococcus infection, and between 11 and 17% of incarcerated women are infected with chlamydia. However, not every infected woman will be diagnosed and given treatment, because many prisons only test women who request to be tested, or show symptoms.\n\nStates often have their own legislation regarding correctional health care, but it doesn't always completely take into consideration the complexities of women's reproductive health. For example, the New York State Department of Corrections and Community Supervision (DOCCS) has issued two main documents which outline their institutional health care policies: the Health Services Policy Manual, and the Women's Health Primary Care Practice Guideline (first published in 2000, and updated in 2008 and 2011). Within these documents, the Patient Bill of Rights includes the right of a patient to respectful care, the right to refuse treatment, and the right to complete information regarding a diagnosis; the Professional Code of Ethics outlines the standards that staff must follow, including having a respect for human dignity, and a professional relationship with the patient. The DOCCS does not monitor how well facilities actually adhere to these standards, and there are no consequences for those who do not. Also, many women are not informed of their patient's rights, so are unaware when standards have been breached.\n\nThe DOCCS has no written policies on pregnancy tests, pregnancy options counseling, abortion, ectopic pregnancy, miscarriage, stillbirth, nutrition for pregnant and nursing women, or hysterectomies, and has incomplete policies regarding menopause, vitamins, health care for pregnant women, women in labor, or women who have recently given birth. The DOCCS policies stray from community standards in the areas of the starting age for yearly GYN check-ups, the frequency of breast exams and Pap smears, follow-up for abnormal Pap smears, frequency of prenatal visits and ultrasounds, and the time frame for postpartum check-ups for women who have a Caesarean section.\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Prisons' policy is to provide each inmate with a complete medical exam (which includes gynecological and obstetrical history) within 30 days of admission. The BOP currently adheres to the standards for yearly exams put forth by the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology. According to a 1997 survey, approximately 90 percent of the inmates in women's state prisons reported having received a gynecologic exam from their institution upon intake. Additionally, an American Correctional Association study found that most women's correctional institutions provided OB/GYN services, prenatal and postpartum care, mammography, and Pap smears upon request. Fewer provided counseling for inmates regarding their reproductive health, many correctional facilities do not provide follow-up exams, and screenings often do not continue on the recommended schedule. In a New York city juvenile detention facility, the 5,000 youth who went through the system annually were all served by a single physician. Less than one-third of the inmates received a Pap smear test, and one in five were tested for gonorrhea, chlamydia, and syphilis.\n\nWomen often report long delays and wait times in signing up for appointments with a GYN doctor, and in getting treated. For example, more than half of respondents in a survey of incarcerated women in New York state prisons said that they were not able to see the GYN when necessary, and 47% of respondents stated that their problems became worse in the time that they had to wait. In one extreme case, Sara, a woman incarcerated in New York, had to wait seven months before she was finally diagnosed with an aggressive cancer. Another woman had to wait four months to receive a colposcopy, a follow-up to her Pap test. Another woman at the same prison wrote:\n\nIn a qualitative study on the experiences of incarcerated women with the Papanicolaou test (a test which screens for cervical cancer) in California state prisons, researchers found a lack of communication between medical providers within the prison, which tended to result in long delays or cancellations of treatment, no standardized process for scheduling a Pap test, and a lack of education and explanation regarding both the test itself, and how to fill out the medical forms associated with it.\n\nIn addition to this, women who aren't called in for a Pap test are sometimes required to pay a $5 fee if they request one. This can be a significant barrier to requesting a test, considering an average prisoner's wage is around 7 to 13 cents per hour.\n\nIn the same study, women brought attention to the discomfort suffered by inmates with personal histories of sexual abuse and victimization when they were forced to be examined by a male physician. Women interviewed in New York State prisons had similar complaints about their physicians' seeming lack of awareness of female prisoners' past traumas, and the lack of explanation of the procedures. One woman stated:\n\nAnother consideration in correctional reproductive health care is the relationship between the prisoner-patients and the physicians. Studies have shown that female inmates often report distrust of physicians and disappointment with their interactions with providers.\n\nResearchers have found that most of the women interviewed in the 2005 California state prison study had negative perceptions of their gynecologic tests and treatment. According to the women interviewed, the prison doctors who performed their tests were often unprofessional and disrespectful. One woman described her experience, saying: \"They expect us to give them respect, but they don't respect us. They treat us like we are animals just because we are incarcerated.\" The California prison system employs corrections officers who are also trained to be licensed nurses (called medical technical assistants). Similarly, in Chicago, the county jails train corrections officers as doulas and birth attendants. Inmates generally must request medical treatment through either these officers, or through other, non-medically trained correctional staff, and studies have shown that female patients' complaints and requests for medical assistance are often not taken as seriously as those of male patients. The simultaneous positions that these officers hold as both security personnel and medical caretakers or advocates may contribute to female inmates' distrust of them.\n\nA 1999 study found that female inmates were more likely than their male counterparts to think that their access to health care was inadequate and that their quality of care was low compared to the care male prisoners were given. Women in this study also visited the health care facility more often than their male counterparts and reported being healthy less often than men did.\n\nA lack of resources, specifically of adequate staff, within facilities is largely what contributes to the substandard care of inmates. For example, although California's prison system is the largest in the country, an obstetrician/gynecologist was not hired at the California Institution for Women (CIW) until pregnant prisoners in California filed a class action lawsuit (Harris v. McCarthy) against CIW. The Valley State Prison for Women (VSPW), another prison in California, had just two OB/GYN doctors on staff in 2000 (one of whom was indicted on four counts of sexual misconduct and eventually fired). Albion, a women's prison in New York State, has 1,000 prisoners, but only one GYN doctor, who works only 16 hours per week. Taconic, another facility in New York, which holds about 370 women, has no GYN doctor on site. In these cases, routine GYN care falls to the general nurse practitioner or Medical Director. In addition to the lack of staff, medical doctors are often not on duty on the weekends and during evening hours. This can be dangerous if medical emergencies arise during non-business hours. For example, a prisoner in CIW in 1997 went into labor over the weekend, when there was only one nurse on duty. The nurse strapped the woman into a gurney, but refused to help with her labor. When the baby was born not breathing, the nurse had to call paramedics, because she was unable to activate the breathing apparatus. By the time the newborn was transported to the hospital, he was declared brain dead.\n\nThe difficulty with recruiting qualified staff can be attributed to both the physical isolation of women's prisons (often placed in areas that are considered undesirable to live in, where there are few available medical professionals), and to the relative lack of medical resources and low salaries that prisons offer to medical staff. Dr. Valda Chijide, a former HIV doctor in an Alabama prison, for instance, resigned from her position due to inadequate support. In this case, the HIV unit was rat-infested, with broken windows covered in plastic.\n\nThere is also a trend towards privatizing health care by hiring outside, for-profit health care companies to provide medical care to inmates. According to a 1996 survey by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC), forty-four state Departments of Corrections contract out at least some of their medical care to private vendors - in 1996 this amounted to $706 million.\n\nThis can result in a lack of accountability, as proper monitoring makes a contract more expensive. Oversight is often lacking. In Alabama, the same official who previously held a high level position at Prison Health Services, one of the nation's largest private vendors, now works in a position within the Alabama Department of Corrections which requires her to oversee Prison Health's compliance to the contract. Prison Health Services, which has cared for 237,000 inmates, has had to pay millions of dollars in fines and settlements due to inadequate care. In another example, according to a former supervisory nurse of a jail operated by Correctional Medical Services (CMS), a large private contractor, the jail would often release pregnant women when they went into labor, and then arrest them again after they gave birth, in order to avoid having to pay for the inmates' medical expenses.\n\nLack of accountability also results due to varying state and federal laws on private contractors' liability for medical abuse and neglect. Private contractors can be challenged under the same federal civil rights law that applies to state and local governments, but these corporations cannot be sued for unconstitutional medical practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "47180654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47180654", "title": "Restaurant &amp; Bar Design Awards", "text": "Restaurant &amp; Bar Design Awards\n\nThe Restaurant & Bar Design Awards, is an annual award dedicated to recognising the design and architecture of food and beverage spaces internationally. The Restaurant & Bar Design Awards is an independent award system, set up by Marco Rebora in 2008 in the United Kingdom with the encouragement of a panel of judges, including the editor-in-chief of Wallpaper*, Tony Chambers.\n\nSince the first awards in 2009 there have been over 5,000 entries from design and architectural industries and hospitality organisations around the world.\n\nEach year the awards are judged by a new panel of representatives from the fields of art, architecture, design and gastronomy. Notable judges have included Ian Callum, Mark Hix, Gerry Judah, Yotam Ottolenghi, Thomas Heatherwick, Julia Peyton-Jones and Karim Rashid. The winners are awarded at annual ceremonies at a chosen host venue affiliated with the award. In 2012 the ceremony was held at The Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA).\n\nRestaurant & Bar Design Awards organises a year-round programme of events based in the UK and most recently Internationally with an aim to build a network between entrants, judges, partners and sponsors.\nIn 2014 Taschen publications published a book, \"Restaurant & Bar Design\" dedicated to the ongoing work of the Awards.\n\nEach year the Restaurant & Bar Design Awards acknowledges two overall winners under the categories of Best Bar and Best Restaurant.\n\nThe number of additional category winners varies each year. The inaugural award in 2008/2009 was open to entrants from UK and identified nine category winners. In 2009/10 the awards became International and introduced two more category winners under the titles International Restaurant and International Bar. The awards also have a number of sub-categories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40942921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40942921", "title": "Shelford Group", "text": "Shelford Group\n\nThe Shelford Group represents ten of the leading NHS multi-specialty academic healthcare centres in England. Founded in 2011, the Group seeks to share best practice and constructively engage with government, Parliament and industry.\n\nThe current Chair is Nick Moberly, Chief Executive of King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust.\n\nThe member organisations are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25429544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25429544", "title": "Sleep onset", "text": "Sleep onset\n\nSleep onset is the transition from wakefulness into sleep. Sleep onset usually transmits into non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREM sleep) but under certain circumstances (e.g. narcolepsy) it is possible to transit from wakefulness directly into rapid eye movement sleep (REM sleep).\n\nDuring the 1920s an obscure disorder that caused encephalitis and attacked the part of the brain that regulates sleep influenced Europe and North America. Although the virus that caused this disorder was never identified, the psychiatrist and neurologist Constantin von Economo decided to study this disease and identified a key component in the sleep-wake regulation. He identified the pathways that regulated wakefulness and sleep onset by studying the parts of the brain that were affected by the disease and the consequences it had on the circadian rhythm. He stated that the pathways that regulated sleep onset are located between the brain stem and the basal forebrain. His discoveries were not appreciated until the last two decades of the 20th century when the pathways of sleep onset were found to reside in the exact place that Constantin von Economo stated.\n\nSleep electrophysiological measurements can be made by attaching electrodes to the scalp to measure the electroencephalogram (EEG) and to the chin to monitor muscle activity, recorded as the electromyogram (EMG). Electrodes attached around the eyes monitor eye movements, recorded as the electro-oculogram (EOG).\n\nVon Economo, in his studies, noticed that lesions in the connection between the midbrain and the diencephalon caused prolonged sleepiness and therefore proposed the idea of an ascending arousal system. During the past few decades major ascending pathways have been discovered with located neurons and respective neurotransmitters. This pathway divides into two branches: one that ascends to the thalamus and activates the thalamus relay neurons, and another one that activates neurons in the lateral part of the hypothalamus and the basal forebrain, and throughout the cerebral cortex. The cell group involved in the first pathway is an acetylcholine-producing cell group called pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus(PPT/LDT). These neurons play a crucial role in bridging information in between the thalamus and the cerebral cortex. These neurons have high activation during wakefulness and during REM sleep and a low activation during NREM sleep. The second branch originates from monoaminorgenic neurons. These neurons are located in the locus coeruleus, dorsal and median raphe nuclei, ventral periaqueductal grey matter, and tuberomammillary nucleus. Each group produces a different neurotransmitter. The neurons in the locus coeruleus produce noradrenaline, as fore the neurons in the dorsal and median raphe nuclei, ventral periaqueductal grey matter, and tuberomammillary nucleus produce serotonin, dopamine and histamine respectively. They then project onto the hypothalamic peptidergic neurons, which contain melanin-concentrated hormones or orexin, and basal forebrain neurons which contain GABA and acetylcholine. These neurons then project onto the cerebral cortex. It has also been discovered that lesions to this part of the brain cause prolonged sleep or may produce coma.\n\nThe sleep cycle is normally defined in stages. When an individual first begins to sleep, stage 1 is entered, marked by the presence of some theta activity, which indicates that the firing of neurons in the neocortex is becoming more synchronized, as well as alpha wave activity (smooth electrical activity of 8–12 Hz recorded from the brain, generally associated with a state of relaxation). This stage is a transition between sleep and wakefulness. An individual's eyelids will from time to time slowly open and close and their eyes will roll upward and downward. Before one reaches sound sleep, stage 2 is entered. The EEG during this phase is normally irregular, but contains periods of theta activity, sleep spindles, and K complexes. Sleep spindles are short bursts of waves of 12–14 Hz that occur between two and five times a minute during states 1-4 of sleep. They appear to play a role in memory consolidation, and increased number of sleep spindles are correlated with increased scores on tests of intelligence. K complexes are sudden, sharp waveforms, which, unlike sleep spindles, are usually found only during stage 2 of sleep. They spontaneously occur at the rate of approximately one per minute, but often can be triggered by unexpected noises. It has been found that K complexes consist of isolated periods of inhibition. They appear to be the precursor of delta waves, also known as slow wave sleep, which appear during the deepest levels of sleep. Both these stages are classified as non-REM sleep.\n\nSleep onset is finally induced by sleep-promoting neurons, located in the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus (VLPO). The sleep-promoting neurons are believed to project GABA type A and galanin, two known inhibitory neurotransmitters, to arousal-promoting neurons, such as histaminergic, serotonergic, orexinergic, noradrenergic, and cholinergic neurons (neurons mentioned above). Levels of acetylcholine, norepinepherine, serotonin, and histamine decrease with the onset of sleep, for they are all wakefulness promoting neurotransmitters. Therefore, it is believed that the activation of sleep-promoting neurons causes the inhibition of arousal-promoting neurons, which leads to sleep. Evidence has shown that during the sleep-wake cycle, sleep-promoting neurons and the arousal-promoting neurons have reciprocal discharges, and that during NREM sleep, GABA receptors increase in the arousal-promoting neurons. This had led some to believe that the increase of GABA receptors in the arousal-promoting neurons is another pathway of inducing sleep.\n\nSpecifically, Adenosine is known as the sleep promoting nucleoside neuromodulator. Astrocytes maintain a small stock of nutrients in the form of glycogen. In times of increased brain activity, such as during daytime, this glycogen is converted into fuel for neurons; thus, prolonged wakefulness causes a decrease in the level of glycogen in the brain. A fall in the level of glycogen causes an increase in the level of extracellular adenosine, which has an inhibitory effect in neural activity. This accumulation of adenosine serves as a sleep-promoting substance. Additionally, the production of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine increases in the hippocampus as sleep continues, and also increases in the cortex until REM sleep is reached.\n\nThe majority of sleep neurons are located in the ventrolateral preoptic area (vlPOA). These sleep neurons are silent until an individual shows a transition from waking to sleep. The sleep neurons in the preoptic area receive inhibitory inputs from some of the same regions they inhibit, including the tubermammillary nucleus, raphe nuclei, and locus coeruleus. Thus, they are inhibited by histamine, serotonin, and norepinepherine. This mutual inhibition may provide the basis for establishing periods of sleep and waking. A reciprocal inhibition also characterizes an electronic circuit known as the flip-flop. A flip-flop can assume one of two states, usually referred to as on or off. Thus, either the sleep neurons are active and inhibit the wakefulness neurons, or the wakefulness neurons are active and inhibit the sleep neurons, Because these regions are mutually inhibitory, it is impossible for neurons in both sets of regions to be active at the same time. This flip-flop, switching from one state to another quickly, can be unstable.\n\n"}
{"id": "5751927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5751927", "title": "Sue Fear", "text": "Sue Fear\n\nSusan Erica Fear (18 March 1963 – 28 May 2006) was an Australian mountain climber, supporter of the Fred Hollows Foundation and a 2005 recipient of the Order of Australia medal in the Queen's birthday honours. Her life and climbing career is illustrated in her biography \"Fear No Boundary: The Road to Everest and Beyond\", written by fellow climber Lincoln Hall and Fear, published in 2005.\n\nFear was born on 18 March 1963 in St Ives, New South Wales, Australia, she was the middle child in her family, with two brothers Grahame and John. Her parents were Ron and Joan Fear. Her mother Joan died from breast cancer in May 1988, and her father Ron died unexpectedly of a heart attack in June 2002.\n\nFear attended St Ives North Public School in her primary school years where she was the School Captain, and later attended Abbotsleigh (7–10) where she was the softball captain, and Barker College (11–12) in Sydney's north where she was a prefect and the captain of both hockey and cricket. While at school she attained the Duke of Edinburgh's Gold Award.\n\nAfter leaving school, Fear took an office job with Wilderness Expeditions, an adventure travel company founded by Tim Macartney-Snape. That company was later acquired by World Expeditions, and she moved out of the office and into the field. She became an adventure guide and led cross country ski trips in Australia as well as treks in Africa, South America and Asia. She was recognized as one of the company's senior guides, leading many physically challenging mountaineering expeditions.\n\nBetween 1997 and 2006 Fear climbed five of the world's fourteen 8,000 metre peaks. Her climbing career took off in 1997 when she led the first successful ascent by an Australian team of Makalu II (7,680 m) in Nepal. She followed this with ascents of Cho Oyu (8,201 m) in 1998 and Shishapangma (8,046 m) in 2002. In 2003, Fear climbed Everest (8,848 m) from the more difficult Tibetan side on the North Col. She was the first Australian-born woman and the second Australian woman overall to do so. She then successfully summitted Gasherbrum II (8,035 m) in Pakistan the following year (2004). Her final climb was to Manaslu (8,156 m) in 2006, which she successfully summited.\n\nFear was awarded the Order of Australia Medal (OAM) in 2005 for her work as Ambassador for The Fred Hollows Foundation and for services to mountaineering, which will have an eye clinic named after her in Dhading Besi, Nepal. Fear was also named the 2003 Adventurer of the Year by the Australian Geographic Society. She was an ambassador for the Australian Himalayan Foundation, and also helped raise funds for Australian Nepalese Medical Group.\n\nFears' life and climbing career is written about in the biographical book \"Fear No Boundary: The Road to Everest and Beyond\", written by fellow climber Lincoln Hall (with Sue Fear), and first published in Melbourne by Lothian Books in 2005.\n\nFear died on Sunday, 28 May 2006, when she fell into a crevasse (approx. 7,800 m) while descending from the summit of Manaslu in Nepal. Manaslu was her fifth climb of a mountain over 8,000 metres. Her body remains on the mountain, honouring an earlier request if she were to die whilst climbing a mountain. A plaque now lies in memory of her just above the town of Bandipur on a small hill facing Manaslu.\n\n"}
{"id": "11973706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11973706", "title": "Turning Point Alcohol and Drug Centre", "text": "Turning Point Alcohol and Drug Centre\n\nTurning Point Alcohol and Drug Centre is an alcohol and other drugs organisation located in the inner Melbourne(Australia) suburb of Richmond. Established in 1994 in Fitzroy, the organisation provides clinical treatment and support to those with substance addiction issues, as well as conducting clinical and epidemiological research and development. In addition, the organisation provides education and training to health and welfare professionals.\n\nThe organisation's approach to alcohol and other drugs clinical treatment is primarily based upon the medical model of treatment. This includes using an evidence based approach to treatment services and implementing harm minimisation techniques towards relevant client issues.\n\nThe organisation amalgamated with public health provider Eastern Health in October 2009, and is formally affiliated with Monash University. In addition, Turning Point collaborates with international organisations including The United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime (UNODC); \"International Network of Drug Treatment and Rehabilitation Resource Centres\", California State University; \"Center for Behavioral Research and Services\", Yale University; \"Center for Interdisciplinary Research on AIDS\" and The International Harm Reduction Association.\n\nTurning Point provides counselling, case management and primary care services from a wide range of health professionals and practitioners, including; Alcohol and Other Drug Clinicians (more commonly known as \"Case Managers\"), Forensic Alcohol and Other Drug Clinicians (\"Forensic Case Managers\") General Practitioners, Psychiatrists, Psychologists (both \"Clinical\" and \"Counselling\"), Pharmacists and Nurses.\n\nTreatment and support can be provided in the following forms:\n\n\nTurning Point provides eligible clients access to medically supervised drug substitution pharmacotherapies such as Methadone (see Methadone Maintenance), Suboxone and Subutex.\n\nTurning Point provides services in the following areas:\n\n\nTurning Point provides a comprehensive program to the local general public, including the supply and exchange of hypodermic needles as well as various other harm minimisation provisions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9880325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9880325", "title": "Wawrzyniec Żuławski", "text": "Wawrzyniec Żuławski\n\nWawrzyniec Jerzy Żuławski (14 February 1916 in Zakopane – 18 August 1957 in the Alps), also known as \"Wawa\", was a Polish alpinist, educator, composer, music critic, and musicologist. He was a professor of Państwowa Wyższa Szkoła Muzyczna in Warsaw. Żuławski was an initiator and organiser of Polish alpinism. During World War II he was a member of Armia Krajowa and was a soldier during the Warsaw Uprising.\n\nŻuławski published music reviews in \"Ruch Muzyczny\", \"Express Wieczorny\", \"Nowa Kultura\". He also composed orchestral, chamber, piano and vocal pieces.\n\nHe was one of the leading Polish alpinists. He died on Mont Blanc during a rescue action in 1957.\n\n\nŻuławski was an author of several mountain-related books:\n"}
{"id": "22495913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22495913", "title": "WhiteLies.tv", "text": "WhiteLies.tv\n\nWhitelies.tv was the adult brand for the anti-tobacco education campaign for the state of Indiana and was launched in 2001, by the Indiana Tobacco Prevention and Cessation (ITPC). The state agency is charged (by the 2000 Indiana General Assembly) with using Master Settlement Agreement funds for the purpose of decreasing the high rate of tobacco use in Indiana. Whitelies.tv brand is no longer being used for Indiana's anti-tobacco marketing program.\n\nThe Indiana Tobacco Use Prevention and Cessation Executive Board was created to oversee funding from Indiana’s share of the 1998 Master Settlement Agreement. The Board created a plan for the funds, which was set to include media components, special youth features, settlement enforcement, cessation initiatives and community programs. On July 1, 2011 Indiana Tobacco Prevention and Cessation became part of the State Health Department. Tobacco reduction and protection from secondhand smoke exposure will now be further integrated into many existing State health promotion programs, such as cancer prevention, oral health, asthma care, maternal/prenatal health, cardiovascular health, and minority, women’s, and children’s health. The Tobacco Prevention and Cessation Commission will continue to serve Hoosiers in the fight against tobacco use and secondhand smoke exposure.\n\nThe WhiteLies.tv brand was the first brand created for media outreach. WhiteLies.tv grew out of the need to educate and expose the tobacco industry's lies about the dangers of their products. In March 2002, advertising for the brand focused on the tobacco industry’s greed and the harmful effects of tobacco use on Hoosiers. The campaign was designed to educate consumers on the tobacco industry’s documented manipulative marketing tactics and the negative health consequences of tobacco use on Indiana.\n\nThe Whitelies.tv media campaign was present throughout Indiana and included television, radio, outdoor billboards, and newspaper ads and public relations. Today, the Quit Now Indiana brand is being promoted throughout state. Efforts are continuing to support the tobacco-free message. Examples of the current advertising can be found on the QuitNowIndiana.com website. There are currently over 65 community partners across Indiana trained to extend and maximize the state’s campaign budget.\n\nQuit 2 Win is a statewide promotional contest designed to encourage Hoosiers using tobacco products to make an attempt to quit. This promotion is part of the larger statewide WhiteLies.tv cessation campaign. In 2008, Zachary Joley of Ft. Wayne, Indiana was awarded the grand prize of $2,500 for quitting tobacco use. The contest awarded another $2,500 winner in 2009 to a 20-year-old mother who had been smoking since she was 9.\n\n1-800-Quit-Now is the Indiana Tobacco Quitline and it is a free phone-based counseling service affiliated with WhiteLies.tv. 1-800-Quit-Now and WhiteLies.tv can be found on many of the same advertisements. The services include:\n\n"}
{"id": "7365000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7365000", "title": "Women's Health Action and Mobilization", "text": "Women's Health Action and Mobilization\n\nWomen's Health Action and Mobilization (WHAM!) was an American activist organization based in New York City, established in 1989 in response to the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in Webster vs. Reproductive Health Services that states may bar the use of public money and public facilities for abortions. \n\nWHAM! used direct action tactics such as draping the Statue of Liberty with a protest banner and disrupting the confirmation hearings of Supreme Court Justice David Souter.\n\nIn 1989 members of WHAM! and ACT UP took part in a controversial action at Saint Patrick's Cathedral to protest the church’s position on homosexuality, safe-sex education and the use of condoms. WHAM! helped to form two additional activist groups, the New York Clinic Defense Task Force and the Church Ladies for Choice.\n\nAs of 2007 there were approximately 40 boxes of WHAM! materials, categorized but not indexed, at the Tamiment Library, which is a sub-library at the Bobst Library of New York University. In addition, interviews of past WHAM! participants were conducted in 2005 by Tamar W. Carroll, a doctoral candidate in History at the University of Michigan, for a dissertation concerning WHAM!, ACT UP, The National Congress of Neighborhood Women, and Mobilization For Youth. The resulting dissertation was titled \"Grassroots Feminism: Direct Action Organizing and Coalition Building in New York City, 1955-1995\". As part of her oral history research a forum on WHAM! was held at the Tamiment Library on October 15, 2005, with panel members, and most of the audience, consisting of former WHAM! activists. The forum was videotaped, and a recording of the forum is in the WHAM! collection at Tamiment, along with materials from the interviews conducted by Ms. Carroll.\n\n"}
{"id": "1377825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1377825", "title": "Zheng Ji (biochemist)", "text": "Zheng Ji (biochemist)\n\nZheng Ji () (6 May 1900 – 29 July 2010) was a nutritionist and a pioneering biochemist from Nanxi, Sichuan province, China. He was reputed to be the world's oldest professor and the founder of modern nutrition science in China. He lived to the age of 110.\n\nIn 1924 Zheng Ji passed the entrance exam for the Southeast National University (originally known as the Nanjing Advanced Normal School, moving in 1928 to the National Central University, and then to the Nanjing University) biology department in 1929. In 1930 he went to America to study, majoring in biochemistry at Ohio State. He also attended Yale and Indiana University, and in 1936 he obtained his PhD.\n\nUpon returning to China he successively served as a research fellow at the Scientific Research Institute of China; as a professor at the Central Medical School; as both a biochemistry professor and department head, simultaneously, at the Eastern China Military Medical School; as a professor at the Number 4 Military Medical College; and as both a biology professor and the head of the biochemistry teaching and research department at the Nanjing Medical School.\n\nIn 1945, at the Central Medical School, he established a biochemistry research institute to train graduate students. This was the first formal organization in China to teach biochemistry to graduate students, training a large number of students who went on to work in a variety of fields. After turning 70 he began to study the biochemistry of old age, proposing a theory of metabolic imbalance, forming the basis of geriatric biochemistry in China.\n\nHe participated in the establishment of the Chinese Nutrition Society and, later on, the Biochemistry Society. He was a past chairman of the Central University Professors Association and the first council chair of the Chinese Nutrition Society.\n\nZheng Ji turned 110 in May 2010 and at the time was claimed to be the oldest professor living in the world. He spent the greater part of his life teaching at the medical school and biology department of Nanjing University.\n\nIn recent years prior to his death he sold off family property, such as his family home, using the proceeds to make donations both to the university and to society at large, and to set up both a scholarship for needy students and a scientific endowment.\n\nZheng Ji died on 29 July 2010.\n\n"}
