{"id": "25575182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25575182", "title": "2010 in music", "text": "2010 in music\n\nThis topic covers notable events and articles related to 2010 in music.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3467768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3467768", "title": "Agricultural spiritualism", "text": "Agricultural spiritualism\n\nAgricultural spiritualism or the Spirit of Agriculture refers to the idea that the concepts of food production and consumption and the essential spiritual nature of humanity are linked. It assumes that spirituality is inherent to human consciousness, is perhaps a product of it, and is accessible to all who cultivate it. The association with agriculture includes such agricultural metaphors as \"cultivate\" in language used by most mystics across history.\n\nFollowers of this idea state the following reasons to justify this link:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13404967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13404967", "title": "Bashkeer Aligmani", "text": "Bashkeer Aligmani\n\nBashkeer Alighmani literally means German Towel or more precisely German Hand Towel. It is usually a cotton cloth measuring about 30 cm by 90 cm with black background and very colorful flowery design. It is worn as a head cover for women of some towns in Hauran, specifically Ar Ramtha in North Jordan. \nIt is thought to have been brought back from Germany in the 1970s when many Ramthan used to import used Mercedes-Benz cars from Germany.\n"}
{"id": "46994286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46994286", "title": "Beyond Boundaries: Religion, Region, Language and the State", "text": "Beyond Boundaries: Religion, Region, Language and the State\n\nBeyond Boundaries: Religion, Region, Language and the State is a project funded by the European Research Council with research carried out at the British Museum, the British Library, SOAS, University of London, and Leiden University. The leading researchers are Dr. Michael Willis, Dr. Sam van Schaik, Dr. Nathan W. Hill and Dr. Peter Bisschop. The project was one of thirteen synergy grants awarded in 2013 and the only synergy grant in the humanities for that year. The project will run from 2014 to 2020.\n\nThe project is focussing on the history and culture of early medieval India, specifically the period of the Gupta dynasty (\"circa\" 320-510 CE). Although characterised as a ‘golden age’ in modern scholarship — and marked by developments that shaped South Asia for more than a thousand years — research on this pivotal moment is fragmented and compartmentalised. The purpose of the project is to move beyond these limitations and to recover a more compelling picture of this influential period and its impact on India and her neighbours. The project achieves this aim through the development of online research tools, a series of workshops, and publications.\n\nThe project is interdisciplinary in design and aims to: \n\nConcerns about prevailing 'silos of knowledge' emerged primarily in management studies in the 1990s. This analysis has had little impact beyond the commercial sector, however, especially in cultural and historical research where modern nation states, regional languages, and established disciplinary protocols have reinforced the status quo. In moving beyond these constraints, three research themes have been developed to cross the disciplines and regions covered by the project. The project design involves making all core data and analysis freely available online.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9400744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9400744", "title": "Bhadralok", "text": "Bhadralok\n\nBhadralok ( , literally 'gentleman', 'well-mannered person') is Bengali for the new classof 'gentlefolk' who arose during British colonial times (approximately 1757 to 1947) in Bengal.\n\nMost, though not all, members of the bhadralok class are upper caste, mainly Baidyas, Brahmins, Kayasthas, and later Mahishyas. There is no precise translation of \"bhadralok\" in English, since it attributes economic and class privilege on to caste ascendancy. Many bhadraloks in the nineteenth century came from the privileged Brahmin or Priest caste or middle level merchant class (such as Rani Rashmoni). Anybody who could show considerable amount of wealth and standing in society was a member of the bhadralok community. \nThe bhadralok community includes all gentlefolk belonging to the rich as well as middle class segments of the Bengali society. Amongst the upper middle classes, a zamindar, or landowner, normally bearing the title Chaudhuri or Roy Chaudhuri at the end of the name, and Babu at the beginning would be considered to be a bhadralok. A zamindar bearing the title Raja or Maharaja would be considered to be higher than middle class, but would still be a bhadralok 'gentleman'. All members of the professional classes, i.e. those belonging to the newly emerging professions, such as doctors, lawyers, engineers, university professors, and higher civil servants, were members of the bhadralok community. However, an individual bearing the title \"Esquire\" at the end of the name, denoting a rank just below a Knight, was also considered to be higher than a bhadralok. \n\nThe two biggest factors that led to the rise of the bhadralok were the huge fortunes many merchant houses made from aiding the English East India Company's trade up the Ganga valley, and Western-style education (at the hands of the colonial rulers and of missionaries). The steep rise in real estate prices in Calcutta also led some petty landlords in the area to become wealthy overnight. The first identifiable bhadralok figure is undoubtedly Ram Mohan Roy, who bridged the gap between the Persianised nobility of the Sultanate era in Bengal and the new, Western-educated, nouveau riche comprador class. \n\nThe Bengal Renaissance was largely carried out and participated in by bhadralok. In addition, the rise of the Brahmo Samaj and various other samajes (a category halfway between 'society' and 'community') was also largely a bhadralok phenomenon. To be a bhadralok was to embrace some Western and Northern European values (though not always the same ones in each case), to have a modicum of education, and a sense of entitlement to (and consequently grievance against) favours or employment from the colonial government. While the bhadralok were influenced by the West (in terms of their morals, dress, and eating habits) they were also the people who reacted most strongly against the West, and the most scathing critiques as well as the most spirited defences of Westernisation were made by bhadralok writers. \nThe term Babu means an individual of rank and dignity. It is most commonly used to refer to gentleman, but is meant for anybody who enjoys a position of dominance in his immediate social circle. An Indian zamindar as well as an Indian member of the higher government services was referred to as a Babu. Amongst the landlords a Babu in the former Bengal Presidency, especially in Bengal and Behar, was normally a substantial and extremely wealthy zamindar in the same rank as a Thakur or a Mirza, and would rank just below a Raja. The term Babu has been historically used to refer to the upper echelons of the Indian society, including the ruling classes. \nIn the colonial period the term was derogatorily used to refer to members of the indigenous community, especially in law courts and revenue establishments in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, where most members were appointed as Munsifs from respectable and/or zamindari families. \n\n"}
{"id": "27481187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27481187", "title": "Born Talking: A Personal Inquiry into Language", "text": "Born Talking: A Personal Inquiry into Language\n\nBorn Talking: A Personal Inquiry into Language is a 1990 BBC television documentary series written and presented by Jonathan Miller that attempts to shed light on the complexities of language.\n\nThe series consists of four episodes 47 minutes each:\n\n"}
{"id": "1105101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1105101", "title": "Carnivalesque", "text": "Carnivalesque\n\nCarnivalesque is a literary mode characterized by a mocking or satirical challenge to authority and the traditional social hierarchy. It originated as \"carnival\" in Mikhail Bakhtin's \"Problems of Dostoevsky's Poetics\" and was further developed in \"Rabelais and His World\". Bakhtin traces the origins of the carnivalesque to the concept of carnival, itself related to the Feast of Fools. This was a medieval festival held originally by the sub-deacons of the cathedral, at about the time of the Feast of the Circumcision (1 January). The humbler cathedral officials performed burlesques of the sacred ceremonies, releasing \"the natural lout beneath the cassock.\" \n\nBakhtin derives carnival and its influence in literature from the reign of the “Serio-comical,” with the examples of Socratic dialogue and Menippean satire.\n\nThe Feast of Fools had its chief vogue in the French cathedrals, but it was also recorded a few times in England, notably in Lincoln Cathedral and Beverley Minster. In the early 20th century, Bakhtin argues in \"Rabelais and His World\" that we should not compare modern Mardi Gras with his Medieval Carnival. He argues that the latter was a powerful creative event, whereas the former is only a spectacle. Bakhtin suggests that the separation of participants and spectators has been detrimental to the potency of Carnival.\n\nIn his \"Problems of Dostoevsky’s Poetics\" (1929) and \"Rabelais and His World\" (1965), Bakhtin likens the \"carnivalesque\" in literature to the character of activity typical of the carnivals of popular culture. In the carnival, social hierarchies of everyday life—their solemnities, pieties and etiquettes, as well as all ready-made truths—are profaned and overturned by normally suppressed voices and energies. Thus, fools become wise, kings become beggars; opposites are mingled (fact and fantasy, heaven and hell). He did not believe that liberation from all authority and sacred symbols was desirable as an ideology. Because Carnival extracts all individuals from non-carnival life, and because there are no hierarchical positions during carnival, ideologies which manifest the mind of individuals cannot exist.\n\nMikhail Bakhtin's four categories of the carnivalesque sense of the world: \n\nThrough carnival and carnivalesque literature, a \"world upside-down\" is created, ideas and truths are endlessly tested and contested, and all demand equal dialogic status. The “jolly relativity” of all things is proclaimed by alternative voices within the carnivalized literary text that de-privileged the authoritative voice of the hegemony through their mingling of “high culture” with the profane. For Bakhtin it is within literary forms like the novel that one finds the site of resistance to authority and the place where cultural, and potentially political, change can take place.\n\nFor Bakhtin, carnivalization has a long and rich historical foundation in the genre of the ancient Menippean satire. In Menippean satire, the three planes of Heaven (Olympus), the Underworld (Hades), and Earth are all treated with the logic and activity of Carnival. For example, in the underworld, earthly inequalities are dissolved; emperors lose their crowns and meet on equal terms with beggars. This intentional ambiguity allows for the seeds of the “polyphonic” novel, in which narratologic and character voices are set free to speak subversively or shockingly, but without the writer of the text stepping between character and reader.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "644223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=644223", "title": "Computer-assisted translation", "text": "Computer-assisted translation\n\nComputer-assisted translation,computer-aided translation or CAT is a form of language translation in which a human translator uses computer hardware to support and facilitate the translation process.\n\nComputer-assisted translation is sometimes called machine-assisted, or machine-aided, translation (not to be confused with machine translation).\n\nThe automatic machine translation systems available today are not able to produce high-quality translations unaided: their output must be edited by a human to correct errors and improve the quality of translation. Computer-assisted translation (CAT) incorporates that manual editing stage into the software, making translation an interactive process between human and computer.\n\nSome advanced computer-assisted translation solutions include controlled machine translation (MT). Higher priced MT modules generally provide a more complex set of tools available to the translator, which may include terminology management features and various other linguistic tools and utilities. Carefully customized user dictionaries based on correct terminology significantly improve the accuracy of MT, and as a result, aim at increasing the efficiency of the entire translation process.\n\nComputer-assisted translation is a broad and imprecise term covering a range of tools, from the fairly simple to the complicated. These can include:\n\nTranslation memory programs store previously translated source texts and their equivalent target texts in a database and retrieve related segments during the translation of new texts.\n\nSuch programs split the source text into manageable units known as \"segments\". A source-text sentence or sentence-like unit (headings, titles or elements in a list) may be considered a segment. Texts may also be segmented into larger units such as paragraphs or small ones, such as clauses. As the translator works through a document, the software displays each source segment in turn, and provides a previous translation for re-use if it finds a matching source segment in its database. If it does not, the program allows the translator to enter a translation for the new segment. After the translation for a segment is completed, the program stores the new translation and moves on to the next segment. In the dominant paradigm, the translation memory is, in principle, a simple database of fields containing the source language segment, the translation of the segment, and other information such as segment creation date, last access, translator name, and so on. Another translation memory approach does not involve the creation of a database, relying on aligned reference documents instead.\n\nSome translation memory programs function as standalone environments, while others function as an add-on or macro for commercially available word-processing or other business software programs. Add-on programs allow source documents from other formats, such as desktop publishing files, spreadsheets, or HTML code, to be handled using the TM program.\n\nTranslation memory technology is particularly useful to organizations translating text that contains specialized vocabulary related to a particular industry, such as automotive manufacturing.\n\nNew to the translation industry, Language search-engine software is typically an Internet-based system that works similarly to Internet search engines. Rather than searching the Internet, however, a language search engine searches a large repository of Translation Memories to find previously translated sentence fragments, phrases, whole sentences, even complete paragraphs that match source document segments.\n\nLanguage search engines are designed to leverage modern search technology to conduct searches based on the source words in context to ensure that the search results match the meaning of the source segments. Like traditional TM tools, the value of a language search engine rests heavily on the Translation Memory repository it searches against.\n\nTerminology management software provides the translator a means of automatically searching a given terminology database for terms appearing in a document, either by automatically displaying terms in the translation memory software interface window or through the use of hot keys to view the entry in the terminology database. Some programs have other hotkey combinations allowing the translator to add new terminology pairs to the terminology database on the fly during translation. Some of the more advanced systems enable translators to check, either interactively or in batch mode, if the correct source/target term combination has been used within and across the translation memory segments in a given project. Independent terminology management systems also exist that can provide workflow functionality, visual taxonomy, work as a type of term checker (similar to spell checker, terms that have not been used correctly are flagged) and can support other types of multilingual term facet classifications such as pictures, videos, or sound.\n\nAlignment programs take completed translations, divide both source and target texts into segments, and attempt to determine which segments belong together in order to build a translation memory or other reference resource with the content. Many alignment programs allow translators to manually realign mismatched segments. The resulting bitext (also known as parallel text) alignment can then be imported into a translation memory program for future translations or used as a reference document.\n\nInteractive machine translation is a paradigm in which the automatic system attempts to predict the translation the human translator is going to produce by suggesting translation hypotheses. These hypotheses may either be the complete sentence, or the part of the sentence that is yet to be translated.\n\nAugmented translation is a form of human translation carried out within an integrated technology environment that provides translators access to subsegment adaptive machine translation (MT) and translation memory (TM), terminology lookup (CAT), and automatic content enrichment (ACE) to aid their work, and that automates project management, file handling, and other ancillary tasks.\n\nBased on the concept of augmented reality, augmented translation seeks to make translators more productive by providing them with relevant information on an as-needed basis. This information adapts to the habits and style of individual translators in order to accelerate their work and increase productivity. It differs from classical postediting of MT, which has linguists revise entire texts translated by machines, in that it provides machine translation and information as suggestions that can be adopted in their entirety, edited, or ignored, as appropriate.\n\nAugmented translation extends principles first developed in the 1980s that made their way into CAT tools. However, it integrates several functions that have previously been discrete into one environment. For example, translators historically have had to leave their translation environments to do terminology research, but in an augmented environment, an ACE component would automatically provide links to information about terms and concepts found in the text directly within the environment.\n\nAs of May 2017, no full implementations of an augmented translation environment exist, although individual developers have created partial systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17073876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17073876", "title": "Coordinated management of meaning", "text": "Coordinated management of meaning\n\nIn the social sciences, coordinated management of meaning (CMM) provides understanding of how individuals create, coordinate and manage meanings in their process of communication. Generally, it refers to \"how individuals establish rules for creating and interpreting meaning and how those rules are enmeshed in a conversation where meaning is constantly being coordinated\".\n\nPeople live in a world where there is constant communication. In communicating with others, people assign meanings in their messages based on past conversational experiences from previous social realities. Through communication, an underlying process takes place in which individuals negotiate a common or conflicted meanings of the world around them, thereby creating a new social reality. CMM advocates that meanings can be managed in a productive way so as to improve the state of interactions by coordinating and managing the meaning-making process.\n\nCMM relies on three interdependent elements: coordination, management and meaning. These elements help to explain how social realities are created through conversation.\n\nThe theory of CMM was developed in the mid-1970s by W. Barnett Pearce (1943 - 2011) and Vernon E. Cronen. Communication Action and Meaning was devoted to CMM, is thorough explication of CMM, which Pearce and Cronen introduced to the common scholarly vernacular of the discipline. Their scholarly collaboration at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst offered a major contribution to the philosophy of communication as story-centered, applicable, and ever attentive to the importance of human meaning.\n\nThe cluster of ideas in which CMM emerged has moved from the periphery toward greater acceptance and CMM has continued to evolve along a trajectory from an interpretive social science to one with a critical edge and then to what its founders call a \"practical theory\".\n\nAware that the intellectual footing for communication theory had shifted, the first phase of the CMM project involved developing concepts that met the twin criteria of (1) adequately expressing the richness of human communication and (2) guiding empirical investigation. Pearce describes the creation of CMM through the following story:\n\nCMM is one of an increasing number of theories that see communication as \"performative\" (doing things, not just talking \"about\" them) and \"constitutive\" (the material substance of the social world, not just a means of transmitting information within it). In CMM-speak, \"taking the communication perspective\" means looking at communication rather than through it, and seeing communication as the means by which we make the objects and events of our social worlds.\n\nThe \"communication perspective\" entails a shift in focus from theory to praxis. CMM concepts and models are best understood as providing tools for naming aspects of performance. To date, CMM has found greater acceptance among practitioners than among scholars. Taking the communication perspective confers something like \"communication literacy\"—the ability to inscribe and read the complex process of communication in real time. Among other things, CMM's concepts and models guide practitioners in helping clients become aware of the patterns of communication which make up aspects of the social world. They want to change and help both clients and practitioners identify openings or \"bifurcation points\" in everyday lives. Many CMM practitioners have an explicit commitment not only to describe and understand, but to improve the conditions in which they and those around them live. They believe that the best way of making better social worlds is to improve the patterns of communication which generates them.\n\nIt has been said that \"CMM theory is a kind of multi-tool (like a 'Swiss army knife') that is useful in any situation\". It is not a single theory, but rather a collection of ideas to understand how humans interact during communication. According to CMM, individuals construct their own social realities while engaged in conversation. To put it simply, communicators apply rules in order to understand what is going on during their social interaction. Based on the situation, different rules are applied in order to produce \"better\" patterns of communication.\n\nCMM theory is a fairly complex study focusing on both the complexity in the micro-social processes and the aspects of daily interaction. Overall, it is concerned with how we coordinate and establish meaning during interactions. The theory can be complicated to teach and/or present to others, but it is best understood when it is broken down into the basics. The theory consists of three key concepts, which are further broken down into several different building blocks.\n\nThe fundamental building blocks of CMM theory focus specifically on the flow of communication between people. The three different concepts experienced either consciously or unconsciously, are coordination, management and meaning.\n\nCoordination refers to \"the degree to which persons perceive that their actions have fitted together into some mutually intelligible sequence or pattern of actions\". It exists \"when two people attempt to make sense out of the sequencing of messages in their conversation\". That is, if people in the interaction can recognize what their partners are talking about, then we say the conversation come to a coordination. Scientists believes that people's desire for coordination in interaction arises from the subjectivity of meaning, which means the same message may have different meanings to different people. In order to avoid this pitfall in communication, people work together to share meanings. Research shows that sense making is the foundation of coordination. By tokens within the information connected by means of channel can the logic relationship emerges, then it contributes to the sense making. Sense making helps people to establish common understanding then further develops coordination between people.\n\nThe concept of coordination has to do with the fact that our actions do not stand alone with regard to communication. The words or actions that we use during a conversation come together to produce patterns. These patterns, also known as stories lived, influence the behavior used during each interaction as a way to collaborate. Pearce and Cronen are quick to point out that coordination does not imply a commitment to coordinate \"smoothly\", but rather the concept is meant to provide the basis for being mindful of the other side of the story.\n\nThere are three possible outcome of coordination:\n\n1. People in the interaction achieve coordination.\n\n2. People in the interaction failed to achieve coordination.\n\n3. People in the interaction achieve some degree of coordination.\n\nIf the interaction fail to achieve coordination or achieve partially coordination, the possible solution is to move the level of meaning to another level.\n\nOur interactions are guided and defined by rules. \"Interactants must understand the social reality and then incorporate rules as they decide how to act in a given situation.\" From the use of rules, individuals manage and coordinate meanings in the conversation. \"Once rules are established in a dialogue, interactants will have a sufficiently common symbolic framework for communication.\" For instance, it would be ambiguous if a friend says \"I hate you\". Does the friend really hate whomever he/she is speaking to or he/she is just expressing his/her feelings at the moment? Rules will help clarify and explain this kind of meanings.\n\nCMM theory sees each conversation as a complex interconnected series of events in which each individual affects and is affected by the other. Although the primary emphasis of CMM theory has to do with the concept of first person communication, known as a participatory view, once the concepts are understood they are more readily visible during other interactions. Furthermore, this knowledge can be applied to similar situations which will in turn lead to more effective communication.\n\nCoordinated management of meaning states that people \"organize meaning in a hierarchical manner.\" Theorists on CMM was in agreement on two points regarding hierarchical meaning. \"First, the hierarchical of meaning defines the context in which regulative and constitutive rules are to be understood. Second, these contexts are arranged in a hierarchical af abstractness, such that higher levels of the hierarchy help to define – and may subsume – lower level.\" It can interpreted to each of the contexts in the \"hierarchical can be understood by looking at the other contexts, and each contexts is always contextualizing other contexts.\"\n\nThere are six levels of meaning. \"Levels below are illustrated from lower level to higher level.\"\n\nThe content or message according to CMM theory relates to the raw data and information spoken aloud during communication.To put it simply, content is the words used to communicate. The content is essentially the basic building blocks of any language; however, it is important to note that the content by itself is not sufficient to establish the meaning of the communication.\n\nAnother integral part of the CMM theory includes the speech act. \"Speech acts communicate the intention of the speaker and indicate how a particular communication should be taken.\" The simplest explanation of a speech act is \"actions that you perform by speaking. They include compliments, insults, promises, threats, assertions, and questions\". CMM theory draws upon the speech act theory, which further breaks down speech acts into separate categories of sounds or utterances. Though the speech act theory is much more detailed, it is important to have an understanding of both illocutionary and perlocutionary utterances.\n\n\nThere are many different utterances or speech acts including questions, answers, commands, promises and statements. Having knowledge of each of these plays a large part in an individual being able to participate in a communications exchange.\n\nAn episode is a situation created by persons in a conversation. The same content can take on different meaning when the situation is different. For example, a phrase used among close family or friends may take on an entirely different meaning in a job interview. In the interactions, people may punctuate differently on a same episode. This will result to people deal with the differences on their punctuations on subsequent episodes. Especially when people situated the bi-cultural or multi-cultural situation has identified a number of specific acts which occurred in an equivalent situation in the other culture, would have totally disrupted the episode.\n\nRelationship is the higher level of the meaning, where \"relational boundaries in that parameters are established for attitudes and behaviors.\" This building block is fairly easy to understand as it is the dynamic of what connects two (or more) individuals during an exchange of information. Examples of a relationship could be defined as a parent/child, teacher/student, strangers, etc. Communication between strangers would likely be different from conversations amongst family members.\n\nLife scripts can be understood as the patterns of episodes. On this level, \"every individual's history of relationships and interactions will influence rules and interaction patterns.\" Life scripts are similar to the autobiography of individuals. It comprises the person's exceptions for variety communicative events. Several CMM texts describe this building block as a \"script for who we are\" as the role an individual plays in the movie of life. For example, an individual may believe they are funny, and therefore may act according to that perspective while engaged in different conversations.\n\nThe concept of culture in CMM theory relates to a set of rules for acting and speaking which govern what we understand to be normal in a given episode. There are different rules for social interaction depending on the culture. To some extent, during communication individuals act in accordance with their cultural values. While we often don't even realize that culture impacts communication during day to day interactions, people must learn to be compatible with individuals from different cultures in order to have effective communication.\n\nPearce is adamant that CMM is not just an interpretive theory but is meant to be a practical theory as well. There is extensive literature involving the use of CMM to address family violence, intra-community relations, workplace conflict and many other social issues. A research employs CMM to understand the \"perceived acts of discrimination manifested within the context of everyday interactions.\" By applying CMM into research, the researchers are able to explicate the rules of meaning-making that majority and minority groups followed in understanding the discrimination act. Another application example was done in 1994 when CMM was initially recognized by people. It believes that the framework of CMM provides an understanding of \"the structure and process of consumer decision making by placing those decisions within the context of a family's social reality\".\n\nAlong this line, CMM theorists have used or developed several analysis models to help understand and improve communication. The models addressed here are the hierarchy model, the serpentine model, charmed and strange loops. Examples for the first model have been adapted from ones Pearce uses in one of his writings where he analyzes the courtroom conversation between Ramzi Yousef, the individual convicted of bombing the World Trade Center in 1994, and Kevin T. Duffy, the federal judge who presided over his trial. In Yousef's statement before sentencing, he criticizes the US for its hypocrisy; he accuses the US of being the premier terrorist, and reasserts his pride in his fight against the US. At the sentencing, Duffy accuses Yousef of being a virus, evil, perverting the principles of Islam, and interested only in death. Neither individual really talks to the other, but rather at them.\n\nThe hierarchy model is the hierarchy of organized meanings as illustrated in the \"Meaning\" section. The hierarchy model is a tool for an individual to explore the perspectives of their conversational partners while also enabling them to take a more thorough look at their own personal perspective. The elements at the top of each list form the overall context in which each story takes place and have an influence on the elements below them. The levels of meaning from lowest to highest are: content, speech act, episodes, relationship, life scripts, and cultural patterns.\n\nStephen W. Littlejohn and Karen A. Foss in their book \"Theories of Human Communication\" (Tenth Edition) describe a type of logical force called contextual force. Contextual force causes a person to follow a form of logic that leads one to believe that an action or interpretation is a direct result of, and is appropriate to, the context. For example, \"How else could I have reacted?\" or \"Naturally I acted that way, it was appropriate to the situation,\" leads to the mentality of \"I did what I had to do.\" Secondly, in CMM contexts are extremely important and they are not static and unchanging. For example, a relationship that is longstanding can contextualize the episode of an ugly argument as something unpleasant, but unavoidable. The couple will most likely worth though this ugly argument because of their relationship contextualizing the episode. However, an episode of an ugly argument can contextualize a relationship if a couple is on their first date. Therefore the argument is more likely to contextualize the relationship is over or not worth pursuing. What contextualizes what in the hierarchy of organized meanings overlaps and is interlinked in a complicated hierarchy of meanings which can shift at any moment.\n\nThe CMM theorists take the hierarchy model a step further by reinforcing the importance of interaction and adding the aspect of time. Pearce stresses that communication cannot be done alone and that furthermore this usually occurs before or after another's actions. Therefore, understanding past events and their impact on individuals is essential to improving communication. This new model is called the serpentine model and visually demonstrates how communication is a back and forth interaction between participants rather than just a simple transmission of information.\n\nThe embedded contexts illustrated in the hierarchy model represent a stable hierarchy. It suggests that higher levels subsume lower levels. Meanwhile, sometimes \"lower levels can reflect back and affect the meaning of higher levels.\" This process is termed \"loop\". CMM believes that there is a stronger \"contextual effect\", which works from higher levels to the lower levels, and a weaker \"implicative effect\", which works the other way. When loops are consistent with the hierarchy, it is identified as a \"charmed loop\". In this kind of interaction, each person's perceptions and actions help to reinforce the other's perceptions and actions.\n\nWhen the lower levels are inconsistent with the higher levels, it is called a \"strange loop\". Essentially, \"a 'strange' loop is a repetitive interactional pattern that alternates between contradictory meanings\". For example, the alcoholic identifies that he is an alcoholic and then quits drinking. Since he has quit drinking, he convinces himself that he is not really an alcoholic and so he starts drinking again, which makes him an alcoholic. He alternates between contradictory perceptions of being an alcoholic and not being an alcoholic. The charmed and strange loop model also has its applications. In a research regarding the social construction of male college student logical forces, the charmed and strange loop model was utilized in studying male college students' narratives in describing their memorable sexual experiences.\n\nLess commonly, there is a third variation called \"subversive\" loop. Texts and contexts within a subversive loop are mutually invalidating and can prevent coherence and coordination. It may result in intentionally outrageous behavior, efforts to act in uninterruptible ways, or refusal to recognize the possibility that the outsider can understand the situation of the insider.\n\nCMM theory is regarding as kind of multi-tool by providing a framework to structure different themes. In this regard, there are lots of qualitative study using CMM to illustrate its utility for framing their findings. Because people interpret messages and know the rules or guide which can follow and have actions constitute appropriate responses. Now, its focus on cultural influence to get insights into how individuals negotiate complex messages occurring at different levels of meaning. Since CMM attempts to explain the process by group member to make sense out of the regular path of messages and carried out into a group conversation. So according to CMM, individual perspective with group approach conversation need to combine and create a better meaning-building.\n\nIn order to provide criticism of the CMM theory, it is important to establish a baseline for what accounts for a \"good\" study. Many scholars use different criteria for determining what makes a theory relevant, but they most often surround the following six concepts.\n\nCMM has been criticized for too broad in its scope and highly abstract in its nature. \"Poole wrote 'It is difficult ... to paint with broad strokes and at the same time give difficult areas the attention they deserve'.\". In 1987, Brenders also stated that \"in its broad - stroked approach to human interaction, CMM has missed many of the linguistic, international, and theoretical nuances necessary for an understanding of communicative meaning\" It is also criticized for its conceptual apparatus as \"incomplete with regard to a full examination of the material layering of practices\"\n\nFrom a humanistic perspective, CMM theory is seen as valuable as it seeks to provide a way to clarify communication for better interaction and understanding. Its utility lies in \"how people achieve meaning, their potential recurring conflicts, and the influence of the self on the communication process is admirable.\" It promotes reform by encouraging individuals to explain particular viewpoints in order to reach understanding.\n\nThe final point can be seen as both a criticism and positive critique. Pearce and Cronen are constantly building upon the CMM theory which was originally outlined in the 1970s. By constant corrections and revisions, the theorists are working toward improving the examination of communication interactions; however, with each new update, minor course corrections alter the terms and meanings which increase the complexity of the overall theory.\n\nCMM has guided research in an array of context and disciplines. Further discussion of CMM concepts and applications for research can be found at the following location: CMM Research\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3837885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3837885", "title": "Crysis (video game)", "text": "Crysis (video game)\n\nCrysis is a first-person shooter video game developed by Crytek and published by Electronic Arts for Microsoft Windows and released in November 2007. It is the first game in the \"Crysis\" series. A separate game entitled \"Crysis Warhead\" was released on September 16, 2008, and follows similar events as Crysis but from a different narrative perspective. At the time \"Crysis\" was released, and years thereafter, it has been praised for its milestones in graphical design (commensurate with high hardware requirements).\n\nThe game is based in a future where a massive ancient alien-built structure has been discovered buried inside a mountain in the fictional Lingshan Islands, near the coast of the East Philippines. The single-player campaign has the player assume the role of U.S. Army Delta Force soldier Jake Dunn, referred to in-game by his callsign, Nomad. Nomad is armed with various futuristic weapons and equipment, most notably a \"Nanosuit\" which was inspired by the real-life military concept of Future Force Warrior. In \"Crysis\", the player fights both North Korean and extraterrestrial enemies in various environments on and around the island.\n\nAs with Crytek's previous game \"Far Cry\", \"Crysis\" is a first-person shooter game with many ways to meet objectives.\n\nThe player controls a Delta Force soldier codenamed Nomad. The player's weapons can be customized without pausing the flow of time, for example changing firing modes, changing scopes or adding sound suppressors. The player is also capable of selecting various modes in Nomad's military \"Nanosuit\" which draw power from the suit's energy. When the suit's energy is depleted, no modes can be used and the player is more vulnerable to damage before the suit recharges. One of four modes can be selected: Armor deflects damage and recharges the suit's energy faster; Strength allows stronger hand-to-hand combat, the ability to throw objects and enemies with deadly force, higher jumps, steadier aiming and reduced weapon recoil; Speed increases running and swimming speed, as well as other forms of motion such as reloading weapons; and Cloak, which renders Nomad almost completely invisible and suppresses movement noise.\n\nThe suit's integral facemask has its own HUD, displaying typical data including a tactical map, health, current energy levels, and weapons information. The view is electronic in nature, shown in-game through things such as a booting readout and visual distortion during abnormal operation. A particularly useful utility is the binocular function, which allows the player to zoom in and electronically tag enemies and vehicles from afar, thereby tracking their movement on the tactical display.\n\nThe player can engage enemies in a variety of ways; using stealth or aggression, bullets or non-lethal tranquilizers, ranged rifles or short-range weaponry, and so on. Enemy soldiers employ tactical maneuvers and work as squads. All soldiers will respond to noise caused by the player, including using signal flares to call for reinforcements. If the player has not been detected in the area, enemies will exhibit relaxed behaviour, but if aware of the player they will draw weapons and become combative.\n\nThe game features assault rifles, sub-machine guns, pistols, missile launchers, shotguns, miniguns, sniper rifles, gauss rifles (or coilgun), the MOAC (a machine-gun-like alien weapon which fires high-velocity ice shards), and the TAC gun (a hand-held nuclear grenade launcher). Most weapons can be modified with attachments; these attachments may be given to the player by default, acquired from picked-up weapons, or purchased in multiplayer. Attachment options are given a fair amount of leeway even if the end result may seem strange. For instance, a 4x/10x sniper scope can be attached to the buckshot-firing shotgun, though obviously there is no practical use for such a combination. Additionally, most weapons have multiple firing modes (single/automatic fire) and different ammo types; for example, the KPA's FY-71 can fire both conventional bullets as well as incendiary bullets, which increase damage. Crysis also incorporates some features that have appeared in other recent shooters such as accounting for already-chambered rounds when a reload occurs.\n\nA large selection of vehicles are present, most of which are usable by the player. Available ground vehicles range from pickup trucks to tanks, while naval vessels range from motorboats to light military hovercraft. A larger patrol boat is available in custom-made multiplayer maps using the sandbox editor. All vehicles, including Humvees, pickup trucks, even tanks, have a turbo mode that can be activated via the Shift key (by default). The aircraft selection is limited to the North Korean attack helicopter and a fictional American VTOL (each of which can transport six passengers and two crew). Crytek also included an amphibious APC, a wheeled version of the APC that can travel on water and land, although this vehicle was only available for those who pre-ordered the game.\n\nDamage modeling, although limited in vehicles, is most noticeable in the ability to burst tires, although wheeled vehicles can still move even if all the tires are gone, slowly rolling along on the rims. Tracked vehicles such as tanks or APCs can lose their tracks as a result of damage, but may continue moving even though there is no way for the drive sprockets to propel the vehicle. Exposed gas cans on Humvees can be shot in order to detonate their contents, which usually results in the explosion of the vehicle. While burning, destroyed vehicles will cause proximity heat damage to objects and characters. Unavailable vehicles shown in-game include jet aircraft, excavator, forklift and for reasons of scale, destroyers. None of the alien machines can be commandeered by players. The wheeled carts which would presumably be used to move aircraft or heavy vehicles, can also be moved by the player, but movement is very slow and useful for little more than entertainment and novelty.\n\nUp to 32 players are supported in each multiplayer match in \"Crysis\" multiplayer, which used the GameSpy Network and required the user to have an existing user ID or otherwise create a new one. There are two different modes, each with six available maps: Instant Action, a deathmatch type mode; and Power Struggle, which is played by two opposing teams, each trying to destroy the other's headquarters.\n\n\"Power Struggle\" features the American Delta Force soldiers fighting the North Korean army; both sides, however, have nanosuits. All players begin armed with only a pistol and a nanosuit. Weapons and vehicles can be found throughout the map, but generally must be bought by using \"Prestige Points,\" which are earned by killing enemies or capturing buildings.\n\nThe aim of Power Struggle is to destroy the enemy headquarters, a task which is achieved using nuclear weapons in the form of a TAC Tank, a TAC launcher, or by using a Singularity Tank, which generates a temporary black hole in the target area. To gain access to nuclear or singularity weapons, the player must first capture the \"prototype facility\" which is used to make them, and then use the alien crash sites which feed the facility with energy necessary to build up enough energy to build weapons of mass destruction.\n\nOne must earn Prestige Points, attained by killing enemies and taking over Bunkers, Power Stations, and Factories, to buy weapons and vehicles, including any of the aforementioned superweapons. Some of the weapons available in the game are machine guns, pistols, a shotgun, a precision rifle, ammo, a rocket launcher, explosives, and a gauss rifle (a sniper-type weapon able to kill another player in one shot).\n\nThe advanced weapons available for purchase from the Prototype Factory (aside from nuclear and singularity weapons) require 50% energy. Weapons the player can buy are the handheld minigun, the MOAC which has infinite ammo and fires ice shards, and the MOAR, which is an upgrade that can be attached to the MOAC causing it to fire a beam that will instantly freeze all enemies and some vehicles.\n\n\"Capture The Flag\", originally planned to be included in the game, is no longer part of the game mode line up, due to its similarity to Power Struggle. Even so, Jack Mamais, lead designer, stated that Crytek hopes that this mode will be developed by the modding community. Crytek CEO Cevat Yerli also said that Team Action would not be included as a multiplayer mode, because players would gravitate towards either Instant Action, or Power Struggle.\n\nOn April 14, 2014, Crytek announced that the multiplayer mode will be unplayable after GameSpy switches off its servers on May 30, 2014.\n\nThe game begins on August 7, 2020 when North Korean forces led by General Ri-Chan Kyong take control of the Lingshan Islands. A team of American civilian archaeologists, led by Dr. Rosenthal, send out a distress call indicating that they have discovered something that could change the world. A week later, Delta Force's Raptor Team, is dispatched to the islands, with the core mission of evacuating them and securing any valuable information that they have. The team consists of Nomad, Psycho, Aztec, Jester and team leader Prophet (all under code names); they are outfitted with technologically advanced Nanosuits, which help protect them from gunfire and explosions, as well as giving them superhuman strength and abilities. As they perform a high-altitude jump onto one of the islands, an unknown flying entity disrupts the jump by smashing into Nomad, and the team is separated. The crash deactivates Nomad's Nanosuit and destroys his parachute, but he is saved because he lands on water and his suit absorbs the impact of the landing. After he makes his way to shore, Prophet is able to reset Nomad's suit remotely, restoring its normal function.\n\nAs Raptor Team regroups after the jump, Aztec is killed by an unknown entity. When the team finds him, they discover that whatever killed him also killed and dismembered a nearby squad of KPA soldiers. The remaining members of Raptor Team proceed with the mission. Along the way they discover the hostages' boat frozen on a hill near the coast of the island. They also get their first look at the aliens who have been attacking their team when a flying alien machine sneaks up on them and snatches Jester, killing him shortly thereafter. The first hostage the team rescues turns out to be a CIA agent who was sent to monitor Dr. Rosenthal's work. In the jungle, Nomad finds another hostage named Badowski dead with ice shards in his back as the KPA battle an alien machine nearby. After Nomad regroups with Prophet, Prophet is suddenly snatched by another flying machine, which flies away with him in its grasp. Shortly after, Nomad is contacted over the radio by Major Clarence Strickland of the American military asking if he wishes to abort the mission since most of his team has been killed or missing; Nomad refuses, saying that he can still complete the mission.\nNomad makes his way to Dr. Rosenthal's research complex, where he has found a rare fossilized artifact predating humanity by two million years. The partially excavated artifact resembles one of the flying machines (designated \"exosuits\") that has been attacking the team. Rosenthal also references other discoveries of similar artifacts in Afghanistan and Siberia, suggesting that the aliens have a global presence, and are not just confined to the island. While Rosenthal is running a scan on the artifact, it emits a powerful energy pulse that freezes him solid. Nomad's Nanosuit is able to maintain his internal temperature, saving his life. Nomad then rendezvous with a VTOL, after eliminating a Nanosuit-equipped four-man KPA special forces team near the landing site. He notifies his superiors about this, because the U.S. military had hoped to prevent the Koreans from acquiring Nanosuit technology.\n\nThe U.S. military then begins a full-scale invasion of the island, led by Major Strickland. As the U.S. forces continue to the main excavation site, the central mountain on the island begins to fall apart, revealing a huge alien structure inside, which is nearly the size of the mountain itself. Nomad enters the excavation site at the mountain's base, but is captured by Kyong's men. Kyong deactivates Nomad's Nanosuit, and Nomad watches, helpless, as Kyong shoots one of the hostages in the head and then detonates explosive charges to open the structure. An energy pulse emanates from the structure and kills Kyong's men; the pulse also reactivates Nomad's Nanosuit. Kyong, also wearing a Nanosuit, attacks Nomad, but Nomad is able to kill him. As the mountain continues to collapse, a VTOL evacuates the last hostage, Dr. Rosenthal's daughter Helena, but is unable to rescue Nomad.\n\nNomad gets trapped and decides to continue into the alien structure. It soon turns into a zero gravity environment. Nomad uses his hydro-thrusters to maneuver and encounters hostile, intelligent aliens. He also sees a possible invasion force consisting of many alien machines. Nomad manages to escape, but the structure creates a massive sphere of energy that freezes everything inside its structure to -200 °F (-129 °C). Once outside, Nomad is attacked by various Alien machines before finding Prophet. Prophet was able to engineer a weapon using the aliens' technology, the Molecular Accelerator (MOAC). Prophet's Nanosuit malfunctions, requiring him to frequently stop and recharge using heat sources, such as the burning wrecks of military vehicles. The two leave the ice sphere and rescue Helena, whose VTOL has crashed. Prophet leaves with Helena on another VTOL. At the U.S. evacuation point, one of the last VTOLs rescues Nomad from an unstoppable quadrupedal alien exosuit. Just as the exosuit is about to destroy the VTOL, Major Strickland draws its attention by firing at it using a mounted machine gun and the exosuit kills Strickland instead. As they leave the island, the pilot is killed and the engines are damaged. Nomad flies the crippled VTOL back to the USS \"Constitution\" (CVN-80) Carrier Strike Group while fighting off aliens along the way.\n\nOnce there, he meets up again with Psycho and is then debriefed by Admiral Richard Morrison who explains that a nuclear strike has been ordered against the ice sphere. Helena warns him that the aliens might absorb the energy, but the Admiral ignores her. Prophet flies a VTOL back to the island against orders. Despite Prophet's departure, the nuclear missile is launched at the ice sphere. The explosion causes the ice sphere to expand and prompts a massive alien counterattack.\n\nNomad is ordered to repair one of the carrier's damaged nuclear reactors. The Nanosuit is resistant to high levels of radiation, although prolonged exposure proves deadly. While Nomad is in the reactor room, Helena sends an experimental signal through Nomad's suit that causes several alien machines to absorb too much power and overload, destroying them. As Nomad returns to the flight deck, Admiral Morrison is killed and Nomad takes the prototype TAC-Cannon. On the flight deck, Nomad fights an alien exosuit similar to the one that killed Strickland. A massive alien warship then emerges from the sea, and Helena manages to deactivate its shields by sending a signal through Nomad's Nanosuit. Nomad then uses the TAC-Cannon to destroy the alien warship, which crashes down onto the carrier and begins to sink it. Nomad runs across the flight deck and jumps off the carrier into the waiting VTOL, which is piloted by Psycho. As they fly away, Helena is nearly pulled out of the aircraft by the energy field created by the destroyed alien warship. The ship drags the \"Constitution\" beneath the surface and vaporizes, creating a massive vortex that engulfs and destroys the entire carrier fleet. Psycho then receives a transmission that there is another carrier strike group en route to the island and suggests meeting them. Nomad protests, claiming that since they now know how to defeat the aliens, they need to continue fighting. A transmission from Prophet, who is inside the energy field on the island, is then received. The VTOL is then seen turning around and heading back to the island.\n\n\"Crysis\" uses Microsoft's API, Direct3D for graphics rendering, and includes the same editor that was used by Crytek to create the game. The game runs on a new engine (CryEngine 2) that is the successor to \"Far Cry\"s CryEngine. CryEngine 2 was among the first engines to use the Direct3D 10 (DirectX 10) framework of Windows Vista, but was designed primarily to run using DirectX 9, both on Vista and Windows XP.\n\nRoy Taylor, Vice President of Content Relations at Nvidia (at the time), has spoken on the subject of the engine's complexity, stating that \"Crysis\" has over a million lines of code, 1 GB of texture data, 85,000 shaders, and nearly three thousand pages of code.\n\n\"Crysis\" is often used as a benchmark in computer tests, as \"Crysis\" at the highest settings and resolutions required processing power from computers that was unfeasible when it was first released. In its time, the game was so demanding on previous computer hardware that the catchphrase \"Can it run Crysis?\" was frequently coined in relation to new or powerful computer hardware, even over a decade after the release of Crysis.\n\nOn August 27, 2007, Crytek announced a single-player demo would be released on September 25; however, the date was pushed back to October 26. The demo featured the entire first level, Contact, as well as the sand box editor. On October 26, Crytek announced that the demo would be postponed for at least one more day and was released to the public on October 27. However, on many sites it was provided a day early, and an oversight allowed people to grab the file directly off an EA server earlier than intended.\n\nShortly after the demo's release some enthusiasts found that, by manipulating the configuration files, most of the \"very high\" graphics settings (normally reserved for DX10) could be activated under DX9. The \"very high\" DX9 graphics mode looks almost identical to the DX10 mode, with certain graphical features not being able to be reproduced correctly under DX9, such as Object Motion Blur.\n\n\"Crysis\" contains a level editor called Sandbox, much like \"Far Cry\"s, in which new levels can be created and edited. Such levels will have full support in all multiplayer modes. This will allow the player to easily build their own levels, seeing everything in real time within the editor. The player can also jump into the map they are working on at any time to test it. The editor is the same one that was used by Crytek to create the game.\n\nAs stated in the readme file accompanying Sandbox, Windows XP Professional x64 Edition or Windows Vista x64 are the only officially supported operating systems for running the editor. According to Crytek, using a 32-bit OS can lead to instabilities with production size levels due to the low amount of virtual memory available and is therefore not supported.\n\nIn July 2011, it was revealed that both the ESRB and the equivalent Korean ratings board had rated the original \"Crysis\" for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.\n\nOn September 8, 2011, a trailer with real-time in-game footage was released on Crytek's Twitter page. It showed brand new features for consoles including all new lighting, new effects and new Nanosuit controls, fine-tuned combat and full stereoscopic 3D support. This version is download-only. \"We are extremely proud of what we were able to accomplish with \"Crysis\",\" said Crytek CEO Cevat Yerli. \"We set out to create a next-generation FPS and delivered a PC experience that became a benchmark for quality- and still is for many gamers even four years later. \"By bringing the single-player campaign to console, we believe we are again setting a new standard for quality in downloadable gaming,\" he added. However, unlike the original, the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of the game lack the online multiplayer component as well as the second to last Campaign mission titled \"Ascension\". Also, neither \"Warhead\" nor \"Wars\" expansions are included. It was released on October 4, 2011.\n\nThe limited or collector's edition of \"Crysis\" is called \"Special Edition\". The three-disc \"Crysis Special Edition\" contains the following:\n\n\n\"Crysis\" was announced to be the first game in a trilogy by Crytek. Despite this, the next game released under the \"Crysis\" name was not the second chapter in the trilogy. Released for Microsoft Windows on September 16, 2008 in North America and September 19, 2008 in Europe, \"Crysis Warhead\" is a stand-alone expansion that allows the player to play the story told in the original \"Crysis\", but this time from the viewpoint of Sgt. Michael Sykes, also known as \"Psycho\". The multiplayer element in \"Crysis Warhead\" is now called \"Crysis Wars\".\n\nUpon its release, \"Crysis\" was met with critical acclaim. Review aggregator website Metacritic rated the PC version 91/100, the Xbox 360 version 81/100, and the PlayStation 3 version 81/100. The game was awarded a 98% in the \"PC Gamer\" U.S. Holiday 2007 issue, making it one of the highest rated games ever in \"PC Gamer\", tying with \"Half-Life 2\" and \"Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri\". GameSpot awarded \"Crysis\" a score of 9.5 out of 10, describing it as \"easily one of the greatest shooters ever made.\" GameSpy gave it a 4.5 out of 5 stating that the suit powers were fun but also criticizing the multiplayer portion of the game for not having a team deathmatch. X-Play gave it a 3 out of 5 on its \"Holiday Buyer's Guide\" special episode, praising the graphics and physics, but criticized the steep hardware requirements as well as stating that the game is overhyped with average gameplay. \"GamePro\" honored \"Crysis\" with a score of 4.75 out of 5, saying it was \"a great step forward for PC gaming,\" but criticized the steep hardware requirements. IGN awarded it a 9.4 out of 10, hailing it as \"one of the more entertaining ballistic showdowns in quite some time.\" A retrospective review for bit-tech.net in June 2010 criticized the game for failing to deliver on its pre-release promise, saying that the art direction was \"boring and monotonous,\" that the nanosuit was underwhelming and that the plot could be summarized as \"Rescue these people who look to be being held captive by Koreans. Oh no Aliens!\" The review concluded by saying, \"Crysis was the epitome of style over substance.\"\n\nAccording to The simExchange, the NPD Group reported that \"Crysis\" moved 86,633 retail units in the first two weeks of its release in North America, but while it beat their expectations, the sales were considered disappointing overall. Two months later, on Electronic Arts' earnings conference of the quarter, it was reported that Crysis had reached the 1 million units mark, and that it had exceeded their expectations. It received a \"Silver\" sales award from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), indicating sales of at least 100,000 copies in the United Kingdom.\n\nOn the other hand, Cevat Yerli stated during an interview with PC Play in April 2008 that he was disappointed to see the game leading the charts in piracy and because of that his studio would not produce any more PC exclusives, as he believed a game such as \"Crysis\" would sell four to five times more copies if it was released on consoles. Piracy figures released by TorrentFreak indicate that \"Crysis\" was indeed one of the most pirated PC games of the year. In June 2008 Cevat stated that while their hopes have not been met, the game has reached their real expectations and in August he added that despite its million budget the game has turned profitable for them. By May 2010 the game has sold over 3 million units (and its standalone expansion about 1.5 million units) making it one of the best selling PC games of all time.\n\nGameSpot awarded \"Crysis\" \"Best Shooter\" in its \"Best of 2007\" awards, saying that \"It was this open-ended, emergent gameplay--the ability to let us tackle our challenges in whatever way we wished.\" They also awarded it with \"Best Graphics: Technical\" and \"Best PC Game\" stating that \"The firefights in the game are beautiful to look at, but extremely intense affairs that force you to think quickly--and reward you for doing so. It's a dynamic game, one that you can play several times to discover new things and to experiment with different approaches.\"\n\n\"PC Gamer\" awarded \"Crysis\" its \"Game of the Year\" and \"Action Game of the Year\" in its March 2008, \"Games of the Year Awards\" issue. \"PC Gamer\" also remarked that \"Crysis has pushed PC gaming to a new plateau, marrying the most advanced graphics engine ever created with phenomenal gameplay. From the cinematic opening to credits to its cliffhanger ending, Crysis is mesmerizing.\"\n\n\"Gamereactor\" gave \"Crysis\" a perfect ten, and awarded it with its \"Best Action Game of 2007\", saying that \"the action genre is forever changed.\"\n\nIGN awarded \"Crysis\" its \"Editor's Choice Award\", saying that \"the Halo 2-type ending... wasn't enough to deter me from heartily recommending action fans pick this one up.\"\n\nAt the time of its release, \"Crysis\" was one of the most computationally expensive games on then-current computer hardware, around the time that PCI Express started to become a standard for video cards. Because of the computational demand, the phrase \"But can it run \"Crysis\"?\" became an Internet meme, questioning if personal computer systems with the best-possible hardware could run the game at its maximum quality and resolution settings. The phrase was applied jokingly to non-gaming computers (such as NASA mainframes) to question if the computers were powerful enough to run the software. Future \"Crysis\" games, which were co-developed for both personal computers and consoles, were more focused on good performance on all platforms, and had dropped some of the demanding rendering aspects of the game engine, thus making the \"But can it run \"Crysis\"?\" question moot.\n\nOn May 30, 2009, Crytek announced the second chapter in the \"Crysis\" trilogy, which continued where the first game ended. Released on March 22, 2011, \"Crysis 2\" was developed for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. In addition to seeking a United States trademark on the name \"Crysis\", Crytek sought to trademark the names \"Crysis Wars\", \"World in Crysis\", and \"Crysis Warhead\". On April 16, 2012, EA and Crytek officially announced that \"Crysis 3\" was in development. The game was released in February 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "333355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=333355", "title": "Crêpe", "text": "Crêpe\n\nA crêpe or crepe ( or , , ) is a type of very thin pancake. Crêpes are usually of two types: \"sweet crêpes\" (\"crêpes sucrées\") and \"savoury galettes\" (\"crêpes salées\"). Crêpes are served with a variety of fillings, from the simplest with only sugar to flambéed crêpes Suzette or elaborate savoury galettes. While crêpes are often associated with Brittany, a region in the northwest of France, their consumption is widespread in France, Belgium, Canada, and many parts of Europe, North Africa, and the Southern Cone of South America.\n\nCrêpes belong to the general category of ancient Greek Tiganitai, from Greek tiganos (τίγανος), meaning \"frying pan\", which in English is literally translated to Pancakes. The French term, crêpe, derives from the Latin \"crispa\", meaning tiganitai with \"creases\". The name \"galette\" came from the French word \"galet\" (\"pebble\") since the first gallettes were made on a large pebble heated in a fire. \n\nIn France, crêpes are traditionally served on Candlemas (\"La Chandeleur\"), 2 February. This day was originally Virgin Mary's Blessing Day but became known in France as \"Le Jour des Crêpes\" (literally translated \"The Day of the Crêpes\", and sometimes called colloquially as \"Avec Crêpe Day\", \"National Crêpe Day\", or \"day of the Crêpe \"), referring to the tradition of offering crêpes. The belief was that catching the crêpe with a frying pan after tossing it in the air with your right hand while holding a gold coin in your left hand would cause you to become rich that year. The roundness, and golden colour from being fried in butter, of the crêpe resembles the sun and its rays. This symbolism also applies to the coin held in the person's hand.\n\nSweet crêpes are generally made with wheat flour (\"farine de froment\"). When sweet, they can be eaten as part of breakfast or as a dessert. Common fillings include Nutella spread, preserves, sugar (granulated or powdered), maple syrup, golden syrup, lemon juice, whipped cream, fruit spreads, custard, and sliced soft fruits or confiture.\n\nSavory crêpes are made with non-wheat flours such as buckwheat. Batter made from buckwheat flour is gluten-free, which makes it possible for people who have a gluten allergy or intolerance to eat this type of crêpe. Common savoury fillings for crêpes served for lunch or dinner are cheese, ham, and eggs, ratatouille, mushrooms, artichoke (in certain regions), and various meat products. \n\nBatters can also consist of other simple ingredients such as butter, milk, water, eggs, flour, salt, and sugar. Fillings are commonly added to the centre of the crêpe and served with the edges partially folded over the centre.\nA variety of crepe is also made in India which uses multi-grain flour, eggs, curd and an assortment of spices as its ingredients. It is a modern variation of an Indian dish called Thalipeeth\n\nA crêperie may be a takeaway restaurant or stall, serving crêpes as a form of fast food or street food, or may be a more formal sit-down restaurant or café.\n\nCrêperies are typical of Brittany in France; however, crêperies can be found throughout France and in many other countries.\n\nBecause a crêpe may be served as both a main meal or a dessert, crêperies may be quite diverse in their selection and may offer other baked goods such as baguettes. They may also serve coffee, tea, buttermilk, and cider (a popular drink to accompany crêpes).\n\nCrêpes are especially popular throughout France. The common ingredients include flour, eggs, milk, butter, and a pinch of salt. Crêpes are usually of two types: \"sweet crêpes\" (\"crêpes sucrées\") made with wheat flour and slightly sweetened; and \"savoury galettes\" (\"crêpes salées\") made with buckwheat flour and unsweetened. The name \"galette\" came from the French word \"galet\" (\"pebble\") since the first gallettes were made on a large pebble heated in a fire. Batter made from buckwheat flour is gluten-free, which makes it possible for people who have a gluten allergy or intolerance to eat this type of crêpe. \"Mille crêpes\" is a French cake made of many crêpe layers. The word \"mille\" means \"a thousand\", implying the many layers of crêpe. Another standard French and Belgian crêpe is the \"crêpe Suzette\", a crêpe with lightly grated orange peel and liqueur (usually Grand Marnier) which is subsequently lit upon presentation.\n\nEnglish pancakes are like wheat flour crêpes, and are served with golden syrup or lemon juice and sugar. Swedish pancakes, also called Nordic pancakes, are similar to the French crêpes. In some of the Nordic countries, they are served with jam or fruit, especially lingonberries (or the butter from that fruit) as a dessert with a variety of savoury fillings. Traditional Swedish variations can be exotic. Beside the usual thin pancakes, called pannkakor in Swedish and räiskäle in Finnish, which resemble the French crêpes and, often served with whipped cream and jam, are traditionally eaten for lunch on Thursdays with pea soup, the Swedish cuisine (as well as the Finnish one) has plättar/lettu which resemble tiny English pancakes, and are fried several at a time in a special pan. Others resemble German pancakes but include fried pork in the batter (fläskpannkaka); these are baked in the oven. Potato pancakes called raggmunk contain shredded raw potato and may contain other vegetables (sometimes the pancake batter is omitted, producing rårakor). \n\nA special Swedish pancake is saffron pancake from Gotland, made with saffron and rice, baked in the oven. It is common to add lemon juice to the sugar for extra taste. The pancakes are often served after a soup. Another special \"Swedish pancake\" is the äggakaka (eggcake), also called skånsk äggakaka (scanian eggcake). It is almost like an ordinary Swedish pancake but it is a lot thicker and also a lot more difficult to make due to the risk of burning it. It is made in a frying pan and is about 1½ to 2 inches thick and is served with lingonberries and bacon. The Norwegian variety is commonly eaten for dinner, traditionally with bacon, jam (typically bilberry jam) or sugar.\nThe 49er flapjack is a sourdough crepe which is popular in the United States, getting its name from the popularity of this style of pancake during the California Gold Rush. Because it is similar to a Swedish pancake the 49er is sometimes served with lingonberry sauce, although most often it is rolled up with butter and powdered sugar, or served open-faced and topped with maple syrup.\n\nCherry Kijafa Crêpes are also often common and are made with a traditional crêpe base, but filled with cherries simmered in a Kijafa wine sauce.\n\n\"Crêpe dentelle\" is a crispy biscuit made with a very thin layer of crêpe folded in a cigar shape and then baked. It is usually enjoyed with a hot drink during the \"goûter\", in France.\n\nIn Norwegian, crêpes are called \"pannekake\", in most German regions \"Pfannkuchen\". In Swedish, a crêpe is called \"pannkaka\" in southern regions while being called \"plättar\" in the north, in Danish, \"pandekager\" (\"pancakes\"), in Icelandic it is called \"pönnukaka\", in Finnish a crêpe is called either \"ohukainen\" or \"lettu\" or \"räiskäle\", in Dutch it is a \"pannenkoek\" or \"flensje\", and in Afrikaans a \"pannekoek\", which is usually served with cinnamon sugar. In the Spanish regions of Galicia and Asturias, they are traditionally served at carnivals. In Galicia, they're called \"filloas\", and may also be made with pork blood instead of milk. In Asturias, they are called \"fayueles\" or \"frixuelos\", and in Turkey, \"akıtma\".\n\nIn areas of central Europe, formerly belonging to the Austro-Hungarian empire, there is a thin pancake comparable to a crêpe that in Austro-Bavarian is called \"Palatschinken\"; in ; and in Bosnian, Serbian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Montenegrin, Czech, Croatian, and ; in . In the Balkan region such as the countries of Albania, Bosnia, Croatia, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, and Serbia, \"palačinka\" or \"pallaçinka\" may be eaten with fruit jam, quark cheese, sugar, honey, or the hazelnut-chocolate cream Nutella, while there is also a breaded variant which is mostly filled with meat. Restaurants which are specialised in palačinci are called \"Palačinkara\" in the region. In Ashkenazi Jewish cuisine, there is a similar dish known as the blintz. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" derives the German and Slavic words from the Hungarians \"palacsinta\", which it derives from the Romanian \"plăcintă\", which comes in turn from classical Latin \"placenta\" (\"small flat cake\"), even though the Romanian \"plăcintă\" is more similar to a pie, and the crêpes are actually called \"clătită\".\n\nCrêpes have also long been popular in Japan and Malaysia, with sweet and savoury varieties being sold at many small stands, usually called crêperies. In Argentina, Chile and Uruguay, they are called \"panqueques\" and are often eaten with dulce de leche. Various other French foods, such as crêpes, souffles, and quiche, have slowly made their way into North American cooking establishments. Typically, these franchises stick to the traditional French method of making crêpes but they have also put their own spin on the crêpe with new types such as the hamburger and pizza crêpe. In Mexico, crêpes are known as \"crepas\", and were introduced during the 19th century by the French and are typically served either as a sweet dessert when filled with \"cajeta\" (similar to dulce de leche), or as a savoury dish when filled with \"Huitlacoche\" (corn smut), which is considered a delicacy.\n\nDuring the Russian celebration of Maslenitsa (Russian Butter Week), one of the most popular foods is blini, or crêpes. Since they are made from butter, eggs and milk, crêpes are allowed to be consumed during the celebration by the Orthodox church. There are endless combinations to the recipes and the execution of crêpes. White flour can be replaced with buckwheat flour and milk can be switched for kefir. Also different oils can be added or substituted. Blini are served stocked with a piece of butter and topped with caviar, cheese, meat, potatoes, mushrooms, honey, berry jam or often a dollop of sour cream. The dish is supposed to represent the sun, since the holiday is about the beginning of the spring. \nIn addition to crêperies and crêpe franchises, there are crêpe manufacturers that use modern equipment to produce crêpes in bulk.\nDishes with similar appearance, taste and preparation methods exist in other parts of the world as well. In South India, a crêpe made of fermented rice batter is called a dosa, which often has savoury fillings. In Western India, a crepe made of gram flour is called Pudlaa/Poodla, with the batter consisting of vegetables and spices. Another variety is called patibola and is sweet in taste due to milk, jaggery or sugar. The injera of Ethiopian/Eritrean/Somali/Yemeni cuisine is often described as a thick crêpe. Also in Somalia, Malawaḥ (Somali: Malawax) is very similar to a crêpe. It is mostly eaten at breakfast.\n\nThe names for thin crêpes in other parts of Europe are:\n\n"}
{"id": "3243383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3243383", "title": "Cuisine in Toronto", "text": "Cuisine in Toronto\n\nThe cuisine of Toronto reflects Toronto's size and multicultural diversity. Different ethnic neighbourhoods throughout the city focus on specific cuisines, such as authentic Chinese and Vietnamese found in the city's six Chinatowns, Korean in Koreatown, Greek on The Danforth, Italian cuisine in Little Italy and Corso Italia, and Indian in Little India. Numerous other world cuisines are available throughout the city, including Portuguese, Hungarian, Japanese, and Caribbean. Toronto's large Jewish population has also ensured a variety of Jewish restaurants and delis, with varying adherence to kosher rules. In addition to ethnic cuisines, Toronto is also home to many fine dining establishments and chain restaurants ranging from fast food to casual or upscale dining.\n\nNotable chefs from or based in Toronto:\n\n\n\nA number of culinary festivals take place in Toronto each year. In addition, food tours in Toronto, like those offered by Tasty Tours Toronto or Culinary Adventure Co. are an increasingly popular way for locals and tourists to explore the food culture of the city\n\nToronto-based culinary events and festivals include:\n\nToronto has a long history of beer brewing. Eugene O'Keefe, founder of O'Keefe Brewing Company, grew up in Toronto, to which his family had emigrated from Ireland in 1832. O'Keefe was the first to produce lager beer in Canada along with the traditional ale and porter. See also: Canadian beer.\n\nThe Toronto Beer Festival is an annual event that showcases local craft beers. There are several breweries in the city, many of which are microbreweries:\nToronto's surrounding region has many wineries. The Sante Wine Festival is an annual festival which features vintages, noted winemakers and celebrity chefs.\n\nToronto is not known for a diversity of foods from street vendors, however, there are numerous take-out restaurants. There are numerous food trucks around downtown Toronto, including in front of Toronto City Hall that sell french fries, hot dogs and pre-cooked sausages. Food trucks on the University of Toronto campus offer Chinese food. Along Dundas Street West, just east of Bathurst Street, a range of international street foods are sold from shipping containers converted to food stands. The stands are known collectively as Market 707. There are also several food trucks, serving food that is more specialized, that can be found at special events.\n\nIn the summer months, ice cream and pops are sold from vendors on bicycles while ice cream trucks ply the city streets. Frozen yogurt, although not found in street vendors, are popular and increasingly so, with many shops opening recently. The coffee culture in Toronto is also highly developed, with many independent cafes especially in areas like Queen West and Kensington Market.\n\nUntil 2009, hot dogs and pre-cooked sausages were the only kind of street food allowed by law. The law sets extremely high requirements for street food vendors. However, there was an initiative to allow more varied and nutritious street food, which resulted in the introduction of Toronto a la Cart in 2009. Toronto a la Cart allowed vendors to sell halal foods such as kebab, falafel and shawarma. However, by 2010, Toronto a la Cart was deemed a failure by local politicians, due to the expenses to vendors from excessive red tape, and the program was discontinued.\n\nPerhaps one of the most iconic and distinct Toronto offerings is the peameal bacon sandwich, normally on a Kaiser. Peameal bacon was originally developed by William Davies at the St. Lawrence Market. Some notable offerings of the sandwich are Paddington's Pump, Sausage King, and Carousel Bakery; coincidentally enough, all are located at St. Lawrence Market. Further east in Leslieville is Rashers, billed as North America's only bacon sandwich shop, recently opened and sells a peameal bacon sandwich that Toronto Life describes as \"Toronto's iconic sandwich done right\".\n\nAnother distinct Toronto offering is the \"East Indian Roti\", a variation on the stuffed Roti from the West Indies. Owing to Toronto's considerable immigrant populations from both South Asia and the Caribbean, a hybrid dish has been developed, using South Asian bread and curries as stuffing, for the otherwise West Indian dish.\n\nThis type of pizza is available in certain restaurants in the Toronto area. It consists of thin-crust pizza brushed with garlic oil. Many of the restaurants that offer this type of pizza have a brush on the counter to allow customers to brush the garlic oil on their slice of pizzas themselves. This style of pizza was invented by Vietnamese immigrants who learned pizza-making from the former Italian owners that they worked for in Toronto. These immigrants were originally from the city of Hume in Vietnam, a city renown for its culinary heritage.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5706618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5706618", "title": "Daco-Roman", "text": "Daco-Roman\n\nThe term Daco-Roman describes the Romanized culture of Dacia under the rule of the Roman Empire.\n\nThe Daco-Roman mixing theory, as an origin for the Romanian people, was formulated by the earliest Romanian scholars, beginning with Dosoftei from Moldavia, in the 17th century, followed in the early 1700s in Transylvania, through the Romanian Uniate clergy and in Wallachia, by the historian Constantin Cantacuzino in his \"Istoria Țării Rumânești dintru început\" (\"History of Wallachia from the beginning\"), and continued to amplify during the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nUlpia Severina (fl. 3rd century), the wife of the Emperor Aurelian whose \"nomen Ulpius\" was widespread in all the provinces along the Danube may have been from Dacia.\n\n\n\n</div>\n"}
{"id": "2145547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2145547", "title": "Deal with the Devil", "text": "Deal with the Devil\n\nA deal with the devil (also known as compact or pact with the devil) is a cultural motif, best exemplified by the legend of Faust and the figure of Mephistopheles, as well as being elemental to many Christian traditions. According to traditional Christian belief about witchcraft, the pact is between a person and Satan or a lesser demon. The person offers their soul in exchange for diabolical favours. Those favours vary by the tale, but tend to include youth, knowledge, wealth, fame, or power.\n\nIt was also believed that some people made this type of pact just as a sign of recognizing the devil as their master, in exchange for nothing. Nevertheless, the bargain is considered a dangerous one, as the price of the Fiend's service is the wagerer's soul. The tale may have a moralizing end, with eternal damnation for the foolhardy venturer. Conversely, it may have a comic twist, in which a wily peasant outwits the devil, characteristically on a technical point. The person making the pact sometimes tries to outwit the devil, but loses in the end (e.g., man sells his soul for eternal life because he will never die to pay his end of the bargain. Immune to the death penalty, he commits murder, but is sentenced to life in prison).\n\nGreat achievements might be credited to a pact with the devil, from the numerous European Devil's Bridges to the violin virtuosity of Niccolò Paganini to the \"crossroad\" myth associated with Robert Johnson.\n\nThe \"Bargain with the devil\" constitutes motif number M210 and \"Man sells soul to devil\" motif number M211 in Stith Thompson's Motif-Index of Folk-Literature.\n\nIt was usually thought that the person who had made a pact also promised the demon to kill children or consecrate them to the devil at the moment of birth (many midwives were accused of this, due to the number of children who died at birth in the Middle Ages and Renaissance), take part in Witches Sabbaths, have sexual relations with demons, and sometimes engender children from a succubus, or an incubus in the case of women.\n\nThe pact can be oral or written. An oral pact is made by means of invocations, conjurations, or rituals to attract the demon; once the conjurer thinks the demon is present, he/she asks for the wanted favour and offers his/her soul in exchange, and no evidence is left of the pact; but according to some witch trials and inquisitions that were performed, even the oral pact left evidence, namely the diabolical mark, an indelible mark where the marked person had been touched by the devil to seal the pact. The mark could be used as a proof to determine that the pact was made. It was also believed that on the spot where the mark was left, the marked person could feel no pain. A written pact consists in the same forms of attracting the demon, but includes a written act, usually signed with the conjurer's blood (although sometimes was also alleged that the whole act had to be written with blood, meanwhile some demonologists defended the idea of using red ink instead of blood and others suggested the use of animal blood instead of human blood). Forms of these include contracts or simply signing your name into Satan's Red Book.\n\nThese acts were presented often as a proof of diabolical pacts, though critics claim there is no proof of whether they were authentic, written by insane persons believing they were actually dealing with a demon, or just were fake acts presented by the tribunals of the Inquisition. Usually the acts included strange characters that were said to be the signature of a demon, and each one had his own signature or seal. Books like \"The Lesser Key of Solomon\" (also known as \"Lemegeton Clavicula Salomonis\") give a detailed list of these signs, known as diabolical signatures.\n\nThe \"Malleus Maleficarum\" discusses several alleged instances of pacts with the Devil, especially concerning women. It was considered that all witches and warlocks had made a pact with some demon, especially with Satan.\n\nAccording to demonology, there is a specific month, day of the week, and hour to call each demon, so the invocation for a pact has to be done at the right time. Also, as each demon has a specific function, a certain demon is invoked depending on what the conjurer is going to ask.\n\nIn the narrative of the Synoptic Gospels, Jesus is offered a series of bargains by the devil, in which he is promised worldly riches and glory in exchange for serving the devil rather than God. After Jesus rejects the devil's offers, he embarks on his travels as the Messiah (see Temptations of Christ).\n\nThe predecessor of Faustus in Christian mythology is Theophilus (\"Friend of God\" or \"Beloved of God\") the unhappy and despairing cleric, disappointed in his worldly career by his bishop, who sells his soul to the devil but is redeemed by the Virgin Mary. His story appears in a Greek version of the sixth century written by a \"Eutychianus\" who claims to have been a member of the household in question.\n\nA ninth-century \"Miraculum Sancte Marie de Theophilo penitente\" inserts a Virgin as intermediary with \"diabolus\", his \"patron\", providing the prototype of a closely linked series in the Latin literature of the West.\n\nIn the tenth century, the poet nun Hroswitha of Gandersheim adapted the text of Paulus Diaconus for a narrative poem that elaborates Theophilus' essential goodness and internalizes the seduction of good and evil, in which the devil is \"magus\", a necromancer. As in her model, Theophilus receives back his contract from the devil, displays it to the congregation, and soon dies.\n\nA long poem on the subject by Gautier de Coincy (1177/8–1236), entitled \"Le miracle de Théophile: ou comment Théophile vint à la pénitence\" provided material for a thirteenth-century play by Rutebeuf, \"Le Miracle de Théophile\", where Theophilus is the central pivot in a frieze of five characters, the Virgin and the bishop flanking him on the side of good, the Jew and the devil on the side of evil.\n\n\nThe term \"a pact with the devil\" is also used metaphorically to condemn a person or persons perceived as having collaborated with an evil person or regime. An example of this is the Nazi-Jewish negotiations during the Holocaust, both positively and negatively. Under Jewish law, the principle of pikuach nefesh (\"saving life\") is an obligation to compromise one's principles in order to preserve human life. However, Rudolf Kastner was accused of negotiating with the Nazis to save a select few at the expense of the many. According to some, the term served to inflame public hatred against Kastner, culminating in his assassination.\n\n"}
{"id": "47199502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47199502", "title": "Eaten Alive Tour", "text": "Eaten Alive Tour\n\nEaten Alive Tour was a concerts tour by American singer Diana Ross from 1985 to 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "49134970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49134970", "title": "European Years", "text": "European Years\n\nEvery year, the European Union chooses to address a subject in order to encourage debate and dialogue within and between member states raising the awareness of European citizens to a specific problem.\n\nBeginning in 1983, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have chosen an annual theme of action each year, based on a European Commission proposal. European Years are an awareness campaign to educate European citizens and attract the attention of national governments of Member States to a particular issue, in order to change attitudes and behaviours at both the national and European level.\n\n"}
{"id": "53322240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53322240", "title": "Experimental Music Studios", "text": "Experimental Music Studios\n\nThe Experimental Music Studios (EMS) is an organization or center for electroacoustic and computer music, focusing on synthesis and concert performance of art music, founded by Lejaren Hiller at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1958.\n\nThe \"second electronic music studio developed in the United States\", and the \"first formally acknowledged electro-acoustic facility in the United States\" (since the Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center, \"although formally acknowledged in 1959, in 1952\") at an initial cost of $8,000, early equipment included an \"old broadcasting studio control panel\" as console, microphones, amplifiers, oscilloscopes, tape decks, and other donated items. The studios received a $30,000 grant from Magnavox in 1962, and a $53,100 grant from the National Science Foundation in 1965. Directed by Scott_A._Wyatt for forty years, it is currently directed by Eli Fieldsteel, and consists of multiple studios.\n\nAlumni include Adrian Belew, Neely Bruce, Herbert Brün, Mary Ellen Childs, Insook Choi, Donnacha Dennehy, Robert Fleisher, Mara Helmuth, Elizabeth Hinkle-Turner, Ben Johnston, Salvatore Martirano, Larry Polansky, David Rosenboom, Carla Scaletti, James Tenney, David Ward-Steinman, David Weinstein, and Olly Wilson. Composers who worked at the center between 1958 and 1975 include John Cage, Michael Colgrass, Kenneth Gaburo, Charles Hamm, and John Melby.\n\nHiller created the MUSICOMP (\"MUsic SImulator-Interpreter for COMpositional Procedures\") programming language for music composition with Robert Baker in order to create their \"Computer Cantata\" (1963) at the studios. MUSICOMP was used by Brün in generating his \"Non Sequitur VI\" (1966). Composer James Beauchamp developed the Harmonic Tone Generator (a form of additive synthesis) at the studios.\n\n"}
{"id": "12460888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12460888", "title": "Eye of the Gorgon", "text": "Eye of the Gorgon\n\nEye of the Gorgon is the third story of the British science fiction television series \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\". It forms the third and fourth episodes of the show's first series. The first episode was broadcast on the CBBC channel on 1 October 2007, with the second being broadcast on 8 October.\n\nSarah Jane and her companions investigate claims of sightings of a ghostly nun at Lavender Lawns, the local nursing home. Meanwhile, Chrissie Jackson moves into her ex-husband's house, but succeeds only in causing further problems with the family. Back at Lavender Lawns, an old lady gives Luke an ancient talisman, which is really the key to a portal in space and time. They find that a group of nuns are hiding an age-old creature, the Gorgon. When Sarah Jane refuses to give the talisman to the nuns, they kidnap Luke and Clyde and take the Gorgon and Maria to Sarah Jane's house where the Gorgon turns Maria's father to stone.\n\nHaving got what they came for, the nuns and Gorgon leave. Luke and Clyde escape from their entrapment via a secret passage. Mr Smith tells Maria and Sarah Jane that Alan is retrievable until 16:00. Luke and Clyde see the Gorgon stumble, but are unable to prevent the talisman beginning the process of joining the Gorgon Homeworld with Earth. The Gorgon - a parasite inside the Abbess - chooses Sarah Jane as its next host. Chatting with Bea reveals to Maria that the talisman can revert those turned to stone. Clyde distracts the nuns long enough that Luke grabs the talisman, disconnecting the portal. However, Sarah Jane and both boys are recaptured and locked in another room, though Sarah Jane is soon taken and tied next to the portal. Luke and Clyde escape again. The Gorgon plots to transfer itself and have Sarah Jane as its new host. The nuns blindfold Sarah Jane to prevent her from turning to stone and the Gorgon begins the transfer but Maria arrives and uses a mirror to revert the transfer and turn the Gorgon - and Abbess - to stone, freeing the nuns of mind-control. Maria disconnects the talisman and the portal shuts down forever. The talisman brings Alan back to flesh-and-blood and Chrissie leaves, reuniting with Ivan.\n\n\n\nThis was the third of eleven Sarah Jane Adventures serials to be adapted as a novel. Written by Phil Ford, the book was first published in Paperback on 1 November 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "53986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53986", "title": "Fallacy", "text": "Fallacy\n\nA fallacy is the use of invalid or otherwise faulty reasoning, or \"wrong moves\" in the construction of an argument. A fallacious argument may be deceptive by appearing to be better than it really is. Some fallacies are committed intentionally to manipulate or persuade by deception, while others are committed unintentionally due to carelessness or ignorance. The soundness of legal arguments depends on the context in which the arguments are made.\n\nFallacies are commonly divided into \"formal\" and \"informal\". A formal fallacy can be expressed neatly in a standard system of logic, such as propositional logic, while an informal fallacy originates in an error in reasoning other than an improper logical form. Arguments containing informal fallacies may be formally valid, but still fallacious.\n\nA special case is a mathematical fallacy, an intentionally invalid mathematical proof, often with the error subtle and somehow concealed. Mathematical fallacies are typically crafted and exhibited for educational purposes, usually taking the form of spurious proofs of obvious contradictions.\n\nFallacies are defects that weaken arguments. Fallacious arguments are very common and can be persuasive in common use. They may be even \"unsubstantiated assertions that are often delivered with a conviction that makes them sound as though they are proven facts\". Informal fallacies in particular are found frequently in mass media such as television and newspapers. It is important to understand what fallacies are so that one can recognize them in either one's own or others' writing. Avoiding fallacies will strengthen one's ability to produce strong arguments.\n\nIt can be difficult to evaluate whether an argument is fallacious, as arguments exist along a continuum of soundness and an argument that has several stages or parts might have some sound sections and some fallacious ones.\n\n\"Fallacious arguments usually have the deceptive appearance of being good arguments.\" Recognizing fallacies in everyday arguments may be difficult since arguments are often embedded in rhetorical patterns that obscure the logical connections between statements. Informal fallacies may also exploit the emotional, intellectual, or psychological weaknesses of the audience. Recognizing fallacies can develop reasoning skills to expose the weaker links between premises and conclusions to better discern between what appears to be true and what is true.\n\nArgumentation theory provides a different approach to understanding and classifying fallacies. In this approach, an argument is regarded as an interactive protocol between individuals that attempts to resolve their disagreements. The protocol is regulated by certain rules of interaction, so violations of these rules are fallacies.\n\nFallacies are used in place of valid reasoning to communicate a point with the intention to persuade. Examples in the mass media today include but are not limited to propaganda, advertisements, politics, newspaper editorials and opinion-based “news” shows.\n\nBecause of their variety of structure and application, fallacies are challenging to classify so as to satisfy all practitioners. Fallacies can be classified strictly by either their structure or their content, such as classifying them as formal fallacies or informal fallacies, respectively. The classification of informal fallacies may be subdivided into categories such as linguistic, relevance through omission, relevance through intrusion, and relevance through presumption. On the other hand, fallacies may be classified by the process by which they occur, such as material fallacies (content), verbal fallacies (linguistic), and again formal fallacies (error in inference). In turn, material fallacies may be placed into the more general category of informal fallacies. Yet, verbal fallacies may be placed in either formal or informal classifications; compare equivocation which is a word or phrase based ambiguity, e. g. \"he is mad\", which may refer to either him being angry or clinically insane, to the fallacy of composition which is premise and inference based ambiguity, e. g. \"this must be a good basketball team because each of its members is an outstanding player\".\n\nEven the definitions of the classes may not be unique. For example, Whately treats material fallacies as a complement to logical fallacies, which makes them synonymous to informal fallacies, while others consider them to be a subclass of informal fallacies, like mentioned above.\n\nAristotle was the first to systematize logical errors into a list, as being able to refute an opponent's thesis is one way of winning an argument. Aristotle's \"Sophistical Refutations\" (\"De Sophisticis Elenchis\") identifies thirteen fallacies. He divided them up into two major types, linguistic fallacies and non-linguistic fallacies, some depending on language and others that do not depend on language. These fallacies are called verbal fallacies and material fallacies, respectively. A material fallacy is an error in what the arguer is talking about, while a verbal fallacy is an error in how the arguer is talking. Verbal fallacies are those in which a conclusion is obtained by improper or ambiguous use of words.\nAn example of a language dependent fallacy is given as a debate as to who amongst humanity are learners: the wise or the ignorant. A language-independent fallacy is for example:\n\nRichard Whately defines a fallacy broadly as, \"any argument, or apparent argument, which professes to be decisive of the matter at hand, while in reality it is not\".\n\nWhately divided fallacies into two groups: \"logical\" and \"material\". According to Whately, logical fallacies are arguments where the conclusion does not follow from the premises. Material fallacies are not logical errors because the conclusion does follow from the premises. He then divided the logical group into two groups: purely logical and semi-logical. The semi-logical group included all of Aristotle's sophisms except:\"ignoratio elenchi\", \"petitio principii\", and \"non causa pro causa\", which are in the material group.\n\nOf other classifications of fallacies in general the most famous are those of Francis Bacon and J. S. Mill. Bacon (\"Novum Organum\", Aph. 33, 38 sqq.) divided fallacies into four Idola (Idols, i.e. False Appearances), which summarize the various kinds of mistakes to which the human intellect is prone. With these should be compared the Offendicula of Roger Bacon, contained in the Opus maius, pt. i. J. S. Mill discussed the subject in book v. of his Logic, and Jeremy Bentham's Book of Fallacies (1824) contains valuable remarks. See Rd. Whateley's Logic, bk. v.; A. de Morgan, Formal Logic (1847); A. Sidgwick, Fallacies (1883) and other textbooks.\n\nA formal fallacy, deductive fallacy, logical fallacy or \"non sequitur\" (Latin for \"it does not follow\") is a flaw in the structure of a deductive argument which renders the argument invalid. The flaw can neatly be expressed in standard system of logic. Such an argument is always considered to be wrong.\nThe presence of the formal fallacy does not imply anything about the argument's premises or its conclusion. Both may actually be true, or may even be more probable as a result of the argument; but the deductive argument is still invalid because the conclusion does not follow from the premises in the manner described.\n\nA logical form such as \"\"A\" and \"B\"\" is independent of any particular conjunction of meaningful propositions. Logical form alone can guarantee that given true premises, a true conclusion must follow. However, formal logic makes no such guarantee if any premise is false; the conclusion can be either true or false. Any formal error or logical fallacy similarly invalidates the deductive guarantee. Both the argument and all its premises must be true for a statement to be true.\n\nThe term \"logical fallacy\" is in a sense self-contradictory, because \"logic\" refers to valid reasoning, whereas a \"fallacy\" is the use of poor reasoning. Therefore, the term \"formal fallacy\" is preferred. In informal discourse however, \"logical fallacy\" is used to mean an argument which is problematic for any reason.\n\nThe term \"non sequitur\" denotes a general formal fallacy, often meaning one which does not belong to any named subclass of formal fallacies like affirming the consequent.\n\nAn ecological fallacy is committed when one draws an inference from data based on the premise that qualities observed for groups necessarily hold for individuals; for example, \"if countries with more Protestants tend to have higher suicide rates, then Protestants must be more likely to commit suicide.\"\n\nMaarten Boudry argues that formal, deductive fallacies rarely occur in real life and that arguments that would be fallacious in formally deductive terms are not necessarily so when context and prior probabilities are taken into account, thus making the argument defeasible and inductive. For a given fallacy, one must either characterize it by means of a deductive argumentation schema, which rarely applies (the first prong of the fork) or one must relax definitions and add nuance to take the actual intent and context of the argument into account (the other prong of the fork). To argue, for example, that one became nauseous after eating a mushroom because the mushroom was poisonous could be an example of the \"post hoc ergo propter hoc\" fallacy unless one were actually arguing inductively and probabilistically that it is likely that the mushroom caused the illness since some mushrooms are poisonous, it is possible to misidentify a mushroom as edible, one doesn't usually feel nauseous, etc.\n\nIn contrast to a formal fallacy, an informal fallacy originates in a reasoning error other than a flaw in the logical form of the argument. A deductive argument containing an informal fallacy may be formally valid, but still remain rationally unpersuasive. Nevertheless, informal fallacies apply to both deductive and non-deductive arguments.\n\nThough the form of the argument may be relevant, fallacies of this type are the \"types of mistakes in reasoning that arise from the mishandling of the \"content\" of the propositions constituting the argument\".\n\nA special subclass of the informal fallacies is the set of faulty generalizations, also known as inductive fallacies. Here the most important issue concerns inductive strength or methodology (for example, statistical inference). In the absence of sufficient evidence, drawing conclusions based on induction is unwarranted and fallacious. With the backing of empirical evidence, however, the conclusions may become warranted and convincing (at which point the arguments are no longer considered fallacious).\n\nFor instance, hasty generalization is making assumptions about a whole group or range of cases based on a sample that is inadequate (usually because it is atypical or just too small).\nStereotypes about people (\"frat boys are drunkards\", \"grad students are nerdy\", \"women don’t enjoy sports\", etc.) are a common example of the principle.\n\nHasty generalisation often follows a pattern such as:\n\nWhile never a valid logical deduction, if such an inference can be made on statistical grounds, it may nonetheless be convincing. This is because with enough empirical evidence, the generalization is no longer a hasty one.\n\nThe fallacies of relevance are a broad class of informal fallacies (see the navbox below), generically represented by missing the point: Presenting an argument, which may be sound, but fails to address the issue in question.\n\nAn argument from silence features an unwarranted conclusion advanced based on the absence of data.\n\nThis fallacy gets its name from the Latin phrase \"post hoc, ergo propter hoc,\" which translates as \"after this, therefore because of this.\"\n\"Definition:\" Assuming that because B comes after A, A caused B.\nSometimes one event really does cause another one that comes later—for example, if I register for a class, and my name later appears on the roll, it's true that the first event caused the one that came later. But sometimes two events that seem related in time aren't really related as cause and event. That is, correlation isn't the same thing as causation.\n\n\"Definition:\" The arguer claims that a sort of chain reaction, usually ending in some dire consequence, will take place, but in fact there is not enough evidence for that assumption.\nThe arguer asserts that if we take even one step onto the \"slippery slope,\" we will end up sliding all the way to the bottom; he or she assumes we can't stop halfway down the hill.\n\nThis error in reasoning occurs when claims are supported by unsound comparisons, hence the false analogy's informal nickname of the \"apples and oranges\" fallacy.\n\nSome of the fallacies described above may be committed in the context of measurement.\nWhere mathematical fallacies are subtle mistakes in reasoning leading to invalid mathematical proofs, measurement fallacies are unwarranted inferential leaps involved in the extrapolation of raw data to a measurement-based value claim. The ancient Greek Sophist Protagoras was one of the first thinkers to propose that humans can generate reliable measurements through his \"human-measure\" principle and the practice of \"dissoi logoi\" (arguing multiple sides of an issue). This history helps explain why measurement fallacies are informed by informal logic and argumentation theory.\n\nIncreasing availability and circulation of big data are driving proliferation of new metrics for scholarly authority, and there is lively discussion regarding the relative usefulness of such metrics for measuring the value of knowledge production in the context of an \"information tsunami\".\n\nFor example, anchoring fallacies can occur when unwarranted weight is given to data generated by metrics that the arguers themselves acknowledge is flawed. For example, limitations of the journal impact factor (JIF) are well documented, and even JIF pioneer Eugene Garfield notes, \"while citation data create new tools for analyses of research performance, it should be stressed that they supplement rather than replace other quantitative-and qualitative-indicators.\" To the extent that arguers jettison acknowledged limitations of JIF-generated data in evaluative judgments, or leave behind Garfield's \"supplement rather than replace\" caveat, they court commission of anchoring fallacies.\n\nA naturalistic fallacy can occur for example in the case of sheer quantity metrics based on the premise \"more is better\" or, in the case of developmental assessment in the field of psychology, \"higher is better.\"\n\nA false analogy occurs when claims are supported by unsound comparisons between data points. For example, the Scopus and Web of Science bibliographic databases have difficulty distinguishing between citations of scholarly work that are arms-length endorsements, ceremonial citations, or negative citations (indicating the citing author withholds endorsement of the cited work). Hence, measurement-based value claims premised on the uniform quality of all citations may be questioned on false analogy grounds.\n\nFor the next example let us consider Academic Analytics' Faculty Scholarly Productivity Index, which purports to measure overall faculty productivity, yet the tool does not capture data based on citations in books. This creates a possibility that low productivity measurements using the tool may constitute argument from silence fallacies, to the extent that such measurements are supported by the absence of book citation data.\n\nEcological fallacies can be committed when one measures scholarly productivity of a sub-group of individuals (e.g. \"Puerto Rican\" faculty) via reference to aggregate data about a larger and different group (e.g. \"Hispanic\" faculty).\n\nSometimes a speaker or writer uses a fallacy intentionally. In any context, including academic debate, a conversation among friends, political discourse, advertising, or for comedic purposes, the arguer may use fallacious reasoning to try to persuade the listener or reader, by means other than offering relevant evidence, that the conclusion is true.\n\nExamples of this include the speaker or writer:\n\n\nIn humor, errors of reasoning are used for comical purposes. Groucho Marx used fallacies of amphiboly, for instance, to make ironic statements; Gary Larson and Scott Adams employed fallacious reasoning in many of their cartoons. Wes Boyer and Samuel Stoddard have written a humorous essay teaching students how to be persuasive by means of a whole host of informal and formal fallacies.\n\nAccording to the pragmatic theory, a fallacy can in some instances be an error a fallacy, use of a heuristic (short version of an argumentation scheme) to jump to a conclusion. However, even more worryingly, in other instances it is a tactic or ploy used inappropriately in argumentation to try to get the best of a speech part unfairly. There are always two parties to an argument containing a fallacy — the perpetrator and the intended victim. The dialogue framework required to support the pragmatic theory of fallacy is built on the presumption that argumentative dialogue has both an adversarial component and a collaborative component. A dialogue has individual goals for each participant, but also collective (shared) goals that apply to all participants. A fallacy of the second kind is seen as more than simply violation of a rule of reasonable dialogue. It is also a deceptive tactic of argumentation, based on sleight-of-hand. Aristotle explicitly compared contentious reasoning to unfair fighting in athletic contest. But the roots of the pragmatic theory go back even further in history to the Sophists. The pragmatic theory finds its roots in the Aristotelian conception of a fallacy as a sophistical refutation, but also supports the view that many of the types of arguments traditionally labelled as fallacies are in fact reasonable techniques of argumentation that can be used, in many cases, to support legitimate goals of dialogue. Hence on the pragmatic approach, each case needs to analyzed individually, to determine by the textual evidence whether the argument is fallacious or reasonable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "341863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=341863", "title": "Fifth Avenue", "text": "Fifth Avenue\n\nFifth Avenue is a major thoroughfare in the borough of Manhattan in New York City. It stretches north from Washington Square Park in Greenwich Village to West 143rd Street in Harlem. It is considered one of the most expensive and elegant streets in the world.\n\nOriginally a narrower thoroughfare, much of Fifth Avenue south of Central Park was widened in 1908, sacrificing its wide sidewalks to accommodate the increasing traffic. The midtown blocks, now famously commercial, were largely a residential district until the start of the 20th century. The first commercial building on Fifth Avenue was erected by Benjamin Altman who bought the corner lot on the northeast corner of 34th Street in 1896, and demolished the \"Marble Palace\" of his arch-rival, A. T. Stewart. In 1906 his department store, B. Altman and Company, occupied the whole of its block front. The result was the creation of a high-end shopping district that attracted fashionable women and the upscale stores that wished to serve them. Lord & Taylor's flagship store is still located on Fifth Avenue near the Empire State Building and the New York Public Library.\n\nIn the 1920s, traffic towers controlled important intersections from 14th to 59th Streets.\n\nFifth Avenue originates at Washington Square Park in Greenwich Village and runs northwards through the heart of Midtown, along the eastern side of Central Park, where it forms the boundary of the Upper East Side and through Harlem, where it terminates at the Harlem River at 142nd Street. Traffic crosses the river on the Madison Avenue Bridge. Fifth Avenue serves as the dividing line for house numbering and west-east streets in Manhattan, just as Jerome Avenue does in the Bronx. It separates, for example, East 59th Street from West 59th Street.\n\nFrom this zero point for \"street\" addresses, numbers increase in both directions as one moves away from Fifth Avenue, The building lot numbering system worked similarly on the East Side as well, before Madison & Lexington Aves. were retrofitted into the street grid, confusing the building numbers. \nConfusingly, an address on a cross street cannot be predicted at the intersection of Madison Ave. or Lexington Ave., as these were added decades after the building numbers. It's as if the two retrofitted avenues are not counted for purposes of cross street addresses.\n\nThe \"most expensive street in the world\" moniker changes depending on currency fluctuations and local economic conditions from year to year. For several years starting in the mid-1990s, the shopping district between 49th and 57th Streets was ranked as having the world's most expensive retail spaces on a cost per square foot basis. In 2008, \"Forbes\" magazine ranked Fifth Avenue as being the most expensive street in the world. Some of the most coveted real estate on Fifth Avenue are the penthouses perched atop the buildings.\n\nThe American Planning Association (APA) compiled a list of \"2012 Great Places in America\" and declared Fifth Avenue to be one of the greatest streets to visit in America. This historic street has many world-renowned museums, businesses and stores, parks, luxury apartments, and historical landmarks that are reminiscent of its history and vision for the future. By 2018 portions of Fifth Avenue had large numbers of vacant store fronts for long periods, part of a citywide trend of vacant store fronts attributed to high rental costs.\n\nFifth Avenue from 142nd Street to 135th Street carries two-way traffic. Fifth Avenue carries one-way traffic southbound from 135th Street to Washington Square North. The changeover to one-way traffic south of 135th Street took place on January 14, 1966, at which time Madison Avenue was changed to one way uptown (northbound). From 124th Street to 120th Street, Fifth Avenue is cut off by Marcus Garvey Park, with southbound traffic diverted around the park via Mount Morris Park West.\n\nFifth Avenue is the traditional route for many celebratory parades in New York City; thus, it is closed to traffic on numerous Sundays in warm weather. The longest running parade is the annual St. Patrick's Day Parade. Parades held are distinct from the \"ticker-tape parades\" held on the \"Canyon of Heroes\" on lower Broadway, and the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade held on Broadway from the Upper West Side downtown to Herald Square. Fifth Avenue parades usually proceed from south to north, with the exception of the LGBT Pride March, which goes north to south to end in Greenwich Village. The Latino literary classic by New Yorker Giannina Braschi, entitled \"Empire of Dreams,\" takes place on the Puerto Rican Day Parade on Fifth Avenue.\n\nBicycling on Fifth Avenue ranges from segregated with a bike lane south of 23rd Street, to scenic along Central Park, to dangerous through Midtown with very heavy traffic during rush hours. There is no dedicated bike lane along Fifth Avenue.\n\nIn July 1987, then New York City Mayor Edward Koch proposed banning bicycling on Fifth, Park, and Madison Avenues during weekdays, but many bicyclists protested and had the ban overturned. When the trial was started on Monday, August 24, 1987 for 90 days to ban bicyclists from these three avenues from 31st Street to 59th Street between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. on weekdays, mopeds would not be banned. On Monday, August 31, 1987, a state appeals court judge halted the ban for at least a week pending a ruling after opponents against the ban brought a lawsuit.\n\nFifth Avenue is one of the few major streets in Manhattan along which streetcars did not operate. Instead, Fifth Avenue Coach offered a service more to the taste of fashionable gentlefolk, at twice the fare. Double-decker buses were operated by the Fifth Avenue Coach Company until 1953, and again by MTA Regional Bus Operations from 1976 to 1978. Today, local bus service along Fifth Avenue is provided by the MTA's M1, M2, M3, and M4 buses. The M5 and Q32 also run on Fifth Avenue in Midtown, while the M55 runs on Fifth Avenue south of 44th Street. Numerous express buses from Brooklyn, the Bronx, and Staten Island also run along Fifth Avenue.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the very rich of New York began building mansions along the stretch of Fifth Avenue between 59th Street and 96th Street, looking onto Central Park. By the early 20th century, this portion of Fifth Avenue had been nicknamed \"Millionaire's Row\", with mansions such as the Mrs. William B. Astor House and William A. Clark House. Entries to Central Park along this stretch include Inventor's Gate at 72nd Street, which gave access to the park's carriage drives, and Engineers' Gate at 90th Street, used by equestrians.\n\nA milestone change for Fifth Avenue came in 1916, when the grand corner mansion at 72nd Street and Fifth Avenue that James A. Burden II had erected in 1893 became the first private mansion on Fifth Avenue above 59th Street to be demolished to make way for a grand apartment house. The building at 907 Fifth Avenue began a trend, with its 12 stories around a central court, with two apartments to a floor. Its strong cornice above the fourth floor, just at the eaves height of its neighbors, was intended to soften its presence.\n\nIn January 1922, the city reacted to complaints about the ongoing replacement of Fifth Avenue's mansions by apartment buildings by restricting the height of future structures to , about half the height of a ten-story apartment building. Architect J. E. R. Carpenter brought suit, and won a verdict overturning the height restriction in 1923. Carpenter argued that \"the avenue would be greatly improved in appearance when deluxe apartments would replace the old-style mansions.\" Led by real estate investors Benjamin Winter, Sr. and Frederick Brown, the old mansions were quickly torn down and replaced with apartment buildings.\n\nThis area contains many notable apartment buildings, including 810 Fifth Avenue and the Park Cinq, many of them built in the 1920s by architects such as Rosario Candela and J. E. R. Carpenter. A very few post-World War II structures break the unified limestone frontage, notably the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum between 88th and 89th Streets.\n\nMuseum Mile is the name for a section of Fifth Avenue running from 82nd to 105th streets on the Upper East Side, in an area sometimes called Upper Carnegie Hill. The Mile, which contains one of the densest displays of culture in the world, is actually three blocks longer than one mile (1.6 km). Nine museums occupy the length of this section of Fifth Avenue. A ninth museum, the Museum for African Art, joined the ensemble in 2009; its museum at 110th Street, the first new museum constructed on the Mile since the Guggenheim in 1959, opened in late 2012.\n\nIn addition to other programming, the museums collaborate for the annual Museum Mile Festival to promote the museums and increase visitation. The Museum Mile Festival traditionally takes place here on the second Tuesday in June from 6 – 9 p.m. It was established in 1979 to increase public awareness of its member institutions and promote public support of the arts in New York City. The first festival was held on . The nine museums are open free that evening to the public. Several of the participating museums offer outdoor art activities for children, live music and street performers. During the event, Fifth Avenue is closed to traffic.\n\nMuseums on the mile include:\n\nFurther south, on the corner of Fifth Avenue and 70th Street, lies the Henry Clay Frick House, which houses the Frick Collection.\n\nNew York City Landmarks Preservation Commission is the New York City agency that is responsible for identifying and designating the City's landmarks and the buildings in the City's historic districts. Below is a list of historic sites on Fifth Avenue with their designation dates:\n\n\nThe National Historic Landmark program (NRHP) focuses on places of significance in American history, architecture, engineering, or culture. It recognizes structures, buildings, sites, and districts associated with important events, people, or architectural movements. Listed below is a list of National Historic Landmarks located along Fifth Avenue:\n\nIn addition, the cooperative apartment building at 2 Fifth Avenue was named a New York cultural landmark on December 12, 2013 by the Historic Landmark Preservation Center, as the last residence of former New York City Mayor Ed Koch.\n\nBetween 49th Street and 60th Street, Fifth Avenue is lined with prestigious boutiques and flagship stores and is consistently ranked among the most expensive shopping streets in the world.\n\nMany luxury goods, fashion, and sport brand boutiques are located on Fifth Avenue, including Louis Vuitton, Tiffany & Co., Gucci, Prada, Armani, Tommy Hilfiger, Cartier, Omega, Chanel, Harry Winston, Salvatore Ferragamo, Nike, Escada, Swarovski, Bvlgari, Emilio Pucci, Ermenegildo Zegna, Abercrombie & Fitch, De Beers, Emanuel Ungaro, Gap, Lindt Chocolate Shop, Henri Bendel, NBA Store, Oxxford Clothes, Microsoft Store, Sephora, Zara, and H&M. Luxury department stores include Lord & Taylor, Saks Fifth Avenue and Bergdorf Goodman. Fifth Avenue also is home to New York's fifth most photographed building, the Apple Store.\n\nMany airlines at one time had ticketing offices along Fifth Avenue. In the years leading up to 1992, the number of ticketing offices along Fifth Avenue decreased. Pan American World Airways went out of business, while Air France, Finnair, and KLM moved their ticket offices to other areas in Midtown Manhattan.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "18737988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18737988", "title": "Ginga Fukei Densetsu Sapphire", "text": "Ginga Fukei Densetsu Sapphire\n\n, commonly abbreviated to Sapphire in English, is a shoot 'em up developed by CAProduction for the PC Engine CD-ROM² System. It was published in 1995 by Hudson Soft exclusively in Japan. The story follows an all-women police force in 2092 traveling through time to intercept terrorists committing crimes across the past and future. The player takes on the role of a police officer and controls their spaceship through waves of enemies and powerful bosses.\n\nHudson forged a collaboration between CAProduction and Mika Akitaka to develop \"Sapphire\". Akitaka was known for his artistic work in the \"Galaxy Fräulein Yuna\" adventure game series and \"Gundam\" media franchise. Hudson saw potential in combining Akitaka's art style with a new shoot 'em up CAProduction was developing and cultivated a partnership. \"Sapphire\" was released on the Arcade CD-ROM² format due its enhanced graphical effects, and requires the \"Arcade Card\" RAM expansion developed by NEC to run.\n\nIn retrospective coverage, \"Sapphire\" is considered one the best PC Engine shoot 'em ups. Although the gameplay was found to be average, critics concluded that the graphics and sound were of such incredible quality that they made up for any shortcomings in the game mechanics. \"Sapphire\" was produced in low numbers at the end of the PC Engine's lifespan and subsequently became a rare collector's item. The game's value soared to hundreds of dollars and lead to counterfeiting in the mid-2000s. In 2008, the game was re-released on a compilation for the PlayStation Portable released exclusively in Japan.\n\n\"Sapphire\" is a 2D vertically scrolling shoot 'em up. The story takes place in 2092, when time travel is common across society. Terrorists have taken to stashing weapons and other contraband in the past, which leads to the formation of a police force (composed only of women) to counter the threat. The story follows the force in their efforts to chase one particularly elusive enemy through time. The game is split across five levels, each taking place in a different times and locations: A futuristic city, the Middle Ages, ancient Egypt and Japan, and finally outer space. The levels are remarkably short compared to the longer boss battles.\nThe player can pick to play as one of four women. Each has their own ship with a unique movement speed and three unique weapons. Weapons include a straight shot, wide angle shot, and a rear-facing shot, which can be powered-up by colored gems the player can pick up. When powered up, two pods fly next to the ship which can absorb enemy fire and unleash powerful shots. A limited supply of bombs are also available that deal high damage. The difficulty in \"Sapphire\" is adjustable. In addition, players can give themselves up to nine credits in the game options, and may also be granted extra lives and continues if they obtain a high score. The game supports two-player cooperative play.\n\nThe PC Engine video game console, co-developed by NEC and Hudson Soft, was known for its quality graphical adventures and shoot 'em ups. Although shoot 'em ups were prominent in the late 1980s, popular interest shifted to fighting games in the wake of 's release in the early 1990s. In order to compete with the Super NES and Mega Drive, NEC developed a RAM expansion for the PC Engine called the \"Arcade Card\". The extra 2.25 MB of memory was large and allowed for higher quality ports of fighting games. Despite the waning popularity of shoot 'em ups, Hudson commissioned CAProduction to develop one as what would become the final Arcade Card game.\n\nCAProduction were working on a third entry in the \"Thunder\" trilogy following \"Gate of Thunder\" (1992) and \"Lords of Thunder\" (1993) when they were approached by Hudson. Concurrently, Hudson saw the popularity of the bishōjo adventure game series \"Galaxy Fräulein Yuna\" and saw potential at combining the two. The \"Galaxy Fräulein Yuna\" series was written and designed by Mika Akitaka, an artist known for his mecha girl designs in the \"Gundam\" media franchise. The first \"Galaxy Fräulein Yuna\" game was a pure visual novel, and while the second game added action elements like dungeon crawling and turn-based card battles, Akitaka had always wanted to develop a shoot 'em up. Hudson brought Akitaka onboard to work with CAProduction to develop \"Sapphire\" as an original; it was unrelated to the story in his \"Galaxy Fräulein Yuna\" games. Hudson also sourced the studio J.C.Staff for animation work.\n\n\"Sapphire\" was published by Hudson and released on 24 November 1995. The game was printed using the Arcade CD-ROM² format which requires the Arcade Card RAM expansion for enhanced graphics. The release came late in the PC Engine's lifespan and subsequently was printed in low numbers. As a result, \"Sapphire\" became a rare collector's item, selling for high prices in the video game collecting market. E. Kozo of \"Hardcore Gamer\" said used copies were obtainable for about in 2008, not including the \"hundreds of dollars worth of 20-year-old hardware from Japan\" needed to play it. A prospective player needs a Japanese region PC Engine with a CD-ROM drive and an Arcade Card to play. In 2015, \"Eurogamer\" noted that copies were selling for around . The game's notorious rarity also made it a popular target for counterfeiting around 2005. \"Eurogamer\" said that the counterfeits were impressive and only identifiable under incredible scrutiny. They were convincing enough to become valued at over £100 and influenced prices of original \"Sapphire\" copies. Due to its rarity and specific hardware requirements, few gamers have played \"Sapphire\". Kurt Kalata of \"Hardcore Gaming 101\" called it one of the \"holy grails\" of PC Engine collecting.\n\nOn 31 July 2008, Hudson Soft released a compilation of the first two \"Galaxy Fräulein Yuna\" games and \"Sapphire\" on the PlayStation Portable in Japan. The compilation is titled and was released as part of the \"PC Engine Best Collection\" series. This release adds in options to change the aspect ratios for all three games. This includes the original aspect ratio which fills half the screen, a slightly vertically stretched ratio which covers most of the screen, and a full screen mode. The collection also features an art gallery with Akitaka's concept art for the games and some original artwork.\n\nIn retrospective coverage, both Kurt Kalata of \"Hardcore Gaming 101\" and E. Kozo of \"Hardcore Gamer\" lauded \"Sapphire\" as one of the greatest PC Engine shoot 'em ups. Kalata described it as \"the ultimate PC Engine shooter...a showpiece for what the system could do\" while Kozo called it \"one of the best shooters ever made\". In his review, Kalata found the gameplay mediocre and non-innovative but said the strengths lied in the game's graphics and sounds. He goes on to explain that some of \"Sapphire\"'s 2D sprites were pre-rendered at a high quality and animated so well that they seemed like 3D polygons. Kalata also praised the other graphical effects such as digitized holograms, morphing effects, and scaling effects. In the same vein, Kozo commended the game's parallax scrolling and lighting effects. He concluded that \"\"Sapphire\"'s style and action make up for any of its shortcomings\".\n\nBoth Kalata and Kozo praised the PlayStation Portable compilation \"Ginga Ojousama Densetsu Collection\" for giving gamers a more accessible way to play the game. Reviewing the re-release, Kozo thought the compilation had a great value since original \"Sapphire\" copies were worth ten times its price. He also praised the bonus art content but criticized the poorly implemented aspect ratio options. He felt the original aspect ratio was too small, the full screen ratio was too stretched, and felt the game was lacking a proper vertical display option. He concluded that the re-release of \"Sapphire\" was a \"top notch example of a quality game withstanding the test of time.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "10028074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10028074", "title": "Hermes (Marvel Comics)", "text": "Hermes (Marvel Comics)\n\nHermes is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Hermes is the Olympian God of transitions and boundaries in Greek religion and mythology. Hermes first appeared in \"Thor\" #129 and was adapted by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.\n\nHermes is the herald of Zeus in the Olympian pantheon, and is also the god of commerce, travel, and thieves. Zeus is Hermes's father. Hermes was born on Mount Cyllene, Arcadia, in ancient Greece.\n\nWhen Hermes first appeared, he was seen departing Olympus on an unknown mission. Alongside his fellow Olympians, he attacked the Eternals at the behest of Zeus and Odin. During this fight, Hermes battled Makkari. Hermes's role as the messenger of the goddesses involved in the creation of the Young Gods was later revealed. He was also present when Zeus granted power to Thor to help resurrect the Asgardian gods. Hermes next appointed Jules Keene the god of luck.\n\nWhen Hercules was gravely wounded fighting the Masters of Evil, Hermes abducted the injured Hercules from the New York hospital he was admitted to. Zeus blamed the Avengers for Hercules's condition, and ordered the Olympians to attack the Avengers. Hermes battled the Avengers at Zeus's behest, but was then forbidden to set foot on Earth by Zeus. Some time later, Hermes brought Cupid a message from Venus. Later Hermes brought a message to Ares to try to convince him to return to Olympus during the attack by the Japanese God of Evil Amatsu-Mikaboshi.\n\nFollowing the \"Fear Itself\" storyline, Hermes comes in on Zeus (who is in the form of Storm in his latest mating with mortal women) telling him that Hercules had broken into Ares' weapons stockade and taken some of the weapons there.\n\nHermes possesses the typical powers of an Olympian; superhuman strength, durability, stamina, agility, and reflexes. He is immortal as well as resistant to all terrestrial diseases. Hermes can run and fly at speeds exceeding those of any other Olympian god or goddess.\n\nHermes is an extraordinary hand-to-hand combatant, especially at wrestling. He is also an expert thief, skilled musician, and is adept at any pursuit requiring swiftness and dexterity.\n\nHermes is usually armed with a short sword, forged by Hephaestus. His half-brother Apollo also created a caduceus for him, a magical device capable of controlling lesser beings, conducting ghosts, and turning objects into gold.\n\nIn one alternate future, depicted in \"Hercules\" Vol. 2 #1-4, Hermes and the other Olympians leave Olympus in the 23rd century, leaving Hercules there to father a new race of gods.\n"}
{"id": "19068504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19068504", "title": "Indigenous religious beliefs of the Tagbanwa people", "text": "Indigenous religious beliefs of the Tagbanwa people\n\nThe indigenous religious beliefs of the Tagbanwa people includes the religious beliefs, mythology and superstitions that has shaped the Tagbanwa way of life. It shares certain similarities with that of other ethnic groups in the Philippines, such as in the belief in heaven, hell and the human soul.\n\nThe diwatas control the rain, and they are believed to be the creator of the world and of the human beings. They live where the tree trunks that hold up the \"Langit\" (\"an infinitely high canopy\"), which is the visible celestial region. \n\n\n\n\nA Tagbanwa is believed to have six souls in all. A \"true soul\" called \"kiyarulwa\", and five secondary souls called the \"payu\". The \"kiyarulwa\" is a gift of Mangindusa to a child emerging from the mother's womb, while the other souls appear only during the \"lambay\" ritual for the child upon reaching one month or two. \"Lambay\" is any ceremony, which is directly addressed to Mangindusa. These other souls are found at the extremities of the hands and feet, and on top of the head. When a person dies the \"kiyarulwa\" wanders to four possible destinations. If the cause of death is epidemic or sickness, then the soul will go to the \"Kiyabusan\", they become known as the \"salakap\". If a person from poisoning or violence the souls goes to inhabit the \"Dibuwat\". Those who died because their souls were caught by the environmental or evil spirits - their soul will transform into \"biyaladbad\" and will inhabit the environment. If a person dies of natural death, the souls travels to \"Basad\", the underworld, and becomes the \"tiladmanin\".\n\nWhen a Tagbanwa dies, his or her soul remains on earth for seven days, until the \"kapupusan\" or rites for the dead are finished. For seven days, the soul lingers on in the grave at daytime, but returns to its former house at night to observe the behavior of those left behind.\n\nIn the its journey to the underworld, the soul encounters several places. These include:\nIn \"Basad\", the spirits of the dead live a life that mirrors exactly that of the living. But everything is the reverse of what happens in the world of living. As the sun rises on earth, it goes down in \"Basad\" or planting time on earth is harvest time in \"Basad\".\n\nThe \"lambay\" is held two times a year. It is observed first in January, and involves ritual appears to the deities for days of sunshine and winds that sufficiently dry the forests and prepare them for clearing and planting. A second one is held in May, when the people ask for moderate rains that will make their upland rice grows. \n\nThere are two rituals, which seeks protection for all Tagbanwa wherever they may be, from the feared \"salakap\", the spirits of epidemic, sickness and death. These two rituals are the \"pagbuyis\" and the \"runsay\". \nThe \"pagbuyis\" is performed three times a year. The first is in November, and second in December. The third is when the moon can be seen during the daytime, called \"magkaaldawan\". \nThe \"runsay\" is described as the most dramatic of all Tagbanwa rituals. It is observed only once a year, at nighttime, on the fourth day after the full moon of December. It takes place on the beach near the mouth of the Aborlan River. The \"runsay\", like the \"pagbuyis\", is held to ask for protection against epidemic. The ritual begins at dusk and ends at dawn. \nThere are five distinct phases in the \"runsay\". These include:\n\nAt the center of the \"diwata\" rituals is the babaylan, who has the responsibility of selecting the areas for a new clearing, placating the spirits of the surroundings, providing magical charms for hunters and fishers, and curing all kinds of ailments. While any adult can invoke the spirits of the dead in other Tagbanwa rituals, only the babaylan can summon them in the \"pagdiwata\".\n\nThe \"bilang\" ceremony is the all-important ritual for the dead. It takes place after the rice harvest, a time when \"tabad\" becomes plentiful. Every family is expected to host one or more \"bilang\" rituals. The \"bilang\" rituals begin with the rite of divination, to determine which among the spirit relatives has caused a person's illness. This makes use of the babaylan, who performs the brief rite of \"panawag\" near the grave of the dead relative by making offerings of the betel quids and ceremonial cigarettes, and promises \"tabad\" should the ill become well. The celebrants together with the offerings prepare a jar of \"tabad\" with sipping reeds. The \"bilang\" ceremony involves the \"paurut\" (invocation) of as many spirit relatives as possible through incantation, and the burning of the \"parina\" (incense) whose pleasant smells attract the deities and spirits of the dead. The gongs are played as the \"paurut\" is being performed, and their music is an added incentive for the spirit to descend on the gathering. After the ritual offering of the articles have been laid out on the mat, the food is distributed to the children first, and then to the guests; then the \"bilang\" mat is removed. The communal drinking of \"tabad\" through the reed straws follows, a very festive social event that lasts through the night.\n"}
{"id": "442306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=442306", "title": "Jafa", "text": "Jafa\n\nJafa is a slang term (sometimes pejorative) for a resident of Auckland, New Zealand. It is the acronym for \"Just Another Fucking Aucklander\". This prejudice against Aucklanders started to appear within the last four decades, and is considered to be representative of the boorishness of Aucklanders, or the envy of the rest of New Zealand, depending on the perspective. The term is also misspelled as Jaffa, a chocolate confection from Dunedin, and is often used in sentences which render the original term useless in the grammatical sense. The term has wider currency than the earlier derogatory term \"Rangitoto Yank\". A variant is Jaffa for \"Just Another Fuckwit From Auckland\".\n\nThe word Jafa often conveys dislike for Aucklanders. While only a small part of New Zealand geographically, Auckland makes up % of the population of New Zealand, by far the largest city, and has greater economic power (mainly through the centralisation of many companies) than its population share would indicate.\n\nOther factors in the use of the word:\n\n\n\n\n\nIt has been claimed in one 2007 tourist article that in the United Kingdom, the term JAFA has also come to stand for \"Just Another F***ing Australian\", apparently in reference to the hard drinking and allegedly arrogant behaviour of many travelling Australians.\n\nThe acronym is also used, particularly by Australian Antarctic personnel, for \"Just Another F***ing Academic\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28915249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28915249", "title": "Jikey", "text": "Jikey\n\nJikey (Jawi: جيكيي) is a traditional Malay dance drama that is popular in Kedah and Perlis, Malaysia. The dance drama is known as Yike in Cambodia and Likay in Thailand and popular in southern provinces of Satun and Phuket. It is believed to have originated from the singing of zikir among the Malays before it developed into a secular theatre after the late 19th century. The Jikey performance also has strong influence from other Malay performing arts like Mak Yong, Hadrah, Bangsawan and Mek Mulung.\n\nThe main elements of Jikey are improvised dialogue, music and dance, and local legends formed the main repertoire with considerable emphasis placed on slapstick comedy. The Jikey music consists of both instrumental and singing. The main characters are comedians, king and warriors, and a form of \"leitmotif\" is involved as various characters in the drama are identified with specific elements in the music.\n\nA complete theatrical orchestra for Jikey includes rebana (with no jingles) in large, medium and small sizes; one tambourine; one hanging, knobbed gong, five or more pairs of \"cerek\", one pair of \"kesi\", an oboe (\"serunai\" for Malay or \"pi\" for Thai). However, typical ensembles consists only of a violin, 3 rebana and 2 \"cerek\" or bamboo stampers.\n"}
{"id": "35358895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35358895", "title": "Kaijudo", "text": "Kaijudo\n\nKaijudo is an American animated action/adventure TV series which is related to the \"Kaijudo\" collectible card game issued by Wizards of the Coast, a subsidiary of Hasbro since 1999. It is a re-imagining of the widely successful \"Duel Masters\" franchise. It is produced by Hasbro Studios, animated by Moi Animation in South Korea, and developed by Henry Gilroy and Andrew R. Robinson for Wizards of the Coast. The series, partly owned by Hasbro, aired on the Hub Network in the United States from June 2, 2012 to December 28, 2013. The show's first season is titled \"Kaijudo: Rise of the Duel Masters\". The second season, premiered on June 21, 2013 on Hub Network, is titled \"Kaijudo: Clash of the Duel Masters\". \n\nOn August 29, 2014, the series was cancelled after two seasons. The official website closed on December 3, 2014. \n\nThe series follows the adventures of a young boy named Ray Okamoto from San Campion who possesses the rare ability to summon and duel alongside fantastical creatures from a parallel dimension. Ray and his two best friends Allie and Gabe join the ranks of the mysterious Duel Masters to ensure the survival of both races.\n\nShout! Factory began releasing the series in December 2012. United Kingdom-based Clear Vision has rights for the first two seasons through Region 2, including most of Western Europe and the Middle East.\n\nA trading card game which the series is associated with was released on June 26, 2012.\n"}
{"id": "8649012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8649012", "title": "Layered clothing", "text": "Layered clothing\n\nLayered clothing is a term describing a way of dressing using many garments that are worn on top of each other. Some of the layers have different, largely non-overlapping, functions. Using more or fewer layers, or replacing one layer but not others, allows for flexible clothing to match the needs of each situation. Two thin layers can be warmer yet lighter than one thick layer, because the air trapped between layers serves as thermal insulation.\nLayered clothing is particularly relevant in cold climates, where clothing must at the same time transfer moisture, provide warmth, and protect from wind and rain. In a hot and dry climate, clothes have very different functional requirements: they must block the radiation from the Sun, and allow for sufficient air circulation. Therefore, layered clothing in the sense used in this article is largely irrelevant to hot and dry climates. The wicking layer moves the sweat from your body, the purpose of this is it will not freeze the sweat because it is getting absorbed by the other layers.\n\nOutdoor and sports wear manufacturers favor layered clothing because, among other reasons, it allows them to offer so-called \"technical\" or \"functional\" clothes which are optimized for the particular demands of a specific layer. Such clothes are often made of advanced synthetic materials and also wool, and can be expensive.\n\nUsually at least three layers are identified as follows:\n\n\nOften clothes combine two adjacent layers, as in the case of warm undergarments that provide both comfort and insulation.\n\nThe purpose of the inner layer is to draw the sweat away from the skin to the next layers, which makes the wearer feel warmer and more comfortable. The transfer of moisture happens due to capillary action, sometimes called wicking. The used materials are called \"wicking materials\". When moisture has moved from the skin into (nonabsorbent) clothing, it has more surface area and will evaporate faster. If a piece of clothing does not transfer moisture well, it is not strictly an inner layer garment at all, but simply a comfortable mid-layer garment.\n\n\nThe mid layer is needed in cold weather to provide additional insulation. The use of multiple thin layers facilitates adjustment of warmth. The mid layer should be more loose-fitting than the inner layer, as this leaves insulating air between the layers. However, if best possible moisture transfer is desired, too great a gap between any adjacent layers of clothing may reduce the moisture transfer by capillary action from one piece of clothing to another. On the other hand, very loose-fitting layers can allow more removal of moisture (and heat) via air circulation.\n\n\nThe outermost clothes are called the shell layer, but only if they block wind or water, or have good mechanical strength. Ideally the shell layer lets moisture through to the outside (that is, is breathable), while not letting wind and water pass through from the outside to the inside. While this is enabled to some degree by modern materials, even the best and most expensive materials involve a slight trade-off between breathability and water- and wind resistance.\n\nIf heavy sweating is expected, one should avoid wearing any shell layer garments unless their protective properties are essential. For example, when one is jogging, no traditional shell layer is likely to be able to transfer enough moisture to keep the wearer feeling dry. But as more air permeable membranes emerge, when combined with pit zips the amount of moisture being transferred outwards would be sufficient for cardiovascular pursuits. As a general rule, one should consider using sufficiently warm mid layer clothes.\n\nBoth \"soft\" and \"hard\" shell jackets and layers exist. Hard shells are commonly woven fabric and do not rip. Soft shell may rip easier, but are more flexible. \n\n\nAs the intensity of exercise or environmental conditions change, the amount or quality of layers worn should be changed. In particular, if clothes become wet from sweating during heavy exercise, they can be much too cold during the following period of rest. Below are two basic strategies for this problem.\n\nSome clothes feature adjustable vents, such as below armpits. The positioning and design of the vents allow for area specific cooling while only marginally reducing exterior moisture resistance.\n\nRemoving the shell layer during heavy exercise can pose problems if the clothes underneath lack required mechanical strength or waterproofing. In such situations, using a mid layer with enough of the required shell layer properties can be a good choice.\n\nCombining different garments in layers can be used to create a variety of outfits. This provides similar practical benefits for practical layering, in that the wearer can shed layers according to changes in temperature, and is also a way of making use of clothing to produce different looks and mix colors in various ways. It saves money for the consumer, because they can create a new look by swapping out one piece of the outfit to achieve a totally new look.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42633432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42633432", "title": "Learning artifact (education)", "text": "Learning artifact (education)\n\nIn educational psychology , a learning artifact (or educational artifact) is an object created by students during the course of instruction. To be considered an artifact, an object needs to be lasting, durable, public, and materially present. Under the constructionist theory of educational psychology, the concept of making knowledge visible is a central component. The creation of material artifacts is a technique used to allow students to display their knowledge in a public forum (usually the classroom). Artifacts can be in the form of paintings, drawings, sculptures, models, or anything else that is not erased after completion.\n\nStudents create evocative objects for the purpose of making their knowledge visible. The creation and display of these artifacts allow students opportunities for engagement, revision and feedback, all hallmarks of quality learning design.\n\nCognitive artifact is a term used to describe a physical representation of a conceptual idea, such as an experience, a memory, a thought, or a feeling. Cognitive artifacts can take on different forms, and are intended to aid or enhance one’s cognitive abilities. Because a cognitive artifact is a representation of a conceptual idea, the artifact may be interpreted in different ways. Cognitive artifacts use various mediums that often differ from the medium in which the situation initially occurred. These artifacts focus on the essentials, disregarding any irrelevant material in order to simplify the situation and elicit the most critical information from a particular scenario.\n"}
{"id": "16102540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16102540", "title": "Libertarian anarchism", "text": "Libertarian anarchism\n\nLibertarian anarchism may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "9930443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9930443", "title": "Lone Wolf (character)", "text": "Lone Wolf (character)\n\nThe Lone Wolf is the nickname of the fictional character Michael Lanyard, a jewel thief turned private detective in a series of novels written by Louis Joseph Vance (1879–1933). A large number of movies based on and inspired by the books have been made. The character also appeared briefly on radio and television.\n\n\n\n\nEric Blore played Jamison (sometimes spelt \"Jameson\"), the Lone Wolf's butler and assistant, in eleven of the movies, starting with \"The Lone Wolf Strikes\" and ending with \"The Lone Wolf in London\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5489628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5489628", "title": "Ludus Magnus", "text": "Ludus Magnus\n\nThe Ludus Magnus (also known as the Great Gladiatorial Training School) was the largest of the gladiatorial schools in Rome. It was built by the emperor Domitian (r. 81-96 C.E.) in the late first century C.E., alongside other building projects undertaken by him such as three other gladiatorial schools across the Roman Empire. As far as location goes, the training school is situated directly east of the Colosseum in the valley between the Esquiline and the Caelian hills, an area already occupied by Republican and Augustan structures. While there are remains that are visible today, they belong to a reconstruction that took place under the emperor Trajan (r. 98-117) where the Ludus plane was raised by about 1.5 metres (4 ft 11 in). The Ludus Magnus was essentially a gladiatorial arena where gladiators from across the Roman Empire would live, eat, and practice while undergoing gladiatorial training in preparation for fighting at the gladiatorial games held at the Colosseum.\n\nThe Ludus Magnus was situated directly to the east of the Colosseum in order to provide gladiators with accessibility to their main fighting venue. Though it is not aligned axially to the Colosseum, it does lay just north of it along the square of the Colosseum between the ancient Via Labiciana and Via Di S. Giovanni. The Ludus Magnus was located here in order to facilitate connections between those two buildings, through an underground gallery linking the two buildings. A path with an entrance 2.17 m wide which began underneath the amphitheater and reached the Ludus at its southwestern corner.\n\nThe Ludus Magnus functioned as the leading gladiatorial school in Rome. The Romans used the same word \"ludi\" to denote gladiatorial games, as well as the schools which saw to the practice of such games. It was meant to be a place for gladiators from around the world to practice fighting techniques, such as training for venatio. Upon arriving to the \"ludus\", gladiators would be separated based on their fighting 'specialty' and then assigned a \"doctor\" for their specialty, as well as placed under the general oversight of a \"lanista\". It is here that the gladiators would eat, train, and sleep on a regular basis. The training portion of their days was extensive but also public. As was customary, the Romans often watched the gladiators train as we know that the seating provided at this ludus accommodated approximately 3,000 spectators. This effectively served as a sort of precursor to the games, a taste of what was to come at the \"Ludi Romani\".\n\nThe Ludus Magnus was constructed under the reign of emperor Domitian during the late first century C.E. He also erected three other ludi around the same time (such as the Dacian, Gallic, and \"Matutinus\" or Morning School), though the Ludus Magnus was the largest of the four training schools that Domitian erected in the area surrounding the Colosseum.The Ludus Magnus underwent various reconstructions under succeeding emperors during the Roman Empire. For instance, changes were undertaken under Trajan so that the pavement level was raised by 1.4 m providing us with the structure that can be seen today. Hadrian also added certain refinements as the structure suffered fire damange in the late second century. And then Caracalla also saw to some repairs and modifications during his reign, with other additions occurring under unclear patronage throughout the active life of the Ludus Magnus.\n\nIn late antiquity the gladiatorial school, along with the Colosseum, largely went out of use due to a lack of need in society for gladiatorial games as a form of entertainment when gladiatorial combat was outlawed in the fifth century C.E. The building was abandoned in the sixth century when the space was then used to house a small cemetery. By the middle of the sixth century, the area was no longer cared for and numerous churches were built, as the population continued to decrease.\n\nThe structural remains were founded in 1937 amidst building operations were taking place near the Colosseum, though excavations were not carried out until 1957-61. Situated between the Via Labicana and Via di S. Giovanni in Laterano, excavations were carried out for less than half of the overall building. However, in light of the educated assumption that the structure was largely symmetrical and additional help from the marble plan, a restored plan for the entire structure has been postulated.\n\nAccess points would have been located along the Via Labicana whereby one descended steps to the level of the arena floor below street level.\n\nThere was a central courtyard which served as arena space and was surrounded by Tuscan style colonnades on all four sides, with fountains flanking each corner.\n\nAt the centre of the Ludus Magnus there was an ellipsoidal arena in which the gladiators practiced, circumscribed by steps of a small cavea, probably reserved for a limited number of spectators.\n\nThe size of the arena was relatively average (though slightly smaller than the Colosseum's) sitting at roughly 63 m long x 42 m wide. The cavea surrounding the arena has been calculated to encompass nine gradus, with a support system of concrete vaults over brick-faced concrete walls. In order to reach the cavea one would access a small staircase. Then there were ceremonial entrances located along the long entrance with smaller boxes located on the small axis. There were also underground chambers which were likely used for storage purposes. The foundation of the cavea was also elevated 2.75 m above the arena with a rectangular portico surrounding it with columns in two storeys, the lower in unfluted travertine Tuscan style and presumably Ionic above with no surviving capitals to confirm and the Ionic column features themselves belonging to a later repair than original construction. Throughout the sides of the portico were openings to various small rectangular chambers which would have served as living quarters for the gladiators, as well as stairs leading up to the second storey. We also have evidence of a second row of small spaces located behind the rectangular chambers along the north and south sides with access outwards to the street that were likely used as shops in antiquity.\nIn the northwest corner of the portico, one of the four small, triangular fountains has been restored. It lies in the spaces between the curved wall of the cavea and the colonnade. A cement block remained between two brick walls, converging at an acute angle.A large part of the brickwork structures were also originally covered by marble slabs that were later removed.\n\nWhile there is a lack of remains for the upper storeys, it has been assumed that the second storey replicated the plan of the first in general layout and usage, while the third storey likely had an open gallery in light of the portico. It has also been postulated that there was a large axial hall encompassed on all three sides by colonnades with five entrances serving as a sacrarium or armamentarium.\n\nAs noted in textual sources and still undergoing inconclusive excavations carried out in relation to the Colosseum, there was an underground passage that connected the gladiatorial school with the Flavian amphitheater. This corridor was likely paralleled above the ground as well though it remains speculation.\n\nSome of the ancient sources which survive to us are Epicetus who describes some of the harsh conditions the gladiators of a \"ludus\" often faced. Roman poet Juvenal also enlightens us about the separate quarters present in a \"ludus.\" And Roman orator Quintilian further describes the exchange of blows of gladiators in practice.\n\nThe archaeological remains of the Ludus Magnus represent roughly less than half of the practice arena and barracks, while the rest of the structure remains hidden under street level and other buildings. What remains is largely the product of a rebuilding endeavor taken on by the emperor Trajan in the early second century C.E. According to Claridge, under Trajan the seating area and ground level were elevated while the arena level remaining in tact. We also know of half of the plan from a fragment that has survived from the Severan Marble Plan (early third century C.E.), although breakage and erosion has led decreased its informative value. There were also great doubts about where it was located in the general topography of ancient Rome, so that it can now be related to a building in Piazza Iside, still visible.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26878766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26878766", "title": "Malapa Fossil Site, Cradle of Humankind", "text": "Malapa Fossil Site, Cradle of Humankind\n\nMalapa is a fossil-bearing cave located about northeast of the well known South African hominid-bearing sites of Sterkfontein and Swartkrans and about north-northwest of Johannesburg, South Africa. It is situated within the Cradle of Humankind World Heritage Site.\nIn March 2008, Lee Berger of the University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa, undertook an exploration project in the Cradle of Humankind World Heritage site outside of Johannesburg, in order to map the known caves identified by him and his colleagues over the past several decades, and to place known fossil sites onto Google Earth so that information could be shared with colleagues. The area is important as nearly a third of the entire evidence for human origins in Africa comes from just a few sites in this region, and the region is arguably one of the most explored areas in Africa for evidence of human origins, having been investigated continuously since the first discoveries were made there in 1935.\n\nAt the beginning of this project, there were approximately 130 known cave sites in the region and around twenty fossil deposits. By July 2008, the pattern of cave distribution seen on Google Earth by Berger as well as the recognition of what these deposits looked like from satellites and significant amounts of searching on the ground had led Berger to discover almost 500 caves that scientists had not plotted or identified previously. Included in this were more than 25 fossil sites that had been unknown to science, all in probably the most explored region in Africa. Berger brought in geologist Paul Dirks, at that time Head of the School of GeoSciences at the University of the Witwatersrand, to lead the geological aspects of this exploratory project.\n\nIn late July, Berger noted in Google Earth a series of caves running along a fault that pointed to a blank area in the region, an area that appeared to have clusters of trees that typically marked cave deposits. On 1 August he dropped off Dirks to map the recognized cave system and proceeded into the uninvestigated area with his dog Tau, a Rhodesian Ridgeback who accompanied him on almost all his explorations. Almost immediately he discovered a rich fossil site that was unknown to science, in the vicinity of more than three dozen caves that had been apparently unrecognized by previous researchers.\nOn 15 August, Berger returned to the site with his post-doctoral student, Dr. Job Kibii and his 9-year-old son Matthew. Within minutes, Matthew Berger had discovered the first remains of early human ancestors - a clavicle, or collar bone. On the opposite side of the block, Berger quickly discovered a jawbone with a canine tooth of a hominid. The find was later identified as part of a partial skeleton of a juvenile hominid, around 9 – 13 years of age.\n\nOn 4 September 2008, Berger returned to the site with more than a dozen colleagues, where Berger discovered a second partial skeleton of an adult female.\n\nThe site has produced arguably one of the most complete assemblages of early human ancestors ever found, including the most complete skeletons of early hominids yet discovered, and by far the most complete remains of any hominid dating to around 2 million years ago. Over 200 elements have been recovered to date. The partial skeletons are initially described in two papers in the journal \"Science\" by Berger and colleagues as a new species of early human ancestor called \"Australopithecus sediba\" (sediba meaning natural spring or well in Sotho).\n\nIn addition to the fossils revealed initially, rocks collected from the site have been examined with CT scans and contain even more bones, suggesting that the type specimen, Karabo, will become even more complete.\n\nThe species is suggested by the authors to be a good candidate for being the transitional species between the southern African ape-man \"Australopithecus africanus\" (the Taung Child, Mrs. Ples) and either \"Homo habilis\" or even a direct ancestor of \"Homo erectus\" (Turkana boy, Java man, Peking man). The species has long arms, like an ape, short powerful hands, a very advanced pelvis, and long legs capable of striding and possibly running like a human.\n\nThe skeletons were found among the articulated skeletons of a sabre-toothed cat, antelopes and even mice and hares.\n\nThe fossils are preserved in a hard, concrete-like substance known as calcified clastic sediments that formed at the bottom of what appears to be a shallow underground lake or pool that was possibly as much as underground at the time. It is not known how these skeletons came to be in this pool, but it appears that they may have taken a significant fall. No carnivores or scavengers reached their bodies.\n\nThe fossil was dated using a combination of paleomagnetism and uranium-lead (U-Pb) dating by Andy Herries (La Trobe University, Australia), Robyn Pickering (University of Melbourne, Australia) and Jan Kramers (University of Johannesburg, South Africa). U-Pb dating of the underlying flowstone indicates that the fossils are not older than 2.0 million years old. The occurrence of species of animal that became extinct ~1.5 million years ago indicate the deposit is not younger than 1.5 million years old. The sediments have a 'normal' magnetic polarity, and the only major period between 2.0 and 1.5 million years ago when this occurred was the Olduvai sub-Chron between 1.95 and 1.78 million years ago, and so in 2010 the fossil was suggested to be around 1.95 million years old based on the transitional nature of some of the sediments and the stratigraphy at the site. In 2011 a more accurate date of the fossils was established when a capping flowstone was too old to enable the normal polarity deposits to date to the Olduvai event. The deposits were instead correlated to a ~3000 year long period centred at around 1.977 million years ago and known as the Pre-Olduvai event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5323671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5323671", "title": "Missorium of Theodosius I", "text": "Missorium of Theodosius I\n\nThe Missorium of Theodosius I is a large ceremonial silver dish preserved in the Real Academia de la Historia, in Madrid, Spain. It was probably made in Constantinople for the tenth anniversary (decennalia) in 388 of the reign of the Emperor Theodosius I, the last Emperor to rule both the Eastern and Western Empires. It is one of the best surviving examples of Late Antique Imperial imagery and one of the finest examples of late Roman goldsmith work. It is the largest and most elaborate, and the most famous, of the 19 surviving vessels believed to represent \"largitio\" (\"largesse\") or a \"ceremonial gift given by the emperor to a civil or military official\".\n\nThe dish shows a hieratic image of the Emperor framed in an arcade, giving a document contained in a diptych, possibly a letter of appointment, to a much smaller senior official, flanked by his two co-emperors, Valentinian II and his own son Arcadius, and bodyguards who can be identified by their hairstyles, torcs and shields as belonging to the German imperial bodyguard. The official receives the document with hands covered by his chlamys (cloak).\n\nThis iconography is related to that known as the \"Traditio legis\", which was transferred from Late Antique Imperial art to Christian art, eventually developing into the iconic \"Christ in Majesty\". Theodosius is shown far larger than the other figures, as is common in the hieratic Late Antique style, despite the fact that Valentinian II had been an Emperor for longer (he in turn is significantly larger than Arcadius or the unknown official). The three emperors have haloes which is usual at this period. Although all were Christians, there are no specific Christian elements in the iconography, and the lower zone contains specifically pagan imagery, as some Late Antique Christian art continued to do.\nTheir clothing is early Byzantine dress consistent with other Imperial portraits of the period. The two co-emperors have decorated \"tablions\" (patches showing rank attached to their main garment) at their knees, or possibly Epigonations (unattached ceremonial \"handkerchiefs\", which survive as an Eastern Orthodox vestment). These would have been highly decorated with embroidery and probably jewels.\n\nThe official receiving the document wears clothes decorated with stripes and patches which would have been a kind of uniform for his office. The three Imperial figures have tightly curled hairstyles, and wear diadems of pearls. Their cloaks are fastened with large circular jewelled fibulae, comparable to that worn by Justinian in the famous mosaic at Ravenna, while the official has a \"crossbow\" fibula.\n\nThe architectural surround has often been compared to a peristyle at Diocletian's Palace in Split, Croatia, where the emperor retired after abdicating his powers. This opens from the imperial residence to a courtyard that has been regarded as a setting for ceremonial audiences such as the one shown on the dish, but this interpretation is uncertain.\n\nBelow the groundline of the imperial scene there is a scene of putti offering garlands and other objects, up to the Emperor above; with the two on the pediment above, there are five in total, and various significances have been given to this number, as representing years, \"dioceses\" of the Eastern Empire, or other things. Their offerings are held in hand-cloths, just as the official uses his clothes to receive his gift; it was not considered respectful to hold bare hands out to the emperor.\n\nThe putti fly above a reclining figure of Tellus or Terra, the Roman goddess of \"Mother Earth\". Vaguer figures from Roman mythology such as personifications, putti, and winged victories continued to be acceptable in Christian art of the Roman elite, and apparently retained for reasons of what we might call \"cultural heritage\", where representations of specific major deities were not. Tellus is shown in a pose that continues Hellenistic style, rather than the frontal iconic Late Antique style of the figures in the upper zone.\n\nThe missorium comes from a treasure of silver objects that also included two plain silver cups, now missing, discovered by a labourer in 1847 in Almendralejo, close to Mérida in the Spanish province of Badajoz. When found it was folded flat along the line of the diagonal cut that now divides it into two pieces, which was made as part of an attempt to restore it, though an attempt at a cut along the same line may also have been made in antiquity. It is in good condition apart from the areas affected by this, but that it was folded may suggest it was being treated as bullion when deposited. The height of the silver relief varies, and is highest in the face of Theodosius and other highlights of the composition; much of the detail on the clothing is engraved.\n\nThe dish is one of the most beautiful examples of silversmith's work of imperial largesse, that is to say of the category of luxury articles made for imperial celebrations such as accession to the throne and anniversaries and given on these occasions by the emperor to high-ranking dignitaries of the empire: they were mainly dishes, plates, cups, and bowls in silver. The recipient may well be the official represented on the dish (possibly a generalized figure, especially if the design was made in several copies, which we cannot judge), and the find-spot in Spain, Theodosius's home province, suggests it was one of his Spanish friends or relations.\n\nA \"missorium\" is a large dish or shallow bowl that could be used in ceremonial washing of hands and face in both secular and pagan and Christian religious contexts, though this dish is too flat to be very useful for this, and was probably intended mainly to be displayed as a sign of wealth and imperial favour. The term now tends to be avoided by scholars, as rather imprecise, but has become traditional in the case of the dish in Madrid. This is made of solid silver and has traces of gilding on the inscriptions. Its size is exceptional compared to other contemporary silver dishes, measuring 74 cm in diameter with a thickness which varies between 4 and 8 mm. It rests on a ring, 3 cm thick with a diameter of 26 cm, which was welded to the base. This ring has a Greek inscription specifying the official weight of the object:\n\nποc ↑Ν ΜεΤ i.e. ποσότης λιτρῶν 50 μετάλλου (“50 metal pounds”)\n\nThe 50 \"pounds\" correspond to an official weight of 16.13 kg of silver, whereas the dish actually weighs only 15.35 kg; the difference could be because the dish was weighed and marked before being decorated: a piece of the dish is also missing. The decoration, at the same time engraved and with repoussé decoration (pushed out from the back), would have removed a little metal, although this is unlikely to account for the whole difference.\nThe subject of the decoration is the emperor enthroned with his co-reigning emperors. An inscription along the side of the rim makes it possible to identify him with certainty:\n\nD(ominus) N(oster) THEODOSIVS PERPET(uus)AVG(ustus)OB DIEM FELICISSIMVM X \n\nthat is to say: “Our Lord Theodosius, emperor forever, on the most happy occasion of the tenth anniversary (of his reign).”\n\nThe inscription indicates that the dish was made at the time of the decennalia of an emperor named Theodosius.. The presence of two co-regents makes it possible to exclude immediately Theodosius II, for he had one co-regent — his uncle Flavius Honorius — at the time of the tenth anniversary of his reign, celebrated in 412. This leaves the decennalia of Theodosius I, on January 19 388. It was celebrated when the emperor was staying at Thessaloniki from September 387 to April 388. Some have concluded that the missorium was the work of a Thessalonician workshop, but it is more likely that it was ordered from the Imperial workshops in Constantinople; others think that the imperial workshop would have followed the emperor around on his travels.\n\nFew examples of this imperial silver have survived; only nineteen items, all dating from the 4th century and produced for six different emperors, though ten are for Licinius. In this series, the missorium of Theodosius I is distinguished because it is both the latest - although the practice probably continued for a further two centuries - and because it carries the most elaborate decoration: the only other well-preserved examples are the \"Kerch plate\", preserved at the Hermitage Museum in St Petersberg, showing Constantius II on horseback, and that of Valentinian I or Valentinian II in Geneva. A fragment from a treasure found at Groß Bodungen was probably the closest to the missorium of Theodosius I in design, but is too damaged to allow an identification or a precise dating. Rather more examples have survived of aristocratic, rather than imperial silver, such as the Mildenhall Treasure probably dating from a few years earlier, or the Sevso Treasure.\n\nJutta Meischner relocates the Missorium of Theodosius to the 5th century AD, to the year 421. She argues, that the emperor is Theodosius II, flanked by Honorius to the right and Valentinian III to the left. Meischner constitutes this interpretation by describing the Missorium as a work of distinctive style, quality of execution and workmanship seen in exemplary examples of Western Roman Empire. She argues that features like these are not consistent with the era of Theodosius I. \n\nHowever, Meischner bases her argument on the inscription mentioning a tenth imperial anniversary was intended to celebrate the continuation of the dynasty ten years after coming to power Theodosius II in 418 AD, following his father Arcadius’ death in 408 AD. On the basis of the epigraphic evidence (a XV, as proposed by Alicia Canto, see above and below), she believes that it was most likely commissioned by Galla Placidia and produced in Ravenna in around 421 AD as a gift to her nephew Theodosius II. She concedes the reading of the Roman numerals inscribed on the missorium by Alicia Canto in her detailed study (that was presented in the same Madrid conference), as ‘quindecennalia’ the fifteenth imperial anniversary, as opposed to the common reading of \"decennalia\", gives us of a new perspective and reassessment of the history, the circumstances of the Missorium’s commission by Galla Placidia and its intended functions and unresolved provenance.\n\nThe dish is a leading example of the style of the so-called \"Theodosian Renaissance\", along with the base of the Obelisk of Theodosius in Istanbul and the fragments surviving of his triumphal column there. This is the first stylistic phase that can be clearly linked with the new capital of Constantinople, and according to Ernst Kitzinger: \"One senses that some strong artistic personality or personalities who set the tone and aesthetic standards were active at the centre of political power, stamping the monuments of this period with an unmistakable imprint\".\n\nDespite limitations in terms of anatomical correctness, and a \"soft, rubbery quality\" in the nude bodies, the style has \"an element of studied classicism\" as well as \"an insistence on clear, continuous and simplified outline, on neatness and regularity\" in the figure of \"Terra/Tellus\", so that \"Classicist form is oddly paired with linear abstract order\", the latter more prominent in the upper zone, to lend an air of authority and \"timelessness and absolute stability\" to the imperial figures that was not required below.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35151476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35151476", "title": "Mugam (1999 film)", "text": "Mugam (1999 film)\n\nMugam () is a 1999 Tamil language film directed by Gnana Rajasekaran. The film features Nassar and Roja in lead roles whilst Manivannan, Vivek and Thalaivasal Vijay play supporting roles. The film opened in October 1999 to negative reviews and it did poorly at the box office.\n\nRangan (Nasser) is a very ugly man and therefore lives a tough life. He is kicked out of jobs, ill-treated constantly, and the girl he loves hates him. Then one day, Rangan goes to the houseandsome. With the Mask, Rangan generates followers, becomes a film star, and gets a wife who loves him solely for his handsome face (Roja). Nearing the end, Rangan takes off the Mask for a moment, and wishes people would respect him for who he is on the inside. His wife walks in, sees his ugly face, and throws him out, mistaking him for a robber. Rangan's former followers throw him to the side. Deciding that only beauty can bring him respect, Rangan puts the mask back on and lives the life of actor.\n\nA critic felt that \"The storyline would be excellent to read in a novel, but the reality in film is incredibly slow-paced and implausible.\" and \"that the actors do the best with what they have, but the result is still a very boring long drawn-out masterpiece gone horribly wrong.\"\n\nThe film did poorly at the box office and was played on television within 2 weeks of release.\n"}
{"id": "35422170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35422170", "title": "Multiracial people in China", "text": "Multiracial people in China\n\nHùnxuè'ér () is a Chinese term used to refer to people of mixed race. It literally means \"mixed-blood child\" and is used for all mixed-race people.\n\nFor decades following the Chinese Revolution of 1949, marriages between laowai (foreigners) and Chinese were unusual and perhaps even nonexistent during the Cultural Revolution, but they were never explicitly banned or judged unacceptable on a racial basis. It was only in the mid-1970s that the first petitions for permission to marry foreigners were accepted, with the thawing of diplomatic ties between China and the United States. Such marriages remained relatively unusual for another two decades.\n\nFrom 1994 to 2008, each year has seen about 3,000 more mixed-race marriages in Shanghai than the previous year. This has caused a major shift in China's attitudes to race and to Chinese children of mixed race heritage, because of globalization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3850819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3850819", "title": "Musakhan", "text": "Musakhan\n\nMusakhan () is a Palestinian cuisine dish, composed of roasted chicken baked with onions, sumac, allspice, saffron, and fried pine nuts served over taboon bread. It is also known as muhammar (). It is often considered the national dish of Palestine.\n\nThe dish is simple to make and the ingredients needed are easily obtainable, which may account for the dish's popularity. Many of the ingredients used—olive oil, sumac and pine nuts—are frequently found in Palestine cuisine. The dish is also popular in Levant, particularly among Palestinians.\n\nMusakhan is a dish that one typically eats with one's hands. It is usually presented with the chicken on top of the bread, and could be served with soup. The term \"musakhan\" literally means \"something that is heated.\"\n\nA typical recipe of musakhan has the following nutrition facts per serving (around 300 g):\n\nOn April 20, 2010, the largest ever dish of Musakhan was prepared in Ramallah, Palestine and entered it into the \"Guinness Book of World Records\". Palestinian Prime Minister, Salam Fayad, described it as a great achievement and honor for the Palestinian people: \"This great achievement completely depended on Palestinian products, mainly olive oil. It also has a cultural dimension and a Palestinian message to the world that they want their legitimate rights.\" The total diameter of the 'Musakhan' loaf was 4 meters, with a total weight of 1,350 kg. Forty Palestinian cooks made use of 250 kg of flour, 170 kg of olive oil, 500 kg of onions and 70 kg of almond.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2375603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2375603", "title": "National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters", "text": "National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters\n\nThe National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters Ltd (known as NAATI) is the national standards and accreditation body for translators and interpreters in Australia. NAATI's mission, as outlined in the NAATI Constitution, is to set and maintain high national standards in translating and interpreting to enable the existence of a pool of accredited translators and interpreters responsive to the changing needs and demography of the Australian community. The core focus of the company is issuing credentials (known as accreditations or recognitions) for practitioners who wish to work as translators and interpreters in Australia.\n\nNAATI is a profit company that is jointly owned by the Commonwealth, State and Territory governments of Australia. It is governed by a board of directors who are appointed by the members.\n\nThe members of NAATI are the nine ministers who are responsible for multicultural affairs and/or citizenship in the Commonwealth, State and Territory governments. Members may appoint a representative to exercise any of their powers in relation to NAATI. These Member Representatives are separate to the NAATI board of directors.\n\nThe current members of NAATI include:\n\nNAATI provides eight key services to assist individuals gain and maintain a credential to work as a translator or interpreter in Australia. These services include:\n\nThere are two types of NAATI credentials – accreditation and recognition.\n\nNAATI accreditation is an acknowledgement that an individual has demonstrated the ability to meet the professional standards required by the translation and interpreting industry. NAATI assesses practitioners and aspiring translators and interpreters against these standards so that English speaking and non-English speaking Australians can interact effectively with each other.\n\nThere are a couple of different ways you can gain NAATI accreditation, including:\n\nNAATI recognition is granted in emerging languages or languages with very low community demand for which NAATI does not offer accreditation. The granting of NAATI recognition is an acknowledgement that an individual has recent and regular experience as a translator and/or interpreter with no defined skill level.\n\nUnder NAATI's current system, there are ten different types of credentials. These are listed in the table below.\n\nNAATI translator accreditation (professional level or higher) is usually awarded in one of the following directions:\n\n\nNAATI interpreter accreditations (at all levels) are awarded in both directions.\n\nOccasionally, NAATI has awarded accreditation in a language combination that does not feature English at the Conference Interpreter or Advanced Translator level e.g. Advanced Translator French to German or Conference Interpreter (Senior) French to/from Russian. This sort of accreditation can only be awarded on the basis of a professional membership of an international association such as AIIC or AITC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "952994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=952994", "title": "Orff Schulwerk", "text": "Orff Schulwerk\n\nThe Orff Schulwerk, or simply the Orff Approach, is a developmental approach used in music education. It combines music, movement, drama, and speech into lessons that are similar to child's world of play. It was developed by the German composer Carl Orff (1895–1982) and colleague Gunild Keetman during the 1920s. Carl Orff worked until the end of his life to continue the development and spread of his teaching method. \n\nThe Orff Approach is now used throughout the world to teach students in a natural and comfortable environment. The term \"schulwerk\" is German for (literally) \"school work\" or \"schooling\", in this regard in the area of music.\n\nThe Orff Approach of music education uses very rudimentary forms of everyday activity for the purpose of music creation by music students. The Orff Approach is a \"child-centered way of learning\" music education that treats music as a basic system like language and believes that just as every child can learn language without formal instruction so can every child learn music by a gentle and friendly approach.\n\nIt is often called \"Elemental Music making\" because the materials needed to teach students are \"basic, natural, and close to a child’s world of thought and fantasy\".\n\nIn order for the Orff Approach to effectively work teachers must create an atmosphere that is similar to a child’s world of play. This allows participating children to feel comfortable learning a new and often abstract musical skill, greater exploration of a musical instrument or musical skill, and keeps a student from feeling evaluated or judged by his or her peers and teachers. A child participating in an Orff classroom does not feel the pressure of performing that is often in tandem with music because every student in an Orff classroom is treated as an equal, even when performing a solo. \n\nThe Orff Approach is used by teachers to encourage their students to enjoy making music as individuals as well as in groups. Children realize the joys of group co-ordination and cohesion. It also involves the participation of other adults and parents in music making. Thus it brings the role of parent in child education in a central position. From a teacher’s aspect Orff-Schulwerk is also a process of breaking down each activity into its simplest form and then presenting those steps one at a time to eventually become a completed performance.\n\nIn the Orff Approach \"all concepts are learned by ‘doing'\". Students of the Orff Approach learn music by experiencing and participating in the different musical lessons and activities. These lessons stimulate not only the paraxial concepts of music like rhythm and tempo, but also the aesthetic qualities of music. “Orff activities awaken the child’s total awareness” and “sensitize the child’s awareness of space, time, form, line, color, design, and mood- aesthetic data that musicians are acutely aware of, yet find hard to explain to musical novices\".\n\nUnlike Simply Music or the Suzuki Method, the Orff Schulwerk approach is not a method. There is no systematic stepwise procedure to be followed. There are fundamental principles, clear models and basic processes that all intuitive and creative teachers use to guide their organization of musical ideas.\n\nThe music generated in the Orff Approach is largely improvisational and uses original tonal constructions that build a sense of confidence and interest in the process of creative thinking. Students of the Orff Approach sing, play instruments, and dance alone as well as in groups. Songs are usually short, contain ostinatos, are within singing range, can be manipulated to be played in a round or ABA form. \"Music is chosen with strong nationalistic flavor, being related to folk songs and music of the child’s own heritage\". Music can also be anything from nursery rhymes to songs that are invented by the children themselves. Orff-Schulwerk music is largely based on simple but forceful variations on rhythmic patterns. This makes for very simple and beautiful musical forms, which are easily learned by young children, and is also useful for adults and thus it has a universal appeal. Composer David Hewson was exposed to Orff Schulwerk and this influence helped to shape a lot of his later music.\n\nThe music is largely modal, beginning with pentatonic (both major and minor) scales. (English version adapted by Margaret Murray) The drone or bordun, is quickly established as the ground bass that supports most melodies and melodic ostinati add energy and colour.\n\nVolume II in Part One, covers hexachordal (added fa)melodies over Major Drone Bass Triads, and then seven notes: Ionian mode. Note, this is not major scale, as the drone bass enforces a non-functional harmony. Parallel thirds and sixths (paraphony) are used liberally here. Part Two introduces the use of triads as following: I - ii, and some I - vi.\n\nGoodkin (p172) discusses the progression of the volumes: I-II-III-IV-V as opposed to I-II-IV-III-V. Volume III introduces Major Dominant and Subdominant triads (That is to say: functional harmony). However Volume IV can be viewed as more logically the next step as it introduces Dorian, Aeolian and Phrygian modes with similar shifting drones and triads to those found previously in Vol II.\n\nVol IV, Part One: Minor-Drone Bass Triads. Aeolian, Dorian and Phrygian mode, i-ii shifting drones and triads. Part Two: Tonic and Leading Note triads, i-IV and decoration of the third.\n\nVol III Major Dominant and Subdominant Triads. This harmonic world is more challenging for children and improvising than the modes, hence the importance of leaving until skills have developed appropriately.\n\nVolume V follows III, but explores Minor Dominant and Subdominant Chords.\n\nAnd finally, almost as an afterthought, Paralipomena which explores the worlds of Lydian I-II, and Mixolydian I-VII.\n\nWhen interesting original music has been generated by the groups or individual child a desire to record it may arise. Thus, the desire to develop musical skills emerges by itself and the child may be intrinsically propelled to learn formal music.\n\nOrff considered the percussive rhythm as a natural basic form of human expression. Carl Orff and colleague Gunild Keetman co-composed much of the music for the five volume series, \"Music for Children.\" These volumes, first published in 1950, are still available and used today. Music played on Orff instruments is often very simple and easy to play even for first time musicians.\n\nSome of the instruments within the approach include miniature xylophones, marimbas, glockenspiels, and metallophones; all of which have removable bars, resonating columns to project the sound, and are easily transported and stored. Orff teachers also use different sized drums, recorders, and non- pitched percussion instruments \"to round out the songs that are sung and played\". The Orff approach also requires that children sing, chant, clap, dance, pat, and snap fingers along to melodies and rhythms.\n\nIn 1923 Carl Orff met Dorothee Günther while working at a theater in Munich, Germany. Günther \"believed that most students did not get enough chances to do art and music and movement activities\". Because of her extensive background in gymnastics and the arts Gunter was able to open the Gunter-Schule in 1924. Even though Carl Orff never worked with the students of the Gunter-Schule directly, this was the first institution to teach what would later be known as the Orff Approach.\n\nStudents of the Günther-Schule later went on to be dancers and teachers of note. One of these students, Gunild Keetman, began as a student and became a teacher at the school. The Gunter-Schule originally only taught older students; however, Keetman later worked on developing the ideas of the school to teach younger children as well. Together she and Carl Orff created the five volume series \"Music for Children\" which is still used by teachers today. The Gunter-Schule ran until 1944 when Nazis confiscated it. In 1945 the building was destroyed in an Allied bomb attack and all materials (instruments, costumes, photographs, and its library and archives) were destroyed.\n\nAfter the war, two serendipitous events brought Orff's approach back into the educational field. A series of radio programs aimed at children was broadcast in Bavaria. Orff wrote the music and re-united with Keetman to work on these broadcasts. The second event was the Mozartariums' request to have Keetman teach classes to children between 8 and 10 years old. Traude Schrattenecker who was also a graduate of the Gunter-Schule, joined Keetman in running this school.\n\nThere are Orff Schulwerk associations in different countries across the world including Germany, Canada, the United States, Australia, Korea, the United Kingdom, South Africa, France, Finland and New Zealand. All of these organisations promote the teachings of Carl Orff and Gunild Keetman and the spread of the Approach. Through all of these organizations teachers interested in teaching the Orff Approach can become certified in the Approach.\n\nThe American Orff-Schulwerk Association offers three different levels of training, each of which takes 60 hours to complete. Level one focuses on the \"necessary skills to plan and implement a variety of Orff Schulwerk music and movement activities in the classroom.\" \"Levels two and three are concerned with development of conceptual understanding of music and movement elements as they are presented in the Schulwerk elemental music context, as well as the skill needed to implement them\".\n\nIn America there are four stages in the Orff Approach: imitation, exploration, improvisation, and composition. Through imitation, the teacher, group leader, or even the students perform for the class and the class in turn repeats what was played for them. Exploration allows students to seek out the musical aspects that the Orff instruments offer and explore aural/oral skills and the motions and expressions that the body is capable of. Literacy is taught by learning musical notation and becoming familiar with forms of music like rondo and ABA. Improvisation is the act of creating something, especially music, without prior preparation. To improvise, a student must have \"a preliminary knowledge and comprehension of concepts.\" Students of the Orff Approach learn to create their own melodies in a comfortable environment that allows for mistakes and promotes creativity.\n\nOrff New Zealand Aotearoa (ONZA) is a professional society dedicated to the promotion of the Orff Schulwerk approach in New Zealand. The organisation is a member of the Orff Schulwerk Forum Salzburg. In association with the University of Waikato, ONZA offers a four-tiered course of study in the Orff approach, which includes practical workshops and critical investigation.\n\nThe Orff Approach was originally intended to teach music to children but because of the different benefits that it offers with coordination, dexterity, and concentration the technique is often used to teach individuals with special needs. The simplicity of the technique allows all ranges of handicapped students to participate in the learning process. Mentally handicapped students can easily perform the tasks without fear of being ridiculed or being left behind. The visually impaired/blind who tend to have \"hesitant, jerky, and over controlled\" movements because they \"often breathe quite shallowly\" can use the different breathing and movement exercises to relax their body and breathing. Students with a hearing impairment can use the Orff Approach by feeling the vibrations that are created by different instruments. Since music is mostly resilient, students who have had injuries that have mentally impaired them can use the Approach as a form of therapy. Even elderly individuals who often become weak with old age can use the Orff Approach to help with memory, dexterity, and agility.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7407819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7407819", "title": "Origin hypotheses of the Croats", "text": "Origin hypotheses of the Croats\n\nThe origin of the Croats before the great migration of the Slavs is uncertain. The modern Croats are considered a Slavic people, but the archaeological and other historic evidence on the migration of the Slavic settlers, the character of native population on present-day territory of Croatia, and their mutual relationship show diverse historical influences.\n\nThe definition of Croatian ethnogenesis begins with the definition of ethnicity, according to which an ethnic group is a socially defined category of people who identify with each other based on common ancestral, social, cultural or other experience, and which shows a certain durability over the long period term of time. In the Croatian case, there's no doubt that in the Early Middle Ages a certain group identified themselves by ethnonym \"Hrvati\" (Croats), and was identified as such by the others. It also had a political connotation, it continued to expand, and since the Late Middle Ages explicitly identified with the nation, although not in the exact meaning as of the contemporary modern nation.\n\nIn the case of the present-day Croatian nation it could be said that several components or phases influenced its ethnogenesis:\n\n\nThe mention of the Croatian ethnonym \"Hrvat\" for a specific tribe before the 9th century is not yet completely confirmed. According to Constantine VII's work \"De Administrando Imperio\" (10th century), a group of Croats separated from the White Croats who lived in White Croatia and arrived by their own will, or were called by the Byzantine Emperor Heraclius (610-641), to Dalmatia where they fought and defeated the Avars, and eventually organized their own principality. According to the legend preserved in the work, they were led by five brothers \"Κλουκας\" (Kloukas), \"Λόβελος\" (Lobelos), \"Κοσέντζης\" (Kosentzis), \"Μουχλώ\" (Mouchlo), \"Χρωβάτος\" (Chrobatos), and two sisters \"Τουγά\" (Touga) and \"Βουγά\" (Bouga), and their archon at the time was \"father\" of Porga, and they were baptized during the rule of Porga in the 7th century.\n\nThe old historical sources do not give an exact indication of the ethnogenesis of these early Croats. Constantine VII does not identify Croats with Slavs, nor does he point to differences between them. John Skylitzes in his work \"Madrid Skylitzes\" Croats and Serbs as Scythians. Nestor the Chronicler in his \"Primary Chronicle\" identified White Croats with West Slavs along Vistula river, with other Croats included in the East Slavic tribal union. The \"Chronicle of the Priest of Duklja\" identifies Croats with the Goths who remained after king Totila occupied the province of Dalmatia. Similarly, Thomas the Archdeacon in his work \"Historia Salonitana\" mentions that seven or eight tribes of nobles, which he called \"Lingones\", arrived from present-day Poland and settled in Croatia under Totila's leadership.\n\nThe Croatian ethnonym \"Hrvat\", as well of those five brothers and sisters and the early ruler Porga, are not considered to be of Slavic origin, yet again, are quite original to be a pure fabrication of Constantine VII. As such, the origin of the early Croats before and at the time of arrival to the present day Croatia, as well their ethnonym, were an eternal topic of historiography, linguistics and archeology. However, the theories were often elaborated in non-scientific terms, supported by specific ideological intentions, and often by political and cultural intentions of the time. This kind of interpretations caused a lot of damage to certain theories and actual scientific community. It should be taken into serious consideration whether the origin of the early Croatian tribes can be regarded also as the origin of Croatian nation, and can only be asserted that the Croats as are known today as a nation became only when Croatian tribes arrived in the territory of present-day Croatia.\n\nThe Slavic, also known as Pan-Slavic and Autochthonous-Slavic theory, dates back to the Croatian Renaissance, when was supported by Vinko Pribojević and Juraj Šižgorić. There's no doubt that Croatian language belongs to the Slavic languages, but they considered that Slavs were autochthonous in Illyricum and their ancestors were old Illyrians. It developed among the Dalmatian humanists, and was also considered by early modern writers, like Matija Petar Katančić, Mavro Orbini and Pavao Ritter Vitezović. This cultural and romanticist idea was especially promoted by the national Illyrian Movement and their leader Ljudevit Gaj in the 19th century.\n\nWith the development of Croatian historiography, since the 17th century, the Slavic theory was elaborated in more realistic terms, and considered Croats as one of the Slavic groups which settled in their modern-day homeland during the migration period. Constantine the VII's work was particularly researched by the 17th century historian Ivan Lučić, who concluded that the Croats came from White Croatia on the other side of the Carpathian mountains, in \"Sarmatia\" (Poland), with which historians today agree upon. The autochthonous idea, that the Slavs came to Illyricum from Poland is of even older origin (12th century).\n\nIn the late 19th century, the most significant impact on the future historiography had Franjo Rački, and the intellectual and political circle around Josip Juraj Strossmayer. Rački's view of the unified arrival of the Croats and Serbs to the \"partially empty house\", fit the ideological Yugoslavism and Pan-Slavism. The ideas by Rački were furtherly developed by historian Ferdo Šišić in his seminal work \"History of the Croats in the Age of the Croat Rulers\" (1925). The work is considered as the foundation stone for later historiography. However, in the first and second Yugoslavia, the Pan-Slavic (pure-Slavic) theory was particularly emphasized because of the political context and was the only officially accepted theory by the regime, while others which attributed non-Slavic origin and components were ignored and not accepted, and even their supporters, because of also political reasons, were persecuted (Milan Šufflay, Kerubin Šegvić, Ivo Pilar and Mihovil Lovrić). The official theory also ignored some historical sources, like the account of Constantine VII, and considered that the Croats and Serbs were the same Slavic people who arrived in one and the same migration, and unwilling to consider foreign elements in those separate societies. There were Yugoslavian scholars like Ferdo Šišić and Nada Klaić who allowed limited non-Slavic origin of certain elements in Croatian ethnogenesis, and they were usually connected with the Avars and Bulgars. One of the main difficulties with the Pan-Slavic theory was the Croatian (and Serbian) ethnonym which could not be derived from the Slavic language.\n\nAccording to the \"autochthonous model\", the Slavs homeland was in the area of former Yugoslavia, and they spread northwards and westwards rather than the other way round. A revision of the theory, developed by Ivan Mužić, argues that Slavic migration from the north did happen, but the actual number of Slavic settlers was small and that the autochthonous ethnic substratum was prevalent in the formation of the Croats, but that contradicts and doesn't answer the presence of predominant Slavic language. The social and linguistical situation that made the pre-Slavic population is hard to reconstruct, especially if is accepted the theory that the autochthonous population was dominant at the time of arrival of the Slavs yet accepted the language and culture of Slavic newcomers who were in the minority. This scenario can only be explained with the possible distortion of the cultural and ethnic identity of the native Romanized population that happened after the fall of West Roman Empire, and that the new Slavic language and culture was seen as a prestigious idiom they had to, or wanted to accept. The assumptions that the Illyrians were an ethnolinguistic homogeneous entity were rejected in the 20th century, and according to the scholars who support the \"Danube basin hypothesis\" of the Slavic homeland, it is considered that some proto-Slavic tribes existed even before the Slavic migration in the Balkans.\n\nThe Gothic theory, which dates back to the late 12th and 13th century work by Priest of Duklja and Thomas the Archdeacon, without excluding that some Gothic segments could survive the collapse of Gothic Kingdom and were included in Croatian ethnogenesis, is based on almost none concrete evidence to identify Croats with the Goths. In 1102, Croatian Kingdom entered a personal union with Kingdom of Hungary. It is considered that this identification of Croats with Goths is based on a local Croatian Trpimirović dynastic myth from the 11th century, paralleling Hungarian Árpád dynasty's myth of originating from the Hunnic leader Attila.\n\nSome scholars like Nada Klaić considered that Thomas the Archdeacon despised Slavs/Croats and that wanted to depreciate them as barbarians with Goths identification, however, until the time of Renaissance the Goths were seen as noble barbarians compared to Huns, Avars, Vandals, Langobards, Magyars and Slavs, and as such he would not identify them with the Goths. Also, in the Thomas the Archdeacon's work the starting emphasis is on the decadence of people from Salona, and as such scholars consider the emergence of newcomers Goths/Croats was actually seen as a kind of God's scourge for sinful Romans.\n\nScholars like Ludwig Gumplowicz and Kerubin Šegvić literally read the medieval works and considered Croats as Goths who were eventually Slavicized, and that the ruling caste was formed from the foreign warrior element. The idea was argued with the Gothic suffix \"mære\" (\"mer\", famous) found among the names of Croatian dukes on stone and written inscriptions, as well Slavic suffix \"slav\" (famous), and that \"mer\" eventually was changed with \"mir\" (peace) because the Slavs twisted the interpretation of the names according their language. The ethnonym \"Hrvat\" was derived from the Germanic-Gothic \"Hrôthgutans\", the \"hrōþ\" (victory, glory) and \"gutans\" (common historical name for the Goths). The Gothic theory, as well as Pan-Slavic during Yugoslavia, was the only supported theory by the regime of NDH.\n\nThe Avar, also known as Avar-Bulgarian, Bulgarian or Turkic theory, dates to the late 19th and early 20th century when John Bagnell Bury noted the similarity between Croatian legend of five brothers (and two sisters) with Bulgarian legend of Kubrat's five sons. He considered that the White Croats' \"Chrobatos\" and Bulgars' \"Kubrat\" were the same person from the Bulgars ethnic group, as well derived the Croatian title Ban from the personal name of Avar khagan Bayan I and Kubrat's son Batbayan.\n\nThe theory was initially developed by Otto Kronsteiner in 1978. He tried to prove that early Croats were an upper caste of Avar origin, which blended with Slavic nobility during the 7th and 8th century and abandoned their Avar language. As arguments for his thesis he considered the Tatar-Bashkir derivation of Croatian ethnonym; that Croats and Avars are almost always mentioned together; distribution of Avarian type of settlements where the Croatian ethnonym was as toponym, \"pagus Crouuati\" in Carinthia and \"Kraubath\" in Styria; this settlements had Avarian names with suffix \"*-iki\" (\"-itji\"); the commander of those settlements was Avarian \"Ban\" which name is located in the center of those settlements, \"Faning/Baniče\" < \"Baniki\" in Carinthia, and \"Fahnsdorf < Bansdorf\" in Styria; the Avarian officers titles, besides Mong.-Turk. Khagan, the Kosezes/Kasazes, Ban and Župan. Previously, by some Yugoslavian historians the toponym \"Obrov(ac)\" was also considered of Avar origin, and according to Kronsteiner's claims, which many Nada Klaić accepted, Klaić moved the ancient homeland of White Croats to Carantania.\n\nHowever, according to Peter Štih and modern scholars, Kronsteiner arguments were plain assumptions which historians can not objectively accept as evidence. Actually, the etymology derivation is one of many, and is not generally accepted; the Croats are mentioned along the Avars only in the Constantine VII's work, but always as enemies of the Avars, who destroyed and expelled their authority from Dalmatia; those settlements had widespread Slavic suffix \"ići\", the settlements do not have the semicircular Avar type arrangement, and the \"Ban's\" settlements could not be his seat as are very small and are not found on any important crossroad or geographical location; the titles origin and derivation are unsolved, and they are not found among Avars and Avar language; toponyms with root \"Obrov\" derive from South Slavic verb \"obrovati\" (to dig a trench) and are mostly of later date (from the 14th century).\n\nThe theory was further developed by Walter Pohl. He noted the difference between infantry-agricultural (Slavic) and cavalry-nomadic (Avar) tradition, but did not negate that sometimes the situation was exactly the opposite, and often sources did not differentiate Slavs and Avars. He initially shared the Bury's opinion on the Kubrat's and Chrobatos' name and legends, and the mention of two sisters interpreted as additional elements which joined the alliance \"by the maternal line\", and noted that the symbolism of the number seven is often encountered in the steppe peoples. Pohl noted that the Kronsteiner's merit was that, instead of the previously usual \"ethnic\" ethnogenesis, he proposed a \"social\" one. As such, Croatian name would not be an ethnonym, but a social designation for a group of elite warriors of diverse origin which ruled over the conquered Slavic population on the Avar Khaganate's boundary, the designation eventually becoming an ethnonym imposed to the Slavic groups. The assertion about the boundary is only partly true because although the Croats were mentioned on the line of Khaganate they were mostly outside and not inside the boundaries. He did not support Kronstenier's derivation, nor consider the etymology important as it is impossible to establish the ethnic origin of \"original Croats\", \"i.e.\" the social categories which carried the title of \"Hrvat\".\n\nLately, a more pro-Turkic (as White Oghurs) thesis was given by Osman Karatay. This theory is not taken into consideration, as it frequently disregarded existing historiographical scholarship. It also considered the Turkic origin of Bosnian polity, and this was viewed as popularisation of links between Bosnian Muslims with Turkey.\n\nHowever, the origin and ethnogenesis of Eurasian Avars and their language still remains completely unresolved, and probably beside Slavs also included components and influence from other ethnic groups like Eurasian Steppe-Iranians, being a heterogeneous tribal community by which both Avar and Iranian theory are not mutually exclusive.\n\nThe Iranian, also known as Iranian-Caucasian theory, dates to the 1797 and the doctoral dissertation by Josip Mikoczy-Blumenthal who, as the dissertation mysteriously disappeared in 1918 and was preserved only a short review, considered that Croats originated from Sarmatians who were descending from Medes in North-Western Iran. In 1853 were discovered the two Tanais Tablets. They are written in Greek, and were founded in the Greek colony of Tanais in the late 2nd and early 3rd century AD, at the time when the colony was surrounded by Sarmatians. On the larger inscription is written \"the father of the devotional assembly Horouathon\" and \"the son of Horoathu\", while on the smaller inscription \"Horoathos, the son of Sandarz, the archons of the Tanaisians\", which resembles the usual variation of Croathian ethnonym \"Hrvat\" - \"Horvat\". It should be noted that some scholars use these tablets only to explain the etymology, and not necessarily the ethnogenesis.\n\nThe Iranian theory entered the historical science from three, initially independent ways, from historical-philological, art history, and religion history, in the first half of the 20th century. The last two were supported by art historian scholars (Luka Jelić, Josef Strzygowski, Ugo Monneret de Villard), and religion historian scholars (Johann Peisker, Milan Šufflay, Ivo Pilar). The Slavic-Iranian cultural interrelation was pointed out by modern ethnologists, like Marijana Gušić who in the ritual Ljelje noticed the influence from Pontic-Caucasian-Iranian sphere, Branimir Gušić, and archeologists Zdenko Vinski and Ksenija Vinski-Gasparini. However, the cultural and artistic indicators of Iranian origin, including indications in the religious sphere, is somehow difficult to determine. It is mostly Sassanian (224-651 AD) influences that were felt in the steppe regions.\n\nThe first scholar who connected the tablets names with Croatian ethnonym was A. L. Pogodin in 1902. First who considered such a thesis and Iranian origin was Konstantin Josef Jireček in 1911. Ten years later, Al. I. Sobolevski gave the first systematic theory about the Iranian origin which until today did not change in basic lines. In the same year, independently Fran Ramovš, with reference to the Iranian interpretation of the name Horoathos by Max Vasmer, concluded that the early Croats were one of the Sarmatian tribes which during the great migration advanced along the outer edge of Carpathians (Galicia) to the Vistula and Elbe rivers. The almost final, and more in detail picture was given by Slovenian academic Ljudmil Hauptmann in 1935. He considered that Iranian Croats, after the Huns invasion around 370 when the Huns crossed the Volga river and attacked the Iranian Alans at the Don river, abandoned their initial Sarmatian lands and arrived among the Slavs at the wast lands north of Carpathians, where they gradually Slavicized. There they belonged to the Antes tribal polity until the Antes were attacked by the Avars in 560, and the polity was finally destroyed 602 by the same Avars. The thesis was subsequently supported by Francis Dvornik, George Vernadsky, Roman Jakobson, Tadeusz Sulimirski, and Oleg Trubachyov. In 1985, Omeljan Pritsak considered early Croats a clan of Alan-Iranian origin which during the \"Avarian pax\" had frontiersman-merchant social role.\n\nThe personal names on the Tanais Tablets are considered as a prototype of a certain ethnonym of a Sarmatian tribe those persons did descend from, and as well today is generally accepted that the Croatian name is of Iranian origin and that can be traced to the Tanais Tablets. However, the etymology itself is not enough strong evidence. The theory is further explained with the Avar's destruction of Antes tribal polity in 602, and that the early Croats migration and subsequent war with Avars in Dalmatia (during the reign of Heraclius 610-641) can be seen as a continuation of the war between Antes and Avars. That the early Croats marked the cardinal directions with colors, hence White Croats and White Croatia (Western) and Red Croatia (Southern), but the cardinal color designation, in general, indicates remnants of the widespread steppe peoples tradition. The heterogeneous composition of the Croatian legend in which are unusually mentioned two women leaders \"Touga\" and \"Bouga\", which indicates to what the actual archaeological findings confirmed - the existence of \"warrior women\" known as Amazons among the Sarmatians and Scythians. As such, Trubachyov tried to explain the original proto-type of the ethnonym from adjectives \"*xar-va(n)t\" (feminine, rich in women), which derives from the etymology of Sarmatians, the Indo-Aryan \"*sar-ma(n)t\" (feminine), in both Indo-Iran adjective suffix \"-ma(n)t/wa(n)t\", and Indo-Aryan and Indo-Iranian word \"*sar-\" (woman), which in Iranian gives \"*har\".\n\nAnother interpretation was given by the scholar Jevgenij Paščenko; he considered that the Croats were a heterogeneous group of people belonging to the Chernyakhov culture, a poly-ethnic cultural mélange of mostly Slavs and Sarmatians, but also Goths, Getae and Dacians. There was happening an interrelation between Slavic and Iranian language and culture, seen for example in the toponymy. As such, under the ethnonym \"Hrvati\" should not be necessary seen a specific or even homogeneous tribe, yet archaic religion and mythology of a heterogeneous group of people of Iranian origin or influence who worshiped the solar deity Hors, from which possibly originates the Croatian ethnonym.\n\nThe another known more radical thesis of the Iranian theory was by Stjepan Krizin Sakač, who although gave insights on some issues, tried to follow the Croatian ethnonym as far the region Arachosia (\"Harahvaiti\", \"Harauvatiš\") and its people (\"Harahuvatiya\") of the Achaemenid Empire (550–330 BCE). However, although the suggestive similarity, it is etymologically incorrect. There were many supporters of the thesis and further tried to develop it, but the actual arguments are considered far-fetched and unscientific.\n\nAnthropologically, the craniometrical measurements made on the contemporary Croatian population of the city of Zagreb showed it is predominantly dolichocephalic, more specifically mesocephalia and leptoprosopia prevail in South Dalmatia, and brachycephaly and euryprosopy in Central Croatia. According to the 1998-2004 craniometric study of medieval Central European archaeological sites, four Dalmatian and two Bosnian sites clustered with Polish sites, two Continental Croatia (Avaro-Slav) sites were classified into the cluster of Hungarian sites west of the Danube, while the two sites from the Bijelo Brdo culture were into the cluster of Slav sites from Austria, the Czech Republic, and Slovenia. Comparison to the Scythian-Sarmatian sites did not reveal significant similarity in cranial morphology, nor was supported the idea of the Avar frontiersmen. The results indicate that the nucleus of the early Croat state in Dalmatia was of Slavic ancestry, which arrived from the area somewhere in Poland probably along the direct route Nitra-Zalaszabar-Nin, and gradually expanded into the continental hinterland of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the 10th century, however, by the end of the 11th century did not in Eastern Slavonia. The 2015 study of medieval skeletal remains in Šopot (14th-15th century) and Ostrovica (9th century) found out they cluster with other Dalmatian sites as well Polish sites, concluding that \"PCA showed that all Eastern Adriatic coast sites were closely related in cranial morphology, and thus, most likely had similar biological makeup\".\n\nGenetically, on the Y chromosome line, a majority (>85%) of male Croats from Croatia belong to one of the three major European Y-DNA haplogroups - I (38%-44%), R1a (27%-34%) and R1b (12.4%-15%), while a minority (>15%) mostly belongs to haplogroup E (9%), and others to haplgroups J (4.4%), N (2%), and G (1%). Genetically, on the maternal X chromosome line, a majority (>65%) of female Croats from Croatia (mainland and coast) belong to three of the eleven major European mtDNA haplogroups - H (45%), U (17.8-20.8%), J (3-11%), while a large minority (>35%) belongs to many other smaller haplogroups.\n\nThe region of modern-day Croatia may have served as a refugium for the northern populations during the last glacial maximum (LGM). The eastern Adriatic coast was much further south. The northern and the western parts of that sea were steppes and plains, while the modern Croatian islands (rich in Paleolithic archeological sites) were hills and mountains. The region had a specific role in the structuring of European, and particularly among Slavic, paternal genetic heritage, characterized by the predominance of R1a and I, and scarcity of E lineages. However, DNA can not be completely connected and used as the evidence for a specific ethnic component, but only as an indication.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9000077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9000077", "title": "Pholage", "text": "Pholage\n\nPholage is an artistic technique and method of graphic reproduction invented by Manuel Bennett in 1959.\n\nAn extension of collage, instead of consisting of mounting numerous pieces of colored paper or other material to make one original, pholage consists of taking positive or negative photographic film images, cutting out sections called \"masks\", and reassembling them to create a varied reproduction of the original. Additional drawings can be added to the color-separated original to further manipulate the original.\n\nWhile collage yields a single piece of art, pholage can be reproduced by exposing photosensitive paper through the mask, or any other reproductive technique.\n\n"}
{"id": "37862823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37862823", "title": "Pile splice", "text": "Pile splice\n\nA pile splice joins two segments of a driven pile, using either a weld (typical for H beams), grout or mechanical means (typical for precast concrete piles). Pile splices enable the use of shorter segments, which allows for driving piles in low-headroom situations such as under bridges or inside buildings. Reducing length of pile segments to under ~65 feet long also means the trailers that haul them to job sites can stay within state length limits.\n\n"}
{"id": "20626487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20626487", "title": "Right to Die?", "text": "Right to Die?\n\nRight to Die? is a documentary aired on Sky Real Lives in December 2008 (rebroadcast on PBS on 2 March 2010 as \"The Suicide Tourist\") about the assisted suicide of Craig Colby Ewert (1947–2006), a 59-year-old retired university professor who suffered from Lou Gehrig’s disease (amyotrophic laterals sclerosis). Oscar-winning Canadian John Zaritsky directed and produced the film. \"Right to Die?\" had been previously shown on Canadian and Swiss television and at film festivals without controversy.\n\nEwert, who lived in Harrogate, North Yorkshire, England where assisted suicide is punishable by 14 years in jail, travelled to Switzerland where he was assisted by the Dignitas NGO at a rented Zurich apartment. The documentary, which covers the last four days of life, shows him dying on 26 September 2006 with Mary, his wife of 37 years, at his side. An employee of the Swiss clinic, Dignitas, can be seen preparing a lethal dose of barbiturates on camera, following which Ewert drinks it and dies. He died listening to Beethoven's Symphony No. 9. Ewert's children, Ivan and Katrina, who live in the US, decided not to attend their father's death after he expressed concerns that they would become upset.\n\nPrime Minister Gordon Brown, questioned in the House of Commons, hours before the documentary was screened, told MPs that he \"thinks it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and I hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public.\" \n\nHe further explained his position: “I believe that it’s necessary to ensure that there is never a case in the country where a sick or elderly person feels under pressure to agree to an assisted death or somehow feels it’s the expected thing to do. That’s why I’ve always opposed legislation for assisted deaths.” A spokesman for Dignity in Dying criticized Brown's statement: “Gordon Brown’s comments underline why there needs to be a full debate in Parliament on this issue.” Lord Warner, a former Health Minister, added: “Gordon Brown’s comments are not terribly helpful... Survey after survey has shown that 75-80 per cent of the population are in favour of assisted dying for the terminally ill when their pain has become unbearable, providing there are appropriate safeguards in place.” Privately, other politicians also criticised Gordon Brown, claiming that he had breached a convention of government neutrality by expressing a view on an issue recognised as one of conscience rather than party policy.\n\n\"The Sun\" found the documentary deeply moving. Director John Zaritsky, said making a film about euthanasia without showing the moment of death would be \"less than honest\".\n\nThe broadcast on Sky was watched by 231,000 viewers. This was a huge boost to Sky Real Lives' ratings – the show had less than 10,000 viewers in the same time slot a week before. Mary Ewert defended the documentary against criticism that it was a \"cynical attempt to boost television ratings\". Their son Ivan told \"The Sun\" from his home in Chicago, Illinois \"I am very proud of what Dad did\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58875000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58875000", "title": "Scandinavian law", "text": "Scandinavian law\n\nScandinavian law, alternatively known as Nordic Law is the law of the five Nordic countries, namely Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. It is generally regarded as a subgroup of civil law or as an individual legal body in itself. Prior to the 19th century, the European countries were independent in their administering and legality. However, in 1872, the Nordic countries organised legislative cooperation. Especially in areas of contracts and commerce, as well as those concerned with family, nationality and extradition, the five states have obtained uniform legislation.\n\nPrior to the establishment of Scandinavian states in the 9th century, the numerous regions were independent in their administration and legal matters. Initially, the legal system had no written laws; rather, it consisted of customary law that was developed and reformed by the citizens themselves at meetings known as “things”. Customary laws were recorded in writing between the 11th and 13th centuries. These include, the Gulathing’s law (11th century, Norwegian); the law of Jutland (1241, Danish); and the laws of Uppland (1296, Swedish) and Götaland (13th century, Swedish).\n\nThe early laws were not formatted as they are in modern-day legal systems, rather they used codes. These included private law, namely criminal law, family law, succession, property law, contract law, constitutional and administrative law. Laws relating to the Church were usually treated separate to laws of the states and people. The codes represented customary laws and usually, foreign influences were neglected. Mutual with Germanic laws, the provincial laws abided by externalities and thus, were more advanced. King Magnus’ Swedish code (1350) abolished the concepts of vengeance, stating that the king’s officials should be the necessary authorities in administering criminal proceedings and hold punishment for those who went against the law. Further, presumably by influence of the Christian religion, the legal system was introduced for the benefit of peasants and the helpless class.\n\nAlthough in 1380 Norway and Denmark were ruled by a common king – Olav IV, the two states maintained laws separate to one another. Before the acquisition by Frederick III in 1660, supplementary laws were introduced. During the rule of Christain V, a thorough process of codification took place, with the earlier laws being replaced by Christain V’s Danish Law (1683) and Norwegian Law (1687). These new laws were predominantly based on the existing laws of the two counties with influences of Germanic and Roman laws being fairly minor. Similar to the earlier laws, these new laws consisted of both public and private law. At the time of their drafting, these codes read well and reflected individual human rights and the ideologies of equality. Further, in comparison to the laws of other European countries, the criminal law provisions were fair, humane and reflected individual rights. \n\nIn Sweden, the laws issued by King Christopher in 1442 were affirmed by Charles IX in 1608. However, following the Danish-Norwegian reforms, a royal commission was assembled to draft a modern new code. The result being, “the Law of 1734”, declared by Frederick I. Held by Sweden in the 13th century, Finland followed the Swedish law of 1734, which was translated in Finnish as “Law of the Realm of Finland”.\n\nIn most of the five Nordic States, the old codes have developed by parliamentary statutes. However, in Sweden, the law of 1734 is still regarded as a formal framework. In the other countries, codes are no longer of importance, rather, comprehensive codification of public and private law holds importance. \n\nWhile the historic codes still hold significance in Scandinavia today, the developments in modern Scandinavia has led to growth in Scandinavian civil law by way of statutes. Although the five Nordic countries follow similar legal theories, they have developed their own legal standards. Nonetheless, the countries follow an agreement to cooperate on legislative matters. \n\nSince 1872 when the agreement was entered into, the organised legislative cooperation in Scandinavian law has progressively increased in significance. As such, the Nordic states have achieved uniform legislation, in fields of contracts, commerce, family, nation and extradition. \n\nScandinavian legal systems adopted their civil law conceptions through the influence of law schools and commercial and corporations law are similar to European laws. Further, modern social welfare and human rights legislation has strong connections with the international laws. Scandinavian law, with a foundation of its customary laws, is pliable and less authoritarian than other European legal systems as it is relatively less restrictive. The laws focus greatly on rules, principles and precedents that have developed in practice, especially in courts. Further, most laws are judge-made, and as the principle of stare decisis does not apply, the courts are open to reflect the ever-changing social conditions.\n\nAlthough each Nordic state follows either a common or civil law system, it is proclaimed that these Scandinavian countries have adopted jurisprudence that falls neither in the civil law system nor the common law system.\n\nAll five of the Nordic states have their own respective Constitutions upon which their legislative framework is based upon. Whilst these Constitutions are all separate in nature, due to the legal cooperation between the Scandinavian states, the Constitutions are similar in their aims and contribute to the laws holistically.\n\nNorway’s legal system is a civil law system. Therefore, legislation is the predominant source of law, however not the sole one. According to legal scholar and author Torstein Eckhoff, there are seven sources of Norwegian law, including:\n\n1. Legislation;\n2. Legislative history;\n3. Case law;\n4. Administrative practice;\n5. Customary law;\n6. Legal literature; and\n7. Equity\n\nDue to the Nordic legal cooperation, this list is not exhaustive. Laws are informed and correspond to the other Scandinavian states. The three distinctive sections of Norwegian law are the Constitution, then ordinary statutes and followed by the regulations derived from statutes \nNorway adopted its Constitution in 1814 and holds the position of the second oldest hand-written Constitution in the world which is still in use. The Constitution consists of a set of Norwegian laws based upon the legal principles of sovereignty, the separation and division of powers and universal human rights. \n\nThe Constitution forms three distinctive branches of government, including:\n\n1. Legislative power vested in the Storting;\n2. Executive power vested in the King in Council, Regjeringen; and\n3. Judicial power vested in the Supreme Court, the subsidiary courts and in the Court of Impeachment.\n\nArticle 49 and 75 of the Constitution highlight the principles of sovereignty whereby it states that the people of Norway issue laws, make decisions regarding the states’ funds, impose taxes and supervise authorities, including the Government, by way of the Storting.\n\nStated within Article 3 of the Constitution, the executive power is held by the King, or the Queen. However, according to Article 27, Royal laws are adopted by the King in Council. Such laws are validated by the Prime Minister, the political leadership upon which the constitutional and senatorial responsibility is bestowed. \n\nPublished by the Faculty of Law in Oslo and Fagbokforlaget, Norges Lover Norway’s most comprehensive code of law. It consists of one volume published annually and used by law students, legal professional and officers of the court. The code contains the Constitution, legislation in force, adopted legislation yet to take effect and also pre-1814 legislation which is still valid and in force. \n\nAs the Storting only passes entirely new Acts and abolishes the old Acts, amendments to legislation are integrated in the existing statutes. The Norges Lover follows a chronological order by date of enactment, excluding the Constitution, which is placed at the front of the code.\n\nSwedish law is a civil law system manifested on statutory laws. \n\nSweden’s Constitution consists of the four “fundamental laws”, consisting of:\n\n1. The Instrument of Government (1974);\n2. The Act of Succession (1810);\n3. The Freedom of the Press Act (1949); and\n4. The Fundamental Law on Freedom of Expression (1991)\n\nFurther to the above, there is also the Riksdag Act which translates to the Parliament Act (1974), however this is not classified as a law fundamental to the state. \n\nThe fundamental laws take precedence over all other laws. The written Constitution regulates the Riksdag – the Swedish Parliament, the appointing of Government officials and it sets out the key ways in which Sweden’s authorities shall function. \n\nThe Swedish Code of Statutes is Sweden’s official compilation of all laws enacted by the Riksdag and regulations issued by the Government. \n\nThis Code is enacted into statutory law, however it forms its own unified legal code containing all of the laws passed by the Government, including civil and criminal law, procedure, regulations, legal information and all other legal articles pertinent to Sweden. Although Sweden follows a civil law system, this Code of Statutes combines both statutory and civil law. The Code is amended frequently and amendments are integrated to the existing statutes. Similar to Norway, Sweden’s Constitution is placed at the front of its Code of Statutes.\n\nFinnish laws and legal traditions are influenced by Swedish law and holistically also the Scandinavian and German legal families. Based on civil law tradition, the law of Finland consists mostly of statutory law enacted by the Parliament of Finland. Finland’s Constitution takes supreme authority and sets out the procedures and guidelines for the application of legislation. Similar to other civil law systems, judicial decisions are generally not authoritative in nature and there is often not many judge-made laws. Further, Supreme Court decisions may be cited, however they are not actually binding. \n\nBeing a member of the European Union, Finland enacts many European Union laws and implements the European Union directives in its national laws. \nFinland’s Constitution came into force in 2000 and aims to regulate legislation and the manner in which government power is exercised. It specifies the primary rules, values and principles of the Finnish government and democracy. Furthermore, it details the significance of the relationship between the citizen and the government. In relation to the government, the Constitution governs the use of government power, the government organisation and the authorities and organs of the government.\n\nThe Danish legal system is a combination of public and civil law. This mix of law suggests that Danish law focuses on societal interests and also that the states organs are vested with greater authority than the courts in applying legal frameworks. \n\nThe legal system primarily consists of statutory regulation, principles and laws. Similar to the other Nordic states, although the courts have authority to create laws, the statutory law is supplemented by customary law and case law. Alike all other Scandinavian countries, the Constitution of Denmark is at the top of the legal hierarchy.\n\nAdopted in 1953, the principle aim of Denmark’s Constitution was to abolish monarchy by limiting the King’s power and introduce a system of democracy. It establishes the framework for governance by way of structure, procedure, power and the duties bestowed on the Danish Parliament. \n\nThe Danish Parliament known is not permitted to make laws which may invalidate or contradict the Constitutional Act. Although Denmark does not have a court to try constitutional matters, laws can be declared unconstitutional and void by the judgment of the Supreme Court of Denmark. \n\nIceland has a civil law system and therefore its main sources of law include the Constitution, statutory legislation and regulatory statutes. Complementing sources include precedent and customary laws followed by Scandinavia. \n\nThe most recent Constitution of Iceland is of 1999. It is regarded as the supreme law of Iceland and highlights the leadership structures of the country and preserves the human rights of its citizens.\n\nApart from the Constitution from which it is influenced and regulated, legislation in Iceland takes primacy as a source of law. The increasing propensity of social, economic and political trends has resulted in a greater significance of laws by way of new general acts targeting niche sectors such as customs, respect of children, banking, communication and corporations’ laws. \n\nThe Stockholm Institute for Scandinavian Law (SISL) proclaims that as all of the Nordic states follow the civil law system, Scandinavian law as a whole should be classified as civil law as opposed to common law. Due to the fact that common law has taken little precedence in the development of law in the Nordic countries and additionally that all legal concepts presently adopted in Scandinavian law have been derived from the civil Germanic law, the SISL views Scandinavian law as a civil law system.\n"}
{"id": "12933314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12933314", "title": "Seven Wonders of Ukraine", "text": "Seven Wonders of Ukraine\n\nThe Seven Wonders of Ukraine ( ) are the seven historical and cultural monuments of Ukraine, which were chosen in the \"Seven Wonders of Ukraine\" contest held in July, 2007. This was the first public contest of that kind which was followed by the Seven Natural Wonders of Ukraine, the Seven Wonderful Routes of Ukraine, and the Seven Wonderful Castles of Ukraine. All nominated sites are publicly owned protected areas of at least regional level, available for tourism.\n\nThe voting for all contests consisted of two parts: experts in Ukraine voted for their seven best sites, and internet users voted for their seven favorite sites on the official website.\n\nThe initiative was started by (one of the) deputy chairman of Verkhovna Rada Mykola Tomenko under the motto \"Piznai Ukrainu!\" (Discover Ukraine). The initiative was a continuation of numerous preceding public actions that took place in various regions of Ukraine such as \"Kupala's games at the native land of Gogol\" (Poltava region), \"Starry autumn in Kachanivka\" (Chernihiv region), \"Let's discover island Khortutsia\" (Zaporizhia region), \"Maslyana in Bukovyna\" (Chernivtsi region), \"Amber legends of Rivne region\", \"Day of Europe at the native land of Lesya Ukrainka\" (Volyn region), and others.\n\nThe next stage of the initiative was the organization of the Seven Natural Wonders of Ukraine in 2008.\n\nAmong the other members of the organization committee were \n\n\nLocal and provincial (oblast) authorities composed a list of 1,000 possible candidates. An expert council consisting of 100 people, including culturologists, historians, and tourist specialists, chose a list of 21 candidates from which people on the internet could vote.\n\nVoting on the 21 possible candidates was opened on July 7, 2007. A total of around 77,000 internet users voted in the campaign. The voting was closed on August 21, 2007 and the results were officially announced on the same day. The campaign was initiated in May 2007 by Mykola Tomenko a Ukrainian politician and the deputy of the Parliament of Ukraine of the fifth convocation.\n\nEach manager of a winning nomination was awarded a statue of their candidate made out of green marble, matte steel, and gold-mirror acrylic paint.\n\nThree objects from the nomination list needed a special nomination:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24428397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24428397", "title": "Tokyo Majin Gakuen", "text": "Tokyo Majin Gakuen\n\nThe franchise began June 16, 1998 with the release of the PlayStation game . It proved to be the first in the \"Gakuen Denki\" game series in Japan. The established universe, story, comics, and general term are shared under joint ownership, with managing creator Shuuhou Imai (今井秋芳) at the helm. Sales agency and production is handled by Asmik Ace Entertainment and Shout! Design Works.\n\n"}
{"id": "910058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=910058", "title": "Truth-conditional semantics", "text": "Truth-conditional semantics\n\nTruth-conditional semantics is an approach to semantics of natural language that sees meaning (or at least the meaning of assertions) as being the same as, or reducible to, their truth conditions. This approach to semantics is principally associated with Donald Davidson, and attempts to carry out for the semantics of natural language what Tarski's semantic theory of truth achieves for the semantics of logic (Davidson 1967).\n\nTruth-conditional theories of semantics attempt to define the meaning of a given proposition by explaining when the sentence is true. So, for example, because 'snow is white' is true if and only if snow is white, the meaning of 'snow is white' is snow is white.\n\nThe first truth-conditional semantics was developed by Donald Davidson in \"Truth and Meaning\" (1967). It applied Tarski's semantic theory of truth to a problem it was not intended to solve, that of giving the meaning of a sentence.\n\nScott Soames has harshly criticized truth-conditional semantics on the grounds that it is either wrong or uselessly circular.\n\nUnder its traditional formulation, truth-conditional semantics gives every necessary truth precisely the same meaning, for all of them are true under precisely the same conditions (namely, all of them). And since the truth conditions of any unnecessarily true sentence are equivalent to the conjunction of those truth conditions and any necessary truth, any sentence means the same as its meaning plus a necessary truth. For example, if \"\"snow is white\" is true if snow is white\", then it is trivially the case that \"\"snow is white\" is true if snow is white and 2+2=4\", therefore under truth-conditional semantics \"snow is white\" means both that snow is white and that 2+2=4. That is wrong. Of course, it is not the case, trivially or otherwise, that such a consequence follows.\n\nSoames argues further that reformulations that attempt to account for this problem must beg the question. In specifying precisely \"which\" of the infinite number of truth-conditions for a sentence will count towards its meaning, one must take the meaning of the sentence as a guide. However, we wanted to specify meaning with truth-conditions, whereas now we are specifying truth-conditions with meaning, rendering the entire process fruitless.\n\nMichael Dummett (1975) has objected to Davidson's program on the grounds that such a theory of meaning will not explain what it is a speaker has to know in order for them to understand a sentence. Dummett believes a speaker must know three components of a sentence to understand its meaning: a theory of sense, indicating the part of the meaning that the speaker grasps; a theory of reference, which indicates what claims about the world are made by the sentence, and a theory of force, which indicates what kind of speech act the expression performs. Dummett further argues that a theory based on inference, such as Proof-theoretic semantics, provides a better foundation for this model than truth-conditional semantics does.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28871118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28871118", "title": "Ulek mayang", "text": "Ulek mayang\n\nUlek Mayang (Jawi: اولق مايڠ) is a classical Malay dance from the state of Terengganu in Malaysia.It is a ritualistic dance performed to appease or invoke the spirits of the sea and is always accompanied by a unique song also called Ulek Mayang. An orchestra comprising drums, gong, violin and accordion accompanies the dance.\n\nThe Ulek Mayang is said to have its origin in an ancient tale about a sea-princess who fell in love with a fisherman. The princess abducted the fisherman's soul, leaving his body unconscious. His friends entreated a bomoh (shaman) to heal him. When the bomoh conducted the healing ritual to bring the fisherman's soul back, the princess appeared and responded by calling on five of her sisters to her aid. The battle between the bomoh and the six princesses continued until the seventh and the eldest princess appeared and put an end to it.\n\n\"I know your origins,” says the eldest princess, and she commands everyone, \"Let those from the sea return to the sea, and those from the land return to the land.\"\n\nThe grateful bomoh and the fisherman’s friends present the princess with coloured rice as an offering to the spirits of the sea. This practice, along with the Ulek Mayang dance, continued until the Islamization movement of recent decades.\n\nThe Ulek Mayang song which accompanies the dance narrates the story. Tradition holds that the song is supernatural in nature because it gives chills, especially when performed at sunset by the beach. However, the song remains popular and there are numerous contemporary renditions of it. Malaysian rock diva, Ella recorded a rock version, while the thrash metal band Cromok produced several instrumental versions of the song. The song maintains some of the traditional Terengganu pronunciation. Note that \"mayang\" is a coconut-palm blossom used to chase away spirits.\n"}
{"id": "8548950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8548950", "title": "Unreasonable ineffectiveness of mathematics", "text": "Unreasonable ineffectiveness of mathematics\n\nThe unreasonable ineffectiveness of mathematics is a phrase that alludes to the article by physicist Eugene Wigner, \"The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural Sciences\". This phrase is meant to suggest that mathematical analysis has not proved as valuable in other fields as it has in physics.\n\nI. M. Gelfand, a mathematician who worked in biomathematics and molecular biology, as well as many other fields in applied mathematics, is quoted as stating,\n\nAn opposing view is given by Leonard Adleman, a theoretical computer scientist who pioneered the field of DNA computing. In Adleman's view, \"Sciences reach a point where they become mathematized,\" starting at the fringes but eventually \"the central issues in the field become sufficiently understood that they can be thought about mathematically. It occurred in physics about the time of the Renaissance; it began in chemistry after John Dalton developed atomic theory\" and by the 1990s was taking place in biology. By the early 1990s, \"Biology was no longer the science of things that smelled funny in refrigerators (my view from undergraduate days in the 1960s). The field was undergoing a revolution and was rapidly acquiring the depth and power previously associated exclusively with the physical sciences. Biology was now the study of information stored in DNA - strings of four letters: A, T, G, and C..and the transformations that information undergoes in the cell. There was mathematics here!\"\n\nK. Vela Velupillai wrote of \"The unreasonable ineffectiveness of mathematics in economics\". To him \"the headlong rush with which economists have equipped themselves with a half-baked knowledge of mathematical traditions has led to an un-natural mathematical economics and a non-numerical economic theory.\" His argument is built on the claim that\n\nSergio M. Focardi and Frank J. Fabozzi, on the other hand, have acknowledged that \"economic science is generally considered less viable than the physical sciences\" and that \"sophisticated mathematical models of the economy have been developed but their accuracy is questionable to the point that the 2007–08 economic crisis is often blamed on an unwarranted faith in faulty mathematical models\". They nevertheless claim that\n\nRoberto Poli of McGill University delivered a number of lectures entitled \"The unreasonable ineffectiveness of mathematics in cognitive sciences\" in 1999. The abstract is:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6512571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6512571", "title": "Yös exam", "text": "Yös exam\n\nThe YÖS Examination is an entrance examination designed for foreign students wishing to study in higher education institutions in Turkey.\n\nThis examination was set and administered by the Student Selection and Placement Centre (ÖSYM) until 2010, when universities began conducting their own versions of the exam. The results of this exam apply only for students wishing to enrol in undergraduate programmes. Students presently enrolled in undergraduate programmes who seek a transfer, and also those who wish to follow postgraduate programmes, should apply directly to the institutions of their choice.\n\nThe YÖS Examination is composed of two tests:\n\n\nApproximately 9,200 candidates from various countries take the YÖS Examination.\n\n"}
{"id": "18338833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18338833", "title": "Zuni phonology", "text": "Zuni phonology\n\nThis article discusses the phonology of the Zuni language, spoken in the southwestern United States.\n\nThe 16 consonants of Zuni:\n\n\n\nZuni syllables have the following specification:\n\nThat is, all syllables must start with a consonant in the syllable onset. The onset may optionally have two consonants. The syllable coda is optional and may consist of a single consonant or two consonants. There are restrictions on the combinations with long vowels, which are listed below.\n\n\"Onset\". When the onset is a single consonant (i.e., CV(ː), CV(ː)C, or CV(ː)CC), C may be any consonant. When the onset is a two consonant cluster (i.e., CCV(ː), CCV(ː)C, or CCV(ː)CC), C may only be , and C may only be . These onset clusters can occur word-initially.\n\n\"Nucleus\". Any vowel of either length may be the syllable nucleus when open (i.e., has no coda: CV(ː) or CCV(ː)) or with a single consonant coda (i.e., CV(ː)C or CCV(ː)C). When the coda consists of two consonant cluster, the nucleus may be any short vowel; however, long vowels only occur with coda consisting of .\n\n\"Coda\". A single coda C may be any consonant. When the coda is a two consonant cluster (i.e., CV(ː)CC or CCV(ː)CC), any combination of consonants may occur with the following exception: if C is , then C can only be either or an identical consonant (C = C).\n\n\"Non-tautosyllabic combinations\". Inside words, a short vowel plus a two consonant coda (i.e., CVCC or CCVCC) may only be followed by a syllable with a onset. Likewise, a long vowel plus a single consonant coda (i.e., CVːC or CCVːC) may only be followed by a onset. An open syllable (i.e., CV(ː) or CCV(ː)) and a short vowel plus a single consonant coda (i.e., CVC or CCVC) may be followed by a syllable with any possible onset.\n\nAt the word level, the first syllable of lexical words receive stress. Although the acoustic correlates of stress are not fully described in Newman's grammar, at least vowel length is a significant correlate: short vowels are lengthened under syllable-initial stress. Stressed long vowels do not appear to have perceptible variation in duration.\n\nStress at the phrase level was not fully studied by Newman, and, therefore, its details are not well known. Pronouns and certain particles consisting of a single syllable are unstressed when inside clauses, but are stressed at the beginning of phrases.\n\n\n"}
