{"id": "58552847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58552847", "title": "1973 Meat Boycott", "text": "1973 Meat Boycott\n\nThe 1973 Meat Boycott was a week long national boycott in the United States to protest the rapidly increasing meat prices. It took place from 1 to 8 April 1973.\n\nMeat prices began to rise in late 1972. The Consumer price index published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics attributed this price increase to poor weather conditions, which increased the price for grain and animal feed, rising domestic demand, and unusually high export demand for pork due to the dollar devaluation in mid-February. Meat prices had risen 5.4 percent in a month, poultry and fish 5 percent and all retail food prices 2.4 percent, and that all consumer prices had risen seven‐tenths of one percent. \n\nThe boycott rose out of small, local organizations of consumers across the country as prices for meat rose dramatically. These groups were primarily female led, as women traditionally bought the groceries for their households, and these groups grew both from people that only joined together around this issue and already existing women's and community groups.\n\nThe boycott included both abstention from buying and cooking meat as well as active protests. The protest was observed by more women than men, as men continued to eat meat that was bought before the boycott took effect.\n\nAccording to some, the boycott was successful in lowering meat prices for a short period of time, although the New York Times reported that there was \"no significant decline in meat prices.\" That being said, in the Time Magazine cover story for April 9, 1973, the boycott was called, \"the most successful boycott by women since Lysistrata,\" and the public pressure pushed President Nixon to enforce price ceilings on beef, pork and lamb. The leaders supported continued boycotts of meat, specifically by refusing to cook or eat meat on Tuesdays and Thursdays.\n\nRalph Nader wrote that consumers would become more aware of their ability to advocate for and control food policy. Others wrote that \"housewife activism\" and women's groups' power gained more recognition, and the boycott's primary lasting effect was as a \"consciousness-raising experience\".\n"}
{"id": "43099669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43099669", "title": "2014 Colchester murders", "text": "2014 Colchester murders\n\nOn 29 March 2014, 33-year-old James Attfield, who had a brain injury after a previous car accident in 2010, was stabbed to death in Colchester, Essex. Three months later, on 17 June, Nahid Almanea, a 31-year-old Saudi student of the University of Essex, was also stabbed to death. Teenager James Fairweather was apprehended while planning a third murder in May 2015, and in January 2016 he pleaded responsible for both deaths. In April 2016 he was found guilty of both murders and sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 27 years.\n\nJames Fairweather was 15 years old when he committed his murders, and 17 at his conviction. He attended Colchester Academy. He was bullied for his prominent ears. At school, he was involved in violent incidents, but none to suggest that he would become a murderer. He was in the lowest sets of each class, and classmates recalled him choosing \"murderer\" when asked to explain his desired career, as well as threatening a Columbine-style massacre in the final assembly; his peers brushed this off as posturing.\n\nFairweather was convicted of knifepoint robbery of cigars in January 2014, and sentenced to a year's supervision. He was also convicted of criminal damage of a house in 2013.\n\nAttfield, a father-of-five with brain damage after a car accident, was passing through Castle Park when he was attacked by Fairweather. He was found bleeding to death by paramedics, who could not save his life. The violence committed towards him startled the police, and the BBC decided that the details were too \"gruesome to describe\". In court, Fairweather said that voices had chosen Attfield to be his victim, and the voices began to laugh as he stabbed him.\n\nAlmanea was killed in overgrowth on Salary Brook Trail near her home. He stabbed her in the abdomen before forcing the knife into her eyes and ultimately her brain, so that she could not \"see evil\".\n\nEssex Police questioned 70 locals with a history of knife crime, including Fairweather, who gave an alibi and was not questioned further.\n\n, more than 900 potential witnesses had been interviewed. Det Supt Hawkings, Head of Major Crimes for Essex Police called the attack \"brazen\" for occurring in a public space where passersby were likely. Police said that despite no firm evidence, one line of enquiry was a possible hate crime. During the trial, by which time it was known that Almanea and Attfield were killed by the same person, it was announced that both had been selected randomly. Premature assumptions that it was a hate crime led the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) to threaten revenge attacks, using the Twitter hashtag #Colchester.\n\nThe fact that Almanea and Attfield were unconnected people, and had been killed at different times of the day, led to a line of investigation that there could have been two separate killers. Fewer people went out in Colchester in public, and overgrowth was cleared to remove hiding places.\n\nFairweather did not attempt another murder for over a year because the public were wary of the danger: on 27 May 2015 he was spotted loitering early in the morning by a concerned dogwalker. The police were called and interviewed Fairweather, who was wearing rubber-gripped gloves and bearing a knife. He was arrested. In August 2015, he told a psychiatrist some of the \"most anti-social and violent thoughts\" the professional had heard, saying that voices were telling him to burn babies and maim prostitutes. Searches of Fairweather's possessions included documentaries about serial killers such as the Yorkshire Ripper, but prosecutor Paul Scothern clarified that not all people with such interests are intent on imitating the killers.\n\nAt the Old Bailey the following January, his name not disclosed to the public for reasons of age, he denied two charges of murder and possessing an illegal weapon, but admitted to two charges of manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. Fairweather claimed to have psychosis, which was not found by a court psychiatrist. However, all four psychiatrists who testified agreed that Fairweather suffered from an autistic spectrum disorder. He was found unanimously guilty by the jury on 22 April 2016, and was to be sentenced a week later, with Judge Robin Spencer, QC, saying that the minimum sentence would be 12 years.\n\nAfter the conviction, Attfield's mother Julie decried Fairweather as a \"monster\", condemning his cruelty to her son.\n\nOn 29 April 2016, Fairweather was sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum of 27 years.\n"}
{"id": "1619756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1619756", "title": "Abner Zwillman", "text": "Abner Zwillman\n\nAbner \"Longie\" Zwillman (July 27, 1904 – February 27, 1959) was a Jewish American mob boss, mainly active during Prohibition, operating primarily in North Jersey.\n\nIt is believed that Zwillman was born on July 27, 1904, in Newark, New Jersey. He was forced to quit school in order to support his family after his father's death in 1918. Zwillman first began working at a Prince Street cafe, the headquarters of a local alderman in Newark's Third Ward. However, in need of more money, Zwillman was eventually forced to quit, later selling fruits and vegetables in his neighborhood with a rented horse and wagon.\n\nZwillman was unable to compete with the cheaper Prince Street pushcarts, however, so he moved to the more upper-class neighborhood of Clinton Hill, where he began selling lottery tickets to local housewives. He observed that much more money was made selling lottery tickets than produce, so he concentrated on selling lottery tickets through local merchants. By 1920, Zwillman controlled the bulk of the numbers racket with the help of hired muscle.\n\nAt the start of Prohibition, Zwillman began smuggling whiskey into New Jersey through Canada, using several World War I armored trucks. Zwillman later joined a syndicate headed by Joseph Reinfeld to smuggle liquor from Canada using ships. They were reputed to have controlled 40% of liquor smuggling. Zwillman used this revenue to greatly expand his operations in illegal gambling, prostitution, and labor racketeering, as well as legitimate businesses, including several prominent night clubs and restaurants.\n\nIn 1929, he was sent to prison for six months, for assaulting an associate. It was the only crime for which he was ever convicted.\n\nZwillman dated actress Jean Harlow at one time and got her a two-picture deal at Columbia Pictures by giving its head, Harry Cohn, a huge loan. He also bought Harlow a jeweled bracelet and a red Cadillac. He referred to her in derogatory terms to other mobsters in secret surveillance recordings. He married Mary de Groot Mendels Steinbach, in 1939. She was the only daughter of Eugene Mendels, whose father, Emanuel S. Mendels, was a founder of the American Stock Exchange (then known as the Curb Exchange). The Zwillmans had a daughter, Lynn Kathryn Zwillman born c. 1944. Mary Zwillman had a son from previous marriage, who became Abner Zwillman's stepson.\n\nAfter Dutch Schultz's murder in 1935, Zwillman took over those of Schultz's criminal operations that were in New Jersey. The press began calling Zwillman the \"Al Capone of New Jersey.\" However, Zwillman often sought to legitimize his image, offering a reward for the return of the Lindbergh baby in 1932, and contributed to charities, including $250,000 to a Newark slum-clearing project.\n\nShortly after taking over Schultz's operations, Zwillman became involved in local politics, eventually controlling the majority of local politicians in Newark for over twenty years. During the 1940s Zwillman, along with long-time associate Willie Moretti, dominated gambling operations in New Jersey, in particular the Marine Room inside Zwillman's Riviera nightclub, The Palisades.\n\nIn 1951, Zwillman's activities were a major focus by the Kefauver Committee on organized crime. While Zwillman acknowledged that he was a bootlegger during Prohibition, he insisted that his subsequent businesses were legitimate.\n\nZwillman was also close to many celebrities, including Joe DiMaggio. When Zwillman was being investigated by the Kefauver Committee along with other alleged \"Outfit\" members he reportedly planted three trunks full of money with DiMaggio to hide it from the IRS. It was not returned after Zwillman's death.\n\nIn 1956, Zwillman was tried for income tax evasion. However, the jury became deadlocked on the charges and the jury was dismissed. However, several associates of Zwillman were subsequently arrested and charged with bribing two of the jurors.\n\nDuring the 1959 McClellan Senate Committee hearings on organized crime, Zwillman was issued a subpoena to testify before the committee. However, shortly before he was to appear, Zwillman was found hanged in his West Orange, New Jersey, residence on February 27, 1959. He was buried the same day, after a funeral attended by 1,850, including celebrities and his 80-year-old mother, Ella.\n\nZwillman's death was ruled a suicide, attributed to intractable income tax and health problems. His stepson, John Steinbach, said that he was also depressed about Senate investigations into jukebox racketeering and a jury tampering investigation, related to a previous failed attempt to prosecute him.\n\nHowever, police found bruises on Zwillman's wrists, supporting a theory that Zwillman had been tied up before being hanged. It is often speculated that Vito Genovese had ordered Zwillman killed. Others have alleged that Meyer Lansky, suspecting that the New Jersey gangster had agreed to become a government informant, gave permission for the Italian Mafia to take action against Zwillman. The theory that he was hanged was also supported by deported mobster Charles \"Lucky\" Luciano, who allegedly told journalist Martin Gosch in Italy that the suicide theory was nonsense, and that before hanging him, Zwillman's killers had trussed him up like a pig. Martin Gosch's biography (which he co-authored with Richard Hammer) of Lucky Luciano is somewhat controversial and considered fictional by many mob experts. However, the authors have claimed that the contents are entirely based on interviews with Luciano, who died before the book was ever published.\n\nHis widow remarried three years later, to sports figure Harry Wismer. His daughter Lynn married Warren Tuttle in 1968.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25747578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25747578", "title": "Andy Allison", "text": "Andy Allison\n\nAndrew Kent Allison (1848 – March 21, 1897) was a professional baseball player who played first base in Major League Baseball for the 1872 Brooklyn Eckfords. He was the older brother of Eckfords teammate Bill Allison.\n\nAllison was born in New York City, the son of Scottish immigrants James and Jane Allison. In 1871, he married Elizabeth Holzberger at Ainslie St Presbyterian Church in Brooklyn.\n"}
{"id": "349771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=349771", "title": "Artificial neuron", "text": "Artificial neuron\n\nAn artificial neuron is a mathematical function conceived as a model of biological neurons, a neural network. Artificial neurons are elementary units in an artificial neural network. The artificial neuron receives one or more inputs (representing excitatory postsynaptic potentials and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials at neural dendrites) and sums them to produce an output (or , representing a neuron's action potential which is transmitted along its axon). Usually each input is separately weighted, and the sum is passed through a non-linear function known as an activation function or transfer function. The transfer functions usually have a sigmoid shape, but they may also take the form of other non-linear functions, piecewise linear functions, or step functions. They are also often monotonically increasing, continuous, differentiable and bounded. The thresholding function has inspired building logic gates referred to as threshold logic; applicable to building logic circuits resembling brain processing. For example, new devices such as memristors have been extensively used to develop such logic in recent times.\n\nThe artificial neuron transfer function should not be confused with a linear system's transfer function.\n\nFor a given artificial neuron, let there be \"m\" + 1 inputs with signals \"x\" through \"x\" and weights \"w\" through \"w\". Usually, the \"x\" input is assigned the value +1, which makes it a \"bias\" input with \"w\" = \"b\". This leaves only \"m\" actual inputs to the neuron: from \"x\" to \"x\".\n\nThe output of the \"k\"th neuron is:\n\nWhere formula_2 (phi) is the transfer function.\n\nThe output is analogous to the axon of a biological neuron, and its value propagates to the input of the next layer, through a synapse. It may also exit the system, possibly as part of an output vector.\n\nIt has no learning process as such. Its transfer function weights are calculated and threshold value are predetermined.\n\nDepending on the specific model used they may be called a semi-linear unit, Nv neuron, binary neuron, linear threshold function, or McCulloch–Pitts (MCP) neuron.\n\nSimple artificial neurons, such as the McCulloch–Pitts model, are sometimes described as \"caricature models\", since they are intended to reflect one or more neurophysiological observations, but without regard to realism.\n\nArtificial neurons are designed to mimic aspects of their biological counterparts.\n\nUnlike most artificial neurons, however, biological neurons fire in discrete pulses. Each time the electrical potential inside the soma reaches a certain threshold, a pulse is transmitted down the axon. This pulsing can be translated into continuous values. The rate (activations per second, etc.) at which an axon fires converts directly into the rate at which neighboring cells get signal ions introduced into them. The faster a biological neuron fires, the faster nearby neurons accumulate electrical potential (or lose electrical potential, depending on the \"weighting\" of the dendrite that connects to the neuron that fired). It is this conversion that allows computer scientists and mathematicians to simulate biological neural networks using artificial neurons which can output distinct values (often from −1 to 1).\n\nResearch has shown that unary coding is used in the neural circuits responsible for birdsong production. The use of unary in biological networks is presumably due to the inherent simplicity of the coding. Another contributing factor could be that unary coding provides a certain degree of error correction.\n\nThe first artificial neuron was the Threshold Logic Unit (TLU), or Linear Threshold Unit, first proposed by Warren McCulloch and Walter Pitts in 1943. The model was specifically targeted as a computational model of the \"nerve net\" in the brain. As a transfer function, it employed a threshold, equivalent to using the Heaviside step function. Initially, only a simple model was considered, with binary inputs and outputs, some restrictions on the possible weights, and a more flexible threshold value. Since the beginning it was already noticed that any boolean function could be implemented by networks of such devices, what is easily seen from the fact that one can implement the AND and OR functions, and use them in the disjunctive or the conjunctive normal form.\nResearchers also soon realized that cyclic networks, with feedbacks through neurons, could define dynamical systems with memory, but most of the research concentrated (and still does) on strictly feed-forward networks because of the smaller difficulty they present.\n\nOne important and pioneering artificial neural network that used the linear threshold function was the perceptron, developed by Frank Rosenblatt. This model already considered more flexible weight values in the neurons, and was used in machines with adaptive capabilities. The representation of the threshold values as a bias term was introduced by Bernard Widrow in 1960 – see ADALINE.\n\nIn the late 1980s, when research on neural networks regained strength, neurons with more continuous shapes started to be considered. The possibility of differentiating the activation function allows the direct use of the gradient descent and other optimization algorithms for the adjustment of the weights. Neural networks also started to be used as a general function approximation model. The best known training algorithm called backpropagation has been rediscovered several times but its first development goes back to the work of Paul Werbos.\n\nThe transfer function (activation function) of a neuron is chosen to have a number of properties which either enhance or simplify the network containing the neuron. Crucially, for instance, any multilayer perceptron using a \"linear\" transfer function has an equivalent single-layer network; a non-linear function is therefore necessary to gain the advantages of a multi-layer network.\n\nBelow, \"u\" refers in all cases to the weighted sum of all the inputs to the neuron, i.e. for \"n\" inputs,\n\nwhere w is a vector of \"synaptic weights\" and x is a vector of inputs.\n\nThe output \"y\" of this transfer function is binary, depending on whether the input meets a specified threshold, \"θ\". The \"signal\" is sent, i.e. the output is set to one, if the activation meets the threshold.\n\nThis function is used in perceptrons and often shows up in many other models. It performs a division of the space of inputs by a hyperplane. It is specially useful in the last layer of a network intended to perform binary classification of the inputs. It can be approximated from other sigmoidal functions by assigning large values to the weights.\n\nIn this case, the output unit is simply the weighted sum of its inputs plus a \"bias\" term. A number of such linear neurons perform a linear transformation of the input vector. This is usually more useful in the first layers of a network. A number of analysis tools exist based on linear models, such as harmonic analysis, and they can all be used in neural networks with this linear neuron. The bias term allows us to make affine transformations to the data.\n\nSee: Linear transformation, Harmonic analysis, Linear filter, Wavelet, Principal component analysis, Independent component analysis, Deconvolution.\n\nA fairly simple non-linear function, the sigmoid function such as the logistic function also has an easily calculated derivative, which can be important when calculating the weight updates in the network. It thus makes the network more easily manipulable mathematically, and was attractive to early computer scientists who needed to minimize the computational load of their simulations. It was previously commonly seen in multilayer perceptrons. However, recent work has shown sigmoid neurons to be less effective than rectified linear neurons. The reason is that the gradients computed by the backpropagation algorithm tend to diminish towards zero as activations propagate through layers of sigmoidal neurons, making it difficult to optimize neural networks using multiple layers of sigmoidal neurons.\n\nIn the context of artificial neural networks, the rectifier is an activation function defined as the positive part of its argument:\n\nformula_5,\n\nwhere \"x\" is the input to a neuron. This is also known as a ramp function and is analogous to half-wave rectification in electrical engineering. \nThis activation function was first introduced to a dynamical network by Hahnloser et al. in a 2000 paper in Nature with strong biological motivations and mathematical justifications. It has been demonstrated for the first time in 2011 to enable better training of deeper networks, compared to the widely used activation functions prior to 2011, i.e., the logistic sigmoid (which is inspired by probability theory; see logistic regression) and its more practical counterpart, the hyperbolic tangent.\n\nThe following is a simple pseudocode implementation of a single TLU which takes boolean inputs (true or false), and returns a single boolean output when activated. An object-oriented model is used. No method of training is defined, since several exist. If a purely functional model were used, the class TLU below would be replaced with a function TLU with input parameters threshold, weights, and inputs that returned a boolean value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9054429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9054429", "title": "Autoassociative memory", "text": "Autoassociative memory\n\nAutoassociative memory, also known as auto-association memory or an autoassociation network, is any type of memory that enables one to retrieve a piece of data from only a tiny sample of itself.\n\nTraditional memory stores data at a unique address and can \"recall\" the data upon presentation of the complete unique address.\n\nAutoassociative memories are capable of retrieving a piece of data upon presentation of only partial information from \"that\" piece of data. Hopfield networks have been shown to act as autoassociative memory since they are capable of remembering data by observing a portion of that data.\n\nFor example, the sentence fragments presented below are sufficient for most humans to recall the missing information.\n\n\nMany readers will realize the missing information is in fact:\n\n\nThis demonstrates the capability of autoassociative networks to recall the whole by using some of its parts.\n\nHeteroassociative memories, on the other hand, can recall an associated piece of datum from \"one\" category upon presentation of data from \"another\" category.\n\nBidirectional associative memories (BAM) are artificial neural networks that have long been used for performing heteroassociative recall.\n\n"}
{"id": "58469254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58469254", "title": "CLEVER score", "text": "CLEVER score\n\nThe CLEVER (Cross Lipschitz Extreme Value for nEtwork Robustness) score is a way of measuring the robustness of an artificial neural network towards adversarial attacks.\nIt was developed by a team at the MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab and first presented at the 2018 International Conference on Learning Representations.\n"}
{"id": "53354629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53354629", "title": "CRISPR-Display", "text": "CRISPR-Display\n\nCRISPR-Display (CRISP-Disp) is a modification of the CRISPR/Cas9 (Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats) system for genome editing. The CRISPR/Cas9 system uses a short guide RNA (sgRNA) sequence to direct a \"Streptococcus pyogenes\" Cas9 nuclease, acting as a programmable DNA binding protein, to cleave DNA at a site of interest.\n\nCRISPR-Display, in contrast, uses a nuclease deficient Cas9 (dCas9) and an engineered sgRNA with aptameric accessory RNA domains, ranging from 100bp to 5kb, outside of the normal complimentary targeting sequence. The accessory RNA domains can be functional domains, such as long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), protein-binding motifs, or epitope tags for immunochemistry. This allows for investigation of the functionality of certain lncRNAs, and targeting of ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes to genomic loci.\n\nCRISPR-Display was first published in Nature Methods in July 2015, and developed by David M. Shechner, Ezgi Hacisuleyman, Scott T. Younger and John Rinn at Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), USA.\n\nThe CRISPR/Cas9 system is based on an adaptive immune system of prokaryotic organisms, and its use for genome editing was first proposed and developed in collaboration between Jennifer Doudna (University of California, Berkeley) and Emmanuelle Charpentier (Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology, Germany). The method, and its application in editing human cells, was published in Science on August 17, 2012. In January 2013, the Feng Zhang lab at the Broad Institute at MIT published another method in Science, having further optimized the sgRNA structure and expression for use in mammalian cells. By the beginning of 2014, almost 2500 studies mentioning CRISPR in their title has been published.\n\nNon-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) are RNA transcripts that are not translated into a protein product, but instead exert their function as RNA molecules. They are involved in a range of processes, like post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression, genomic imprinting, and regulating the chromatin state, and thereby the expression, of a given locus. Many ncRNAs have been discovered, but in many cases, their function has yet to be accurately dissected due to technical challenges. ncRNA function is often not affected by introducing point mutations and premature stop codons. ncRNAs are also thought to regulate gene expression, so deletion studies have a hard time distinguishing effects of ncRNA loss from effects of gene misregulation due to the deletion. Studies of ncRNAs have also lacked the throughput necessary for discerning the RNA based functionality. To meet these challenges, the Rinn lab therefore developed a synthetic biology approach, using CRISPR/Cas9 system, with the Cas9 acting as a conduit, to target ncRNA modules to ectopic genomic locations, and investigating the ncRNAs effects on reporter genes and other genomic features at that site.\n\nCRISPR-Disp modifies the CRISPR/Cas9 technology by using a catalytically inactive, i.e. nuclease deficient, Cas9 mutant (dCas9), and altering the RNA used for targeting Cas9 to a genomic location.\n\nSince sgRNAs are usually expressed by RNA polymerase III, which limits the length of the RNA domain that can be inserted, CRISPR-Display incorporates RNA polymerase II to permit expression of longer transcripts (~80-250 nucleotides) to overcome this limitation. CRISPR-Display can therefore add larger RNA domains, like natural and lncRNA domains, without affecting dCas9 localization.\n\nThe sgRNA is engineered with an aptameric accessory RNA domain in the sequence outside of the targeting sequence. In the development of the technique, five model cofactors with different topology constructs were used: TOP1-4 and INT with an accessory domain (P4-P6 domain) at different positions, including the 5’ and 3’ end and internally within the sgRNA. Each domain contained a stem-loop that can be recognized by a PP7 bacteriophage coat protein. The complex was delivered into mammalian cells (HEK293FT cells) by a lentiviral vector.\n\nTo ensure that the attached RNA module both retains targeting functionality as well as the resulting complex drive transcriptional activation at a specific site of interest, transient reporter gene expression of luciferase and fluorescent protein was measured. Two variations of such a transcription activator assay was performed; directly with a dCas9 fused to a transcriptional activator/repressor (VP64, a factor known to enhance gene expression) (Direct activation) or indirectly where the transcriptional activator is fused to an RNA binding protein module on the sgRNA (Bridged activation). Reporter gene activation through direct activation imply the sgRNA variant binds and targets dCas9 efficiently. All the five topologies showed direct activation except TOP3 and TOP4, which showed reduced activity. Bridged activation indicates that the fused RNA accessory domain is intact in mature dCas9 complexes. Bridged activation was observed with TOP1, TOP3 and INT. The results were recapitulated at endogenous loci by targeting minimal sgRNA and selective expanded topologies (TOP1 and INT) to human ASCL1, IL1RN, NTF3 and TTN promoters. Direct and bridged activation were observed by qRT-PCR for each construct proving that CRISP-Disp allows deployment of large RNA domains to genomic loci.\n\nThe effect of internal (stem-loop) insertion size on dCas9 complex was assessed using INT-like constructs with cassettes of PP7 stem loops with a size range from 25 nt to 247 nt. Each construct induced significant activation in the reporter assays signifying that internal insertion size does not influence the dCas9 complex function. Similarly, the effect of internal insert sequence was also determined through a set of unique sgRNA variants displaying cassettes of 25 random nucleotides. Reporter assays and RIP-Seq confirmed that sequence does not govern complex efficacy.\n\nThe utility of CRISP-Disp was explored with an array of functional RNA domains such as natural protein binding motifs, artificial aptamers and small molecules with varying size. While all the complexes were functional and viable, and successfully deployed the RNA domains at endogenous loci, the efficacy changed with length and expression levels. This suggests that optimization of structure and sequence might be important required before designing the construct.\n\nTo determine if artificial lncRNA scaffolds can be used with CRISPR-Display, dCas9 complexes were assembled with artificial RNA with a size comparable to lncRNAs. The constructs were expanded to ~650nt size with an additional P4-P6 domain with hairpin loops that can be recognized by another phage coat protein, MS2. These topology constructs were called double TOP0-2 with the two domains either together at 5’ or 3’end or separately at each end. Transient reporter assays followed by confirmation with RNA Immunoprecipitation sequencing (RIP-qPCR) showed that all the three constructs retained both the domains in the complex.\n\nThis was also tested with natural lncRNA domains by building Pol II-driven TOP1 and INT constructs fused with human lncRNA domains. lncRNAs used had lengths between ~90-4800 nt, and included the NoRC-binding pRNA, three enhancer-transcribed RNAs (eRNAs) FALEC, TRERNA1 and ncRNA-a3), \"Xist\" A-repeat (RepA), and the 4,799-nt transcriptional activator \"HOTTIP\". While all the constructs showed significant direct activation, it decreased with increasing lncRNA-sgRNA length. These lncRNA domains could regulate the reporters independent of dCas9 with pRNA and RepA repressing the GLuc reporter expression (repressors) and TRERNA1, ncRNA-a3 and HOTTIP inducing activation (activators), but were properly targeted to an ectopic location of interest by using the CRISP-Disp system.\n\nThus, CRISP-Disp enables control of gene expression with deployment of both artificial scaffolds as well as natural lncRNA domains.\n\nCRISPR-Display allows for previously unavailable studies of lncRNA functionality, artificial ncRNA functionalization, recruitment of endogenous and engineered proteins to genomic loci, and locus affinity tagging for cell imaging. \nCRISPR-Display allows targeted localization of natural lncRNAs to ectopic sites for investigation of their function. Exposing various ectopic DNA loci to natural lncRNAs can help show the effects of lncRNAs on gene expression and chromatin state, and help dissect the mechanism of such effects. One of the major outstanding questions in the study of lncRNAs is whether effects on chromatin state or gene expression adjacent to a lncRNA locus is due to functional, sequence-specific mechanisms of the lncRNA itself, or due simply to the act of transcribing the lncRNA. Localizing lncRNA to ectopic sites with CRISPR-Display can help separate the function of the RNA itself from the effects of transcribing such RNA species. Before CRISPR-Display, such studies were challenging due to low throughput, and inability to distinguish lncRNA function from other confounding factors like cryptically encoded peptides or functional DNA elements.\n\nCRISPR-Display also allows for targeted use of the wide array of artificial RNAs with specific functionality, such as RNAs for recruitment of endogenous RNA-binding proteins, antibody affinity tagging, and recruitment of tagged fusion proteins.\n\nOne example of artificial ncRNA functionalization is incorporating RNA domains recognized by specific antibodies to the sgRNA. CRISPR-Display can target the sgRNA with a particular epitope sequence to various loci, and fluorescently tagged antibodies can be used to image the locus, showing its localization in the nucleus, and possible interactions with other tagged proteins or genomic loci.\n\nEndogenous proteins known to bind a specific RNA motif can be recruited to ectopic genomic locations by incorporating the RNA motif into the sgRNA. CRISPR-Display can also recruit fusion proteins engineered to bind specific RNA sequences. Recruiting these proteins can allow studies of specific proteins’ and protein complexes’ effects on gene regulation and chromatin states, as well as specific regulation of certain genes for investigation of gene function.\n\nDue to the modularity of the sgRNA, several different sgRNAs with distinct functional modules can be expressed in each cell at once. The different RNA modules can then work simultaneously and independently, allowing for, for example, regulation of one genomic location whilst imaging the effects of the regulation at another location.\n\nThe possible applications of CRISPR-Display will continue to increase with further development and understanding of ncRNA functionalization. It is not unreasonable to think that CRISPR-Display may one day enable complex synthetic biology systems, with distinct temporal expression of sgRNAs, and networks and circuits of gene regulation by targeting of regulatory proteins.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1616855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616855", "title": "Carbon chauvinism", "text": "Carbon chauvinism\n\nCarbon chauvinism is a neologism meant to disparage the assumption that the chemical processes of hypothetical extraterrestrial life must be constructed primarily from carbon (organic compounds) because carbon's chemical and thermodynamic properties render it far superior to all other elements.\n\nThe term was used as early as 1973, when scientist Carl Sagan described it and other human chauvinisms that limit imagination of possible extraterrestrial life. It suggests that human beings, as carbon-based life forms who have never encountered any life that has evolved outside the Earth’s environment, may find it difficult to envision radically different biochemistries.\n\nIn a 1999 \"Reason\" magazine article discussing the theory of a fine-tuned universe, Kenneth Silber quotes astrophysicist Victor J. Stenger using the term:\n\nLike carbon, silicon can form four stable bonds with itself and other elements, and long chemical chains known as silane polymers, which are very similar to the hydrocarbons essential to life on Earth. Silicon is more reactive than carbon, which could make it optimal for extremely cold environments. However, silanes spontaneously burn in the presence of oxygen at relatively low temperatures, so an oxygen atmosphere may be deadly to silicon-based life. On the other hand, it is worth considering that alkanes are as a rule quite flammable, but carbon-based life on Earth does not store energy directly as alkanes, but as sugars, lipids, alcohols, and other hydrocarbon compounds with very different properties. Water as a solvent would also react with silanes, but again, this only matters if for some reason silanes are used or mass-produced by said organisms.\n\nHydrocarbons and organic compounds are abundant in meteorites, comets, and interstellar clouds, while their silicon analogs have never been observed in nature. Silicon does, however, form complex one-, two- and three-dimensional polymers in which oxygen atoms form bridges between silicon atoms. These are termed silicates. They are both stable and abundant under terrestrial conditions, and have been proposed as a basis for a pre-organic form of evolution on Earth (see clay hypothesis).\n"}
{"id": "313540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313540", "title": "Chameleon (comics)", "text": "Chameleon (comics)\n\nThe Chameleon (Dmitri Smerdyakov) is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Commonly depicted as a master of disguise and the half-brother of Kraven the Hunter, the Chameleon is known as being the first supervillain for Spider-Man to face by first appearing in the original issue of \"The Amazing Spider-Man\".\n\nCreated by writer Stan Lee and artist Steve Ditko, the character first appeared in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #1 (March 1963), making him the first member of Spider-Man's rogues' gallery, based on issue publication date, excluding the burglar who murdered Ben Parker (Supercharger was the first Spider-Man supervillain chronologically). He is also well known to be related to Kraven the Hunter and Kraven to him. That revealed relationship helped evolve him as a major villain compared to his original depiction of being just a solo villain in the original issue of \"The Amazing Spider-Man\".\n\nThe Chameleon was born a Soviet citizen named Dmitri Smerdyakov (Дмитрий Смердяков). In his youth, he was a servant and half-brother to Sergei Kravinoff and eventually became a minor associate to Gustav Fiers. Although Dmitri and Sergei were friends, Sergei was often abusive to Smerdyakov, leading to a combination of admiration and resentment towards Kravinoff. Eventually, Smerdyakov emigrated to the United States of America. As he had made a talent for himself during his youth, impressing his brother by impersonating friends and neighbors, he assumed an even more impressive disguise: the identity of Chameleon. During his first known criminal outing, he impersonated Spider-Man, though he was exposed and arrested. Shortly afterward, Kraven the Hunter himself came to America, and the Chameleon set his old associate's sights on Spider-Man. Both men became long-time enemies of Spider-Man, part of his primary rogues' gallery.\n\nThe Chameleon inspired Kraven to begin hunting Spider-Man, inviting Kraven to dispose of the hero. With Kraven, the Chameleon battled Iron Man, and then confronted the Hulk. At one point, the Chameleon disguised himself as Hank Pym, and robbed Pym's laboratory for documents to combat Virus Nine. While delivering the documents and a shrunken Hulk to HYDRA, he was encountered and defeated by Ant-Man. The Chameleon disguised himself as the Torpedo and battled Daredevil.\n\nWhen Kraven the Hunter committed suicide, the Chameleon became obsessed with making Spider-Man suffer for his failure to prevent Kraven from killing himself. He ingested a serum which made his face permanently featureless and malleable. He attempted to kidnap America's leading expert on superconductors, but was thwarted by Spider-Man. He then kidnapped J. Jonah Jameson. He approached the Maggia for support to become New York's new crime lord, and formed an alliance with Hammerhead. Disguised as a scientist, the Chameleon temporarily removed Spider-Man's powers. He allied himself with the Femme Fatales, the Scorpion, and Tarantula to eliminate Spider-Man and the Black Cat, but escaped when his plan failed.\n\nThe Chameleon's most ambitious play against Spider-Man happened when he formed an alliance with Harry Osborn as the Green Goblin. Before Harry's death, he told Chameleon Spider-Man's secret identity could be found through Peter Parker, to construct androids of Peter's parents; Chameleon later admitted that he went through with the plot to confirm once and for all that Peter was Spider-Man. The plan led to a psychotic breakdown for both Spider-Man and Chameleon, Spider-Man briefly renouncing his civilian identity while Chameleon is sent to Ravencroft Asylum. However, when Doctor Ashley Kafka sneaks him into a basement to try to continue treating him in the belief that he was close to a breakthrough when the court were preparing to put him on trial, Chameleon escaped and attempted to convince Spider-Man that he was actually a hallucinating writer who had suffered a mental breakdown after his daughter's death in a car accident, but Peter managed to break through this deception due to his own strength of will. Chameleon's confirmation of Spider-Man's secret identity led him to try to attack Spider-Man through his family and friends, but this effort met with rather dismal results when Mary Jane Watson subdued him with a baseball bat. Somewhere in between this and subsequent appearances, he appeared to have been destroyed by his nephew Alyosha Kravinoff; Alyosha later threw a Chameleon mask at Spider-Man's feet, referring to it as 'That weakling Dmitri' but apparently recovered, waking in a hospital.\n\nAfter tricking Spider-Man to the bridge where Gwen Stacy's death occurred, on the pretext of having kidnapped his wife, he declared his own loneliness and love for Peter. When Peter laughed, he threw himself off the bridge. He reappeared some time later in a mental institution, completely incapacitated, believing himself to be Sergei Kravinoff rather than Dmitri Smerdyakov. He later reappeared in his Chameleon identity as part of the Sinister Twelve villain team organized by Norman Osborn as the Green Goblin.\n\nAfter Spider-Man was unmasked, the Chameleon gathered a gang of villains called the Exterminators, including Will O' The Wisp, Scarecrow, Swarm, and Electro and also blackmailed the Molten Man into his employ all in an effort to defeat Spider-Man and attack his family.\n\nHowever, the Chameleon was dealt a most humiliating defeat at the hands of Aunt May, when he attempted to trick her into believing he was Peter, then murder her. However, May was not fooled by any means, and defeated the villain with a plate of oatmeal-raisin cookies laced with Ambien. The Rhino was also employed as part of the team up and later defeated Spider-Man only to be unable to collect payment from Chameleon as he was already captured.\n\nAfter the \"Civil War\", Chameleon showed up among the villains at Stilt-Man's funeral at the Bar with No Name where Punisher poisoned the drinks and blew up the bar.\n\nThe Chameleon next appeared in the newest incarnation of \"Super Villain Team-Up\", called MODOK's Eleven. In this limited series it is revealed that he contacted A.I.M. the moment he was telepathically summoned by MODOK. He then allowed A.I.M. to send in their newest creation the Ultra-Adaptoid under the guise of being the Chameleon.\n\nAdditionally, it was revealed in \"Super Villain Team-Up: MODOK's Eleven\" that his apparent insanity and demise years earlier were in fact well-crafted ruses designed so that he could fade into the background once more.\n\nThe \"\" storyline ended with the removal of Peter and Mary Jane's timeline from all memories, and no one knows Spider-Man's identity.\n\nThe Chameleon returns to New York more sadistic and sociopathic than ever before. To complete his hired goal of bombing City Hall, he kidnaps and takes the identity of Peter Parker who works for Mayor J. Jonah Jameson. While posing as Parker, he tries to better his life, revealing that he always tries to rectify the problems in the lives of his \"faces\". Using Peter's security clearance to get access to various materials, Chameleon was poised to bomb City Hall before Peter escaped and thwarted his plans as Spider-Man. During the resulting confusion, Chameleon escaped.\n\nSometime later at an alley building, a distraught Chameleon is met by Kraven the Hunter's wife Sasha Kravinoff and her daughter Ana Kravinoff who want his help in avenging the death of her husband. Various follow up issues during \"The Gauntlet\" storyline show Chameleon helping the Kravinoff family into creating an alliance of Spider-Man's enemies as well as Diablo. First, he and Sasha managed to spring Electro from prison. Then Chameleon approached Mysterio stating that he has friends that are \"dying\" to meet him. When it came to the \"Grim Hunt\" part, he posed as Ezekiel in order to get close to Spider-Man, defeat him, and bring him to the Kravinoffs in order to sacrifice him as part of a ritual that will revive Sergei Kravinoff. After Sergei is resurrected, the Chameleon states that the problem might stem from inward anger of being resurrected. He and the Kravinoffs discover Spider-Man's corpse, which turns out to be Kaine in Spider-Man's costume instead. The real Spider-Man goes to take revenge on the Kravenoff family. Spider-Man soon arrives and pulled Chameleon and Alyosha into the huge nest of spiders. Sasha realizes that the Kravenoff family wasn't hunting the spiders, but it was the spiders hunting them.\n\nDuring the \"Origin of the Species\" storyline, Chameleon is invited by Doctor Octopus to join his supervillain team where he becomes involved in securing some specific items for him. He poses as Harry Osborn to trick Spider-Man by telling him that Menace's infant has died. When Spider-Man has been away, Chameleon got the infant. Doctor Octopus later talks with the Chameleon saying that the baby is the first of a new species. Using a lead gained when he took down Shocker, Spider-Man arrives at the Kravinoff Mansion where he captures Chameleon who reveals that the baby is still alive and is in the clutches of the Lizard.\n\nChameleon later becomes a member of Doctor Octopus's latest incarnation of the Sinister Six. He poses as Captain Steve Rogers in order to infiltrate an Air Force base. Chameleon disguises himself as a tribal chief when he and Mysterio pull off a zombie pirate attack on some natives. Using robots of the other Sinister Six members, Chameleon and Mysterio pulled off this scheme as a diversion so that Doctor Octopus and the other Sinister Six members can infiltrate the Baxter Building to look for specific technology plans while the Future Foundation were investigating the more obvious threat.\n\nChameleon later poses as Klaw in order to infiltrate Intelligencia so that he can help the Sinister Six steal their Zero Cannon.\n\nDuring the \"Ends of the Earth\" storyline, Chameleon was present with the Sinister Six when Doctor Octopus tells them his master plan. Chameleon was present at Palazzo Senatorio at a summit where the world's greatest minds and the world leaders is carried out to discuss about Doctor Octopus' supposed offer to save the world with Chameleon disguised as Al Gore. As Al Gore, Chameleon states that Doctor Octopus would save them. Without a counter-argument, Spider-Man punches Al Gore and reveals to everyone present that Al Gore is actually Chameleon in disguise. Spider-Man stated that his new costume could detect which person is actually Chameleon based on his heartbeat. A transmission from Doctor Octopus states that he has activated the Octavian Lens which are blocking the harmful UV rays from the sun in order to reinforce his offer. After letting Chameleon go, Spider-Man secretly places a Spider-Tracer on Chameleon so that he and the Avengers could follow him. They follow Chameleon to the Mediterranean Coasts where the rest of the Sinister Six is waiting for Chameleon. Using many of the stolen objects, the Sinister Six successfully subdue the Avengers leaving only Spider-Man standing.\n\nAfter Spider-Man and the Black Widow escape with the help of Silver Sable, Chameleon suggest that since the remaining members of the Sinister Six had each received their $2 billion and their criminal records expunged, they should just leave Doctor Octopus and his scheme. However, they stay on board as that would make an enemy out of Doctor Octopus. The Chameleon later gets involved with Mysterio in tricking Spider-Man and his allies into thinking they were destroying Symkaria, in order to give Doctor Octopus more time to complete his 200 satellites. However, the Chameleon is captured and the Black Widow threatens to reveal the secret behind his real face.\n\nFollowing the \"Dying Wish\" storyline, Chameleon later fights Superior Spider-Man (Otto Octavius's mind in Spider-Man's body) and the Secret Avengers on the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier. Chameleon ends up knocked unconscious and Superior Spider-Man transports him to his hidden underwater lab where he ends up imprisoned. Chameleon, Electro, Sandman, Mysterion, and the Vulture are later seen as part of a team led by Superior Spider-Man called the \"Superior Six\". Superior Spider-Man has been temporarily controlling their minds in order to redeem them for their crimes. He does this by forcing them do heroic deeds against their will which almost get some of them killed. Every time he is done controlling them, he puts them back in their containment cells. They eventually break free of Superior Spider-Man's control and attempt to exact revenge on the wall-crawler, while nearly destroying New York in order to do so. With the help of Sun Girl, Superior Spider-Man is barely able to stop the Superior Six.\n\nFollowing the return of the true Spider-Man, Chameleon attempts to drive Spider-Man insane as revenge for the Superior Spider-Man's treatment of him during the events of \"Superior Six\". However, Spider-Man's ally Deadpool switches costumes with Spider-Man, with Chameleon unaware of this. He fails at driving \"Spider-Man\" insane (as Deadpool is already insane), and ends up being shot in the leg by him. Both heroes (in each other's costumes) punch the Chameleon at the same time, knocking him out and later delivered him to the authorities.\n\nOriginally, the Chameleon had no superhuman powers and simply used makeup and elaborate costuming to impersonate his targets. In order to do this, he implemented a device in a belt buckle that emitted a gas that helped him mold his features. Later, the Chameleon obtained a microcomputer from Spencer Smythe for his belt buckle that could be programmed with the facial features of hundreds of people. The belt buckle also contains a video receiver that enables the computer to analyze the appearance of anyone the Chameleon encounters so that it can duplicate his/her features using electrical impulses. The computer utilizes holographic technology that allowed him to change his appearance at the push of a button. His electronic devices allowed him to appear as two different people to two separate observers simultaneously. The Chameleon's costume consists of \"memory material\" that can be altered by electrical impulses from his belt so as to resemble the clothing of the person he is impersonating.\n\nLater, the Chameleon's powers are made innate: his skin pigmentation have been surgically and mutagenically altered by a serum so that he can take on the appearance of any person at will. He also wears fabric made of memory material that responds to nerve impulses and can appear to be whatever costume he wishes to be.\n\nWhen his past friendship with Kraven the Hunter was revealed, it was also revealed that the Chameleon had taken the same serums that Kraven had taken over the years. This would suggest that the two characters were of a similar age (over 70 years old). It would also suggest that the Chameleon's physical strength and endurance could be somewhat augmented, but as the Chameleon's strength is much lower than that of Kraven, his augmentations may not reach a superhuman level.\n\nAside from his physical advantages, the Chameleon is a master of disguise, and a brilliant method actor and impressionist. He is also a master of creating lifelike masks and make-up. He is a quick-change artist who can assume a new disguise in less than a minute, although he no longer needs to use such skills. He also speaks several languages fluently. Although the Chameleon is not a scientific genius, during his increased lifespan he has been exposed to a wide array of sophisticated experimental technology, much of which he can apply effectively in his nefarious schemes.\n\nIn his 2010 appearances in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\", writer Fred Van Lente placed a stronger emphasis on his skills of disguise rather than his superhuman powers. In this portrayal, Chameleon kidnaps people and brutally kills them by dumping them in an acid bath. From listening to them beg for their lives, he alters his pitch to sound exactly alike and takes a face print to make into a mask. This more chilling Chameleon also seeks to fix the lives of his \"faces\", attempting to rectify the problems of their lives while he poses as them as a part of some warped heroic view of himself.\n\nIn Marvel 2099, a designer drug that causes its users to involuntarily shapeshift in response to whatever emotion they are feeling at the time is nicknamed \"Chameleon\". After fighting an addict (who turned into a bull-like monster when angered and a mouse-like creature when frightened) at Woodstock 2099, the era's Spider-Man tracks down the distributor of Chameleon, a hippy known as Major Jones. While battling Jones and his minions, Spider-Man accidentally knocks the dealer into his supply of the drug, causing him to mutate into an amorphous blob, the new Chameleon.\n\nA version of Chameleon appeared in \"Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man\". He has the powers of physically changing into any shape or form after accessing their DNA. This usually involves sampling their blood after killing the subject, although less lethal methods are possible; he was able to change into Sandman after an accidental ingestion of some of his sand.\n\nChameleon encounters an alternate Uncle Ben from another future who has been transferred into the 'main' timelined by Hobgoblin of 2211, attempting to influence Ben to kill Edwin Jarvis for his current involvement with this timeline's May Parker by arguing that, since the multiverse means every action possible is being committed, you might as well do what feels good. When Ben rejects the suggestion, Chameleon kills and replaces him. This fools Spider-Man 2211 whom he then kills when he arrives to try to return 'Ben' to his reality. After discovering the body, Sandman's father was framed for Ben's murder, and Sandman went to Spider-Man for help.\n\nThe two encountered Chameleon at Peter's high school (Chameleon had murdered the principal and was posing as him), where Chameleon reveals that he wasn't human at all but a giant monster. Chameleon was finally defeated, however, after Spider-Man (of Earth 616) used Spider-Man 2211's helmet to literally \"administer poetic justice\", causing a last-minute body switch between Chameleon and Sandman's father into an electric chair.\n\nSpider-Man faces the Counter-Earth version of The Chameleon in \"Spider-Man Unlimited\" #5. This Chameleon, a reptilian Bestial, is a depraved serial killer who both Spider-Man and a bestial Wolverine team-up to defeat.\n\nAn Ultimate version of Chameleon appears in \"\" as twin siblings with the ability to shape-shift. One poses first as J. Jonah Jameson, and later Spider-Man, while the other keeps the real Jameson and Peter Parker restrained. They are defeated by Johnny Storm and Bobby Drake, and imprisoned in the Triskelion.\n\nIn \"Iron Man\" during The Marvel Action Hour, the Chameleon appeared in #4 of the cartoon based comic in service to Justin Hammer. He used his transformation abilities to obtain the Grim Reaper weapon from Stark Enterprises.\n\nIn \"Spider-Man Noir\", Dmitri Smerdyakov (a.k.a. The Chameleon) is depicted as a former Coney Island freak working for mob boss Norman Osborn (a.k.a. \"The Goblin\"). Like his mainstream counterpart, he has the ability to alter his features to imitate any individual, although this ability stems from his clay-like malleable features rather than any technological advantages. Osborn has him impersonate J. Jonah Jameson in order to eliminate Ben Urich and set a trap for Spider-Man. He was killed by Felicia Hardy when she witnesses him as Jameson killing Ben.\n\n\n\nThe Chameleon plays an important role in the \"Sinister Six\" novel trilogy by Adam-Troy Castro. He arranges for the escape of Doctor Octopus, the Vulture, Electro and Mysterio to form a new incarnation of the Sinister Six, coordinated by internationally-feared criminal Gustav Fiers (the Gentleman) who has often employed the Chameleon in past schemes. With the aid of the Gentleman's ward, Pity, a young woman with enhanced strength and speed that allows her to stand up to Spider-Man and the ability to generate a psionically-induced darkness, these men form a new incarnation of the Sinister Six to aid in the Gentleman's plan to trigger a global financial collapse (although the Six are only aware of the Gentleman's plan to destroy the American economy by generating an EMP in the middle of New York, unaware that he also plans to release a catalyst that would destroy ink and thus remove all physical back-ups of the lost data, as well as render the money the Six had been paid with little more than paper). During their first attack of a 'Day of Terror', where four of the Six take hostages at various points around the city (Mysterio posing as Electro while he and Pity steal the catalyst to draw attention from Electro's absence), the Chameleon takes an acting class at Empire State University hostage to make them run across a football field rigged with explosives, but he is taken by surprise by Mary Jane, who dismisses his plan as pathetic before catching him off-guard and forcing him to flee. When the time comes to trigger the EMP, although Fiers believed that he had the Six under control, he is killed by none other than the Chameleon, who disguises himself as Fiers' new driver so that he can find the plane where Fiers is storing his new material wealth (Fiers having 'sacrificed' most of his actual money to pay the Six or buy new goods that will become more valuable once money itself has lost all value); while dying, Fiers reflects that he was always able to see through the Chameleon's disguises in the past, but wonders if the Chameleon just \"let\" him see through those disguises until he was ready to strike. However, the Chameleon's plan to take control of Fiers' scheme is cut short when Doctor Octopus attacks the plane intending to do the same thing, followed by a fight between Doctor Octopus, Spider-Man and Pity that sends the plane crashing into the sea, with Pity and Octavius vanishing while the Chameleon is left hospitalized from hypothermia and near-drowning.\n\n"}
{"id": "16784894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16784894", "title": "Death Coach", "text": "Death Coach\n\nThe death coach is part of the folklore of north western Europe. It is particularly strong in Ireland but is also found in British and American culture. In Irish folklore, it is known as the Cóiste Bodhar , meaning deaf or silent coach, and it is said that the sight or sound of the coach is the harbinger of death. It warns of imminent death to either oneself or to a close relative. In Ireland in particular the Death Coach is seen as a signifier of the inevitability of death, as the belief goes once it has come to Earth it can never return empty. Thus, once the death of an individual has been decided by a greater power, mortals may do nothing to prevent it.\n\nThe driver of the Cóiste Bodhar is said to be a headless horseman, called the Dullahan.\n\nThe Cóiste Bodhar is mentioned by W. B. Yeats in his collection \"Folk tales of Ireland.\"\n\nIn Scottish folklore, a death coach is said to be seen at times on the Royal Mile of Edinburgh, where it collects the souls of the dead. Also in Scotland a \"hell wain\" can supposedly be seen in the night sky.\n\nThe Cóiste Bodhar has been portrayed in the film \"Darby O'Gill and the Little People\".\n\nThe Cóiste Bodhar also appeared in \"Strange\" along with the Banshee who is able to summon the Coach.\n\nThe Cóiste Bodhar has also been featured in the Japanese light novel series \"Durarara!!\". It serves as the steed of the Dullahan Celty Sturluson and it can shapeshift into anything ranging from a headless horse to a motorcycle.\n\nAt the end of Stephen King's novel \"Needful Things\", the story's antagonist, shop owner Leland (in some printings \"Leeland\") Gaunt, reveals himself to be a diabolical figure and departs the town of Castle Rock in an automobile that transforms into a death coach emblazoned with the motto \"Caveat emptor\" (\"May the buyer beware\").\n\n5. -Spooky Irish October- Emerald Reflections Oct. 2007 - by Brian Witt\n\n"}
{"id": "921329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=921329", "title": "Dirch Passer", "text": "Dirch Passer\n\nDirch Hartvig Passer (18 May 1926 – 3 September 1980) was a celebrated Danish actor. He was greatly renowned for his improvisational skills and, with a filmography comprising 90 movies, one of Denmark's most prolific actors. His life is depicted in the Danish semi-biographical film \"A Funny Man\" (2011, Danish title \"Dirch\") directed by Martin Zandvliet.\n\nWhen he was young, Passer was very shy, and had a dream of becoming an actor, but consented to his father's wishes by attending J. Lauritzen's sea training school near Svendborg in 1944. But since he had persistent problems with seasickness, he later started at the drama school \"De frederiksbergske teatres Elevskole\".\n\nDuring the 1950s he formed a duo with his colleague and friend Kjeld Petersen. Their revue sketches, based upon the contrast between Petersen’s mixture of joviality and desperate anger and Passer’s deadpan responses, are still considered classics by the public. The sudden death of Kjeld Petersen in 1962 led Passer to avoid revues for five years, but he built up an individual reputation and in 1967 he returned to the revue gaining new victories. Many thin jokes in the scripts were greatly improved by his performance. In particular, his many amiable eccentrics and \"nature experts\" together with his sketch roles as a baby and as a nonsense \"Russian\"-speaking clown made him famous. From his later years must be mentioned an almost silent sketch in which he portrays a man’s vain attempt to stop smoking (also shown in West German TV). It was told that he could speak any language, however he wouldn't understand any of it, which was one of his good qualities.\nIn his life, Dirch Passer wanted to play more serious roles than what he usually did, which was very comedic. But sadly, his image as a comedian was so solid, that when he tried to do so, the moment he showed himself on stage, the audience broke in laughter. This saddened him greatly, and because of that, he only attempted it once.\n\nHe was often referred to as a loud actor in spite of the fact that under-acting was responsible for much of his force. A Danish critic, Jens Kistrup, once said that one of the secrets behind the comedy of Passer was its combination of elements that are normally regarded as incompatible. He possessed noisiness and discretion, loudness and quietness, boundlessness and complete control, craziness and softness — all this combined with a special intimacy with the audience. Among his inspirations he mentioned Joe E. Brown but he was also known for his admiration of the British comedian Tommy Cooper. In his films, which were of very mixed quality, he often played kind and somewhat crazy \"Everymen\" or antiheroes. Among his best movie roles were stage roles transferred to film; here must be mentioned the hero in \"Charley’s Aunt\" (1959), Celestin-Floridor in \"Frøken Nitouche\" (1963) and Leopold in \"Summer in Tyrol\" (i.e. \"The White Horse Inn\", 1964).\nNumerous Danish actors see him as a role model. In day-to-day life he was quite shy in behaviour, somewhat the opposite of his theatrical appearances. He collapsed just off stage dressed as a clown for the opening number of the season premiere of Tivolirevyen, dying shortly after arrival at the hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "36299085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36299085", "title": "Drowning-pit", "text": "Drowning-pit\n\nA 'Drowning-pit', 'Drowning pool' or 'Murder-hole' was a pit or well dug for the purpose of specifically executing females under Scottish feudal laws. Rivers, lochans, etc. were used if conveniently situated near to the Moot hill where the baronial court dempster would announce the death penalty. The term 'Fossa' was also used as in 'furca and fossa', the fossa being a ditch filled with water.\n\nDrowning-pits came into legal use after it was enacted at the parliament assembled in Forfar in 1057 by King Malcolm Canmore that every baron should sink a well or pit, for the drowning of females, a gibbet being used for males. The place name element 'murder hole' sometime relates to these formal drowning sites. Bones have been found close to some of these sites, suggesting that the corpses were buried close by and not in hallowed ground.\n\nSome drowning-pits had ladders down which the condemned person had to climb; the ladder was then withdrawn. On other sites hurdles were used to hold the person below the water. Many Moot hill sites are or were surrounded by water or were situated at the edge of a body of water, such as Mugdock, Mound Wood near Auchentiber and the Court Hill at the Hill of Beith, Hutt Knowe at Bonshaw, etc. \n\nIt is not clear why men were more likely to be hanged and women drowned in a fen, river, pit or 'murder hole.' However, it may relate to ideas of decency or because it was a less violent death. In Norse law the reason was that men were sent to Wodan, and women were given to Ran (a sea goddess) or Hel. In Norse tradition the pit and gallows stood on the west of the moot-places or the prince's hall ready for use.\n\nThe term \"pit and gallows\" or \"furca and fossa\", refers to the 'high justice' rights of a feudal baron, etc., including the capital penalty. The right is described in full as \"pit and gallows, sake and soke, toll, team, and infangthief\". \n\nWith the introduction to Scotland of the feudal system in the 12th-century, pre-feudal, or Celtic tenures, were transformed into holding from the Crown and a number of these were held directly or in chief of the Crown and were held \"in liberam baroniam,\" in free barony, with the aforementioned high justice (with pit and gallows). It is said that King Malcolm Canmore legislated in 1057 that every barony was to have a tree for hanging convicted men and a pit of water for the execution of convicted women.\n\nAlthough drowning was generally reserved for females, being the least brutal form of death penalty, at times a male was executed in this way as a matter of favour, for instance in 1526 a man convicted of theft and sacrilege was ordered to be drowned \"by the queen's special grace\" and in 1611 a man was drowned at Edinburgh for stealing a lamb.\n\nThe hereditary right of high justice survived until 1747 when it was removed from the barons and from the holders of Regalities and sheriffdoms, by the Heritable Jurisdictions (Scotland) Act 1746, however the use of the death penalty by barons had largely fallen into abeyance well before it was abolished. Its last use in Scotland may have been in 1685, the year of the drowning of the Wigton martyrs. Lesser feudal powers surprisingly continued to the twentieth century.\n\nThese pits were often close to the residence of the baron or clan chief and OS maps show that many gallows sites were close to water. so that a pit or ditch did not have to be constructed, making actual drowning-pits rare features within the physical landscape. It is not clear what the ratio of male to female deaths was in feudal times. Many gallows sites are also associated with the discovery of bones; however records do not clearly state the sex.\n\nGallows Hill, in the parish of Cruden, was where criminals were executed and where human skeletons have been found. A deep pool in the Water of Cruden opposite is where 'others' were drowned.\n\nThere was a Drowning Pool, at Balliemore, Strathspey, South-east of Inverness, where it is said that witches and other women criminals used to be put to death. \n\nBetween Mugdock Castle and Craigend is a round knoll, called the Moot Hill or place of judgement. Guilty women were drowned in the little sheet of water which lay at the foot of the gibbet where the men were hanged. \n\nIn Straiton parish near Craigenrae is a site known as the Murder-hole, represented by a marshy depression. In the novel \"The Grey Man\" written by S. R. Crockett this murder-hole is used, however its site is placed elsewhere.\n\nOn the Water of Minnoch is a deep pool known as the 'Murder Hole' in which a family from Rowantree dumped their victims; they were caught, confessed and were the last to be hanged on the dule tree.\n\nThe author Joseph Train records, however, that at the last \"shire-mote\" ever held in Carrick by the Earl of Cassillis, the MacKillups of Craingenreach were hanged on the dule tree of Cassillis circa 1746, having murdered a neighbour and thrown his remains into \"the common murder-hole of the Bailiery at Craigenreach\".\n\nThe owner of Baynard's Castle, London, in the reign of John, had powers of trying criminals, and his descendants long afterwards claimed the privileges, the most valued of which was the right of drowning in the River Thames traitors taken within their jurisdiction. Drowning was the punishment ordained by Richard the Lionheart for any soldier of his army who killed a fellow crusader during the passage to the Holy Land.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24887357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24887357", "title": "Elizabeth Talbot, Duchess of Norfolk", "text": "Elizabeth Talbot, Duchess of Norfolk\n\nElizabeth de Mowbray, Duchess of Norfolk (\"née\" Talbot; December 1442/January 1443 – 6 November 1506/10 May 1507) was a daughter of John Talbot, 1st Earl of Shrewsbury and his wife Lady Margaret Beauchamp.\n\nLady Elizabeth Talbot was a daughter of John Talbot, 1st Earl of Shrewsbury and his wife Lady Margaret Beauchamp. Her younger sister was Lady Eleanor Talbot, believed to have been King Edward IV's mistress. Elizabeth's maternal grandparents were Richard de Beauchamp, 13th Earl of Warwick and Elizabeth de Berkeley. One of her brothers was John Talbot, 1st Viscount Lisle, a nobleman and soldier.\n\nShe was married to John de Mowbray. He succeeded his father as Duke of Norfolk in 1461, making her the Duchess of Norfolk by marriage. They had only one surviving daughter, who inherited the Warwick estates.\n\n\nWorks cited\n"}
{"id": "56693342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56693342", "title": "Essex Finch, Countess of Nottingham", "text": "Essex Finch, Countess of Nottingham\n\nEssex Finch, Countess of Nottingham (c.1652 – 23 March 1684), formerly Lady Essex Rich, was the first wife of Daniel Finch, 2nd Earl of Nottingham.\n\nEssex was the youngest daughter of Robert Rich, 3rd Earl of Warwick, and his second wife Anne Cheeke. She was named after her mother's mother, who was also descended from Robert Rich, 1st Earl of Warwick. Following her mother's death, Essex and her sisters were brought up in the household of her father's brother, Charles Rich, 4th Earl of Warwick.\n\nHusbands proposed for Lady Essex Rich included the son of Baron Berkeley of Stratton and Thomas Vane. However, on 16 June 1674, she married Daniel Finch at Leez Priory, near Felsted, and they moved in with his parents at Kensington Palace. The couple had eight children but only one daughter survived to adulthood:\n\n\nThe Countess of Nottingham died in childbirth, and was buried in the family vault at Ravenstone. Following her death, her husband remarried, his second wife being the Hon. Anne Hatton, by whom he had several children.\n"}
{"id": "58006182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58006182", "title": "Fine-Resolution Epithermal Neutron Detector", "text": "Fine-Resolution Epithermal Neutron Detector\n\nThe Fine-Resolution Epithermal Neutron Detector (FREND) is a neutron detector that is part of the instrument payload on board the ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter (TGO), launched to Mars in March 2016. This instrument is currently mapping hydrogen levels to a maximum depth of beneath the Martian surface, thus revealing shallow water ice distribution.This instrument has an improved resolution of 7.5 times over the one Russia contributed to NASA's \"Mars Odyssey\" orbiter.\n\nFREND can provide information while orbiting Mars on the presence of hydrogen, in the form of water or hydrated minerals in the top of the Martian surface. Locations where hydrogen is found may indicate water-ice deposits, which is one of the key ingredients for life. Mapping ground ice could also be useful for future resource utilization (ISRU) and crewed missions.\n\nFREND also features a dosimeter to monitor the radiation environment along its orbit around Mars.\n\nThe main science objective of the instrument is to carry out high spatial resolution mapping of epithermal and fast neutron fluxes from the Martian surface. FREND will work in synergy and complement orbital and ground data as measured the Dynamic Albedo of Neutrons (DAN) instrument on the \"Curiosity\" rover, the ADRON-RM instrument on the ExoMars rover and the ADRON-EM on the ExoMars 2020 surface platform.\n\nThe second goal of FREND is to use its dosimeter to measure the radiation dose at the TGO orbit from energetic particles of galactic cosmic rays and solar flares. The data will be used to estimate exposure levels of spacecraft and maintain radiation safety of crewed interplanetary flights.\n\nCosmic rays are sufficiently energetic to break apart atoms in the top one or two metres of Mars' surface, releasing high-energy neutrons, which can be measured by FREND instrument. The distribution of neutron velocities measured reveals the hydrogen content, which are a good indicator of hydrogen abundance —water or hydrated minerals— in the shallow subsurface of Mars.\n\nFREND uses inherited technology developed by the Russian Space Research Institute and flown on the High Energy Neutron Detector (HEND) on \"Mars Odyssey\"; the Mercury Gamma and Neutron Spectrometer (MGNS) on \"BepiColombo\"; the Lunar Exploration Neutron Detector (LEND) on the \"Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter\", and Dynamic Albedo of Neutrons (DAN) on \"Curiosity\" rover.\n\nThis instrument's key components are four detectors containing tritium (He) for neutrons with energies from 0.4 keV to 500 keV, and a stilbene-based scintillator for high-energy neutrons up to 10 MeV. Each of the four He detectors counts neutrons independently for increased reliability. All five detectors are encased within a collimator that improves the resolution 7.5 times over the one Russia contributed to NASA's \"Mars Odyssey\" orbiter.\n\nThe Principal Investigator is Igor G. Mitrofanov, from the Russian Space Research Institute (IKI). Mitrofanov is also the PI for ExoMars' ADRON-RM and ADRON-EM neutron detector instruments.\n\n"}
{"id": "21554170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21554170", "title": "Friedman doctrine", "text": "Friedman doctrine\n\nMilton Friedman takes a shareholder approach to social responsibility. This approach views shareholders as the economic engine of the organization and the only group to which the firm must be socially responsible. As such, the goal of the firm is to maximize profits and return a portion of those profits to shareholders as a reward for the risk they took in investing in the firm. He advocates that the shareholders can then decide for themselves what social initiatives to take part in rather than having their appointed executive, whom they appointed for business reasons, decide for them.\n\nFriedman argued that a company should have no \"social responsibility\" to the public or society because its only concern is to increase profits for itself and for its shareholders and that the shareholders in their private capacity are the ones with the social responsibility. He wrote about this concept in his book \"Capitalism and Freedom\". In it he states that when companies concern themselves with the community rather than focusing on profits, it leads to totalitarianism.\n\nIn the book, Friedman writes: \"There is one and only one social responsibility of business – to use its resources and engage in activities designed to increase its profits so long as it stays within the rules of the game, which is to say, engages in open and free competition without deception or fraud.\"\n\nThe idea of the stockholder theory, some argue, is inconsistent with the idea of corporate social responsibility at the cost of the stakeholder. For example, a company donating services or goods to help those hurt in a natural disaster, in some ways, may be considered not taking action in the best interest of the shareholder. Instead Friedman argues that shareholders should themselves decide how much and to whom they would like to make donations. Some may argue that goods provided to society in a time of need build further allegiance to a corporation and in theory, meet the stockholder theory's requirement to look in the best interest of the stockholder.\n\nThe Friedman doctrine is controversial. In left-wing social activist Naomi Klein's book \"The Shock Doctrine\", she criticizes the theory, saying most citizens become impoverished while corporate elites gain enormous wealth.\n"}
{"id": "8019439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8019439", "title": "Functional response", "text": "Functional response\n\nA functional response in ecology is the intake rate of a consumer as a function of food density (the amount of food available in a given ecotope). It is associated with the numerical response, which is the reproduction rate of a consumer as a function of food density. Following C. S. Holling, functional responses are generally classified into three types, which are called Holling's type I, II, and III.\n\nType I functional response assumes a linear increase in intake rate with food density, either for all food densities, or only for food densities up to a maximum, beyond which the intake rate is constant. The linear increase assumes that the time needed by the consumer to process a food item is negligible, or that consuming food does not interfere with searching for food. A functional response of type I is used in the Lotka–Volterra predator–prey model. It was the first kind of functional response described and is also the simplest of the three functional responses currently detailed.\n\nType II functional response is characterized by a decelerating intake rate, which follows from the assumption that the consumer is limited by its capacity to process food. Type II functional response is often modeled by a rectangular hyperbola, for instance as by Holling's disc equation, which assumes that processing of food and searching for food are mutually exclusive behaviors. The equation is\n\nwhere \"f\" denotes intake rate and \"R\" denotes food (or resource) density. The rate at which the consumer encounters food items per unit of food density is called the attack rate, \"a\". The average time spent on processing a food item is called the handling time, \"h\". Similar equations are the Monod equation for the growth of microorganisms and the Michaelis–Menten equation for the rate of enzymatic reactions. \n\nIn an example with wolves and caribou, as the number of caribou increases while holding wolves constant, the number of caribou kills increases and then levels off. This is because the proportion of caribou killed per wolf decreases as caribou density increases. The higher the density of caribou, the smaller the proportion of caribou killed per wolf. Explained slightly differently, at very high caribou densities, wolves need very little time to find prey and spend almost all their time handling prey and very little time searching. Wolves are then satiated and the total number of caribou kills reaches a plateau.\n\nType III functional response is similar to type II in that at high levels of prey density, saturation occurs. But now, at low prey density levels, the graphical relationship of number of prey consumed and the density of the prey population is a more than linearly increasing function of prey consumed by predators. This accelerating function is largely descriptive, and often justified by learning time, prey switching, or a combination of both phenomena, but the type III functional response lacks the rigorous theoretical underpinning of the type II functional response. \n\nLearning time is defined as the natural improvement of a predator’s searching and attacking efficiency or the natural improvement in their handling efficiency as prey density increases. Imagine a prey density so small that the chance of a predator encountering that prey is extremely low. Because the predator finds prey so infrequently, it has not had enough experience to develop the best ways to capture and subdue that species of prey. Holling identified this mechanism in shrews and deer mice feeding on sawflies. At low numbers of sawfly cocoons per acre, deer mice especially experienced exponential growth in terms of the number of cocoons consumed per individual as the density of cocoons increased. The characteristic saturation point of the type III functional response was also observed in the deer mice. At a certain density of cocoons per acre, the consumption rate of the deer mice reached a saturation amount as the cocoon density continued to increase.\n\nPrey switching involves two or more prey species and one predator species. When all prey species are at equal prey densities, the predator will indiscriminately select between prey species. However, if the density of one of the prey species decreases, then the predator will start selecting the other, more common prey species with a higher frequency. Murdoch demonstrated this effect with guppy preying on tubificids and fruit flies. As fruit fly numbers decreased guppies switched from feeding on the fruit flies on the water’s surface to feeding on the more abundant tubificids along the bed.\n\n"}
{"id": "3070989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3070989", "title": "ICAD (software)", "text": "ICAD (software)\n\nICAD (Corporate history: ICAD, Inc., Concentra (name change at IPO in 1995), KTI (name change in 1998), Dassault Systemes (purchase in 2001) () is a knowledge-based engineering (KBE) system that enables users to encode design knowledge using a semantic representation that can be evaluated for Parasolid output. ICAD has an open architecture that can utilize all the power and flexibility of the underlying language.\n\nKBE, as implemented via ICAD, received a lot of attention due to the remarkable results that appeared to take little effort. ICAD allowed one example of end-user computing that in a sense is unparalleled. Most ICAD developers were degreed engineers. Systems developed by ICAD users were non-trivial and consisted of highly complicated code. In the sense of end-user computing, ICAD was the first to allow the power of a domain tool to be in the hands of the user, at the same time being open to allow extensions as identified and defined by the domain expert or subject-matter expert (SME).\n\nA COE article looked at the resulting explosion of expectations (see AI winter), which were not sustainable. However, such a bubble burst does not diminish the existence of ability that would exist were expectations and use reasonable or properly managed.\n\nThe original implementation of ICAD was on a Lisp machine (Symbolics). Some of the principals involved with the development were Larry Rosenfeld, Avrum Belzer, Patrick M. O'Keefe, Philip Greenspun, and David F. Place. The time frame was 1984–85.\n\nICAD started on special-purpose Symbolics Lisp hardware and was then ported to Unix when Common Lisp became portable to general-purpose workstations.\n\nThe original domain for ICAD was mechanical design with many application successes. However, ICAD has found use in other domains, such as electrical design, shape modeling, etc. An example project could be wind tunnel design or the development of a support tool for aircraft multidisciplinary design. Further examples can be found in the presentations at the annual IIUG (International ICAD Users Group) that have been published in the KTI Vault (1999 through 2002). Boeing and Airbus used ICAD extensively to develop various components in the 1990s and early 21st century.\n\nAs of 2003, ICAD was featured strongly in several areas as evidenced by the Vision & Strategy Product Vision and Strategy presentation. After 2003, ICAD use diminished. At the end of 2001, the KTI Company faced financial difficulties and laid off most of its best staff. They were eventually bought out by Dassault who effectively scuppered the ICAD product. See IIUG at COE, 2003 (first meeting due to Dassault by KTI)\n\nThe ICAD system was very expensive, relatively, and was in the price range of high-end systems. Market dynamics couldn't support this as there may not have been sufficient differentiating factors between ICAD and the lower-end systems (or the promises from Dassault). KTI was absorbed by Dassault Systemes and ICAD is no longer considered the go-forward tool for knowledge-based engineering (KBE) applications by that company. Dassault Systemes is promoting a suite of tools oriented around version 5 of their popular CATIA CAD application, with Knowledgeware the replacement for ICAD.\n\n, things were still a bit unclear. ICAD 8.3 was delivered.\nThe recent COE Aerospace Conference had a discussion about the futures of KBE. One issue involves the stacking of 'meta' issues within a computer model. How this is resolved, whether by more icons or the availability of an external language, remains to be seen.\n\nThe Genworks GDL product (including kernel technology from the Gendl Project) is the nearest functional equivalent to ICAD currently available.\n\nICAD provided a declarative language (IDL) using New Flavors (never converted to Common Lisp Object System (CLOS)) that supported a mechanism for relating parts (defpart) via a hierarchical set of relationships. Technically, the ICAD Defpart was a Lisp macro; the ICAD defpart list was a set of generic classes that can be instantiated with specific properties depending upon what was represented. This defpart list was extendible via composited parts that represented domain entities. Along with the part-subpart relations, ICAD supported generic relations via the object modeling abilities of Lisp.\n\nExample applications of ICAD range from a small collection of defparts that represents a part or component to a larger collection that represents an assembly. In terms of power, an ICAD system, when fully specified, can generate thousands of instances of parts on a major assembly design.\n\nOne example of an application driving thousands of instances of parts is that of an aircraft wing – where fastener type and placement may number in the thousands, each instance requiring evaluation of several factors driving the design parameters.\n\nOne role for ICAD may be serving as the defining prototype for KBE which would require that we know more about what occurred the past 15 years (much information is tied up behind corporate firewalls and under proprietary walls). With the rise of functional programming languages (an example is Haskell) in the markets, perhaps some of the power attributable to Lisp may be replicated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31305441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31305441", "title": "Indian rolling", "text": "Indian rolling\n\nIndian rolling (or Injun rollin') is the assault, and in some cases murder, of Navajo and Apache, often of homeless individuals, committed by non-Indians in the Southwestern United States, particularly in the border towns surrounding the Navajo Nation and Jicarilla lands.\nIn her 2006 dissertation, Lisa Donaldson classifies \"Indian rolling\" as a \"thrill-seeking hate crime\" and traces its roots to the colonization of the Southwest which created a \"power differential between groups that led to negative feelings toward minorities among law enforcement and local citizens\".\n\nThe assaults, which often target alcoholic men who are comparatively defenseless, are variously described as representing \"rites of passage\", \"sport,\" and a \"recreational pastime\" to the perpetrators. \nSurvivors report the act involves being assaulted with rocks, pellet guns, bottles, eggs, and baseball bats. Victims claim, furthermore, that law enforcement officials often refuse to intervene.\n\nThe term first came to public notoriety in the spring of 1974 when three Navajos were beaten and murdered by white teenagers in the city of Farmington, New Mexico, and their mutilated bodies were subsequently found in a nearby canyon. The perpetrators were not convicted of murder but were sent to a reform school. Subsequent protests by tribal members turned into riots when permits to march peacefully were revoked or not granted. The incident triggered a report by the New Mexico Advisory Committee to the United States Commission on Civil Rights and inspired the true crime-novel \"The Broken Circle—A True Story of Murder and Magic in Indian Country\" by Rodney Barker.\n\nConcerns about the practice's revival emerged in the 1970s to 2000s after a resurgence of attacks against Native Americans in the area. Assaults have allegedly taken place in Flagstaff, Phoenix, Page and Gallup.\n\n"}
{"id": "44719893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44719893", "title": "John Allot", "text": "John Allot\n\nSir John Allot was a 16th-century English merchant and politician who served as Lord Mayor of London. He was the fourth son of a Lincolnshire squire, Richard Allot of Great Lymber. He came to London and joined the Worshipful Company of Fishmongers. He was elected in 1580 as one of the Sheriffs of London, serving with Ralph Woodcock, and in 1590 he was elected Lord Mayor of London. He did not finish his term, though. He died on 17 September 1591 and was buried at St Margaret Moses; the remainder of his term was served by Sir Rowland Hayward (as his second term). He had a daughter, Margaret, who married William Albany of Oxsted. Another daughter, Anne, married Thomas Pigott, MP, and secondly Sir John Gibson, MP.\n"}
{"id": "39121157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39121157", "title": "John Hunyadi, Ban of Severin", "text": "John Hunyadi, Ban of Severin\n\nJohn Hunyadi, Jr. (\"c.\" 1419 – 1440 or 1441) was a Hungarian noble and knight banneret from the House of Hunyadi, younger brother of regent John Hunyadi as the second son of Vajk (Voyk) and Erzsébet (Elizabeth) Morzsinai (Morsina/Marsina).\n\nThere is little information about him. He was first mentioned in the charter issued for four members of his family on 12 February 1419. He was appointed Ban of Severin (Szörény) by King Albert in 1439, along with his brother. Thereafter he participated in his brother's early campaigns against the Ottomans. He was probably killed in a battle in this capacity in 1440 or 1441. He was buried in Gyulafehérvár (today: Alba Iulia, Romania). His brother wrote of him as \"the valiant of the valiant\", showing that John the younger was regarded a brave soldier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4740034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4740034", "title": "Knights of Ålleberg", "text": "Knights of Ålleberg\n\nThe Knights of Ålleberg, Sweden are, according to legend, the ghosts of twelve knights that died in the battle of Ålleberg in 1389. The legend says that the ghosts are trapped inside the Ålleberg-mountain, waiting for a new war to wake them up so they can fight to save the country and show themselves worthy to finally be accepted for heaven.\nThe legend is a version of the sleeping hero or king in the mountain.\n\n"}
{"id": "50603812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50603812", "title": "L. Boyer (cyclist)", "text": "L. Boyer (cyclist)\n\nL. Boyer was a French cyclist. He competed at the 1900 Summer Olympics in the men's sprint. He did not finish in the third heat of the first round.\n"}
{"id": "7165410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7165410", "title": "List of mummies", "text": "List of mummies\n\nThis is a list of mummies – corpses whose skin and organs have been preserved intentionally, or incidentally. This list does not include Bog bodies for which there is a separate list.\n\n"}
{"id": "15114072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15114072", "title": "Love Among the Ruins. A Romance of the Near Future", "text": "Love Among the Ruins. A Romance of the Near Future\n\nLove Among the Ruins: A Romance of the Near Future is a 1953 novel by Evelyn Waugh. It is a satire set in a dystopian quasi-egalitarian Britain.\n\nThe protagonist, Miles Plastic, is an orphan who at the beginning of the story is finishing a prison term for arson. Crime is treated very leniently by the state, and conditions in prison are actually quite superior to those among the population at large, leading to an understandably high recidivism rate. Upon release, Plastic goes to work at a state-run euthanasia centre. The centres are not restricted to the terminally ill and are so popular that Plastic's sole responsibility is to stem \"the too eager rush\" of perfectly healthy but \"welfare weary\" citizens.\n\nPlastic soon falls in love with Clara, a bearded woman who is a \"priority case\" at the centre. However, she does not wish to die (she was sent there by her department) and the two begin a romance. One day, however, she suddenly disappears, and when he finds her, she has a rubber jaw replacing her formerly bearded face. Distraught, Plastic sets his former prison on fire, and, unidentified as the perpetrator of the crime, becomes elevated in status as the prison's only \"successfully rehabilitated inmate.\" Sent to become a lecturer on the worthiness of the prison system, Plastic is directed to marry an unattractive civil servant. A curtain is drawn on the final conclusion as Plastic reaches into his pocket for his cigarette lighter.\n"}
{"id": "1351107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1351107", "title": "MC 900 Ft. Jesus", "text": "MC 900 Ft. Jesus\n\nMark Griffin (born 1957), better known as MC 900 Ft. Jesus, is an American classically trained musician turned rapper and experimental musician. MC 900 Ft. Jesus' music is influenced by hip hop, incorporating many sound samples.\n\nThe son of an army officer, Griffin moved around quite a bit before settling in Dallas, Texas in 1979. Griffin studied the trumpet and has a BA in Music from Morehead State University as well as an advanced degree in music from North Texas State University. Before becoming MC 900 Ft. Jesus, Griffin played in local Dallas bands The Telefones and Lithium X-Mas.\n\n\"Hell with the Lid Off\" (1990) was Griffin's first full-length release for MC 900 Ft. Jesus as well as the first time Griffin had appeared on a major record label. Featuring DJ Zero (Patrick Rollins) and the single \"Truth is Out of Style\" which gained a cult following.\n\nThe following year \"Welcome to My Dream\" (1991) was released. DJ Zero appears on \"Welcome to My Dream\" under his real name, Patrick Rollins, because of uncertainty about whether he would have been able to tour in support of the album. His subsequent single, \"The City Sleeps\", was featured in the album in which explored the mind of a serial arsonist. The song sparked controversy in Baltimore when a then ABC affiliate, WJZ, ran a report suggesting that a series of arson in the area was a result of WHFS allowing the song play time.\n\nHis final album, \"One Step Ahead of the Spider\", was released in 1994; it contained the single \"If I Only Had a Brain\", which became his best-known song. The song gained increased exposure from the music video directed for it by Spike Jonze, as well as exposure on MTV's \"Beavis and Butt-Head\" cartoon show. Rollins once again appears but is not listed in the credits.\n\nGriffin eventually became disillusioned with the music industry, and following unproductive sessions for his fourth album, felt he had taken his style of music as far as he wanted to go and overall losing interest in music citing alcoholism. Record label interest waned and eventually in 2001, Griffin officially retired. \nNeeding a new direction, he gained his commercial pilot's license, hoping to become a flight instructor. However, when the September 11 attacks occurred, demand plummeted for flight instructors and Griffin was unable to find a job. Eventually, Griffin took a job at a Borders bookstore.\n\nIn 2007, he began DJing weekly at a Dallas music venue, Lee Harvey's, located in the Cedars neighborhood next to downtown.\n\nOn November 26, 2016, Griffin announced via Facebook that he was set to perform a show at The Kessler Theater in Dallas with a quartet including Chris McGuire, Greg Beck, and Wanz Dover in hopes of kick-starting a tour as well as a possible fourth album with his former label Nettwerk of which had approached Griffin about. On February 3, 2017, the quartet played a sold-out concert performing several of the MC 900 songs, receiving a rapturous ovation.\n\nGriffin's stage name came from a sermon by Oral Roberts, in which the televangelist claimed that he had received a vision of a Jesus, who commanded him to build a hospital on the campus of Oral Roberts University.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7924113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7924113", "title": "Malcolm Baldrige Jr.", "text": "Malcolm Baldrige Jr.\n\nHoward Malcolm \"Mac\" Baldrige Jr. (October 4, 1922July 25, 1987) was an American businessman. He served as the United States Secretary of Commerce from 1981 until his death in 1987. He was inducted into the ProRodeo Hall of Fame in 1988.\n\nBaldrige was born on October 4, 1922 in Omaha, Nebraska. He was the son of H. Malcolm Baldrige, Sr. (1894–1985), a congressman from Nebraska, and the former Regina Katherine Connell (1896–1967). He had a brother, Robert Connell Baldridge (he alone returned the second \"d\" to his last name, which had been dropped in previous generations), and a sister, Letitia Baldrige.\n\nHe attended The Hotchkiss School and Yale University. At Yale, he was a member of a Delta Kappa Epsilon.\n\nBaldrige began his career in the manufacturing industry in 1947, as the foundry hand in an iron company in Connecticut and rose to the presidency of that company by 1960. During World War II, Baldrige served in combat in the Pacific as Captain in the 27th Infantry Division. On March 31, 1951, Baldrige married Margaret \"Midge\" Trowbridge Murray, with whom he had two daughters.\n\nPrior to entering the Cabinet, Baldrige was chairman and chief executive officer of Waterbury, Connecticut-based brass company Scovill, Inc. Having joined Scovill in 1962, he is credited with leading its transformation to a highly diversified manufacturer of consumer, housing and industrial goods from a financially troubled brass mill.\n\nBaldrige was nominated to be Secretary of Commerce by President-elect Ronald Reagan on December 11, 1980, and confirmed by the United States Senate on January 22, 1981. During his tenure, Baldrige played a major role in developing and carrying out Administration trade policy. He took the lead in resolving difficulties in technology transfers with China and India. Baldrige held the first Cabinet-level talks with the Soviet Union in seven years which paved the way for increased access for U.S. firms to the Soviet market. He was highly regarded by the world's most preeminent leaders.\n\nBaldrige's award-winning managerial excellence contributed to long-term improvement in economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in government. Within the Commerce Department, Baldrige reduced the budget by more than 30% and administrative personnel by 25%.\n\n\"How Plain English Works for Business, Twelve Case Studies\" was published by the U.S. Department of Commerce with his introduction, in 1984. In it were twelve chapters on how \"translations\" of complex legal wording or bureaucratic jargon could be simplified and made more clear to any reader. In the section on insurance policy language, an example showed the cumbersome nature of \"While this policy has a loan value, the owner may obtain an advance from XYZ Company upon assignment of the policy as sole security.\" It became \"You can get a loan from us on your policy while it has a loan value. The policy can be the sole security for the loan.\"\n\nBaldrige's introduction read, in part, \"Talking or writing in plain English is a challenge to both the private and public sectors. In this book of case studies, 12 corporations and trade associations tell how they met this challenge. I am grateful for the efforts their officials have given to this partnership project.\"\nBaldrige worked during his boyhood as a ranch hand and earned several awards as a professional team roper on the rodeo circuit. He was the Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association's Rodeo Man of the Year in 1981 and was installed in the Hall of Great Westerners of the National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, in 1984. Baldrige once appeared on the television game show \"To Tell the Truth\" pretending to be rodeo tie-down roping champion Dean Oliver. He was inducted into the ProRodeo Hall of Fame in Colorado Springs, Colorado, in 1988, rodeo's highest honor. \n\nSecretary of Commerce Baldrige died in Northern California on July 25, 1987, after sustaining internal injuries from a rodeo accident while participating in a calf-roping competition when the horse he was riding fell on him at the Jack Roddy Ranch in Brentwood in east Contra Costa County, east of San Francisco. Following the accident, Baldrige was flown by helicopter to John Muir Hospital in Walnut Creek, California, but his internal injuries were too severe. Baldrige was buried in North Cemetery in Woodbury, Connecticut.\n\nHis service as Secretary of Commerce was one of the longest in history. Baldrige is said to have been possibly the most colorful Secretary of Commerce and one of the most beloved.\nBaldrige was a proponent of quality management as a key to his country's prosperity and long-term strength. He took a personal interest in the legislation that became the Quality Improvement Act of 1987 and helped draft one of the early versions. In recognition of his contributions, Congress named the annual award (see Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award) for product quality in his honor.\n\nIn 1987, after his death, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration renamed the oceanographic research ship NOAAS \"Researcher\" (R 103) in Baldriges honor, the ship becoming NOAAS \"Malcolm Baldrige\" (R 103).\n\nOn October 17, 1988, Baldrige was presented posthumously with the Presidential Medal of Freedom by the President Ronald Reagan.\n\n"}
{"id": "50911690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50911690", "title": "Mary Kills People", "text": "Mary Kills People\n\nMary Kills People is a Canadian drama television series starring Caroline Dhavernas. It premiered on Global on January 25, 2017.\n\nOn June 5, 2017, the series was renewed for a second season, which was scheduled to premiere on Global's video-on-demand platforms on January 1 before premiering on television on January 3, 2018.\n\nDr. Mary Harris works at the emergency department of the Eden General Hospital and has a side business as an end of life counselor—she and her partner Des provide assisted suicide. Their lives get complicated when the police start investigating them.\n\n\nThe series, which was to comprise six episodes, was commissioned by TV network Global on January 28, 2016. Production began in summer 2016, and the first episode aired January 25, 2017. In the United States, the series was picked up by Lifetime on October 13, 2016. The channel came on board as a co-producer and was involved in creative aspects of the project, including casting. \"Mary Kills People\" premiered in the US on Lifetime on April 23, 2017.\n\nAs of January 23, 2017, there were talks to produce a second season according to Metro News and Caroline Dhavernas. On June 5, 2017, the series was renewed for a six-episode followup season. Production occurred over summer 2017 in Toronto. Lifetime announced their pickup of the second season in the United States on July 28, 2017; it premiered on March 12, 2018.\n\nThe first season has received a score of 66 on Metacritic, indicating generally favourable reviews, based on eight reviews, and a rating of 100% on review aggregate website Rotten Tomatoes based on ten reviews, the site's critical consensus stating: \"\"Mary Kills People\" is more than its unique premise, with a layered lead performance and consistently entertaining narrative keeping the show's dark comedy grounded in relatable reality.\"\n\nJohn Doyle of \"The Globe and Mail\" called the first episode of the show \"remarkably assured, droll and adult. It’s very smart and utterly intriguing.\" He praises Mary Harris as \"one of the most compelling, original female characters in years\" and Caroline Dhavernas as \"exceptional\" in her portrayal: \"Perhaps the best thing about it is the crazy sparkle in Mary’s eyes. There is something anarchic bubbling inside her.\"\n\n\"Variety\"'s Maureen Ryan said the show \"pulls off a melding of tones — comedic, dramatic, and philosophical — that seems next to impossible,\" but criticized the first season's romance subplots.\n"}
{"id": "53989078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53989078", "title": "Mikkel Aagaard", "text": "Mikkel Aagaard\n\nMikkel Aagaard (born 18 October 1995) is a Danish professional ice hockey forward who is currently an unrestricted free agent. He most recently played with the Manchester Monarchs in the ECHL. \n\nUndrafted, Aagaard played in his native Denmark with Frederikshavn White Hawks before moving to North America to play major junior hockey in the Ontario Hockey League with the Niagara IceDogs and Sudbury Wolves.\n\nOn October 5, 2016, he embarked on his North American pro career in signing with the Stockton Heat of the AHL for the 2016–17 season. Aagaard split the season between the Heat and its ECHL affiliate, the Adirondack Thunder. He compiled 11 points in 25 games with the Heat before appearing in 4 post-season games with the club. \n\nAs a free agent from the Heat, Aagaard opted to continue in the AHL after securing a try-out to attend the Springfield Thunderbirds training camp. In making a positive impression, Aagaard was signed to a standard one-year deal with the Thunderbirds for the 2017–18 season on October 4, 2017. Aagard appeared in 23 games with Springfield before he was re-assigned to ECHL affiliate, the Manchester Monarchs, then later released from his contract on February 1, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "47630615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47630615", "title": "Museum tot zover", "text": "Museum tot zover\n\nThe Nederlands Uitvaart Museum Tot Zover (Dutch Funeral Museum So Far) is a museum in Amsterdam, Netherlands that displays the various funerary practices of the various cultures present in the Netherlands, with the view that these funerary practices provide a better understanding of these cultures.\n\nThe museum is located in De Nieuwe Ooster, a memorial park in Amsterdam that includes a cemetery and crematorium. The original building was designed as a caretaker’s residence by Adriaan Willem Weissman (1858–1923), who was a Dutch city architect best known for designing the Stedelijk Museum.\n\nThe collection includes items involved in funerary practices such as funerary masks, caskets and urns, as well as paintings and movie clips that demonstrate these funerary practices. The museum explores death and funerary practices along four themes: rituals, the body, mourning and remembrance, and memento mori.\n\nIn addition to its collection, the Museum Tot Zover hosts temporary exhibitions of art and history. One of the museum’s exhibitions is “The Last Image,” which is a digital, online exhibition to which anyone can submit content. The premise of this ongoing exhibition is to explore the implications of photography and digital space in the process of death and dying.\n"}
{"id": "43456032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43456032", "title": "Oscar Spirescu", "text": "Oscar Spirescu\n\nOscar Spirescu (1874 – September 7, 1918) was a Romanian conductor, composer and pianist who took his own life in 1918.\n\nBorn in 1874, Bucharest, Romania. He was married and had four children in Romania. He emigrated from Romania to the United States and married for a second time.\n\nIn Romania, he was the conductor of the Romanian Opera Orchestra in Bucharest; in the US he became conductor of the Strand Symphony Orchestra at the Strand Theatre in Manhattan.\n\nHe took his own life on September 7, 1918, with chloroform in Manhattan. He died intestate and his estate was valued at $3,000.\n"}
{"id": "11878927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11878927", "title": "Palliative Care Volunteers International", "text": "Palliative Care Volunteers International\n\nPalliative Care Volunteers International - non-profit organization providing assistance in hospice palliative care in different countries. Founded in 1994 and based in Texas, United States.\n\nThe volunteers receive patients and visitors, answer the telephone, sit with patients, work at fund-raising, speak on behalf of the hospice and so on.\n\nThe organization takes part in the hospice care project in Vietnam with an annual budget of around US$35,000.\n"}
{"id": "3792773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3792773", "title": "Paul Clarkin", "text": "Paul Clarkin\n\nPaul Francis Clarkin (21 August 1950 – 22 July 2004) was a New Zealand polo player.\n\nClarkin started playing polo in his early twenties. He was known internationally as 'Mr Polo'. Together with his wife Chele, he ran a polo club. He also compete as a show-jumper and eventer, and he was a keen huntsman.\n\nHe was married to Chele Clarkin. They had one daughter and two sons:\n\nHe died playing polo in at the Cirencester Park Polo Club in Cirencester, England, after falling during a game in which he was reputedly \"playing a blinder\".\n"}
{"id": "155976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155976", "title": "Pierre Laporte", "text": "Pierre Laporte\n\nPierre Laporte (25 February 1921 – 17 October 1970) was a French Canadian lawyer, journalist and politician who was Minister of Labour of the province of Quebec before being kidnapped and assassinated by members of the group Front de libération du Québec (FLQ) during the October Crisis. Laporte's body was found in the trunk of Paul Rose's car.\n\nPierre Laporte, grandson of the famous Canadian statesman Alfred Leduc, was born in Montreal, Quebec, on 25 February 1921. He was a journalist with \"Le Devoir\" newspaper from 1945 to 1961, and was known for his crusading work against Quebec's then-Premier Maurice Duplessis. During his years in journalism, he published a number of series targeting the management of the Duplessis government. In 1954, \"Le Devoir\" ran a six-part series on problems during the construction of the Bersimis-1 generating station. In 1958, he was part of a team of \"Le Devoir\" reporters exposing the natural gas scandal, leading to the formation of the Salvas Commission, soon after the election of 1960.\n\nAfter Duplessis' death, Laporte successfully ran for a seat in Chambly in the Quebec National Assembly and served in the government of Premier Jean Lesage. Laporte was a member of the Quebec Liberal Party, and considered to be a leading member of the party's left wing. After Lesage announced in 1969 that he would step down as party leader, Laporte ran to succeed him, but lost the 1970 Quebec Liberal Party leadership election to fellow cabinet member Robert Bourassa.\n\nWhen Bourassa was elected Premier of Quebec in 1970, he appointed Laporte as Parliamentary Leader, Minister of Labour and immigration.\n\nOn 10 October 1970, Laporte was kidnapped from his home on Robitaille Street in Saint-Lambert, Quebec, by the Chénier Cell of the FLQ. The kidnappers – Paul and Jacques Rose, Francis Simard and Bernard Lortie – approached Laporte while he was playing football with his nephew on his front lawn and forced him into their vehicle at gunpoint. They dubbed him the \"Minister of Unemployment and Assimilation,\" and held him hostage, demanding the release of 23 \"political prisoners\" in exchange for his freedom. British diplomat James Cross was also being held hostage by the FLQ at the time, having been kidnapped on 5 October (Cross survived the experience, and was released on 3 December).\n\nPrime Minister Pierre Trudeau invoked Canada's War Measures Act which allowed mass raids and arrests to take place in order to find the group who had kidnapped Laporte and Cross. Trudeau said:\nOn 17 October, seven days after he went missing, Laporte's body was found in the trunk of a 1968 Chevrolet Biscayne at Montreal Saint-Hubert Longueuil Airport. His kidnappers were subsequently captured and sentenced for his murder, and served terms ranging from 20 years to life. Laporte was buried in the Cimetière Notre-Dame-des-Neiges in Montreal, Quebec.\n\nIn 2010, journalist Guy Gendron produced a documentary series for Radio-Canada, in which he asserted that the killing of Pierre Laporte was unintentional – \"Il a été étouffé dans un moment de panique [He was strangled in a moment of panic]\".\n\n\nOn the 40th anniversary of his death, 17 October, 2010, a monument to Laporte was unveiled by then-Premier of Quebec, Jean Charest. It stands at the St. Lawrence Seaway Park, near Laporte's home on Robitaille Street. On the monument is inscribed: \"Nul ne vit pour soi-même. Nul ne meurt pour soi-même\" (\"No one lives for oneself. No one dies for oneself\").\n\n"}
{"id": "5657435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5657435", "title": "Production part approval process", "text": "Production part approval process\n\n(PPAP) is used in the automotive supply chain for establishing confidence in suppliers and their production processes. Actual measurements are taken of the parts produced and are used to complete the various test sheets of PPAP:\n\n\"All customer engineering design record and specification requirements are properly understood by the supplier and that the process has the potential to produce product consistently meeting these requirements during an actual production run at the quoted production rate.\" Version 4 March 1, 2006\n\nAlthough individual manufacturers have their own particular requirements, the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) has developed a common PPAP standard as part of the Advanced Product Quality Planning (APQP) – and encourages the use of common terminology and standard forms to document project status.\n\nThe PPAP process is designed to demonstrate that a supplier has developed their design and production process to meet the client's requirements, minimizing the risk of failure by effective use of APQP. Requests for part approval must therefore be supported in official PPAP format and with documented results when needed \n\nThe purpose of any Production Part Approval Process (PPAP) is\n\n\nPPAP is a series of documents gathered in one specific location (a binder or electronically) called the \"PPAP Package\". The PPAP package is a series of documents which need a formal certification/sign-off by the supplier and approval/sign-off by the customer. The form that summarizes this package is called PSW (Part Submission Warrant). The signature in the supplier certification area of the PSW indicates that the supplier-responsible person (usually the Quality Engineer or Quality Manager) has reviewed this package and that the customer-responsible person (usually a Customer Quality Engineer or Customer Quality Manager) has not identified any issues that would prevent its approbation.\n\nThe documentation on the PPAP package is closely related to the advanced product quality planning process used during the design and development of new vehicles and component systems to reduce the risk of unexpected failure due to errors in design and manufacture. The PPAP manual is published by the AIAG, and specifies generic requirements for obtaining PPAP approvals. Additional customer specific requirements may be imposed by particular clients (vehicle manufacturers) and incorporated in the purchasing contracts. Details of 'customer specific' requirements may be found on the International Automotive Task Force (IATF) website or supplier portals provided by the vehicle manufacturers. A new website, developed by customer-specific requirements, LLC, has been created to help solve problems associated with the distribution and accessibility of customer-specific requirements.\n\nSuppliers are required to obtain PPAP approval from the vehicle manufacturers whenever a new or modified component is introduced to production, or the manufacturing process is changed. Obtaining approval requires the supplier to provide sample parts and documentary evidence showing that:\n\n\nPPAP may be required for all components and materials incorporated in the finished product, and may also be required if components are processed by external sub-contractors.\n\nThe term ISIR (initial sample inspection report) is being used by German companies like VW and BMW. ISIR form is standardized by Verband der Automobilindustrie e. V., short VDA, a German interest group of the German automobile industry, both automobile manufacturers and automobile component suppliers. The term is also used by some other companies like Hyundai and Kia. In fact ISIR is like the Warrant and Inspection Report of PPAP document package. PPAP document package includes some other document such as PFMEA, control plan, drawing, MSA, capability data etc. Besides ISIR document, other documents like that of PPAP is normally required by VW and Hyundai for release of a product and process. The PPAP is like the older ISIR plus a lot more, unless your customer has a specific requirement for using their ISIR within their system. ISIR is a summary of the initial sample being presented at what ever state. The PSW is supported and validated by the ISIR. This does not mean the product being presented is under serial conditions but just states with evidence the current status.\n\nPPAP is the confirmation that the product meets the customer requirements for series production. The PPAP will be considered signed when a full PSW is approved by your customer and added to the PPAP folder. The PSW would always be supported with an ISIR but the PPAP is only considered approved when a FULL PSW is endorsed with an ISIR.\n\nIn essence the PSW and ISIR are part of PPAP or VDA and can even be outside of PPAP in cases such as first off tool parts which should be submitted in most cases with a PSW and ISIR but will not be approved in PPAP until series conditions are met.\n\nBelow is the list of all 19 elements, and a brief description of them.\n\n\nPPAP requirements are typically distinguished by level as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31080581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31080581", "title": "Rick Genest", "text": "Rick Genest\n\nRick Genest (August 7, 1985 – August 1, 2018) was a Canadian artist, actor, and fashion model. He was also known as Zombie Boy.\n\nGenest was born in Châteauguay, Quebec. Before he had any tattoos, he was diagnosed with a brain tumor. He was on the surgery waitlist for six months, during which he contemplated his own life and possible death, before undergoing the surgery with minimal complications.\n\nGenest currently holds the Guinness World Records for the most tattoos of insects (176) and the most tattoos of human bones (139).\n\nTattooed as a living skeleton, Genest also worked in various sideshows and freak shows across Canada as an illustrated man. Not long after beginning his facial tattoos, Genest was first introduced to the public on November 13, 2006 in a blog post on BME's ModBlog, which was followed in March 2008 by his first interview, by which time his tattoos were largely completed. In this interview Genest clarified that he preferred the moniker \"Zombie\" to \"Skullboy\", as BME had been referring to him. \n\nThe introductions on RzyM's Channel led to increasingly mainstream media coverage, notably a June 2008 feature in \"Bizarre\" magazine. In the 2009 television film \"Carny\", starring Lou Diamond Phillips as a small town sheriff, Genest was seen as a Tattooed Man at the Carnival. Following, he was again discovered by Marc Quinn, in Bromont, Quebec, where Genest was working with the sideshow, \"Alive on the Inside\", at Carnivàle Lune Bleue during the summer of 2010.\n\nOn January 19, 2011, Genest was featured in the new Thierry Mugler Autumn/Winter men's collection, headlining it on the brand's website, after his discovery by Formichetti, also Mugler's creative director. It was Genest's involvement and Lady Gaga's urging which resulted in the menswear show, something not originally planned. His involvement also influenced Formichetti on the collection itself. The show was accompanied by a video featuring Genest, shot by fashion photographer Mariano Vivanco. He later featured alongside Lady Gaga in the fashion show for the women's 2011 Autumn/Winter line.\n\nOn February 27, 2011, Genest was featured in Lady Gaga's video for \"Born This Way\", with Lady Gaga wearing makeup to replicate Genest's tattoos. Genest was featured in the sixth volume of \"Vogue Hommes Japan\" in an editorial titled \"Hard To Be Passive\". In the Summer issue of \"GQ Style\" (UK), Formichetti and he are interviewed, with Genest shot in Mugler by Karim Sadli for the editorial.\n\nIn late 2011, Genest was featured in a campaign entitled \"Go Beyond the Cover\", promoting Dermablend professional makeup products, appearing in a video where a makeup team covered all the tattoos on his head, torso, arms, and part of his back in its concealer product. The advert then shows him sitting with the phrase \"How do you judge a book?\". He then proceeds to remove portions of the makeup, starting with a section of his chest to reveal the tattoo underneath, continuing to his face. The video then shows the process of applying the cover up played backwards. The commercial success of this campaign led to a 2-year endorsement contract with L'Oreal for Genest, who became its first ever male spokesperson. Genest also appeared in the music video of the Polish pop singer \"Honey\". The video for her song \"Sabotage\" was released on January 19, 2012.\n\nFor the 2012 San Diego Comic Con, the Tonner Doll Company produced \"Zombie Boy\", a limited edition character figure in Genest's likeness. He was Tonner's guest at the convention as well. Included with each doll is a certificate of authenticity signed by Genest (as \"Rico the Zombie\"). The edition was limited to 500 dolls, all of which were sold as of July 27, 2012.\n\nIn September 2012, Genest became the face of the Jay-Z music fashion label Roc-A-Wear for its re-launch in Europe. \n\nHe was cast as the character \"foreman\" in the 2013 film \"47 Ronin\", featuring Keanu Reeves. Genest was featured in the marketing for the film, appearing on posters and in trailers; however, due to various post-process tensions, stemming from the 2011 version of the film in which Universal executives wanted Reeves to become a more integral part of the film, Genest was largely edited out of the final version.\n\nGenest collaborated with British solo artist KAV on the single \"Dirty Rejects\" released May 21, 2013. They spent the first part of 2013 recording an album project and a video titled \"Monsters Versus the World\" in Los Angeles. The project was discontinued.\n\nAs of January 2015, Genest was working with Riggs, ex-Rob Zombie guitarist, on an upcoming album. Zombie Boy music featuring Riggs. On the horror news site Bloody Disgusting, a “Zombie Boy 666 Medley” video was released featuring samples of six songs to be on the upcoming album.\n\nIn June 2017, as part of the TEDx #DISRUPTyou, Genest released a video titled \"Normal is an illusion\", which recounted his experiences with a brain tumour, among other things. \n\nPlanned to be unveiled in 2019, an sculpture of Genest called “Self-Conscious Gene” will be a new permanent fixture at the Science Museum, London, UK. The statue is to be created by British artist Marc Quinn.\n\nOn August 1, 2018, Genest was found dead after a fall from the balcony at his Plateau-Mont-Royal apartment. A police source told CBC it was a suicide. Some relatives and friends believe it was an accident. He left no suicide note and his autopsy found no trace of drugs. His manager, of a similar height, noted the balcony railing ends below his hips.\n\n"}
{"id": "24597931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24597931", "title": "Robert de Bonnefoy", "text": "Robert de Bonnefoy\n\nSous Lieutenant Joseph Denis Bernard Robert de Bonnefoy (1894–1946) was a French World War I flying ace credited with six aerial victories.\n\nDe Bonnefoy was a pre-war cavalryman who volunteered for aviation as soon as the war began. His first flying assignment was to Escadrille 101 to pilot a Voisin. He was removed from the front for a spell as an instructor, then successively assigned to two Nieuport squadrons, Escadrilles 68 and 65. He scored his first aerial victory on 2 July 1916, and gradually accumulated five by 5 November 1916. In 1917, he transferred yet again, to Escadrille 84, and closed out his string with his seventh win on 21 August 1917. The much traveled ace would be temporarily withdrawn for a rest, then assigned to Escadrilles 15 and 31 before ending the war in 23.\n\nDe Bonnefoy remained in the military after the war. He married Alice Louise Millevoye 6 March 1918 in Lyon. He became an Officer of the Légion d'honneur. He died of hypothermia after swimming in the river Ain.\n\nMédaille militaire\n\n\"A pilot of exceptional ardor and bravery. He has distinguished himself in a number of long distance bombardments, and has given proof of the highest military qualities during the course of recent operations. On 27 July 1916, he downed an enemy plane and forced a second to land in its lines. Having had, on 30 July, his plane riddled by bullets during the course of aerial combat, he nevertheless succeeded, by the grace of his energy and sang-froid, to return his plane to our lines. On 3 August he downed another machine. Already cited three times.\"\nChevalier de la Légion d'honneur\n\n\"Officer of great worth, model of sang-froid, of strength and character, has distinguished himself during the course of his latest offensives by attacking a heavily protected enemy balloon. Médaille militaire for feats of war. Eight citations, two wounds.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1035694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1035694", "title": "Roger Adam", "text": "Roger Adam\n\nRoger Adam was a French aircraft designer and manufacturer who produced light aircraft in kit from 1948 to 1955. He established the firm Etablissements Aeronautiques R. Adam.\n\n"}
{"id": "218075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218075", "title": "SS Edmund Fitzgerald", "text": "SS Edmund Fitzgerald\n\nSS \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" was an American Great Lakes freighter that sank in a Lake Superior storm on November 10, 1975, with the loss of the entire crew of 29. When launched on June 7, 1958, she was the largest ship on North America's Great Lakes, and she remains the largest to have sunk there.\n\nFor 17 years, \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" carried taconite iron ore from mines near Duluth, Minnesota, to iron works in Detroit, Toledo, and other Great Lakes ports. As a workhorse, she set seasonal haul records six times, often breaking her own previous record. Captain Peter Pulcer was known for piping music day or night over the ship's intercom while passing through the St. Clair and Detroit Rivers (between Lakes Huron and Erie), and entertaining spectators at the Soo Locks (between Lakes Superior and Huron) with a running commentary about the ship. Her size, record-breaking performance, and \"DJ captain\" endeared \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" to boat watchers.\n\nCarrying a full cargo of ore pellets with Captain Ernest M. McSorley in command, she embarked on her ill-fated voyage from Superior, Wisconsin, near Duluth, on the afternoon of November 9, 1975. En route to a steel mill near Detroit, \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" joined a second freighter, . By the next day, the two ships were caught in a severe storm on Lake Superior, with near hurricane-force winds and waves up to high. Shortly after 7:10 p.m., \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" suddenly sank in Canadian (Ontario) waters deep, about from Whitefish Bay near the twin cities of Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, and Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario—a distance \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" could have covered in just over an hour at her top speed. Although \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" had reported being in difficulty earlier, no distress signals were sent before she sank; Captain McSorley's last message to \"Arthur M. Anderson\" said, \"We are holding our own.\" Her crew of 29 perished, and no bodies were recovered. The exact cause of the sinking remains unknown, though many books, studies, and expeditions have examined it. \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" may have been swamped, suffered structural failure or topside damage, been shoaled, or suffered from a combination of these.\n\nThe disaster is one of the best-known in the history of Great Lakes shipping. Gordon Lightfoot made it the subject of his 1976 hit song \"The Wreck of the \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"\" after reading an article, \"The Cruelest Month\", in the November 24, 1975, issue of \"Newsweek\". The sinking led to changes in Great Lakes shipping regulations and practices that included mandatory survival suits, depth finders, positioning systems, increased freeboard, and more frequent inspection of vessels.\n\nNorthwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, invested in the iron and minerals industries on a large-scale basis, including the construction of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\", which represented the first such investment by any American life insurance company. In 1957, they contracted Great Lakes Engineering Works (GLEW), of River Rouge, Michigan, to design and construct the ship \"within a foot of the maximum length allowed for passage through the soon-to-be completed Saint Lawrence Seaway.\" The ship's value at that time was $7 million (equivalent to $ in ). \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" was the first laker built to the maximum St. Lawrence Seaway size, which was long, wide, and with a draft. The moulded depth (roughly speaking, the vertical height of the hull) was . The hold depth (the inside height of the cargo hold) was . GLEW laid the first keel plate on August 7 the same year.\n\nWith a deadweight capacity of , and a hull, \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" was the longest ship on the Great Lakes, earning her the title Queen of the Lakes until September 17, 1959, when the SS \"Murray Bay\" was launched. \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s three central cargo holds were loaded through 21 watertight hatches, each of steel. Originally coal-fired, her boilers were converted to burn oil during the 1971–72 winter layup. In 1969, the ship's maneuverability was improved by the installation of a diesel-powered bow thruster.\n\nBy ore freighter standards, the interior of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" was luxurious. Her J.L. Hudson Company-designed furnishings included deep pile carpeting, tiled bathrooms, drapes over the portholes, and leather swivel chairs in the guest lounge. There were two guest state rooms for passengers. Air conditioning extended to the crew quarters, which featured more amenities than usual. A large galley and fully stocked pantry supplied meals for two dining rooms. \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" pilothouse was outfitted with \"state-of-the-art nautical equipment and a beautiful map room.\"\n\nNorthwestern Mutual named the ship after its president and chairman of the board, Edmund Fitzgerald. Fitzgerald's own grandfather had himself been a lake captain, and his father owned the Milwaukee Drydock Company that built and repaired ships. More than 15,000 people attended \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s christening and launch ceremony on June 7, 1958. But the event was plagued by misfortunes: When Elizabeth Fitzgerald, wife of Edmund Fitzgerald, tried to christen the ship by smashing a champagne bottle over the bow, it took her three attempts to break it. A delay of 36 minutes followed while the shipyard crew struggled to release the keel blocks. Upon sideways launch, the ship created a large wave that \"doused\" the spectators and then crashed into a pier before righting herself. One man watching the launching had a heart attack and later died. Other witnesses later said they swore the ship was \"trying to climb right out of the water\". On September 22, 1958, \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" completed nine days of sea trials.\n\nNorthwestern Mutual's normal practice was to purchase ships for operation by other companies. In \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s case, they signed a 25-year contract with Oglebay Norton Corporation to operate the vessel. Oglebay Norton immediately designated \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" the flagship of its Columbia Transportation fleet.\n\n\"Edmund Fitzgerald\" was a record-setting workhorse, often beating her own milestones. The vessel's record load for a single trip was in 1969. For 17 years, \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" carried taconite from Minnesota's Iron Range mines near Duluth, Minnesota, to iron works in Detroit, Toledo, and other ports. She set seasonal haul records six different times. Her nicknames included \"Fitz\", \"Pride of the American Side\", \"Mighty Fitz\", \"Toledo Express\", \"Big Fitz\", and the \"\"Titanic\" of the Great Lakes\". Loading \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" with taconite pellets took about four and a half hours while unloading took around 14 hours. A round trip between Superior, Wisconsin, and Detroit, Michigan, usually took her five days and she averaged 47 similar trips per season. The vessel's usual route was between Superior, Wisconsin, and Toledo, Ohio, although her port of destination could vary. By November 1975, \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" had logged an estimated 748 round trips on the Great Lakes and covered more than a million miles, \"a distance roughly equivalent to 44 trips around the world.\"\n\nUp until a few weeks before her loss, passengers had traveled on board as company guests. Frederick Stonehouse wrote:\n\nBecause of her size, appearance, string of records, and \"DJ captain,\" \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" became a favorite of boat watchers throughout her career. Although Captain Peter Pulcer was in command of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" on trips when cargo records were set, \"he is best remembered ... for piping music day or night over the ship's intercom system\" while passing through the St. Clair and Detroit Rivers. While navigating the Soo Locks he would often come out of the pilothouse and use a bullhorn to entertain tourists with a commentary on details about \"Edmund Fitzgerald\".\n\nIn 1969, \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" received a safety award for eight years of operation without a time-off worker injury. The vessel ran aground in 1969, and she collided with SS \"Hochelaga\" in 1970. Later that same year, she struck the wall of a lock, an accident repeated in 1973 and 1974. During 1974, she lost her original bow anchor in the Detroit River. None of these mishaps, however, were considered serious or unusual. Freshwater ships were built to last more than half a century, and \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" should still have had a long career ahead of her when she sank.\n\n\"Edmund Fitzgerald\" left Superior, Wisconsin, at 2:15 p.m. on the afternoon of November 9, 1975, under the command of Captain Ernest M. McSorley. She was en route to the steel mill on Zug Island, near Detroit, Michigan, with a cargo of of taconite ore pellets and soon reached her full speed of . Around 5 p.m., \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" joined a second freighter under the command of Captain Jesse B. \"Bernie\" Cooper, , destined for Gary, Indiana, out of Two Harbors, Minnesota. The weather forecast was not unusual for November and the National Weather Service (NWS) predicted that a storm would pass just south of Lake Superior by 7 a.m. on November 10.\n\nSS \"Wilfred Sykes\" loaded opposite \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" at the Burlington Northern Dock #1 and departed at 4:15 p.m., about two hours after \"Edmund Fitzgerald\". In contrast to the NWS forecast, Captain Dudley J. Paquette of \"Wilfred Sykes\" predicted that a major storm would directly cross Lake Superior. From the outset, he chose a route that took advantage of the protection offered by the lake's north shore in order to avoid the worst effects of the storm. The crew of \"Wilfred Sykes\" followed the radio conversations between \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" and \"Arthur M. Anderson\" during the first part of their trip and overheard their captains deciding to take the regular Lake Carriers' Association downbound route. The NWS altered its forecast at 7:00 p.m., issuing gale warnings for the whole of Lake Superior. \"Arthur M. Anderson\" and \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" altered course northward seeking shelter along the Ontario coast where they encountered a winter storm at 1:00 a.m. on November 10. \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" reported winds of and waves high. Captain Paquette of \"Wilfred Sykes\" reported that after 1 a.m., he overheard McSorley say that he had reduced the ship's speed because of the rough conditions. Paquette said he was stunned to later hear McSorley, who was not known for turning aside or slowing down, state that \"we're going to try for some lee from Isle Royale. You're walking away from us anyway ... I can't stay with you.\"\n\nAt 2:00 a.m. on November 10, the NWS upgraded its warnings from gale to storm, forecasting winds of . Until then, \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" had followed \"Arthur M. Anderson,\" which was travelling at a constant , but the faster \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" pulled ahead at about 3:00 a.m. As the storm center passed over the ships, they experienced shifting winds, with wind speeds temporarily dropping as wind direction changed from northeast to south and then northwest. After 1:50 p.m., when \"Arthur M. Anderson\" logged winds of , wind speeds again picked up rapidly and it began to snow at 2:45 p.m., reducing visibility; \"Arthur M. Anderson\" lost sight of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\", which was about ahead at the time.\n\nShortly after 3:30 p.m., Captain McSorley radioed \"Arthur M. Anderson\" to report that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" was taking on water and had lost two vent covers and a fence railing. The vessel had also developed a list. Two of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s six bilge pumps ran continuously to discharge shipped water. McSorley said that he would slow his ship down so that \"Arthur M. Anderson\" could close the gap between them. In a broadcast shortly afterward, the United States Coast Guard (USCG) warned all shipping that the Soo Locks had been closed and they should seek safe anchorage. Shortly after 4:10 p.m., McSorley called \"Arthur M. Anderson\" again to report a radar failure and asked \"Arthur M. Anderson\" to keep track of them. \"Edmund Fitzgerald\", effectively blind, slowed to let \"Arthur M. Anderson\" come within a range so she could receive radar guidance from the other ship.\n\nFor a time, \"Arthur M. Anderson\" directed \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" toward the relative safety of Whitefish Bay; then, at 4:39 p.m., McSorley contacted the USCG station in Grand Marais, Michigan, to inquire whether the Whitefish Point light and navigation beacon were operational. The USCG replied that their monitoring equipment indicated that both instruments were inactive. McSorley then hailed any ships in the Whitefish Point area to report the state of the navigational aids, receiving an answer from Captain Cedric Woodard of \"Avafors\" between 5:00 and 5:30 p.m. that the Whitefish Point light was on but not the radio beacon. Woodard testified to the Marine Board that he overheard McSorley say, \"Don't allow nobody on deck,\" as well as something about a vent that Woodard could not understand. Some time later, McSorley told Woodard, \"I have a 'bad list', I have lost both radars, and am taking heavy seas over the deck in one of the worst seas I have ever been in.\"\n\nBy late in the afternoon of November 10, sustained winds of over were recorded by ships and observation points across eastern Lake Superior. \"Arthur M. Anderson\" logged sustained winds as high as at 4:52 p.m., while waves increased to as high as by 6:00 p.m. \"Arthur M. Anderson\" was also struck by gusts and rogue waves as high as .\n\nThe last communication from the ship came at approximately 7:10 p.m., when \"Arthur M. Anderson\" notified \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" of an upbound ship and asked how she was doing. McSorley reported, \"We are holding our own.\" She sank minutes later. No distress signal was received, and ten minutes later, \"Arthur M. Anderson\" lost the ability either to raise \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" by radio or to detect her on radar.\n\nCaptain Cooper of \"Arthur M. Anderson\" first called the USCG in Sault Ste. Marie at 7:39 p.m. on channel 16, the radio distress frequency. The USCG responders instructed him to call back on channel 12 because they wanted to keep their emergency channel open and they were having difficulty with their communication systems, including antennas blown down by the storm. Cooper then contacted the upbound saltwater vessel \"Nanfri\" and was told that she could not pick up \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" on her radar either. Despite repeated attempts to raise the USCG, Cooper was not successful until 7:54 p.m. when the officer on duty asked him to keep watch for a boat lost in the area. At about 8:25 p.m., Cooper again called the USCG to express his concern about \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" and at 9:03 p.m. reported her missing. Petty Officer Philip Branch later testified, \"I considered it serious, but at the time it was not urgent.\"\n\nLacking appropriate search-and-rescue vessels to respond to \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s disaster, at approximately 9:00 p.m., the USCG asked \"Arthur M. Anderson\" to turn around and look for survivors. Around 10:30 p.m., the USCG asked all commercial vessels anchored in or near Whitefish Bay to assist in the search. The initial search for survivors was carried out by \"Arthur M. Anderson\", and a second freighter, . The efforts of a third freighter, the Toronto-registered , were foiled by the weather. The USCG sent a buoy tender, , from Duluth, Minnesota, but it would take two and a half hours to launch and a day to travel to the search area. The Traverse City, Michigan, USCG station launched an HU-16 fixed-wing search aircraft that arrived on the scene at 10:53 p.m. while an HH-52 USCG helicopter with a 3.8-million-candlepower searchlight arrived at 1:00 a.m. on November 11. Canadian Coast Guard aircraft joined the three-day search and the Ontario Provincial Police established and maintained a beach patrol all along the eastern shore of Lake Superior.\n\nAlthough the search recovered debris, including lifeboats and rafts, none of the crew were found. On her final voyage, \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s crew of 29 consisted of the captain, the first, second and third mates, five engineers, three oilers, a cook, a wiper, two maintenance men, three watchmen, three deckhands, three wheelsmen, two porters, a cadet and a steward. Most of the crew was from Ohio and Wisconsin; their ages ranged from 20-year-old watchman Karl A. Peckol to Captain McSorley, 63 years old and planning his retirement.\n\n\"Edmund Fitzgerald\" is among the largest and best-known vessels lost on the Great Lakes but she is not alone on the Lake Superior seabed in that area. In the years between 1816, when \"Invincible\" was lost, and 1975, when \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" sank, the Whitefish Point area had claimed at least 240 ships.\n\nA U.S. Navy Lockheed P-3 Orion aircraft, piloted by Lt. George Conner and equipped to detect magnetic anomalies usually associated with submarines, found the wreck on November 14, 1975. \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" lay about west of Deadman's Cove, Ontario, from the entrance to Whitefish Bay to the southeast, in Canadian waters close to the international boundary at a depth of . A further November 14–16 survey by the USCG using a side scan sonar revealed two large objects lying close together on the lake floor. The U.S. Navy also contracted Seaward, Inc., to conduct a second survey between November 22 and 25.\n\nFrom May 20 to 28, 1976, the U.S. Navy dived the wreck using its unmanned submersible, CURV-III, and found \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" lying in two large pieces in of water. Navy estimates put the length of the bow section at and that of the stern section at . The bow section stood upright in the mud, some from the stern section that lay capsized at a 50-degree angle from the bow. In between the two broken sections lay a large mass of taconite pellets and scattered wreckage lying about, including hatch covers and hull plating.\n\nIn 1980, during a Lake Superior research dive expedition, marine explorer Jean-Michel Cousteau, the son of Jacques Cousteau, sent two divers from in the first manned submersible dive to \"Edmund Fitzgerald\". The dive was brief, and although the dive team drew no final conclusions, they speculated that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" had broken up on the surface.\n\nThe Michigan Sea Grant Program organized a three-day dive to survey \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" in 1989. The primary objective was to record 3-D videotape for use in museum educational programs and production of documentaries. The expedition used a towed survey system (TSS Mk1) and a self-propelled, tethered, free swimming remotely operated underwater vehicle (ROV). The Mini Rover ROV was equipped with miniature stereoscopic cameras and wide angle lenses in order to produce 3-D images. The towed survey system and the Mini Rover ROV were designed, built and operated by Chris Nicholson of Deep Sea Systems International, Inc. Participants included the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the National Geographic Society, the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the Great Lakes Shipwreck Historical Society (GLSHS), and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the latter providing RV \"Grayling\" as the support vessel for the ROV. The GLSHS used part of the five hours of video footage produced during the dives in a documentary and the National Geographic Society used a segment in a broadcast. Frederick Stonehouse, who wrote one of the first books on the \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" wreck, moderated a 1990 panel review of the video that drew no conclusions about the cause of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s sinking.\n\nCanadian explorer Joseph B. MacInnis organized and led six publicly funded dives to \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" over a three-day period in 1994. Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution provided \"Edwin A. Link\" as the support vessel, and their manned submersible, \"Celia.\" The GLSHS paid $10,000 for three of its members to each join a dive and take still pictures. MacInnis concluded that the notes and video obtained during the dives did not provide an explanation why \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" sank. The same year, longtime sport diver Fred Shannon formed Deepquest Ltd., and organized a privately funded dive to the wreck of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\", using Delta Oceanographic's submersible, \"Delta.\" Deepquest Ltd. conducted seven dives and took more than 42 hours of underwater video while Shannon set the record for the longest submersible dive to \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" at 211 minutes. Prior to conducting the dives, Shannon studied NOAA navigational charts and found that the international boundary had changed three times before its publication by NOAA in 1976. Shannon determined that based on GPS coordinates from the 1994 Deepquest expedition, \"at least one-third of the two acres of immediate wreckage containing the two major portions of the vessel is in U.S. waters because of an error in the position of the U.S.–Canada boundary line shown on official lake charts.\"\n\nShannon's group discovered the remains of a crew member partly dressed in coveralls and wearing a life jacket lying face up on the lake bottom alongside the bow of the ship, indicating that at least one of the crew was aware of the possibility of sinking. The life jacket had deteriorated canvas and \"what is thought to be six rectangular cork blocks ... clearly visible.\" Shannon concluded that \"massive and advancing structural failure\" caused \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" to break apart on the surface and sink.\n\nMacInnis led another series of dives in 1995 to salvage the bell from \"Edmund Fitzgerald\". The Sault Tribe of Chippewa Indians backed the expedition by co-signing a loan in the amount of $250,000. Canadian engineer Phil Nuytten's atmospheric diving suit, known as the \"Newtsuit,\" was used to retrieve the bell from the ship, replace it with a replica, and put a beer can in \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s pilothouse. That same year, Terrence Tysall and Mike Zee set multiple records when they used trimix gas to scuba dive to \"Edmund Fitzgerald\". The pair are the only people known to have touched the \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" wreck. They also set records for the deepest scuba dive on the Great Lakes and the deepest shipwreck dive, and were the first divers to reach \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" without the aid of a submersible. It took six minutes to reach the wreck, six minutes to survey it, and three hours to resurface to avoid decompression sickness, also known as \"the bends.\"\n\nUnder the \"Ontario Heritage Act\", activities on registered archeological sites require a license. In March 2005, the Whitefish Point Preservation Society accused the Great Lakes Shipwreck Historical Society (GLSHS) of conducting an unauthorized dive to \"Edmund Fitzgerald\". Although the director of the GLSHS admitted to conducting a sonar scan of the wreck in 2002, he denied such a survey required a license at the time it was carried out.\n\nAn April 2005 amendment to the \"Ontario Heritage Act\" allows the Ontario government to impose a license requirement on dives, the operation of submersibles, side scan sonars or underwater cameras within a designated radius around protected sites. Conducting any of those activities without a license would result in fine of up to . On the basis of the amended law, to protect wreck sites considered \"watery graves\", the Ontario government issued updated regulations in January 2006, including an area with a radius around \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" and other specifically designated marine archeological sites. In 2009, a further amendment to the \"Ontario Heritage Act\" imposed licensing requirements on any type of surveying device.\n\nExtreme weather and sea conditions play a role in all of the published theories regarding \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s sinking, but they differ on the other causal factors.\n\nIn 2005 NOAA and the NWS ran a computer simulation, including weather and wave conditions, covering the period from November 9, 1975, until the early morning of November 11. Analysis of the simulation showed that two separate areas of high wind appeared over Lake Superior at 4:00 p.m. on November 10. One had speeds in excess of and the other winds in excess of . The southeastern part of the lake, the direction in which \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" was heading, had the highest winds. Average wave heights increased to near by 7:00 p.m., November 10, and winds exceeded over most of southeastern Lake Superior.\n\n\"Edmund Fitzgerald\" sank at the eastern edge of the area of high wind where the long fetch, or distance that wind blows over water, produced significant waves averaging over by 7:00 p.m. and over at 8:00 p.m. The simulation also showed one in 100 waves reaching and one out of every 1,000 reaching . Since the ship was heading east-southeastward, the waves likely caused \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" to roll heavily.\n\nAt the time of the sinking, the ship \"Arthur M. Anderson\" reported northwest winds of , matching the simulation analysis result of . The analysis further showed that the maximum sustained winds reached near hurricane force of about with gusts to at the time and location where \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" sank.\n\nA group of three rogue waves, often called \"three sisters,\" was reported in the vicinity of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" at the time she sank. The \"three sisters\" phenomenon is said to occur on Lake Superior as a result of a sequence of three rogue waves forming that are one-third larger than normal waves. When the first wave hits a ship's deck, before its water drains away the second wave strikes. The third incoming wave adds to the two accumulated backwashes, suddenly overloading the deck with tons of water.\n\nCaptain Cooper of \"Arthur M. Anderson\" reported that his ship was \"hit by two 30 to 35 foot seas about 6:30 p.m., one burying the aft cabins and damaging a lifeboat by pushing it right down onto the saddle. The second wave of this size, perhaps 35 foot, came over the bridge deck.\" Cooper went on to say that these two waves, possibly followed by a third, continued in the direction of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" and would have struck about the time she sank. This theory postulates that the \"three sisters\" compounded the twin problems of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s known list and her lower speed in heavy seas that already allowed water to remain on her deck for longer than usual.\n\nThe \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" episode of the 2010 television series \"Dive Detectives\" features the wave-generating tank of the National Research Council's Institute for Naval Technology in St. John's, and the tank's simulation of the effect of a rogue wave upon a scale model of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\". The simulation indicated such a rogue wave could almost completely submerge the bow or stern of the ship with water, at least temporarily.\n\nThe July 26, 1977, USCG Marine Casualty Report suggested that the accident was caused by ineffective hatch closures. The report concluded that these devices failed to prevent waves from inundating the cargo hold. The flooding occurred gradually and probably imperceptibly throughout the final day, finally resulting in a fatal loss of buoyancy and stability. As a result, \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" plummeted to the bottom without warning. Video footage of the wreck site showed that most of her hatch clamps were in perfect condition. The USCG Marine board concluded that the few damaged clamps were probably the only ones fastened. As a result, ineffective hatch closure caused \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" to flood and founder.\n\nFrom the beginning of the USCG inquiry, some of the crewmen's families and various labor organizations believed the USCG findings could be tainted because there were serious questions regarding their preparedness as well as licensing and rules changes. Paul Trimble, a retired USCG vice admiral and president of the Lake Carriers Association (LCA), wrote a letter to the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) on September 16, 1977, that included the following statements of objection to the USCG findings:\nIt was common practice for ore freighters, even in foul weather, to embark with not all cargo clamps locked in place on the hatch covers. Maritime author Wolff reported that depending on weather conditions, all the clamps were eventually set within one to two days. Captain Paquette of \"Wilfred Sykes\" was dismissive of suggestions that unlocked hatch clamps caused \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" to founder. He said that he commonly sailed in fine weather using the minimum number of clamps necessary to secure the hatch covers.\n\nThe May 4, 1978, NTSB findings differed from the USCG. The NTSB made the following observations based on the CURV-III survey:\n\nThe NTSB conducted computer studies, testing and analysis to determine the forces necessary to collapse the hatch covers and concluded that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" sank suddenly from flooding of the cargo hold \"due to the collapse of one or more of the hatch covers under the weight of giant boarding seas\" instead of flooding gradually due to ineffective hatch closures. The NTSB dissenting opinion held that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" sank suddenly and unexpectedly from shoaling.\n\nThe LCA believed that instead of hatch cover leakage, the more probable cause of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s loss was shoaling or grounding in the Six Fathom Shoal northwest of Caribou Island when the vessel \"unknowingly raked a reef\" during the time the Whitefish Point light and radio beacon were not available as navigation aids. This theory was supported by a 1976 Canadian hydrographic survey, which disclosed that an unknown shoal ran a mile further east of Six Fathom Shoal than shown on the Canadian charts. Officers from \"Arthur M. Anderson\" observed that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" sailed through this exact area. Conjecture by proponents of the Six Fathom Shoal theory concluded that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s downed fence rail reported by McSorley could occur only if the ship \"hogged\" during shoaling, with the bow and stern bent downward and the midsection raised by the shoal, pulling the railing tight until the cables dislodged or tore under the strain. Divers searched the Six Fathom Shoal after the wreck occurred and found no evidence of \"a recent collision or grounding anywhere.\" Maritime authors Bishop and Stonehouse wrote that the shoaling theory was later challenged on the basis of the higher quality of detail in Shannon's 1994 photography that \"explicitly show[s] the devastation of the \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"\". Shannon's photography of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s overturned stern showed \"no evidence on the bottom of the stern, the propeller or the rudder of the ship that would indicate the ship struck a shoal.\"\n\nMaritime author Stonehouse reasoned that \"unlike the Lake Carriers, the Coast Guard had no vested interest in the outcome of their investigation.\" Author Bishop reported that Captain Paquette of \"Wilfred Sykes\" argued that through their support for the shoaling explanation, the LCA represented the shipping company's interests by advocating a theory that held LCA member companies, the American Bureau of Shipping, and the U.S. Coast Guard Service blameless.\n\nPaul Hainault, a retired professor of mechanical engineering from Michigan Technological University, promoted a theory that began as a student class project. His hypothesis held that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" grounded at 9:30 a.m. on November 10 on Superior Shoal. This shoal, charted in 1929, is an underwater mountain in the middle of Lake Superior about north of Copper Harbor, Michigan. It has sharp peaks that rise nearly to the lake surface with water depths ranging from , making it a menace to navigation. Discovery of the shoal resulted in a change in recommended shipping routes. A seiche, or standing wave, that occurred during the low-pressure system over Lake Superior on November 10, 1975, caused the lake to rise over the Soo Locks's gates to flood Portage Avenue in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, with of water. Hainault's theory held that this seiche contributed to \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" shoaling of her hull on Superior Shoal, causing the hull to be punctured mid-body. The hypothesis contended that the wave action continued to damage the hull, until the middle third dropped out like a box, leaving the ship held together by the center deck. The stern section acted as an anchor and caused \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" to come to a full stop, causing everything to go forward. The ship broke apart on the surface within seconds. Compressed air pressure blew a hole in the starboard bow, which sank 18 degrees off course. The rear kept going forward with the engine still running, rolled to port and landed bottom up.\n\nAnother published theory contends that an already weakened structure, and modification of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s winter load line (which allows heavier loading and travel lower in the water), made it possible for large waves to cause a stress fracture in the hull. This is based on the \"regular\" huge waves of the storm and does not necessarily involve rogue waves.\n\nThe USCG and NTSB investigated whether \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" broke apart due to structural failure of the hull and because the 1976 CURV III survey found \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s sections were from each other, the USCG's formal casualty report of July 1977 concluded that she had separated upon hitting the lake floor. The NTSB came to the same conclusion as USCG because:\n\nOther authors have concluded that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" most likely broke in two on the surface before sinking due to the intense waves, like the ore carriers and . After maritime historian Frederick Stonehouse moderated the panel reviewing the video footage from the 1989 ROV survey of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\", he concluded that the extent of taconite coverage over the wreck site showed that the stern had floated on the surface for a short time and spilled taconite into the forward section; thus the two sections of the wreck did not sink at the same time. The 1994 Shannon team found that the stern and the bow were apart, leading Shannon to conclude that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" broke up on the surface. He said:\n\nThe stress fracture theory was supported by the testimony of former crewmen. Former Second Mate Richard Orgel, who served on \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" in 1972 and 1973, testified that \"the ship had a tendency to bend and spring during storms 'like a diving board after somebody has jumped off. Orgel was quoted as saying that the loss of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" was caused by hull failure, \"pure and simple. I detected undue stress in the side tunnels by examining the white enamel paint, which will crack and splinter when submitted to severe stress.\" George H. \"Red\" Burgner, \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s steward for ten seasons and winter ship-keeper for seven years, testified in a deposition that a \"loose keel\" contributed to the vessel's loss. Burgner further testified that \"the keel and sister kelsons were only 'tack welded'\" and that he had personally observed that many of the welds were broken. Burgner was not asked to testify before the Marine Board of Inquiry.\n\nWhen Bethlehem Steel Corporation permanently laid up \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s sister ship, SS \"Arthur B. Homer\", just five years after going to considerable expense to lengthen her, questions were raised as to whether both ships had the same structural problems. The two vessels were built in the same shipyard using welded joints instead of the riveted joints used in older ore freighters. Riveted joints allow a ship to flex and work in heavy seas, while welded joints are more likely to break. Reports indicate that repairs to \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s hull were delayed in 1975 due to plans to lengthen the ship during the upcoming winter layup. \"Arthur B. Homer\" was lengthened to and placed back in service by December 1975, not long after \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" foundered. In 1978, without explanation, Bethlehem Steel Corporation denied permission for the chairman of the NTSB to travel on \"Arthur B. Homer\". \"Arthur B. Homer\" was permanently laid up in 1980 and broken for scrap in 1987.\n\nRetired GLEW naval architect Raymond Ramsay, one of the members of the design team that worked on the hull of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\", reviewed her increased load lines, maintenance history, along with the history of long ship hull failure and concluded that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" was not seaworthy on November 10, 1975. He stated that planning \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" to be compatible with the constraints of the St. Lawrence Seaway had placed her hull design in a \".\" \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s long-ship design was developed without the benefit of research, development, test, and evaluation principles while computerized analytical technology was not available at the time she was built. Ramsay noted that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s hull was built with an all-welded (instead of riveted) modular fabrication method, which was used for the first time in the GLEW shipyard. Ramsay concluded that increasing the hull length to resulted in a L/D slenderness ratio (the ratio of the length of the ship to the depth of her structure) that caused excessive multi-axial bending and springing of the hull, and that the hull should have been structurally reinforced to cope with her increased length.\n\nThe USCG cited topside damage as a reasonable alternative reason for \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" sinking and surmised that damage to the fence rail and vents was possibly caused by a heavy floating object such as a log. Historian and mariner Mark Thompson believes that something broke loose from \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s deck. He theorized that the loss of the vents resulted in flooding of two ballast tanks or a ballast tank and a walking tunnel that caused the ship to list. Thompson further conjectured that damage more extensive than Captain McSorley could detect in the pilothouse let water flood the cargo hold. He concluded that the topside damage \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" experienced at 3:30 p.m. on November 10, compounded by the heavy seas, was the most obvious explanation for why she sank.\n\nThe USCG, NTSB, and proponents of alternative theories have all named multiple possible contributing factors to the foundering of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\".\n\nThe NWS long range forecast on November 9, 1975, predicted that a storm would pass just south of Lake Superior and over the Keweenaw Peninsula, extending into the Lake from Michigan's Upper Peninsula. Captain Paquette of \"Wilfred Sykes\" had been following and charting the low pressure system over Oklahoma since November 8 and concluded that a major storm would track across eastern Lake Superior. He therefore chose a route that gave \"Wilfred Sykes\" the most protection and took refuge in Thunder Bay, Ontario, during the worst of the storm. Based on the NWS forecast, \"Arthur M. Anderson\" and \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" instead started their trip across Lake Superior following the regular Lake Carriers Association route, which placed them in the path of the storm. The NTSB investigation concluded that the NWS failed to accurately predict wave heights on November 10. After running computer models in 2005 using actual meteorological data from November 10, 1975, Hultquist of the NWS said of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s position in the storm, \"It ended in precisely the wrong place at the absolute worst time.\"\n\nAfter reviewing testimony that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" had passed near shoals north of Caribou Island, the USCG Marine Board examined the relevant navigational charts. They found that the Canadian 1973 navigational chart for the Six Fathom Shoal area was based on Canadian surveys from 1916 and 1919 and that the 1973 U.S. Lake Survey Chart No. 9 included the notation, \"Canadian Areas. For data concerning Canadian areas, Canadian authorities have been consulted.\" Thereafter, at the request of the Marine Board and the Commander of the USCG Ninth District, the Canadian Hydrographic Service conducted a survey of the area surrounding Michipicoten Island and Caribou Island in 1976. The survey revealed that the shoal ran about further east than shown on Canadian charts. The NTSB investigation concluded that, at the time of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s foundering, Lake Survey Chart No. 9 was not detailed enough to indicate Six Fathom Shoal as a hazard to navigation.\n\nMark Thompson, a merchant seaman and author of numerous books on Great Lakes shipping, stated that if her cargo holds had had watertight subdivisions, \"the \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" could have made it into Whitefish Bay.\" Frederick Stonehouse also held that the lack of watertight bulkheads caused \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" to sink. He said:\n\nStonehouse called on ship designers and builders to design lake carriers more like ships rather than \"motorized super-barges\" making the following comparison:\n\nAfter \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" foundered, Great Lakes shipping companies were accused of valuing cargo payloads more than human life, since the vessel's cargo hold of had been divided by two non-watertight traverse \"screen\" bulkheads. The NTSB \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" investigation concluded that Great Lakes freighters should be constructed with watertight bulkheads in their cargo holds.\n\nThe USCG had proposed rules for watertight bulkheads in Great Lakes vessels as early as the sinking of \"Daniel J. Morrell\" in 1966 and did so again after the sinking of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\", arguing that this would allow ships to make it to refuge or at least allow crew members to abandon ship in an orderly fashion. The LCA represented the Great Lakes fleet owners and was able to forestall watertight subdivision regulations by arguing that this would cause economic hardship for vessel operators. A few vessel operators have built Great Lakes ships with watertight subdivisions in the cargo holds since 1975, but most vessels operating on the lakes cannot prevent flooding of the entire cargo hold area.\n\nA fathometer was not required under USCG regulations, and \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" lacked one, even though fathometers were available at the time of her sinking. Instead, a hand line was the only method \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" had to take depth soundings. The hand line consisted of a piece of line knotted at measured intervals with a lead weight on the end. The line was thrown over the bow of the ship and the count of the knots measured the water depth. The NTSB investigation concluded that a fathometer would have provided \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" additional navigational data and made her less dependent on \"Arthur M. Anderson\" for navigational assistance.\n\n\"Edmund Fitzgerald\" had no system to monitor the presence or amount of water in her cargo hold, even though there was always some present. The intensity of the November 10 storm would have made it difficult, if not impossible, to access the hatches from the spar deck (deck over the cargo holds). The USCG Marine Board found that flooding of the hold could not have been assessed until the water reached the top of the taconite cargo. The NTSB investigation concluded that it would have been impossible to pump water from the hold when it was filled with bulk cargo. The Marine Board noted that because \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" lacked a draft-reading system, the crew had no way to determine whether the vessel had lost freeboard (the level of a ship's deck above the water).\n\nThe USCG increased \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s load line in 1969, 1971, and 1973 to allow less minimum freeboard than \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s original design allowed in 1958. This meant that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s deck was only above the water when she faced waves during the November 10 storm. Captain Paquette of \"Wilfred Sykes\" noted that this change allowed loading to 4,000 tons more than what \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" was designed to carry.\n\nConcerns regarding \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s keel-welding problem surfaced during the time the USCG started increasing her load line. This increase and the resultant reduction in freeboard decreased the vessel's critical reserve buoyancy. Prior to the load-line increases she was said to be a \"good riding ship\" but afterwards \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" became a sluggish ship with slower response and recovery times. Captain McSorley said he did not like the action of a ship he described as a \"wiggling thing\" that scared him. \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s bow hooked to one side or the other in heavy seas without recovering and made a groaning sound not heard on other ships.\n\nNTSB investigators noted that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s prior groundings could have caused undetected damage that led to major structural failure during the storm, since Great Lakes vessels were normally drydocked for inspection only once every five years. It was also alleged that when compared to \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s previous captain, McSorley did not keep up with routine maintenance and did not confront the mates about getting the requisite work done. After August B. Herbel, Jr., president of the American Society for Testing and Materials, examined photographs of the welds on \"Edmund Fitzgerald\", he stated, \"the hull was just being held together with patching plates.\" Other questions were raised as to why the USCG did not discover and take corrective action in its pre-November 1975 inspection of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" given that her hatch coamings, gaskets, and clamps were poorly maintained.\n\nOn the fateful evening of November 10, 1975, McSorley reported he had never seen bigger seas in his life. Paquette, master of \"Wilfred Sykes,\" out in the same storm, said, \"I'll tell anyone that it was a \"monster\" sea washing solid water over the deck of every vessel out there.\" The USCG did not broadcast that all ships should seek safe anchorage until after 3:35 p.m. on November 10, many hours after the weather was upgraded from a gale to a storm.\n\nMcSorley was known as a \"heavy weather captain\" who beat hell' out of the \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" and 'very seldom ever hauled up for weather. Paquette held the opinion that negligence caused \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" to founder. He said, \"in my opinion, all the subsequent events arose because (McSorley) kept pushing that ship and didn't have enough training in weather forecasting to use common sense and pick a route out of the worst of the wind and seas.\" Paquette's vessel was the first to reach a discharge port after the November 10 storm; she was met by company attorneys who came aboard \"Sykes.\" He told them that \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s foundering was caused by negligence. Paquette was never asked to testify during the USCG or NTSB investigations.\n\nThe NTSB investigation noted that Great Lakes cargo vessels could normally avoid severe storms, and called for the establishment of a limiting sea state applicable to Great Lakes bulk cargo vessels. This would restrict the operation of vessels in sea states above the limiting value. One concern was that shipping companies pressured the captains to deliver cargo as quickly and cheaply as possible regardless of bad weather. At the time of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s foundering, there was no evidence that any governmental regulatory agency tried to control vessel movement in foul weather despite the historical record that hundreds of Great Lakes vessels had been wrecked in storms. The USCG took the position that only the captain could decide when it was safe to sail.\n\nThe USCG Marine Board issued the following conclusion:\n\nMark Thompson countered that \"the Coast Guard laid bare [its] own complacency\" by blaming the sinking of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" on industry-wide complacency since it had inspected \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" just two weeks before she sank. The loss of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" also exposed the USCG's lack of rescue capability on Lake Superior. Thompson said that ongoing budget cuts had limited the USCG's ability to perform its historical functions. He further noted that USCG rescue vessels were unlikely to reach the scene of an incident on Lake Superior or Lake Huron within 6 to 12 hours of its occurrence.\n\nUnder maritime law, ships fall under the jurisdiction of the admiralty courts of their flag country. As \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" was sailing under the U.S. flag, even though she sank in foreign (Canadian) waters, she was subject to U.S. admiralty law. With a value of $24 million, \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s financial loss was the greatest in Great Lakes sailing history. In addition to the crew, of taconite sank along with the vessel. Two widows of crewmen filed a $1.5 million lawsuit against \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s owners, Northwestern Mutual, and its operators, Oglebay Norton Corporation, one week after she sank. An additional $2.1 million lawsuit was later filed. Oglebay Norton subsequently filed a petition in the U.S. District Court seeking to \"limit their liability to $817,920 in connection with other suits filed by families of crew members.\" The company paid compensation to surviving families about 12 months in advance of official findings of the probable cause and on condition of imposed confidentiality agreements. Robert Hemming, a reporter and newspaper editor, reasoned in his book about \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" that the USCG's conclusions \"were benign in placing blame on [n]either the company or the captain ... [and] saved the Oglebay Norton from very expensive lawsuits by the families of the lost crew.\"\n\nThe USCG investigation of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s sinking resulted in 15 recommendations regarding load lines, weathertight integrity, search and rescue capability, lifesaving equipment, crew training, loading manuals, and providing information to masters of Great Lakes vessels. NTSB's investigation resulted in 19 recommendations for the USCG, four recommendations for the American Bureau of Shipping, and two recommendations for NOAA. Of the official recommendations, the following actions and USCG regulations were put in place:\n\nKarl Bohnak, an Upper Peninsula meteorologist, covered the sinking and storm in a book on local weather history. In this book, Joe Warren, a deckhand on \"Arthur M. Anderson\" during the November 10, 1975, storm, said that the storm changed the way things were done. He stated, \"After that, trust me, when a gale came up we dropped the hook [anchor]. We dropped the hook because they found out the big ones could sink.\" Mark Thompson wrote, \"Since the loss of the \"Fitz,\" some captains may be more prone to go to anchor, rather than venturing out in a severe storm, but there are still too many who like to portray themselves as 'heavy weather sailors.'\"\n\nThe day after the wreck, Mariners' Church in Detroit rang its bell 29 times; once for each life lost. The church continued to hold an annual memorial, reading the names of the crewmen and ringing the church bell, until 2006 when the church broadened its memorial ceremony to commemorate all lives lost on the Great Lakes.\n\nThe ship's bell was recovered from the wreck on July 4, 1995. A replica engraved with the names of the 29 sailors who lost their lives replaced the original on the wreck. A legal document signed by 46 relatives of the deceased, officials of the Mariners' Church of Detroit and the Great Lakes Shipwreck Historic Society (GLSHS) \"donated the custodian and conservatorship\" of the bell to the GLSHS \"to be incorporated in a permanent memorial at Whitefish Point, Michigan, to honor the memory of the 29 men of the SS \"Edmund Fitzgerald.\"\" The terms of the legal agreement made the GLSHS responsible for maintaining the bell, and forbade it from selling or moving the bell or using it for commercial purposes. It provided for transferring the bell to the Mariners' Church of Detroit if the terms were violated.\n\nAn uproar occurred in 1995 when a maintenance worker in St. Ignace, Michigan, refurbished the bell by stripping the protective coating applied by Michigan State University experts. The controversy continued when the Great Lakes Shipwreck Museum tried to use the bell as a touring exhibit in 1996. Relatives of the crew halted this move, objecting that the bell was being used as a \"traveling trophy.\" The bell is now on display in the Great Lakes Shipwreck Museum in Whitefish Point near Paradise, Michigan.\n\nAn anchor from \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" lost on an earlier trip was recovered from the Detroit River and is on display at the Dossin Great Lakes Museum in Detroit, Michigan. The Dossin Great Lakes Museum also hosts a Lost Mariners Remembrance event each year on the evening of November 10. Artifacts on display in the Steamship Valley Camp museum in Sault Ste. Marie, include two lifeboats, photos, a movie of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" and commemorative models and paintings. Every November 10, the Split Rock Lighthouse in Silver Bay, Minnesota emits a light in honor of \"Edmund Fitzgerald.\"\n\nOn August 8, 2007, along a remote shore of Lake Superior on the Keweenaw Peninsula, a Michigan family discovered a lone life-saving ring that appeared to have come from \"Edmund Fitzgerald\". It bore markings different from those of rings found at the wreck site, and was thought to be a hoax. Later it was determined that the life ring was not from \"Edmund Fitzgerald\", but had been lost by the owner, whose father had made it as a personal memorial.\n\nThe Royal Canadian Mint commemorated \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" in 2015 with a colored silver collector coin, with a face value of $20.\n\nIn 1976, Ontario singer-songwriter Gordon Lightfoot wrote, composed, and recorded the song \"The Wreck of the \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"\" for his album \"Summertime Dream.\" On NPR's \"Saturday Morning Edition\" on February 14, 2015, Gordon Lightfoot said he was inspired to write the song when he saw the name misspelled \"Edmond\" in \"Newsweek\" magazine two weeks after the sinking; Lightfoot said he felt that it dishonored the memory of the 29 who died. Lightfoot's popular ballad made the sinking of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" one of the better-known disasters in the history of Great Lakes shipping. The original lyrics of the song show a degree of artistic license compared to the events of the actual sinking: it states the destination as Cleveland instead of Detroit. Also, in light of new evidence about what happened, Lightfoot has modified one line for live performances, the original stanza being: When suppertime came the old cook came on deck,<br>Saying ‘Fellas, it’s too rough to feed ya.’<br>At 7 p.m. a main hatchway caved in, <br>He said, ‘Fellas, it's been good to know ya.' Lightfoot changed the third line to \"At 7 p.m. it grew dark, it was then,\" \n\nThe song has been covered by many performers. The Toronto rock band Rheostatics recorded it for their second album, \"Melville,\" and their live album \"Double Live.\" The Dandy Warhols also covered the song in their \"The Black Album\" in 2004.\n\nIn 1986, writer Steven Dietz and songwriter/lyricist Eric Peltoniemi wrote the musical \"Ten November\" in memory of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s sinking. In 2005, the play was re-edited into a concert version called \"The Gales of November\", which opened on the 30th anniversary of the sinking at the Fitzgerald Theater in St. Paul, Minnesota. Shelley Russell, a professor of theater at Northern Michigan University, wrote a play called \"Holdin' Our Own\"; the play was performed at the university in 2000.\n\nA piano concerto titled \"The\" \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" was composed by American composer Geoffrey Peterson in 2002; it premiered by the Sault Symphony Orchestra in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, in November 2005 as another 30th anniversary commemoration.\n\nThe fame of \"Edmund Fitzgerald\"s image and historical narrative have made it public domain and subject to commercialization. A \"cottage industry\" has evolved across the Great Lakes region from Two Harbors, Minnesota, to Whitefish Point, the incident's \"ground zero\". Memorabilia on sale include Christmas ornaments, T-shirts, coffee mugs, \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" Porter, videos, and other items commemorating the vessel and its loss.\n\n"}
{"id": "10276913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10276913", "title": "Salatyn Asgarova", "text": "Salatyn Asgarova\n\nSalatyn Aziz qizi Asgarova (also spelled Salatyn Askerova; ; ; 16 December 1961 – 9 January 1991) is a National Hero of Azerbaijan. She was one of the Azerbaijani journalists killed in the Nagorno-Karabakh War.\n\nSalatyoln Aziz qizi Asgarova was born on 16 December 1961 in Baku, Azerbaijan. After finishing secondary school, she entered Azerbaijan Oil and Chemistry Institute. However, her enormous interest in literature brought her into journalism. She started her journalistic career at “Baku” newspaper, and then began working as a special correspondent for \"Molodezh Azerbaijana\" (\"The Youth of Azerbaijan\"). Prior to the beginning of the Nagorno-Karabakh War, Salatyn was writing about contemporary issues of society. However, after the war broke out, Salatyn frequently visited the front line and provided press coverage from hot spots. Her family and colleagues tried to persuade her not to go to the front line jeopardizing her life. In such cases she would usually say: “If nobody goes, then who will?”\n\nOn 9 January 1991, the 29-year-old journalist was on her way to Shusha to prepare a story for the newspaper. At the 6th kilometer of the Lachin - Shusha highway, next to the village of Böyük Galadərəsi, the vehicle in which she was travelling was shot upon by Armenian militants firing from at almost point-blank range with machine guns and sniper rifles. The investigators counted 113 bullet holes in the vehicle. As a result of the attack, Salatyn Asgarova died instantly. Three military officers (Lieutenant-Colonel O. Larionov, Major I. Ivanov and Sergeant I. Goyek) of the Soviet Army accompanying her were killed as well. The attackers – Arno Mkrtchian, Hrachik Petrossian, A. Mongasagian and Garik Arustamian – were identified and arrested. They were later released and handed over to the Armenian authorities.\n\nA Baku street and a vessel in the Caspian Sea carry her name.\n\nA monument in her memory was erected at Tafakkur University in Baku.\n\nShe was conferred the National Hero title posthumously. Salatyn was buried in the Martyrs' Lane in Baku.\n"}
{"id": "49861631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49861631", "title": "Seguin de Badefol", "text": "Seguin de Badefol\n\nSeguin de Badefol was a Medieval leader of a large bandit army or Routier With 2000 troops he was the head of the largest group of Tard-Venus.\n\nHe was born in 1330 in the castle of Badefols, the son of Seguin Gontaut de Badefol and Margaret de Bérail, daughter of Arnaud de Cervole he was given the nickname \"Chopin Badefol\".\n\nHe fought at the Battle of Poitiers in 1356 and in 1360 after the Treaty of Brétigny, and without employ, he led a band of brigands, with Bertucat d'Albret in 1361 into the Languedoc, Roussillon, Toulouse and Rouergue districts. In 1362, with Bertucat took Montbrun, plundered Saint-Flour then participated with Meschin, at the Battle of Brignais against Jacques de Bourbon Count of La Marche. In 1363, refusing to go to Italy with most of the other Routiers, he returned to plunder the Languedoc area with Petit Meschin, Louis Rabaud, Arnaud du Solis and Espiote took Brioude on 13 September.\n\nIn 1364, the band devastated the region between Lyon and Mâcon. When Seguin Brioude evacuated Clermont under an agreement of 21 May 1364, he did not immediately withdraw in Gascony. Instead he stayed at and became master of the Saone and Rhone region and captured sixty castles including that of Anse in November 1364. After eight months of occupation, in July 1365 Pope Urban V, gave John II of France a sum of 40,000 florins to pay his company out of the kingdom. To enforce this the pope held his father and brothers as hostages in Avignon. At the end of arguments the Pope paid the Tard-Venus to leave and then excommunicated Badefol around August 1365.\n\nThe troops of Seguin Badefol also made raids in Puy, Chaise-Dieu in Clermont, Montferrand, Chilhac, Riom, Nonnette, Issoire, Saint-Bonnet Arsis and ravaging Auvergne. Finally, after holding Brioude for more than a year, Seguin Badefol evacuates for a fee and retires with his treasures to Gascony, his native country.\n\nHere Charles II of Navarre employed him but while in his service he was poisoned with figs in Pamplona in December 1365. The historian Germain Butaud, believes he died of poison in Falces in February 1366 after eating quince and pears.\n"}
{"id": "16843264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16843264", "title": "Sir Henry Price, 1st Baronet", "text": "Sir Henry Price, 1st Baronet\n\nSir Henry Philip Price, 1st Baronet (17 February 1877 – 12 December 1963) was a British businessman and philanthropist.\n\nPrice was born in Leeds to Joseph Price and Elizabeth Helen Price. In 1919, he opened a tailor's shop in Silsden, then in the West Riding of Yorkshire (now in the City of Bradford, West Yorkshire).\n\nHe prospered by introducing the suit to those who previously could not afford one. A factory in Leeds produced the suits, which were ordered by customers from the company's branches. The company was known as the Fifty Shilling Tailors, £2.50 in current terms but not current monetary worth; for example 50 shillings in 1940 had a purchasing value of approximately £70.00 in today's financial market (value as of 2005).\n\nIn 1953, the company was bought by United Drapery Stores, who used one of the Price group's trade names, John Collier.\n\nSir Henry Price used part of his fortune in the promotion of botany and has a garden named after him at Kew Gardens. In 1938, he bought Wakehurst Place, an Elizabethan mansion built in 1590 and set in 500 acres, which he left to the nation in 1963 and the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew took a lease on it from the National Trust in 1965. It is now the home of the Millennium Seed Bank as well as a number of National Collections of trees (birch, beech and Skimmia family of shrubs).\n\nHe was also a generous benefactor of Chatham House (the Royal Institute of International Affairs) at 10 St James's Square and provided the funds in 1943 for The Institute to acquire the adjoining freehold of 9 St. James's Square (formerly the Portland Club) to expand its premises. Chatham House's Henry Price Room was named in gratitude for his support over the years.\n\nIn 1953, he was created a Baronet of Ardingly, in the Baronetage of the United Kingdom.\n\nHe married Annie Craggs in 1889. They adopted two children. The baronetcy became extinct upon his death.\n"}
{"id": "46926424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46926424", "title": "Speculative evolution", "text": "Speculative evolution\n\nSpeculative evolution, also called speculative biology and speculative zoology, is a genre of speculative fiction and an artistic movement, focused on hypothetical scenarios in the evolution of life. Works incorporating speculative evolution may have entirely conceptual species that evolve on a planet other than Earth, or they may be an alternate history focused on an alternate evolution of terrestrial life. With a strong connection to and basis in science, particularly biology, speculative evolution is often considered hard science fiction. Speculative biology and creature concepts are also a prevalent subject in concept art.\n\nWith its attention to evolutionary biology, speculative evolution shares with many science fiction subgenres a focus on scientific plausibility. Although the vertebrate paleontologist Darren Naish concedes that speculative evolution is full of \"possibilities, crazy ideas, speculations, and things you wish you knew but never will\", he suggests that \"some of our speculations about animal evolution involve possibly useful and informative guesses and hypotheses... and some of these speculations are designed with real-world adaptations, processes and diversity in mind.\"\n\nSpeculative evolution, with its relation to hard science fiction, builds on our knowledge of the real world and uses evolutionary principles to possibly develop a genuine hypothesis about the future. In some cases, speculative evolution artists have conceived of the existence of a creature before it was discovered by paleontologists. An imaginary filter-feeding 'Ceticaris', conceived by artist John Meszaros, was published in \"All Yesterdays\" before the discovery of the first filter-feeding anomalocarid, \"Tamisiocaris\" — which was subsequently included in the clade Cetiocaridae. In addition, some of Dougal Dixon's speculative dinosaurs have predicted the paleobiologies of actual dinosaurs.\n\nThe art books \"All Yesterdays\" (2012) and \"All Your Yesterdays\" (2013) by John Conway, C.M. Kosemen and Darren Naish presented hypothetical forms of existing prehistoric creatures, applying speculative principles to paleoart in the style of Dougal Dixon.\n\nSpeculative evolution is often connected to the scientific fields of astrobiology and xenobiology. Speculative biology writings focusing on extraterrestrial life, like the blog Furahan Biology, use realistic scientific principles to describe the biomechanics of hypothetical alien life. However, speculative biology is not the same as xenobiology—it is a larger, distinct concept, which includes the alternate evolution of life in any scenario, terrestrial or extraterrestrial.\n\nIn 1930, Olaf Stapledon published a \"future history\", \"Last and First Men: A Story of the Near and Far Future\", describing the history of humanity from the present onwards, across two billion years and eighteen human species, of which our own is the first. The book anticipates the science of genetic engineering, and is an early instance of the fictional group mind idea.\n\nThe German zoologist Gerolf Steiner described a fictitious order of mammals, Rhinogradentia, in his 1957 book \"Bau und Leben der Rhinogradentia\". Translated into English as \"The Snouters: The Form and Life of the Rhinogrades\", it described the evolution, biology, and behavior of the fictional rhinogrades.\n\nIn 1976, the Italian author and illustrator Leo Lionni published \"Parallel Botany\", a \"field guide to imaginary plants\", presented with academic-style mentions of genuine people and places.\n\nThe founder of the modern speculative evolution movement is the geologist Dougal Dixon, who imagined \"zoologies of the future\" in \"(1981)\", \"(1988)\", and \"(1990)\". According to Dixon, whose works have heavily influenced later speculative evolution works, his original inspiration was \"The Time Machine\" (1895) by H. G. Wells. Wells envisioned giant crab-like creatures inhabiting a dying future Earth.\n\nKurt Vonnegut's 1985 novel \"Galápagos\" imagines the evolution of a small surviving group of humans into a sealion-like species. \"The World of Kong: A Natural History of Skull Island\" (2005) explored the world of \"King Kong\" (2005) from a biological perspective, envisioning Skull Island as a surviving fragment of ancient Gondwana. Prehistoric creatures on a declining, eroding island evolved into \"a menagerie of nightmares\", a notable example of horror-themed speculative biology. The designers of the rebooted \"King Kong\" universe were inspired by Dougal Dixon's works.\n\nOther speculative evolution books include Robert Forward's 1980 \"Dragon's Egg\"; and Wayne Barlowe's 1990 graphic novel \"Expedition\". Expedition was written as a report of a visit to an alien biosphere in the 24th century. The book was heavily illustrated and attempted to describe a completely alien ecosystem as if it was real. Future evolution-focused works include Peter Ward's 2001 \"Future Evolution\"; Stephen Baxter's 2002 \"Evolution\"; Dougal Dixon's 1990 \"Man After Man: An Anthropology of the Future\", and C. M. Kosemen's 2008 \"All Tomorrows\".\n\nThe \"Cryptozoologicon Volume I\" (2013) was a tongue-in-cheek combination of speculative biology and cryptozoology, using scientific scrutiny to analyze fictional creatures. It explored new directions on how to depict ancient animals with a particularly speculative nature.\n\nMock documentaries (also called mockumentaries, or docufiction) include the 1997 \" Natural History of an Alien\"; the 2002 \"The Future Is Wild\"; the 2004 \"The Last Dragon\"; and the 2005 \"Alien Planet\", based on the graphic novel \"Expedition\". The mock documentary style in \"Alien Planet\" was likely inspired by the Discovery Channel’s previous success with real documentaries such as \"Walking With Dinosaurs\". A British-American production \"Extraterrestrial\" also attempted to describe speculative alien life in a scientific manner.\n\nSpeculative evolution ideas are often used in science fiction works that do not strictly belong to the genre. The creatures in the 2005 film \"King Kong\" were fictitious descendants of real animals, with Skull Island being inhabited by dinosaurs and other prehistoric fauna. Inspired by Dougal Dixon's works, the designers imagined what 65 million years or more of isolated evolution might have done to dinosaurs.\n\nThe Dutch graphic artist M. C. Escher invented a creature that was capable of rolling itself forward, which he named \"Pedalternorotandomovens centroculatus articulosus\". He illustrated this creature in his 1951 lithograph \"Wentelteefje\" (also known by the English title \"Curl-up\"). He says this creature came into existence because of the absence in nature of wheel shaped, living creatures with the ability to roll themselves forward.\n\nMatt Reeves's 2008 film \"Cloverfield\" featured a giant semiaquatic monster, Clover, its ocean-going traits inspired by biological plausibility.\n\nJames Cameron's 2009 film \"Avatar\" constructed a fictional biosphere full of original, speculative alien species; a team of experts ensured that the lifeforms were scientifically plausible. The creatures of the movie took inspiration from Earth species as diverse as pterosaurs, microraptors, great white sharks, and panthers, and combined their traits to create an alien world.\n\nSpeculative biology and the future evolution of the human species are significant in bio art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26574134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26574134", "title": "Sten Philipson", "text": "Sten Philipson\n\nSten Philipson is a Swedish ethicist and Professor of Ethics and Value Research at Strömstad Academy. Born 1946. Cand. theol. 1969, Uppsala University. Master's degree from Harvard University 1981. Doctorate from Uppsala University 1982. His thesis contained among other topics an analysis of the philosophy of Alfred North Whitehead and its application to science. In 1983 Sten was appointed assistant professor of faith and ideology at Uppsala University. Sten Philipson has written thirteen books on various subjects and published a number of articles relating to ethics and value research, particular concerning issues within healthcare. His last book - Kan en värdegrund ge framgång? - was published in December 2011.\n\nFrom 1986-1994 Sten Philipson was a member of a committee for Long term Motivated Research (SALFO) within The Swedish Council for Planning and Coordination of Research. There he was primarily responsible for issues relating to ethics. During 1997-2009 he was also a member of the Council for Ethics within The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare. 1986-2009 he served as executive member on The Foundation for Work Ethics in Sweden. As an ethicist Sten Philipson was for many years a member of the board of The Swedish Organization for Sexual Education (RFSU) and head of its federation committee. Currently he is teaching and doing research work at Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm. He is also the chairperson of the board of R-företagen, an organization promoting ethics in work life and society.\n\n"}
{"id": "31586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31586", "title": "Ty Cobb", "text": "Ty Cobb\n\nTyrus Raymond Cobb (December 18, 1886 – July 17, 1961), nicknamed The Georgia Peach, was an American Major League Baseball (MLB) outfielder. He was born in rural Narrows, Georgia. Cobb spent 22 seasons with the Detroit Tigers, the last six as the team's player-manager, and finished his career with the Philadelphia Athletics. In 1936 Cobb received the most votes of any player on the inaugural Baseball Hall of Fame ballot, receiving 222 out of a possible 226 votes (98.2%); no other player received a higher percentage of votes until Tom Seaver in 1992. In 1999, editors at the \"Sporting News\" ranked Ty Cobb third on their list of \"Baseball's 100 Greatest Players\".\n\nCobb is widely credited with setting 90 MLB records during his career. His combined total of 4,065 runs scored and runs batted in (after adjusting for home runs) is still the highest ever produced by any major league player. He still holds several records as of the end of the 2018 season, including the highest career batting average (.366 or .367, depending on source) and most career batting titles with 11 (or 12, depending on source). He retained many other records for almost a half century or more, including most career hits until 1985 (4,189 or 4,191, depending on source), most career runs (2,245 or 2,246 depending on source) until 2001, most career games played (3,035) and at bats (11,429 or 11,434 depending on source) until 1974, and the modern record for most career stolen bases (892) until 1977. He still holds the career record for stealing home (54 times) and for stealing second base, third base, and home in succession (5 times), and as the youngest player ever to compile 4,000 hits and score 2,000 runs. Cobb ranks fifth all-time in number of games played and committed 271 errors, the most by any American League (AL) outfielder.\n\nCobb's legacy, which includes a large college scholarship fund for Georgia residents financed by his early investments in Coca-Cola and General Motors, has been somewhat tarnished by allegations of racism and violence, largely stemming from a couple of largely-discredited biographies that were released following his death. Cobb's reputation as an extremely violent man was fanned by his first biographer, sportswriter Al Stump, whose stories about Cobb have been discredited as sensationalized, and in some part proven to be entirely fictional. Cobb, who was raised in a family of abolitionists, often spoke positively about the need for baseball's integration and was a well-known philanthropist who founded a hospital and educational foundation.\n\nCobb was born in 1886 in Narrows, Georgia, a small rural community of farmers that was unincorporated. He was the first of three children born to William Herschel Cobb (1863–1905) and Amanda Chitwood Cobb (1871–1936). Cobb's father was a state senator.\n\nWhen he was still an infant, his parents moved to nearby Royston, where he was raised. By most accounts, he became fascinated with baseball as a child, and decided he wanted to play professional ball one day; his father was vehemently opposed to this idea, but by his teen years, he was trying out for area teams. He played his first years in organized baseball for the Royston Rompers, the semi-pro Royston Reds, and the Augusta Tourists of the South Atlantic League who released him after only two days. He then tried out for the Anniston Steelers of the semipro Tennessee–Alabama League, with his father's stern admonition ringing in his ears: \"Don't come home a failure!\" After joining the Steelers for a monthly salary of $50, Cobb promoted himself by sending several postcards written about his talents under different aliases to Grantland Rice, the sports editor of the \"Atlanta Journal\". Eventually, Rice wrote a small note in the \"Journal\" that a \"young fellow named Cobb seems to be showing an unusual lot of talent\". After about three months, Cobb returned to the Tourists and finished the season hitting .237 in 35 games. In August 1905, the management of the Tourists sold Cobb to the American League's Detroit Tigers for US$750 (equivalent to approximately $ in today's funds).\n\nOn August 8, 1905, Cobb's mother fatally shot his father with a pistol that his father had purchased for her. Court records indicate that Mr. Cobb had suspected his wife of infidelity and was sneaking past his own bedroom window to catch her in the act. She saw the silhouette of what she presumed to be an intruder and, acting in self-defense, shot and killed her husband. Mrs. Cobb was charged with murder and then released on a $7,000 recognizance bond. She was acquitted on March 31, 1906. Cobb later attributed his ferocious play to his late father, saying, \"I did it for my father. He never got to see me play... but I knew he was watching me, and I never let him down.\"\n\nIn 1911, Cobb moved to Detroit's architecturally significant and now historically protected Woodbridge neighborhood, from which he would walk with his dogs to the ballpark prior to games. The Victorian duplex in which Cobb lived still stands.\n\nThree weeks after his mother killed his father, Cobb debuted in center field for the Detroit Tigers. On August 30, 1905, in his first major league at bat, he doubled off of Jack Chesbro of the New York Highlanders. Chesbro had won a record 41 games the previous season. Cobb was 18 years old at the time, the youngest player in the league by almost a year. Although he hit only .240 in 41 games, he signed a $1,500 contract to play for the Tigers in 1906.\n\nAlthough rookie hazing was customary, Cobb could not endure it in good humor and soon became alienated from his teammates. He later attributed his hostile temperament to this experience: \"These old-timers turned me into a snarling wildcat.\" Tigers manager Hughie Jennings later acknowledged that Cobb was targeted for abuse by veteran players, some of whom sought to force him off the team. \"I let this go for a while because I wanted to satisfy myself that Cobb has as much guts as I thought in the very beginning\", Jennings recalled. \"Well, he proved it to me, and I told the other players to let him alone. He is going to be a great baseball player and I won't allow him to be driven off this club.\"\n\nThe following year, 1906, Cobb became the Tigers' full-time center fielder and hit .316 in 98 games, setting a record for the highest batting average (minimum 310 plate appearances) for a 19-year-old (later bested by Mel Ott's .322 average in 124 games for the 1928 New York Giants). He never hit below that mark again. After being moved to right field, he led the Tigers to three consecutive American League pennants in 1907, 1908 & 1909. Detroit would lose each World Series (to the Cubs twice and then the Pirates), however, with Cobb's postseason numbers far below his career standard. Cobb did not get another opportunity to play on a pennant-winning team.\n\nIn 1907, Cobb reached first and then stole second, third and home. He accomplished the feat four more times during his career. He finished the 1907 season with a league-leading .350 batting average, 212 hits, 49 steals and 119 runs batted in (RBI). At age 20, he was the youngest player to win a batting championship and held this record until 1955, when fellow Detroit Tiger Al Kaline won the batting title twelve days younger than Cobb when he did it. Reflecting on his career in 1930, two years after retiring, he told Grantland Rice, \"The biggest thrill I ever got came in a game against the Athletics in 1907 [on September 30]... The Athletics had us beaten, with Rube Waddell pitching. They were two runs ahead in the 9th inning, when I happened to hit a home run that tied the score. This game went 17 innings to a tie, and a few days later, we clinched our first pennant. You can understand what it meant for a 20-year-old country boy to hit a home run off the great Rube, in a pennant-winning game with two outs in the ninth.\"\nDespite great success on the field, Cobb was no stranger to controversy off it. As described in Smithsonian Magazine, \"In 1907 during spring training in Augusta, Georgia, a black groundskeeper named Bungy Cummings, whom Cobb had known for years, attempted to shake Cobb's hand or pat him on the shoulder.\" The \"overly familiar greeting infuriated\" Cobb, who attacked Cummings. When Cummings' wife tried to defend him, Cobb allegedly choked her. The assault was only stopped when catcher Charles \"Boss\" Schmidt knocked Cobb out. However, aside from Schmidt's statement to the press, no other corroborating witnesses to the assault on Cummings ever came forward and Cummings himself never made a public comment about it. Author Charles Leerhsen speculates that the assault on Cummings and his wife never occurred and that Schmidt likely made it up completely. Cobb had spent the previous year defending himself on several occasions from assaults by Schmidt, with Schmidt often coming out of nowhere to blindside Cobb. On that day, several reporters did see Cummings, who appeared to be \"partially under the influence of liquor\", approach Cobb and shout \"Hello, Carrie!\" (the meaning of which is unknown) and go in for a hug. Cobb then pushed him away, which was the last interaction that anyone saw between Cobb and Cummings. Shortly thereafter, hearing a fight, several reporters came running and found Cobb and Schmidt wrestling on the ground. When the fight was broken up and Cobb had walked away, Schmidt remained behind and told the reporters that he saw Cobb assaulting Cummings and his wife and had intervened. Leerhsen speculates that this was just another one of Schmidt's assaults on Cobb and that once discovered, Schmidt made up a story that made him sound like he had assaulted Cobb for a noble purpose. In 1908, Cobb attacked a black laborer in Detroit who complained when Cobb stepped into freshly poured asphalt; Cobb was found guilty of battery but the sentence was suspended.\n\nIn September 1907, Cobb began a relationship with The Coca-Cola Company that lasted the remainder of his life. By the time he died, he held over 20,000 shares of stock and owned bottling plants in Santa Maria, California, Twin Falls, Idaho, and Bend, Oregon. He was also a celebrity spokesman for the product. In the offseason between 1907 and 1908, Cobb negotiated with Clemson Agricultural College of South Carolina, offering to coach baseball there \"for $250 a month, provided that he did not sign with Detroit that season\". This did not come to pass, however.\n\nThe following season, the Tigers finished ahead of the Chicago White Sox for the pennant. Cobb again won the batting title with a .324 average, but Detroit suffered another loss in the World Series. In August 1908, Cobb married Charlotte (\"Charlie\") Marion Lombard, the daughter of prominent Augustan Roswell Lombard. In the offseason, the couple lived on her father's Augusta estate, \"The Oaks\", until they moved into their own house on Williams Street in November 1913.\n\nThe Tigers won the AL pennant again in 1909. During that World Series, Cobb's last, he stole home in the second game, igniting a three-run rally, but that was the high point for him, finishing with a lowly .231, as the Tigers lost to Honus Wagner and the powerful Pirates in seven games. Although he performed poorly in the postseason, he won the Triple Crown by hitting .377 with 107 RBI and nine home runs, all inside the park, thus becoming the only player of the modern era to lead his league in home runs in a season without hitting a ball over the fence.\nIn the same season, Charles M. Conlon snapped the famous photograph of a grimacing Cobb sliding into third base amid a cloud of dirt, which visually captured the grit and ferocity of his playing style.\n\nGoing into the final days of the 1910 season, Cobb had a .004 lead on Nap Lajoie for the American League batting title. The prize for the winner of the title was a Chalmers automobile. Cobb sat out the final games to preserve his average. Lajoie hit safely eight times in a doubleheader, but six of those hits were bunt singles. Later it was rumored that the opposing manager had instructed his third baseman to play extra deep to allow Lajoie to win the batting race over the generally disliked Cobb. Although Cobb was credited with a higher batting average, it was later discovered that one game had been counted twice so that Cobb actually lost to Lajoie.\n\nAs a result of the incident, AL president Ban Johnson was forced to arbitrate the situation. He declared Cobb the rightful owner of the title, but car company president Hugh Chalmers chose to award one to both Cobb and Lajoie.\n\nCobb regarded baseball as \"something like a war\", future Tiger second baseman Charlie Gehringer said. \"Every time at bat for him was a crusade.\" Baseball historian John Thorn said in the book \"Legends of the Fall\", \"He is testament to how far you can get simply through will... Cobb was pursued by demons.\"\n\nCobb was having a tremendous year in 1911, which included a 40-game hitting streak. Still, \"Shoeless\" Joe Jackson led him by .009 points in the batting race late in the season. Near the end of the season, Cobb's Tigers had a long series against Jackson's Cleveland Naps. Fellow Southerners Cobb and Jackson were personally friendly both on and off the field. Cobb used that friendship to his advantage. Cobb ignored Jackson when Jackson tried to say anything to him. When Jackson persisted, Cobb snapped angrily back at him, making him wonder what he could have done to enrage Cobb. Cobb felt that it was these mind games that caused Jackson to \"fall off\" to a final average of .408, twelve points lower than Cobb's .420, a twentieth-century record which stood until George Sisler tied it and Rogers Hornsby surpassed it with .424, the record since then except for Hugh Duffy's .438 in the nineteenth century.\n\nCobb led the AL that year in numerous other categories, including 248 hits, 147 runs scored, 127 RBI, 83 stolen bases, 47 doubles, 24 triples and a .621 slugging percentage. Cobb hit eight home runs but finished second in that category to Frank Baker, who hit eleven. He was awarded another Chalmers car, this time for being voted the AL MVP by the Baseball Writers' Association of America.\nOn May 12, 1911, Cobb's play illustrated his combination of skill and cunning. Playing against the New York Highlanders, he scored from first base on a single to right field, then scored another run from second base on a wild pitch. In the seventh inning, he tied the game with a two-run double. The Highlanders catcher vehemently argued the safe call at second base with the umpire in question, going on at such length that the other Highlanders infielders gathered nearby to watch. Realizing that no one on the Highlanders had called time, Cobb strolled unobserved to third base, and then casually walked towards home plate as if to get a better view of the argument. He then suddenly broke into a run and slid into home plate for the eventual winning run. It was performances like this that led Branch Rickey to say later that Cobb \"had brains in his feet\".\n\nDescribing his gameplay strategy in 1930, he said, \"My system was all offense. I believed in putting up a mental hazard for the other fellow. If we were five or six runs ahead, I'd try some wild play, such as going from first to home on a single. This helped to make the other side hurry the play in a close game later on. I worked out all the angles I could think of, to keep them guessing and hurrying.\" In the same interview, Cobb talked about having noticed a throwing tendency of first baseman Hal Chase, but having to wait two full years until the opportunity came to exploit it. By unexpectedly altering his own baserunning tendencies, he was able to surprise Chase and score the winning run of the game in question.\n\nOn May 15, 1912, Cobb assaulted a heckler, Claude Lucker (often misspelled as Lueker), in the stands in New York's Hilltop Park where his Tigers were playing the Highlanders. Lucker and Cobb had traded insults with each other through the first couple of innings. Cobb at one point went to the Highlander dugout to look for the Highlander's owner to try to have Lucker ejected from the game, but his search was in vain. The situation finally climaxed when Lucker allegedly called Cobb a \"half-nigger\". Cobb, in his discussion of the incident in the Holmes biography, avoided such explicit words but alluded to Lucker's epithet by saying he was \"reflecting on my mother's color and morals\". He went on to state that he warned Highlander manager Harry Wolverton that if something wasn't done about that man, there would be trouble. No action was taken. At the end of the sixth inning, after being challenged by teammates Sam Crawford and Jim Delahanty to do something about it, Cobb climbed into the stands and attacked Lucker, who it turned out was handicapped (he had lost all of one hand and three fingers on his other hand in an industrial accident). When onlookers shouted at him to stop because the man had no hands, he reportedly retorted, \"I don't care if he got no feet!\" Though extremely rare in the 21st century, attacking fans was not so unusual an activity in the early years of baseball. Other notable baseball stars who assaulted heckling fans include Babe Ruth, Cy Young, Rube Waddell, Kid Gleason, Sherry Magee, and Fred Clarke.\nThe league suspended him, and his teammates, though not fond of Cobb, went on strike to protest the suspension, and the lack of protection of players from abusive fans, before the May 18 game in Philadelphia. For that one game, Detroit fielded a replacement team made up of hastily recruited college and sandlot players plus two Tiger coaches and lost 24–2, thereby setting some of Major League Baseball's modern-era (post-1900) negative records, notably the 26 hits in a nine-inning game allowed by Allan Travers, who pitched one of the sport's most unlikely complete games. The pre-1901 record for the most hits and runs given up in a game is held by the Cleveland Blues' Dave Rowe. Primarily an outfielder, Rowe pitched a complete game on July 24, 1882, giving up 35 runs on 29 hits. The current post-1900 record for most hits in a nine-inning game is 31, set in 1992 by the Milwaukee Brewers against Toronto; however, the Blue Jays used six pitchers.\n\nThe strike ended when Cobb urged his teammates to return to the field. According to him, this incident led to the formation of a players' union, the \"Ballplayers' Fraternity\" (formally, the Fraternity of Professional Baseball Players of America), an early version of what is now called the Major League Baseball Players Association, which garnered some concessions from the owners.\n\nCobb, during his career, was involved in numerous other fights, both on and off the field, and several profanity-laced shouting matches. For example, Cobb and umpire Billy Evans arranged to settle their in-game differences through fisticuffs under the grandstand after the game. Members of both teams were spectators, and broke up the scuffle after Cobb had knocked Evans down, pinned him and began choking him. In 1909, Cobb was arrested for assault for an incident that occurred in a Cleveland hotel. Cobb got into an argument with the elevator operator around 2:15 a.m. when the man refused to take him to the floor where some of his teammates were having a card game. The elevator operator stated that he could only take Cobb to the floor where his room was. As the argument escalated, a night watchman approached and he and Cobb eventually got into a physical confrontation. During the fight, Cobb produced a pen knife and slashed the watchman across the hand. Cobb later claimed that the watchman, who had the upper hand in the fight, had his finger in Cobb's left eye and that Cobb was worried he was going to have his sight ruined. The fight finally ended when the watchman produced a gun and struck Cobb several times in the head, knocking him out. Cobb would later plead guilty to simple assault and pay a $100 fine. This incident has often been retold with the elevator operator and the watchman both being black. However, recent scholarship has shown that all parties involved were white.\n\nIn 1915, Cobb set the single-season record for stolen bases with 96, which stood until Dodger Maury Wills broke it in 1962.\nIn 1917, Cobb hit in 35 consecutive games, still the only player with two 35-game hitting streaks (including his 40-game streak in 1911). He had six hitting streaks of at least 20 games in his career, second only to Pete Rose's seven. \n\nAlso in 1917, Cobb starred in the motion picture \"Somewhere in Georgia\" for a sum of $25,000 plus expenses (equivalent to approximately $ today ). Based on a story by sports columnist Grantland Rice, the film casts Cobb as \"himself\", a small-town Georgian bank clerk with a talent for baseball. Broadway critic Ward Morehouse called the movie \"absolutely the worst flicker I ever saw, pure hokum\".\n\nIn October 1918, Cobb enlisted in the Chemical Corps branch of the United States Army and was sent to the Allied Expeditionary Forces headquarters in Chaumont, France. He served approximately 67 days overseas before receiving an honorable discharge and returning to the United States. He was given the rank of captain underneath the command of Major Branch Rickey, the president of the St. Louis Cardinals. Other baseball players serving in this unit included Captain Christy Mathewson and Lieutenant George Sisler. All of these men were assigned to the Gas and Flame Division, where they trained soldiers in preparation for chemical attacks by exposing them to gas chambers in a controlled environment, which was eventually responsible for Mathewson's contracting tuberculosis which led to his premature death on the eve of the 1925 World Series.\n\nOn August 19, 1921, in the second game of a doubleheader against Elmer Myers of the Boston Red Sox, Cobb collected his 3,000th hit. Aged 34 at the time, he is still the youngest ballplayer to reach that milestone, and in the fewest at-bats (8,093).\n\nBy 1920, Babe Ruth, newly sold to the newly named New York Yankees from the Boston Red Sox, had established himself as a power hitter, something Cobb was not considered to be. When his Tigers showed up in New York to play the Yankees for the first time that season, writers billed it as a showdown between two stars of competing styles of play. Ruth hit two homers and a triple during the series, compared to Cobb's one single.\n\nAs Ruth's popularity grew, Cobb became increasingly hostile toward him. He saw the Babe not only as a threat to his style of play, but also to his style of life. While Cobb preached ascetic self-denial, Ruth gorged on hot dogs, beer and women. Perhaps what angered him the most about Ruth was that despite Babe's total disregard for his physical condition and traditional baseball, he was still an overwhelming success and brought fans to the ballparks in record numbers to see him challenge his own slugging records.\n\nAfter enduring several years of seeing his fame and notoriety usurped by Ruth, Cobb decided that he was going to show that swinging for the fences was no challenge for a top hitter. On May 5, 1925, he began a two-game hitting spree better than any even Ruth had unleashed. Sitting in the Tiger dugout, he told a reporter that, for the first time in his career, he was going to swing for the fences. That day, he went 6 for 6, with two singles, a double and three home runs. The 16 total bases set a new AL record, which stood until May 8, 2012 when Josh Hamilton of the Texas Rangers hit four home runs and a double for a total of 18 bases. The next day he had three more hits, two of which were home runs. The single his first time up gave him nine consecutive hits over three games. His five homers in two games tied the record set by Cap Anson of the old Chicago NL team in 1884. Cobb wanted to show that he could hit home runs when he wanted, but simply chose not to do so. At the end of the series, the 38-year-old veteran superstar had gone 12 for 19 with 29 total bases and then went happily back to his usual bunting and hitting-and-running. For his part, Ruth's attitude was that \"I could have had a lifetime .600 average, but I would have had to hit them singles. The people were paying to see me hit home runs.\" Even so, when asked in 1930 by Grantland Rice to name the best hitter he'd ever seen, Cobb answered, \"You can't beat the Babe. Ruth is one of the few who can take a terrific swing and still meet the ball solidly. His timing is perfect. [No one has] the combined power and eye of Ruth.\"\n\nTiger owner Frank Navin tapped Cobb to take over for Hughie Jennings as manager for the 1921 season, a deal he signed on his 34th birthday for $32,500 (equivalent to approximately $ in today's funds). The signing surprised the baseball world. Although Cobb was a legendary player, he was disliked throughout the baseball community, even by his own teammates; and he expected as much from his players since he set a standard most players couldn't meet.\n\nThe closest Cobb came to winning another pennant was in 1924, when the Tigers finished in third place, six games behind the pennant-winning Washington Senators. The Tigers had also finished third in 1922, but 16 games behind the Yankees. Cobb blamed his lackluster managerial record (479 wins against 444 losses) on Navin, who was arguably even more frugal than he was, passing up a number of quality players Cobb wanted to add to the team. In fact, he had saved money by hiring Cobb to both play and manage.\n\nIn 1922, Cobb tied a batting record set by Wee Willie Keeler, with four five-hit games in a season. This has since been matched by Stan Musial, Tony Gwynn and Ichiro Suzuki. On May 10, 1924, Cobb was honored at ceremonies before a game in Washington, D.C., by more than 100 dignitaries and legislators. He received 21 books, one for each year in professional baseball.\n\nAt the end of 1925 Cobb was once again embroiled in a batting title race, this time with one of his teammates and players, Harry Heilmann. In a doubleheader against the St. Louis Browns on October 4, 1925, Heilmann got six hits to lead the Tigers to a sweep of the doubleheader and beat Cobb for the batting crown, .393 to .389. Cobb and Brownie player-manager George Sisler each pitched in the final game, Cobb pitching a perfect inning.\n\nCobb announced his retirement after a 22-year career as a Tiger in November 1926, and headed home to Augusta, Georgia. Shortly thereafter, Tris Speaker also retired as player-manager of the Cleveland Indians. The retirement of two great players at the same time sparked some interest, and it turned out that the two were coerced into retirement because of allegations of game-fixing brought about by Dutch Leonard, a former pitcher managed by Cobb.\nLeonard accused former pitcher and outfielder Smoky Joe Wood and Cobb of betting on a Tiger-Indian game played in Detroit on September 25, 1919, in which they allegedly orchestrated a Tiger victory to win the bet. Leonard claimed proof existed in letters written to him by Cobb and Wood. Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis held a secret hearing with Cobb, Speaker and Wood. A second secret meeting among the AL directors led to the unpublicized resignations of Cobb and Speaker; however, rumors of the scandal led Judge Landis to hold additional hearings in which Leonard subsequently refused to participate. Cobb and Wood admitted to writing the letters, but claimed that a horse-racing bet was involved and that Leonard's accusations were in retaliation for Cobb's having released him from the Tigers, thereby demoting him to the minor leagues. Speaker denied any wrongdoing.\n\nOn January 27, 1927, Judge Landis cleared Cobb and Speaker of any wrongdoing because of Leonard's refusal to appear at the hearings. Landis allowed both Cobb and Speaker to return to their original teams, but each team let them know that they were free agents and could sign with any club they wanted. Speaker signed with the Washington Senators for 1927, and Cobb with the Philadelphia Athletics. Speaker then joined Cobb in Philadelphia for the 1928 season. Cobb said he had come back only to seek vindication and say he left baseball on his own terms.\n\nCobb played regularly in 1927 for a young and talented team that finished second to one of the greatest teams of all time, the 110–44 1927 Yankees, returning to Detroit to a tumultuous welcome on May 11 and doubling his first time up to the cheers of Tiger fans. On July 18, Cobb became the first member of the 4000 hit club when he doubled off former teammate Sam Gibson, still pitching for the Tigers, at Navin Field.\n\n1927 was also the final season of Washington Senators pitcher Walter Johnson's career. With their careers largely overlapping, Cobb faced Johnson more times than any other batter-pitcher matchup in baseball history. Cobb also got the first hit ever allowed by Johnson. After Johnson hit Detroit's Ossie Vitt with a pitch in August 1915, seriously injuring him, Cobb realized that Johnson was fearful of hitting opponents. He used this knowledge to his advantage by standing closer to the plate.\n\nCobb returned for the 1928 season, but played less frequently due to his age and the blossoming abilities of the young A's, who were again in a pennant race with the Yankees. On September 3, Ty Cobb pinch-hit in the ninth inning of the first game of a doubleheader against the Senators and doubled off Bump Hadley for his last career hit although his last at-bat wasn't until September 11 against the Yankees, popping out off Hank Johnson and grounding out to shortstop Mark Koenig. He then announced his retirement, effective the end of the season, after batting .300 or higher in 23 consecutive seasons (the only season under .300 being his rookie season), a major league record not likely to be broken.\n\nHe also ended his career with a rather dubious record. When Cobb retired, he led AL outfielders for most errors all-time with 271, which still stands today. Nineteenth-century player Tom Brown holds the major league record with 490 errors committed as an outfielder, while the National League record is held by nineteenth-century player George Gore with 346 errors. Cobb ranks 14th on the all-time list for errors committed by an outfielder.\n\nCobb retired a very rich and successful man. He toured Europe with his family, went to Scotland for some time and then returned to his farm in Georgia. He spent his retirement pursuing his off-season avocations of hunting, golfing, polo and fishing. His other pastime was trading stocks and bonds, increasing his immense personal wealth. He was a major stockholder in the Coca-Cola Corporation, which by itself would have made him wealthy.\n\nIn the winter of 1930, Cobb moved into a Spanish ranch estate on Spencer Lane in the affluent town of Atherton located south of San Francisco, California on the San Francisco Peninsula. At the same time, his wife Charlie filed the first of several divorce suits; but withdrew the suit shortly thereafter. The couple eventually divorced in 1947 after 39 years of marriage; the last few years of which Mrs. Cobb lived in nearby Menlo Park. The couple had three sons and two daughters: Tyrus Raymond Jr, Shirley Marion, Herschel Roswell, James Howell and Beverly.\n\nCobb never had an easy time as husband and father. His children found him to be demanding, yet also capable of kindness and extreme warmth. He expected his sons to be exceptional athletes in general and baseball players in particular. Tyrus Raymond, Jr. flunked out of Princeton (where he had played on the varsity tennis team), much to his father's dismay. The elder Cobb subsequently traveled to the Princeton campus and beat his son with a whip to ensure against future academic failure. Tyrus Raymond, Jr. then entered Yale University and became captain of the tennis team while improving his academics, but was then arrested twice in 1930 for drunkenness and left Yale without graduating. Cobb helped his son deal with his pending legal problems, but then permanently broke off with him. Even though Tyrus Raymond, Jr. finally reformed and eventually earned an M.D. from the Medical College of South Carolina and practiced obstetrics and gynecology in Dublin, Georgia, until his premature death at 42 on September 9, 1952, from a brain tumor, his father remained distant.\n\nIn February 1936, when the first Hall of Fame election results were announced, Cobb had been named on 222 of 226 ballots, outdistancing Babe Ruth, Honus Wagner, Christy Mathewson and Walter Johnson, the only others to earn the necessary 75% of votes to be elected that first year. His 98.2 percentage stood as the record until Tom Seaver received 98.8% of the vote in 1992. Those incredible results show that although many people disliked him personally, they respected the way he had played and what he had accomplished. In 1998, \"Sporting News\" ranked him as third on the list of 100 Greatest Baseball Players.\n\nOf major league stars of the 1940s and 1950s, he had positive things to say about Stan Musial, Phil Rizzuto and Jackie Robinson, but few others. Even so, he was known to help out young players. He was instrumental in helping Joe DiMaggio negotiate his rookie contract with the New York Yankees.\n\nAccording to sportswriter Grantland Rice, he and Cobb were returning from the Masters golf tournament in the late 1940s and stopped at a Greenville, South Carolina, liquor store. Cobb noticed that the man behind the counter was \"Shoeless\" Joe Jackson, who had been banned from baseball almost 30 years earlier following the Black Sox scandal. Jackson did not appear to recognize him, and after making his purchase an incredulous Cobb asked, \"Don't you know me, Joe?\" \"I know you\", replied Jackson, \"but I wasn't sure you wanted to speak to me. A lot of them don't.\"\n\nCobb was mentioned in the poem \"Line-Up for Yesterday\" by Ogden Nash:\n\nAt the age of 62, Cobb married a second time in 1949. His new wife was 40-year-old Frances Fairbairn Cass, a divorcee from Buffalo, New York. Their childless marriage also failed, ending with a divorce in 1956. At this time, Cobb became generous with his wealth, donating $100,000 in his parents' name for his hometown to build a modern 24-bed hospital, Cobb Memorial Hospital, which is now part of the Ty Cobb Healthcare System. He also established the Cobb Educational Fund, which awarded scholarships to needy Georgia students bound for college, by endowing it with a $100,000 donation in 1953 (equivalent to approximately $ in current year dollars ).\n\nHe knew that another way he could share his wealth was by having biographies written that would both set the record straight on him and teach young players how to play. John McCallum spent some time with Cobb to write a combination how-to and biography titled \"The Tiger Wore Spikes: An Informal Biography of Ty Cobb\" that was published in 1956. In December 1959, he was diagnosed with prostate cancer, diabetes, high blood pressure, and Bright's disease.\n\nIt was also during his final years that Cobb began work on his autobiography, \"My Life in Baseball: The True Record\", with writer Al Stump. Later Stump would claim the collaboration was contentious, and after Cobb's death Stump published two more books and a short story giving what he claimed was the \"true story\". One of these later books was used as the basis for the 1994 film \"Cobb\" (a box office flop starring Tommy Lee Jones as Cobb and directed by Ron Shelton). In 2010, an article by William R. \"Ron\" Cobb (no relation to Ty) in the peer-reviewed \"The National Pastime\" (the official publication of the Society for American Baseball Research) accused Stump of extensive forgeries of Cobb-related documents and diaries. The article further accused Stump of numerous false statements about Cobb in his last years, most of which were sensationalistic in nature and intended to cast Cobb in an unflattering light.\n\nIn his last days, Cobb spent some time with the old movie comedian Joe E. Brown, talking about the choices he had made in his life. He told Brown that he felt that he had made mistakes and that he would do things differently if he could. He had played hard and lived hard all his life, had no friends to show for it at the end, and regretted it. Publicly, however, he claimed to have no regrets: \"I've been lucky. I have no right to be regretful of what I did.\"\n\nHe checked into Emory Hospital for the last time in June 1961. His first wife, Charlie, his son Jimmy and other family members came to be with him for his final days. He died a month later, on July 17, 1961, at Emory University Hospital.\n\nApproximately 150 friends and relatives attended a brief service in Cornelia, Georgia, and drove to the Cobb family mausoleum in Royston for the burial. Baseball's only representatives at his funeral were three old-time players, Ray Schalk, Mickey Cochrane and Nap Rucker, along with Sid Keener, the director of the Baseball Hall of Fame, but messages of condolences numbered in the hundreds. Family in attendance included Cobb's former wife Charlie, his two daughters, his surviving son Jimmy, his two sons-in-law, his daughter-in-law Mary Dunn Cobb and her two children.\n\nAt the time of his death, Cobb's estate was reported to be worth at least $11.78 million (equivalent to $ today), including $10 million worth of General Motors stock and $1.78 million in The Coca-Cola Company stock. His will left a quarter of his estate to the Cobb Educational Fund, and distributed the rest among his children and grandchildren. Cobb is interred in the Rose Hill Cemetery in Royston, Georgia. As of July 2015, the Ty Cobb Educational Foundation has distributed $15.8 million in college scholarships to needy Georgians.\n\nHistorian Steven Elliott Tripp has explored the reaction of fans—he was “a player fans loved to hate,” so much so that he became the pioneer sports celebrity. It was the male fans who responded enthusiastically to how Cobb demonstrated in action a new level of modern masculinity. Cobb did that by his performance as a specialist in his art, a man with iron nerve, undaunted, fighting to advance his team and his career by crushing his weaker, less-masculine opponents. Cobb demonstrated raw emotion and encouraged his audience to participate in the manly struggle underway in the stadium by shouting their taunts and jeers at the opposing team.\n\nCobb has been judged by some historians and journalists as the best player of the dead-ball era, and is generally seen as one of the greatest players of all time.\n\nEfforts to create a Ty Cobb Memorial in Royston initially failed, primarily because most of the artifacts from his life were sent to the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York and the Georgia town was viewed as too remote to make a memorial worthwhile. But ultimately, on July 17, 1998, the 37th anniversary of Cobb's death, the Ty Cobb Museum and the Franklin County Sports Hall of Fame opened its doors in Royston. On that day, Cobb was one of the first members to be inducted into the Franklin County Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nOn August 30, 2005, his hometown hosted a 1905 baseball game to commemorate the 100th anniversary of Cobb's first major league game. Players in the game included many of Cobb's descendants as well as many citizens from his hometown of Royston. Another early-20th-century baseball game was played in his hometown at Cobb Field on September 30, 2006, with Cobb's descendants and Roystonians again playing. Cobb's personal batboy from his major league years was also in attendance, and threw out the first pitch.\n\nIn addition to the aforementioned film, Ty Cobb's legacy also includes legions of collectors of his early tobacco card issues, as well as game used memorabilia and autographs. Perhaps the most curious item is a 1909 Ty Cobb Cigarettes pack, leaving some to believe Cobb either had, or attempted to have, his own brand of cigarettes. Very little about the card is known other than its similarity to the 1909 T206 Red Portrait card published by the American Tobacco Company, and until 2005 only a handful were known to exist. That year, a sizable cache of the cards was brought to auction by the family of a Royston, Georgia, man who had stored them in a book for almost 100 years..\n\nThe new baseball stadium at Hampden–Sydney College is named Ty Cobb Ballpark.\n\nThe band Soundgarden recorded a song \"Ty Cobb\" in the album \"Down on the Upside\" in 1996. However, the song wasn't actually written about Ty Cobb, it was given the name because the lyrics reminded their bassist Ben Shepherd of him.\n\nCeltic-Punk band Flatfoot 56 composed and recorded a song about Ty Cobb as a part of their album \"Odd Boat\" released in March 2017.\n\nSam Crawford and Ty Cobb were teammates for parts of thirteen seasons. They played beside each other in right and center field, and Crawford followed Cobb in the batting order year after year. Despite the physical closeness, the two had a complicated relationship.\n\nInitially, they had a student-teacher relationship. Crawford was an established star when Cobb arrived, and Cobb eagerly sought his advice. In interviews with Al Stump, Cobb told of studying Crawford's base stealing technique and of how Crawford would teach him about pursuing fly balls and throwing out base runners. Cobb told Stump he would always remember Crawford's kindness.\nThe student-teacher relationship gradually changed to one of jealous rivals. Cobb was not popular with his teammates, and as Cobb became the biggest star in baseball, Crawford was unhappy with the preferential treatment given to Cobb. Cobb was allowed to show up late for spring training and was given private quarters on the road – perks not offered to Crawford. The competition between the two was intense. Crawford recalled that, if he went three for four on a day when Cobb went hitless, Cobb would turn red and sometimes walk out of the park with the game still on. When it was reported that Nap Lajoie had won the batting title, Crawford was alleged to have been one of several Tigers who sent a telegram to Lajoie congratulating him on beating Cobb.\n\nIn retirement, Cobb wrote a letter to a writer for \"The Sporting News\" accusing Crawford of not helping in the outfield and of intentionally fouling off balls when Cobb was stealing a base. Crawford learned about the letter in 1946 and accused Cobb of being a \"cheapskate\" who never helped his teammates. He said that Cobb had not been a very good fielder, \"so he blamed me.\" Crawford denied intentionally trying to deprive Cobb of stolen bases, insisting that Cobb had \"dreamed that up\".\n\nWhen asked about the feud, Cobb attributed it to envy. He felt that Crawford was \"a hell of a good player\", but he was \"second best\" on the Tigers and \"hated to be an also ran\". Cobb biographer Richard Bak noted that the two \"only barely tolerated each other\" and agreed with Cobb that Crawford's attitude was driven by Cobb's having stolen Crawford's thunder.\n\nAlthough they may not have spoken to each other, Cobb and Crawford developed an uncanny ability to communicate non-verbally with looks and nods on the base paths. They became one of the most successful double steal pairings in baseball history.\n\nFive years after Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier, Cobb publicly supported blacks and whites playing baseball together, adding, \"Certainly it is okay for them to play. I see no reason in the world why we shouldn't compete with colored athletes as long as they conduct themselves with politeness and gentility. Let me say also that no white man has the right to be less of a gentleman than a colored man; in my book that goes not only for baseball but in all walks of life.\" Using even stronger language, Cobb told the \"Sporting News\" in 1952 that \"the Negro should be accepted and not grudgingly but wholeheartedly.\" In 1953, black newspapers cited his praise for Brooklyn Dodgers' catcher Roy Campanella, who Cobb said was \"among the all-time best catchers\" in baseball. Following Campanella's accident that left him paralyzed, the Dodgers staged a tribute game where tens of thousands of spectators silently held lit matches above their heads. Cobb wrote the Dodgers owner to show appreciation \"for what you did for this fine man\". Cobb also stated that Willie Mays was the \"only player I'd pay money to see\". In the obituaries that ran in the black press following Cobb's death, he was praised for \"[speaking] in favor of racial freedom in baseball\".\n\nSome historians, including Wesley Fricks, Dan Holmes, and Charles Leerhsen have defended Cobb against unfair portrayals of him in popular culture since his death. A noted case is the book written by sportswriter Al Stump in the months after Cobb died in 1961. Stump was later discredited when it became known that he had stolen items belonging to Cobb and also betrayed the access Cobb gave him in his final months. As a result of the movie \"Cobb\" which starred Tommy Lee Jones, there are many myths surrounding Cobb's life, including one that he sharpened his spikes to inflict wounds to opposing players. Leerhsen's book \"Ty Cobb: A Terrible Beauty\" presents primary evidence in contradiction to some of the more negative charges against Cobb.\n\nIn 2013, Cobb's grandson, Herschel Cobb, published a book about his grandfather titled \"Heart of a Tiger, Growing Up With My Grandfather, Ty Cobb\". In this book, Herschel Cobb provides an inside view of his grandfather's kindness and generosity. It also includes an account of teenaged Herschel Cobb confronting Stump leading to a first-hand account of Stump's dishonesty.\n\nBoth official sources, such as Total Baseball, and a number of independent researchers, including John Thorn, have raised questions about Cobb's exact career totals. Hits have been re-estimated at between 4,189 and 4,191, due to a possible double-counted game in 1910. At-bats estimates have ranged as high as 11,437. The numbers shown below are the figures officially recognized on MLB.com.\n\nThe figures on Baseball-Reference.com are as follows. Other private research sites may have different figures. Caught Stealing is not shown comprehensively for Cobb's MLB.com totals, because the stat was not regularly recorded until 1920.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36062271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36062271", "title": "Yevgeni Nikolayevich Andreyev", "text": "Yevgeni Nikolayevich Andreyev\n\nYevgeni (Eugene) Nikolayevich Andreyev (; 4 September 1926 – 9 February 2000) was a colonel in the Soviet Air Force. He set an official record for the longest-distance free-fall parachute jump on 1 November 1962, which the \"Guinness Book of Records\" put at 24,500 meters (80,380 feet). The previous record holder for highest free-fall jump was Joseph Kittinger. Andreyev did however not break the record for highest parachute jump, also held by Kittinger, but that jump was stabilized by a drogue parachute and therefore not free-fall. Andreyev was awarded the Hero of the Soviet Union for his feat. \n\nAndreyev's record stood until 2012, when Felix Baumgartner broke it with a jump from .\n\nHe was born on 4 September 1926 in the city of Novosibirsk, Russia. He was a member of the CPSU since 1972. From 1937 to 1942 he was brought up in an orphanage in Serov, Sverdlovsk Region. He worked in a factory in the city of Nizhny Tagil. He was in the Soviet Army in 1943. He studied at the School of Armavir pilots.\n\nIn 1955 he graduated from the Ryazan Airborne School. After graduation he participated in a test of parachute systems on 1 November 1962 as part of a secret experiment conducted by the head of the Soviet space program Sergey Korolev.\n\nOn 1 November 1962, Andreyev and Pyotr Dolgov ascended from Volsk, near Saratov. Andreyev jumped from the capsule at and free-fell before successfully deploying his parachute.\n\nBy decree of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR on 12 December 1962 for courage and heroism shown during the trial of the parachute equipment, Evgeny Andreyev was awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union with the award of the Order of Lenin and Gold Star medal (№ 11092).\n\nAndreyev was a Master of Sports in the former USSR and holder of FAI Sporting Licence #3812.\n\nIn 1985, Andreyev, one of the first in the country, was awarded the honorary title of Honored skydiver test the USSR, badge number 3.\n\nIn total, he made eight jumps from the stratosphere.\n\nHe lived in the village Chkalovsky, Moscow region. He died on 9 February 2000 and is buried in the cemetery of the village Leoniha of Schyolkovo district, Moscow region.\n\n\n"}
