{"id": "8239571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8239571", "title": "Abe no Yoritoki", "text": "Abe no Yoritoki\n\nThe clan emerged from the Appi River basin in what is now Hachimantai City, Iwate Prefecture, early in the 9th century. They provided a number of generals and governors throughout the 9th and 10th centuries. By monopolizing the gold, iron and horse trade in northern Honshū the family became enormously wealthy. They were also innovative in designing a new type of stockade which could withstand a long siege.\n\nThe 9th and 10th centuries saw a weakening of central power as a new land management system of tax-immune estates, or shoen, took hold.\n\nYoritoki and the Abes came into conflict with the Minamoto clan as it began to expand north into Abe territory. The Abe clan began to raid territories south of their border. In 1051 Yoritoki led an army of Emishi into northern Miyagi and defeated a government army at Onikiribe that had been sent to stop the raids. This event triggered the Former Nine Years' War (Zenkunen War).\n\nMinamoto no Yoriyoshi was then deputized as the new \"Chinjufu Shogun\" and sent to chastise Yoritoki in 1053. In 1056 Yoritoki's eldest son, Sadato, began skirmishing with the Minamotos. War erupted in 1057 and Yoritoki was killed in battle by a stray arrow.\n\nYoritoki's sons continued fighting for a time but were finally overwhelmed by combined Minamoto and Kiyowara armies in 1062.\n\nYoritoki was the father of -\n\nYoritoki is also one of the distant forefathers of Shinzō Abe, the prime minister of Japan, through Munetō.\n\n"}
{"id": "55821402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55821402", "title": "Alcira Soust Scaffo", "text": "Alcira Soust Scaffo\n\nAlcira Soust Scaffo (4 March 1924 – 30 June 1997) was a Uruguayan teacher and poet who lived in Mexico for more than two decades. During the occupation of the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) by the Mexican Army in 1968, she remained hidden for 15 days in a bathroom at the university. This episode became a notable anecdote of the Mexico 68 movement, and was also included in Roberto Bolaño's novels.\n\nAlcira Soust Scaffo was the youngest of three sisters in a middle class family. From an early age she excelled academically, managing to become a schoolteacher at 20. She obtained an interim assistantship at Escuela Granja No. 43 in Chileno Grande, on the north coast of the Río Negro.\n\nIn the 1960s she settled in Mexico. She received a scholarship from the Center for Regional Cooperation for Adult Education in Latin America and the Caribbean (\"Centro de Cooperación Regional para la Educación de Adultos en América Latina y el Caribe\"; CREFAL) to attend the training course for Fundamental Education Specialists in Pátzcuaro, Michoacán. This was attended by three other compatriots, including , who would lead CREFAL years later.\n\nAt CREFAL, Soust worked with indigenous and peasant communities. At the conclusion of the course she wrote an essay on the importance of recreation entitled \"Recreation in the structure of personality\", which would be the first thesis published by CREFAL. After the course, Soust got an extension of the scholarship to study muralism with Rufino Tamayo.\n\nIn 1960 she married a doctor, from whom she separated in 1962.\n\nIn 1968, Alcira Soust resided and worked on the UNAM campus. In the absence of a stable job, she lived on small tasks that were given by some professors of the Faculty of Philosophy and Letters (mainly translations of French), with the help of her friends, and through the drawings and poems that she delivered at will or simply gave away.\n\nShe had connected with the poets of the Mexico City scene, where she became friends with José Revueltas. Soust is the basis for the character of Auxilio Lacouture from the novel \"The Savage Detectives\", in which Roberto Bolaño recreated the literary environment of that time. In this work, and later in \"Amulet\", Soust's resistance is reconstructed literarily during the invasion of UNAM by the Mexican Army.\n\nThe university campus was invaded and occupied by the army on 18 September 1968. Some witnesses maintain that Soust helped students to escape and put verses of León Felipe on the loudspeakers as a peaceful protest. The fear of being imprisoned led her to hide in a bathroom in the Humanities Tower, where she remained for the 15 days that the occupation lasted.\n\nThis fact transformed her into a legend of the student movement, which came to consider her the Uruguayan that \"resisted\" the military occupation.\n\nSout returned to Uruguay in 1988. She arrived in Montevideo in a fragile state of health, with a letter to her family detailing her delicate psychological situation. At first, she maintained contact with her relatives, who supported her financially on many occasions. Eventually, she completely lost the link, despite a search by her family, which failed to reestablish contact.\n\nAlcira Soust died on 30 June 1997 at age 74, due to a respiratory infection, at the Hospital de Clínicas in Montevideo.\n"}
{"id": "694405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=694405", "title": "Beloved (1998 film)", "text": "Beloved (1998 film)\n\nBeloved is a 1998 American horror-drama film based on Toni Morrison's 1987 novel of the same name, directed by Jonathan Demme and starring Oprah Winfrey, Danny Glover, and Thandie Newton. The plot centers on a former slave after the American Civil War, her haunting by a poltergeist, and the visitation of her reincarnated daughter whom she murdered out of desperation to save her from a slave owner. Despite being a box office bomb, \"Beloved\" received an Academy Award nomination for Best Costume Design for Colleen Atwood, and both Danny Glover and Kimberly Elise received praise for their performances.\n\nSethe is a former slave living on the outskirts of Cincinnati shortly after the Civil War. An angry poltergeist terrorizes Sethe and her three children, causing her two sons to run away forever. Eight years later, Sethe (Oprah Winfrey) lives alone with her daughter, Denver (Kimberly Elise). Paul D. (Danny Glover), an old friend from Sweet Home, the plantation Sethe had escaped from years earlier, finds Sethe's home, where he drives off the angry spirit that inhabits it. Afterwards, Paul D. proposes that he should stay and Sethe responds favorably. Shortly after Paul D. moves in, a clean and seemingly mentally handicapped young woman (Thandie Newton) named Beloved finds her way into Sethe's yard and is taken in by her.\n\nDenver is initially happy to have Beloved around, but learns that she is Sethe's reincarnated daughter. Nonetheless, she chooses not to divulge Beloved's origins to Sethe. One night, Beloved, aware that Paul D. dislikes her, immobilizes him with a spell and proceeds to rape him. Paul D. resolves to tell Sethe what happened, but instead tells what has happened to a co-worker, Stamp Paid (Albert Hall). Stamp Paid, who has known Sethe for many years, pulls a newspaper clipping featuring Sethe and tells her story to the illiterate Paul D.\n\nYears ago, Sethe was raped by the nephews of Schoolteacher, the owner of Sweet Home. She complained to Mrs. Garner, Schoolteacher's sister-in-law, who confronted him. In retaliation, Schoolteacher and his nephews brutally whip Sethe, leaving a \"tree\" of keloid scars on her back. Heavily pregnant with her fourth child, Sethe planned to escape. Her other children were sent off earlier to live with Baby Suggs, Sethe's mother-in-law, but Sethe stayed behind to look for her husband, Halle (Hill Harper). Sethe was assaulted while searching for him in the barn. The Schoolteacher's nephews held her down, raped her and forcibly took her breast milk.\n\nWhen Halle failed to comply, Sethe ran off alone. She crossed paths with Amy Denver, a white girl who treated Sethe's injuries and delivered Sethe's child, whom Sethe named Denver after Amy. Sethe eventually reached Baby Suggs' home, but her initial happiness was short-lived when Schoolteacher came to claim Sethe and her children. In desperation, Sethe slits her older daughter's throat, and attempts to kill her other children. Stamp Paid manages to stop her and the disgusted Schoolteacher departs.\n\nPaul D., horrified by the revelation and suddenly understanding the origin of the poltergeist, confronts Sethe. Sethe justifies her decision without apology, claiming that her children would be better off dead than enslaved. Paul D. departs shortly thereafter in protest. After Paul D.'s departure, Sethe realizes that Beloved is the reincarnation of her dead daughter. Feeling elated yet guilty, Sethe spoils Beloved with elaborate gifts while neglecting Denver. Beloved soon throws a destructive tantrum and her malevolent presence causes living conditions in the house to deteriorate. The women live in squalor and Sethe is unable to work, having become physically and mentally drained by Beloved's parasitic nature. Denver becomes depressed yet, inspired by a memory of her grandmother's confidence in her, she eventually musters the courage to leave the house and seek employment.\n\nAfter Denver attains employment, women from the local church visit Sethe's house at the request of her new co-worker to perform an exorcism. Their motive for doing so is partly tempered with guilt; years before, they failed to warn Sethe of Schoolteacher's impending arrival. The women from the church comfort the family, and they are praying and singing loudly when Denver's new employer arrives to pick her up for work. Sethe sees him and, reminded of Schoolteacher's arrival, tries to attack him with an icepick, but is subdued by Denver and the women. During the commotion, Beloved disappears completely and Sethe, freed from Beloved's grip, becomes permanently bedridden.\n\nSome months later, Paul D. encounters Denver at the marketplace. He notices she has transformed into a confident and mature young woman. When Paul D. later arrives at Sethe's house, he finds her suffering from a deep malaise. He assures Sethe that he and Denver will now take care of her. Sethe tells him that she doesn't see the point, as Beloved, her \"best thing\", is gone. Paul D. disagrees, telling Sethe that she herself is her own best thing.\n\n\nJonathan Demme regular Charles Napier (\"The Silence of the Lambs, Philadelphia\") has a cameo as an angry carnie.\n\nPrior to Morrison's receipt of the Pulitzer Prize for \"Beloved\", Winfrey purchased the rights to the novel in 1987; the translation to film then occurred a decade later. There was a conflict over screenplay credit with Akosua Busia demanding sole credit and saying Adam Brooks and Richard LaGravenese got too much. WGA gave credit to all three. Busia said they were all little more than script doctors.\n\nFilming locations included a soundstage in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Landis Valley Museum (Lancaster County, PA) and a field in Fair Hill Natural Resources Management Area, in Cecil County, Maryland, at a spot just east of Big Elk Creek and just south of the border with Chester County, Pennsylvania. In 1998 the State of Maryland compiled a document that included a location-map and photographs of the buildings constructed for the film as they stood in Fair Hill NRMA. Filming also took place In Montgomery County PA, on the north side of the Schuylkill River with in Valley Forge National Historical Park. Filming locations also included New Castle, Delaware\n\nDuring promotion of the film, Thandie Newton said to Vogue magazine, \"Here we were working on this project with the heavy underbelly of political and social realism, and she managed to lighten things up ... I've worked with a lot of good actors, and I know Oprah hasn't made many films. I was stunned. She's a very strong technical actress and it's because she's so smart. She's acute. She's got a mind like a razor blade.\"\n\nCritical reception was positive, with a 78% \"fresh\" rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 67 reviews. The film, however, was a failure at the box office and could not come close to surpassing its $80 million budget. According to BoxOfficeMojo.com and TheNumbers.com, the movie grossed only $8,165,551 on its opening weekend, ranking #5 and being beat out by the horror movie \"Bride of Chucky\" which ranked #2 and grossed approx $11,830,855 the same weekend. Winfrey has gone on public record stating that she ate 30 pounds of macaroni and cheese when she was informed the Saturday after the movie opened that \"we got beat by something called Chucky.\" Oprah also claimed that \"Beloved\"'s failure at the box office was the worst moment in her career and brought her into a major depression. \"It was the only time in my life that I was ever depressed, and I recognised that I (was) depressed because I've done enough shows (on the topic). 'Oh, this is what people must feel like who are depressed.'\"\n\nDirector Jonathan Demme has commented, \"\"Beloved\" only played in theaters for four weeks. It made $22 million dollars -- I think that's a lot of money. And the only reason it left theaters after a month was because the Disney corporation that released the picture wanted all the \"Beloved\" theaters -- where we were doing very well, in a number of situations. The Walt Disney company wanted those theaters for Adam Sandler's \"Waterboy\". So, we were told that they were gonna bring us back at the end of the year, and they didn't. But the picture did very respectfully. It was in the top ten its whole life.\" \n\nBox office records have shown that Beloved remained in theaters into the holiday season, and by December 27, 1998, had grossed $22,746,521. The film later returned to theaters for two weeks in March 1999, grossing an additional $1,000. It was also no longer listed in the top ten on the box office chart by the November 6–8 weekend and had dropped to the rank of 12 on the chart by this point in time.\n\nIn 2013, Winfrey reflected on the film, saying: \"To this day I ask myself, was it a mistake? Was it a mistake to not try and make [it] a more commercial film? To take some things out and tell the story differently so that it would be more palatable to an audience? Well, if you wanted to make a film that everybody would see, then that would be a mistake. But at the time, I was pleased with the film that we did because it represented to me the essence of the \"Beloved\" book.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17160968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17160968", "title": "Benedikt syndrome", "text": "Benedikt syndrome\n\nBenedikt syndrome, also called Benedikt's syndrome or paramedian midbrain syndrome, is a rare type of posterior circulation stroke of the brain, with a range of neurological symptoms affecting the midbrain, cerebellum and other related structures.\n\nIt is characterized by the presence of an oculomotor nerve (CN III) palsy and cerebellar ataxia including tremor and involuntary choreoathetotic movements. Neuroanatomical structures affected include CNIII nucleus, Red nucleus, corticospinal tracts, brachium conjunctivum, and the superior cerebellar peduncle decussation. It has a very similar cause, morphology and signs and symptoms to Weber's syndrome; the main difference between the two being that Weber's is more associated with hemiplegia (i.e. paralysis), and Benedikt's with hemiataxia (i.e. disturbed coordination of movements). It is also similar to Claude's syndrome, but is distinguishable in that Benedikt's has more predominant tremor and choreoathetotic movements while Claude's is more marked by the ataxia.\n\nBenedikt syndrome is caused by a lesion ( infarction, hemorrhage, tumor, or tuberculosis) in the tegmentum of the midbrain and cerebellum. Specifically, the median zone is impaired. It can result from occlusion of the posterior cerebral artery or paramedian penetrating branches of the basilar artery.\n\nDeep brain stimulation may provide relief from some symptoms of Benedikt syndrome, particularly the tremors associated with the disorder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7496620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7496620", "title": "Bonaventure Baron", "text": "Bonaventure Baron\n\nBonaventure Baron, O.F.M. (christened Bartholomew Baron; 1610 – 18 March 1696) was a distinguished Irish Franciscan friar and a noted theologian, philosopher, teacher and writer of Latin prose and verse.\n\nBaron was born at Clonmel, County Tipperary. His mother, one of 14 children, was a sister of the Irish Jesuit priest, Father Ambrose Baron. Franciscan friar and historian Father Luke Wadding was another of Baron's uncles. His brother, Geoffrey acted for the Irish Confederates in their negotiations with the continental rulers.\n\nBartholomew Baron joined the Franciscan community of Clonmel, pursued his studies in philosophy at the Old University of Leuven. Afterwards he proceeded to the Irish College of St Isidore in Rome, founded by his uncle, Father Wadding. Upon the completion of his theological courses, he was appointed professor and devoted himself specially to a defense of the Scotist system then generally assailed. During his stay in Rome he published numerous works on theology, philosophy and history, all listed below. \n\nOrdained in 1634, he took the religious name Bonaventure. Around 1651 he left Rome, and went first to a house of his Order at Schwaz in Tyrol, and then to Salzburg, where he was kindly received by Archbishop Guidobald. He was sent as commissary into Habsburg Hungary (about 1656), was again in Schwaz (1661), went to Paris, taught for some time at Würzburg, where he published a volume of his \"Opuscula\" (1668), taught theology at Lyon in southern France and finally returned to Italy. It is said that representations were made to secure his appointment to the Archbishopric of Cashel, but that he declined the office. He was appointed historiographer in 1676 by Cosmo I de' Medici, Grand-duke of Tuscany and was elected a member of the Academy of Florence.\nHe died on 18 March 1696, and was buried at St Isidore in Rome, where his tomb with the inscription, written by John de Burgo, a rector of the college, still exists. Two contemporary oil paintings of him have come down to us: one is in the Franciscan friary in Clonmel, the other in a Franciscan friary in Dublin. There is also a fresco of Bonaventure in the \"aula\" of St. Isidore's College in Rome.\n\nWhile under the patronage of the Grand Duke he published the \"Trias Tuscia\", in honor of three remarkable religious of Tuscany, and in the same year the \"Orbes Medicei\". \nHis principal works are:\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "49694496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49694496", "title": "Brnjača", "text": "Brnjača\n\nBrnjača (; 1253– 1264) was a Serbian princess, the daughter of King Stefan Uroš I (r. 1243–76) and Queen Helen of Anjou. Her brothers were Stefan Dragutin (r. 1276–82) and Stefan Milutin (r. 1282–1321). \n\nThe oldest depiction of her, when she was ca. 12 years old is in the 1264 fresco of the burial of Queen Anna Dandolo (d. 1258) at the monastery of Sopoćani (the endowment of her father), shown with a low crown, and clothing closed up to the throat, similar to the male clothing, decorated with pearls on piping, although her appearance is anachronistic. She is depicted on a fresco in the narthex of Visoki Dečani dating to ca. 1345, alongside later Nemanjić members Simeon Uroš and Teodora-Evdokija. She is depicted in the Nemanjić family tree fresco of Visoki Dečani, which dates to ca. 1350 and is one of the most notable examples of the Nemanjić family trees. She was a nun, and did not marry. She was buried at the Gradac Monastery (the endowment of her mother), in a tomb below her mother's sarcophagus.\n\nThe Old Serbian spelling of her name, as found on the Visoki Dečani family tree fresco, was . Her name is variously rendered Brnjača (Брњача), Brnča (Брнча), Brnjča (Брњча), Bereniče (Берениче), Prnjača (Прњача), and Prnča (Прнча). Her name is unusual. D. Kostić wrote on the reading of her name, etymological similarities and possible combinations. He noted similarity with the placename Brnjak, and Slavic male name Prnjak, but was also inclined that it was derived from Veronica. M. Purković said that it perhaps was a diminutive of Bernarde or Bernardine. It was earlier believed that \"Brnjača\" was the nickname of her mother (named so due to the main estate of her feudal state, Brnjak).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "149307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149307", "title": "Celera Corporation", "text": "Celera Corporation\n\nCelera is a subsidiary of Quest Diagnostics which focuses on genetic sequencing and related technologies. It was founded in 1998 as a business unit of Applera, spun off into an independent company in 2008, and finally acquired by Quest Diagnostics in 2011.\n\nOriginally headquartered in Rockville, Maryland (relocated to Alameda, California), it was established in May 1998 by PE Corporation (later renamed to Applera), with Dr. J. Craig Venter from The Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR) as its first president. While at TIGR, Venter and Hamilton Smith led the first successful effort to sequence an entire organism's genome, that of the \"Haemophilus influenzae\" bacterium. Celera was formed for the purpose of generating and commercializing genomic information. Its stock is a tracking stock of Applera, along with the tracking stock of Applera's larger Applied Biosystems Group business unit.\n\nCelera sequenced the human genome at a fraction of the cost of the public project, approximately $3 billion of taxpayer dollars versus about $300 million of private funding. However, a significant portion of the human genome had already been sequenced when Celera entered the field, and thus Celera did not incur any costs with obtaining the existing data, which was freely available to the public from GenBank. Celera's use of the shotgun strategy spurred the public HGP to change its own strategy, leading to a rapid acceleration of the public effort.\n\nCritics of initial efforts by Celera Genomics to hold back data from sections of genome they sequenced for commercial exploitation felt that it would retard progress in science as a whole. These critics pointed to the open access policy for gene sequences from the publicly funded Human Genome Project. Later, the company changed their policy and made their sequences available for non-commercial use but set a maximum threshold for amount of sequence data that a researcher could download at any given time.\n\nThe rise and fall of Celera as an ambitious competitor of the Human Genome Project is the main subject of the book \"The Genome War\" by James Shreeve, who followed Venter around for two years in the process of writing the book. A view from the public effort's side is that of Nobel laureate Sir John Sulston in his book \"The Common Thread: A Story of Science, Politics, Ethics and the Human Genome\". Anthropologist Paul Rabinow also based his 2005 book \"A Machine to Make a Future\" on Celera.\n\nEukaryotes:\n\nProkaryotes:\n\n"}
{"id": "54385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54385", "title": "Child sacrifice", "text": "Child sacrifice\n\nChild sacrifice is the ritualistic killing of children in order to please or appease a god or supernatural beings in order to achieve a desired result. As such, it is a form of human sacrifice. The practice has received considerable opposition throughout history, and it has often become a target for those engaged in criticism of religion.\nChild sacrifice is thought to be an extreme extension of the idea that, the more important the object of sacrifice, the more devout the person giving it up is.\n\nArcheologists have found remains of 42 children. It is alleged that these remains were sacrificed to Tlaloc (and a few to Ehécatl, Quetzalcoatl and Huitzilopochtli) in the offerings of the Great Pyramid of Tenochtitlan by the Aztecs of pre-Columbian Mexico. Human sacrifice was an everyday activity in Tenochtitlan and children were not exempt. They, in particular, were offered to Tláloc, the god of rain. Bernardino de Sahagún, a religious man left writings that describe such sacrifices, compiled from the first-hand accounts of natives who had lived in Tenochtitlan in the times before it fell. Hernán Cortés himself also mentioned child sacrifices in his letters to King Carlos I of Spain.\n\nThe Inca culture sacrificed children in a ritual called \"qhapaq hucha\". Their frozen corpses have been discovered in the South American mountaintops. The first of these corpses, a female child who had died from a blow to the skull, was discovered in 1995 by Johan Reinhard. Other methods of sacrifice included strangulation and simply leaving the children, who had been given an intoxicating drink, to lose consciousness in the extreme cold and low-oxygen conditions of the mountaintop, and to die of hypothermia.\n\nIn Maya culture, people believed that supernatural beings had power over their lives and this is one reason that child sacrifice occurred. The sacrifices were essentially to satisfy the supernatural beings. This was done through \"k'ex\", which is an exchange or substitution of something. Through \"k’ex\" infants would substitute more powerful humans. It was thought that supernatural beings would consume the souls of more powerful humans and infants were substituted in order to prevent that. Infants are believed to be good offerings because they have a close connection to the spirit world through liminality. It is also believed that parents in Maya culture would offer their children for sacrifice and depictions of this show that this was a very emotional time for the parents, but they would carry through because they thought the child would continue existing. It is also known that infant sacrifices occurred at certain times. Child sacrifice was preferred when there was a time of crisis and transitional times such as famine and drought.\n\nThere is archaeological evidence of infant sacrifice in tombs where the infant has been buried in urns or ceramic vessels. There have also been depictions of child sacrifice in art. Some art includes pottery and steles as well as references to infant sacrifice in mythology and art depictions of the mythology.\n\nThe Moche of northern Peru practiced mass sacrifices of men and boys.\n\nThe Timoto-Cuicas offered human sacrifices. Until colonial times children sacrifice persisted secretly in Laguna de Urao (Mérida). It were described by the chronicler Juan de Castellanos, who cited that feasts and human sacrifices were done in honour of Icaque, an Andean prehispanic goddess.\n\nReferences in the Tanakh point to an awareness of human sacrifice in the history of ancient Near Eastern practice. The king of Moab gives his firstborn son and heir as a whole burnt offering (\"olah\", as used of the Temple sacrifice). In the book of the prophet Micah, the question is asked, 'Shall I give my firstborn for my sin, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?', and responded to in the phrase, 'He has shown all you people what is good. And what does Yahweh require of you? To act justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with your God.' The Tanakh also implies that the Ammonites offered child sacrifices to Moloch.\n\nIn Leviticus 18:21, 20:3 and Deuteronomy 12:30-31, 18:10, the Torah contains a number of imprecations against and laws forbidding child sacrifice and human sacrifice in general. The Tanakh denounces human sacrifice as barbaric customs of Baal worshippers (e.g. Psalms 106:37).\nJames Kugel argues that the Torah's specifically forbidding child sacrifice indicates that it happened in Israel as well. Mark S. Smith argues that the mention of \"Topeth\" in Isaiah 30:27–33 indicates an acceptance of child sacrifice in the early Jerusalem practices, to which the law in Leviticus 20:2–5 forbidding child sacrifice is a response. Some scholars have stated that at least some Israelites and Judahites believed child sacrifice was a legitimate religious practice.\n\nGenesis relates the binding of Isaac, him to present his son, Isaac, as a sacrifice on Mount Moriah. No reason is given within the text. Abraham agrees to this command without arguing. The story ends with an angel stopping Abraham at the last minute and making Isaac's sacrifice unnecessary by providing a ram, caught in some nearby bushes, to be sacrificed instead. Francesca Stavrakopoulou has speculated that it is possible that the story \"contains traces of a tradition in which Abraham does sacrifice Isaac\". Rabbi A.I. Kook, first Chief Rabbi of Israel, stressed that the climax of the story, commanding Abraham not to sacrifice Isaac, is the whole point: to put an end to the ritual of child sacrifice, which contradicts the morality of a perfect and giving (not taking) monotheistic God. According to Irving Greenberg the story of the binding of Isaac, symbolizes the prohibition to worship God by human sacrifices, at a time when human sacrifices were the norm worldwide.\n\nThe most extensive accounts of child sacrifice in the Hebrew Bible refer to those carried out in Gehenna by two kings of Judah, Ahaz and Manasseh.\n\nIn the Book of Judges, the figure of Jephthah makes a vow to God, saying, \"If you give the Ammonites into my hands, whatever comes out of the door of my house to meet me when I return in triumph from the Ammonites will be the Lord’s, and I will sacrifice it as a burnt offering\" (as worded in the New International Version). Jephthah succeeds in winning a victory, but when he returns to his home in Mizpah he sees his daughter, dancing to the sound of timbrels, outside. After allowing her two months preparation, Judges 11:39 states that Jephthah kept his vow. According to the commentators of the rabbinic Jewish tradition, Jepthah's daughter was not sacrificed, but was forbidden to marry and remained a spinster her entire life, fulfilling the vow that she would be devoted to the Lord. The 1st-century CE Jewish historian Flavius Josephus, however, understood this to mean that Jephthah burned his daughter on Yahweh's altar, whilst pseudo-Philo, late first century CE, wrote that Jephthah offered his daughter as a burnt offering because he could find no sage in Israel who would cancel his vow. In other words, this story of human sacrifice is not an order or requirement by God, but the punishment for those who vowed to sacrifice humans.\n\nNeighbors criticized Carthage for their child sacrifice practices. Plutarch (ca. 46–120 AD), Tertullian, Orosius, and Diodorus Siculus mention this practice; however, Livy and Polybius do not. The ancestors of Carthage, Canaanites, were also mentioned performing child sacrifices in the Hebrew Bible and by some Israelites, at a place called the Tophet (\"roasting place\").\n\nSome of these sources suggest that babies were roasted to death on a heated bronze statue. According to Diodorus Siculus, \"There was in their city a bronze image of Cronus extending its hands, palms up and sloping toward the ground, so that each of the children when placed thereon rolled down and fell into a sort of gaping pit filled with fire.\"(Bib. Hist. 20.14.6)\n\nSites within Carthage and other Phoenician centers revealed the remains of young children in large numbers; some historians interpret this as evidence for frequent and prominent child sacrifice to the god Baal-hamon.\n\nThe accuracy of such stories is disputed by some modern historians and archaeologists. At Carthage a large cemetery exists that combines the bodies of both very young children and small animals, and those who assert child sacrifice have argued that if the animals were sacrificed, then so too were the children. Recent archaeology however, has produced a detailed breakdown of the ages of the buried children and, based on this and especially on the presence of prenatal individuals – that is, still births – it is also argued that this site is consistent with burials of children who had died of natural causes in a society that had a high infant mortality rate, as Carthage is assumed to have had. That is, the data support the view that Tophets were cemeteries for those who died shortly before or after birth, regardless of the cause of death.\n\nGreek, Roman and Israelite writers refer to Phoenician child sacrifice. However, some historians have disputed this interpretation, suggesting instead that these were resting places for children miscarried or who died in infancy. Skeptics suggest that the bodies of children found in Carthaginian and Phoenician cemeteries were merely the cremated remains of children that died naturally. Sergio Ribichini has argued that the Tophet was \"a child necropolis designed to receive the remains of infants who had died prematurely of sickness or other natural causes, and who for this reason were \"offered\" to specific deities and buried in a place different from the one reserved for the ordinary dead\". The few Carthaginian texts which have survived make absolutely no mention of child sacrifice, though most of them pertain to matters entirely unrelated to religion, such as the practice of agriculture.\n\nAccording to Stager and Wolff, in 1984, there was a consensus among scholars that Carthaginian children were sacrificed by their parents, who would make a vow to kill the next child if the gods would grant them a favor: for instance that their shipment of goods were to arrive safely in a foreign port. They placed their children alive in the arms of a bronze statue of:\n\nLater commentators have compared the accounts of child sacrifice in the Old Testament with similar ones from Greek and Latin sources speaking of the offering of children by fire as sacrifices in the Punic city of Carthage, which was a Phoenician colony. Cleitarchus in his \"Scholia\" of Plato's Republic mentions the practice:\n\nThis reference also seems to clarify that the statue itself was not made to move by the flames, but rather the burnt and shriveled body of the victim was contorted by them.\n\nDiodorus Siculus too references this practice:\n\nPlutarch in \"De superstitione\" also mentions the practice in Carthage:\nThese all mention the burning of children as offerings to Cronus or Saturn, that is to Ba'al Hammon, the chief god of Carthage (see Interpretatio Graeca and Interpretatio Romana for clarification).\n\nClaims concerning Moloch and child sacrifice may have been made for negative-propaganda effect. The Romans and Israelites describe child sacrifice as a practice of their \"evil\" enemies. Some scholars think that, after the Romans finally defeated Carthage and totally destroyed the city, they engaged in postwar propaganda to make their arch-enemies seem cruel and less civilized. The question of whether Phoenician child sacrifice was real or a myth continues to be discussed in academic circles, including the work of M'hamed Hassine Fantar.\nThe Quran documents pagan Arabians sacrificing their children to idols.\n\nThe Minoan civilization, located in ancient Crete, is widely accepted as the first civilization in Europe. An expedition to Knossos by the British School of Athens, led by Peter Warren, excavated a mass grave of sacrifices, particularly children, and unearthed evidence of cannibalism.\n\nAdditionally, Rodney Castleden uncovered a sanctuary near Knossos where the remains of a 17-year-old were found sacrificed.\n\nAt Woodhenge, a young child was found buried with its skull split by a weapon. This has been interpreted by the excavators as a child sacrifice, as have other human remains.\n\nThe Ver Sacrum (\"A Sacred Spring\") was a custom by which a Greco-Roman city would devote and sacrifice everything born in the spring, whether animal or human, to a god, in order to relieve some calamity.\n\nThe murder of children for body parts with which to make muti, for purposes of witchcraft, still occurs in South Africa. Muti murders occur throughout South Africa, especially in rural areas. Traditional healers or witch doctors often grind up body parts and combine them with roots, herbs, seawater, animal parts, and other ingredients to prepare potions and spells for their clients.\n\nIn the early 21st century Uganda has experienced a revival of child sacrifice. In spite of government attempts to downplay the issue, an investigation by the BBC into human sacrifice in Uganda found that ritual killings of children are more common than Ugandan authorities admit. There are many indicators that politicians and politically connected wealthy businessmen are involved in sacrificing children in practice of traditional religion, which has become a commercial enterprise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "332122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=332122", "title": "Dark Judges", "text": "Dark Judges\n\nThe Dark Judges are recurring villains in the \"Judge Dredd\" science fiction comic strip in the UK comic \"2000 AD\". They also appear in the 2003 computer game \"\". They are Judge Death, Judge Fire, Judge Fear, and Judge Mortis. Later storylines added the \"Sisters of Death\" (Phobia and Nausea) to their ranks. Former Judge Kraken was also a Dark Judge for a brief time during the \"Necropolis\" story.\n\nThe Dark Judges were originally a group of four lawkeepers from a parallel dimension. They were led by Judge Death, who had determined that all crime was committed by the living - thus, by his logic, all life was a crime. The other three were slavishly devoted to him and his philosophy, and the four went around killing people on whatever justification they could find (Judge Fire sentenced a whole school to death for noise pollution). The society of the parallel universe they inhabited placed very little value on human life and many inhabitants were sadistic and violent, but even by the standards of their people the Dark Judges were vicious.\n\nThings changed when Death encountered Phobia and Nausea (the future \"Sisters of Death\") in a cave. The Sisters were death cultists and mass murderers with supernatural powers, and Death fell in love; the three of them committed acts on victims that he admitted sickened even him. With their help, he and his acolytes were able to become undead beings, thus being 'pure' to judge without hypocrisy. The Sisters would themselves become ethereal beings with hideous magical powers. The Dark Judges subsequently murdered the entire population of their world.\n\nDimension-travelling visitors chanced upon the now 'Deadworld' and found the Dark Judges. After 'judging' (i.e., killing) them and taking their dimension jumping warp devices, Judge Death travelled to Mega-City One, against the opinions of his colleagues, in order to 'dispense justice'. Death was eventually defeated by the combined efforts of Judges Dredd and Anderson, his body having been destroyed, and his spirit form held inside Judge Anderson, herself encased in the miracle plastic Boing on display in the Justice Department's Hall of Heroes.\n\nHaving sensed Death's peril, his comrades Fear, Fire and Mortis crossed the dimension warp to rescue him. Released from imprisonment and with a new body created, the four Dark Judges continued their 'judgement' upon Mega-City One claiming thousands of victims. Dredd and Anderson intervened, and pursued the Dark Judges back to Deadworld using a Dimension Jump Globe liberated from the Dark Judges. There, the spirits of the Dark Judges' millions of victims flowed through Anderson and seemingly extinguished their spirits forever.\n\nHowever, the Dark Judges were not destroyed but merely weakened, and four years later, Judge Anderson was duped into returning to Deadworld, where she was forced to resurrect them. Armed with teleporter technologies, the four returned to Mega-City One, leaving Anderson for dead. Anderson survived, however, and used the dimension warp technology against the Dark Judges, consigning them to limbo, the void between dimensions. This is where they were to remain for the next few years.\n\nFollowing Judge Dredd's resignation and his replacement by the ex-Judge Kraken (recounted in the Judge Dredd stories \"Tale of the Dead Man\" and \"Countdown to Necropolis\" respectively), the sisters of Death - Phobia and Nausea - used their powers to influence Kraken and rescue the Dark Judges from Limbo. With the Mega-City One judge force under their control, the Dark Judges created Necropolis - the city of the dead, killing 60 million citizens. Judges Dredd, Anderson and Chief Judge McGruder, together with a handful of cadet judges, returned via The Undercity to defeat them - returning the Sisters of Death to Deadworld, imprisoning Fear, Fire and Mortis within secure containment, and executing Kraken, who had become a fifth Dark Judge.\n\nJudge Death eluded capture by hiding in the burial pits of the Cursed Earth and departed for another dimension, but was eventually captured by Dredd with the aid of Batman (see \"Judgement on Gotham\"). Judge Death would escape several other times, with the most significant being when the Joker (see below) dimension-jumped to Mega-City One and freed the four prisoners when they were being transferred to a more secure prison. They entered a sealed hedonist community and slaughtered their way through it before Dredd, Anderson, and Batman could stop them again.\n\nIn 2124, Death was released again - after a series of child murders to bring out Anderson, he beat her into a coma so she couldn't track him, infected her with the supernatural Half-Life virus, and escaped into the Cursed Earth. He then went on a killing spree and searched for weapons of mass destruction, finally taking out Las Vegas before seemingly being destroyed by the angry ghosts of his victims. However, the Sisters of Death - now with three extra members - attacked again in 2127, striking blocks with poltergeist activity and plagues before Psi-Division drove them back; and during Death's time in the Cursed Earth, he created another undead killer named Mordechai to carry on after him.\n\nIn 2134, during a major Soviet-backed attack on Mega-City One, Soviet sleeper agent Judge Haldane used a forged warrant to enter the Dark Judge containment vault and open the containment vessels. He stole the imprisoned Fear, Fire, and Mortis, and with another sleeper agent he gave the Dark Judges physical form again. (They promptly killed the agents, to Haldane's horror.) They were later captured by genius serial killer PJ Maybe.\n\nLater Death was freed from Hell by the Sisters of Death. He entered the home of PJ Maybe and rescued his brothers. They escaped from Earth on a spaceship, the \"Mayflower\", and killed most of the passengers and crew. They were pursued by Dredd and Anderson, who managed to defeat them and left them stranded in space.\n\nThe Dark Judges are undead, and as such, cannot be conventionally killed. Their true forms are incorporeal spirits that must inhabit corpses in order to cause physical harm. This involves obtaining recently deceased cadavers, which are subsequently processed by machinery that produces \"dead fluids.\" These fluids bring the corpses to \"full ripeness,\" prefatory for the spirits to inhabit and animate. The incarnate Dark Judges are emaciated, zombie-like humanoids with sharp claws that frequently serve for them to injure their victims. All four speak with a hiss.\n\nOnce incarnated, the Dark Judges don uniforms (or \"robes of office\") which reflect their identities. The uniforms are variants of the traditional judge uniforms, with specific modifications based upon the judges' personalities.\n\nJudge Death wears a helmet similar to that of a traditional Judge, with a modified visor resembling a portcullis. His mouth is pulled into a rictus. In place of the Judges' eagle-shaped shoulder pauldrons, Death sports a pterodactyl on his right shoulder; his left shoulder and elbow pads are festooned with bones. His jacket is fastened with crude stitches rather than a zipper, and his badge and belt buckle are each shaped like a human skull with extended fangs, the latter is also adorned with bat wings. Death most often kills his victims by reaching directly into their chests (in an intangible state) and squeezing their hearts until they burst, without ever breaking the skin.\nJudge Fear is an imposing figure who wears a black great helm accented with large, bat-like wings. When passing judgement, he opens his helmet's faceplate and frightens the accused to death with whatever lies within, whilst reciting his catch phrase, \"Gaze into the face of Fear!\" The actual face under the helmet has only been revealed twice: once as a mass of eyeballs, and on another occasion as several grotesque mandibles. No explanation has been given as to whether these monstrosities are indicative of Fear's physical face, or if they are simply manifestations of his victims' fears. Fear sports an assortment of tools on his belt, notably miniature bear traps, which he is known to throw at his enemies in order to immobilize them; and an enormous padlock which he uses to secure his victims' potential exit routes. His belt buckle is a shrunken head. In \"Die laughing\" the shrunken head was revealed to be an explosive weapon, similar in effect to a hand grenade, when Judge Fear used it in an unsuccessful attempt to kill Batman. He wears a heavy black cape with large, bear trap shoulder pauldrons. In Progs. 421 and 423, Judge Fear is seen to exhibit powers similar to Judge Death's \"phasing\" ability, thrusting his hands through victims' bodies.\n\nJudge Fire is immersed head-to-toe in ethereal flame. He wears no helmet, and instead has a human skull for a head. He wields a flame-spewing trident. He earned the name \"Judge Fire\" when he was still alive, after he burned down a school for violating noise regulations.\n\nJudge Mortis is in a perpetual state of disintegration, and his touch can cause spontaneous decay at a rapid rate. His head is a sheep skull and he has a bony tail. His uniform's right shoulder pauldron is a bird skeleton, and his left shoulder is protected by a perforated mantle. His badge is a stylized sheep skull with his name emblazoned in wood. Like Fire and Fear, Mortis spent his early years as a rookie Judge at Law School, Deadworld's equivalent to Mega-City One's Academy of Law, and graduated after Sidney De'ath. He developed an admiration for Sidney's methods and beliefs, and shares his comrades' zeal for passing arbitrary death sentences. He is sometimes employed by Judge Death to prepare the Dark Judges' host bodies.\n\n\nThe undead incarnations of Nausea and Phobia normally only appear as spirits, although they do appear in their mortal form in the Judge Death prequel story, \"Young Death: Boyhood of a Superfiend\".\n\n\nIn February 2014, IDW announced that nine new Dark Judges were to premiere in a forthcoming Judge Dredd title. The IDW Dredd is usually considered non-canonical. The new judges were:\n\n\nThe \"Dreams of Deadworld\" arc in the September 2015 2000 ADs introduced dark judges that existed on Deadworld prior to a coup by Death and his three lieutenants. They were:\n\n\nFor a very brief time, DC comic's \"The Joker\" character was a Dark Judge, in the original graphic novel \"Die Laughing\" (1998). The Joker helped free the original Dark Judges in exchange for immortality. He received his payment by having his spirit merged into a corpse (which was not quite the \"immortality\" he'd sought), creating \"Judge Joker\". As a Dark Judge, the Joker could kill masses of people with his laugh, which caused human heads to explode.\n\nHis tenure was a brief one, as he quickly became bored with slaughter simply for its own sake and did not share the original Dark Judge's fanatical zeal for their \"sacred mission\" of purging all life. The Joker was restored to his normal, mortal form upon returning to Gotham City via a defective dimensional jump device.\n\nThe Judges of Deadworld wore similar uniforms to those of Mega-City One judges, coloured black with red trim; and a pterodactyl device on the right shoulderpad. They were brutal and a law unto themselves: a recruitment poster exhorted candidates to join the Judges and offered such incentives as \"Beat people up. Kill anyone you like (within reason). Good rates of pay. Plenty of graft. Vicious nature a plus. LUNCHEON VOUCHERS.\" Unsurprisingly they easily attracted psychopaths such as the future Dark Judges; and in their last days applied the death penalty for even the slightest of misdemeanors. When the Dark Judges seized power, the Deadworld Judges were inspired to join them and assisted in the massacre of the entire population before being killed themselves.\n\nDeadworld, despite having a Judge system and having some degree of future tech, did not possess City Blocks or most of the features the Mega-Cities do, instead being very much like 20th Century Earth. Dreaming was considered abnormal and dangerous, and those who dreamt repeatedly were often Psis, who were rounded up by the Judges. Instead of the Academy of Law, they had Law School overseen by a Principal. Trainee Judges would spend a day in court, sentencing minor offenders (a young Death would be told that it would be \"fine\" to sentence a minor offender to death and borderline acceptable to kill two or three).\n\n\nAnother version of the Dark Judges appear in \"Dredd: The Dead World\", a comic strip sequel to the 2012 film \"Dredd\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48266449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48266449", "title": "Death of Lucas Leonard", "text": "Death of Lucas Leonard\n\nIn October 2015, 19-year-old Lucas Leonard from Chadwicks, New York, died from injuries sustained during an hours-long 'counseling' session at his church, the Word of Life Christian Church in New Hartford, Oneida County, New York. Both he and his brother (who survived, albeit with severe injuries), were repeatedly beaten by parishioners during the session, and among those indicted in connection with the beating were Leonard's own parents and older sister.\n\nThe Chadwicks Word of Life Christian Church reportedly started out as an ordinary Pentecostal church before becoming ever more cult-like after pastor Jerry Irwin retook control and began shaming and controlling other members. One of Irwin's relatives accused Lucas of having been involved in witchcraft and voodoo, but these accusations were refuted by police. Authorities have stated that the torture was instead prompted by Lucas' desire to leave the church.\n\nOn the night of October 11, 2015, following a Sunday church meeting, Leonard was allegedly subject to an all-night counseling session in the church attended by about 30 parishioners, including his parents and older sister. The meeting was reportedly held after Leonard expressed a desire to leave the church. Lucas and his 17-year-old brother, Christopher, were allegedly beaten continuously. According to witness testimony, the session lasted 14 hours and ended when the parishioners thought Lucas was dead. Lucas died in hospital the next day. Autopsy results revealed \"multiple contusions from blunt-force trauma to the torso and extremities\", including blows to the genital area.\n\nA grand jury handed down indictments to Leonard's parents, Bruce and Deborah Leonard, for first-degree manslaughter; it also indicted four other church members, including Leonard's older sister, Sarah Ferguson. Animals subsequently rescued from Lucas' parents' house were found to have been living in neglect, and the house was foul-smelling and full of garbage.\n\nNeighbors described the church as isolated from the local community and as a cult, with one saying that \"church members used to build fires on the roofs, and there was chanting and weird rituals\", and that dogs howled all night inside the church but were never seen outside. Cult expert Rick Ross said \"This is an old-school group...It’s typical in many ways. They’re very isolated, they've cocooned their members and homeschooled the children. Besides a web site to sell pedigree yorkies, they were very isolated. That’s a common characteristic in cults to make sure they are the only ones influencing the member’s judgements.\" A former member said that parents were routinely encouraged to beat their children as punishment for getting bad grades.\n\nFollowing the incident, the pastor of the unrelated Word Of Life Assembly of God Church in Baldwinsville, New York, began receiving threatening phone calls from people confusing his church with the one in Chadwicks. The Chadwicks church, despite being Pentecostal, is not affiliated with Assembly of God or any other denomination, and is not overseen by any larger organization.\n\nThe townspeople held a prayer vigil outside the church on October 20. The organizers of the prayer vigil also called for Word of Life to be shut down.\n\nLucas's surviving brother, Christopher Leonard, began testifying in court starting on October 21. He said that during the beating, he was punched in the stomach, then struck on the genitals and other parts of his body with a \"whip\" made from an electrical cord. Later on, he was forced to wear ear plugs and ear muffs, and to sit in a corner. He said the church's pastor, Tiffany Irwin, was responsible for organizing the counseling session during which the beating took place. When he saw his brother lying motionless on the floor, Christopher attempted to give him CPR but stopped once he realized Lucas was dead.\n\nOn October 23, a family court hearing was held to determine who should have custody of the Leonards' seven other underage children, aged between 2 and 15.\n\nAs of January 9, 2017 the disposition of the cases against the nine people involved on the assault on Lucas Leonard are as follows:\n\nBruce Leonard, the father, who whipped both boys during the session pleaded guilty to felony assault was sentenced to 10 years in state prison.\n\nDeborah Leonard, the mother, who whipped them during the session pleaded guilty to felony assault, and was sentenced to five years in state prison.\n\nOn September 1, 2016 half sister Sarah Ferguson was sentenced to 25 years in prison after being convicted in July 2016 of manslaughter and assault.\n\nPastor Tiffanie Irwin, age 29, who called for the counseling session and oversaw its organization was sentenced on Dec. 19, 2016 to 12 years in state prison for manslaughter.\n\nJoseph Irwin was sentenced on Dec. 19 to eight years in prison for gang assault.\n\nDavid Morey was sentenced on Jan. 9, 2017 to five years in prison for assault.\n\nLinda Morey who pulled the power cord out of the closet was sentenced on Jan. 9 to five years in prison for assault.\n\nTraci Irwin, 50, and Daniel Irwin, 25, both pleaded guilty to unlawful imprisonment. Traci Irwin, who pleaded guilty to two counts of unlawful imprisonment in the first degree, has been sentenced to one year for each count. Daniel Irwin received two years in jail for his role in the death of Lucas Leonard.\n"}
{"id": "11899236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11899236", "title": "Diallel cross", "text": "Diallel cross\n\nA diallel cross is a mating scheme used by plant and animal breeders, as well as geneticists, to investigate the genetic underpinnings of quantitative traits.\n\nIn a full diallel, all parents are crossed to make hybrids in all possible combinations. Variations include half diallels with and without parents, omitting reciprocal crosses. Full diallels require twice as many crosses and entries in experiments, but allow for testing for maternal and paternal effects. If such \"reciprocal\" effects are assumed to be negligible, then a half diallel without reciprocals can be effective. \n\nCommon analysis methods utilize general linear models to identify heterotic groups, estimate general or specific combining ability, interactions with testing environments and years, or estimates of additive, dominant, and epistatic genetic effects and genetic correlations. \n\nThere are four main types of diallel mating design:\n"}
{"id": "9917025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9917025", "title": "Digital strategy", "text": "Digital strategy\n\nA digital strategy is a form of strategic management and a business answer or response to a digital question, often best addressed as part of an overall business strategy. A digital strategy is often characterized by the application of new technologies to existing business activity and/or a focus on the enablement of new digital capabilities to their business (such as those created by the Information Age and often as a result of advancements in digital technologies such as computers, data, telecommunications, Internet, etc.). As is the case with its business strategy parent, a digital strategy can be formulated and implemented through a variety of different approaches. Formulation often includes the process of specifying an organization's vision, goals, opportunities and related activities in order to maximize the business benefits of digital initiatives to an organization. These can range from an enterprise focus, which considers the broader opportunities and risks digital can create and often includes customer intelligence, collaboration, new product/market exploration, sales and service optimization, enterprise technology architectures and processes, innovation and governance; to more marketing and customer-focused efforts such as web sites, mobile, eCommerce, social, site and search engine optimization, and advertising.\n\nThe digital strategy is part of the business strategy and experts maintain that it cannot be effective or successful if built independently. It is argued that it represents how the business strategy is influenced by leveraging digital resources to create differential value. In the process, it reshapes traditional organizational strategies into modular, distributed, cross-functional, and global business processes.\n\nThere, are numerous approaches to conducting digital strategy, but at their core, all go through four steps:\n\nWithin each of those stages, a number of techniques and analyses may be employed.\n\nIncludes one-on-one interviews, group interviews and workshops with a company's senior management, marketing and sales, operations and service stakeholders with a goal of understanding the business strategy, challenges and opportunities, products, organization, processes, supply chain and vendors, distributors, customers, and competitive landscape, as well as the potential role of their online assets.\n\nIncludes evaluations of a company's main competitors and potential substitutes with the goal of understanding a company's strengths and weaknesses relative to their competitors and potential substitutes. While this often includes steps found in traditional marketing competitor analysis, such as products, prices, etc. Competitor analysis includes two unique items:\n\nAn analysis of a company's financial data (which may include everything from public financial statements to private ERP data) with the goal of understanding the financial impact (positive and negative) that certain changes would have on a company.\n\nASSIMPLER Blueprinting - The Business Blueprinting of the organization is designed based on the ASSIMPLER framework. ASSIMPLER stands for Availability, Scalability, Security, Interoperability, Maintainability, Performance, Low cost of ownership, Extendability and Reliability - applied to business services and processes. The framework helps model the business expectations and challenges to be addressed through the Digital Strategy.\n\nIncludes one-on-one interviews and focus groups with a company's external stakeholders, with a goal of understanding external stakeholders behaviours, needs, goals and perceptions of the company and their industry both in the broadest business context as well as specifically online. In addition to standard marketing strategy methodologies and questions (quantitative and qualitative), external stakeholder interviews for Digital Strategy may include usability testing, an analysis of how effectively external stakeholders can use the online assets developed by a company for their intended purposes. In digital strategy this is used to uncover usability barriers that may prevent the online vision being achieved.\n\nAn analysis of external stakeholder behaviors in their environment, for example: field observations of shoppers in a store. In addition to standard ethnographic research, digital strategy research may include video recording of an external stakeholder using their computers or specific computer applications or web sites.\n\nAn analysis of the usage patterns of a company's online assets with the goal of better understanding external stakeholder behavior as well as identifying strengths and weakness of the company's current online offerings. This may include understanding how many people are visiting a web site, what are the most popular pages, what are the most popular paths, where are people coming from, where do they drop off, how long do they stay, etc.\n\nA specific methodology for web analytics where the company's online assets are modeled as a sales funnel, with a visit or impression representing a new lead, a certain page or action in the web site considered a conversion (such as a user hitting the purchase confirmation page) and specific pages in the web site representing specific stages of the sales funnel. The goal of the analysis is to provide insight into the overall conversion rate as well as the key weak points of the funnel (the stages in which the largest percentages of users drop out of the funnel). This may also involve analysis of a company's search engine optimization situation and changes in online traffic pathways.\n\nAn analysis of a company's customer databases and information repositories with the goal of segmenting customers into homogeneous groups across one or more dimensions of behavior, demographics, value, product or marketing message affinity, etc. In digital strategy this often includes the online customer registration database which companies use to provide access to their customer specific, protected areas.\n\nAn analysis of a customer's behavior (such as their purchase or service behavior) that looks across all of the different channels, in which customers interact with a company's products or information. There are lots of different ways to do this; a representative example would be, a company focuses on the customer purchase process (how a customer becomes aware of a product, how a customer develops the intent to purchase a product, and how a customer actually purchases the product). The analysis would look at which channels (for example: phone, catalog, retail store, web site, 3rd party search engine, etc.) a customer uses at which stage of the purchase process, attempting to understand why each channel is used, each channel's relative attribution and evaluating the company's strengths or weaknesses in that particular channel for the particular stage of the process.\n\nAn approach to the collection of external stakeholder feedback in a quantitative manner from a large population. In digital strategy, surveys may be used to validate or invalidate key questions raised in more qualitative exercises such as external stakeholder interviews and focus groups. Depending on the breadth of the survey population and the degree of variation within the population, survey results may be segmented to form homogeneous groups across one or more dimensions of behavior, demographics, value, product or marketing message affinity, etc. Surveys are often conducted online using web surveys, e-mail lists, or 3rd party panels, although phone surveys or other offline methods may sometimes be used when there are questions as to the online savviness of a particular target population.\n\nA spreadsheet with supporting documentation that quantifies the investments and returns over time, resulting from the execution of the online strategy. The Business plan also defines the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that will be used to measure and evaluate the success of the online strategy.\n\nA design of a technical architecture which will meet the needs of the business vision and conform to the business plan and roadmap. This is often done as a gap analysis where the current technical architecture is assessed. A future technical architecture, which meets the needs of the online vision, is designed. The gaps between the current state and future state are identified, and a series of initiatives or projects to fill those gaps are developed and sequenced.\n\nSimilar to a technical assessment, organizational and process assessments look at the changes that need to be made to an organization and its processes in order to achieve the online vision. They may involve a series of business process reengineering projects focused on the areas of an organization most affected by the online initiatives.\n\nA way of prioritizing various initiatives by comparing their cost of implementation with their expected business benefits. This is often done by creating a two by two matrix where cost of implementation runs along the x-axis (from high cost to low cost) and expected business benefit runs along the y-axis, from low benefit to high benefit. Individual initiatives or projects are then plotted on the matrix in terms of their calculated costs and benefits. Priorities are then determined according to which projects will provide the greatest benefit for the lowest cost.\n\nA plan detailing the allocation of media spending across online media (such as search engine marketing, banner advertising, and affiliate marketing) usually as part of the customer acquisition or retention elements of the digital strategy. Since the late 2000s, social media has become increasingly important in engaging with customers both for marketing and customer support purposes, especially benefiting smaller businesses.\n\nGraphical representations or an outline of key ideas or processes of the digital strategy. These are often created in order to better communicate a key concept or to build excitement among stakeholders when building consensus or socializing a digital strategy.\n\nA high-level project plan which details the durations and dependencies of all the initiatives in the digital strategy. The roadmap will often include checkpoints to assess the progress and success of the digital strategy, over time.\n\nA description of the key performance indicators used to measure the effectiveness of the digital strategy as well as the process for collecting and sharing this information. The measurement plan usually covers the financial, operational, and e-business metrics and their relationships.\n\nThe organizational structure, roles, and process description of the operational entity that will manage the initiatives in a digital strategy. The governance model describes who is responsible for what, how decisions are made, how issues are escalated, and how information on the performance of the projects is communicated within the organization.\n\nAs of 2007, a trend in digital strategy is the use of personas as a framework for using customer information to prioritize online initiatives. Personas are character sketches which represent a typical member of one customer segment and highlights their needs, goals and behaviors. Because it is representative of a customer segment, it allows decision makers to prioritize various features based on the needs of the segment. Because it is a character sketch, it is sometimes easier for decision makers to internalize the key needs of the segment than it would be by reading large quantities of information. A typical approach is to create the segment based on customer analysis such as customer interviews, ethnographic research, and statistical surveys. Then assemble key decision makers or stakeholders, present the findings of the personas, and use them to kick start a brainstorming session around different online initiatives which can meet the personas needs and goals.\n\nHistorically, execution of a business or digital strategy is done as a big bang, with large initiatives such as site redesigns and transactional systems taking 6–12 months to develop and often an additional 6–12 months before they deliver any results. As of 2007, a trend has emerged where companies adopt a more iterative approach to rolling out their strategies, one which leverages a series of smaller tests, which are carefully measured and analyzed and used to modify or optimize the digital strategy. An example of this test-measure-optimize-scale approach is that a company might take some key pages on their site and test a number of versions of those pages with different marketing messages, design approaches, user experience optimizations, navigation optimizations, and even new features and functions using a multivariate or A/B test. The company would then identify the page which had the best combination of changes in terms of some key business metric (such as conversion), analyzing the results to understand which changes were most instrumental in affecting the high conversion rate, and applying those learnings to future pages and future tests (conversion optimization). \n\nThe advantage of this approach is that in the long run, it tends to be more successful in delivering business results, because each step is measured and adjusted for. In addition, it tends to favor smaller (less risky, less expensive) steps rather than larger (more risky, more expensive) initiatives before getting the payback. The disadvantage is that over time this approach tends to converge on a solution (local optimum), not necessarily the best solution (global optimum) that might have been reached if a company starts from scratch instead of building each step on the previous one. Another disadvantage is that although this solution tends to favor smaller, more incremental changes, there is often a larger up front cost to setting up all the measurement systems and staffing a company with the right analysts and change processes to react to these tests in a timely and effective manner. As a result, companies often adopt a mix of big bang efforts augmented by some smaller, more iterative efforts as part of their overall strategy. A person who is primarily focused on digital strategy may be referred to as a digital architect or digital strategist and a person who executes a digital strategy may be referred to as a digital marketing engineer.\n\nThere are also several challenges when developing and implementing a digital strategy. This include human factors, particularly knowledge, skills, and attitudes, which impede full engagement.\n\nThe two terms, \"digital strategy\" and \"online strategy\", tend to be thrown out somewhat interchangeably. However, there is some consensus around the differences between digital strategy and online strategy. According to some, digital strategy refers to the strategy a company takes to become a digital company, where digital connotes deeper interactions with their customers, more customized and personalized offerings and interactions, data driven decision making, and organizational models and processes that are more reactive to changes in the company's environment. Online is a subset of digital, as there may be digital assets which are not online. In this context, a company may use the term online strategy to be limited to the development of plans to deploy their online assets to maximize business results and digital strategy to be the more transformative step of changing the organization, although the latter is also referred as a digital transformation strategy. \n\n"}
{"id": "29411462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29411462", "title": "Dybbuk box", "text": "Dybbuk box\n\nThe dybbuk box, or dibbuk box (in the Hebrew language known as , or \"Kufsat Dibbuk\"), is a wine cabinet which is said to be haunted by a dybbuk. A dybbuk is a restless, usually malicious, spirit believed to be able to haunt and even possess the living. The box gained notoriety when it was auctioned on eBay with an accompanying horror story written by Kevin Mannis, and is the original inspiration for the 2012 film \"The Possession\".\nIf a dybbuk box is burned, the box will take a long time to burn, but as it is burned, the dybbuk is fully released and cannot be returned to the box.\n\nThe term \"dybbuk box\" was first created and used by Kevin Mannis to describe a wine cabinet in the item information for an eBay auction and as the subject of his original story describing paranormal events which he attributed to the box. Mannis, a writer and creative professional by trade, owned a small antiques and furniture refinishing business in Portland, Oregon at the time. According to Mannis' story, he bought the box at an estate sale in 2001. It had belonged to a survivor of the Holocaust in German-occupied Poland named Havaleh, who had escaped to Spain and purchased it there before her immigration to the United States. Havaleh's granddaughter told Mannis that the box had been bought in Spain after the Holocaust. Upon hearing that the box was a family heirloom, Mannis offered to give the box back to the family but the granddaughter insisted that he take it. \"We don't want it,\" she said. She told him the box had been kept in her grandmother's sewing room and was never opened because a dybbuk was said to live inside it.\n\nUpon opening the box, Mannis wrote that he found that it contained two 1920s pennies, a lock of blonde hair bound with cord, a lock of black/brown hair bound with cord, a small statue engraved with the Hebrew word \"Shalom\", a small golden wine goblet, one dried rose bud, and a single candle holder with four octopus-shaped legs.\n\nNumerous owners of the box have reported that strange phenomena accompany it. In his story, Mannis wrote that he experienced a series of horrific nightmares shared with other people while they were in possession of the box or when they stayed at his home while he had it. His mother suffered a stroke on the same day he gave her the box as a birthday present—October 31. Every owner of the box has reported that smells of cat urine or jasmine flowers and nightmares involving an old hag accompany the box. Iosif Neitzke, a student at Truman State University in Kirksville, Missouri and the last person to auction the box on eBay, claimed that the box caused lights to burn out in his house and his hair to fall out. Jason Haxton, Director of the Museum of Osteopathic Medicine in Kirksville, Missouri, had been following Neitzke's blogs regarding the box and when he was ready to be rid of the box Neitzke sold it to Haxton. Haxton wrote \"The Dibbuk Box\", and claimed that he subsequently developed strange health problems, including hives, coughing up blood, and \"head-to-toe welts\". Haxton consulted with rabbis (Jewish religious leaders) to try to figure out a way to seal the dybbuk in the box again. Apparently successful, he took the freshly resealed box and hid it at a secret location, which he would not reveal. He later donated the box to Zak Bagans of Ghost Adventures to display in his museum.\n\nSkeptic Chris French, head of the Anomalistic Psychology Research Unit at Goldsmiths' College, told an interviewer he believed that the box's owners were \"already primed to be looking out for bad stuff. If you believe you have been cursed, then inevitably you explain the bad stuff that happens in terms of what you perceive to be the cause. Put it like this: I would be happy to own this object.\" The term is now used to refer to any box holding a dybbuk.\n\nThe cabinet has the Shema carved into the back of it. Its dimensions are 12.5\" × 7.5\" × 16.25\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11762174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11762174", "title": "Ecological self", "text": "Ecological self\n\nEcological self is central to the school of \"Experiential Deep Ecology\", which, based on the work of Norwegian philosopher Arne Næss, argues that through the process of self-actualisation, one transcends the nations of the individuated \"egoic\" self and arrives at a position of an ecological self. So long as one is working within the narrower concept of self, Næss argues, environmentally responsible behaviour is a form of altruism, a \"doing good for the other\", which historically has been a precarious ethical basis, usually involved in exhorting others to \"be good\". Næss argues that in his Ecosophy, the enlargement of the ego-self to the eco-self results in environmentally responsible behaviour as a form of self-interest.\n\nWarwick Fox argued that Næss's philosophy was based upon a variety of \"transpersonal ecology\" in which self-interest was firmly embedded within the interest of the ecommunity ecosphere of which the self was eternally embedded\n\nAs deep ecologist John Seed has stated, \"Deep ecology critiques the idea that we are the crown of creation, the measure of all being: that the world is a pyramid with humanity rightly on top, merely a resource, and that nature has instrumental value only\". The concept of the Ecological Self goes beyond anthropocentrism, which, by contrast locates human concerns as the exclusive source of all value. It draws upon the Land Ethic of Aldo Leopold. Leopold argued that within conventional ethics, the land itself was considered only as property, occupying a role analogous to slavery in earlier societies that permitted the ownership of people. By comparison a land ethic enlarges the boundary of moral concern to include \"soils, waters, plants, and animals, or collectively: the land\". The basis of such a non-anthropocentric ethic, according to Leopold was that \"A thing is right when it tends to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the biotic community. It is wrong when it tends otherwise.\"\nLike Thomas Berry and Brian Swimme, ecological philosopher Freya Mathews argues that in considering the ecological self, we need to look beyond the present to the \"deep time\" of ages past, in the evolution of life and the creation of the cosmos, in order to consider the real roots of human consciousness. Experiential deep ecologist Joanna Macy speaks of the Ecological Self in her book \"World as Lover, World as Self\", and uses the concept in her work on \"Deep Time\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17612727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17612727", "title": "Ed Daily", "text": "Ed Daily\n\nEdward M. Daily (September 7, 1862 – October 21, 1891), was a Major League Baseball player. He played seven seasons in the majors, from until , for the Philadelphia Phillies, Washington Nationals, Columbus Solons, Brooklyn Gladiators, New York Giants, Louisville Colonels, and Washington Statesmen\n\nDaily began his Major League career as a pitcher for the Philadelphia Quakers in . He won 26 games, fifth in the National League. In , he went 16–9, but was already starting to play more often as an outfielder, appearing in 56 games in the outfield and batting .227. From until , he was almost exclusively an outfielder, but in he pitched in 41 games for three teams, winning 18 games. He played part of one more season in the majors, but died shortly after the end of the season.\n\n"}
{"id": "26500337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26500337", "title": "Edith Craig", "text": "Edith Craig\n\nEdith Ailsa Geraldine Craig (9 December 1869 – 27 March 1947) was a prolific theatre director, producer, costume designer and early pioneer of the women's suffrage movement in England. She was the daughter of actress Ellen Terry and the progressive English architect-designer Edward William Godwin, and the sister of theatre practitioner Edward Gordon Craig.\n\nAs a lesbian, an active campaigner for women's suffrage, and a woman working as a theatre director and producer, Edith Craig has been recovered by feminist scholars as well as theatre historians. Craig lived in a ménage à trois with the dramatist Christabel Marshall and the artist Clare 'Tony' Atwood from 1916 until her death.\n\nEdith 'Edy' Craig, like her younger brother Edward, was illegitimate, as her mother, Ellen Terry, was still married to her first husband George Frederic Watts when she eloped with Godwin in 1868. Edith Craig was born the following year at Gusterwoods Common in Hertfordshire, and was given the surname 'Craig' to avoid the stigma of illegitimacy. The family lived in Fallows Green, Harpenden in Hertfordshire, designed by Godwin, until 1874. The couple separated in 1875. In 1877 Terry married her second husband, Charles Wardell, an actor with the stage name Charles Kelly with whom she had worked. He became a father figure for the children leading to Craig taking the name Wardell. However, in 1907 Terry married her third husband, James Carew, whom Edith Craig did not like.\n\nCraig was educated at Mrs Cole's school, a co-educational institution in Earls Court in London, and at the Royal Academy of Music. Craig made her first appearance on the stage in 1878 during the run of \"Olivia\" at the Royal Court Theatre. She trained as a pianist under Alexis Hollander in Berlin, Germany, from 1887 to 1890. She also occasionally studied under Elizabeth Malleson of Dixton Manor Hall, Winchcombe, Gloucestershire.\n\nCraig joined the Lyceum Theatre company as a costume designer and actress, touring America in 1895 and 1907 under the stage name Ailsa Craig. Edith was noted for her expertise in historically accurate costumes and began to gain recognition for them. Like her younger brother, Craig appeared with Henry Irving in a number of plays, including \"The Bells\" (1895). In 1895 her performances in Pinero's \"Bygones\" and Charles Reade's \"The Lyons Mail\" respectively were praised by George Bernard Shaw and Eleonora Duse. George Bernard Shaw was a family friend of Craig's, he wrote several roles specifically for her. In Bernard Shaw's play \"Candida\", it is believed that the role of Prossy was created for Craig, who originally played the role.\n\nCraig also acted in plays by George Bernard Shaw and Henrik Ibsen, toured with Mrs Brown-Potter and the Independent Theatre. In 1899, Irving employed her to make the costumes for his production of \"Robespierre\", which led to her going into business as a dressmaker as Edith Craig & Co in Covent Garden until 1903. After Ellen Terry left the Lyceum Theatre and went into management, Craig accompanied her on her tours in the English provinces and America as her stage-director, and from then play-production became her chief occupation.\n\nCraig founded the Pioneer Players (1911–1925), a theatre society based in London. The Pioneer Players were known for producing formerly banned plays, plays on social humanism, women's suffrage and feminism and, from 1915, foreign plays in English. The plays in translation allowed the group to reach beyond the Actresses Franchise League and to be accepted into mainstream English theatre. Craig's mother, Ellen Terry, was president of the society. Craig served as the managing director / stage director, and her partner, Chris St. John, served as the secretary. An advisory committee included George Bernard Shaw and the President Gabrielle Enthoven. The Pioneer Players has been described by some critics as a women's theatre company, increasing women's opportunities in theatre. for whom Craig produced approximately 150 plays.\n\nAfter the Pioneer Players finally closed, Craig produced plays for the Little Theatre movement at York, Leeds, Letchworth and Hampstead. In 1919, she was an important figure in the British Drama League (BDL), which had been formed to promote amateur theatre throughout the United Kingdom, and to encourage a lasting peace after World War I. Later Craig directed plays at the Everyman Theatre Hampstead and Leeds Art Theatre. In 1929, the year after Ellen Terry's death, Craig converted the Elizabethan barn adjacent to Terry's house at Smallhythe Place into a theatre which she named The Barn Theatre. Here she produced Shakespeare every year to commemorate the anniversary of her mother's death. Craig also appeared in a number of silent films, including \"Fires of Fate\" (1923).\n\nCraig was involved in many suffrage groups, and sold newspapers on behalf of that cause in the street. After she met a woman selling newspapers for the Women's Freedom she became a member and worked at branch level for that group. She did not fully understand the meaning of suffragism, but formed strong opinions about it quickly. She stated that's \"[she] grew up quite firmly certain that no self-respecting woman could be other than a suffragist\". Craig used her theatrical experience on behalf of the Actresses' Franchise League and was also involved in various suffrage productions. She directed \"A Pageant of Great Women\", a play she devised with the writer and actor Cicely Hamilton, which was performed across the United Kingdom before large audiences. \"A Pageant\" followed the concept of a morality play in which the main character, Woman, is confronted by the antagonist, Prejudice, who believes that men and women are not equal. Justice presides over the debate between Prejudice and Woman, as groups of great women process on stage as evidence of women's achievements in art, government, education, spiritual matters and battle. Craig directed each production of this play, bringing the three professional actors to perform Woman, Justice and Prejudice and the historically accurate costumes with her to each venue. Craig frequently played the role of Rosa Bonheur, a lesbian artist.\n\nThe composer Martin Shaw proposed to Craig in 1903, and she accepted. However, the marriage was prevented by Ellen Terry, out of jealousy for her daughter's affection, and by Christabel Marshall, who wrote under the pseudonym Christopher St. John, with whom she lived from 1899 until they were joined in 1916 by the artist Clare 'Tony' Atwood, living in a ménage à trois until Craig's death in 1947. Her lesbian lifestyle was looked down upon by her family. Her brother Edward said Edith's sexuality was a result of her \"hatred of men, initiated by the hatred of her father\". Craig became involved in several books about her mother and George Bernard Shaw which created a rift in the relationship with her brother, who asked Craig not to write about their mother, and specifically not to share the details of the family's innermost problems. Edward Gordon Craig's book \"Ellen Terry and her Secret Self\" (1931) explicitly objected to \"Ellen Terry and Bernard Shaw: a Correspondence\" (1931) edited by Christopher St. John. In 1932 Craig co-edited with St. John \"Ellen Terry's Memoirs\" in which she replied to her brother's representation of their mother. Also in 1932 Craig adopted Ruby Chelta Craig. Craig was reconciled with her brother some time before her death.\n\nOn the death of her mother Craig committed her life to preserving her mother's legacy. She opened the family home, Smallhythe Place in Kent, England to the public. From 1939 she was supported in running the house by the National Trust. On her death she left Smallhythe Place to the National Trust as a memorial to her mother. Craig died of coronary thrombosis and chronic myocarditis on 27 March 1947 at Priest's House, Smallhythe Place while planning a Shakespeare festival in honour of her mother. Her body was cremated. Marshall and Atwood are buried alongside each other at St John the Baptist's Church, Small Hythe. Craig's ashes were supposed to be buried there as well, but at the time of Marshall and Atwood's deaths, the ashes got lost and a memorial was placed in the cemetery instead.\n\nEdith Craig suffered from acute arthritis especially in her hands. In her younger days, this painful condition prevented her from becoming a professional musician. She attended the Royal Academy of Music and held a certificate in piano from Trinity College. In her later years, after the death of her mother, Craig dictated her memoirs to her friend Vera Holme, known as Jacko. Jacko wrote them down in a quarto notebook that was \"lost in an attic\" for decades and then sold to Ann Rachlin in 1978. They included Craig's reminiscences of her childhood and life with her mother, Edward Gordon Craig and Henry Irving. Rachlin published them in her book \"Edy was a Lady\" in 2011.\n\nVirginia Woolf is said to have used Edith Craig as a model for the character of Miss LaTrobe in her novel \"Between the Acts\" (1941).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9481554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9481554", "title": "Egnatius", "text": "Egnatius\n\nGellius Egnatius (died 295 BC) was the leader in clan Varriani, of the Samnites during the Third Samnite War, which broke out in 298 BC. By the end of the second campaign the Samnites appeared completely defeated, however in the following year Gellius Egnatius marched into Etruria, and roused the Etruscans to a close co-operation against Rome. This had the effect of withdrawing Roman troops from Samnium for a period of time; but the forces of the confederates were defeated by the combined armies of consuls Lucius Volumnius Flamma Violens and Appius Claudius Caecus.\n\nIn the fourth campaign in 295 BC Egnatius induced the Gauls and the Umbrians to join the confederacy; but due to the withdrawal of the Etruscans and the Umbrians, the Gauls and the Samnites fell back beyond the Apennines, and were met by the Romans near the town of Sentinum. A decisive battle, marked by the heroic devotion of P. Decius Mus, ensured that the Samnites were defeated and their leader Egnatius was slain.\n"}
{"id": "87233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87233", "title": "Electronic tagging", "text": "Electronic tagging\n\nElectronic tagging is a form of surveillance which uses an electronic device, fitted to the person. For example, an ankle monitor is used for people who have been sentenced to electronic monitoring by a court, or are required to wear a tag upon release from prison. It is also used in healthcare settings with people with dementia and in immigration contexts in some jurisdictions. If the device is based on GPS technology, it is usually attached to a person by a probation officer, law enforcement or a private monitoring services company field officer, and is capable of tracking the wearer's location wherever there is the satellite signal to do so. Electronic monitoring tags can be also used in combination with curfews to confine defendants or offenders to their home as a condition of bail, as a stand-alone order or as a form of early release from prison. The combination of electronic monitoring with a curfew usually relies on radio frequency (RF) technology, which differs from GPS technology.\n\nThe use of home detention as a means of confinement and control within the home can be traced back to biblical times when the Romans placed Paul the Apostle, under house arrest.\nIn the 18th century, the English philosopher and social theorist Jeremy Bentham designed the Panopticon, a hypothetical prison. Inside the Panopticon (the name is derived from the Greek word for \"all-seeing\"), the prisoners are arranged in a ring of cells surrounding their guard, who is concealed in a tower in the center. The idea is that the guard controls the prisoners through his presumed observation: they constantly imagine his eyes on them, even when he's looking elsewhere.\n\nBentham promoted the concept of the Panopticon for much the same reasons that spur criminal-justice innovation today—a ballooning prison population and the need for a cheap solution with light manpower demands. when the modern prison emerged, it, too, was promoted as a reform, a positive replacement for corporal or capital punishment.\n\nEarly prison reformers—many of them Quakers bent on repentance and redemption— had suggested that cutting people off from the rest of the world would bring them closer to God. (The word \"penitentiary\" comes, of course, from \"penitence.\") Whereas the guard in Bentham's day had only two eyes, today's watcher can be virtually all-seeing, thanks to GPS monitoring technology.\n\nIn 1964, Ralph Kirkland Schwitzgebel (family name later shortened to \"Gable\") headed a research team at the Science Committee on Psychological Experimentation at Harvard University. The technologies of electronic monitoring have their roots in his (1968) experiments with prototype electronic monitoring devices. Schwitzgebel and William S. Hurd were granted patent #3,478,344 and published an article informing how such monitoring devices could be used.\nHe developed a one-kilogram Radio Telemetry Device that could be worn by a person. The device transmitted signals to a modified missile-tracking unit up to 400 metres away, which determined the wearer's location on a screen. The Harvard researchers invented and assessed a prototype monitoring system to use upon juvenile offenders. The public responded unfavorably on the whole, fearing that the devices were overly intrusive.\n\nEven in 1966 it was noted that, in theory, the system could be modified to gather and transmit physiological data such as pulse rates, blood alcohol levels, brain waves, or information on other bodily functions of the wearer and, conversely, that information or stimulation could be sent back to the person wearing the transmitting device. It could also be easily adapted to serve as a listening device or two-way radio. The system was tested on volunteers who included students, parolees and mental patients, and experiments along these lines exploring its possibilities were conducted. in 1969 Schwitzgebel was granted a patent in relation to the system.\n\nIn 1978, in diversion from its criminal justice application, a company called BI Incorporated began selling systems that allowed dairy farmers to dispense feed to their cows automatically. The company fitted a radio-frequency tag on each cow's ear so that when the cow approached the feed dispenser, a sensor in the latter caused it to drop a ration of fodder. If the same cow returned, the sensor recognized the unique signal of the tag and prevented the cow from getting a second helping until after enough time had passed for her to digest the first.\n\nIn 1981, writer Tom Stacey took to the British Home Office a proposal for the electronic tagging of offenders to track their movements, or fix a home curfew, using cellular radio telephone technology. Stacey had been briefly imprisoned abroad in his former role as a foreign correspondent and had for several years served as a \"Prison Visitor\" in England. In a letter to \"The Times\" on 6 October 1982 he outlined the proposal and immediate founded the \"Offender's Tag Association\", composed of electronic scientists, penologists and prominent citizens. The term 'tagging' thus entered the British English vocabulary in the penal context. \nIn March 1983, the \"Offender's Tag Association\" held a national press conference.\n\nLater in 1983, a district court judge in Albuquerque, New Mexico, Jack Love, persuaded Michael Goss, a computer salesperson, to develop a system to monitor five offenders. He sentenced offenders in what is considered the first court-sanctioned use of electronic monitoring at home. Judge Love was supposedly inspired to act based upon a storyline in a \"Spider-Man\" comic, specifically the newspaper comic strip version where the Kingpin puts an electronic bracelet on the superhero primarily to follow his movements.\n\nUntil the widespread adoption of cellular and broadband Internet networks in the US in the mid-1990s, electronic monitoring devices were typically home-based, dependent on a dedicated land line, and able to report only whether or not the criminal being tracked, was remaining at home. This was useful for criminals on work-release, parole, or probation, for example DWI offenders who were allowed to leave home to go to work during daytime hours but had to return home and remain there after a certain time of the evening.\n\nSince the mid-1990s, more recent technology such as GPS and cellular networks have permitted courts to order more specific restrictions, such as permitting a registered child sex offender to leave his home at any time of day, but alerting authorities if they come within 100 metres of a school, park, or playground.\n\nTrilateration is the process of determining absolute or relative locations of points by measurement of distances, using the geometry of circles, spheres or triangles.\n\nIf someone in the United States completely lost track of where he last was, asked directions in a nearby town and a local tells that he was 625 miles from Boise, Idaho, he could be anywhere on a circle around Boise that has a radius of 625 miles. If he then asked another person and was told that he was 690 miles from Minneapolis, Minnesota, he could combine this with the Boise information in two circles that intersect. He would know that he was at one of the two intersection points. If a third person told him that he was 615 miles from Tucson, Arizona, he could then eliminate the other options, because the third circle would only intersect with one of these points. The same concept works in three-dimensional space, as well, where there is only spheres instead of circles.\nIf someone knows he is 10 miles from satellite A in the sky, he could be anywhere on the surface of a huge, imaginary sphere with a 10-mile radius. If he also knows he is 15 miles from satellite B, he could overlap the first sphere with another, larger sphere. If he then also knows the distance to a third satellite, he could get a third sphere, which intersects with this circle at two points.\n\nThe Earth itself can act as a fourth sphere—only one of the two possible points will actually be on the surface of the planet, so one can eliminate the sphere in space. The GPS receiver figures both of these things out by analyzing high-frequency, low-power radio signals from the GPS satellites.\n\nRadio waves are electromagnetic energy, which means they travel at the speed of light (about 186,000 miles per second, 300,000 km per second in a vacuum). The receiver can figure out how far the signal has traveled by timing how long it took the signal to arrive.\n\nThe correct time value will cause all of the signals that the receiver is receiving to align at a single point in space. So the receiver sets its clock to that time value, and it then has the same time value that all the atomic clocks in all of the satellites have. When you measure the distance to four located satellites, you can draw four spheres that all intersect at one point. Three spheres will intersect even if your numbers are way off, but four spheres will not intersect at one point if you've measured incorrectly. The receiver does this constantly whenever it's on, which means it is nearly as accurate as the expensive atomic clocks in the satellites.\n\nIn order for the distance information to be of any use, the receiver also has to know where the satellites actually are. Things like the pull of the moon and the sun do change the satellites' orbits very slightly, but the Department of Defense constantly monitors their exact positions and transmits any adjustments to all GPS receivers as part of the satellites' signals.\n\nFor one thing, this method assumes the radio signals will make their way through the atmosphere at a consistent speed, the speed of light. Problems can also occur when radio signals bounce off large objects, such as skyscrapers, giving a receiver the impression that a satellite is farther away than it actually is. The station then broadcasts a radio signal to all DGPS-equipped receivers in the area, providing signal correction information for that area.\n\nThe most essential function of a GPS receiver is to pick up the transmissions of at least four satellites and combine the information in those transmissions with information in an electronic almanac, all in order to figure out the receiver's position on Earth.\n\nOnce the receiver makes this calculation, it can compute the latitude, longitude and altitude (or some similar measurement) of its current position.\nOne can use maps stored in the receiver's memory, connect the receiver to a computer, which can hold more detailed maps in its memory, or one can on a detailed map of an area find one´s way using the receiver's latitude and longitude readouts. A standard GPS receiver will not only place one´s position on a map at any particular location, but also trace one´s path across a map as one moves. If the receiver is switched on, it can stay in constant communication with GPS satellites to see how one´s location is changing.\n\nThe portable device is operatively coupled to a monitoring system through a wireless telephone network. The portable device transmits periodically encrypted location information as well as status information across the wireless network to the monitoring system. The monitoring system tracks the location of the individual and alerts the appropriate authorities when the individual violates a rule, such as a condition for parole. The portable device increases the time between transmissions when the individual is within a specified home location and reduces the time between transmissions when outside the specified location.\n\nAs a fail-safe against any technological glitch, whether accidental or malicious, a leading Electronic Monitoring operator is immensely proud of its backup systems, which boast an ultra-secure data room and extreme redundancy: For example, if a toxic-gas cloud were to wipe out the town of Anderson, the last act of the staff there would be to flip the switches diverting all call traffic to BI's corporate office in Boulder, Colorado, where a team capable of taking over instantly in case of disaster is always on duty.\n\nThe use of electronic monitoring in medical practice, especially as it relates to the tagging of the elderly and people with dementia, is capable of generating controversy, and media attention. Elderly people in care homes can be tagged with the same electronic monitors used to keep track of young offenders. For persons suffering from dementia, electronic monitoring might be beneficially used to prevent them from wandering away. The controversy in its medical use relates to two arguments, one as to the safety of the patients, and the other, as to their privacy and human rights. At over 40%, there is a high prevalence of wandering amongst patients with dementia. Of the several methods deployed to keep them from wandering, it is reported that 44% of wanderers with dementia have been kept behind closed doors at some point. Other solutions have included constant surveillance, use of makeshift alarms and, the use of various drugs that carry the risk of adverse effects.\n\nOpinions as to the propriety of electronic tagging of the elderly and persons with dementia vary. Carers welcome the idea of electronic tracking devices so long as it allows wanderers to be found more quickly. Some persons argue that a little liberty can be sacrificed in order to achieve safety and any concern about privacy only has force when we imagine that the person involved is trying to hide. The thinking behind this argument is that, for wandering persons with severe dementia, being electronically tagged and monitored carries less stigma than being found half dressed, in the middle of the night, on a highway. On the other side of the argument, it is contended that even in mild dementia, the need to protect a patient's right to privacy must be maintained. Even though electronic tagging and monitoring increases liberty, in a sense, it may potentially decrease the autonomy of the patient. Tracking may only settle the anxiety of Carers and family without necessarily attending to the needs of the person with dementia. What is important is to determine if persons with dementia have the capacity to make decisions, and if they do, their decisions should be respected. Where the person lacks the capacity, decisions need to be made in their best interest. Best interest in this sense does not simply mean the person's best medical interest. Deciding on their best interest will require careful inquiry, negotiation, and judgment.\n\nOn an iPhone, \"Location Services\" allows location-based apps and websites (including Maps, Camera, Safari, and other Apple and third-party apps) to use information from Global Positioning System (GPS) networks to determine your approximate location.\n\nA company in Japan has created GPS enabled uniforms and backpacks. School children in distress would be able to hit a button, immediately summoning a security agent to their location. Other similar applications in the U.S. have included mobile phones enabled with GPS tracking, to allow parents to track their school children.\n\nPublic transit vehicles are outfitted with electronic monitoring devices that talk to GPS systems tracking their locations. App developers have integrated this technology with mobile-phone apps. Now, passengers are able to receive accurate public transit timetables.\n\nThe use of ankle bracelets, or other electronic monitoring devices, have proven to be effective in research studies and even deterred crime. As such, they benefit society. When applied early, they may save otherwise habitual offenders from a life of crime.\n\nSeveral factors have been identified as necessary to render electronic monitoring effective: appropriately selecting offenders, robust and appropriate technology, fitting tags promptly, responding to breaches promptly, and communication between the criminal justice system and contractors.The Quaker Council for European Affairs thinks that for electronic monitoring to be effective, it should serve to halt a developing criminal career.\n\nThe National Audit Office in England and Wales commissioned a survey to examine the experiences of electronically monitored offenders and the members of their family. The survey revealed that there was common agreement amongst survey respondents that electronic monitoring was a more effective punitive measure than fines, and that it was generally more effective than community service. An interviewed offender is credited with saying: ‘You learn more about other crimes [in prison] and I think it gives you a taste to do other crimes because you've sat listening to other people'.\n\nIn 2006, Kathy Padgett, William Bales and Thomas Bloomberg conducted a well–controlled, large scale evaluation of 75,661 Florida offenders placed on home detention from 1998 to 2002., a small percentage of whom were made to wear an electronic monitoring device, which allowed comparison between those who were electronically monitored and those who were not. The study controlled for factors thought to influence the success or failure of community supervision: the type of placement, type of electronic monitoring device (GPS or radio frequency), criminal history, offender characteristics, type of primary offence committed by each offender, court- ordered conditions of supervision, the number of weeks absconded, weeks in treatment etc. with a total of 62 variables. The researchers incorporated time-varying independent variables in the estimation of maximum-likelihood coefficients, and also applied proportional-hazards survival analysis to adjust for right-censoring. As of 2010, compared to other studies, no previous study of electronic monitoring controlled such an array of variables nor involved such a large sample.\n\nRegarding their rate of compliance, violent offenders monitored by GPS were 91.2% less likely to abscond than those offenders not monitored at all. Electronic monitoring also effectively prevented offenders from committing new offences while being monitored: monitored offenders were 94.7% less likely to commit new offences than unmonitored offenders. The researchers found ‘no clear evidence that, overall, the decision to monitor offenders on home confinement with enhanced electronic control mechanisms results in ‘front-end' net-widening. In other words, offenders sentenced to home confinement with EM seem to have posed a significantly higher risk to public safety and would have had a higher likelihood of receiving a prison sentence if not for the availability of EM as an enhanced control mechanism.' In the end, GPS monitored offenders are 90.2% less likely than offenders on home confinement without EM to be revoked for a technical violation.\n\nAnother major advantage is the fact that wide deployment of electronic monitoring may lead to reduced prison populations. This is most likely where monitoring is used as an alternative to prison, rather than to enhance existing non-custodial orders. Major cost savings may be achieved through building fewer prisons as well as reducing the cost of administering custodial sentences.\n\nAnother is the possibility of improving rehabilitation and reintegration of offenders. Electronic monitoring may allow more offenders to maintain employment and contact with their families. It also avoids any negative psychological effects of incarceration, although of course the wearing of a device carries its own psychological pressures.\n\nIn late 2009, satellite-positioning receivers for a new navigation system at Newark airport in New Jersey were suffering brief daily breaks in reception. Something was interfering with the signals from orbiting global positioning system (GPS) satellites. A driver who passed by on the nearby New Jersey Turnpike each day used a cheap GPS jammer in his truck. Jammers prevent tracking devices from determining (and then reporting) its location.\n\nSome truck companies use fleet management software integrated with GPS in vehicles to monitor whether their drivers ever break speed limits, and in response, some delivery drivers buy illegal GPS jammers to subvert the system.\n\nA number of criticisms of the technology exist - some \"Tough on Crime\" groups argue that electronic tagging perceived as lenient, while other groups argue that the technology enables Net-widening, where non-prison bound individuals are subject to increased monitoring.\n\nElectronic monitoring does not physically restrain a person and dangerous offenders are still able to offend before authorities can intervene. Home detention with electronic monitoring is perceived by some people as lenient.\n\nAs early as 1988, the Penal Affairs Committee of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers), wrote a briefing in its Green Paper strongly opposing the adoption of electronic monitoring in England and Wales. The Committee noted all the claims made in favour of electronic monitoring but insisted that all such claims could be ‘either demolished or rendered invalid' by arguments against it. The major argument or criticism against it was that on the basis of past experience, electronic monitoring would not absolutely be used on people at risk of custody, but on people who would otherwise have been granted probation or community service. This would lead to a widening of the net of control rather than reducing prison population; it would undermine constructive and supportive interventions. The Penal Committee concluded that the degrading monitoring of fellow human beings, electronically, was morally wrong and unacceptable. They argued that the system was inherently ‘retributive and punitive' and the wearing of an ankle monitor would be stigmatizing for women offenders.\n\nIn the US in 1990, Ronald Corbett and Gary T. Marx criticised the use of electronic monitoring in a paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the American Society of Criminology, Baltimore. In the paper, which was later published in the Justice Quarterly, the authors described ‘the new surveillance' technology as sharing some ethos and the information-gathering techniques found in maximum-security prisons thereby allowing them to diffuse into the broader society. They remarked that ‘we appear to be moving toward, rather than away from, becoming a \"maximum-security society.\"' The authors acknowledged the data-mining capacity of electronic monitoring devices when they stated that ‘data in many different forms, from widely separated geographical areas, organizations, and time periods, can easily be merged and analyzed.'\n\nIn 2013, it was reported that many electronic-monitoring programs throughout the US were not staffed appropriately. George Drake, a consultant who worked on improving the systems said ‘Many times when an agency is budgeted for electronic-monitoring equipment, it is only budgeted for the devices themselves.' He added that the situation was ‘like buying a hammer and expecting a house to be built. It's simply a tool, and it requires a professional to use that tool and run the program.' Drake warned that programs can get out of control if officials don't develop stringent protocols for how to respond to alerts and don't manage how alerts are generated: ‘I see agencies with so many alerts that they can't deal with them,' Drake said. ‘They end up just throwing their hands up and saying they can't keep up with them.' In Colorado, a review of alert and event data, obtained from the Colorado Department of Corrections under an open-records request, was conducted by matching the names of parolees who appeared in that data with those who appeared in jail arrest records. The data revealed that 212 parole officers were saddled with the duty of responding to nearly 90,000 alerts and notification generated by electronic monitoring devices in the six months reviewed.\n\nAccording to an analysis in the Journal of Law and Policy, most of those placed on electronic monitors haven't committed serious or violent offenses and, were it not for monitoring, \"at least some of these populations would not in fact be incarcerated or otherwise under physical control.\" Eighty-nine percent of probation officers surveyed by the Justice Department felt that \"offenders' relationships with their significant others changed because of being monitored.\" Both officers and those monitored observed that the ankle band had a distinct impact on children. As one parent testified, \"When it beeps, the kids worry about whether the probation officer is coming to take me to jail. The kids run for it when it beeps.\"\n\nAs a condition for her bail, Gabrielle Baillieux, the protagonist in Peter Carey's \"Amnesia\", had to wear an ankle monitor. Later a colleague took it off. The device was transferred to a dog, whose movements were instead tracked.\n\nIn \"The Good Wife\", (\"Bang\") season 1 episode 15, Peter had been imprisoned for several months after being convicted of charges of corruption. He is allowed to return home under house arrest while his appeal is considered. Peter must wear an ankle monitor and cannot leave the apartment or communicate with the outside world.\n\nIn the 2007 American mystery horror-thriller movie, \"Disturbia\", a 17-year-old high school student, Kale Brecht (Shia LaBeouf), is charged with aggravated assault after his teacher made a personal remark about his dad, who had died in a car accident, and Kale is sentenced to three months of house arrest. He is secured with an ankle monitor and allowed only 100 feet from his house.\n\nEnglish professional footballer Jermaine Pennant played a Premier League match in 2005 while wearing an electronic tag; he had received the tag for drink-driving and driving while disqualified.\n\nLindsay Lohan failed to appear at a mandatory hearing, and a warrant was issued for her arrest. The judge ordered Lohan to wear a SCRAM bracelet, an electronic device that monitors the bloodstream for alcohol and drugs and alerts authorities if prohibited substances are consumed.\n\nRoman Polanski, one of the most famous fugitives from American justice in the world was finally arrested in Switzerland. The terms of his release included $4.5 million bail, house arrest wearing an ankle bracelet at his chalet, known as Milky Way, in the Swiss ski resort of Gstaad, after having spent sixty-seven days in a Zurich detention centre.\n\nBernard Madoff, the financier accused in a $50 billion fraud case before trial was ordered under house arrest, with electronic monitoring, and posting $10 million bail against his $7 million Manhattan apartment, and against his wife's homes in Montauk, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Fla.\n\nDominique Strauss-Kahn, former International Monetary Fund chief, charged with trying to rape a hotel maid May 14, 2011. On release from jail, arranged for house arrest, with a private security company that kept him under armed guard and electronic monitoring as conditions of his bail. Prosecutors estimated the cost at $200,000 a month, which he was responsible for paying.\n\nDr. Dre in 1992, the rapper was arrested for assaulting record producer Damon Thomas and later pleaded guilty to assault on a police officer, eventually serving house arrest and wearing a police-monitoring ankle bracelet.\n\nThe U.S. correctional system is overwhelmed by the over-incarceration of nonviolent offenders such as drug users. Private-prison corporations themselves have begun to expand into the \"alternatives\" industry. The GEO Group now has an array of \"community reëntry services\" and treatment programs. In 2011, it acquired the country's largest electronic-monitoring firm, BI Incorporated, for $415 million. For the most part, these companies deal not with felony probationers (\"probation\" as it is usually understood) but with people whose offenses are often too minor to merit jail time. The system is known as \"offender-funded\" justice.\n\nJack Long, a Georgia attorney, filed a habeas petition on behalf of a client who, after stealing a two-dollar can of beer from a convenience store, was ordered to spend a year wearing an ankle bracelet operated by a company called Sentinel Offender Services. The man wound up owing more than a thousand dollars to the company in fees and late-payment penalties, and started selling his blood plasma to keep pace. Dozens of probationers are jailed because of electronic-monitoring bills, most of which were not authorized by any legal statute.\n\nElectronic monitoring of a curfew has become an integral part of the criminal justice system in the United Kingdom, used at various stages of criminal cases used to monitor compliance with a curfew, requiring the curfewee to remain in their home for a specified number of hours a day or exclusion from specified areas (such as victim's homes and football grounds).\n\nThose subject to electronic monitoring may be given curfews as part of Bail conditions, sentenced under the Criminal Justice Act 2003 in England and Wales (with separate legislation applying in Scotland). Alternatively offenders may be released from a prison on a Home Detention Curfew. Released prisoners under home detention allowed out during curfew hours only for:\n\nAdditionally, electronic monitoring may be used for those subject to a curfew given under the Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures Act 2011 (previously known as Control order under the Prevention of Terrorism Act 2005)\n\nSince electronically monitored curfews were rolled out throughout England and Wales their use has increased sharply, from 9,000 cases in 1999-2000 to 53,000 in 2004-05. In 2004-05, the Home Office spent £102.3 million on the electronic monitoring of curfews and electronically monitored curfews are considered cheaper than custody. Ninety days in custody (e.g., a prison) costs approximately five times more than the same amount of time on an electronically monitored curfew order.\n\nTypically, offenders are fitted with an electronic tag around their ankle which sends a regular signal to a receiver unit installed in their home. Some systems are connected to a fixed telephone line in the case where a GSM signal is not available, whilst most arrangements utilise the mobile phone system to communicate with the monitoring company. If the tag is not functioning or within range of the base station during curfew hours, or if the base is disconnected from the power supply, or the base station is moved then the monitoring company are alerted, who in turn, notify the appropriate authority such as the Law enforcement in the United Kingdom, National Probation Service or Prison.\n\nIn 2012, the Policy Exchange thinktank examined the use of electronic monitoring in England and Wales and made comparisons with technologies and models seen in other jurisdictions, particularly the United States. The report was critical of the Ministry of Justice's model of a fully privatised service - which gave little scope for police or probation services to make use of electronic monitoring. The report, Future of Corrections, also criticised the cost of the service, highlighting an apparent differential between what the UK taxpayer was charged and what could be found in the United States. At the time of publication the Ministry of Justice was completing a procurement exercise for a new generation of GPS tags - and the report described the exercise as flawed, calling on electronic monitoring to be commissioned locally via Police and Crime Commissioners.\n\nSubsequently, there were a number of scandals in relation to electronic monitoring in England and Wales, with a criminal investigation opened by the Serious Fraud Office into the activities of Serco and G4S. As a result of the investigation, Serco agreed to repay £68.5 million to the taxpayer and G4S agreed to repay £109 million. The duopoly were subsequently stripped of their contract, with Capita taking over the contract. In 2017, another criminal investigation saw police make a number of arrests in relation to allegations that at least 32 criminals on tag had paid up to £400 to Capita employees in order to have 'loose' tags fitted, allowing them to remove their tags.\n\nThe monitoring of sex offenders via electronic tagging is currently in debate due to certain rights offenders have in England and Wales.\n\nElectronic tagging has begun being used on psychiatric patients, prompting concern from mental health advocates who state that the practice is demeaning.\n\nIn Scotland, those convicted of a serious sexual or violent crime, and are determined to pose a serious danger to the community, are to be given a sentence, known as an Order for Lifelong Restriction, which means that the offender will be detained indefinitely, until the Parole Board for Scotland determines that the offender no longer poses a risk to the safety of others. If the offender is released on parole, he or she is to be electronically tagged and kept under close supervision by the Scottish Parole Board for the remainder of the offender's life.\n\nIn Western Australia, The Bail Act 1982 (WA) specifically provides for electronic monitoring at the pre-trial stage. The Act allows only judicial officers to impose a home detention. This is done after first obtaining a suitability report, from a corrections officer, on accused persons aged over 17. The accused person may then be required to wear a device or permit the installation of a device in the place where he/she is required to remain.\n\nIn most Australian jurisdictions, the generally broad discretion available when imposing bail conditions may permit electronic monitoring. For instance, in section 11(2) of the South Australian Bail Act 1985, the bail authority may 'impose a condition requiring an accused person to remain at his or her residence except for authorised activities such as employment.' The Supreme Court of South Australia, it is thought, may have interpreted this as authority to order electronically monitored bail, at least where the applicant is willing.\n\nThe Northern Territory and Western Australia have laws that specifically authorize electronic monitoring as a primary sentencing option for home detention. The \"Sentencing Act 1995\", of the Northern Territory, provides that a 'court which sentences an offender to a term of imprisonment may make an order suspending the sentence on the offender entering into a home detention order'. Such offenders may be required to 'wear or have attached an approved monitoring device in accordance with the directions of the Commissioner, and allow the placing, or installation in, and retrieval from, the premises or place specified in the order of such machine, equipment or device necessary for the efficient operation of the monitoring device'.\n\nIn Western Australia, the \"Sentencing Act 1995\" provides that a court may impose an intensive supervision order with a curfew requirement. The offender is required to submit to surveillance or monitoring as ordered; wear a device or have a device installed in his or her home. Electronic monitoring 'may only be imposed for a term of six months or less'.\n\nIn New South Wales, although the law does not specifically authorise electronic monitoring, the Crimes (Sentencing Procedure) Act 1999 (NSW), however, grants the court the power to 'impose such conditions as it considers appropriate on any home detention order made by it'. In practice, electronic monitoring is used to enforce these home detention orders. The general powers of court may also allow electronic monitoring in other States and Territories.\n\nIn August 2010, Brazil awarded a GPS Offender Monitoring contract to kick start its monitoring of offenders and management of the Brazilian governments early release programme\n\nElectronic monitoring as a pilot project was started in March 2012, involving 150 offenders, mostly prisoners serving life terms. The project was rolled out to reduce the South Africa's prison population. It consequently would also reduce the taxpayer's burden on correctional facilities. South Africa locks up more people than any other country on the continent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4844009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4844009", "title": "Gebhard, Duke of Lorraine", "text": "Gebhard, Duke of Lorraine\n\nGebhard of Lahngau ( 860/868 – 22 June 910), of the Conradine dynasty, son of Odo (died 879), count of Lahngau, and Judith, was himself count of Wetterau (909–910) and Rheingau (897–906) and then duke of Lotharingia (Lorraine).\n\nIn 903, Louis the Child, king of Germany, gave him the government of Lotharingia with the title of duke (\"Kebehart dux regni quod a multis Hlotharii dicitur\"). Gebhard died in battle against the Magyars, somewhere by Augsburg.\n\nWith his wife Ida, he had two children:\n\n"}
{"id": "13582841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13582841", "title": "Giuseppe Abbiati", "text": "Giuseppe Abbiati\n\nGiuseppe Abbiati was an Italian engraver, active during the beginning of the 18th century in Milan. He etched some small prints of battles, and allegorical subjects of his own design.\n"}
{"id": "42693718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42693718", "title": "Intergenerational struggle", "text": "Intergenerational struggle\n\nThe intergenerational struggle is the economic conflict between successive generations of workers because of the public pension system where the first generation has better pension benefit and the last must pay more taxes, have a greater tax wedge and a lower pension benefit due to the public debt that the states make in order to pay the current public spending.\n"}
{"id": "13437391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13437391", "title": "Konrad Freiherr von Wangenheim", "text": "Konrad Freiherr von Wangenheim\n\nKonrad Freiherr von Wangenheim (20 August 1909 – 28 January 1953) was a German army Cavalry officer, a horse rider who competed at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin, securing a gold medal for the German equestrian team whilst suffering from a broken collarbone.\n\nIn 1936 he and his horse \"Kurfürst\" won the gold medal as part of the German eventing team in the team eventing competition after finishing 24th in the individual eventing competition.\n\nWangenheim became a Captain (\"Rittmeister\") with Cavalry Regiment No. 8 (\"Reiter-Regiment 8\", later renamed \"Kavallerie-Regiment 8\") garrisoned at Breig in Silesia. In July 1944, while serving as a German Army officer on the Eastern Front during the Second World War, he was captured by the Red Army. After being held as a prisoner of war for several years, while awaiting repatriation to Germany from the Soviet Union, in 1953 he was found hanged in Stalingrad, Russia. He may have committed suicide.\n\nHe was the father of the professional fashion photographer Chris von Wangenheim.\n\n"}
{"id": "23257515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23257515", "title": "Lakshmanan Sathyavagiswaran", "text": "Lakshmanan Sathyavagiswaran\n\nDr. Lakshmanan Sathyavagiswaran is the former Chief Medical Examiner-Coroner for the County of Los Angeles. In 2016, he again took over this position on an interim basis.\n\nSathyavagiswaran graduated from Loyola College, Chennai in 1965 and Stanley Medical College in 1971. In 1972 he immigrated to the United States, where he interned at the Jewish Hospital of Brooklyn. From 1972 to 1973 he trained in anatomical and clinical pathology at St. Luke's Hospital of Columbia University. From 1973 to 1977 he was the senior resident in medicine at Brooklyn Cumberland Hospital.\n\nIn 1977 he joined the Los Angeles County Coroner's Office. He worked his way up to the position of chief of forensic medicine. In 1990 he was passed over in favor of J. Lawrence Cogan for the position of Chief Medical Examiner-Coroner.\n\nSathyavagiswaran was appointed Chief Medical Examiner-Coroner in 1992. The Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors' first selection, Dr. Joshua Perper of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, declined the job due to Los Angeles' high housing costs. The Board's second choice, Dr. Yong-Myun Rho of Queens, New York, thrice failed the state medical exam. Sathyavagiswaran was then selected over Cogan after the Board of Supervisors received a letter signed by several deputy medical examiners requesting the County to consider the in house candidates rather than outsiders.\n\nHe was the medical examiner during the O. J. Simpson murder case and testified during the criminal and civil trials. Sathyavagiswaran also testified in the trials of Dean Carter and Phil Spector, as well as in the wrongful death suit brought against the Los Angeles Police Department by the family of Emil Matasareanu.\n\nSathyavagiswaran supervised the autopsy on the body of Michael Jackson on June 26, 2009.\n\nFollowing the unexpected resignation of Sathyavagiswaran′s Successor Dr. Mark Fajardo in March 2016, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors voted unanimously to appoint Sathyavagiswaran as interim coroner even though he retired 3 years earlier..\n"}
{"id": "1655620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1655620", "title": "List of Polish war cemeteries", "text": "List of Polish war cemeteries\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of national war cemeteries of Polish soldiers around the world. Unless stated otherwise, the cemeteries include the graves of the World War II veterans.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "655878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=655878", "title": "List of drowning victims", "text": "List of drowning victims\n\nThis is a list of drowning victims in chronological order. The reasons for drowning are diverse and range from suicide, to accidents or murders.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19522363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19522363", "title": "List of terrorist incidents", "text": "List of terrorist incidents\n\nThe following is a list of terrorist incidents that have not been carried out by a state or its forces (see state terrorism and state-sponsored terrorism). Assassinations are listed at List of assassinated people.\n\nDefinitions of terrorism vary, so incidents listed here are restricted to those that:\n\nScholars dispute what might be called terrorism in earlier periods. The modern sense of terrorism emerged in the mid-19th century.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23948301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23948301", "title": "List of victims of the Sicilian Mafia", "text": "List of victims of the Sicilian Mafia\n\nThis list of victims of the Sicilian Mafia includes people who have been killed by the Sicilian Mafia while opposing its rule. It does not include people killed in internal conflicts of the Mafia itself.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWith fascism rule in the 1930s, the mob seemed to disappear for the repressive state action.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57714206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57714206", "title": "María José Alcón", "text": "María José Alcón\n\nMaría José Alcón i Miquel (1961 – 16 June 2018) was a Spanish politician from People's Party.\n\nBachelor of Law and Master's Degree in Urban Law, she held the position of Councilor for Culture at the City Council of Valencia between 1995 and 2009,3 and left office after suffering an accident. After leaving the position of councilor, she continued at City Hall as a consultant, and also continued linked to PP.\n\nOn 2015, she was charged in the \"Taula case\" for money laundering.. In a conversation with his son, recorded by the police, she recognized the alleged money laundering for the financing of the party in Valencia and explained the practice known as \"smurfing\", consisting of some people received cash and at the same time they remitted a transfer for the same amount as a legal donation to the PP. In this corruption scandal was charged her husband, Alfonso Grau, who was Deputy Mayor between 1995 and 2015, and the former Mayoress Rita Barberá, who died two days after declaring in the Supreme Court in November 2016, both of the same political party. In 2015 she was again charged for a tax crime in the sale of real estate.\n\nAlcón died on 16 June 2018 after falling from the balcony of her house in Callosa d'en Sarrià. Suicide is suspected.\n"}
{"id": "7217374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7217374", "title": "Mikołaj Kurowski", "text": "Mikołaj Kurowski\n\nMikołaj Kurowski of Szreniawa of Kurów (died 1411) was a chancellor of the Kingdom of Poland and a Catholic hierarch. He held the posts of the bishop of Poznań, bishop of Włocławek and an archbishop of Gniezno. Releasing the name or adoptive Mirosław.\n\nBorn in Kurów near Bochnia, he was a son to the castellan of Żarnów Klemens Kurowski. In 1385 he received the title of Bachelor of Arts at the Charles University in Prague. For another ten years he continued his studies there and in 1395 he received the title of \"magister artium\". During his stay in Bohemia he became friends with some of the most prominent Polish politicians of the era to come, among them Paweł Włodkowic and Andrzej Łaskarz. Upon his return to Poland he was ordained a priest. At the same time he started a political career as a clerk in the royal chancellery in Kraków.\n\nHe quickly advanced through the ranks of both religious and lay hierarchy and in 1395 he was ordained a bishop of Poznań. In 1399, thanks to the support of King Władysław II of Poland, he became the royal chancellor and bishop of Wrocław. An active politician, he spent more time in the capital than in distant capital of Silesia. In 1402 he yet again changed the bishopry and became the archbishop of Gniezno. As a diplomat, he took part in the Polish-Teutonic negotiations at Raciąż in 1404 and the council of Nowy Korczyn. He was also twice a member of the Polish embassy to the Grand Master of the Teutonic Order and, as the primate of Poland, he held the post of a regent during the king's absence.\n\nDuring the battle of Grunwald he fielded a banner of his own. After the battle he was one of the authors of the Peace of Thorn (1411) and the negotiations with Sigismund of Luxemburg.\n\nHe was heavily wounded on 7 September 1411, in the effect of an accident with his horse, and died later that day. Kurowski was buried in the Cathedral of Gniezno.\n\n"}
{"id": "55219073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55219073", "title": "Miscarriage risks", "text": "Miscarriage risks\n\nMiscarriage risks are those circumstances, conditions, and substances that increase the risk of miscarriage. Some risks are modifiable and can be changed. Other risks cannot be modified and can't be changed. Risks can be firmly tied to miscarriages and others are still under investigation. In addition, there are those circumstances and treatments that have not been found effective in preventing miscarriage. When a woman keeps having miscarriages, infertility is present.\n\n"}
{"id": "3506905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3506905", "title": "Mostafa Chamran", "text": "Mostafa Chamran\n\nMostafa Chamran Save'ei () (8 March 1932 – 21 June 1981, Tehran, Iran) was an Iranian physicist, politician, commander and guerrilla who served as the first defense minister of post-revolutionary Iran and as member of parliament, as well as the commander of paramilitary volunteers in Iran–Iraq War, known as \"Irregular Warfare Headquarters\". He was killed during the Iran–Iraq War. In Iran, he is known as a martyr and a symbol of an ideological and revolutionary Muslim who left academic careers and prestigious positions as a scientist and professor in the US, University of California, Berkeley and migrated in order to help the Islamic movements in Palestine, Lebanon, Egypt as a chief revolutionary guerilla, as well as in the Islamic revolution of Iran. He helped to found the Amal Movement in southern Lebanon.\n\nChamran was born into a religious family on 8 March 1932 in Tehran. Earlier he was educated by Ayatollah Taleqani and Morteza Motahari. He studied at Alborz High School and then graduated from Tehran University with a bachelor's degree in electro mechanics.\n\nIn the late 1950s, he moved to the United States for higher education, obtaining a M.S. degree from the Texas A&M University. He then went on to obtain his Ph.D. in electrical engineering and plasma physics in 1963 from the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nIn the book \"\"Self-construction and developmen\"t\" he said he was hired as research staff scientist at Bell Laboratories and NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in the 1960s.\n\nChamran was one of the senior members of the Freedom Movement led by Mehdi Bazargan in the 1960s. He was part of the radical external wing together with Ebrahim Yazdi, Sadegh Ghotbzadeh and Ali Shariati.\n\nFollowing graduation, Chamran went to Cuba to receive military training. In December 1963, he along with Ghotbzadeh and Yazdi left the US for Egypt where he was trained in guerilla warfare. They met the Egyptian authorities to establish an anti-Shah organization in the country, which was later called SAMA, special organization for unity and action. Chamran was chosen as its military head. Upon his return to the US in 1965 he founded a group, Red Shiism, in San Jose with the aim of training militants. His brother, Mehdi, was also part of the group. In 1968, he founded another group, the Muslim Students’ Association of America (MSA), and it was led by Ebrahim Yazdi. The group managed to establish branches in the United Kingdom and France.\n\nIn 1971 Chamran left the US for Lebanon and joined the camps of the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Amal movement. He became a leading and founding member of the Islamic revolutionary movement in the Middle East, organizing and training guerrillas and revolutionary forces in Algeria, Egypt, Syria. During the civil war in Lebanon he actively cooperated with Musa Al Sadr, founder of the Amal movement. Chamran also became an Amal member and \"right-hand man of Sadr\".\n\nChamran along with Sadegh Ghotbzadeh was part of the faction, called \"Syrian mafia\", in the court of Khomeini, and there was a feud between his group and the Libya-friendly group, led by Mohammad Montazeri.\nWith the Islamic Revolution taking place in Iran, Chamran returned to Iran. In 1979, he served as deputy prime minister in the cabinet of Mehdi Bazargan. He led the military operations in Kurdistan where Kurds rebelled against the Islamic regime. He served as minister of defense from September 1979 to 1980, being the first civil defense minister of the Islamic Republic.\n\nIn March 1980, he was elected to the Majlis of Iran (the Iranian Parliament) as a representative of Tehran. In May 1980, he was named the Ayatollah's representative to the Supreme Council of National Defense.\n\nChamran was married to Tamsen Heiman, an American Muslim, in 1961. They had one daughter Roushan and three sons Ali, Jamal and Rahim. Jamal was drowned in childhood and the rest of them live in the US. After migrating to Lebanon, due to the difficulties they were facing, Tamsen left Chamran in 1973 and went back to the US. She died in 2009.\n\nLater on Chamran was married to a woman from Lebanon, Ghadeh Jaber.\n\nChamran led an infantry unit during the Iran–Iraq War and received two wounds in his left leg by shrapnel from a mortar shell. However, he refused to leave his unit. He was killed in Dehlavieh on 21 June 1981 as the war was raging on. His death was regarded as \"suspicious\" and the related details have remained unclear. Chamran was buried in the Behesht-e Zahra cemetery in Tehran.\n\nKhomenei publicly proclaimed Chamran as a \"proud commander of Islam.\" Chamran was posthumously given a hero status, and many buildings and streets in Iran and Lebanon were named for him, as well as a major expressway. In 2012, Mohsen Alavi Pour published Chamran's biography. A species of moth were named after him in 2013. Nick Robinson published an English biography of Chamran in the United Kingdom in 2013, \"22: Not a new lifestyle for those who thirst for humanity!\".\n\nIn 2014 a film named \"Che\" was released to honor Chamran. The film portrays two days of Chamran's life after the Islamic Revolution defending Paveh and received lots of attention and won some awards.\n"}
{"id": "1672403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1672403", "title": "Munir Said Thalib", "text": "Munir Said Thalib\n\nMunir Said Thalib (8 December 1965 – 7 September 2004) was an Indonesian activist. The founder of the Kontras human rights organisation and laureate of the 2000 Right Livelihood Award, Munir was assassinated in 2004 while travelling to Utrecht University to pursue a Master's degree in international law and human rights. He is one of Indonesia's most famous human rights and anti-corruption activists.\n\nMunir was born into a family of Hadhrami Arab and Javanese origins, from Kathiri. He studied law at Brawijaya University in Malang in the province of East Java, and later started off his career in 1989 as a legal aid officer in the East Java provincial capital, Surabaya. He became one of Indonesia's leading human rights campaigners and faced intimidation, including death threats. He accused the Indonesian military of human rights violations in East Timor and in the troubled provinces of Papua and Aceh, and accused them of running a criminal network involved in illegal tree logging and drug smuggling.\n\nHe once fractured his hand whilst saving an elderly labourer from being beaten by security officials.\n\nHe founded the Commission for Missing Persons and Victims of Violence (Kontras). His last position was executive director of Indonesian Human Rights Monitor (IMPARSIAL), another Indonesian human rights NGO.\n\nIn 2001, while he was investigating Kopassus's role in kidnappings, a bomb package was delivered to his house.\n\nMunir was poisoned with arsenic on a flight from Jakarta to Amsterdam on 7 September 2004. He was travelling on state-owned airline Garuda Indonesia. It was concluded from Munir's autopsy and eyewitnesses during the trial that he had died two hours before arrival in Schiphol International Airport. He took the arsenic during his flight transit in Singapore, or sometime near that time. In Singapore, Pollycarpus Priyanto, a Garuda pilot at the time and the prime suspect in Munir's trial, left the flight and then went back to Indonesia. Originally he departed from Indonesia by deadheading, with a fake document which allowed him to fly on another flight which was not his scheduled flight. Munir began to suffer acute diarrhea and bouts of vomiting shortly after his flight took off from Singapore to Amsterdam. The cabin crew informed the pilot in command that a passenger was sick, and a doctor who happened to be on the plane was asked to provide medical assistance. However, Munir died around two hours before the plane landed at Amsterdam's Schiphol airport.\n\nWhen the results of the autopsy were released two months later, on 12 November, the Netherlands Forensic Institute revealed that Munir's body contained a level of arsenic almost three times the lethal dose. This was later confirmed by Indonesian police.\n\nThere were three suspects; Pollycarpus Budihari Priyanto, a former pilot who allegedly gave up his business class seat to Munir during the flight, and two flight attendants. It is alleged that Priyanto placed the arsenic in Munir's orange juice, upon orders from Garuda's chief executive at that time, Indra Setiawan. \n\nIndonesian president Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono proclaimed that he will make sure that Munir's killers are brought to justice and quickly convened an independent investigation. However support and resources for the investigation waned, senior officials refused to comply, and the findings were never released.\n\nIn December 2005, Pollycarpus Budihari Priyanto was found guilty of Munir's murder by an Indonesian court and sentenced to fourteen years imprisonment. Munir's supporters claim that Priyanto was acting on orders and that this was not brought out during the court case.\n\nIn October 2006, the Supreme Court of Indonesia invalidated the conviction against Pollycarpus Budihari Priyanto, citing insufficient evidence. However, in April 2007, police presented new evidence to prosecutors implicating Priyanto.\n\nIn October 2007, Indra Setiawan and his deputy, Rohainil Aini, faced trial for providing Pollycarpus with fake documents to board Munir's flight from Jakarta to Singapore. They would have faced a possible death penalty. They were both convicted and imprisoned for Munir's murder, and have appealed their convictions.\n\nIn 2007, a Jakarta court found that Garuda was negligent in refusing to perform an emergency landing, and ordered the company to pay 600 million rupiah in compensation to Munir's widow. When Garuda appealed this decision, the supreme court increased the compensation to an undisclosed amount. Garuda then failed to pay the compensation.\n\nIn November 2014, Pollycarpus was released from prison.\n\nTop-level Indonesian State Intelligence Agency (BIN) officials were implicated in Munir's murder. The chief of police at the time, Sutanto, allegedly knew of the BIN involvement. A BIN deputy chairman, Muchdi Purwopranjono, was tried and acquitted for the murder in what has been internationally condemned as a \"sham trial\". Prosecutors accused Muchdi of ordering the killing out of anger over Munir’s criticisms of his Kopassus leadership. Prior to the murder Priyanto made at least 26 calls to Muchdi, and a number of calls to a confidential BIN line.\n\nA United States diplomatic cables leak alleged that former BIN chief A. M. Hendropriyono \"chaired two meetings at which Munir’s assassination was planned\" and that a witness at those meetings told police that \"only the time and method of the murder changed from the plans he heard discussed; original plans were to kill Munir in his office.\" When Hendropriyono was first appointed to the BIN it was bitterly condemned by Munir, who was guiding an investigation into Hendropriyono's role in human rights abuses for a prosecution.\n\nMuchdi and Hendropriyono were both summoned for questioning by a presidential fact-finding team, but they refused to comply with the investigation. Recommendations by the team for Hendropriyono’s prosecution were completely ignored by the police and the attorney general’s office.\n\nIn 2014, Hendropriyono admitted to journalist Allan Nairn that he bore \"command responsibility\" for the assassination, and he was ready to accept being put on trial.\n\nMunir was posthumously awarded the Train Foundation's Civil Courage Prize, which recognizes \"extraordinary heroes of conscience\".\n\nIn 2013 a museum in Malang was opened in his honour.\n\nMunir was married to Suciwati, a labour rights activist at the time. They had two children. His wife is pursuing the investigation of Munir's assassination and works to keep Munir's case and human rights at the centre of Indonesian politics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32399545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32399545", "title": "Murder of Leiby Kletzky", "text": "Murder of Leiby Kletzky\n\nOn July 11, 2011, Leiby Kletzky, a Hasidic Jewish boy, was kidnapped as he walked home from his school day camp in the mainly Hasidic neighborhood of Boro Park, Brooklyn in New York City, New York. Kletzky's disappearance sparked an all-out search by New York City police and a block-by-block search by up to 5,000 Orthodox Jewish volunteers from New York and other states coordinated by the Brooklyn South Shomrim volunteer civilian patrol.\n\nHis dismembered body was found in the Kensington apartment of Levi Aron, aged 35, and in a dumpster in another Brooklyn neighborhood, Greenwood Heights, on Wednesday morning July 13. Videos from surveillance cameras along the boy's route showed him meeting a man outside a dentist's office and then apparently getting into his car. The dentist's reception records led police to Aron at his apartment, where he showed them parts of the boy - and told them where he had dumped the rest of the body. The kidnapping and murder of the eight-year-old boy shocked the insular Brooklyn Hasidic community, whose streets are considered relatively safe.\n\nAron gave a 450-word handwritten confession to police after his arrest, but pleaded not guilty at his first court hearing. Before the case went to trial, on August 9, 2012 Aron pleaded guilty to one charge of second-degree murder and one charge of second-degree kidnapping as part of a plea bargain agreement worked out between prosecutors and defense attorneys. On August 29, Judge Neil Firetog sentenced Aron to 40 years to life in prison. Aron would be eligible for parole in 2051, which includes credit for time served.\n\nThe case drew drawn comparisons to the 1979 kidnapping of six-year-old Etan Patz from nearby SoHo, who was snatched while walking to his school bus for the first time.\n\nYehudah Kletzky, known as \"Leiby\", was the third of six children and only son of Nachman Kletzky and Esti Forster Kletzky, Boyaner Hasidim and residents of Boro Park. He was reported missing late Monday afternoon while walking home from a day camp held at his school, Yeshiva Boyan Tiferes Mordechai Shlomo. Kletzky had begged his parents to let him walk home from the camp instead of taking the school bus. It was the first time that his parents allowed him to walk alone and they had practiced the route the day before; his mother waited for him at a predetermined point a few blocks away at 50th Street and 13th Avenue. The boy missed a turn upon leaving camp and headed in the wrong direction.\n\nKletzky's mother called the Brooklyn South Shomrim volunteer civilian patrol to report a missing child at 6:14 p.m. Brooklyn South Shomrim, which says it receives 10 calls of missing children per day, immediately checked candy stores, other shops, and homes of friends and relatives where the boy might have gone. By 8:30 p.m., Shomrim contacted the New York City Police Department, which declared a Level 1 search, something normally undertaken after a child is missing for 24 hours. The police search involved canine units, mounted police, and helicopters. On Tuesday morning, Brooklyn South Shomrim, together with Shomrim organizations in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, Flatbush, and Williamsburg made an all-out call for volunteers to join the search. Five thousand Orthodox Jewish volunteers from the local community and from as far away as the tri-state area, joined in a block-by-block search. Bangladeshi residents of nearby Kensington also joined the search. State Assemblyman Dov Hikind posted a $5,000 reward for information leading to the return of the child, which was eventually upped to $100,000 by members of the community.\n\nMeanwhile, Yaakov German, a Bobover Hasid and father of Kletzky's yeshiva rebbi, went door-to-door on Tuesday morning with his son to examine videos from surveillance cameras posted in stores and offices along the boy's route. The videos showed that after leaving his school at 1205 44th Street, between 12th and 13th Avenues, at about 5:05 p.m., Kletzky missed his turn at 13th Avenue and continued down 44th Street. Other videos showed the boy walking by Shomrim Locksmith at 44th Street and 15th Avenue, and then along 44th Street at 17th Avenue. On 18th Avenue, the boy was seen talking to a man who then crossed the street and entered a dentist's office. When the man came out, Kletzky followed him and appeared to get into his car.\n\nAfter examining the videos, police located the dentist, who alerted his receptionist, the wife of community political operative Simcha Eichenstein. She gave them the name and address of the suspect who had come in to pay his bill that day. After midnight on Tuesday, police also managed to identify the car in the surveillance video as a 1990 gold Honda Accord. Forty-five minutes later, two Flatbush volunteers searching for the missing boy in Kensington spotted the car and sent in the license-plate number, which matched Aron's details. Police went to the suspect's apartment in Kensington around 2 a.m. Wednesday morning. They arrived to an open door, and when they asked Aron where the boy was, he allegedly nodded toward the kitchen, where the police found blood-soaked carving knives and bloody towels in bags. The boy's severed feet were found in the freezer. The suspect told police where to find the rest of the remains: in a red suitcase thrown in a dumpster on 20th Street between Fourth and Fifth Avenues. Aron was taken into police custody at 2:40 a.m. Wednesday morning.\n\nAccording to a 450-word handwritten statement in which he confessed to killing the boy, Aron claimed that Kletzky had asked him for directions and accepted a ride, saying he wanted to be dropped off at a bookstore. Aron suggested that they drive together to a wedding in Monsey, New York; they returned around 11:20 p.m. Aron claimed that he planned to return the boy to his family on Tuesday, but when he saw the missing child posters the next day, he said he \"panicked\", returned to the apartment, and smothered the boy with a towel. Then he dismembered the body and stuffed it into bags, which he placed in a suitcase and left in a dumpster in another neighborhood.\n\nA video from the security camera at the Ateres Charna wedding hall in Rockland County confirmed that Aron was at the wedding, but no sign is seen of Kletzky. A color surveillance video taken later that night at a Sunoco gas station on the Palisades Interstate Parkway showed Aron and Kletzky getting out of Aron's car and going into the bathroom. The video was time-stamped 8:15 p.m.\n\nThere was no evidence that the victim had been sexually abused. Aron was unknown to Kletzky before meeting the boy on the street. Child abductions by strangers are extremely rare in New York State, with none of the 20,000 children who went missing in 2010 having been taken by a stranger, according to state statistics.\n\nKletzky's funeral, held on Wednesday in the parking lot of a Boro Park synagogue was attended by thousands of Orthodox Jews, many of whom traveled from throughout the Tri-State area to attend. Attendance was estimated at 8,000 by the Shomrim civilian patrol, and 10,000 by Arutz Sheva.\n\nLevi Aron is an Orthodox Jew who grew up in Brooklyn. His father, Jack, works at the Hasidic-owned B&H Photo in Brooklyn; his mother, Basya, died five or six years previously. Aron lived in the attic apartment of his parents' three-family home on the corner of Avenue C and East 2nd Street in the Kensington neighborhood. He was married twice; in 2004 he married Diana Diunov, an Israeli woman, and in 2007 he married Deborah M. Parnell of Tennessee, a divorced mother of two whom he had met online and with whom he moved to Memphis, where he worked as a security guard. Both marriages ended in divorce.\n\nAron worked as a clerk at a hardware-supply company in Brooklyn. He was described by his coworkers as quiet and socially awkward. Aron had injured his head when he was hit by a car while riding his bike at the age of 9 and suffered problems stemming from that accident. It is believed that this caused extreme shyness and neurotic behaviors with Aron in later life. He had no prior arrest record. He had been served with an Order of Protection in January 2007 and had received a fine for a seat belt violation and one speeding ticket. In Brooklyn, authorities cited a summons for public urination.\n\nAron appeared in Brooklyn Criminal Court on July 14, 2011, and pleaded not guilty. At the hearing, his lawyer stated that Aron \"suffers from hallucinations\" and \"hears voices\". The court ordered Aron to be sent to the prison ward at Bellevue Hospital Center for a psychiatric evaluation.\n\nAfter Aron had been hospitalized, his lawyers stated that he was \"seeking to quiet the voices in his head by listening to music\". They also described his demeanor as \"abnormal\".\n\nIn December 2011, another of Aron's attorneys, Howard Greenberg, sparked outrage when he remarked of his client, \"Look, everybody knows when blood relations have offspring, there can be genetic defects... There's inbreeding in that community\" – the latter referring to the Hasidic Jewish community of New York City.\n\nOn July 20, 2011, the office of the New York City medical examiner released autopsy results revealing that Kletzky had ingested a lethal mix of four different drugs and had then been smothered. The cause of death was determined to be intoxication from a combination of cyclobenzaprine (a muscle relaxant), quetiapine (an antipsychotic), and hydrocodone and acetaminophen (two analgesics), followed by smothering. Upon release of the autopsy results, the case was officially ruled a homicide.\n\nOn August 9, 2011, the New York City medical examiner's office revealed that Kletzky had ingested a fifth drug, Duloxetine, which is used for generalized anxiety disorder and as an antidepressant. The blood tests revealing this drug took a few weeks to process at an outside lab.\n\nHours after the autopsy results were released on July 20, a Brooklyn grand jury indicted Aron on eight counts of murder and kidnapping – including two counts of first-degree murder, three counts of second-degree murder, two counts of first-degree kidnapping, and one count of second-degree kidnapping – which carries a maximum sentence of life in prison without parole.\n\nA day after the indictment was handed down, one of Aron's lawyers, Gerard Marrone, resigned from the case, saying that he could not represent the defendant as \"the allegations were too horrific\". Attorney Jennifer McCann joined Pierre Bazile for the defense. The case was prosecuted by the Kings County (Brooklyn) District Attorney's Office. The lead prosecutor was veteran Assistant District Attorney Julie B. Rendelman of the Homicide Bureau. Ms. Rendelman was the attorney who successfully prosecuted Horace Moore for the stabbing murder of NYC bus driver Edwin Thomas. Also assigned to the case was Assistant District Attorney Linda Weinman.\n\nAron was declared competent to stand trial in an arraignment at the New York State Supreme Court in Brooklyn on August 4, 2011.\n\nResults of the psychiatric evaluation, obtained by Associated Press, indicate that Aron was diagnosed with an adjustment disorder. The suspect was said to be \"confused and apathetic\", with a \"'practically blank' personality\". In addition, the psychologist apperceived him as reserved, apathetic, sad and cooperative, and diagnosed a schizoid personality disorder. Details also emerged that Aron had a younger sister who died while institutionalized for schizophrenia.\n\nAron was held at Rikers Island on round-the-clock suicide watch. He gave his first media interview to the \"New York Post\" on August 12, 2011. He did not refer to Kletzky by name, and kept referring to the smothering and dismembering of the boy as \"the incident\". He did not explain why he took and kept the boy, saying, \"He looked familiar. I thought I knew him\".\n\nOn August 23, 2011, the State Supreme Court justice assigned to the case, Justice Neil J. Firetog, chided Aron's lawyers in court for discussing the case on their Facebook pages, accused them of leaking the court-ordered psychological examination to the press, and questioned their ability to handle such a complex case given their lack of experience. Pierre Bazile, who passed the bar in 2007, had defended only one homicide case, while Jennifer McCann had defended six cases, three of them ending in acquittal. A veteran criminal defense lawyer, Howard Greenberg, subsequently joined the defense team pro bono to offset the judge's criticism of lack of experience.\n\nOn October 24, 2011, Aron appeared at a brief hearing in the State Supreme Court via video conferencing. Outside the courtroom, his lawyers claimed that police forced Aron to write his 450-word confession, stating that he was not sane enough to be aware of his actions. They also told reporters that they were pursuing an insanity defense.\n\nIn November 2011, the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court denied Aron's counsel's request to move the trial to Suffolk County or The Bronx in light of unfavorable media coverage in Brooklyn. However, it reserved the right to allow the defense to re-apply for a change of venue after the jury pool was questioned.\n\nIn March 2012 Aron appeared in court via video conferencing while his attorneys scheduled a new trial date. In May 2012 he appeared before the court again via videoconferencing; the video showed that he had gained at least since his arrest.\n\nOn August 1, 2012, it was reported that prosecutors had struck a deal with the defense in which Aron would plead guilty in exchange for a sentence of at least 40 years to life in prison. The Kletzky family supported this decision, wanting to avoid reliving the murder if the case went to trial. On August 9, 2012, Aron changed his plea to guilty of one charge of second-degree murder and one charge of second-degree kidnapping at Brooklyn Supreme Court. He answered a series of questions from the judge in which he admitted to killing Leiby Kletzky. On August 29, 2012, Judge Neil Firetog sentenced Aron to 25 years to life on the second-degree murder charge and 15 years to life on the second-degree kidnapping charge. Aron would be eligible for parole in 2051, which includes credit for time served.\n\nOn August 17, 2011, Nachman Kletzky filed a $100 million civil lawsuit against Aron in Brooklyn Supreme Court, seeking damages for the \"abduction, kidnapping, torture, murder and dismemberment\" of his son. On August 23, Kletzky filed a $100 million civil suit against Aron's father, Jack, for neglecting to monitor his son or protect Leiby while the latter was in his home.\n\nIn the wake of the murder, State Assemblymen Dov Hikind and Peter Abbate and State Senator Diane Savino said they would introduce a bill called \"Leiby's Initiative\", which would grant a $500 annual tax credit to any New York City property owner who installs and maintains surveillance cameras on their property.\n\nNew York City Councilman David Greenfield has said he would propose \"Leiby's Law,\" a bill under which businesses could volunteer to be designated as safe places for children who are lost or otherwise in trouble. Employees would undergo background checks and business owners would put a green sticker in their store windows so children know it is a safe place to get help. On August 16, 2011, the Brooklyn District Attorney's office announced a similar program called \"Safe Stop\". So far, 76 stores have signed up to display a green \"Safe Haven\" sticker in their windows to help lost children.\n\nIn September 2013, Assemblyman Dov Hikind and State Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos announced the implementation of the Leiby Kletzky Security Initiative, which will provide the installation of 100 security cameras on public lampposts throughout the Midwood and Borough Park neighborhoods. Paid for by a $1 million state grant, the cameras will be maintained by Secure Watch 24, a private security firm and LLC controlled by Agudath Israel of America. Recorded data from the cameras will be retained for up to five years. According to Agudath Israel of America, camera footage will be accessed only by the New York City Police Department.\n\nOn July 20, 2011, relatives of Kletzky launched a website for the newly established Leiby Kletzky Memorial Fund, which aims to raise $1 million to help children and families in crisis and need. In its first day of operation, the website garnered $61,581 from 1,365 donors.\n\nIn early August, Hasidic singer Lipa Schmeltzer released a ballad called \"Leiby Forever\" and a seven-minute music video showing home movies of Kletzky growing up. After the beginning of the video, a CCTV footage of the abduction plays.\n\nIn June 2017, Levi Aron's brother, Tzvi, was found dead in the same house where Leiby Kletzky's body was discovered.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40915662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40915662", "title": "Niels Hertzberg (handball)", "text": "Niels Hertzberg (handball)\n\nNiels Christian Hertzberg (16 January 1941 - 1 March 2013) was the Norwegian sports official.\n\nHe was the secretary-general of the Norwegian Handball Federation from 1984 to 2003. He was credited as having the strongest influence on the development of the Norwegian Handball Federation. He was also married to former national team coach for women, Marit Breivik. He died in March 2013 in their vacation home in Brazil, most probably from a fall accident.\n"}
{"id": "34248726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34248726", "title": "Non-fatal offences against the person in English law", "text": "Non-fatal offences against the person in English law\n\nNon-fatal offences against the person, under English law, are generally taken to mean offences which take the form of an attack directed at another person, that do not result in the death of any person. Such offences where death occurs are considered homicide, whilst sexual offences are generally considered separately, since they differ substantially from other offences against the person in theoretical basis and composition. Non-fatal offences against the person mainly derive from the Offences against the Person Act 1861, although no definition of assault or battery is given there.\n\nOffences against the person include minor forms of battery (any unlawful touching of another person); its complimentary offence, assault (causing the apprehension of a battery, even when one has not yet occurred); and various more serious offences which are based on assault and battery (together called \"common assault\"). This includes assault occasioning actual bodily harm, where the victim suffers injuries such as bruising or skin abrasions (the converse being an injury that is \"transient and trifling\"); wounding (a piercing of all layers of the skin); and causing grievous bodily harm (injuries more serious than in actual bodily harm, for example broken bones). The latter two offences may be committed \"with intent\", meaning there is an additional \"mens rea\" component that makes the defendant more culpable for their actions. Whilst recklessness is sufficient for most offences against the person – that the defendant foresaw the risk of the proscribed injury occurring without necessarily intending it to happen – this is insufficient for crimes of intent.\n\nCommon to all crimes against the person is the infringement of the right to bodily integrity. It extends to the touching of clothing, for example, and where no physical harm actually results. However, if all touchings were criminalised, this would interfere with the right to liberty. It is the very touching, and not the harm, that is the violation of principle. This is related to the right to privacy under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The central statute on this topic is Offences against the Person Act 1861, which brought together a multitude of difference offences, with much overlap and inconsistent terminology. These include both the actual infliction and the threat of violence. Although criticised, the Act has not been replaced.\n\nIn the context of the law of attempts, the Crown Prosecution Service advises that \"where the evidence demonstrates that the suspect intended to cause an injury that is substantially more serious than that (if any) which was in fact caused, prosecutors should consider the circumstances of the case as a whole as well as the relevant sentencing guideline to determine the appropriate charge.\" \n\nA distinction is drawn between the offence of assault and that of battery. Assault is the \"apprehension\" of the possibility of immediate unlawful violence, and battery that of the \"infliction\" of such violence. Several proposals, including one from the Criminal Law Revision Committee in 1980 have proposed merging the offences. However, the distinction was confirmed in \"DPP v Little\" in 1992. There, the conflation of assault and battery was criticised as duplicitous. If D throws a punch at V, who dodges, this is likely to be an assault but not a battery; if V is attacked from behind, this may constitute a battery without an assault. Actions which constitute ordinary daily life are not considered assault or battery, for example, jostling on a crowded train. The term \"common assault\" is used to refer to either a technical assault or a battery.\n\nAssault is a summary offence in England and Wales, with the case heard only at a Magistrates' Court. Although \"R v Little\" considered assault a statutory offence, none of the statutes referred to contain any definition of assault. The \"actus reus\", endorsed in \"R v Ireland\", is any act by D that causes V to apprehend immediate and unlawful personal violence. The term \"force\" rather than \"violence\" is used by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS). As a definition, this has proven stable, but its interpretation has varied. The force must be unlawful – outside the realm of defensive or preventative force, for example. Consent of the victim may be enough to prevent the commission of a crime. There is to debate as to whether lack of consent is an element of the \"actus reus\", making it inherent to the commission of a crime, or whether consent is a defence. Andrew Simester and Bob Sullivan argue that the former is more correct, since lack on consent is vital to the crime; since the act may not constitute a harm even if enacted. The disregard for the victim's autonomy and privacy is the actionable part of the offence. The victim need not be frightened by the apprehension of violence, merely not want the person concerned to do it.\n\nAssault requires a positive act, not an omission. Mere lawful presence in a location is not enough to satisfy the conduct requirement; illegal trespass, however, is sufficient. John Cyril Smith has suggested that wilfully refusing to retract an inadvertent act that causes the victim to apprehend violence may constitute an assault by omission. It is arguable that there was once a rule that \"mere words\" could not constitute an assault, but the case of \"R v Ireland\" confirmed that even silent phone calls would be grounds for the charge of assault. \"R. v Constanza\" added threatening letters to this category.\n\nAlthough assault involves a threat of an immediate battery, the perpetrator need not actually intend to carry out that battery. It is enough that he, intentionally or recklessly, caused the victim to apprehend such an occurrence. The term \"immediate\" has also been used in different ways. Following \"Ireland\", it seems likely that even where the victim knew the defendant was some distance away, this may be sufficient. As Lord Steyn said there, \"what, if not the possibility of imminent personal violence, was the victim terrified about?\". This would widen the crime of assault considerably. It is perfectly conceivable that the victim was fearful, but did not believe an attack was imminent. That she actually apprehended \"immediate violence\", rather than merely \"immediately apprehended\", is doubtful. In \"Constanza\", it was sufficient for the prosecution to show that the victim feared an attack in the future, which may have been imminent. It also suggested that the anticipated harm could be psychological rather than physical.\n\n\"Blake v Barnard\" established a rule that conditional threats could not amount to an assault. However, the court's reliance on \"Tuberville v Savage\" was tenuous at best. Such threats would normally be considered assault.\n\nThe \"mens rea\" requirement is that the defendant must have intend to, or recklessly, cause the victim to fear the possibility of immediate unlawful violence. There is no authority that suggests that \"intend\" or \"recklessly\" ought to mean something from their normal meanings. \"Cunningham recklessness\" – that the defendant himself foresaw the risk of harm – is applied. Assault is a crime of \"basic intent\" for the purposes of the Majewski test concerning voluntary intoxication.\n\nThe defendant commits a battery if they intentionally or recklessly apply unlawful force to another, without their consent. It is subject to the same \"everyday life\" exception common to assault. Cases have included kissing, spitting and cutting someone's hair without their consent. This also includes contact with the victim's clothing, a rule dating back to 1845 in \"R v Day\". It is not necessary that the victim feels the touching.\n\nThe required causation may be quite oblique. As well as weaponry held in the hand, weaponry thrown is included, as is causing people to touch each other by creating a sense of panic. The general law on liability for omissions also applies to batteries, for example those of the continuing act (as in \"Fagan v MPC\") and of a duty of care. However, in \"R v Ireland\" the court ruled out psychological injury by means of a telephone as a form of battery, although it was not an important point in the case as other charges were brought. Poisoning is not a battery where there is no accompanying violence.\n\nThe case of \"R v Brown\" established a further requirement: hostility. This is not easily called an \"actus reus\" nor \"mens rea\" requirement. It was not clear what role it played in that case, but could apply to other cases as a way of clarifying the \"everyday behaviour\" guidance. It has been strongly criticised by Lord Goff and other judicial and academic writers. It could apply to future cases where the bodily harm was unintended or unforeseen.\n\nThe \"mens rea\" requirement for battery is similar to assault. It is the intention to apply unlawful force to another, or be reckless as to whether such force is applied. It employs \"Cunningham recklessness\" – that the defendant must have foreseen the risk of the infliction of unlawful force upon V. In theory, at least, combining the \"mens rea\" of battery with the \"actus reus\" of assault, or vice versa, is not a crime. The Majewski test is applied to cases of voluntary intoxication, as battery is also a crime of \"basic intent\" in this scenario.\n\nAssault occasioning actual bodily harm carries a maximum sentence of 5 years under section 47 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861. It is triable either way. Both assault (fear of violence) and battery (infliction of violence) are included, although it is possible to consider section 47 as creating two offences – one involving an assault, and one a battery. \"Occasioning\" is generally taken to mean \"causing\" although John Gardner has argued that it is wider than that. In discussing causation, 'frightened' people are not expected to act entirely rationally; instead, a relevant test is that of \"R v Roberts\". There, any conduct of the victim short of \"daft\" could be considered caused by the defendant's actions. Only the seriousness of the injury separates an assault from an assault occasioning actual bodily harm.\n\nThe concept of \"actual bodily harm\" is wide. Almost all injuries are included – for example, bruising or skin abrasions. Injuries are not included if they are \"transient or trifling\", but this did not cover even momentary unconsciousness. The wide range of injuries give prosecutors considerable discretion about which charge to bring against a defendant. Psychological injury is included, so long as it forms a recognised medical condition. Mere fright or anxiety is insufficient for actual bodily harm. It is limited only by the need for an actual assault or battery to have taken place.\n\nThere is no separate \"mens rea\" element from the assault or battery, making this a crime of constructive liability. This has been defended by John Gardner, a proponent of the moral threshold theory. However, this is opposed by Simester and Sullivan.\n\nSection 20 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 criminalises \"whosoever shall unlawfully and maliciously wound or inflict any grievous bodily harm upon any other person, either with or without any weapon or instrument\". The maximum penalty, five years, is the same as that for actual bodily harm, but a section 20 offence is considered more serious by the courts and the Crown Prosecution Service. A judge is free on the facts of the case to allow a jury find a defendant guilty of assault occasioning actual bodily harm where a defendant is charged with a section 20 offence.\n\nThe \"actus reus\" is the wound or infliction of grievous bodily harm (GBH). A \"wound\" is something that breaks all layers of the skin, and must have an external component – internal bleeding, however serious, is not a wound. Serious wounds would also fall under grievous bodily harm, but some qualifying wounds (a pin prick, for example) are very minor. Some wounds would therefore not qualify as grievous bodily harm.\n\nThe phrase \"really serious harm\" was used to describe grievous bodily harm in \"R v Metheram\". The case of \"R v Grundy\" confirmed that injuries should be taken in their totality; that many small injuries may form a serious harm. \"R v Bollom\" confirmed the \"Grundy\" approach, and also showed that grievous bodily harm against a child was likely to require less bodily harm than that against an adult. \"R v Burstow\" extended \"bodily harm\" to include psychological trauma if it formed a recognised serious mental condition. Simester \"et al\" said that this could have wide-reaching consequences, but it is unlikely to be taken to include commonplace occurrences (relationship breakups, verbal cruelty, broken promises) – in \"Burstow\", the conduct included a prolonged and intense campaign of harassment.\n\nFor a long time, \"R v Clarence\" was taken as an authority on the meaning of \"inflict\", which the court took to mean \"an assault or battery of which a wound or grievous bodily harm is the manifest immediate and obvious result\". This narrow definition was extended in \"R v Martin\" and \"R v Halliday\" to include, for example, injuries sustained during an attempt of the victim to flee. An injury is said to be \"inflicted\" if it is the result of an impact or percussion set in motion by the defendant; the injury must relate directly to the impact or percussion, but the impact or percussion may be an indirect effect of the defendant's actions. \"R v Burstow\" established that \"inflict\" was a near synonym of cause: in Lord Hope's view, they were synonymous, except that the outcome of the former must be unpleasant. This was applied in \"R v Dica\" and \"R v Konzani\", two cases of knowingly risking passing on HIV without explicit consent.\n\nThe \"mens rea\" element is that of \"malice\", which means either intention or recklessness. \"Cunningham recklessness\" is applied. However, for the purposes of recklessness, foresight of even minor harm is sufficient – it does not require foresight of serious harm. This has been criticised since it breaks the correspondence principle, that the \"mens rea\" should match the \"actus reus\" of an offence.\n\nThe crime of wounding with intent is created by section 18 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861. It reads, since amended, as:\n\"Whosoever shall unlawfully and maliciously by any means whatsoever wound or cause any grievous bodily harm to any person... with intent... to do some... grievous bodily harm to any person, or with intent to resist or prevent the lawful apprehension or detainer of any person...\". This creates four forms of the offence: unlawfully and maliciously wounding, with intent to either do grievous bodily harm (1) or resist arrest (2); and unlawfully and maliciously causing grievous bodily harm, with intent to either do grievous bodily harm (3) or resist arrest (4). Thus forms (1) and (3) differ from section 20 offences mainly in that there is a specific intention to cause serious harm rather than some harm, and they are therefore the more serious charges. On an indictment under section 18, the jury is open to convict under section 20 or section 47 if properly directed.\n\n\"Wounding\" and \"causing grievous bodily harm\" are defined in the same way as they are in the crime of maliciously wounding or inflicting grievous bodily harm. Grievous bodily harm includes serious psychological trauma and serious infection; however, these are less controversial here because of the inclusion of intent. Intent narrows the crime considerably, and the term \"inflict\" is not used. In form (3), intent can be simply decided in the case of a direct attack, or \"virtual certainty\", with knowledge of the virtual certainty – the \"Woollin\" principle. In form (1), where an injury does not amount to grievous bodily harm, intent to cause grievous bodily harm (in the advancement of a different cause) must be shown. Practically, the \"virtual certainty\" clause cannot come into force, since grievous bodily harm was not actually caused, by definition. In forms (2) and (4), the concept of \"malice\" has a role to play that it does not in (1) and (3). The defendant must foresee the risk of wounding or grievous bodily harm, where the core intent is to resist arrest. The defendant cannot be reckless to the resisting of arrest, it must be an intention. Concerning the requirement to resist a \"lawful\" arrest, the defendant only lacks the required \"mens rea\" if he believes in facts which, if true, would make the arrest unlawful; not just that he believes the facts as they are make the arrest illegal – a mistake of fact suffices, a mistake of law does not.\n\nThere also exist alternative forms of aggravated assault in English law, for example: assault or battery with intent to resist arrest (as above, the arrest must be lawful); and assault on, resistance to, and obstruction of constables. Under the Crime and Disorder Act 1998, it is also possible to commit a racially aggravated assault. This is where the commission of the assault in combination to hostility towards the victim, based on their race or believed race, or association with a race. \"Race\" includes skin colour, nationality, citizenship, and ethnic or national origins. Administering poison, either contrary to section 23 or 24 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861, is also an offence; as is false imprisonment – including unlawful arrest, kidnap and hostage situations. Legislation aimed at the possession or use of firearms may also come into this category, as may bomb hoaxes.\n\nThere are also offences of aggravated assault, created under the Offences against the Person Act 1861, that now go almost completely unused: for example, assaulting or obstructing a clergyman in the discharge of his duties, and assaulting a magistrate or other person in the exercise of his duties concerning the preservation of a vessel in distress or a wreck.\n\nAn assault is not caused if a defendant threatens to shoot the victim, but the victim is aware that the gun is not loaded or fake. However, it would be the \"actus reus\" of an assault if the victim wrongly believes the gun is, or may be, loaded. Since assault is a summary offence, no prosecutions take place for attempted assault. However, it is possible to commit attempts of aggravated forms of assault.\n\n"}
{"id": "22419884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22419884", "title": "Osterby Man", "text": "Osterby Man\n\nOsterby Man or the Osterby Head () is a bog body of which only the skull and hair survive. It was discovered in 1948 by peat cutters to the southeast of Osterby, Germany. The hair is tied in a Suebian knot. The head is at the State Archaeological Museum at Gottorf Castle in Schleswig, Schleswig-Holstein.\n\nThe head was discovered on 26 May 1948 by Otto and Max Müller of Osterby, who were cutting peat on their father's land, at . It was found approximately beneath the current ground level. The head was wrapped in fragments of a deerskin cape, which Max Müller noticed protruding from the peat. The find was reported to the museum in Schleswig; despite intensive searching by the brothers and others, no more of the body has been found.\n\nThe skull was wrapped in fragments of a deerskin cape and had been damaged by striking with a blunt object before being sunk in the bog.\n\nThe skull had been broken into several pieces. The acids in the bog have decalcified the bone, which has shrunk somewhat and is dark brown. The hair and small sections of scalp are well preserved, but the skin and other soft tissues of the face have disappeared. There is a large wound on the left side of the head, which may have been fatal: the skull had been depressed by a blow with a blunt object over an area approximately in diameter, and the bone of the left temple was shattered with splinters penetrating the brain area. The skull had also been deformed by the weight of the peat above it, but the facial area was generally well preserved. Skeletal evidence suggests a man 50 to 60 years of age. Hack marks on the second cervical vertebra show that the head was cut off. The skull was stabilised for exhibition by filling with gypsum.\n\nThe hair is thin and slightly wavy, long. It has been coloured a reddish brown by the acids in the bog; microscopic analysis showed that it had been dark blond and that the man had had some white hairs. In a re-examination in 2005, isotopic analysis showed that at least during his last year of life, the man ate meat remarkably rarely, and did not eat seafood. Parasitological analysis of the hair showed no head lice, unusual for the time. \nThe hair is unusually well preserved and is tied above the right temple in a Suebian knot. Tacitus describes this in Chapter 38 of his \"Germania\" as a characteristic of free men among the Germanic tribe of Suebi. The knot appears in several Roman depictions and on at least one other bog body, Dätgen Man (who wore his on the back of his head). Osterby has featured the Suebian knot on its coat of arms since 1998.\n\nThe skull was wrapped in fragments of a garment, measuring approximately , consisting of tanned pieces of leather sewn together. Microscopic analysis suggested on the basis of the hairs that they were from roe deer. The neck opening was lined with a strip of leather about wide. All seams had been sewn with small stitches in catgut. Some appeared to be repairs. Textile archaeologists identified the garment as a skin cape; similar cloaks or capes have been found with other archaeological finds, including Elling Woman, Haraldskær Woman, Dröbnitz Girl, Kayhausen Boy and Jührdenerfeld Man.\n\nPeter Löhr performed the anthropological analysis, which determined that the skull had shrunk while immersed in the bog. For his doctoral dissertation, he performed experiments on it involving repeated soaking and drying and detailed measurements; in his view, soaking caused it to swell to almost its original dimensions. Löhr's data included markedly shrunk teeth and the complete lower jaw associated with the skull, which has a protruding chin. However, more recent analysis has shown that in his original preparation of the skull for exhibition, Karl Schlabow added an unrelated lower jaw.\n\nThe Suebian knot indicates the man died in the Late Iron Age or the Roman period, and radiocarbon dating likewise indicates a date between 75 and 130 CE; however, the hair sample used was taken from Alfred Dieck's private collection and may thus be unreliable.\n\nOther Iron Age bog bodies have also been beheaded; the body of Dätgen Man, who also had a Suebian knot, was found several metres from his head. The beheading together with the fractured skull indicates deliberate execution by multiple methods. It is impossible to determine whether Osterby Man was sunk in the bog as a judicial punishment or a sacrifice, or whether his body was also deposited in the bog; but it has been suggested that his relatively advanced age may indicate an honorable death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6538595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6538595", "title": "Outline of transhumanism", "text": "Outline of transhumanism\n\nThe following outline provides an overview of and a topical guide to transhumanism:\n\nTranshumanism – international intellectual and cultural movement that affirms the possibility and desirability of fundamentally transforming the human condition by developing and making widely available technologies to eliminate aging and to greatly enhance human intellectual, physical, and psychological capacities.\nTranshumanist thinkers study the potential benefits and dangers of emerging and hypothetical technologies that could overcome fundamental human limitations, as well as study the ethical matters involved in developing and using such technologies. They predict that human beings may eventually be able to transform themselves into beings with such greatly expanded abilities as to merit the label \"posthuman\".\n\nTranshumanism can be described as all of the following:\n\n\nNeophilia – strong affinity for novelty and change. Transhumanist neophiliac values include:\n\nSurvival – survival, or self-preservation, is behavior that ensures the survival of an organism. It is almost universal among living organisms. Humans differ from other animals in that they use technology extensively to improve chances of survival and increase life expectancy.\n\n\nTranshumanist politics\n\n\nThe term \"transhumanism\" is largely credited as being coined by Sir Julian Huxley in 1957, a zoologist and prominent humanist. \n\n\nHuman enhancement technologies\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEmerging technologies – contemporary advances and innovation in various fields of technology, prior to or early in their diffusion. They are typically in the form of progressive developments intended to achieve a competitive advantage. Transhumanists believe that humans can and should use technologies to become more than human. Emerging technologies offer the greatest potential in doing so. Examples of developing technologies that have become the focus of transhumanism include:\n\nTechnological evolution –\n\n\nHypothetical technology – technology that does not exist yet, but the development of which could potentially be achieved in the future. It is distinct from an emerging technology, which has achieved some developmental success. A hypothetical technology is typically not proven to be impossible. Many hypothetical technologies have been the subject of science fiction.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTranshumanism in fiction – Many of the tropes of science fiction can be viewed as similar to the goals of transhumanism. Science fiction literature contains many positive depictions of technologically enhanced human life, occasionally set in utopian (especially techno-utopian) societies. However, science fiction's depictions of technologically enhanced humans or other posthuman beings frequently come with a cautionary twist. The more pessimistic scenarios include many dystopian tales of human bioengineering gone wrong.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSome people who have made a major impact on the advancement of transhumanism:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7373810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7373810", "title": "Robotman (Robert Crane)", "text": "Robotman (Robert Crane)\n\nRobotman is a Golden Age DC Comics superhero. He first appeared in \"Star-Spangled Comics\" #7 (April 1942) and was created by Jerry Siegel and Leo Nowak. Despite his name, Robotman is not a robot; he is a cyborg.\n\nRobert Crane is a scientist whose brain was placed inside a robotic body after he had been fatally shot. Since Crane had to be legally dead for his assailants to be charged with murder, he created a civilian identity as Paul Dennis, accomplished with lifelike face mask and gloves. As Robotman, he was a member of the World War II-era team, the All-Star Squadron. He also fought crime solo with help from his canine sidekick, Robotdog. His stories were mostly lighthearted in nature, featuring whimsical situations and plenty of comedy relief (usually provided by Robotdog).\n\nIn 1951, Crane helped Charles McNider, the original Doctor Mid-Nite, make the devices McNider needed to become Starman. McNider used the devices in that guise for a half a year and then gave them to David Knight, a Starman from the future who used them for the rest of the year before returning to the future and dying there.\n\nRobotman was revealed to have been one of several other heroes involved in the first meeting of the charter members of the Justice League of America prior to the official forming of the team, an event which was suppressed from the public record.\n\nRobotman's career came to an end by unique means. His former lab assistant, Charles Grayson, discovered that he was dying of a brain disease which left the rest of his tissues unharmed. He therefore bequeathed his body to Robotman to give him the possibility of a new life. Robotman had been trapped in suspended animation after being caught in a rockslide. His mechanical body shut down to preserve his brain, and it took twenty years for enough power to build up for him to reactivate and free himself. A power surge revived him, and after adjusting to being twenty years in the future, he learned what Grayson had done for him and gladly regained the humanity he'd thought lost forever.\n\nNo longer a cyborg, he resurfaced in the first issues of \"Stars and S.T.R.I.P.E.\" and lent Pat Dugan some components of his own disassembled robotic body in order to perfect the S.T.R.I.P.E. suit of armor.\n\nIn the Elseworlds series \"The Golden Age\", Robotman figures prominently as a troubled hero and later villain. The series depicts that after World War II Robotman purposefully ignores his humanity, developing an inhuman mental state, focusing on being a robot. He is depicted stopping a robbery with deadly force, and later being approached by Tex Thompson (Mr. America), the current form of the Ultra-Humanite. It is unsaid what the Ultra-Humanite promises or uses to recruit Robotman, but Robotman becomes his unquestioning servant, committing murder, and often staying close to Thompson during his political appearances. Thompson even berates him without any objections from Robotman. Publicly, Robotman is hailed as one of the few heroes to go public and serve with Thompson. In the final battle Robotman brutally kills Miss America before she reveals Thompson is the Ultra-Humanite. An enraged Hourman rips off one of Robotman's arms and finishes Miss America's public accusation. While the other heroes face Dynaman, a transformed Dan the Dyna-Mite, Paula Brooks (a reformed villain, the Tigress) and Lance Gallant (Captain Triumph), who had become lovers over the course of the story, confront and defeat Robotman. During their fight Robotman states he always knew the Ultra-Humanite was in Tex Thompson's body and that he does not care. In the end, Gallant, refusing to transform into Captain Triumph, shoves one of the Tigress' wooden crossbow bolts further into Robotman's head. This causes Robotman to explode and fatally electrocutes Gallant, much to the Tigress' and Gallant's deceased brother's sorrow.\n\nIn the alternate timeline of the \"Flashpoint\" event, Robert Crane is a human scientist, never becoming a Robotman in World War II. Recently Robert's government services are shutting the Project M down of Frankenstein and the Creature Commandos. In the modern era, Robert Crane is still alive and now a doctor, and he helps the government revive G.I. Robot to join the soldiers to eliminate Frankenstein and the Creatures of the Unknown after they escape from the lab facility.\n\n"}
{"id": "2399636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2399636", "title": "Sapayoa", "text": "Sapayoa\n\nThe sapayoa or broad-billed sapayoa (\"Sapayoa aenigma\") is a suboscine passerine found in lowland rainforests in Panama and north-western South America. As the epithet \"aenigma\" (\"the enigma\") implies, its relationships have long been elusive. It is easy to overlook, but appears to be common in a wide range and is not considered threatened by the IUCN.\n\nThe sapayoa was formally described by the German ornithologist Ernst Hartert in 1903 under the present binomial name \"Sapayoa aenigma\".\nIt has always been considered a monotypic genus, Sapayoa, and historically regarded as a New World suboscine; in particular, it was assigned to the manakin family (Pipridae). However, the species was listed as \"incertae sedis\" (position uncertain) in the Sibley-Ahlquist taxonomy, because\n\"preliminary DNA-DNA hybridization comparisons ... indicate that this species is either a relative of the Old World Eurylaimidae or a sister group of all other Tyrannida, as suggested by earlier biochemical studies ... In any event, it is not a close relative of manakins or any other recent tyrannoid.\"\n\nMore recent research suggests that it is not a New World suboscine at all, but an Old World suboscine. In 2004, it was shown that the sapayoa is an outlier to the New World suboscines. In an earlier analysis based on nDNA myoglobin intron 2 and GAPDH intron 11 sequence data, the authors found the sapayoa \n\"as a deep branch in the group of broadbills and pittas of the Old World tropics.\"\n\nAccordingly, the sapayoa would be the last surviving New World species of a lineage that evolved in Australia-New Guinea when Gondwana was in the process of splitting apart. The sapayoa's ancestors are hypothesized to have reached South America via the Western Antarctica Peninsula.\n\nNowadays, the sapoyoa is sometimes placed in the family Eurylaimidae with the broadbills. Others tentatively place the sapayoa in the asity family Philepittidae otherwise found only in Madagascar and sometimes included in the broadbill family.\n\nHowever, the divergence between the broadbills and the sapayoa found in the 2003 study is only slightly less deep than that between the sapayoa and the pittas. It is even possible though unlikely that the present species is actually closer to the pittas than to the broadbills. Consequently, it is now placed in its own monotypic family, Sapayoidae.\n\nThe sapayoa is a small, olive-colored bird, somewhat paler below and with a yellowish throat. Its habitus resembles a bigger, longer-tailed, broader-billed female manakin. It is rare to uncommon in the forest understory, favoring ravines and small streams. It is usually seen in pairs or mixed-species flocks. It spends long periods perching, then sallies up to pick fruit or catch insects, on foliage or in mid air, with its flat, wide bill in a way reminiscent of flatbills.\n\nThe sapayoa builds a nest suspended from a branch usually above a stream. It is a pear shaped structure with the larger end at the top and fibres hanging beneath. The entrance is at the side.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22199652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22199652", "title": "Scott Dyleski", "text": "Scott Dyleski\n\nScott Edgar Dyleski (born October 30, 1988 in San Francisco, California) was convicted of murdering his neighbor, Pamela Vitale, the wife of prominent attorney Daniel Horowitz. He received the maximum penalty allowed by the law, life in prison without parole. As a juvenile at the time of the murder, he did not qualify for the death penalty. The murder was committed on October 15, 2005, when Dyleski was 16 years old. He is currently serving his sentence in California State Prison, Corcoran.\n\nDyleski was born in San Francisco, California to Kenneth Dyleski and Esther Fielding. His parents separated when he was three years old, and Dyleski was reared by his mother. During elementary school, Dyleski moved with his mother to Lafayette, California, and began living in the home of another family, with whom they had long been friends. Dyleski attended Lafayette public schools, including Acalanes High School, where he dressed in uncommon clothing such as trench coats and was described as \"a nice kid\" by a fellow student.\n\nOn October 15, 2005, Dyleski's neighbor Pamela Vitale was found murdered in her home. She was found lying in the entryway just inside the front door and had been bludgeoned to death. Five days later, on October 20, 2005, Dyleski was arrested on suspicion of committing the murder.\n\nInitially, Dyleski was represented by attorney Thomas McKenna. He later asked to be removed from the case, because he defended the driver of a car that killed Dyleski's sister and another passenger in 2002. Dyleski was then represented by Ellen Leonida, a public defender. Dyleski pleaded not guilty.\n\nInvestigators believe Dyleski and his friend, Robin Croen, planned to grow marijuana in Scott Dyleski's closet, with Dyleski in charge of raising money, according to Croen, who was granted immunity for testifying. He testified that Dyleski used stolen credit card information belonging to his neighbors and used the cards to order lighting equipment. He also testified that his role in the credit card scam was researching what equipment to order. Croen actually constructed order forms from websites that he claims he then sent to Dyleski. According to prosecutors, one of Dyleski's orders used the credit card information for Karen Schneider, but mistakenly used Vitale's address as the address to bill, and his own address as the ship-to address. The lighting company refused to process the order, suspecting it was fraudulent. Dyleski told Croen that he would \"take care of it\" and, subsequently, he made one more attempt by calling the credit card company.\n\nAuthorities believe Dyleski was surprised by Vitale during a burglary of her home. However, Dyleski's girlfriend, Jena Reddy testified at trial that Dyleski had talked about beating and breaking the necks of children and was curious about how the human body would function without certain organs. They said he killed Vitale by striking her numerous times in the head, possibly with a rock, and then carved a symbol into her back. During the trial, prosecutor Harold Jewett tried to establish that the symbol found on the victim's back closely resembled the letter \"H\" in the word \"hate\" from a bumper sticker reading \"I'm for the separation of Church and Hate\", which was seized from Dyleski's bedroom. The coroner's autopsy report describes the marks on Vitale's back as an \"H-shaped figure cut into skin of posterior torso\" and \"3 intersecting superficial incisions... forming an H-shaped pattern with extension\". Other reports indicate that the symbol was a Cross of Lorraine.\n\nAt the conclusion of the preliminary hearing, judge Mary Ann O'Malley ruled that prosecutors had enough evidence for trial. Dyleski was arraigned on an additional charge of first-degree residential burglary and he entered a new plea of not guilty to all the charges. His mother was accused of helping her son destroy evidence, but the charge was dropped under the condition that she testify truthfully. Burglary was not presented as a motive during the trial and, in fact, it was stated that nothing had been taken. At trial, Daniel Horowitz said he had never gone through his wife's financial records to see if anything was amiss.\n\nJury selection began in July 2006 in the courtroom of judge Barbara Zuniga, who became the trial judge after defense attorney Ellen Leonida made a peremptory challenge against judge Mary Ann O'Malley on the grounds that the jurist was \"prejudiced against the interest of the defendant\". Attorneys provided contrasting views of Dyleski in their opening statements. Prosecutor Harold Jewett said Dyleski identified with gothic symbols and art that depicted violence and stabbed and beat Vitale. Leonida described her client as a gentle kid whose friends know he isn't a killer and instead valued human and animal rights.\n\nDuring the trial, the Nickelodeon animated television series \"Invader Zim\" was cited. The prosecution asserted that the defendant had a fascination with images of body parts. They drew attention to comments he had made after watching the episode \"Dark Harvest\", in which the alien Zim collects human organs in an attempt to appear more human. Witnesses for the defense said that the comments were made in jest.\n\nAt the end of August attorneys gave closing arguments, capping several weeks of testimony. The prosecutor called to the stand Dyleski's housemates, mother, girlfriend, friend, a forensic pathologist, a DNA expert and several criminalists. Lawyer Gloria Allred represented Jena Reddy, Dyleski's girlfriend. She told the jury that while Dyleski never admitted or denied killing his neighbor, he told her he would take the blame to protect her and his best friend. DNA evidence showed Vitale's blood was found on Dyleski's belongings, the DNA of both Vitale and Dyleski was found on the ski mask worn during the murder, and his DNA was found on the bottom of her foot (17 out of 17 markers matched). A shoe print at the murder scene was determined by the jury to match shoes belonging to Dyleski. Jason Kwast, another criminalist, testified that the pattern of bloody footprints found on a plastic lid that was discovered in Vitale's house matched the pattern of the bottom of Land's End shoes belonging to Dyleski. A chilling to-do list was purported to have been written by Dyleski. Leonida called a number of Dyleski's friends to serve as character witnesses. Dyleski exercised his right to remain silent and did not testify. No DNA experts were called to rebut the prosecution's DNA evidence.\n\nScott Dyleski was found guilty of all the charges against him: first-degree murder, the special circumstance of murder in the commission of a first-degree residential burglary, first-degree residential burglary and an enhancement for using a dangerous weapon to bludgeon Vitale. He was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole. He was held in juvenile hall until his 18th birthday on October 30, 2006 (about one month after sentencing) and was then transferred to San Quentin Prison. He was kept out of the general population while his case was evaluated and was then transferred to Kern Valley State Prison several months later. In 2009, the Court of Appeal justices upheld the conviction and noted, \"The defendant in this case committed a truly heinous crime. Putting on a dark mask and gloves, and arming himself with a rock and a knife, he invaded the home of a complete stranger to him. Without any provocation, he viciously set upon Pamela Vitale, raining blow after blow on her as she tried to fight him off.\" The court also noted that even as \"Vitale lay motionless and near death, defendant was still not done with her. He put away his rock and pulled out a knife. He pulled Vitale's T-shirt up and used the knife to draw some type of mark or symbol on Vitale's back. He then turned Vitale over and stabbed deep into her midsection, leaving a gaping wound in her abdomen.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29089", "title": "Snuff film", "text": "Snuff film\n\nA snuff film, or snuff movie, is \"a movie in a purported genre of movies in which a person is actually murdered or commits suicide\". It may or may not be made for financial gain, but is supposedly \"circulated amongst a jaded few for the purpose of entertainment\". Some filmed records of executions and murders exist, but in those cases, the death was not specifically staged for financial gain or entertainment.\n\nThe first known use of the term \"snuff movie\" is in a 1971 book by Ed Sanders, \"The Family: The Story of Charles Manson's Dune Buggy Attack Battalion\". He alleges that The Manson Family was involved in making such a film in California to record their murders.\n\nThe noun \"snuff\" originally meant the part of a candle wick that has already burned; the verb \"snuff\" meant to cut this off, and by extension to extinguish or kill. The word has been used in this sense in English slang for hundreds of years. It was defined in 1874 as a \"term very common among the lower orders of London, meaning to die from disease or accident\".\n\nAccording to Geoffrey O'Brien, \"whether or not commercially distributed 'snuff' movies actually exist, the possibility of such movies is implicit in the stock B-movie motif of the mad artist killing his models, as in \"A Bucket of Blood\" [1959], \"Color Me Blood Red\" [1965], or \"Decoy for Terror\" [1967]\" also known as \"Playgirl Killer\". The concept of \"snuff films\" being made for profit became more widely known with the commercial film \"Snuff\" (1976). This low-budget exploitation horror film, originally titled \"Slaughter\", was directed by Michael and Roberta Findlay. In an interview decades later, Roberta Findlay said the film's distributor Allan Shackleton had read about snuff films being imported from South America and retitled \"Slaughter\" to \"Snuff\", to exploit the idea; he also added a new ending that depicted an actress being murdered on a film set. The promotion of \"Snuff\" on its second release suggested it featured the murder of an actress: \"The film that could only be made in South America... where life is CHEAP\", but that was false advertising. Shackleton put out false newspaper clippings that reported a citizens group's crusading against the film and hired people to act as protesters to picket screenings.\n\nThe first two films in the Japanese \"Guinea Pig\" series are designed to look like snuff films; the video is grainy and unsteady, as if recorded by amateurs. The sixth film in the series, \"Mermaid in a Manhole\", allegedly served as an inspiration for Japanese serial killer Tsutomu Miyazaki, who murdered several preschool girls in the late 1980s.\n\nIn 1991, actor Charlie Sheen became convinced that \"Flower of Flesh and Blood\" (1985), the second film in the series, depicted an actual homicide and contacted the FBI. The Bureau initiated an investigation but closed it after the series' producers released a \"making of\" film demonstrating the special effects used to simulate the murders.\n\nThe Italian director Ruggero Deodato was charged after rumors that the depictions of the killing of the main actors in his film \"Cannibal Holocaust\" (1980) were real. He was able to clear himself of the charges after the actors made an appearance in court.\n\nOther than graphic gore, the film contains several scenes of sexual violence and the genuine deaths of six animals onscreen and one off screen, issues which find \"Cannibal Holocaust\" in the midst of controversy to this day. It has also been claimed that \"Cannibal Holocaust\" is banned in over 50 countries, although this has never been verified. In 2006, \"Entertainment Weekly\" magazine named \"Cannibal Holocaust\" as the 20th most controversial film of all-time.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "3028902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3028902", "title": "Stay of execution", "text": "Stay of execution\n\nA stay of execution is a court order to temporarily suspend the execution of a court judgment or other court order. The word \"execution\" does not necessarily mean the death penalty; it refers to the imposition of whatever judgment is being stayed. \n\nA stay can be granted automatically by operation of law or conventionally, when the parties in a civil or criminal case agree that no execution shall occur for a certain period. If a party appeals a decision, any judgment issued by the original court may be stayed until the appeal is resolved.\n\nIn cases where the death penalty has been imposed, a stay of execution is often sought to defer the execution of the convicted person. This may occur if new evidence is discovered that will exonerate the convicted person or in attempts to have the sentence commuted to life imprisonment. In the United States, all death sentences are automatically stayed pending a direct review by an appeals court. If the death sentence is found to have been legally sound, the stay is lifted.\n\nOne example of a stay of execution in the death penalty context was the James Autry case. Autry was already strapped down to the execution table in Texas on October 4, 1983 when the order came to stop the execution. He was executed a few months later, on March 14, 1984.\n\nU.S. District Judge Nanette Laughrey granted a stay of execution on November 19, 2013 in response to a motion by the lawyers of the convicted Joseph Paul Franklin that use of the drug phenobarbital in a lethal injection would constitute cruel and unusual punishment. The following day, US Supreme Court upheld an appeal court's decision to lift the stay of execution. Franklin was put to death on November 20, 2013.\n"}
{"id": "6170654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6170654", "title": "Takashi Koshimoto", "text": "Takashi Koshimoto\n\nTakashi Koshimoto (越本 隆志, born January 5, 1971, in Fukuoka, Japan) is a former Japanese professional boxer in the featherweight (126 lb) division. He is a former WBC world featherweight champion.\n\nKoshimoto's parents divorced shortly after he was born, and Koshimoto was raised single-handedly by his father. He played baseball during his early teens, but took up boxing when his father founded a boxing gym in his local town. His father would be his trainer throughout his amateur and professional career. His amateur record was 6-6 (6 RSC).\n\nKoshimoto made his debut in November 1992. In 1996, he won the Japanese featherweight title, which he defended 6 times before returning.\n\nIn January, 2001, he challenged Freddie Norwood for the WBA featherweight title, but lost by 9th-round TKO. This was his first professional loss. Later that year, he won the OPBF featherweight title, which he defended 7 times before returning.\n\nKoshimoto got his second world title shot on January 29, 2006, fighting WBC featherweight champion Injin Chi. He won by 12-round decision, becoming the oldest Japanese boxer to win a world title, at 35 years of age. Koshimoto was paid almost nothing for the fight, since his gym had funded all the money needed for the title match.\n\nOn July 30, 2006, he fought WBC Youth Champion Rodolfo López for his first defense, losing by 7th-round TKO. Koshimoto was hospitalized after the fight, and promptly announced his retirement. His record was 39-2-2 (17KOs).\n\nHis father and trainer, Hidetake Koshimoto, was head of the Fukuoka Boxing Gym, and he replaced his father after his retirement. He currently trains aspiring boxers at the gym.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14946407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14946407", "title": "The Lucifer Principle", "text": "The Lucifer Principle\n\nThe Lucifer Principle is a 1995 book by Howard Bloom, in which the author argues that social groups, not individuals, are the primary \"unit of selection\" on genes and human psychological development. He states that both competition between groups and competition between individuals shape the evolution of the genome. Bloom \"explores the intricate relationships among genetics, human behavior, and culture\" and argues that \"evil is a by-product of nature's strategies for creation and that it is woven into our most basic biological fabric\". It sees selection (i.e. through violent competition) as central to the creation of the 'superorganism' of society. It also focuses on competition between individuals for position in the 'pecking order' and competition between groups for standing in pecking orders of groups. The Lucifer Principle shows how ideas are vital in creating cohesion and cooperation in these pecking order battles. Says \"The Lucifer Principle\": \"Superorganism, ideas and the pecking order...these are the primary forces behind much of human creativity and earthly good.\"\n\nReviews of the book saw it as 'ambitious' and 'disturbing' in its conclusions that societies based on individual freedom might succumb to systems such as communism or Islamic fundamentalism. \"The Washington Post\" said that \"Readers will be mesmerized by the mirror Bloom holds to the human condition... He draws on a dozen years of research into a jungle of scholarly fields...and meticulously supports every bit of information...\" while Chet Raymo in the \"Boston Globe\" termed it \"a string of rhetorical firecrackers that challenge our many forms of self-righteousness\".\n\nBloom later wrote that he and his publisher had been threatened by Islamic groups who objected to aspects of the book. He claimed that \"Arab pressure groups asked ever so politely that \"The Lucifer Principle\" be withdrawn from print and that nothing that I write be published again. They offered to boycott my publisher's products—all of them—worldwide. And they backed their warning with a call for my punishment in seventeen Islamic countries.\" Bloom states that the attorney for the Authors Guild wrote to his publishers, warning of an author boycott if the book was pulled from the shelves. The publishers asked Bloom to rewrite a chapter on Islamic violence, which led to the creation of 358 lines of footnotes attesting to the facts he presented within it, that what Bloom wrote about Islam in \"The Lucifer Principle\" is based on expertise. Bloom is a frequent guest on Iran's Press-TV, Iran's Alalam-TV, Saudi Arabia's KSA-2-TV, and even on Syria's Ekhbariya-TV.\n\n"}
{"id": "24126798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24126798", "title": "The Nature of True Virtue", "text": "The Nature of True Virtue\n\nA Dissertation Concerning the Nature of True Virtue is a work by American Christian reformer, theologian, author and, pastor Jonathan Edwards originally published posthumously in 1765. The work was published jointly with \"A Dissertation Concerning the End for Which God Created the World\".\n\nIn \"Virtue\", Edwards describes his views on the different levels of virtue, specifically \"common morality\" and \"true (saving) virtue.\" God, Edwards argues, had in mind as the end for his creation of the world His own glory and not human happiness. Thus, true virtue does not arise from self-love or from any earth-bound selflessness (these were two common views at the time) but from a desire to see God's glory displayed above all. Love of self, family, or nation is good only to the extent that it magnifies the glory of God.\n\n\"The Nature of True Virtue\", and its companion work, \"A Dissertation Concerning the End for Which God Created the World\", are still popular works today. Modern theologian John Piper, who extensively studied the works of Edwards while at Seminary, credits the work with awakening in him \"a deep longing to be a good man.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "431047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=431047", "title": "USS Golet", "text": "USS Golet\n\nUSS \"Golet\" (SS-361), a \"Gato\"-class submarine, was the only ship of the United States Navy to be named for the golet, a California trout. Her keel was laid down by the Manitowoc Shipbuilding Company of Manitowoc, Wisconsin. She was launched on 1 August 1943 sponsored by Mrs. Wiley, wife of United States Senator Alexander Wiley of Wisconsin, and commissioned on 30 November 1943 with Lieutenant Commander James M. Clement in command.\n\n\"Golet\" was initially ordered with the \"Balao\"-class. However, Manitowoc did not receive the drawings for this class from Electric Boat in time to build SS-361 through SS-364 to the new design, so they were built as \"Gato\" class. Thus, in some references, these boats are listed with the \"Balao\" class.\n\n\"Golet\" departed Manitowoc 19 December 1943 via the Mississippi River for New Orleans, Louisiana, arriving 28 December. After shakedown training at Panama and final battle practice in Hawaiian waters, she departed Pearl Harbor on 18 March 1944 for her maiden war patrol off the Kurile Islands chain, Southern Hokkaidō and Eastern Honshū, Japan. Severe combinations of fog, rain, and ice were encountered and only one ship worth a torpedo came into view. This enemy proved too fast for \"Golet\" to close to torpedo range; she returned to Midway Island on 3 May 1944.\n\nLieutenant Commander James S. Clark took command of \"Golet\", departed Midway Island on 28 May 1944 to patrol off northern Honshū, Japan, and was never heard from again.\n\n\"Golet\" had been scheduled to depart her area on 5 July and was expected at Midway Island about 12 July or 13 July. She failed to acknowledge a message sent her on 9 July and was presumed lost 26 July 1944.\n\nJapanese antisubmarine records available after the war revealed that \"Golet\" was the probable victim of a Japanese antisubmarine attack made 14 June 1944. These records mention that the attack brought up cork, rafts, and other debris and a heavy pool of oil, all evidence of the sinking of a submarine. See also List of U.S. Navy losses in World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "587393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=587393", "title": "Whangdoodle", "text": "Whangdoodle\n\nThe Whangdoodle is a fanciful creature in folklore and children's literature, most notably used by British authors Roald Dahl and Julie Andrews. Popularized by a sermon parody attributed to William P. Brannan as \"Where the lion roareth and the whangdoodle mourneth for her first-born,\" published in \"The Harp of a Thousand Strings: Or, Laughter for a Lifetime\" (1858).\nWhangdoodle is also an earlier term for a \"fanciful formation\" or a \"gadget . . . thing for which the correct name is not known.\"\n\nIn Roald Dahl's book \"The Minpins\", one of the main characters is warned by his mother against a forest where Whangdoodles live.\n\nOne of the firemen of the book refers to the centipede as a Whangdoodle.\n\nIn \"Charlie and the Chocolate Factory\", Willy Wonka mentions that he saved the Oompa Loompas from Whangdoodles and various other monsters.\n\nA different Whangdoodle is described in the children's novel \"The Last of the Really Great Whangdoodles\" by singer and actress Dame Julie Andrews (under her married name of Julie Edwards): an intelligent, ungulate-like character capable of changing color to suit its emotions, from whose hind legs grow a new and different set of bedroom slippers each year. It is introduced to the protagonists Ben, Tom, and Lindy, and thus to the reader, by the geneticist 'Professor Savant', a scholar of the Whangdoodle and its secret domain. Attempting to visit both, the scientist and children are opposed by the antagonist 'Prock' (the Whangdoodle's second-in-command), until his resources are exhausted by their tenacity. With Prock persuaded to grant their passage, the children discover that the Whangdoodle is oppressed by want of a mate, and convince Savant to create the latter. With this done, the two Whangdoodles are wedded at a great celebration, and the children return to their home.\n\nSome versions of the song \"The Big Rock Candy Mountain\" include a mention of a Whangdoodle singing in the titular hobo's paradise. This is the case in the version written down and arranged by Charles and Ruth Seeger. This version is used in the Frederic Rzewski composition for violin, piano, and percussion, entitled 'Whangdoodles'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55588064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55588064", "title": "William de Abernethy, 2nd Baron of Saltoun", "text": "William de Abernethy, 2nd Baron of Saltoun\n\nSir William de Abernethy, 2nd Baron of Saltoun was a 13th-14th century Scottish baron and noble.\n\nWilliam was the son of William Abernethy, 1st Baron of Saltoun. He swore fealty to King Edward I of England at Birgham in 1290 and again at Berwick in 1296. He was a signatory of the Declaration of Arbroath in 1320. \n\nWilliam is known to have had the following known issue:\n\n"}
{"id": "19452301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19452301", "title": "Yusuf İsmail", "text": "Yusuf İsmail\n\nYusuf İsmail (1857 – July 4, 1898), also widely known as Youssouf Ishmaelo, was a Turkish professional wrestler who competed in Europe and the United States as Yusuf Ismail the Terrible Turk during the 1890s. During his lifetime, his native Turks knew him as \"Şumnulu Yusuf Pehlivan\". However, writer Rıza Tevfik posthumously awarded him the honorific \"Koca\" (\"great\"), and thus he was later remembered as \"Koca Yusuf\".\n\nWidely known for his massive size and brute strength, he was recognized as one of the top three strongmen in the world by Alan Calvert, pioneer of American weight training, and photographer Edmond Desbonnet during the turn of the century. Prior to his arrival in the United States, he remained undefeated in his near four-year career and successfully challenged Evan \"Strangler\" Lewis for the American Heavyweight Championship in 1898. Yusuf Ismail was the original wrestler to be known as \"the Terrible Turk\", but several others, including Kızılcıklı Mahmut (promoted as his son) and Armenian-American Robert Manoogian, also used the name throughout the first half of the 20th century.\n\nLittle is known of his early life prior to his first wrestling appearance in 1894, however, according to Scottish wrestling historian William Baxter, Yusuf Ismail was born Youssuf Ishmaelo in Bulgaria (then part of the Ottoman Empire) in 1857. In \"A Pictorial History of Wrestling\", the English wrestling writer Graeme Kent wrote that Yusuf Ismail was not Turkish, but French. Ismail first came to prominence when he won the Kırkpınar Tournament in 1887. Edmond Desbonnet claimed in his book \"Les Rois de la Lutte\" (1910) that the Turkish invasion began in 1894 after a wrestler named Joseph Doublier was defeated by a rival, Sabès. In search of someone who could defeat Sabès, Doublier visited Turkey and brought back three wrestlers: Kara Osman, Nurullah Hasan, and the 6'2\", 250-pound Yusuf Ismail. Doublier had also brought Katrancı Mehmet Pehlivan and Kurtdereli Mehmet Pehlivan to Paris a while before. In his Paris debut, Ismail defeated Sabès in four seconds. Sabès had attempted to use a front belt hold, but Ismail withstood the hold and pinned him using a chokehold.\n\nIsmail spent the next three years in France, where he dominated opponents. A colorful figure, he was also known for his fierce pride. When rivals Antonio Pierri and Tom Cannon threatened to bring in a wrestler to defeat him, Ismail reportedly said he would cut his own throat if he was ever beaten. His match against another fellow Turk, Ibrahim Mahmut, was said to be one of the \"most brutal bouts ever seen on the mat\" at the Cirque d'Hiver in Paris. Ismail became so enraged during the match that he tore at Mahmut's nostrils, broke his ribs, and twisted his arms. Although referee Tom Cannon had attempted to stop the match, only the intervention of a police inspector and six officers along with several spectators were able to separate the two. Kara Osman had been originally scheduled to face Ismail but had fallen ill, and Mahmut had taken his place. According to a rumor heard by French promoter Joseph Doublier, Osman had actually withdrawn from the match because he feared for his life because of an unspecified grudge between Ismail and himself.\n\nHe continued to be managed by Doublier until 1898, when Antonio Pierri took him to New York. Taken on by promoter William A. Brady, the two appeared at the London Theatre in New York, offering $100 to anyone who could stay in the ring with him for 15 minutes. George Bothner, a well known lightweight wrestler, was the only one to accept the challenge. Although outweighed by Ismail by at least 100 pounds, Bothner claimed that \"there wasn't a man alive who could pin him on his back in 15 minutes\" and accused Ismail of being an impostor \"like so many other so-called terrors\". Despite his bravado, Bothner was defeated by Ismail several days later and suffered a neck injury during the match. He described their encounter years later to Nat Fleischer in his book \"From Milo to Londos\" (1937):\nHe was undefeated prior to his arrival in New York until his disqualification in a match against World Greco-Roman Heavyweight Champion Ernest Roeber at Madison Square Garden on March 26, 1898. Ismail, who may have intentionally fouled himself, caused the crowd to riot when he pushed Roeber out of the ring, a raised platform, and caused him to fall headfirst onto the ground five feet below. Roeber was unconscious for several minutes, and many in the crowd believed he had been killed, causing spectators to charge into the ring. Only a small police guard under Chief of Police John H. McCullagh were able to block the crowd from entering.\n\nRoeber was revived after a few minutes and examined by physicians for injuries. Having landed on his shoulder, it was announced that he had suffered a back injury and it was decided that he would not be able to continue. Referee Hugh Leonard awarded the match to Roeber and, with calls to \"Kill the Turk\" and threats of lynching from those in attendance, Ismail was escorted by police to his dressing room. Ismail's manager, William Brady, offered to stage an exhibition bout between Ismail and Tom Cannon, but McCullagh refused to allow the event to continue due to concerns of rioting. The match was described in the 1907 novel \"The Substitute: A Football Story\" by sports writer Walter Camp.\n\nA rematch between Ismail and Roeber was held at the Metropolitan Opera House on April 30. During the bout, the two began a shoving match, which caused their managers, William Brady and Martin Julian, to enter the ring. Brady and Julian, who also managed rival heavyweight boxing champions Jim Corbett and Bob Fitzsimmons, began arguing over the management of their respective men. When Fitzsimmons attempted to intervene, several fans stormed the ring and referee Herman Wolff declared the match a no-contest before the event could once again end in a near-riot. Opera House management closed the venue to wrestling events soon after.\n\nMonths later, Ismail defeated Evan \"Strangler\" Lewis for the American Heavyweight Championship in Chicago, Illinois. Lewis was neither able to overcome Ismail's massive size and strength nor manage to use his sleeper hold during the match. Ismail had the $5,000 prize money converted to gold and carried it in a money belt along with the title.\n\nShortly after his victory over Lewis, Ismail took the first ship back to Europe, where he reportedly planned to open a coffee or bazaar in his native village near Shumen. It was on the ill-fated \"SS La Bourgogne\" that he was one of the 600 passengers who drowned when the ship sank on the morning of July 4, 1898. According to colorful accounts from the New York press, Ismail fell overboard while passengers were being evacuated to the lifeboats. Dragged underwater by the weight of his money belt, supposedly containing between $8,000 and $10,000 in gold coins, he drowned before the crew could get to him. Other journalists and surviving passengers claim to have seen \"the Terrible Turk\" throw women and children overboard trying to reach the lifeboats; however no mention of this was included in the official report and is generally assumed to have originated by Ismail's manager and promoter William Brady, who went on to become a successful Broadway producer.\n\n\n\n"}
