{"id": "54936638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54936638", "title": "2011 Montreal Museum of Fine Arts theft", "text": "2011 Montreal Museum of Fine Arts theft\n\nThe 2011 Montreal Museum of Fine Arts theft took place in two separate incidents during September and October of that year. In both instances, the same thief took a small ancient stone piece that was openly exhibited, without a protective case, and smuggled it out of the museum. One has since been recovered; however, the thief remains unidentified and the whereabouts of the other is not known.\n\nOn September 3, one day before the anniversary of the 1972 robbery of 18 paintings, a visitor took a sandstone Achaemenid Empire relief. In late October, he returned to take a Roman marble head from its pedestal. The two works were collectively valued at $1.3 million, with the relief accounting for almost all of that amount. \n\nThe museum did not disclose the theft until February 2012 to avoid compromising the joint investigation by its insurance company and Sureté du Québec's art theft unit. Security camera footage allowed them to obtain a description of the thief; investigators believed he was local. A reward was offered for the return of the works.\n\nIn 2013, police were led to Simon Metke, an Edmonton man who had bought the Achaemenid piece for CDN$1,400 during a visit to Montreal two years earlier, believing it to possibly be a replica, after it was seen on a wall behind him during a CBC interview unrelated to the case. The museum ultimately declined to buy it back from their insurer and it was put on the market in late 2016. Charges laid against Metke were disposed with a conditional discharge after he pled guilty to possession of stolen property. Metke's story inspired a character in Kevin Smith's 2016 film \"Yoga Hosers\", as well as the film's title.\n\nOn September 3, 2011, a visitor who came to the museum shortly after it opened removed a sandstone relief depicting a soldier's head, produced during the Achaemenid Empire, which ruled Persia during the 5th century BCE. It was small and secured to the wall it was on only by an anchor, and otherwise unprotected by glass. The museum staff has not been able to determine how it was removed. Coincidentally, the theft occurred on the day before the 39th anniversary of the only other theft from the museum, the 1972 robbery of 18 paintings, all but one of which are still missing, the largest art theft in Canadian history.\n\nThe thief returned approximately eight weeks later, in late October, at the same time of day. This time he took a 1st-century Roman marble head, approximately the same size, from its pedestal. Like the earlier piece, it was secured there by an anchor, but otherwise unprotected, not even by a glass case.\n\nWhen it discovered the pieces, both of which were part of the museum's permanent collection, missing, the museum called the Sureté du Québec's (SQ) art theft unit, the only one in any Canadian provincial police force, and AXA, its insurance company, which also dispatched a team of art-theft specialists. They investigated the case jointly. After reviewing security camera footage and interviewing museum staff who had been on duty the days of the thefts, they identified a suspect, a man tall who wore a baseball cap and dark jacket as he walked around the museum. They believed he spoke French and lived in the Montreal area.\n\nThe museum did not publicly disclose the thefts until January 2012 in order to avoid compromising the investigation. When it did inform the news media, it released a description of the suspect and offered rewards for both the thief's identity and the safe return of the missing items. It put their combined value at $1.3 million, most of which was accounted for by the older, Achaemenid piece, with the Roman head valued at a mere $40,000.\n\nJohn Fossey, an archaeologist, told CTV later that he believed the two pieces had not been stolen to order but simply because they were \"small [and] easy to put in the bag.\" Another expert involved, art-theft investigator Mark Dalrymple, observed that the case was similar to a series of 2004 thefts from the Art Gallery of Ontario in Toronto, which also involved small objects taken by visitors while the museum was open to the public, objects whose return he had secured. He said the museum was preparing photos for dissemination worldwide. \"[N]o matter where in the world these pieces go, no one can sell them\", he told \"The Globe and Mail\". He advised anyone in possession of the missing art to return it immediately.\n\nUnbeknownst to Dalrymple or any of the other investigators, by the time he made that statement at least one of the missing pieces had already been sold. In November 2011 Simon Metke, a yoga teacher from Edmonton, travelled to Montreal for a visit. A friend of his there had told him that someone he knew was selling what he described as a stone sculpture of a soldier, claiming it was a genuine antiquity. As a result of his own recent spiritual explorations, Metke had developed an interest in ancient cultures, and the friend thought he might be interested in buying the sculpture.\n\nWhen Metke finally saw the sculpture, actually the Achaemenid relief that had been stolen from the museum a few months earlier, he was at first skeptical. He believed it might actually be a replica, something that he might otherwise find at modern stores that sell home decor. But he appreciated the workmanship that had gone into it.\n\nThe seller's asking price was CDN$1,400. According to Metke's friend, the seller was motivated. \"This other guy had to pay his child support you know and pay his rent,\" Metke recalled later. \"He edged me on that it was worth a bunch more.\"\n\nStill, Metke had some lingering doubts about the item. So he did a Google search on \"Are there any Mesopotamian artifacts missing?\" After he had satisfied himself from the results that he was not buying something looted or stolen, he bought the item, believing that, with 2012, the last year in the Mayan Calendar, a month away, it was his destiny to acquire the artwork. \"It symbolized part of my spiritual journey to me.\"\n\nHe thought \"it would have been kind of fun\" to take it to an \"Antiques Roadshow\" production, or go to the Middle East himself and have it authenticated. For the time being, he packed the piece in his luggage and flew with it back to Edmonton, where the airline briefly lost the suitcase containing the relief upon his arrival. Once it was located, he took it home and put it in a meditation area he had set up in his living room.\n\nLater he moved it to a shelf in his bedroom, where he put it amid a collection of \"Star Wars\" action figures, crystals and stuffed animals. A month after returning to Edmonton, he gave an interview to a CBC News crew for a story unrelated to the artwork he had just purchased. It was, however, visible on the shelf behind him in some shots.\n\nThe interview eventually led to a tip to police. In late 2013 they obtained a warrant to search Metke's Edmonton condominium, and in January 2014 executed it. \"The sun's coming in through the window, the bougainvillea flowers are glowing, the crystals are making rainbows,\" recalled Metke.\n\nA team of Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) from both Alberta and Quebec, along with the SQ/AXA investigators, quickly located the relief. It was only then that Metke learned it had been stolen, and was indeed an authentic antique artifact 2,500 years old, not a replica. \"I don't think he knew it was worth $1.2 million dollars either,\" he said of the seller. He felt, again, that it was destiny that had brought the relief to him. \"[I]t sort of feels like it may have come to me to be protected so that it didn't get destroyed or lost.\"\n\nAt the time of the arrest, police suggested they had some leads on the identity of the thief. However, as of 2017 no arrests have been made. The whereabouts of the Roman head are also unknown.\n\nPolice charged Metke with possession of stolen property over $5,000 in value, possession of the proceeds of a crime, and possessing a controlled substance for the purpose of trafficking, after they also found drugs in the residence. Metke's girlfriend faced the former two charges related to the relief as well. Fossey, who was in Edmonton that day as well, flew home to Montreal with the relief that night. \"It's a day I'll never forget, flying back with it in a box at my feet,\" he said later. \n\nThe museum, however, would have to consider whether to buy it back from AXA, since once it was recovered it became the insurer's legal property; commonly a buyback clause in the policy allows a museum to do this by returning the money paid. The board said it would meet to consider the possibility. It decided not to, and in 2016 it was offered for sale at the Frieze Art Fair for £2.2 million.\n\nThe Crown later stayed two of the three charges against Metke, and all that it had laid against his girlfriend. In April 2017, he pled guilty to the possession of stolen goods charge. A statement of facts his lawyers agreed on with prosecutors said that while he clearly was unaware the relief had been stolen, he could have done more to assure himself of its provenance. In return the judge gave him a conditional discharge with probation and community service. Both sides described the case as \"unique\" and \"extraordinary\".\n\nAt the time of Metke's arrest, American filmmaker Kevin Smith discussed the story on his podcast, \"SModcast\", amused by Metke's description of the bougainvillea and crystals that morning. His co-host, Scott Mosier, imagined how the RCMP might have spoken to Metke, saying \"Open up, yoga hoser!\" The last two words became a minor catchphrase among their fans.\n\nIn April, Smith announced he was working on a screenplay called \"Yoga Hosers\". He completed the film in time for the January 2016 Sundance Film Festival. It was not based on Metke's story, but one character in the film, a yoga instructor named Yogi Bayer, was inspired by Metke. Justin Long, who played Bayer, attempted to contact Metke while preparing for the role; Metke did not respond until after Long had shot his scenes.\n\n"}
{"id": "957705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=957705", "title": "Africa (William Billings)", "text": "Africa (William Billings)\n\n\"Africa\" is an 18th-century hymn tune by American choral composer William Billings, who worked in New England.\n\nBillings wrote \"Africa\" some time before 1770 and included it in his first published hymnbook, \"The New England Psalm Singer\". Later he revised it, publishing a new version in his \"The Singing Master's Assistant\" (1778). He made additional revisions, publishing it again in \"Music in Miniature\" (1779). It is the latter two versions that are performed today.\n\nThe name of the hymn is, as far as can be determined, completely arbitrary, and reflects a practice of Billings's day to give names specifically to the \"tunes\" of songs. Billings also wrote an \"Asia\" and an \"America\"; more often, he adopted the names of (arbitrarily chosen) New England towns to label his tunes.\n\nVersion of 1778.\n\nMusically, the work is notable for the parallel descending thirds and sixths that shift from part to part. Some renditions of this hymn (for example, the practice of \"Sacred Harp\" singer) follow a practice recommended by Billings, with some male singers on the treble, singing an octave down, and some female singers on the tenor part, singing an octave higher.\n\nThe 1770 version of \"Africa\" was published without lyrics. Since it readily fits any iambic quatrain written in couplets of eight and six syllables (common meter), singers of this version would certainly have had no trouble finding lyrics to accompany it. Such quatrains are common in hymn lyrics.\n\nFor the 1778 and 1779 versions, Billings chose lyrics: the first stanza of Hymn #39 of the first volume of hymns (1709) by the noted English hymnodist Isaac Watts.\n\nBillings altered Watts's \"joys\" to \"joy\", although this change is not always observed by singers. Sometimes the other stanzas by Watts are also sung to the tune of \"Africa\"; they are as follows:\n\n\"Africa\" is a favorite among Billings' works, and is performed frequently on concert programs and in recordings. It is one of several Billings' hymns included in the \"Sacred Harp\" musical tradition. It is widely sung in this context, although a comparatively recent addition to that book.\n\nThe hymnbooks in which Billings first published \"Africa\" are in print today, in scholarly editions edited by Hans Nathan and published by the University Press of Virginia:\n\n\nMuch of the information above is taken from these scholarly editions.\n\n"}
{"id": "9545785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9545785", "title": "Alice Howell", "text": "Alice Howell\n\nAlice Howell (May 20, 1886 – April 11, 1961) was a silent film comedy actress from New York City. She was the mother of actress Yvonne Howell.\n\nEarly reviews of her movies describe her as \"the scream of the screen.\" One reviewer likened her to a \"sort of Charlie Chaplin, Douglas Fairbanks, Sr., and Max Linder.\" All of this was compressed into \"one more or less diminutive package of femininity.\" She was sometimes called \"the girl Charlie Chaplin.\" she worked for Mack Sennett and later L-KO Kompany and her early comedies were often produced by Universal Pictures.\n\nAmong more than one hundred screen credits Howell made such motion pictures as \"Caught in a Cabaret\" (1914), \"Mabel and Fatty's Married Life\" (1915), \"Neptune's Naughty Daughter\" (1917), \"Green Trees\" (1924), and \"Madame Dynamite\" (1926). \"Her Bareback Career\" (1917) was the first of twelve two reel comedies for a new corporation which was formed to manufacture and distribute Alice Howell comedies.\n\nIn this era, such female slapstick stars as Howell, Dorothy Devore, and Billie Rhodes were inhibited by second-rate films and the absence of genuine star buildup.\n\nHowell's film career continued into the sound movie era with a role as a mute servant of the master murderer in the motion picture \"The Black Ace\" (1933).\n\nAlice Howell died in Los Angeles, California in 1961, aged 74.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35259886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35259886", "title": "Altar frontal from La Seu d'Urgell or of The Apostles", "text": "Altar frontal from La Seu d'Urgell or of The Apostles\n\nThe Altar frontal from La Seu d'Urgell or of The Apostles is a Romanesque altar frontal currently exhibited at the National Art Museum of Catalonia. The work dates from the second quarter of the 12th century and comes from a church of the Bishop of La Seu d'Urgell and was acquired in 1905. It is one of the masterpieces of the collection of panel painting of the MNAC. The frontal, the item covering the front of the altar, stands out for the quality of its bright colours and because it illustrates some of the characteristics of composition in Romanesque art, such as bilateral symmetry, abstraction of the background, with no reference to space or context, and the unnatural geometrical treatment of form to be observed in the folds of the clothing. It also shows certain conventions of representation, such as so-called hierarchical perspective, which\nconsists in representing the chief character in a larger size.\n\nThe composition is presided by the \"Maiestas Domini\", or \"Christ in Majesty\", represented in a double mandorla, typical of earlier Carolingian art. According to the Bible sources inspiring the vision, the Lord's throne is the arc of Heaven and he has the Earth as his footstool. His face is framed by a cruciform halo and his expression is severe. He is holding the Book of Revelation in his left hand and blessing with his right. The Apostles figure in the lateral compartments, arranged in tiered pyramids, an original compositional formula, although it was already known in the art of the\nEarly Empire and also appears in the famous 11th-century Romanesque bibles of Rodes and Ripoll.\n\nThe disciples are all addressing the Saviour, either with their eyes or with the inclination of their heads, and are carrying books or scrolls. St Peter, furthermore, is holding the keys. Opposite him, on the other side, is St Paul, with his characteristic bald head. Both the image of Christ and the quality of the yellow and red used and even the bordering on the frame are very similar to those on the frontal from Sant Martí d’Ix, which probably came from the same workshop.\n\nThis frontal was painted in tempera on a pine panel. It is one of the most characteristic representations of Catalan Romanesque, showing Romanesque stylistic principles, such as bilateral symmetry and hierarchical geometric forms, as seen in the folds of the clothing. It is also noteworthy for the quality of the polychromy. The work shows similarities, especially with regard to colors and borders, to the frontal of Saint Martin of Ix, indicating that probably they are from the same author or workshop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28828932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28828932", "title": "American Writers Association", "text": "American Writers Association\n\nThe American Writers Association (AWA) was an organization formed in 1946 in opposition to an attempt to introduce a form of trade unionism for authors. Its members included writers such as Bruce Barton, John Dos Passos, John Erskine, James T. Farrell, John T. Flynn, Rupert Hughes, Zora Neale Hurston, Clarence Budington Kelland, Clare Boothe Luce, Eugene Lyons, Margaret Mitchell, Ayn Rand, Dorothy Thompson and Louis Waldman.\n\nThe organization formed as a response to the \"Cain Plan\", a proposal put forth by the novelist and screenwriter James M. Cain. In July 1946, Cain proposed that an \"American Authors' Authority\" be created to act as a central repository for copyrights, and additionally negotiating collectively for authors to give them greater bargaining power. The AWA opposed this plan. Many AWA members considered the Cain Plan to be an attempt by Communists to gain control over copyrights. Flynn compared the Authority's board of governors to the politburo of the Soviet Union. Cain responded by referring to members of the AWA as \"reactionary, almost incomprehensibly censorious\".\n\nIn September 1946, a group of 50 writers signed a joint letter to Elmer Rice, president of the Authors League of America, to announce the group's formation. The AWA soon found backing from radio and film producers, as well as newspaper editors and publishers. The group held meetings and began a newsletter. Erskine was initially elected as the group's leader, but he was soon succeeded by Hughes. Flynn, Lyons and Waldman were selected for a \"strategy committee\".\n\nThe Cain Plan was quickly defeated, but the AWA continued to exist for several years after. In 1949, the group supported the Contempt of Congress citations against the Hollywood Ten by the House Committee on Un-American Activities. That same year the AWA denounced the Cultural and Scientific Conference for World Peace as a \"fraud\", saying its Russian delegates were \"prisoners\" of that country's Communist authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "16581439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16581439", "title": "Art competitions at the 1924 Summer Olympics", "text": "Art competitions at the 1924 Summer Olympics\n\nArt competitions were held as part of the 1924 Summer Olympics in Paris, France. Medals were awarded in five categories (architecture, literature, music, painting, and sculpture), for works inspired by sport-related themes.\n\nArt competitions were part of the Olympic program from 1912 to 1948, but were discontinued due to concerns about amateurism and professionalism. Since 1952, a non-competitive art and cultural festival has been associated with each Games.\n\nAt the time, medals were awarded to these artists, but art competitions are no longer regarded as official Olympic events by the International Olympic Committee. These events do not appear in the IOC medal database, and these totals are not included in the IOC's medal table for the 1924 Games.\n"}
{"id": "1714758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1714758", "title": "Arthur Szyk", "text": "Arthur Szyk\n\nArthur Szyk (Polish: [ˈartur ʃɪk], June 16, 1894 – September 13, 1951) was a Polish-Jewish artist who worked primarily as a book illustrator and political artist throughout his career. Arthur Szyk was born into a prosperous middle-class Jewish family in Łódź, in the part of Poland which was under Russian rule in the 19th century. An acculturated Polish Jew, Szyk always proudly regarded himself both as a Pole and a Jew. From 1921, he lived and created his works mainly in France and Poland, and in 1937 he moved to the United Kingdom. In 1940, he settled permanently in the United States, where he was granted American citizenship in 1948.\n\nArthur Szyk became a renowned artist and book illustrator as early as the interwar period. His works were exhibited and published not only in Poland, but also in France, the United Kingdom, Israel and the United States. However, he gained broad popularity in the United States primarily through his political caricatures, in which, after the outbreak of World War II, he savaged the policies and personalities of the leaders of the Axis powers. After the war, he also devoted himself to political issues, especially the support of the creation of the state of Israel.\n\nSzyk's work is characterized in its material content by social and political commitment, and in its formal aspect by its rejection of modernism and embrace of the traditions of medieval and renaissance painting, especially illuminated manuscripts from those periods. Unlike most caricaturists, Szyk always showed great attention to the colouristic effects and details in his works.\n\nToday, Szyk is an increasingly well-known and often exhibited artist only in his last home country, the United States. However, exhibitions in Poland and Germany are familiarizing Europe with one of the most prolific artists of World War II.\n\nArthur Szyk, the son of Solomon Szyk and his wife Eugenia, was born in Łódź, in Russian-occupied Poland, on June 16, 1894. Solomon Szyk was a textile factory director, a quiet occupation until June 1905, when, during the so-called Łódź insurrection, one of his workers threw acid in his face, permanently blinding him.\n\nSzyk showed artistic talent as a child; when he was six years old, he reportedly drew sketches of the Boxer Rebellion in China. Even though his family was culturally assimilated and did not practice Orthodox Judaism, Arthur also liked drawing biblical scenes from the Hebrew Bible. These interests and talents prompted his father, upon the advice of Szyk's teachers, to send Szyk to Paris to study at Académie Julian, a studio school popular among French and foreign students. In Paris, Szyk was exposed to all modern trends in art; however, he decided to follow his own way, which hewed closely to tradition. He was especially attracted by the medieval art of illuminating manuscripts, which greatly influenced his later works. When studying in Paris, Szyk remained closely involved with the social and civic life of Łódź. During the years 1912–1914 the teenage artist produced numerous drawings and caricatures on contemporary political themes that were published in the Łódź satirical magazine \"Śmiech\" (\"Laughter\").\n\nAfter four years in France, Szyk returned to Poland in 1913 and continued his studies in Teodor Axentowicz's class at Jan Matejko Academy of Fine Arts in Kraków, which was under Austrian rule at that time. He not only attended lectures and classes, but he also actively participated in Kraków's cultural life. He did not forget his home city Łódź – he designed the stage sets and costumes for the Łódź-based Bi Ba Bo cabaret. The political and national engagement of the artist also deepened during that time – Szyk regarded himself as a Polish patriot but he was also proud of being Jewish and he often opposed antisemitism in his works. At the beginning of 1914, Szyk in a group with other Polish-Jewish artists and writers set off on a journey to Palestine, organized by the Jewish Cultural Society Hazamir (Hebrew: nightingale). There he observed the efforts of Jewish settlers working for the benefit of the future Jewish state.\n\nThe visit was interrupted by the outbreak of World War I. Szyk, who was a Russian subject, had to leave Palestine, which was part of the Ottoman Empire at that time, and go back to his home country in August 1914. He was conscripted into the Russian army and fought at the battle of Łódź in November/December 1914, but at the beginning of 1915 he managed to escape from the army and spent the rest of the war in his home city. He also used the time spent in the Russian army to draw Russian soldiers and published these drawings as postcards in the same year (1915). On September 14, 1916, Arthur Szyk married Julia Likerman. Their son George was born in the following year, and their daughter Alexandra in 1922.\n\nAfter Poland had regained independence in 1918, Szyk fully developed his artistic activity, combining it with political engagement. In 1919, influenced by the events of the German Revolution of 1918–19, he published, together with poet Julian Tuwim, his first book of political illustrations: \"Rewolucja w Niemczech\" (\"Revolution in Germany\"), which was a satire on the Germans, who need the Kaiser's and the military's consent even to start a revolution. In the same year, Szyk had to take part in warfare again – during the Polish–Soviet War (1919–1920), in which he served as a Polish cavalry officer and as the artistic director of the propaganda department of the Polish army in Łódź.\n\nIn 1921 Arthur Szyk and his family moved to Paris where they stayed until 1933. The relocation to Paris is marked by a breakthrough in the formal aspect of Szyk's works. While Szyk's prior book illustrations were drawings in pen and ink (Szyk had illustrated six books before 1925, including three published in the Yiddish language), the illustrations for the books published in Paris were full colour and full of detail. The first book illustrated in this way was the \"Book of Esther\" (\"Le livre d'Esther\", 1925), followed by Gustave Flaubert's dialogue \"The Temptation of Saint Anthony\" (\"La tentation de Saint Antoine\", 1926), Pierre Benoît's novel \"Jacob's Well\" (Le puits de Jacob, 1927) and other books. Those illustrations, which are characterized by a rich diversity of colours and detailed presentation, deliberately referred to the medieval and renaissance traditions of illumination of manuscripts, often with interspersed contemporary elements. Szyk drew himself as one of the characters in the Book of Esther.. The only stylistic exception is illustrations to the two volume collection of humorous anecdotes about Jews \"Le juif qui rit\" (1926/27), in which the artist returned to simple black and white graphics. (Paradoxically, the book, one of the best known of his works, met with criticism as repeating antisemitic stereotypes.) The artist's reputation was also enhanced by exhibitions which were organized by Galeries Auguste Decour (the art gallery first exhibited Szyk's works in 1922). Szyk's drawings were purchased by the Minister of Education and Fine Arts Anatole de Monzie and the New York businessman Harry Glemby.\n\nSzyk had many opportunities to travel for his art. In 1922, he spent seven weeks in Morocco, then a protectorate of France, where he drew the portrait of the pasha of Marrakech – as a goodwill ambassador he received the Ordre des Palmes Académiques from the French government for this work. In 1931 he was invited to the seat of the League of Nations in Geneva, where he began illustrating the statute of the League. The artist made some of the pages of the statute but did not complete that work as a result of his disappointment with the policies of the organization in the 1930s.\n\nDuring his stay in France, Szyk maintained his ties with Poland. He often visited his home country, illustrated books, and exhibited his works there. During the second half of the 1920s, he mainly illustrated the \"Statute of Kalisz\", a charter of liberties which were granted to the Jews by Bolesław the Pious, the Duke of Kalisz, in 1264. In the years 1926–1928, he created a rich graphic setting of the 45-page-long Statute, showing the contribution of the Jews to Polish society; for example their participation in Poland's pro-independence struggle, during the January Uprising of 1863, and in the Polish Legions in World War I commanded by Józef Piłsudski, to whom Szyk also dedicated his work. \"The Statute of Kalisz\" was published in book form in Munich in 1932, but it gained popularity even earlier. Postcards with reproductions of Szyk's illustrations were published in Kraków around 1927. The original art was shown at exhibitions in Warsaw, Łódź and Kalisz in 1929, and a \"Traveling Exhibition of Artur Szyk's Works\" was held in 1932–1933, displaying the Statute at exhibitions in 14 Polish towns and cities. In recognition for his work, Arthur Szyk was decorated with the Gold Cross of Merit by the Polish government.\n\nAnother great historical series Szyk created was \"Washington and his Times\", which he began in Paris in 1930. The series, which included 38 watercolours, depicted the events of the American Revolutionary War and was a tribute to the first president of the United States and the American nation in general. The series was presented at an exhibition at the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. in 1934. It brought another decoration to Szyk – this time the George Washington Bicentennial Medal from the American government.\n\nSzyk's art became even more politically engaged when Adolf Hitler took power in Germany in 1933. Szyk started drawing caricatures of Germany's Führer as early as 1933; probably the first was a pencil drawing of Hitler dressed as an ancient Egyptian pharaoh. These drawings anticipated another great series of Szyk's drawings – the \"Haggadah\", which is considered his \"magnum opus\". The \"Haggadah\" is a very important and popular story in Jewish culture and religion about the Exodus or departure of the Israelites from ancient Egypt, which is read every year during the Passover Seder. Szyk illustrated the Haggadah in 48 miniature paintings in the years 1934–1936. The antisemitic politics in Germany led Szyk introduce some contemporary elements to it. For example, he painted the Jewish parable of the Four Sons, in which the \"wicked son\" was portrayed as a man wearing German clothes, with a Hitler-like moustache and a green Alpine hat. The political intent of the series was even stronger in its original version: he painted upon the red snakes the swastika, the symbol of the Third Reich.\n\nIn 1937, Arthur Szyk went to London to supervise the publication of the \"Haggadah\". However, in the three years leading to its publication, the artist had to agree to many compromises, including painting over the swastikas. It is not clear whether he did it under the pressure from his publisher or from British politicians who pursued the policy of appeasement with to Germany. The \"Haggadah\" was at last published in 1940, dedicated it to King George VI and with a translation (of the Hebrew) and commentary by British Jewish historian Cecil Roth. The work was widely acclaimed by critics; according to \"The Times\" of London Literary Supplement, it was \"worthy to be placed among the most beautiful of books that the hand of man has ever produced\". It was the most expensive new book in the world at the time, with each of the 250 limited edition copies of vellum selling for 100 guineas or USD$520.\n\nThe last major exhibition of Szyk's works before the outbreak of World War II was the presentation of his paintings at the 1939 New York World's Fair, which opened in April 1939 in New York. The Polish Pavilion prominently featured Szyk's twenty-three paintings depicting the contribution of the Poles to the history of the United States; many works specifically highlighted the historic political connections between the two countries, as if to remind the viewer that Poland remained a suitable ally in a turbulent time.. (Twenty of the images were reproduced as postcards in Kraków in 1938 and were available for sale.). In this series, Szyk depicted the contribution of the Poles to the history of the United States, and highlighted historic connections between the two countries.\n\nThe German invasion of Poland found Szyk in Britain where he supervised the publication of the \"Haggadah\" and continued to exhibit his works. The artist immediately reacted to the outbreak of World War II by producing war-themed works. One feature which distinguished Szyk from other caricaturists who were active during World War II was that he concentrated on the presentation of the enemy in his works and seldom depicted the leaders or soldiers of the Allies. This was a characteristic feature of Szyk's work till the end of the war. In January 1940, the exhibition of his 72 caricatures entitled \"War and \"Kultur\" in Poland\" opened at the Fine Art Society in London, and was well received by the critics. As the reviewer of \"The Times\" wrote:\n\nSzyk drew more and more caricatures directed at the Axis powers and their leaders, and his popularity steadily grew. In 1940, the American publisher G.P. Putnam's Sons offered to publish a collection of his drawings. Szyk agreed, and the result was the 1941 book \"The New Order\", available months before the United States joined the war. Thomas Craven declared on the dust jacket of \"The New Order\" that Szyk:\nSome years later, in 1946, art critic Carl Van Doren said of Szyk:\n\nAt the beginning of July 1940, with the support of the British government and the Polish government-in-exile, Arthur Szyk left Britain for North America, on assignment to popularize in the New World the struggle of the British and Polish nations against Nazism. His first destination on the continent was Canada, where he was welcomed enthusiastically by the media: they wrote about his engagement in the fight with Nazi Germany, and the Halifax-based \"Morning Herald\" even reported about the alleged bounty Hitler had put on Szyk. In December 1940, Szyk and his wife and daughter went to New York City, where he lived till 1945. His son, George, had enlisted in the Free French Forces commanded by General Charles de Gaulle.\n\nSoon after his arrival in the U.S., Szyk was inspired by Roosevelt's 1941 \"Four Freedoms\" State of the Union speech to illustrate the Four Freedoms, preceding Norman Rockwell's Four Freedoms by two years; these were used as poster stamps during the war, and appeared on the Four Freedoms Award which was presented to Harry Truman, George Marshall and Herbert H. Lehman. Szyk became an immensely popular artist in his new home country the war, especially after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and the entry of the United States into the war. His caricatures of the leaders of the Axis powers (Hitler, Mussolini, Hirohito) and other drawings appeared practically everywhere: in newspapers, magazines (including \"Time (cover caricature of Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto in December 1941)\", \"Esquire\", and \"Collier's\"), on posters, postcards and stamps, in secular, religious and military publications, on public and military buildings. He also produced advertisements for Coca-Cola and U.S. Steel, and exhibited in the galleries of M. Knodler & Co., Andre Seligmann, Inc., Messrs. Wildenstein & Co., the Philadelphia Art Alliance, the Brooklyn Museum, the Palace of the Legion of Honor in San Francisco, and the White House. More than 25 exhibitions were staged altogether in the United States during the war years. At the end of the war, in 1945, his drawing \"Two Down and One to Go\" was used in a propaganda film calling American soldiers to the final assault on Japan. According to the \"Esquire\" magazine, the posters with Szyk's drawings enjoyed even bigger popularity with American soldiers than pin-up girls put on the walls of American military bases. In total, more than one million American soldiers saw Szyk's in reproduction at some 500 locations administered by the United Services Organization.\n\nIn recognition for his services in the fight against Nazism, Fascism, and the Japanese aggression, Eleanor Roosevelt, First Lady and wife of President F. D. Roosevelt, wrote about Szyk several times in her newspaper column, \"My Day\". On January 8, 1943, she wrote:\n\nThough Szyk was a fierce opponent of Nazi Germany and the rest of the Axis Powers, he did not avoid topics or themes which presented the Allies in a less favourable light. Szyk criticized the United Kingdom for its policies in the Middle East, especially its practice of imposing limits on Jewish emigration to Palestine.) Szyk also criticized the apparent passivity of American-Jewish organizations towards the tragedy of their European fellows. He supported the work of Hillel Kook, also known as Peter Bergson, a member of the Zionist organization Irgun, who mounted a publicity campaign in American society whose aim was to draw the American public's attention to the fate of the European Jews. Szyk illustrated for example full-page advertisements (sometimes with copy by screenwriter Ben Hecht) which were published in \"The New York Times\". The artist also spoke against racial tensions in the United States and criticized the fact that the black population did not have the same rights as the whites. In one of his drawings, there are two American soldiers – one black and one white – escorting German prisoners of war. When the white one asks the black: \"And what would you do with Hitler?\", the black one answers: \"I would have made him a Negro and dropped him somewhere in the U.S.A.\"\n\nSzyk's attitude to his mother country, Poland, was very interesting and full of contradictions. Even though he regarded himself both as Jewish and Polish and showed the suffering of the Poles (not only those of Jewish descent) in the Russian-occupied Polish territories in his drawings, even though he benefited from financial support of the Polish government-in-exile (at least at the beginning of the war), Szyk sometimes presented that government in a negative light, especially at the end of World War II. In a controversial drawing dated 1944, a group of debating Polish politicians are shown as opponents of Roosevelt, Joseph Stalin, the \"Bolshevik agent\" Winston Churchill, and at the same time adherents of Father Charles Coughlin, known for his antisemitic views, as well as \"(national) democracy\" and \"(national) socialism.\" Around 1943, Szyk, a former participant in the Polish–Soviet War, also completely changed his opinions on the Soviet Union. His drawing from 1944 already depicts outright a soldier of the Moscow-supported People's Army of Poland next to a Red Army soldier, both liberating Poland.\n\nWhatever his political views, in July 1942 Szyk took the time to look after the family of the Polish diplomat and poet General Bolesław Wieniawa-Długoszowski when the General committed suicide. He invited his wife Bronisława Wieniawa-Długoszowska and daughter Zuzanna to stay with his family for six weeks in the country.\n\nEven though caricatures dominated Szyk's artistic output during the war, he was still engaged in other areas of art. In 1940, the American publisher George Macy, who saw his illustrations for the \"Haggadah\" at an exhibition in London, asked him to illustrate the \"Rubaiyat\", a collection of poems of the Iranian poet Omar Khayyám. In 1943, the artist started work on illustrations for the \"Book of Job\", published in 1946; he also illustrated collections of fairy tales by Hans Christian Andersen (\"Andersen's Fairy Tales\", 1945) and Charles Perrault (\"Mother Goose\", which was not published).\n\nIn 1945, Arthur Szyk and his family moved from New York City to New Canaan, Connecticut where he lived till the end of his life. The end of the war released him from the duty to fight Nazism through his caricatures; a large collection of drawings from the war period was published by the Heritage Press in 1946 in book form as \"Ink and Blood: A Book of Drawings\". The artist returned to book illustrations, working for example on \"The Canterbury Tales\" by Geoffrey Chaucer and, most notably, books telling Bible stories, such as \"Pathways through the Bible\" by Mortimer J. Cohen (1946), \"The Book of Job\" (1946), \"The Book of Ruth\" (1947), \"The Ten Commandments\" (1947), \"The Story of Joseph and his Brothers\" (1949). Some of the books illustrated by Szyk were also published posthumously, including \"The Arabian Nights Entertainments\" (1954) and \"The Book of Esther\" (1974). He was also commissioned by Canadian entrepreneur and stamp connoisseur, Kasimir Bileski, to create illustrations for the Visual History of Nations (or United Nations) series of stamps; though the project never came to fruition, Szyk did design stamp album frontispieces for more than a dozen countries, including the United States, Poland, the United Kingdom, and Israel.\n\nArthur Szyk was granted American citizenship on May 22, 1948, but he reportedly experienced the happiest day in his life eight days earlier: on May 14, the day of the announcement of the Israeli Declaration of Independence. Arthur Szyk commemorated that event by creating the richly decorated illumination of the Hebrew text of the declaration. Two years later, on July 4, 1950, he also exhibited the richly illuminated text of the United States Declaration of Independence. The artist continued to be politically engaged in his country, criticizing the McCarthyism policy (the ubiquitous atmosphere of suspicion and searching for sympathizers of communism in American artistic and academic circles) and signs of racism. One of his well-known drawings from 1949 shows two armed members of Ku Klux Klan approaching a tied-up African American; the caption for the drawing reads, \"Do not forgive them, oh Lord, for they do know what they do.\" Like many outspoken artists of his era, Szyk was suspected by the House Un-American Activities Committee, which accused him of being a member of the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee and six other suspicious organizations. Szyk himself, however, repudiated these accusations of alleged sympathy for communism; his son George sent Judge Simon Rifkind a memorandum outlining his father's innocence.\n\nArthur Szyk died of a heart attack in New Canaan on September 13, 1951. He was eulogized by Rabbi Ben Zion Bokser, who said: \n\nThe immense popularity Szyk enjoyed in the United States and Europe in his lifetime gradually flagged after his death. From the 1960s to the end of the 1980s, the artist's works were seldom exhibited in American museums. This changed in 1991 when the non-profit organization The Arthur Szyk Society was established in Orange County, California. The founder of the Society, George Gooche, rediscovered Szyk's works and staged the exhibition \"Arthur Szyk – Illuminator\" in Los Angeles. In 1997, the seat of the Society was transferred to Burlingame, California, and a new Board of Trustees was elected, headed by rabbi, curator and antiquarian Irvin Ungar. The Society's work resulted in staging many exhibitions of Szyk's works in American cities in the 1990s and 2000s. The Society also maintains a large educational website, holds lectures, and produces publications on the artist. In April 2017, the Ungar collection of his work, consisting of 450 paintings, drawings and sketches, was purchased for $10.1 million by the University of California, Berkeley's Magnes Collection of Jewish Art and Life, through a donation by Taube Philanthropies, the largest single monetary gift to acquire art in UC Berkeley history.\n\nSzyk's recent solo exhibitions include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2347687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2347687", "title": "Construction grip", "text": "Construction grip\n\nConstruction grips work on film and television sound stages and exterior sets both on and off Motion Picture Studio Lots for various cinema projects in countries all over the world. Some studios are actually warehouses or buildings that have been converted into film and or television studios. An exterior set could just be one of the many facades built on or about a studio lot outside of the sound stages. However, it is quite common to see projects being filmed off lot, in and around the city. \n\nThe construction key grip and his crew work with the construction coordinator and his carpenters to execute any sets or set pieces that need to be erected or installed. The key is chosen and directed by the construction coordinator. Though, they are ostensibly of equal rank,(actually they are not equal in rank, since the construction coordinator answers directly to the production for the cost and coordination of set related tasks) the construction coordinator generally determines the order of work.\n\nThe division of labor is basic: The coordinator and his carpenters build the components of the set, the construction grips erect, level, and plumb the set only if it is a set that has already been seen on camera. New construction is handled entirely by the carpenters (known as Propmakers). Then the carpenters trim the set in preparation for the scenic artists.\n\nIn addition, the construction grips accomplish any rigging that may need to be done. This could be flying set pieces or facades, mounting and securing them onto existing structures or hanging and building pipe grids over and above the sets to hang lighting and other equipment from. Construction grips also build stable catwalks around and above the sets for people to walk on and or hang and attach more stuff to. Operating heavy machinery is required in most cases; in some regions this is done by the Teamsters. They are also responsible for any backdrops that need to be hung.\n\nOnce complete, as per schedule, the shooting crew eventually comes in. The set is generally handed over to the regular shooting grips, unless there is a particularly large or complex piece that must be moved at a particular time.\n\nThe construction grip department, in general, is also traditionally charged with the safety of the construction crew, engendering other various labors for the construction grips: the shop and set, (until it is turned over to the set dressers), must be maintained free of debris, and lumber and building materials must be stowed or racked in a safe, neat, and accessible manner.\n\n"}
{"id": "43742181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43742181", "title": "Crazy Eyes (character)", "text": "Crazy Eyes (character)\n\nSuzanne \"Crazy Eyes\" Warren is a fictional character played by Uzo Aduba on the Netflix series \"Orange Is the New Black\". Warren is portrayed as intelligent, but lacking in social skills, and prone to spiral into emotional outbursts when agitated, as well as hallucinations and delusions, due to mental illness. The character is the only role that has received Emmy Award recognition in both the comedy and drama genres from the same show and the second character to earn Emmy recognition in both genres. Aduba won the Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series as well as the Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Guest Performer in a Comedy Series for her season one performance. She received the Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series as well as the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Comedy Series for her season two performance. Her season three performance again won Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Comedy Series. She is a recurring character in season one and a regular character beginning with season two.\n\nIn season one, Aduba is credited for 11 of the 13 episodes (not the first or seventh), although she appears in the first episode via footage filmed from another episode.\n\nIn season two, episode three (\"Hugs Can Be Deceiving\"), Eden Wiggins, and Taliyah Whitaker portray the 10-year-old and 5-year-old versions of Warren. Throughout the first two seasons, it is shown that Warren aspires \"to be included\" and \"to make friends and be valued\". The character is known for her bantu knots, an awkward grin, and her crazy eyes.\n\nSuzanne is fixated on Piper Chapman (Taylor Schilling) at the beginning of the season. When Chapman, who has offended prison matriarch Red (Kate Mulgrew), seems hopelessly isolated, Suzanne is the only inmate not too intimidated to help her. She helps Chapman by getting jalapeños, so she can put them in a medicinal lotion for Red's sore back, and Red forgives Chapman. Suzanne nicknames Chapman \"Dandelion\", because of her blonde hair and puts in a request to become Chapman's bunkmate. Nonetheless, Chapman resists her advances. As a result, Suzanne urinates on the floor in Chapman's bunk quarters. In episode 9, \"Fucksgiving\", her white adoptive parents, Pat and Dennis Warren, are introduced.\n\nAs she rebounds from her unrequited love for Chapman, Suzanne is befriended by veteran inmate Yvonne \"Vee\" Parker (Lorraine Toussaint) as Vee develops her powerbase in the prison. Vee takes advantage of Suzanne's desperation for affection, and Suzanne becomes Vee's fanatically loyal right-hand woman. Suzanne serves Vee as muscle, even beating up her friend Poussey Washington (Samira Wiley) on Vee's orders. When Vee attacks prison matriarch Galina \"Red\" Reznikov (Kate Mulgrew) and puts her in the hospital ward, she manipulates Suzanne into believing that she committed the crime. Suzanne gives a statement to prison officials confessing to the attack, but inmate counselor Sam Healy (Michael J. Harney) produces evidence that exonerates her. When she realizes that Vee used her, she breaks into tears.\n\nIn episode 3, \"Hugs Can Be Deceiving\", Suzanne's backstory is revealed via a flashback. She was adopted by white parents and raised in the suburbs, but her mental instability alienated her classmates and their parents alike. Her adoptive mother pushed her to excel at everything she did to prove that she was as good as everyone else; ironically, the constant pressure only made Suzanne's psychological problems worse. In the same episode, it is revealed that Suzanne had run outside and knocked Chapman unconscious after Chapman had beaten Tiffany \"Pennsatucky\" Doggett (Taryn Manning) unconscious at the end of season 1.\n\nIn season 3, Taystee has her hands full trying to control Suzanne, who is still grieving Vee's death and is unstable, prone to losing her temper and constantly fighting with Poussey. Eventually, she turns to new prison counsellor Berdie Rogers's drama class. There, she begins writing a surrealistic science-fiction erotica series called \"The Time Hump Chronicles\" which, although considered obscene and strange by both Rogers and Taystee, becomes an instant hit amongst the inmates. Although they prove to be therapeutic for her mental health, Suzanne becomes stressed and irritated with the constant harassment by the other inmates for more material, the persistent ideas that are being floated past her and the fan-fiction that is left at her bunk or lying around. Soon, some of the extracts find their way into the hands of the COs, resulting in Officer Donaldson being mocked by both his colleagues and the inmates alike upon the realization that he is the inspiration for one of the characters. This leads to Rogers' suspension. Meanwhile, Suzanne is taken by surprise when she discovers that one of her more prolific fans, Maureen Kukudio, is actually interested in her romantically. Suzanne seeks advice from Lorna about how to respond; she admits she finds Maureen attractive, but she has never had a girlfriend before and subsequently feels she must back away from a sexual liaison. In the season finale, Suzanne assists Poussey and Taystee in caring for Brook Soso, whom they discover unconscious from a drug overdose, and develops a closer bond with Maureen in the final scene, owing to a misunderstanding over a turtle that bites Maureen's foot.\n\nIn season 4 it is revealed that Suzanne's crime was kidnapping and involuntary manslaughter of a child she grew friendly with while working as a store greeter. Believing that she and the boy were simply being friends, she did not realize the implications of her actions when she came across him playing in the park and invited him to her apartment for ice cream and video games. The boy went willingly, but soon became frightened and wanted to call his dad. While Suzanne is out of the room preparing for what she plans as more fun, he calls 911. Suzanne becomes agitated as she tells him that 911 should only be called when there is an emergency. The child panics and tries to get away. He goes onto the fire escape and falls to his death. It is mentioned that she took a plea deal. When the inmates take advantage of a temporary lack of security and enjoy the nearby lake and woods, Kukudio insists that she and Suzanne run away together. Suzanne refuses and their relationship becomes rocky. In \"People Persons\", CO Humphrey commands the two of them to fight. Suzanne rejects this but Maureen, who wants to fight, provokes her by launching into a stream of insults. Suzanne fully retaliates by throwing Maureen to the ground and beating her repeatedly, until the Dominicans pull her off. This fight leads her to extreme guilt and a wish to punish herself. She demonstrates this especially when a peaceful protest in the jail cafeteria turns into a chaotic scene and Poussey Washington dies by suffocation. Whilst the inmates grieve over her death, Suzanne believes that Poussey is alive and tries numerous times to suffocate herself. Finally, she is sent to Medical and is placed in a bed next to Kukudio.\n\nIn season five, Suzanne continues to recover from her injuries and also goes out of her way to help Maureen, whose injuries are severe. The chaos of the riot prevents the consistency she is used to and has a hard time adjusting. Other inmates try to mimic the consistency for her at times. She continues to believe that Poussey's spirit is trying to talk to her and performs a seance on the spot in the cafeteria where Poussey died. Lorna and Nicky take over the dispensation of meds; Lorna refuses to give Suzanne hers, pressuring her to believe she no longer needs them. As a result, Suzanne's grasp on reality soon spirals out of control, especially when she tears down fiberboard in the dorm ceiling, trying to find \"heaven\". Cindy intervenes but, not knowing the correct prescriptions, feeds Suzanne lithium instead. Suzanne becomes catatonic but is subsequently revived by an epipen.\n\nAt the beginning of Season 6, during the aftermath of the riot, Suzanne is being interrogated about the riot but, due to not using her medication, has hallucinations and does not coherently answer the questions. She finally gets her medication and is released to general population after being in Administrative Segregation (Ad Seg). She is sent to B Block which is nicknamed \"Florida\" because it is for the elderly and mentally ill prisoners. When the prison restarts the kickball league that had been discontinued years before, she joins and quickly becomes a star player.\n\nAccording to Tom Meltzer of \"The Guardian\", \"Shakespeare-quoting loner 'Crazy Eyes' invites pity, shock, reproach and belly-laughs in equal measure.\" \"The Huffington Post\" Canada entertainment editor Chris Jancelewicz, noted that after the first six episodes of season two, he was impressed by this appropriately nicknamed character: \"Girl is crazy, and Aduba is genuinely frightening in the role. You can't tell if she's harmless or secretly plotting Piper's death\".\n\nAduba won Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series at the 66th Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards as well as Best Guest Performer in a Comedy Series at the 4th Critics' Choice Television Awards and was nominated for Best Supporting Actress – Series, Miniseries or Television Film at the 18th Satellite Awards for her season 1 performance.\n\nAduba's season 2 performance earned her the Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Comedy Series at the 21st Screen Actors Guild Awards and a nomination Best Supporting Actress – Series, Miniseries or Television Film at the 72nd Golden Globe Awards. At the 67th Primetime Emmy Awards, due to recent rule changes, the show was forced to compete as a drama series rather than a comedy one and Aduba was nominated and won for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series. Previously, Lou Grant played by Ed Asner was the only character for whom an actor had won both drama and comedy Emmy recognition (but in different shows). She also earned a nomination at the 46th NAACP Image Awards for Outstanding Actress in a Comedy Series.\n\nAduba's season 3 performance earned another Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Comedy Series win for the 22nd Screen Actors Guild Awards. She earned a second nomination for Outstanding Actress in a Comedy Series at the 47th NAACP Image Awards. She also earned a Best Supporting Actress – Series, Miniseries or Television Film at the 73rd Golden Globe Awards.\n\nAt the 69th Primetime Emmy Awards, Aduba was again nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series.\n\n"}
{"id": "20386856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20386856", "title": "Day Without Art", "text": "Day Without Art\n\nDay Without Art (DWA) is an annual event where art museums and other organizations organize programs to raise awareness of AIDS, remember people who have died, and inspire positive action.\n\nDay Without Art began on December 1, 1989 as the national day of action and mourning in response to the AIDS crisis, which had rapidly and conspicuously decimated the artistic community. To make the public aware that AIDS can touch everyone, and inspire positive action, some 800 U.S. art and AIDS groups participated in the first Day Without Art, shutting down museums, sending staff to volunteer at AIDS services, or sponsoring special exhibitions of work about AIDS. Since then, Day With(out) Art has grown into a collaborative project in which an estimated 8,000 national and international museums, galleries, art centers, AIDS service organizations, libraries, high schools and colleges take part.\n\nIn the past, \"Visual AIDS\" initiated public actions and programs, published an annual poster and copyright-free broadsides, and acted as press coordinator and clearing house for projects for Day Without Art/World AIDS Day. In 1997, it was suggested Day Without Art become a Day \"With\" Art, to recognize and promote increased programming of cultural events that draw attention to the continuing pandemic. Though \"the name was retained as a metaphor for the chilling possibility of a future day without art or artists\", we added parentheses to the program title, Day With(out) Art, to highlight the proactive programming of art projects by artists living with HIV/AIDS, and art about AIDS, that were taking place around the world. It had become clear that active interventions within the annual program were far more effective than actions to negate or reduce the programs of cultural centers. In 2014, the Los Angeles art collective, My Barbarian, staged a video performance in remembrance of Pedro Zamora, inspired by the queer theorist, José Esteban Muñoz's theory of counterpublicity.\n\nThe inaugural Day without Art exhibition held in New Zealand opened on 1 December 1995, at the Southland Museum and Art Gallery. Curated by Wayne P. Marriott, the installation was undertaken by Daniel McKnight, Vicky Byrne and Marriott. In 1996 the Southland Museum and Art Gallery was awarded a New Zealand AIDS Foundation media award for its work in promoting a better understanding of the impact of HIV/AIDS on the wider community. The museum continued to annually host a Day without Art exhibition until 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "83543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83543", "title": "Eau de Cologne", "text": "Eau de Cologne\n\nEau de Cologne (; German: Kölnisch Wasser ; meaning \"Water from Cologne\"), or simply cologne, is a perfume originating from Cologne, Germany. Originally mixed by Johann Maria Farina in 1709, it has since come to be a generic term for scented formulations in typical concentration of 2–5% and also more depending upon its type essential oils or a blend of extracts, alcohol, and water. \nIn a base of dilute ethanol (70–90%), eau de cologne contains a mixture of citrus oils including oils of lemon, orange, tangerine, clementine, bergamot, lime, grapefruit, blood orange, and bitter orange. It can also contain oils of neroli, lavender, rosemary, thyme, oregano, petitgrain (orange leaf), jasmine, olive, oleaster, and tobacco.\n\nIn contemporary American English usage, the term \"cologne\" has become a generic term for perfumes usually marketed towards men. It also may signify a less concentrated (but more affordable) version of a popular perfume. \n\nThe original \"Eau de Cologne\" is a spirit-citrus perfume launched in Cologne in 1709 by Giovanni Maria Farina (1685–1766), an Italian perfume maker from Santa Maria Maggiore Valle Vigezzo. In 1708, Farina wrote to his brother Jean Baptiste: \"I have found a fragrance that reminds me of an Italian spring morning, of mountain daffodils and orange blossoms after the rain\". He named his fragrance \"Eau de Cologne\", in honour of his new hometown.\n\nThe \"Original Eau de Cologne 4711\", is named after its location at Glockengasse No. 4711. It was also developed in the 18th century by Wilhelm Mülhens and produced in Cologne since at least 1799 and is therefore probably one of the oldest still produced fragrances in the world. On 12 December 2006, the perfumes and cosmetics company Mäurer & Wirtz took over 4711 from Procter & Gamble and has expanded it to a whole brand since then.\n\nThe \"Eau de Cologne\" composed by Farina was used only as a perfume and delivered to \"nearly all royal houses in Europe\". His ability to produce a constantly homogeneous fragrance consisting of dozens of monoessences was seen as a sensation at the time. A single vial of this \"aqua mirabilis\" (Latin for miracle water) cost half the annual salary of a civil servant. When free trade was established in Cologne by the French in 1797, the success of \"Eau de Cologne\" prompted countless other businessmen to sell their own fragrances under the name of \"Eau de Cologne\". Giovanni Maria Farina's formula has been produced in Cologne since 1709 by Farina opposite the Jülichplatz and to this day remains a secret. His shop at Obenmarspforten opened in 1709 and is today the world's oldest fragrance factory.\n\nIn 1806, Jean Marie Joseph Farina, a grand-grand-nephew of Giovanni Maria Farina (1685–1766), opened a perfumery business in Paris that was later sold to Roger & Gallet. That company now owns the rights to \"Eau de Cologne extra vieille\" in contrast to the \"Original Eau de Cologne\" from Cologne. Originally the water of Cologne was believed to have the power to ward off bubonic plague. By drinking the cologne the citrus oil scent would be exuded through the pores, repelling fleas. Much as flea shampoo for dogs can be based on citrus oils today.\n\nIn modern times, \"Eau de Cologne\" or \"cologne\", has become a generic term. The term \"cologne\" can be applied to perfume for men or women, but it conventionally refers to perfumes marketed towards men.\n\nIn former Soviet countries (mainly Russia), varieties of Troynoy \"Eau de Cologne\" may be used as a surrogate alcohol among poor alcoholics, especially because it is very cheaply priced compared to vodka.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3058347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3058347", "title": "Folk hero", "text": "Folk hero\n\nA folk hero or national hero is a type of hero – real, fictional or mythological – with the sole salient characteristic being the imprinting of his or her name, personality and deeds in the popular consciousness of a people. This presence in the popular consciousness is evidenced by its historical frequency in folk songs, folk tales and other folklore; and its modern trope status in literature, art and films.\n\nAlthough some folk heroes are historical public figures, many are not. The lives of folk heroes are generally fictional, their characteristics and deeds often exaggerated to mythic proportions.\n\nThe folk hero often begins life as a normal person, but is transformed into someone extraordinary by significant life events, often in response to social injustice, and sometimes in response to natural disasters.\n\nOne major category of folk hero is the defender of the common people against the oppression or corruption of the established power structure. Members of this category of folk hero often, but not necessarily, live outside the law in some way.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3626156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3626156", "title": "Frost French", "text": "Frost French\n\nFrost French was a British fashion label established in 1999 and run by the British movie actress Sadie Frost and Jemima French.\n\nFrost French was created by Sadie Frost and Jemima French, who have been friends since they were fifteen. The fashion label began in London as a design based studio in 1999. At first the company sold only knickers and lingerie, though later expanded to a full women's wear collection.\nThe company had an Autumn/Winter debut show, which featured Kate Moss's strip tease, on February 17, 2001, at the Duke of York's Theatre in the West End of London.\n\nDuring the London fashion week in 2003, they named their show the \"Frost French Tea Party\" at Regent's Park Open Air Theatre. After the exhibition ended, they hosted an afternoon tea party in collaborated with the Tea Council of Great Britain. In 2004, they won the Elle Style Award for \"Best British Designer\". In 2006, Frost and French appeared as guest judges on Project Catwalk's season 1, episode 2. In September 2007, Frost French opened a boutique store in Islington, London.\n\nThe fashion label fell into administration due to £4.2 million worth of debt in 2008 until John Jaokim, a Norwegian film producer and a property investor, bailed out Frost French by investing in the company. John Jaokim joined the board of directors after helping the fashion label financially. In 2009, they sought help from sales agents to reposition their brand and improve product distribution. In the same year, they decided to open their second boutique at Soho in London. The fashion label designed their second store to reflect the playful aesthetic side of Frost French.\n\nAlthough Frost French recovered in 2008, the company continued to face troubles in 2010 as they suffered a £500,000 loss. Also, John Jaokim and Dominic McVey had resigned, as directors, leaving only Frost and French. Their Spring/Summer 2011 collection was discontinued. Frost and French blamed the management team and the label's strategic direction when the company officially went out of business in 2011. As a result, all of Frost French's stores in Islington and Soho had closed down.\n\nAfter the company disappeared, Frost and French continued to design lingerie, swimwear, and nightwear for the company's sister brands Floozie and Iris & Edie. Early in 2014, the owners gave an official statement of Frost French's plans to relaunch the company. The fashion label said that the relaunch would happen around September 2014 with the first design meeting being held in February 2014. As of 2016, the label has not relaunched, but continues to live on under the \"Floozie by Frost and French\" brand.\n\nFrost French described their products as: \"classical with a twist of pop.\" According to the designers, their clothing appeals to the likes of a youthful London girl. They originally produced knickers for women, but they expanded their product line to a full women's wear collection, which includes coats, dresses, lingerie, shirts, and accessories. They have collaborated with Peugeot, GHD, 17 Cosmetics, and Olay in a variety of projects. They also had a contract with Liptons and they sold lipstick-stained teacups, which was an activity for their 'drink gorgeous' campaign.\n"}
{"id": "14589494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14589494", "title": "Georgetown Little Theatre", "text": "Georgetown Little Theatre\n\nGeorgetown Little Theatre is a community theatre group based in Georgetown, Ontario. Formed in 1960, it is one of the oldest continuously existing community theaters in Canada. The theater group performs regularly at the John Elliott Theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "1825773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1825773", "title": "Geri Jewell", "text": "Geri Jewell\n\nGeraldine Ann \"Geri\" Jewell (born September 13, 1956) is an American actress and stand-up comedian noted for roles on the 1980s sitcom \"The Facts of Life\" and the mid 2000s western \"Deadwood\".\n\nOriginally from Buffalo, New York, she is most famous for her role of Geri Warner on the television program \"The Facts of Life\" from 1980 to 1984. This role made her the first person with a visible disability to have a recurring role on a prime-time series, as well as the first actor with cerebral palsy to be featured on a TV series. After she dropped out of college, Jewell began her career doing stand up comedy at The Comedy Store in 1978. In 1980, she performed at the 2nd Annual Media Access Awards, when she was introduced to Norman Lear by producer, Fern Field.\n\nJewell appeared as the recurring character Jewel on the HBO original series \"Deadwood\" from 2004—2006.\n\nShe has been the recipient of many awards, including the 1992 Founders Award, the 2005 Independent Living Legacy Award, and a National Rehabilitation Hospital Victory Award (in 2006).\n\nHer autobiography \"I'm Walking as Straight as I Can\" was published in 2011 by ECW Press. The title refers to the facts that she has cerebral palsy and is a lesbian.\n\nJewell's original autobiography, \"Geri\", published in 1984, talked about her personal and professional life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15466379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15466379", "title": "Helen of Troy (painting)", "text": "Helen of Troy (painting)\n\nHelen of Troy is an 1898 painting by Evelyn De Morgan depicting Helen of Troy; it was commissioned by William Imrie of Liverpool.\n\nCompositionally, the painting is similar to De Morgan's \"Flora\" and \"Cassandra\": Helena is standing upright and tall, in a peaceful posture that reminds to Boticcelli's representations of Greek and Roman goddesses (such as Athena or Venus) that are, at the same time, an evocation of classical art, a usual characteristic between Renaissance artists. Helena has been removed from the common artistic elements of the Trojan War: despite dealing with a typically bellic topic, De Morgan decides to paint, instead of weapons and battles, the wonderful pink clothes and the fascinated look that Helena puts on the mirror that is reflecting her beautiful face, elements that can be read as symbols of her inconscient vanity, which eventually brought a long and terrible war and destruction to the city of Troy, which we can see in the last term of the composition, on top of a hill. The presence of the moon-sun in the sky is also related to her feminine and voluble nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "29463216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29463216", "title": "Hoosier Salon", "text": "Hoosier Salon\n\nThe Hoosier Salon is an annual juried art exhibition that features the work of Indiana artists and provides them with an outlet to market their work. The Hoosier Salon Patron's Association, the nonprofit arts organization that organizes the event, also operates year-round galleries in Carmel, Indiana and New Harmony, Indiana. These spaces host exhibitions of Salon artists throughout the year, as well as workshops and demonstrations. An artist must have lived in Indiana and must be a member of the Hoosier Salon arts organization to become eligible for the Salon's exhibitions. The Hoosier Salon has exhibited art from many of Indiana's most notable painters, sculptors, cartoonists, and mixed-media artists, including Hoosier Group artists, several members of the Brown County Art Colony, and other artists with ties to Indiana.\n\nThe Daughters of Indiana, a group of women who were born in Indiana but resided in the Chicago metropolitan area, hosted the first annual Hoosier Salon in 1925 at the Marshall Field and Company's galleries in Chicago. In 1942 the annual exhibition was relocated to Indianapolis, Indiana, where it has been held at several venues, including the William H. Block Company and the L. S. Ayres and Company department stores, the Indiana State Museum, and the Indiana Historical Society. The Hoosier Salon has survived wars, economic recessions, a fire, venue changes for its annual exhibition, relocation of its offices and gallery spaces, and modifications to its outreach programs. In 2014 the Hoosier Salon celebrated its ninetieth continuous year of annual exhibitions.\n\nThe Hoosier Salon is a statewide nonprofit arts organization whose mission is to \"create an appreciation of art by promoting Hoosier artists and their art.\" The Salon's exhibitions also provide viewers an opportunity to see and appreciate the talents of artists with ties to Indiana. The organization's vision is to foster an appreciation for visual art through activities that \"educate, inspire, and enhance the lives of the citizens of our state while promoting the creativity, talent and technique of Indiana artists.\"\n\nThe idea for the Hoosier Salon originated in May 1924, when the 160-member Daughters of Indiana, a group of women who were born in Indiana but resided in the Chicago metro area, held a gathering devoted to Hoosier painters. Following this initial meeting, Estella King, chair of the group's arts committee, led the organization's plans for an exhibition featuring high quality artwork from Hoosier artists that would help gain more recognition for them outside of Indiana. The group's goals were to inspire Indiana artists to develop their talents, to showcase artists who depicted Indiana themes in their work, and to provide an opportunity to market their art.\n\nThe Hoosier Salon's name and concept come from the nineteenth-century French tradition of annual art exhibitions held in the Grand Palais des Champs- Élysées in Paris, France. Chicago, Illinois, was selected as the site for the first Hoosier Salon because of its large population and its reputation as a midwestern art center. The annual Salon ran in Chicago from 1925 through 1941, when it moved to Indianapolis, Indiana. Since January 1942 the annual exhibition has taken place at various sites around Indianapolis.\n\nThe first Hoosier Salon ran from March 9 to 19, 1925, at the art galleries of Marshall Field and Company at 28 East Washington Street in Chicago. The Daughters of Indiana, who organized and sponsored the first Salon, were assisted by several other groups, such as the Indiana Society of Chicago and volunteers from Chicago's Earlham College Alumni Association.\n\nThe first Hoosier Salon was open to painters who had lived in Indiana for at least a year. Entries for the juried exhibition were submitted from across the United States. The selections featured 253 works of art from 132 artists. Hoosier Group artist T. C. Steele and his wife, Selma, attended the opening of the Salon's first exhibition, which was well received by art critics and the public.\n\nAmong the first exhibition's favorites was a set of three \"Little Orphan Annie\" cartoons from their creator, Harold Gray, a 1917 graduate of Purdue University. Hoosier artists whose work also appeared at the first Salon included all four Hoosier Group members who were still living (T.C. Steele, William Forsyth, Otto Stark, and J. Ottis Adams). Other exhibitors with Indiana ties included Wayman Elbridge Adams, Frank V. Dudley, Frederick M. Polley, J. Will Vawter, Eugene Savage, and Clifton Wheeler, among others. Traditional Indiana landscapes and still-life paintings were represented, as well as works from Hoosier artists who lived outside the state.\n\nAt the first Hoosier Salon merit prizes were awarded to Steele for \"Winter Morning, First Snow\", judged best picture and painted by a man more than sixty years of age. Wayman Adams won a $200 merit award for his oil portrait of Indiana author Booth Tarkington, and Forsyth's \"Glory of Autumn\" still life won a $100 merit prize. Savage, who was originally from Covington, Indiana, won the top prize of $500 for \"Recessional\". Thirty percent of the accepted entries came from women artists, including two works submitted by Marie Goth. Several women were recognized with merit prizes for their art: Dorothy Morlan for \"Frosty Morning, Southern Indiana\"; Lucy M. Taggert for \"Eleanor\"; Laura A. Fry for \"A Shaft of Sunlight\"; Lucie Hartrath for \"The Valley, Morning\"; and Maude Kaufman Eggemeyer for \"A Garden\". Louise Zaring received a prize for Best Marine Scene.\n\nMarguerite B. Williams, art critic for the \"Chicago Daily News\", remarked at the time of the first Salon that Indiana was well known for its writers; however, \"it would seem that some of this desire for self-expression has overflowed into painting for there is probably no other state that could show as many and such a high average of practically unknown painters.\" Hoosier authors Tarkington, George Ade, and Meredith Nicholson supported the idea of an annual exhibition featuring Indiana artists. In the forward to the Hoosier Salon's exhibition catalog in 1926, Nicholson wrote, \"we are anxious for our brothers and sisters who paint or draw or sculpt to have their day in court, just as we have had it.\"\n\nFollowing the critical and popular success of the first exhibition, the Daughters of Indiana wanted to make it an annual event that was open to artists with ties to Indiana. In 1926 the second Hoosier Salon ran for fourteen days at Marshall Field's galleries in Chicago. It featured 339 works by 149 artists and drew more than 50,000 visitors. For the first time the show was opened to sculpture in addition to paintings. Janet Scudder, a native of Terre Haute, Indiana, who gained an international reputation for her work as a sculptor, earned the $300 merit prize for her outstanding sculpture called \"Victory\". Wayman Adams won the $500 merit prize for the exhibition's outstanding picture, \"The Art Jury\", a life-size portrait of the four surviving members of the Hoosier Group–Steele, Stark, J. Ottis Adams, and Forsyth. (Steele and Stark died by the end of 1926; J. Ottis Adams died in 1927.) William Edouard Scott, a former student of Stark, was one of the first African American artists to participate in the Hoosier Salon. Scott exhibited \"Lights on a Summer Night\" at the second Hoosier Salon.\n\nIn 1926, after the Daughters of Chicago hosted the second exhibition, the group partnered with other art patrons to formally organize the Hoosier Salon Patrons Association, a nonprofit organization that would continue the event and its original mission of recognizing talented Indiana artists. John C. Shaffer, editor and publisher of the \"Chicago Evening Post\", the \"Indianapolis Star\", and newspapers in Muncie, Indiana, and Terre Haute, Indiana, became the Association's first president. Estella King, a native of Peru, Indiana, and chair of the Daughters of Indiana art committee for the first two Hoosier Salons, became the group's executive chairman. In addition to the Hoosier Salon Patrons Association, ongoing sponsors and supporters of the annual Hoosier Salon have included Kappa Kappa Kappa, first connected to the Salon in 1927; Delta Sigma Kappa sorority, a supporter since 1937; and Psi Iota Xi, a sponsor since 1941.\n\nIn addition to hosting the annual Salon during its seventeen-year run in Illinois, the patron’s association opened a year-round gallery on October 15, 1928, in donated space in the \"Chicago Evening Post\" Building on West Wacker Drive. Art that had appeared in at least one of the Salons could be exhibited and sold at the Chicago gallery. The Association also hosted traveling exhibitions, a tradition that continued over the years.\n\nFor a brief time the group's Hoosier Program Bureau, which was formed in 1929, helped Hoosier musicians secure public appearances. The offering was discontinued in 1941, when the Salon moved its headquarters to Indianapolis and the group decided to focus on visual arts.\n\nDuring its early years, not all of the Salon's exhibitions were held in Chicago. In June 1936 the Hoosier Salon held its annual exhibition during the summer months at the Spink-Wawasee Hotel at Lake Wawasee in Indiana. In 1937 the Art Department of the Woman's Department Club of Indianapolis sponsored a traveling Hoosier Salon exhibition at the William H. Block Company's department store in downtown Indianapolis. Following the success of this event in Indianapolis and continued support from the department store, the Woman's Department Club was instrumental in helping to move the Salon's headquarters and its annual exhibition to Indianapolis in 1942. Around this same time several of the early leaders in Chicago began to retire, moved away, or experienced failing health, so it was not unexpected that on June 30, 1941, the Salon's trustees formally voted to approve the move of its headquarters to Indianapolis.\n\nIn late 1941 the Hoosier Salon Patrons Association moved into two donated rooms in the State Life Building (also known as the Thomas Building) on Washington Street in Indianapolis. These rooms also served as the Association's art gallery until 1973, when fire destroyed the building. After the Salon's relocation to Indiana, several new sponsors began their longtime support of the Hoosier Salon. Representatives from the Woman's Department Club and its Art Department, Kappa Kappa Kappa, Psi Iota Xi, and women from the Indiana Federation of Clubs and the Indiana Federation of Art Clubs formed the Hoosier Salon Executive Committee.\n\nAfter the move from Chicago, the Association's next annual Hoosier Salon opened in downtown Indianapolis on January 19, 1942, for a two-week run in the sixth-floor auditorium of the William H. Block Company department store at Market and Illinois Streets. The event took place shortly after the bombing at Pearl Harbor, and the war effort \"dominated the show.\" Lillian Alt's \"Men and Guns\" and William A. Eyden Jr.'s \"Steel for Defense\" were among the 261 pieces on display. The annual Salon was scaled back during World War II, and the wartime themes that continued for several years frequently outnumbered the usual landscapes, still lifes, and portraits.\n\nIn 1949 the Hoosier Salon marked its twenty-fifth year, a significant achievement that also achieved national recognition. After the Salon's run in Indianapolis, a special exhibition featuring all 168 pieces from the Indiana show were exhibited at the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American Art in April 1949. The Indiana State Society of Washington, D.C., sponsored two fund-raising events for the Salon's exhibition in Washington, D.C.—a style show at the Mayflower Hotel and a dance at the Shoreham Hotel, where Hoosier songwriter Hoagy Carmichael and his wife, Ruth, were special guests.\n\nIn the 1950s several artists who had contributed to the first exhibitions in Chicago continued to submit works for the Salons, including Polley, Wheeler, and Wayman Adams, among others. Salons in the 1960s marked the changing times for Hoosier artists with the introduction of new materials, such as prints, metal sculpture, collage, and fewer of the more traditional landscapes of southern Indiana.\n\nJust a few weeks before the Hoosier Salon's fiftieth anniversary exhibition of 1974, disaster struck. On November 5, 1973, a fire destroyed the Thomas Building, including the Salon's historical materials and 311 paintings. The Association established temporary offices at the back of the William A. Block department store’s auditorium and resumed plans for the annual exhibition. A Lilly Endowment grant of $5,000 and additional $1,000 contributions from several sponsors allowed the Hoosier Salon to open in January 1974, although the other planned events were cancelled. The Salon's fiftieth anniversary exhibition included 163 pieces from 117 different artists. Goth and William A. Eyden Jr. were honored at the annual event. Both of these artists had contributed art for the original exhibition in 1925.\n\nThe annual Hoosier Salon exhibition remained at Block's department store in Indianapolis from 1942 to 1977. The event moved to the L. S. Ayres department store in downtown Indianapolis at Meridian and Washington Streets in 1978, and remained there until 1989. From 1990 to 2011 the annual exhibition was held at the Indiana State Museum. In 2012 the exhibition moved to the Indiana Historical Society's Eugene and Marilyn Glick Indiana History Center in Indianapolis. The annual juried art exhibition continues to showcase the works of Hoosier artists from all walks of life. In 2014 the Hoosier Salon celebrated its ninetieth consecutive annual exhibition.\n\nIn November 1974 the Hoosier Salon purchased the Victorian-era Bals-Wocher mansion on Indianapolis's North Delaware Street as the new location for its year-round gallery. Because the nonprofit did not have the funds to operate two galleries, it closed its gallery in the former Indianapolis Hilton Hotel lobby at Meridian and Ohio Streets in December 1974. By 1978 the Bals-Wocher mansion proved too costly for the group to maintain, so the Salon sold it and moved its gallery to the Morrison Opera building on Indianapolis's South Meridian Street, where it had been renting office space.\n\nIn March 1991 the Association relocated its offices to North College Avenue in Indianapolis's Broad Ripple Village, where it had previously established a year-round gallery. The Hoosier Salon operated two other galleries in addition to the one in Broad Ripple. One gallery was at New Harmony, Indiana; the other at Wabash, Indiana. As of 2014 the Hoosier Salon maintained gallery space at New Harmony, but the Wabash gallery closed and the property owner converted it to another purpose.\n\nAlthough the annual Hoosier Salon remains the organization's biggest event, it also provides other outreach efforts. In 2006 the Hoosier Salon initiated the French tradition of a Salon Des Refusés (exhibition of rejects) at its Broad Ripple gallery. The Salon also provides educational outreach to schools and collaborates with other organizations to promote the arts.\n\nIn May 2014 the Hoosier Salon closed its main gallery in Broad Ripple and moved to a new gallery space in the Carmel Arts and Design District in Carmel, Indiana.\n\nSince 1925, many of Indiana's most notable artists have exhibited at the Hoosier Salon. In order to qualify as a Salon exhibitor, an artist must be a Hoosier Salon member and must have lived in Indiana for a minimum of one year at any point during their life. Salon entries are independently reviewed by experienced judges in the art field and selected for the annual exhibition. The works of well-established master artists are displayed alongside the work of newcomers to the field.\n\nThe annual Hoosier Salon claims ties to the Hoosier Group and several members of the Brown County Art Colony. However, not all of the Salon's art has Indiana as it subject. Work from Salon artists with Hoosier ties is inspired from locales outside Indiana as well. New York City-based Wayman Adams, born near Muncie, Indiana, exhibited his artwork at the Salon for thirty-five years. Several southwestern artists were linked to Indiana as well. Shelbyville, Indiana, native William Victor Higgins, who was a member of New Mexico's \"Taos Ten\", and Gustave Baumann, who worked in Brown County, Indiana, for seven years before moving to Santa Fe, New Mexico, in 1918, were Salon exhibitors. Fairmount, Indiana, native Olive Rush, whose art studio was in Santa Fe, was a Salon prizewinner.\n\nIn the past, Hoosier cartoonists have been well represented at the Salons. In addition to comic-strip illustrator Harold Gray's \"Little Orphan Annie\", cartoonists who competed for the Salon's prizes and recognition were Frank McKinney \"Kin\" Hubbard's nationally syndicated \"Abe Martin\" cartoons; Gaar Williams, who created \"Among the Folks in History\"; Fontaine Fox, creator of the syndicated cartoon\"Toonerville Trolley\"; and Pulitzer Prize-winner John T. McCutcheon, who drew editorial cartoons. Gray, Hubbard, Williams, and McCutcheon also provided artwork to help advertise the Salon.\n\nIn more recent years Salon entries have changed to reflect the new artistic styles of Hoosier artists. Past Salon works have included Kanwal Prakash (K. P.) Singh's architectural renderings, lithographs from Garo Z. Antreasian, watercolors from Floyd Hopper, portraits by Nancy Noel, the acrylics of James Lee Cunningham, and abstract art from Martha Slaymaker.\n\nThe following is a partial list of past exhibitors:\n\nThe Hoosier Salon became known for \"offering one of the richest purses in the United States.\" For the first Hoosier Salon in 1925 the top merit prize was $500, and the total merit prize money was $4,375. In 2009 its best of show won a record $10,000, and the total merit prize money for that year exceeded $25,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32554033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32554033", "title": "How the Toys Saved Christmas", "text": "How the Toys Saved Christmas\n\nHow the Toys Saved Christmas (Original Italian title \"La freccia azzurra\", ) is a 1996 Italian animated film directed by Enzo D'Alò.\n\nWhen Santa's helper La Befana falls ill and must take off a Christmas Eve, she recruits Scarafoni to help deliver all the toys. No one but the toys knows is that Scarafoni plans to auction off the toys to the highest bidder, which means the toys won't make it to the children who have been good all year and deserve them. The toys decide to deliver themselves starting with a wind-up teddy bear going to the little boy's bed, and the story follows them as they struggle to avoid the heartless Scarafoni and to find their true homes. Meanwhile, a young boy named Francesco tries to find his true Christmas present - one special friend. In the end, the toys deliver themselves, but Scarafoni still has the money. However, everyone rushes to the toy shop and find Scarafoni with the money and manage to get it back from him, as Scarafoni is sent to prison. Francesco gets his true friend - a new puppy whose name is Jingles (voiced by Sonja Ball).\n\nIn 1997, the film was imported to the U.S. and released direct-to-video by Buena Vista Home Video, under the title \"How the Toys Saved Christmas\" (although, as shown in the previews, originally going to be titled \"The Toys Who Saved Christmas\"). The film featured Mary Tyler Moore as the voice for the Befana, who was named \"Granny Rose\", Tony Randall as Scarafoni (whose name suggest \"scarafaggio\" that means beetle), who was named \"Mr. Grimm\", and Michael Caloz as Francesco, who was named \"Christopher Winter\". The film also had some scenes from the original Italian release deleted or placed before other scenes, along with some music scores taken out and new music added in.\n\nIn the original version, the story took place during the Epiphany Eve, because in Italian folklore the Befana is a good witch that gives presents and candies to the children during the night between 5 and 6 January.\n\nBuena Vista Home Video released the film in its English-dubbed version on DVD in 2003. Echo Bridge Home Entertainment re-released the film on DVD in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "3837845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3837845", "title": "Identification (literature)", "text": "Identification (literature)\n\nIdentification is a term used in literary and film studies to describe a psychological relationship between the reader of a novel and a character in the book, or between a spectator in the audience and a character on screen. In both cases, readers and spectators see themselves in the fictional character.\n\nIdentification is usually supposed to be largely unconscious: a reader may be aware that she likes a given character, but not that she actually sees that character as an alter ego, a version of her, or a projection of her aspirations for herself. It would be a mistake to think all heroes foster identification, or that all villains inhibit identification—many, perhaps even most, characters elicit some degree of identification on the part of the reader or spectator. In film, Alfred Hitchcock exploited the traits of casual identification with specific moments, even when the character was villainous. In \"Psycho\" (1960), Hitchcock explained that as the character Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) was disposing of the car containing Marion Crane's body in a swamp, for a brief moment he had the car stop sinking. \"When Perkins is looking at the car sinking in the pond... the public are thinking, 'I hope it goes all the way down!' It's a natural instinct.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14356426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14356426", "title": "Jazzmobile", "text": "Jazzmobile\n\nJazzmobile, Inc. is based in New York City, and was founded in 1964 by Daphne Arnstein, an arts patron and founder of the Harlem Cultural Council and Dr. William \"Billy\" Taylor. It is a multifaceted, outreach organization committed to bringing \"America's Classical Music\"—Jazz—to the largest possible audience by producing concerts, festivals and special events worldwide. The Jazzmobile educational efforts are now being enhanced by the creation of a not-for-profit music publishing company and not-for-profit recording company.\n\nSince 1964, Jazzmobile has been presenting Free Outdoor Summer Mobile Concerts, bringing jazz musicians to the five boroughs of New York City, Washington D.C., Maryland, Virginia, Essex County, New Jersey, Westchester County, and several cities in upstate New York. Concerts are funded by the New York State Council on the Arts, the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs, and corporate sponsors such as Anheuser-Busch, ASCAP Foundation, Louis Armstrong Educational Foundation and Billy Taylor Foundation. Jazzmobile presents, as part of its outdoor concert series, 5 to 10 Afro-Latin/Jazz bands on the Jazzmobile's mobile band stage, annually. Jazzmobile is not a membership organization. Using a multi-arts approach (music, dance, drama, poetry, visual and media arts), Jazzmobile's program is designed to teach and encourage students to express themselves through the creative arts.\n\nIn the very beginning of Jazzmobile in the 1960s, John Coltrane, Jimmy Heath, Dizzy Gillespie, Horace Silver, Pharoah Sanders, Albert Ayler, Archie Shepp, Sun Ra, Cecil Taylor, and other black players, played in the neighborhood festivals. Past students includes Warren Benbow (drums); Roy Campbell, Jr. (trumpet); Suezenne Fordham (piano); Najee (saxophone); T. K. Blue (saxophone); just to name a few.\n\nIn 1990, Jazzmobile's Tribute Concert for founder Dr. Billy Taylor, part of the JVC Jazz Festival, that featured Nancy Wilson, Ahmad Jamal Trio and Terence Blanchard Quintet. Jazz vocalist Lynette Washington in 2005 was 1st Place Winner in the Jazzmobile Anheuser-Busch Jazz Vocal Competition.\n\nNotable staff members:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21783047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21783047", "title": "List of Wuthering Heights references", "text": "List of Wuthering Heights references\n\nThis is a list of cultural references to \"Wuthering Heights\", which was Emily Brontë's only novel, specifically in literature and music. It was first published in 1847 under the pseudonym Ellis Bell, and a posthumous second edition was edited by her sister Charlotte. For adaptations of the novel, see List of \"Wuthering Heights\" adaptations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20070070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20070070", "title": "Marcia Young", "text": "Marcia Young\n\nMarcia Young (née Williams) is a Canadian broadcast journalist and host of \"World Report,\" a national current events program on CBC Radio.\n\nYoung was born in Toronto, but spent her early childhood in Jamaica where she was raised by her grandparents. She returned to Toronto at the age of 6 to attend school. She is a graduate of Ryerson University's journalism school.\n\nYoung began her broadcasting career in sports radio at The Fan 590 in Toronto. She then worked behind the microphone as a researcher and production coordinator for Life Network, on one of the first magazine lifestyle shows in Canada.\n\nIn 1998, Young moved to CBC Television as a researcher for \"\", CBC Television's flagship nightly newscast. She subsequently landed gigs as a local television news reporter in Toronto, Saskatoon and Regina.\n\nYoung returned to Toronto as a television anchor and reporter at Citytv, where she reported on the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster, the SARS crisis, and the Iraq War. In 2004, she became the anchor of \"Canada at Five\" on CBC Radio. Marcia has hosted \"Main Street\" (PEI), \"The World at Six\", CBC's flagship radio newscast, \"World Report\", and has co-hosted \"As It Happens\".\n\nShe was the first host of \"The World This Hour\", has hosted \"The World This Weekend\" and \"The World at Six\" and is currently a host of \"World Report\".\n\nYoung is a supporter of child literacy in Canada and abroad.\n\nShe has also been a frequent host for community and charity-based organizations in the Greater Toronto Area including Design Hope Toronto's charity auction for Dixon Hall, the Osu Children's Library Fund, the Jamaican Canadian Association Scholarship Awards, the Applause Institute's Black Cotillion Ball, Jamaica College Old Boys' Association of Canada, CareerEdge Organization and the African Canadian Achievement Awards.\n\nShe is a former board member of Give Girls A Chance, a fundraising initiative created to provide educational opportunities for girls and young women in Canada and around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "50954960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50954960", "title": "Morris Kestelman", "text": "Morris Kestelman\n\nMorris Kestelman (5 October 1905 – 15 June 1998) was a British artist and teacher. Kestelman was a full-time art teacher and only began exhibiting on a regular basis towards the end of his life and is now best known for the paintings of working people and landscapes he produced during the 1940s and 1950s as well as his later abstract work.\n\nKestelmans' parents were Jewish immigrants from Russia and he was born and raised in the midst of the Jewish community in Whitechapel in the East End of London, where his father worked as a cabinet maker. Kestelman obtained a scholarship to the Central School of Art and Design in 1922, where his teachers included both A.S. Hartrick and Bernard Meninsky. Meninsky introduced Kestelman, who became a lifelong friend, to the London Group and he, Kestelman, helped with the organization of the Group's 1926 exhibition. Hartricks' teaching led Kestelman to an appreciation of French art and he would visit France for extended periods most years from 1930 onwards. \n\nAfter graduating from the Central School in 1925, Kestelman enrolled at the Royal College of Art where he studied until 1929. During this time he developed a talent for theatre and stage design such that he created a number of costume designs for a 1929 production of \"The Magic Flute\" at Birkbeck College. Later he created sets for \"Carmen\" at Sadler's Wells in 1940 and for several productions by the Old Vic Company including the 1944 staging of \"Richard III\" starring Ralph Richardson, Sybil Thorndike and Laurence Olivier at the New Theatre. The publisher Noel Carrington commissioned Kestelman to produce a large series of pastel drawings for a book on the Bertram Mills Circus. The book was never published due to the outbreak of the Second World War.\n\nDuring World War Two, Kestelman served as a full-time air-raid warden and also drew scenes of workers at an aircraft repair factory. One of these drawings was subsequently purchased by the War Artists' Advisory Committee and is now held by the Imperial War Museum. During the War, in 1943, when reports of the Holocaust first reached Britain, Kestelman responded with the painting \"Lama Sabachthani (Why have you forsaken me?)\", whose title is taken from a line in Psalm 22. The painting was first exhibited at the 1943 \"For Liberty\" exhibition organised by the Artists' International Association in the shelter constructed on the bomb site of the John Lewis department store on Oxford Street in central London.\n\nAfter teaching at Wimbledon School of Art, in 1951 Kestelman secured the post of Head of the Painting and Sculpture School at the Central School of Art and Design. He held this post until 1971. Although during this period his time for painting was largely restricted to the college holidays, he still made time to experiment with his art and developed a highly abstract style. Murals by Kestelman were included in exhibitions at the Victoria & Albert Museum in both 1946 and 1960. Memorial exhibitions for Kestelman were held at the Boundary Gallery and at the Friends Room of the Royal Academy in 2001. Further exhibitions of his work were held at Lauderdale House in 2002 and 2003 and at the London Jewish Cultural Centre in 2004. Kestelman also exhibited at the Royal Academy, with the London Group and with the New English Art Club.\n\nKestelman married Dorothy Mary Creagh, a dress designer, in 1936 and the couple had one child, the actress Sara Kestelman.\n\n"}
{"id": "9919102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9919102", "title": "Mrs. John L. Strong", "text": "Mrs. John L. Strong\n\nMrs. John L. Strong is a privately held American luxury company and manufacturer of custom papers and stationery. Founded in 1929 by Mrs. John L. (Flora) Strong, the company has created papers and custom luxury products for seven presidential families, royal houses, prominent members of international society, film stars and celebrities. Called the \"\"ne plus ultra\" of chic stationery companies,\" Mrs. John L. Strong has an important international clientele.\n\nMrs. Strong offers hand-engraving to its clients. Mrs. Strong's bespoke products display a range of crafts which are rarely used by others in the industry, including hand engraving of dies in steel, hand-stamping of dies, hand-mixing of custom varnish inks, hand-beveling and bordering, and hand-lining of envelopes. Mrs. Strong creates its own 100% cotton archival quality papers in its signature color \"Strong's Vanilla\" based on Mrs. Strong's original formulas.\n\nMrs. John L. Strong (née Flora Feldstein) established her eponymous firm in the aftermath of the stock market crash of 1929. Joining forces with her sister, the owner of a luxury trousseau shop called Bournefield Linens, Mrs. Strong began selling wedding and social papers to New York's elite from Bournefield's location at 57th Street and Fifth Avenue.\n\nMrs. Strong's business soon outstripped the space at Bournefield, and she moved her location twice, first to 714 Madison Avenue, and later to the landmark 699 Madison Avenue, originally built as a New York home for the firm Fortnum & Mason, where the firm remains with a fifth floor atelier for private clients and a duplex ground floor boutique.\n\nMrs. Strong joined the \"Street of Shops\" on the first floor at Henri Bendel's in the 1950s. Mrs. Strong also sold through Gump's Department store in San Francisco. From her locations Mrs. Strong created papers for the Duke of Windsor and Wallis, The Duchess of Windsor, Barbara Hutton, the Rockefeller, Astor, Vanderbilt, and DuPont families, as well as Bette Davis, Diana Vreeland, Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy, Barbara Paley, and other icons of style.\n\nAfter the death of Mrs. Strong in 1979, the firm was sold by Strong's heirs to Robert and Joy Lewis. As director, Joy Lewis maintained Strong's standards of quality, refusing to adopt modern methods, and preserving vital techniques of the crafts of artist-engraving and hand-stamping. The Lewises brought master engraver Fred Diefenbach to the firm, where he created dies for twenty years before retiring from engraving in his 90's, leaving Mrs. Strong with one of the largest and most comprehensive collections of dies from the 19th through the 20th century. The firm now boasts a collection of thousands of artist-engraved dies.\n\nIn 2002, the company was purchased by financier Jeffrey Lubin and his wife, designer Nannette Brown. Since 2002, Brown has pioneered the launch of seasonal collections based on fashion trends, known as \"ready to write\" collections, and has expanded the offerings of the company at its various locations by creating new goods in leather and silver. The company continues to expand, attracting an ever-younger and more fashion-oriented clientele, including important fashion designers, architects, artists, and interior designers, in addition to its long-standing clientele of social and international leaders.\n\nOn May 21, 2009, Nannette Brown announced that she would close the business. On September 29, 2009, Crain's New York Business reported that the brand had been purchased in an auction (after filing for Chapter 11 protection in the Southern District of New York in August) by Houston-based private equity firm J.P. Kotts & Co.\n\n\nFlora Strong, Born 28 July 1896, died New York March, 1979.\n\nSource: Social Security Death Index, http://ssdi.rootsweb.com/cgi-bin/ssdi.cgi\n\nRoosevelt, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Bush, and Clinton, Source: MJLS Archives, NYC\n\nPapers have been made for members of the Royal Houses of Great Britain, Greece, and Jordan, as well as various Princely Houses. Source: MJLS Archives, NYC\nVogue, Conde Nast Publications, May 2006\nAIA Guide to New York\"\n"}
{"id": "587025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=587025", "title": "Ohio Art Company", "text": "Ohio Art Company\n\nThe Ohio Art Company is an American toy manufacturing company founded in 1908. Based in Bryan, Ohio, the company is principally engaged in two lines of business. The first line of business is the sales, marketing, and distribution of toys including the Etch A Sketch, and Nanoblock. (The Etch A Sketch and Doodle Sketch brands were sold in early 2016 to Canadian-based company Spin Master.) The second line of business is the company's Diversified Products segment which manufactures custom metal lithography products for food container and specialty premium markets. Examples of these are food tins, enclosures, DVD cases, and nostalgic signs.\n\nHenry Winzeler started up his own manufacturing company in 1908. He rented an area to work in Archbold, Ohio and named it the Ohio Art Company because of his profound interest in art and its location. Winzeler began making metal picture frames and various other novelty items that were sold in retail stores all over the US. The company moved locations in 1912 to Bryan, Ohio where it became even more successful with its Cupid Awake/Cupid Asleep picture frames. The Ohio Art Company then installed metal lithography equipment. This was used to produce picture frames made out of wood-grained metal sheets. In 1917, the Ohio Art Company began manufacturing toys such as the windmills and climbing monkey. After World War I, the toy company grew exponentially, leading to the introduction of colorful tea sets and drums. In the late 1950s, a French electrician named André Cassagnes created a drawing toy that used a joystick, glass and aluminum powder. The combination, which he called the \"Telecran\", gave users the ability to draw a picture and also erase it. After much collaboration with many individuals, the system they developed in the late 1950s is the same one used today. The name of the product was Etch A Sketch. In the 1950s, a man named W.C Killgallon began working for the Ohio Art Company. The Killgallon family still owns and operates the Ohio Art Company. The final product of the Etch A Sketch was first produced on July 12, 1960 at the Bryan, Ohio factory. Though the Ohio Art Company partook in the toy industry and was very successful, the metal lithography sector of the company remains the core part of its business. It is one of the leading producers of specialty lithographic components.\n\nIn 1995, the Etch A Sketch toy was featured in the original \"Toy Story\", in a scene where one performs a \"quick draw\" duel with Woody. This short 12 second feature was enough to give a significant sales boost, requiring the production line to work overtime to meet demand. By 1999, the company had again fallen into severe financial trouble from canceled orders of various products, reaching a point where the solvency of the company was in question. However, the company recovered with the prudent decision to agree to again have an Etch A Sketch appear in an animated feature film - this time in \"Toy Story 2\". This scene featured an Etch A Sketch being used to present sketches related to the investigation of Woody's kidnapping. At 45 seconds, the scene in question was much longer than the scene in the original movie. The exposure from the highly successful Pixar movie resulted in sales of the toy increasing by 20 percent and ensured the survival of the company.\n\nOn February 11, 2016, The Ohio Art Company announced that it has sold its Etch A Sketch and Doodle Sketch brands, in a move designed to allow it to focus on its metal lithography business and invest in its manufacturing operations in Bryan. Ohio Art's other toy lines were not included in the sale.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29511775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29511775", "title": "Pacific Institute of Culinary Arts", "text": "Pacific Institute of Culinary Arts\n\nPacific Institute of Culinary Arts, founded in 1996, is a privately run culinary school located just outside the entrance of Granville Island in Vancouver, British Columbia. The school is fully accredited by the Private Career Training Institutions Agency of British Columbia until 2014.\n\nThe Pacific Institute of Culinary Arts offers diplomas both in Culinary Arts and Pastry Arts; each full-time program runs for 6 months. Classes are held 5 days a week, running approximately 7 hours per day for a total of 917 hours. Four sessions per year are offered, starting in September, January, March and June. The classes are 90% hands-on, the chef-student ratio is 1:15 for Culinary Arts and 1:12 for Pastry Arts. All chef instructors are European-trained and have at least 10 years experience. \n\nAs of September 2010, approximately 2000 students, from Canada and other nations, have graduated from both programs. Applicants do not need to have any prior kitchen experience, but a high school diploma and the ability to read, write and speak English is required. The programs are intended to give students a solid foundation of theoretical and practical training to improve their chances of success in the industry, but they should not expect to go from school directly to an Executive Chef position.\n\nThe school has a restaurant, Bistro 101, and bakeshop, Bakery 101, on the premises. In 2009, 2010, the restaurant was awarded ‘Diners Choice’ by Open Table diners. Culinary students work in the kitchen and in the front of the house as wait staff, while the pastry students make bread and pastries for the restaurant and bakeshop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17363666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17363666", "title": "Philosophical Studies", "text": "Philosophical Studies\n\nPhilosophical Studies is a peer-reviewed academic journal for philosophy in the analytic tradition. The journal is devoted to the publication of papers in exclusively analytic philosophy and welcomes papers applying formal techniques to philosophical problems. It was established in 1950 by Herbert Feigl and Wilfrid Sellars. Starting in 1972, publication was assumed by D. Reidel. It is currently published by Springer, a corporate heir of D. Reidel.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Academic OneFile, Academic Search, Arts & Humanities Citation Index, ProQuest, Current Contents/Arts and Humanities, EBSCO databases, FRANCIS, International Bibliography of Periodical Literature, Mathematical Reviews, MLA International Bibliography, Scopus, Summon by Serial Solutions, and The Philosopher's Index.\n\n"}
{"id": "3662221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3662221", "title": "Photo-book", "text": "Photo-book\n\nA photo book or photobook is a book in which photographs make a significant contribution to the overall content. A photo book is related to and also often used as a coffee table book.\n\nEarly photo-books are characterised by their use of photographic printing as part of their reprographic technology. Photographic prints were tipped-in rather than printed directly onto the same paper stock used for letterpress printed text. Many early titles were printed in very small editions and were released as partworks to a network of well-informed and privileged readers. Few original examples of these books survive today, due to their vulnerability to light and damage caused by frequent handling.\n\nWhat is arguably the first photo book, \"\" (1843–1853) was created by Anna Atkins. The book was released as a partwork to assist the scientific community in the identification of marine specimens. The non-silver cyanotype printing process worked by pressing actual specimens in contact with light-sensitive paper; hence the word \"impression\" in the book's title.\n\n\"The Pencil of Nature\" (1844–46) was produced by William Henry Fox Talbot, who had invented the Calotype photographic process in 1839. Although significant as the first negative/positive photography process, the Calotype was also envisioned as a commercial prospect for the reproduction of images in books through mass publication. Anticipating commercial success, Fox Talbot established purpose-made printing premises in Reading to carry out the reproduction of his book. \"The Pencil of Nature\" was released in six parts between 1844 and 1846, to an initially promising list of private subscribers whose numbers dwindled, causing the premature termination of his project.\n\nJulia Margaret Cameron created the first photo book to illustrate a literary work. The 1874 edition of Tennyson's \"Idylls of the King\" contained twelve Cameron images that had been specially created, but reproduced as wood engravings. Cameron sought her own publisher, creating a new version of \"Idylls of the King,\" containing her original photographs as albumen prints, which came out in December of the same year.\n\nPhotographers such as Shinzō Fukuhara were producing photography books in the 1920s. The postwar years brought low-priced photography books, such as the many volumes of Iwanami Shashin Bunko magazine. From the 1950s onward, most Japanese photographers of note have had photo books published.\n\nThe simplest Japanese translation of photo book is \"shashinshū\" (), and the \"shashinshū\" section of a typical Japanese bookstore displays books of photographs with various levels of documentary or artistic merit. They primarily portray currently popular celebrities in a variety of settings and outfits. Many are of cheesecake models (\"guradoru\"), or porn starlets (\"nūdoru\"); others are of singers, television personalities, professional sportswomen (often wrestlers) and so forth.\n\nOne of the best selling Japanese photobooks of all time, \"Santa Fe\" (1991), a fine art nude photo book modelled by Rie Miyazawa and photographed by Kishin Shinoyama, sold 1.5 million copies in the early 1990s.\n\nStoring digital images in traditional photo albums means printed copies are inserted in the pages of an album. Companies allow users to create personalized photo books. The resulting book is printed on digital color printers and case bound.\n\nProfessional printing and binding services offer easy creation of photo books with professional layouts and individual layout capabilities. Because of the integrated design and order workflow, hardcover bound books with customized pictures and text can be produced very cost-effectively.\n\nCurrently there are many photo book software companies who sell licensed solutions to photo labs and print houses so that their customers can create photo books (and other photo related paraphernalia) with ease. These software solutions are available for free download or online access or through apps.\n\nThe development of digital cameras and the Internet allowed an enormous production and exchange of pictures, taken from different corners of the\nglobe. There are many possibilities nowadays for users to upload and share pictures (examples are Google and Facebook). However, many people and institutions also publish 'photo books' on the web, by providing the community with a huge web database freely available for everybody.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13507569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13507569", "title": "Prague Philharmonia", "text": "Prague Philharmonia\n\nThe Prague Philharmonia (\"Pražská komorní filharmonie\", abbreviation: PKF; literal translation, \"Prague Chamber Philharmonia\") is an orchestra based in Prague, the Czech Republic. The orchestra gives concerts in several venues in Prague, including the Dvořák Hall of the Rudolfinum, the Church of St. Simon and Juda, the Švanda Theatre (Smíchov) and the Salon Philharmonia. The orchestra receives government and civic sponsorship from the Czech Ministry of Culture, the City of Prague and the Prague 1 Municipal Authority. The orchestra contains 52 musicians, as of the 2015-2016 season.\n\nJiří Bělohlávek founded the orchestra in 1993, after his resignation as chief conductor of the Czech Philharmonic the previous year. The Czech Ministry of Defence had offered funding for training 40 young musicians to act as their own music ensemble, to replace the Prague Symphony Orchestra in that capacity. Bělohlávek decided to form a new chamber orchestra instead with the funds, and had auditioned musicians for the orchestra. However, the ministry withdrew its funding the next year. Bělohlávek subsequently secured private funding for the orchestra, which made its public debut in 1994. Bělohlávek served as the orchestra's first music director and chief conductor, from 1994 to 2005. He led the orchestra in its debut at The Proms in London in July 2004. Bělohlávek subsequently held the title of conductor laureate of the orchestra from 2005 until his death in 2017.\n\nThe Swiss conductor Kaspar Zehnder became the orchestra's second chief conductor in 2005, and Jakub Hrůša simultaneously became principal guest conductor. Zehnder stepped down from the chief conductorshp in June 2008 at the expiration of his contract. In March 2008, the orchestra announced the appointment of Hrůša as their third chief conductor, effective in September 2008. Hrůša held the post through the 2014-2015 season. In October 2014, the orchestra announced the appointment of Emmanuel Villaume as its fourth chief conductor, effective with the 2015-2016 season, with an initial contract of 3 years.\n\nThe orchestra has made recordings for a number of labels, including Supraphon, Deutsche Grammophon, Warner Classics, EMI, Harmonia Mundi, and Pentatone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23861185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23861185", "title": "Raja Ravi Varma College of Fine Arts", "text": "Raja Ravi Varma College of Fine Arts\n\nRaja Ravi Varma College of Fine Arts is located in Mavelikkara, Kerala, India. The college was established by Rama Varma son of Raja Ravi Varma in 1915. The first principal of this college was Artist P.J.Cherian. The college offers both undergraduate degree and diploma courses in fine arts, including in sculpture, painting and applied arts. This government institution is affiliated with the University of Kerala. The current principal is Tensing Joseph.\n\nMaster of Visual Arts in Art History and Master of Visual Arts in Painting offered at Raja Ravi Varma Centre of Excellence for Visual Arts, Mavelikkara.\nK.C. Chitrabhanu, former lecturer at the College of Fine Arts here, has taken over as the honorary director of the Raja Ravi Varma Centre of Excellence for Visual Art, Mavelikara, under Kerala University. He had also been a member of the academic bodies of various universities and the All-India Council for Technical Education. — Special Correspondent\n\n"}
{"id": "55191199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55191199", "title": "Rock art in Iran", "text": "Rock art in Iran\n\nRock art in Iran includes archaeological petroglyphs, or carving in rock; pictographs, or painting on rock; and rock reliefs. Large numbers of prehistoric rock art, more than 50,000, have been discovered in Iran. \n\nDating back to 40,800 years before present in Iran, rock art is the oldest surviving artwork. Prehistoric rock art provides insights into past eras and cultures. Archaeologists classify the tools for carving petroglyphs by their historical era. Incising tools include flint, metal, or thigh bones of hunted prey. \n\nThe largest rock art panel in Iran, located near Malayer in Hamadan Province spans 12 meters and features more than 100 petroglyphs.\n\nThe earliest known petroglyphs are in ] dating back to 40,800 years ago. The earliest known pictographs in Iran are in Yafteh cave in Lorestan Province and date back 40,000 years.\n\nAncient Iranian pottery and bronze sculpture continue designs found in the rock art. This continuity suggests the impressiveness of petroglyphs of the facades of caves and rocks reflected to ancient Iranian artisans.This continuity can be traced from eighth millennium BCE by the potteries in Ganj Darreh near Harseen in Kermanshah state, to the third and first millennium BCE, considering the bronze period in Lorestan.\n\nIran provides exclusive demonstrations of script formation from pictogram, ideogram, linear (2300 BCE) or proto-Elamite, geometric old Elamite script, Pahlavi script, Arabic script (906 years ago), Kufi script, and Farsi script back to at least 250 years ago. \n\nThe most recent chronology of petroglyphs in Iran was done employing the General Antiparticle Spectrometer in 2008 that helped gather data from random samples; though, this is a demanding job that needs a systematic and comprehensive supported effort.\n\nPictographs that contain pictures drawn by pigments like smut, crystallized blood, ochre, that were employed by binders like animal fats, blood, seed oil and organic compounds, or a mixture of all materials mentioned above. Lorestan has the most and oldest pictographs in Iran. Yafteh cave in Lorestan has pictographs dating back to 40,000 years ago.Compared to petroglyphs, pictographs in Iran are scarce and rare. \n\nThe ibex, a type of goat with prominent, curved horns, is the most common image depicted in rock art. Human figures are portrayed dressed and undressed, performing rituals, roping cattle, walking on foot,riding horses, and hunting.\n\nSites that contain pictographs are listed as follows.\n\n\nPetroglyphs include most discovered items in Iran, extended on states as follows:\n\n\nThe following table offers the first classification of petroglyphs according to redundancy and frequency.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36910868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36910868", "title": "Roux Scholarship", "text": "Roux Scholarship\n\nThe Roux Scholarship is a cooking competition for up and coming chefs in the UK. Set up by the brothers Michel and Albert Roux, and now run by their sons Alain Roux and Michel Roux Jr. It was first run in 1984 with Andrew Fairlie being named the first winner. It has since been run on a yearly basis, with winners going on to win a three-month placement in a Michelin starred restaurants including the French Laundry and Maison Pic.\n\nMichel Roux credits Nick Rowe with originating the idea for the Roux Scholarship. Rowe was dining at Roux's Waterside Inn when he suggested to Roux that the Roux brothers could front a scholarship for up and coming chefs and that Rowe's credit card company would be willing to back it financially. Michel spoke to his brother Albert the following day, who said that Michel could lead on it. Michel thought it would be a good way for young chefs to gain experience in French restaurants, which were not open to employing British chefs at the time. The competition was formerly known as the Roux Diners Club Scholarship.\n\nEach entrant must enter a paper application, which are then reviewed and broken down into regional competitions. Each regional winner goes through to the final, where there is one Scholar named. Entrants are limited to chefs who are working in full-time employment. Chefs are not limited to applying on one occasion; both Simon Hulstone and Mark Birchall competed on four occasions before winning. The winner of the competition is allowed to choose a three Michelin starred restaurant to cook in for three months. \n\nThe judges for the 2018 competition were Michel Jr., and Alain Roux, alongside Brian Turner, James Martin and Roux Scholars Andrew Fairlie, Sat Bains, André Garrett, Simon Hulstone, as well as chefs Clare Smyth, Angela Hartnett and Rachel Humphrey. The Honorary President of Judges for the 2018 competition was Michel Guérard. \n\nThe winner of the 2018 competition was Martin Carabott, who had previously competed in the national final twice and works for Ollie Dabbous at Hide in London. \n"}
{"id": "3442844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3442844", "title": "Samantha Inoue-Harte", "text": "Samantha Inoue-Harte\n\nSamantha Inoue Harte (born April 21, 1979) is a voice actress and founder of an animation studio called Saiko Studios. She is perhaps most recognized for her role as the Chocobo in \"\", the anime series, and as Kohran Li in \"Sakura Wars\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26811471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26811471", "title": "Sarah Frost", "text": "Sarah Frost\n\nSarah Frost is an English television director animation director, composer, and storyboard artist in America.\n\nFrost is most known for directing \"The Fairly OddParents\" and episodes of the animated series \"Family Guy\". She has also worked in animation on \"The Simpsons\" and \"Rocko's Modern Life\".\n\nFrost joined \"Family Guy\" in 2002. She directed multiple episodes, including:\n\"Don't Make Me Over\"\n\"Model Misbehavior\"\n\"The Fat Guy Strangler\"\n\"Petergeist\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20868742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20868742", "title": "Sarah Gavron", "text": "Sarah Gavron\n\nSarah Gavron (born 20 April 1970) is a British film director. She has directed four short films, and three feature films. Her first film is, This Little Life (2003); Brick Lane (2007) is her second most recognized film; Village at the End of the World (2012); and her latest film, Suffragette (2015) that is based in London of 1912 which tells the story of the Suffragette movement based on realistic, historical events.\n\nSarah Gavron is also both a wife and a mother, and \"got into filmmaking to make a difference.\" She has dedicated her career to accurately telling the stories of women. In addition, the scarcity of women filmmakers in the U.K is what inspires Gavron with her own filmmaking, and her responsibility as a female director.\n\nGavron was educated at Camden School for Girls. She graduated from the University of York with a BA in English in 1992 and an MA in film studies from Edinburgh College of Art when it was associated with Heriot-Watt University. While at Edinburgh College of Art, Sarah Gavron was granted a position in a directing class that was taught by Stephen Frears. Frears is one of her greatest influences in filmmaking and directing, as well as Mike Leigh and Terrence Davies. She then worked for the BBC for three years. She went on to study feature film directing at the National Film and Television School in London. The actor Rafi Gavron is the son of her half-brother, Simon Gavron.\n\nGavron is married to cinematographer David Katznelson, and together, they have two children.\n\nGavron began her film career making documentaries, a field that seemed \"more accessible at that point,\" but kept returning to narrative filmmaking because of her desire to tell stories.\n\nHer first film, This Little Life (2003), is classified as a television drama with the plot surrounding a couple and their premature born child; Brick Lane (2007) is her second most recognized feature film, that is an adaptation of Monica Ali's novel \"Brick Lane,\" which encapsulates the life of an Indian, female immigrant living in London, U.K; Village at the End of the World (2012) which is a documentary that Sarah Gavron directed in a peninsula in Greenland; and her latest film Suffragette (2015) that is based in London of 1912 which tells the story of the Suffragette movement, specifically, the early twentieth century campaign of women's suffrage that centers the lives of three women that take on fictitious names in the film, however represent non-fictional historical figures.\n\nIn Brick Lane (2007) Gavron centers the female protagonist in \"one of the most ethically diverse neighborhoods in the United Kingdom.\" \n\nSarah Gavron points out that Suffragette (2015) is \"this first major feature film to focus on the fight for women's suffrage, and it is a personal film and the highest-profile film for Gavron.\" The film conveys important themes regarding legal and social positions of women, wives and mothers in 1912. Gavron believes that the women's suffrage movement must be regarded as a \"multi stranded, and complex story that is still unfolding.\" Gavron intended Suffragette to be telling of important moments in the past, but also relevant in present day. Gavron believes that her specific focus on ordinary, every day women would make her film, and ultimately her message as a feminist, relevant across time. \n\nThe film Suffragette (2015) was acquired by Focus Features (originally Relativity) in March 2015. The film premiered at the 2015 Telluride Film Festival.\n\n\nSarah Gavron was nominated for the BAFTA Award and BIFA Award for best director in 2007 for her film \"Brick Lane\". The film won a Silver Hitchcock and best screenplay at the Dinard Festival of British Cinema. She received the Tangerine Entertainment Juice Award from the Hamptons International Film Festival for directing the movie \"Suffragette\", as well as the Mill Valley Film Festival's Audience Award (Mind the Gap), also for directing that film.\n"}
{"id": "47622363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47622363", "title": "Shimmer and Shine", "text": "Shimmer and Shine\n\nShimmer and Shine is an American animated television series, created by Farnaz Esnaashari-Charmatz. It airs on Nickjr in the United States and on Treehouse in Canada. The series is based on an unreleased pilot from 2013, and premiered on Nickelodeon on August 24, 2015. It was renewed for a fourth season of 20 episodes on May 24, 2017.\n\nThe first season is set in the human world and focuses on a young girl named Leah Thompson who is friends with a pair of twin genie sisters named Shimmer and Shine. Each day, the genies grant Leah three wishes, but they often make errors. Each episode features Leah working together with the genies to resolve the problems they unintentionally cause, all while keeping Shimmer and Shine a secret from her next door neighbor and best friend Zac.\n\nIn the second season, the characters are transported to Zahramay Falls, a magical land where Shimmer and Shine live. Leah reveals her genies' existence to Zac, who is given a genie of his own, named Kaz. Shimmer and Shine continue to grant Leah wishes in Zahramay Falls and befriend the sovereign of the land, Princess Samira. The season includes Samira's pet peacock, Roya, Zeta, a villainous sorceress, and Zeta's dragon, Nazboo.\n\n\nAll animals in the series are voiced by Dee Bradley Baker.\n\n\"Shimmer and Shine\" is based on an unreleased pilot that took six months to develop in 2013, with a reported completion date of September 2013. The pilot was created by Farnaz Esnaashari-Charmatz, who previously worked on \"Dora the Explorer\", with Sindy Boveda Spackman as the writer and Andy Bialk as the art director. It was ordered to series by Nickelodeon in March 2014, with the first season to consist of 20 episodes. The series premiered on August 24, 2015.\n\nOn February 11, 2016, it was announced that \"Shimmer and Shine\" was renewed for a 20-episode second season that uses CGI animation, with the second season premiering in the United States on June 15, 2016. On June 21, 2016, \"Shimmer and Shine\" was renewed for a third season of an additional 20 episodes.\n\nOn May 24, 2017, \"Shimmer and Shine\" was renewed for a fourth season consisting of 20 episodes.\n\n\"Shimmer and Shine\" premiered on Nick Jr. UK on November 9, 2015, where it was dubbed with British voice actors, replacing the original American soundtrack (though Zeta and the animals' voices remained unchanged).\n\nNickelodeon and Random House Children's Books released books based on the show starting in January 2016.\n\nNickelodeon and Paramount Home Entertainment released a DVD based on the show on February 2, 2016. Another DVD, entitled \"Welcome to Zahramay Falls,\" was released on August 16, 2016. A third DVD, \"Friendship Divine\", was released on February 7, 2017. A fourth DVD, \"Magical Pets of Zahramay Falls\", was scheduled to be released on August 22, 2017. A fifth DVD, \"Beyond the Rainbow Falls\", was released on February 6, 2018.\n\nA Nick Jr. compilation DVD, entitled \"Nickelodeon Favorites: Whiskers & Paws\", was released on January 26, 2016 and consists the episode \"Abraca-Genie\", along with select episodes of \"PAW Patrol\", \"\", \"Fresh Beat Band of Spies\", \"Bubble Guppies\", and \"Blue's Clues\".\n\nNickelodeon and Fisher-Price released a toy line based on the show. Mega Bloks playlets based on the show have been released.\n\n"}
{"id": "31471623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31471623", "title": "Society for Natural Language Technology Research", "text": "Society for Natural Language Technology Research\n\nThe Society for Natural Language Technology Research (abbr. as SNLTR) is an organization that promotes research in Corpus Linguistics, Computational Linguistics and Natural Language Processing in Bengali language. Among its primary goals are creation and archiving of a fully Unicode-compatible Bengali literary corpus to be hosted and published online, as well as the creation of fonts that will help people type Bengali text with ease.\n\nEnglish is still the primary medium of interaction with computers. Consequently, a large section of the population in India is not able to reap the benefits of the technology. Though the issue of localization of interface has been discussed in different forum, the goal is yet to be achieved.\n\nIn spite of the fact that desktop publishing has come of age for Bengali and other Indian languages and there are several software available for Bengali, the problem persists due to the absence of i) standardization of Bengali encoding, ii) encoding compliant font design, iii) availability of compliant keyboard layouts etc. The lack of adherence to standard does not allow the computing activities in Indian languages to be inter-operable across computing platforms.\n\nIn order to make the computing activities Bengali compatible, it is essential to establish a proper standard. Though a number of organizations have taken up language processing activities, the necessity of establishing proper coherence among them is very much felt, in order to deliver useful products.\n\nLanguage Technology research has to focus on two components, written text as well as spoken language .Besides text processing, speech generation and recognition are two very important areas in which research and development have to be focused. This development will not only result in more natural human-computer interfaces, but will also empower the physically challenged like those with speech impairment and visual impairment, to benefit from computer technology.\n\nThe Society for Natural Language Technology Research has been formed to address the above-mentioned requirements. The society has been seeded by the Government of West Bengal (Dept. of Information Technology) with initial funding and support. Operationally, the society aims to carry out its activities in a multipolar manner, involving other academic and research institutes as well as industries.\n\nData Representation and Encoding Standard: Society for Natural Language Technology Research has decided to accept UNICODE 5.0 and upwards as the standard for data representation and encoding for Bengali.\n\n\nThe immediate goals of the society are:\n\n Administrator\n\n\nPatrons and Advisers:\n\n\nPresident:\n\n\nVice President:\n\n\nDirector (Hon):\n\n\nSecretary cum Treasurer:\n\n\nMembers:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "685947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=685947", "title": "Stanley Cavell", "text": "Stanley Cavell\n\nStanley Louis Cavell (; September 1, 1926 – June 19, 2018) was an American philosopher. He was the Walter M. Cabot Professor of Aesthetics and the General Theory of Value, Emeritus, at Harvard University. He worked in the fields of ethics, aesthetics, and ordinary language philosophy. As an interpreter, he produced influential works on Wittgenstein, Austin, Emerson, Thoreau, and Heidegger. His work is characterized by its conversational tone and frequent literary references.\n\nCavell was born to a Jewish family in Atlanta, Georgia. His mother, a locally renowned pianist, trained him in music from his earliest days. During the Depression, Cavell’s parents moved several times between Atlanta and Sacramento, California. As an adolescent, Cavell played lead alto saxophone as the youngest member of a black jazz band in Sacramento. He entered the University of California, Berkeley, where he majored in music, studying with, among others, Bob Thompson (musician), Roger Sessions and Ernest Bloch. After graduation, he studied composition at the Juilliard School of Music in New York City, only to discover that music was not his calling.\n\nHe entered graduate school at UCLA, studying philosophy, and then transferred to Harvard University. As a student there he came under the influence of J. L. Austin, whose teaching and methods \"knocked him off ... [his] horse.\" In 1954 he was awarded a Junior Fellowship at the Harvard Society of Fellows. Before completing his Ph.D., he became an Assistant Professor of Philosophy at the University of California, Berkeley, in 1956. Cavell's daughter by his first wife (Marcia Cavell), Rachel Lee Cavell, was born in 1957. From 1962–1963 Cavell was a Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, where he befriended the British philosopher Bernard Williams. Cavell’s marriage to Marcia ended in divorce in 1961. In 1963 he returned to the Harvard Philosophy Department, where he became the Walter M. Cabot Professor of Aesthetics and the General Theory of Value.\n\nIn the summer of 1964, Cavell joined a group of graduate students, who taught at Tougaloo College, a historically black college in Mississippi, as part of what became known as the Freedom Summer. He and Cathleen (Cohen) Cavell were married in 1967. In April 1969, during the student protests (chiefly arising from the Vietnam War), Cavell, helped by his colleague John Rawls, worked with a group of African-American students to draft language for a vote by the faculty that established the Department of African and African-American Studies at Harvard.\n\nIn 1976, Cavell's first son Benjamin was born. In 1979, along with the documentary filmmaker Robert Gardner, Cavell helped found the Harvard Film Archive, to preserve and present the history of film. Cavell received a MacArthur Fellowship in 1992. From 1996-1997 Cavell was President of the American Philosophical Association (Eastern Division). In 1984, his second son David was born. He remained on the Harvard faculty until his retirement in 1997. After retiring, he taught courses at Yale University and the University of Chicago. He also held the Spinoza Chair of Philosophy at the University of Amsterdam in 1998.\n\nCavell died in Boston, Massachusetts of heart failure on June 19, 2018 at the age of 91. He was buried at Mount Auburn Cemetery.\n\nAlthough trained in the Anglo-American analytic tradition, Cavell frequently interacted with the continental tradition. He includes film and literary study in philosophical inquiry. Cavell writes extensively on Ludwig Wittgenstein, J. L. Austin, and Martin Heidegger, as well as on the American transcendentalists Henry Thoreau and Ralph Waldo Emerson. He interprets Wittgenstein in a fashion known as the New Wittgenstein. Cavell's writing incorporates autobiographical elements concerning how his movement between and within the ideas of these thinkers influenced and influences his own thinking that impacted spheres in the arts and humanities beyond the technical study of philosophy.\n\nA scholarly journal, the \"Conversations: The Journal of Cavellian Studies\", engages with his philosophical work. It is edited by Sérgio Dias Branco and Amir Khan and published by the University of Ottawa.\n\nCavell established his distinct philosophical identity with \"Must We Mean What We Say?\" (1969), which addresses topics such as language use, metaphor, skepticism, tragedy, and literary interpretation, from the point of view of ordinary language philosophy, of which he is a practitioner and ardent defender. One of the essays discusses Søren Kierkegaard's work on revelation and authority, \"The Book on Adler\", in an effort to help re-introduce the book to modern philosophical readers. In \"The World Viewed\" (1971) Cavell looks at photography and film. He also covers modernism in art and the nature of media, where he mentions the influence of art critic Michael Fried's writing on his work.\n\nCavell is perhaps best known for his book, \"The Claim of Reason: Wittgenstein, Skepticism, Morality, and Tragedy\" (1979), which forms the centerpiece of his work, and which has its origins in his doctoral dissertation. In \"Pursuits of Happiness\" (1981), Cavell describes his experience of seven prominent Hollywood comedies: \"The Lady Eve\", \"It Happened One Night\", \"Bringing Up Baby\", \"The Philadelphia Story\", \"His Girl Friday\", \"Adam’s Rib\", and \"The Awful Truth\". Cavell argues that these films, from the years 1934–1949, form part of what he calls the genre of \"The Comedy of Remarriage,\" and he finds in them great philosophical, moral, and indeed political significance. Specifically, Cavell argues that these Hollywood comedies show that \"the achievement of happiness requires not the [...] satisfaction of our needs [...] but the examination and transformation of those needs.\" According to Cavell, the emphasis that these movies place on \"remarriage\" draws attention to the fact that, within a relationship, happiness requires \"growing up\" together with one's partner.\n\nIn \"Cities of Words\" (2004) Cavell traces the history of moral perfectionism, a mode of moral thinking spanning the history of Western philosophy and literature. Having used Emerson to outline the concept, this book suggests ways we might want to understand philosophy, literature, and film as preoccupied with features of perfectionism. In \"Philosophy the Day After Tomorrow\" (2005), a collection of essays, Cavell makes the case that J. L. Austin's concept of performative utterance requires the supplementary concept of \"passionate utterance\": \"A performative utterance is an offer of participation in the order of law. And perhaps we can say: A passionate utterance is an invitation to improvisation in the disorders of desire.\" The book also contains extended discussions of Friedrich Nietzsche, Jane Austen, George Eliot, Henry James, and Fred Astaire, as well as familiar Cavellian subjects such as Shakespeare, Emerson, Thoreau, Wittgenstein, and Heidegger. Cavell's final book, \"Little Did I Know: Excerpts from Memory\" (2010), is an autobiography written in the form of a diary. In a series of consecutive, dated entries, Cavell inquires about the origins of his philosophy by telling the story of his life.\n\n\n\n\n\nBooks\n\nArticles\n\n"}
{"id": "56701509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56701509", "title": "Stone Chronicle Museum", "text": "Stone Chronicle Museum\n\nStone Chronicle Museum is a museum dedicated to the history of stone plastics in Azerbaijan. Many types of stone plastic are exhibited in the museum. The Stone Chronicle Museum, located on the National Flag Square, was created by the Heydar Aliyev Foundation. The most archaic features of moral life in Azerbaijan were found in plastic stone traditions.\n\nThe museum is located in the building of the electric station constructed in 1921 and used for the energy supply of oil wells. In later period, the building was completely restored. After restoration works, it operates as Stone Chronicle Museum.\n\nThe opening of the museum took place on June 8, 2015. President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Ilham Aliyev, President of the Heydar Aliyev Foundation, Mehriban Aliyeva and Vice President of the Foundation, Leyla Aliyeva got acquainted with the museum.\n\nBeside numerous examples of stone plastic discovered in different places of Azerbaijan, a large part of ancient exhibits a large part of ancient exhibits are made up of various household items with functional meaning and no decorations.\n\nThe exposition of the \"Stone Chronicle\" exposition covers many types of stone plastic. Stone Chronicle Museum includes exhibits dedicated to the history of stone plastics in Azerbaijan brought from \"Gobustan\" and \"Gala\" preserves, as well as sculptor Huseyn Hagverdiyev's works.\n\nThe main part of the exposition is the tombstones belonging to the Middle Ages that are found in the Shirvan-Absheron zone. Painted and chest-shaped graves and gravestones give original information about various socio-political, social, cultural and ideological events of the Middle Ages.\n"}
{"id": "42253331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42253331", "title": "Teatro Bellini, Naples", "text": "Teatro Bellini, Naples\n\nThe Teatro Bellini (Bellini Theatre) is a private theatre and opera stage located in the centre of Naples on the Via Vincenzo Bellini at the corner of Via Conte di Ruo. It is across the street from the Academy of Fine Arts of Naples.\n\nThe house is named after the Sicilian-born composer, Vincenzo Bellini, who is best known for his operas and who spent his some time in the 1820s studying music in the city. In addition, there in an opera house name after him—the Teatro Massimo Bellini—in Catania, Sicily, his birthplace.\n\nIn 1864, Baron Nicola Lacapra Sabelli commissioned the theatre's creation from the architect Carlo Sorgente for the Via Vincenzo Bellini. This theatre, located near Piazza Dante Alighieri, burned down in 1869, and a new one was inaugurated a few hundred feet from the original locale. \n\nOn 6 February 1877 it presented Bellini's opera, \"I puritani\". The theatre has 6 tiers of box seats surrounding an oval floor. The interior decorations were created by Giovanni Ponticelli, Pasquale Di Criscito, and Vincenzo Paliotti, and the oil portrait of the opera composer was by Vincenzo Migliaro.\n\nFor nearly a century, the theatre presented operas and operettas, but by the 1960s it had become dilapidated, used only as a cheap movie theatre, and it was considered for demolition. In 1962 the Bellini hosted its final operatic spectacle with \"Masaniello\" before being acquired in 1986 by a group led by local artist and producer, Tato Russo. They restored the house for operatic and theatrical productions which are now frequently presented.\n"}
{"id": "3146221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3146221", "title": "The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp", "text": "The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp\n\nThe Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp is a 1632 oil painting on canvas by Rembrandt housed in the Mauritshuis museum in The Hague, the Netherlands. The painting is regarded as one of Rembrandt's early masterpieces.\n\nIn the work, Dr. Nicolaes Tulp is pictured explaining the musculature of the arm to medical professionals. Some of the spectators are various doctors who paid commissions to be included in the painting. The painting is signed in the top-left hand corner \"Rembrandt. f[ecit] 1632\". This may be the first instance of Rembrandt signing a painting with his forename (in its original form) as opposed to the monogramme \"RHL\" (Rembrandt Harmenszoon of Leiden), and is thus a sign of his growing artistic confidence.\n\nThe event can be dated to 31 January 1632: the Amsterdam Guild of Surgeons, of which Tulp was official City Anatomist, permitted only one public dissection a year, and the body would have to be that of an executed criminal.\n\nAnatomy lessons were a social event in the 17th century, taking place in lecture rooms that were actual theatres, with students, colleagues and the general public being permitted to attend on payment of an entrance fee. The spectators are appropriately dressed for this social occasion. It is thought that the uppermost (not holding the paper) and farthest left figures were added to the picture later.\n\nEvery five to ten years, the Surgeon's Guild would commission a portrait by a leading portraitist of the period; Rembrandt was commissioned for this task when he was 26 years old, and newly arrived in Amsterdam. It was his first major commission in Amsterdam. Each of the men included in the portrait would have paid a certain amount of money to be included in the work, and the more central figures (in this case, Dr. Tulp) probably paid more, even twice as much. Rembrandt's anatomical portrait radically altered the conventions of the genre, by including a full length corpse in the center of the image (using Christ-like iconography) and creating not just a portrait but a dramatic Mise-en-scène. Rembrandt's image is a fiction; in a typical anatomy lesson, the surgeon would begin by opening the chest cavity and thorax because the internal organs there decay most rapidly.\n\nOne person is missing: the Preparator, whose task was to prepare the body for the lesson. In the 17th century an important scientist such as Dr. Tulp would not be involved in menial and bloody work like dissection, and such tasks would be left to others. It is for this reason that the picture shows no cutting instruments. Instead we see in the lower right corner an enormous open textbook on anatomy, possibly the 1543 \"De humani corporis fabrica\" (\"Fabric of the Human Body\") by Andreas Vesalius.\n\nThe corpse is that of the criminal Aris Kindt (alias of Adriaan Adriaanszoon), who was convicted for armed robbery and sentenced to death by hanging. He was executed earlier on the same day of the scene. The face of the corpse is partially shaded, a suggestion of \"umbra mortis\" (shadow of death), a technique that Rembrandt was to use frequently.\nThe French art historian Jean-Marie Clarke points out that the navel of the corpse has the shape of a capital R and connects this observation to the fact that Rembrandt worked intensively on his signatures in 1632, using three types consecutively before settling on the final, first name form in 1633.\n\nKindt was discussed in the 1999 novel \"The Rings of Saturn\" by W. G. Sebald, and plays a significant role in Laird Hunt's 2006 novel \"The Exquisite\". In her 2014 novel, \"The Anatomy Lesson\" author and journalist Nina Siegal tells the life story of Aris Kindt, based on documents about his criminal history that she discovered in the Amsterdam city archives.\n\nMedical specialists have commented on the accuracy of muscles and tendons painted by the 26-year-old Rembrandt. It is not known where he obtained such knowledge; it is possible that he copied the details from an anatomical textbook. However, in 2006 Dutch researchers recreated the scene with a male cadaver, revealing several discrepancies of the exposed left forearm compared to that of a real corpse. The surgically astute will notice that the origin of the exposed forearm muscles would seem to indicate that the flexor compartment originates at the lateral epicondyle, when it is, in fact, the medial epicondyle. It is the common extensor origin that originates at the lateral epicondyle.\n\nIn a 2007 study, the American artist and anatomist David J. Jackowe and his colleagues demonstrated that the mysterious white cord that courses along the ulnar aspect of the cadaver's carpus and little finger, long thought to be either an ulnar nerve variant or artistic error, is most likely the tendon of an anomalous forearm muscle, the accessory abductor digiti minimi.\n\n\"The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Deijman\", painted by Rembrandt in 1656, was intended to be displayed in the Anatomical Hall in Amsterdam alongside \"The anatomy lesson of Tulp\".\nDeijman was Tulp's immediate successor in the post of \"praelector chirugic et anatomie\". The painting was damaged by fire in 1723, and only a central fragment survives.\n\nAround 1856 Édouard Manet visited The Hague and made a small oil on panel copy of \"The Anatomy Lesson\". Broadly painted in a limited palette, Manet gave the painting to his physician, Dr. Siredey.\n\nA less detailed copy of \"The Anatomy Lesson of Dr Nicolaes Tulp\" by an unknown artist hangs in Edinburgh as part of The University of Edinburgh Fine Art Collection.\n\n\"The Gross Clinic\" of 1875 and \"The Agnew Clinic\" of 1889 are paintings by the American artist Thomas Eakins which treat a similar subject, operations on live patients in the presence of medical students.\n\nIn 2010, Yiull Damaso created a parody of the painting depicting prominent South Africans. Nelson Mandela was the cadaver, Nkosi Johnson was the instructor, and the students were Desmond Tutu, F. W. de Klerk, Thabo Mbeki, Jacob Zuma, Cyril Ramaphosa, Trevor Manuel, and Helen Zille. The African National Congress condemned the work as disrespectful to Mandela, racist, and culturally insensitive to African taboos on depiction of living people as dead.\n\nThe 2012 painting \"The Anatomy Lesson of Dr Freeman\" by Susan Dorothea White references the Rembrandt composition but renders each of the onlookers as an anatomical prosection and skeleton in a contemporary university laboratory; the enormous book is replaced by a computer screen and the background chart by a projection screen; the tendon orientation in the cadaver's left forearm is corrected.\n\nIn \"Asterix and the Soothsayer\" (1972), Uderzo and Goscinny referenced the painting at the bottom of page 10, where the characters observe the disembowelment of a fish.\n\nThe 2011 video game \"\" references the painting in both in-game portraits that can be found on the wall and in a certain cinematic trailer, featuring the main protagonist Adam Jensen as the cadaver as Dr. Nicolaes and his students study his charred and ruined arms, which in the actual story become amputated and replaced with mechanical limbs.\n\nThe painting is discussed by the narrator (a young man) and his mother during a visit to the Met in \"The Goldfinch\", a 2013 novel by Donna Tartt.\n\nIn the 2012 German film \"Barbara\", there is a scene in which a doctor offers his interpretation of the painting to a colleague (the protagonist) when she points out the inaccuracy of Aris Kindt's left hand.\n\n2014's \"The Anatomy Lesson\" by Nina Siegal is a fictionalized account of the painting's creation and backstory, based on six years of historical research and archival documents about Aris Kindt's life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48462516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48462516", "title": "The Grape Harvest", "text": "The Grape Harvest\n\nThe Grape Harvest or Autumn () is a 1786 oil on canvas painting by Francisco Goya which depicts a man in autumn-colored clothes with his wife and son. A peasant is presenting them with a sample of the year’s grape harvest. The piece has been held by the Museo del Prado in Madrid since 1870.\n\n"}
{"id": "52258561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52258561", "title": "The Journal of John Woolman", "text": "The Journal of John Woolman\n\nThe Journal of John Woolman is an autobiography by John Woolman which was published posthumously in 1774 by Joseph Crukshank, a Philadelphia Quaker printer. Woolman's journal is one of the longest continually published books in North America since it has never been out of print.\n\nThe Journal adds to his other published works and gives greater evidence to his character as he discusses ideas of anti-slavery and anti-materialism as well as discussing power's ability to corrupt. The work also discusses God's divine power and goodness for all on the earth. \n\nThe work has remained in print due to its focus on making life simple and the hopeful message of God's divine goodness. Woolman is one of the first early American writers besides John Smith who is a not a Puritan. Puritans were the most prevalent writers in Early America, and it was during the time of this publication that writing began to move away from being by only Puritan authors. Woolman's writing is at the forefront of this transition.\n\nWoolman's Journal focuses much on his decision to support anti-slavery. The struggle is first seen when he discusses how he was required to write a bill of sale for a Quaker friend who had sold a slave. He completed the bill of sale because it was part of his job and the man that sold the slave was also a Quaker however, after this even Woolman took a more official stance in regard to his opinion, even explaining during the actual event that he \"believed slavekeeping to be a practice inconsistent with the Christian religion.\" His journal shows his inner turmoil as he grapples with understanding how he truly feels about the selling and buying of slaves that eventually led to publishing works such as his \"Some Considerations on the Keeping of Negroes.\" \n\nSlavery is prominent in Woolman's journal, and it returns again shortly after the scene with the bill of sale as he discusses further opinions he has on the subject. He takes time to discuss those who he visited that did not take care of their slaves and how that made him feel uncomfortable while visiting. In contrast, Woolman discusses individuals who did take care of their slaves and how that made him feel more at ease. Shortly after that comparison, Woolman moves beyond the treatment of slaves and reflects on the idea that even if slaves were well cared for, they were still taken from their homes. His continual discourse on slavery in his journal makes Woolman one of the first abolitionists.\n\nWoolman addresses one of the issues of slavery to be men having too much power: \"men having power too often misapplied it...we made slaves of the Negroes and the Turks made slaves of the Christians.\" This is an idea already a large part of American heritage as many who traveled to America were seeking freedom of some kind. Woolman's focus on how power corrupts will continue to be impactful as Americans push further away from England (which is what had been occurring when Joseph Crukshank published this journal). \n\nWoolman spends time in his journal writing about his relationship with God and his perspective on God. He discusses that as early as the age of 7 he \"began to be acquainted with the operations of divine love.\" His perspective on God and God's love is important, as it offers clear contrasts from the opinions that Puritans had. Puritans believed in a less tolerable God, and as Jonathan Edwards in \"Sinners in the Hands of An Angry God\" suggests, a God who does not care for those on Earth, nearly as much as Woolman suggests. Woolman's journal speaks of a God who gives revelation and creates a feeling of sweetness as well as strong feelings of mercy. \n\nThe opinion on God's love and his strong mercy is what makes Woolman and other Quakers more tolerant to others. Woolman writes: \"I found no narrowness respecting sects and opinions, but believed that sincere, upright-hearted people in every Society who truly loved God were accepted of him.\" This is a very different belief from those of other major religions in American at the time. The Puritans were very intolerant, even within their own ranks--intolerance is one of the causes of the Salem Witch Trials. Quakers' differing opinion on God is also what brings about a major dislike of Quakers by Puritans. They could not stand the opinions of Quakers and considered it a type of religious heresy. Woolman does not discuss this in his Journal, instead focusing on what he knows and believes. In fact, Woolman believes that tolerance and mercy towards others were given from God: \"he whose tender mercies are over all his works hath placed a principle in the human mind which incites to exercise goodness towards every living creature.\" \n\nThese kinds of connections involving tolerance and mercy towards other people are what makes Woolman's writings easier to connect with. He appears more real and sincere because of his tolerance towards others. Christians now connect with his opinions on mercy, and this is part of the reason he has remained in print since the first publication of his journal.\n\nWoolman did many things in his life, varying from merchant, to tailor, to Quaker preacher. Along this path he decided that his wealth and prosperity were hurting him and his relationship with God: \"the increase became my burden.\" He turned away from all his merchandise and placed his focus somewhere else, no longer even desiring it. \n\nThis aspect of Woolman's writing moves beyond Quaker ideals. It is something that contains aspects of Americanism, also portrayed in later authors like Henry Thoreau as well as Walt Whitman. He in some ways follows transcendentalism. \n\nWoolman seems to believe in the importance of anti-mercantilism, as following his decision to forgo his wealth he becomes much more visionary and believes to become closer to God. \n"}
{"id": "37426736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37426736", "title": "The Structure of Science", "text": "The Structure of Science\n\nThe Structure of Science: Problems in the Logic of Scientific Explanation is a 1961 book about the philosophy of science by the philosopher Ernest Nagel. The book is considered a classic discussion of its subject, though its approach has been seen as outdated.\n\nNagel discusses branches of science such as physics.\n\n\"The Structure of Science\" was first published by Harcourt, Brace & World in 1961. It was reprinted in 1979 by Hackett Publishing Company.\n\n\"The Structure of Science\" received a mixed review from the philosopher Raziel Abelson in \"Commentary\". The book was also reviewed by the philosopher A. J. Ayer in \"Scientific American\" and William Gilman in \"The Nation\".\n\nAbleson considered the book's publication an important event in American philosophy. He credited Nagel with consolidating the rival insights of logical positivism and pragmatism, demonstrating how four different kinds of explanation function in different types of inquiry, refuting the view that science does nothing more than describe \"sequences of phenomena\", and convincingly criticizing Berlin. However, he argued that Nagel's account of science was strained and that some of Nagel's views were unclear. He believed that Nagel was less successful in discussing sociology and history than he was in discussing the natural sciences. He also charged Nagel with vacillating between the \"mechanistic\" view of social knowledge and that of \"pragmatic pluralism\", arguing that each of these perspectives has merit, but only when adopted with full commitment.\n\n\"The Structure of Science\" was reviewed by G. B. Keene in \"Philosophy\" and the philosopher Paul Feyerabend in the \"British Journal for the Philosophy of Science\". The book was also discussed by Colin Klein in \"The Philosophical Quarterly\", Grażyna Musiał in the \"Journal of Economics & Management\", and the philosopher Kenneth F. Schaffner in \"The Journal of Philosophy\".\n\nKlein wrote that discussions of the role of reduction in scientific explanation published after the book moved away from Nagel's views, because of \"perceived shortcomings in Nagel’s theory of reduction.\" He argued that the trend away from Nagel's views has been a mistake. In his view, while \"Nagel’s account of reduction has a number of flaws\" Nagel's \"account of intertheoretic connection is largely correct.\" Musiał wrote that the book is \"a source of inspiring conclusions\" and is regarded as one of the \"fundamental works on the contemporary methodology of science.\" She added that Nagel's conception of scientific theories is \"considered classical and as such, worth of detailed analysis\" and that Nagel's \"position left numerous opened questions that were further developed\" by other authors, and concluded that Nagel's book is \"still a valuable reading for junior\nresearch workers in economics who wish to reinforce their knowledge.\" Schaffner noted that \"Nagel's theory is based on the reduction of classical thermodynamics to statistical mechanics\" and that criticisms of his theory \"are based on the application of the reductionist mode of thinking to genetics, statistics and the concept of multiple realizability\".\n\nThe philosopher Adolf Grünbaum criticized Nagel for misinterpreting the philosopher of science Henri Poincaré in \"Philosophical Problems of Space and Time\" (1973). The philosopher Douglas Hofstadter described Nagel's book as a classic in the philosophy of science in \"Gödel, Escher, Bach\" (1979). He praised it for Nagel's discussions of reductionism and holism and teleological and non-telological explanations. The historian Peter Gay praised \"The Structure of Science\" as an important book and a clear exposition of positivism in \"Style in History\" (1974). He credited Nagel with refuting opposing points of view. Gay wrote in \"Reading Freud\" (1990) that Nagel's work is a book on which \"many of us grew up\", and that it \"remains valuable\". He noted that while Nagel was \"no Freudian\", the closing sentence of \"The Structure of Science\" paraphrases the famous last paragraph of Sigmund Freud's \"The Future of an Illusion\" (1927).\n\nThe philosopher Roger Scruton praised Nagel's discussion of the \"dispute over the nature of theories and theoretical terms\" in \"Modern Philosophy: An Introduction and Survey\" (1994). The philosopher Isaac Levi described \"The Structure of Science\" as a well-known classic in its field in \"The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy\" (1999). The philosopher Michael Ruse described \"The Structure of Science\" as Nagel's \"definitive work\" in \"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\" (2005). However, he maintained that Thomas S. Kuhn's \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\" (1962) discredited Nagel's approach to the philosophy of science.\n\n"}
{"id": "291324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291324", "title": "The Ugly Duckling", "text": "The Ugly Duckling\n\n\"The Ugly Duckling\" (Danish: \"Den grimme ælling\") is a literary fairy tale by Danish poet and author Hans Christian Andersen (1805–1875). The story tells of a homely little bird born in a barnyard who suffers abuse from the others around him until, much to his delight (and to the surprise of others), he matures into a beautiful swan, the most beautiful bird of all. The story is beloved around the world as a tale about personal transformation for the better. “The Ugly Duckling” was first published 11 November 1843, with three other tales by Andersen in Copenhagen, Denmark to great critical acclaim. The tale has been adapted to various media including opera, musical, and animated film. The tale is completely Andersen's invention and owes no debt to fairy tales or folklore.\n\nWhen the story begins, a mother duck's eggs hatch. One of the little birds is perceived by the other birds and animals on the farm as a homely little creature and suffers much verbal and physical abuse from them. He wanders sadly from the barnyard and lives with wild ducks and geese until hunters slaughter the flocks. He finds a home with an old woman, but her cat and hen tease and taunt him mercilessly and once again he sets off alone.\n\nThe duckling sees a flock of migrating wild swans. He is delighted and excited, but he cannot join them, for he is too young and cannot fly. Winter arrives. A farmer finds and carries the freezing little duckling home, but the foundling is frightened by the farmer’s noisy children and flees the house. He spends a miserable winter alone in the outdoors, mostly hiding in a cave on the lake that partly freezes over. When spring arrives, a flock of swans descends on the lake.\n\nThe ugly duckling, now having fully grown and matured, is unable to endure a life of solitude and hardship any more and decides to throw himself at the flock of swans deciding that it is better to be killed by such beautiful birds than to live a life of ugliness and misery. He is shocked when the swans welcome and accept him, only to realize by looking at his reflection in the water that he has grown into one of them. The flock takes to the air, and the now beautiful swan spreads his gorgeous large wings and takes flight with the rest of his new kind family.\n\nAndersen first conceived the story in 1842 while enjoying the beauty of nature during his stay at the country estate of Bregentved, and lavished a year's worth of attention upon it. He initially considered \"The Young Swans\" as the tale's title but, not wanting to spoil the element of surprise in the protagonist’s transformation, discarded it for \"The Ugly Duckling\". He later confessed that the story was \"a reflection of my own life\", and, when the critic Georg Brandes questioned Andersen about whether he would write his autobiography, the poet claimed that it had already been written — \"The Ugly Duckling\".\n\n“The Ugly Duckling” was first published in Copenhagen, Denmark 11 November 1843 in \"New Fairy Tales. First Book. First Collection. 1844. (Nye Eventyr. Første Bind. Første Samling. 1844.)\". For the first time the phrase \"told for children\" was not part of the title—an omission Andersen scholar Jackie Wullschlager believes exhibited a new confidence on Andersen's part: \"These [tales] were the most mature and perfectly constructed tales he had written, and though some of them at once became, and have remained, favorites of children, Andersen here melds together the childlike and the profound with exceptional artistry.\" The first edition of 850 was sold out by December 18, and Reitzel planned another 850.\n\nThe tale was fourth and last in the volume that included (in contents order), \"The Angel\" (\"Englen\"), \"The Nightingale\" (\"Nattergalen\"), and \"The Sweethearts; or, The Top and the Ball\" (\"Kjærestefolkene [Toppen og bolden]\"). The volume sold out almost immediately and Andersen wrote on December 18, 1843: “The book is selling like hot cakes. All the papers are praising it, everyone is reading it! No books of mine are appreciated in the way these fairy tales are!” Andersen promoted the tale by reading it aloud at social gatherings. The tale was republished 18 December 1849 in \"Fairy Tales. 1850. (Eventyr. 1850.)\" and again 15 December 1862 in \"Fairy Tales and Stories. First Volume. 1862. (Eventyr og Historier. Første Bind. 1862.)\" The tale has since been translated into various languages and published around the world and has become the most famous story by Andersen.\n\nIn reviewing \"Hans Christian Andersen: A New Life\" by biographer Jens Andersen, British journalist Anne Chisholm writes “Andersen himself was a tall, ugly boy with a big nose and big feet, and when he grew up with a beautiful singing voice and a passion for the theater he was cruelly teased and mocked by other children\". The ugly duckling is the child of a swan whose egg accidentally rolled into a duck's nest.\n\nSpeculation suggests that Andersen was the illegitimate son of Prince Christian Frederik (later King Christian VIII of Denmark), and found this out some time before he wrote the book, and then that being a swan in the story was a metaphor not just for inner beauty and talent but also for secret royal lineage.\n\nBruno Bettelheim observes in \"The Uses of Enchantment\" that the Ugly Duckling is not confronted with the tasks, tests, or trials of the typical fairy tale hero. “No need to accomplish anything is expressed in “The Ugly Duckling”. Things are simply fated and unfold accordingly, whether or not the hero takes some action.” In conjunction with Bettelheim’s assessment, Maria Tatar notes in ’’The Annotated Hans Christian Andersen’’ that Andersen suggests that the Ugly Duckling‘s superiority resides in the fact that he is of a breed different from the barnyard rabble, and that dignity and worth, moral and aesthetic superiority are determined by nature rather than accomplishment.\n\nAccording to Carole Rosen, the story was inspired in part by Andersen's friend Jenny Lind.\n\n\"The Ugly Duckling\" became one of Andersen's best loved tales and was reprinted around the world. The tale was adapted to a variety of media. Films based on the tale include two \"Silly Symphonies\" animated shorts produced by Walt Disney called \"The Ugly Duckling\". The first was produced in 1931 in black and white, and a remake in 1939 in Technicolor. The latter film won the 1939 Academy Award for Best Short Subject (Cartoons), and was the last Silly Symphony to be made. The main difference between the Andersen story and the Disney version is that, in the latter, the little bird's ordeal lasts for only a few minutes, not for months. In 1936, the Fleischer brothers adapted the story for their animated short \"The Little Stranger\", reversing the story by having an odd chick born into a family of ducks. In 1956 the Soviet animation studio Soyuzmultfilm produced its own 19 minutes version of The Ugly Duckling. The anime \"Princess Tutu\" is about a duck that turns into a swan-like ballerina. In 2006, the Danish animation studio A. Film produced a spin-off CG feature called \"The Ugly Duckling and Me!\", and later produced a children's CG television series \"Ugly Duckling Junior\" which featured the same characters as the movie. The 1954 Tom and Jerry cartoon \"Downhearted Duckling\" is also based on the famous story.\n\nThe tale has seen various musical adaptations. In 1914, the Russian composer Sergei Prokofiev composed a work for voice and piano based on Nina Meshcherskaya's adaptation of the tale and, in 1932, arranged the work for voice and orchestra. This was transcribed by Lev Konov in 1996, and his opera was a great success in Russia. Other musical versions include the song “The Ugly Duckling” composed by Frank Loesser and sung by Danny Kaye for the 1952 Charles Vidor musical film \"Hans Christian Andersen\", and \"Honk!\", a musical based on the tale which was produced in Britain and won an Olivier Award. The tale was adapted to a musical by Gail Deschamps and Paul Hamilton with a planned United States tour 2002-2003. In 1998, the musical played the Piccolo Spoleto for seventeen days.\n\nIn 1999, Jerry Pinkney adapted the story as a children's picture book.\n\nIn 2009, the Dance Theatre of Bradenton, Florida, presented the ballet version of the popular tale (Allison Norton: The Ugly Duckling).\n\nIn 2010, Garri Bardin directed a feature-length stop-motion musical of the story set to Tchaikovsky's ballet music.\n\nIn 2012, a musical adaptation of the story, with ten original songs, was released by JJ’s Tunes & Tales. The album, titled “The Ugly Duckling: Story with Songs” contains both songs and spoken narration, and was released independently on CD Baby and iTunes. Examples of song titles include: Hatching of the Eggs; A Better Place; Song of the Swans; What’s the Matter with You; It’s a Big, Big World; Pretty Good Place to Live.\n\n\"GivingTales\" – in 2015 a storytelling app for children was created in aid of Unicef. The Ugly Duckling read by Stephen Fry is included in this collection of fairy tales along with other stories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28366620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28366620", "title": "The Woman Who Had No Shadow", "text": "The Woman Who Had No Shadow\n\n\"The Woman Who Had No Shadow\" is a Scandinavian fairy tale, included by Sven Grundtvig in \"Gamle danske Minder i Folkemunde\" and Ella Ohlson in \"Sagor från Ångermanland\".\n\nIt is Aarne-Thompson type 755, Sin and grace.\n\nA woman, wishing to have no children, threw rocks into a well at a witch's direction. Thereafter, she had no shadow. Her husband, the parson, demanded to know why and threw her out, saying that their slate roof would blossom with flowers before she was forgiven. One day, a beggar woman sought refuge there; she died in the night, the parson recognized her as his wife, and the housekeeper called him out to see how the roof had bloomed with flowers.\n\nThe legend of \"Tannhäuser\" features the same growth as evidence of miraculous forgiveness.\n\n\"Die Frau ohne Schatten\" by Hugo von Hofmannsthal and Richard Strauss is loosely based on this tale.\n"}
{"id": "57122210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57122210", "title": "The World's Most Extraordinary Homes", "text": "The World's Most Extraordinary Homes\n\nThe World's Most Extraordinary Homes is a British documentary miniseries presented by Caroline Quentin and Piers Taylor and is broadcast on BBC Two.\n\nThe documentary miniseries follows \"award-winning architect Piers Taylor and actress and property enthusiast Caroline Quentin explore a range of incredible architect-designed houses in extreme locations around the world. Whether built into the side of a cliff, nestled in a forest, perched at the top of a mountain or hidden under the earth, these homes connect to their environments in a spectacular way. Each episode is themed according to the houses environments — Coast, Forest, Mountain and Underground — with Piers and Caroline traveling to locations ranging from North America to Australasia and Europe. To explore how these dramatic designs function both as works of architecture and as real houses, they stay overnight, eat meals and spend time in the homes.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "416720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=416720", "title": "Theatrical company management", "text": "Theatrical company management\n\nCompany management in a theatre or a travelling company entails all of the travelling, accommodation and day-to-day needs of the acting, design and technical company members. In regional theatres it often includes renting apartments and hotel rooms, booking airline tickets, orchestrating furnishings and cleanings for rented apartments, and dealing with any special needs and requests. Company managers will also often coordinate auditions and aid in contracting actors and creatives.\n\nIn a travelling company the company manager also arranges for travel and housing, but might also travel with the production. In most local or regional theaters the company manager takes on the job of being the liaison to the actors. The company manager is not only the direct point of contact of any questions the actors might have but he or she is the direct contact from the management team to the actors.\n\nIn traveling shows or festivals the company manager might be responsible for all staff issues, such as: travel arrangements and meals for not only the actors but for the entire staff. But in theaters such as Broadway or regional theaters where actors are stationary for a longer run; the company manager takes on the actors and the production manager deals with the tech crew.\n"}
{"id": "24141162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24141162", "title": "Tristimulus colorimeter", "text": "Tristimulus colorimeter\n\nA Tristimulus colorimeter, colloquially shortened to colorimeter, is used in digital imaging, to profile and calibrate output devices.\nIt takes a limited number of wideband spectral energy readings along the visible spectrum by using filtered photodetectors; e.g. silicon photodiodes.\n\nA colorimeter with the known value of absolute error allows measuring (x,y)-chromaticity coordinates in red, green, blue and white colors. Measured values are used for calculation of LCD profile coefficients.\n\nOriginally, three glass filters whose transmittance spectra mimicked the CIE color matching functions (shown below) were employed. A filter bank may be used to decompose the individual color matching functions if more accuracy is desired.\n\nA camera or colorimeter is said to be \"colorimetric\" if it satisfies the by (1868–1945) (also called the \"Maxwell-Ives criterion\"), reducing observer metamerism color errors, if the product of the spectral responsivity of the photoreceptor and the spectral transmittance of the filters is a linear combination of the CMFs.\n\nA colorimeter or a digital camera with a color filter array can, under certain conditions, be used as an alternative to a spectrophotometer.\n\nThe illuminant and observer conditions should be specified when citing a measurement (e.g. D65/10°).\n\nThe quality of a colorimeter may be assessed using the means in CIE publication 179:2007.\n\nThere are various calibration methods for tristimulus colorimeters.\n"}
