{"id": "419848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419848", "title": "1995 in politics", "text": "1995 in politics\n\nThese are some of the notable events relating to politics in 1995.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39698574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39698574", "title": "Aghazadeh", "text": "Aghazadeh\n\nAghazadeh () is a term that entered the colloquialism in Iran in the 1990s to describe the children of elite who emerge as the men of means and influence, usually in a way that resembles familial nepotism and corruption. This includes utilization of the positions within the hierarchy to gain inside information and preferential status which results in replication of wealth and power across generations and means \"fewer top positions are available to talented people without family connections\".\n\nThe phenomenon is exemplified with family members of high-ranking officials such as Hashemi Rafsanjani, Nategh Nouri and Vaez Tabasi.\n\nIn 2017, \"good genes\" (), a new term was coined and became synonymous with \"Aghazadeh\"s and \"the privileges they enjoy\".\n"}
{"id": "1034597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1034597", "title": "Ahmed Dini Ahmed", "text": "Ahmed Dini Ahmed\n\nAhmed Dini Ahmed (1932 – 12 September 2004) () was a Djiboutian politician. He was trained as a health technician and entered the political realm at age 26. He served as Vice-president of the Representative Council of French Somaliland from April 1959 to June 1960, he was a member of the government of Ali Aref Bourhan in 1962-1964, he then participated in the foundation of the Afar Democratic Union (UDA). He is Minister of Home Affairs until 1971. In 1975, he became spokesman for the new African People's League for Independence (LPAI), led by Hassan Gouled Aptidon and was later Prime Minister of Djibouti from 1977 to 1978. In July 1977, he became Prime Minister of the new Republic of Djibouti. In December, after the bombing of the Palm in Zinc, and the consequent ban on the Movement for the Liberation (MPL), he resigned and returned to the opposition. He led the Front for the Restoration of Unity and Democracy (FRUD), an Afar rebel group, during the civil war of the 1990s; after the group split in 1994, he led a radical faction of FRUD.\n\nAhmed, a member of the Afar ethnic group, was born near Mount Mabla in the northern Djibouti. Following independence, Ahmed became Prime Minister as well Minister in charge of Urban and Regional Planning (\"Aménagement du territoire\") and the Creation of New Resources in July 1977. He resigned from the position six months later after clashing with President Hassan Gouled Aptidon.\n\nHe led FRUD in its armed struggle against the government, which began in 1991. He led the movement that engaged in a desert war against Issa domination which surfaced soon after independence was established. FRUD split in 1994, and a moderate faction led by Ali Mohamed Daoud entered negotiations with the government (signing a peace agreement in December 1994), while Ahmed continued to lead a radical faction which vowed to continue to fight. The radical faction held a congress in late September 1994 and elected Dini as head of its executive committee. Following the signing of a reconciliation agreement between his faction and the government in February 2000, Dini returned to Djibouti from Yemen on 29 March 2000, ending nine years of exile.\n\nIn the January 2003 parliamentary election, he was the first candidate on the candidate list of the opposition coalition, the Union for a Democratic Alternative (UAD), in the District of Djibouti; however, the coalition did not win any seats.\n\nHe died on 12 September 2004 at a French military hospital in Djibouti.\n"}
{"id": "23520923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23520923", "title": "Ambiguities in Chinese character simplification", "text": "Ambiguities in Chinese character simplification\n\nA relatively small number of Chinese characters known as : ; : do not have a one-to-one mapping between their simplified and traditional forms. \n\nThis is usually because the simplification process merged two or more distinct characters into one. In most cases, these traditional characters are homonyms, having the same pronunciation but different meanings. As a result, converting text from simplified to traditional characters is difficult to automate, especially in the case of common characters such as (\"behind\" or \"empress\"), (table, clock), (\"traitor\" or \"rape\") and more.\n\nIn a much smaller number of cases, a single traditional character is mapped to multiple simplified characters.\n\nThe following is an exhaustive list of all characters whose simplified and traditional forms do not map in a one-to-one manner. Simplified characters are marked with a background, and traditional characters with .\n\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n　\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18940658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18940658", "title": "Anti-communism", "text": "Anti-communism\n\nAnti-communism is opposition to communism. Organized anti-communism developed after the 1917 October Revolution in the Russia and it reached global dimensions during the Cold War, when the United States and the Soviet Union engaged in an intense rivalry. Anti-communism has been an element of movements holding many different political positions, including nationalist, social democratic, liberal, conservative, fascist, capitalist, anarchist and even socialist viewpoints.\n\nThe first organization specifically dedicated to opposing communism was the Russian White movement, which fought in the Russian Civil War starting in 1918 against the recently established Communist government. The White movement was supported militarily by several allied foreign governments, which represented the first instance of anti-communism as a government policy. Nevertheless, the Communist Red Army defeated the White movement and the Soviet Union was created in 1922. During the existence of the Soviet Union, anti-communism became an important feature of many different political movements and governments across the world.\n\nIn the United States, anti-communism came to prominence with the First Red Scare of 1919–1920. During the 1920s and 1930s, opposition to communism in Europe was promoted by conservatives, social democrats, liberals and fascists. Fascist governments rose to prominence as major opponents of communism in the 1930s and they founded the Anti-Comintern Pact in 1936 as an anti-communist alliance. In Asia, the Empire of Japan and the Kuomintang (the Chinese Nationalist Party) were the leading anti-communist forces in this period.\n\nAfter World War II, fascism ceased to be a major political movement due to the defeat of the Axis powers. The victorious Allies were an international coalition led primarily by the United States, the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union, but after the war this alliance quickly broke down into two opposing camps: a Communist one led by the Soviet Union and a capitalist one led by the United States. The rivalry between the two sides came to be known as the Cold War and during this period the United States government played a leading role in supporting global anti-communism as part of its containment policy. There were numerous military conflicts between Communists and anti-Communists in various parts of the world, including the Chinese Civil War, the Korean War, the Vietnam War and the Soviet–Afghan War. NATO was founded as an anti-communist military alliance in 1949 and continued throughout the Cold War.\n\nWith the Revolutions of 1989 and the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, most of the world's Communist governments were overthrown and the Cold War ended. Nevertheless, anti-communism remains an important intellectual element of many contemporary political movements and organized anti-communism is a factor in the domestic opposition found to varying degrees within the People's Republic of China and other countries governed by Communist parties.\n\nSince the split of the Communist parties from the socialist Second International to form the Communist Third International, democratic socialists and social democrats have been critical of Communism for its anti-democratic nature. Examples of left-wing critics of Communist states and parties are such as Friedrich Ebert, Boris Souveraine, Bayard Rustin, Irving Howe and Max Shachtman. The American Federation of Labor has always been strongly anti-communist. The more leftist Congress of Industrial Organizations purged its Communists in 1947 and has been staunchly anti-communist ever since. In Britain, the Labour Party strenuously resisted Communist efforts to infiltrate its ranks and take control of locals in the 1930s. The Labour Party became anti-communist and Labour Prime Minister Clement Attlee was a staunch supporter of NATO.\n\nAlthough most anarchists describe themselves as communists, most anarchists criticize authoritarian Communist parties and states. Many argue that Marxist concepts such as dictatorship of the proletariat and state ownership of the means of production are anathema to anarchism. Some anarchists criticize communism from an individualist point of view.\n\nAnarchists initially participated in and rejoiced over the 1917 February Revolution as an example of workers taking power for themselves. However, after the October Revolution it became evident that the Bolsheviks and the anarchists had very different ideas. Anarchist Emma Goldman, deported from the United States to Russia in 1919, was initially enthusiastic about the revolution, but was left sorely disappointed and began to write her book \"My Disillusionment in Russia\". Anarchist Peter Kropotkin proffered trenchant criticism of the emergent Bolshevik bureaucracy in letters to Vladimir Lenin, noting in 1920 that \"[a party dictatorship] is positively harmful for the building of a new socialist system. What is needed is local construction by local forces. [...] Russia has already become a Soviet Republic only in name\". Many anarchists fought against Russian, Spanish and Greek Communists—many were killed by them, such as Lev Chernyi, Camillo Berneri and Konstantinos Speras.\n\nIn \"The Communist Manifesto\", Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels outline some provisional short-term measures that could be steps towards communism. They note: \"These measures will, of course, be different in different countries. Nevertheless, in most advanced countries, [these measures] will be pretty generally applicable\". Ludwig von Mises described this as a \"10-point plan\" for the redistribution of land and production and argues that the initial and ongoing forms of redistribution constitute direct coercion. Neither Marx's 10-point plan nor the rest of the manifesto say anything about who has the right to carry out the plan. Milton Friedman argued that the absence of voluntary economic activity makes it too easy for repressive political leaders to grant themselves coercive powers. Friedman's view was also shared by Friedrich Hayek and John Maynard Keynes, both of whom believed that capitalism is vital for freedom to survive and thrive.\n\nObjectivists who follow Ayn Rand are strongly anti-communist. They argue that wealth (or any other human value) is the creation of individual minds, that human nature requires motivation by personal incentive and therefore that only political and economic freedom are consistent with human prosperity. They believe this is demonstrated by the comparative prosperity of free market and socialist economies. Rand writes that Communist leaders typically claim to work for the common good, but many or all of them have been corrupt and totalitarian.\n\nMilovan Djilas was a former Yugoslav Communist official who became a prominent dissident and critic of Communism. Leszek Kołakowski was a Polish Communist who became a famous anti-communist. He was best known for his critical analyses of Marxist thought, especially his acclaimed three-volume history, \"Main Currents of Marxism\", which is \"considered by some to be one of the most important books on political theory of the 20th century\". \"The God That Failed\" is a 1949 book which collects together six essays with the testimonies of a number of famous former Communists who were writers and journalists. The common theme of the essays is the authors' disillusionment with and abandonment of Communism. The promotional byline to the book is \"Six famous men tell how they changed their minds about Communism\". Four more notable anti-communists were Whittaker Chambers, a former spy for the Soviet Union who testified against his fellow spies before the House Un-American Activities Committee; Dr. Bella Dodd; and Anatoliy Golitsyn and Oleg Kalugin—both former KGB and the latter a general.\n\nOther anti-communists who were once Marxists include the writers Max Eastman, John Dos Passos, James Burnham, Morrie Ryskind, Frank Meyer, Will Herberg, Sidney Hook, Louis Fischer, André Gide, Arthur Koestler, Ignazio Silone, Stephen Spender, Peter Hitchens, Zita Seabra, Tajar Zavalani and Richard Wright. Anti-communists who were once socialists, liberals or social democrats include John Chamberlain, Friedrich Hayek, Raymond Moley, Norman Podhoretz and Irving Kristol.\n\nFascism is often considered to be a reaction to communist and socialist uprisings in Europe. Italian Fascism, founded and led by Benito Mussolini, took power after years of leftist unrest led many conservatives to fear that a communist revolution was inevitable. Historians Ian Kershaw and Joachim Fest argue that in the early 1920s the Nazis were only one of many nationalist and fascist political parties contending for the leadership of Germany's anti-communist movement. The Nazis only came to dominance during the Great Depression, when they organized street battles against German Communist formations. When Adolf Hitler came to power in 1933, his propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels set up the \"Anti-Komintern\". It published massive amounts of anti-Bolshevik propaganda, with the goal of demonizing Bolshevism and the Soviet Union before a worldwide audience. In Europe, numerous far-right activists including some conservative intellectuals, capitalists and industrialists were vocal opponents of Communism. During the late 1930s and the 1940s, several other anti-communist regimes and groups supported fascism: the Falange Española Tradicionalista y de las JONS in Spain; the Vichy regime and the Legion of French Volunteers against Bolshevism (\"Wehrmacht\" Infantry Regiment 638) in France; and in South America movements such as Brazilian Integralism.\n\nMost exiled Russian aristocrats as well as exiled Russian liberals were actively anti-communist in the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nIn Britain, anti-communism was widespread among the British foreign policy elite in the 1930s with its strong upperclass connections. The upper-class Cliveden set was strongly anti-communist in Britain.\n\nThích Huyền Quang was a prominent Vietnamese Buddhist monk and anti-communist dissident. In 1977, Quang wrote a letter to Prime Minister Phạm Văn Đồng detailing accounts of oppression by the Communist regime. For this, he and five other senior monks were arrested and detained. In 1982, Quang was arrested and subsequently placed under permanent house arrest for opposition to government policy after publicly denouncing the establishment of the state-controlled Vietnam Buddhist Church. Thích Quảng Độ is a Vietnamese Buddhist monk and an anti-communist dissident. In January 2008, the Europe-based magazine \"A Different View\" chose Thích Quảng Độ as one of the 15 Champions of World Democracy.\n\nThe Catholic Church has a history of anti-communism. The most recent Catechism of the Catholic Church states: \"The Catholic Church has rejected the totalitarian and atheistic ideologies associated in modern times with 'communism'. [...] Regulating the economy solely by centralized planning perverts the basis of social bonds [...] [Still,] reasonable regulation of the marketplace and economic initiatives, in keeping with a just hierarchy of values and a view to the common good, is to be commended\".\n\nPope John Paul II was a harsh critic of Communism as was Pope Pius IX, who issued a Papal encyclical, entitled \"Quanta cura\", in which he called \"Communism and Socialism\" the most fatal error.\n\nFrom 1945 onward, the Australian Labor Party (ALP) leadership accepted the assistance of an anti-communist Roman Catholic movement, led by B. A. Santamaria to oppose alleged communist subversion of Australian trade unions, of which Catholics were an important traditional support base. Bert Cremean, Deputy Leader of State Parliamentary Labor Party and Santamaria, met with ALP's political and industrial leaders to discuss the movements assisting their opposition to what they alleged was Communist subversion of Australian trade unionism. To oppose Communist infiltration of unions Industrial Groups were formed. The groups were active from 1945 to 1954, with the knowledge and support of the ALP leadership, until after Labor's loss of the 1954 election, when federal leader H. V. Evatt in the context of his response to the Petrov affair blamed \"subversive\" activities of the \"Groupers\" for the defeat. After bitter public dispute, many Groupers (including most members of the New South Wales and Victorian state executives and most Victorian Labor branches) were expelled from the ALP and formed the historical Democratic Labor Party (DLP). In an attempt to force the ALP reform and remove alleged Communist influence, with a view to then rejoining the \"purged\" ALP, the DLP preferenced (see Australian electoral system) the Liberal Party of Australia (LPA), enabling them to remain in power for over two decades. The strategy was unsuccessful and after the Whitlam Government during the 1970s the majority of the DLP decided to wind up the party in 1978, although a small Federal and State party continued based in Victoria (see Democratic Labour Party) with state parties reformed in New South Wales and Queensland in 2008.\n\nAfter the Soviet occupation of Hungary during the final stages of the Second World War, many clerics were arrested. The case of the Archbishop József Mindszenty of Esztergom, head of the Catholic Church in Hungary, was the most known. He was accused of treason to the Communist ideas and was sent to trials and tortured during several years between 1949 and 1956. During the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 against Communism, Mindszenty was set free and after the failure of the movement he was forced to move to the United States' embassy on Budapest, where he lived until 1971 when the Vatican and the Communist government of Hungary pacted his way out to Austria. In the following years, Mindszenty travelled all over the world visiting the Hungarian colonies in Canada, United States, Germany, Austria, South Africa and Venezuela. He led a high critical campaign against the Communist regime denouncing the atrocities committed by them against him and the Hungarian people. The Communist government accused him and demanded that the Vatican remove him the title of Archbishop of Esztergom and forbid him to make public speeches against Communism. The Vatican eventually annulled the excommunication imposed on his political opponents and stripped him of his titles. The Pope, who declared the Archdiocese of Esztergom officially vacated, refused to fill the seat while Mindszenty was still alive.\n\nFalun Gong practitioners are against the Communist Party of China's persecution of Falun Gong. In April 1999, over ten thousand Falun Gong practitioners gathered at the Communist party headquarters (Zhongnanhai) in a silent protest following an incident in Tianjin. Two months later, the Communist party banned the practice, initiated a security crackdown and began a propaganda campaign against it. Since 1999, Falun Gong practitioners in China have been subject to torture, arbitrary imprisonment, beatings, forced labor, organ harvesting and psychiatric abuses. Falun Gong responded with their own media campaign and have emerged as a notable voice of dissent against the Communist party by founding organizations such as the \"Epoch Times\", New Tang Dynasty Television and others that criticize the Communist party.\n\nIn 2006, allegations emerged that a large number of Falun Gong practitioners had been killed to supply China's organ transplant industry. The Kilgour-Matas report found that \"the source of 41,500 transplants for the six year period 2000 to 2005 is unexplained\" and concluded that \"there has been and continues today to be large scale organ seizures from unwilling Falun Gong practitioners\". Ethan Gutmann estimated that 65,000 Falun Gong practitioners were killed for their organs from 2000 to 2008.\n\nIn 2009, courts in Spain and Argentina indicted senior Chinese officials for genocide and crimes against humanity for their role in orchestrating the suppression of Falun Gong.\n\nGeorge Orwell, a democratic socialist, wrote two of the most widely read and influential anti-totalitarian novels, namely \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" and \"Animal Farm\", both of which featured allusions to the Soviet Union under the rule of Joseph Stalin.\n\nAlso on the left-wing, Arthur Koestler—a former member of the Communist Party of Germany—explored the ethics of revolution from an anti-communist perspective in a variety of works. His trilogy of early novels testified to Koestler's growing conviction that utopian ends do not justify the means often used by revolutionary governments. These novels are \"The Gladiators\" (which explores the slave uprising led by Spartacus in the Roman Empire as an allegory for the Russian Revolution), \"Darkness at Noon\" (based on the Moscow Trials, this was a very widely read novel that made Koestler one of the most prominent anti-communist intellectuals of the period), \"The Yogi And The Commissar\" and \"Arrival and Departure\".\n\nWhittaker Chambers—an American ex Communist who became famous for his cooperation with the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC), where he implicated Alger Hiss—published an anti-communist memoir, \"Witness\", in 1952. It became \"the principal rallying cry of anti-Communist conservatives\".\n\nBoris Pasternak, a Russian writer, rose to international fame after his anti-communist novel \"Doctor Zhivago\" was smuggled out of the Soviet Union (where it was banned) and published in the West in 1957. He received the Nobel Prize for Literature, much to the chagrin of the Soviet authorities.\n\nAleksandr Solzhenitsyn was a Russian novelist, dramatist and historian. Through his writings—particularly \"The Gulag Archipelago\" and \"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich\", his two best-known works—he made the world aware of the Gulag, the Soviet Union's forced labor camp system. For these efforts, Solzhenitsyn was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1970 and was exiled from the Soviet Union in 1974.\n\nHerta Müller is a Romanian-born German novelist, poet and essayist noted for her works depicting the harsh conditions of life in Communist Romania under the repressive Nicolae Ceauşescu regime, the history of the Germans in the Banat (and more broadly, Transylvania) and the persecution of Romanian ethnic Germans by Stalinist Soviet occupying forces in Romania and the Soviet-imposed Communist regime of Romania. Müller has been an internationally known author since the early 1990s and her works have been translated into more than 20 languages. She has received over 20 awards, including the 1994 Kleist Prize, the 1995 Aristeion Prize, the 1998 International IMPAC Dublin Literary Award, the 2009 Franz Werfel Human Rights Award and the 2009 Nobel Prize in Literature.\n\nAyn Rand was a Russian-American 20th-century writer who was an enthusiastic supporter of \"laissez-faire\" capitalism. She wrote \"We the Living\" about the effects of Communism in Russia.\n\nRichard Wurmbrand wrote about his experiences being tortured for his faith in Communist Romania. He ascribed Communism to a satanic conspiracy and alluded to Karl Marx being demon-possessed.\n\nSamizdat was a key form of dissident activity across the Soviet bloc. Individuals reproduced censored publications by hand and passed the documents from reader to reader, thus building a foundation for the successful resistance of the 1980s. This grassroots practice to evade officially imposed censorship was fraught with danger as harsh punishments were meted out to people caught possessing or copying censored materials. Vladimir Bukovsky defined it as follows: \"I myself create it, edit it, censor it, publish it, distribute it, and get imprisoned for it\".\n\nDuring the Cold War, Western countries invested heavily in powerful transmitters which enabled broadcasters to be heard in the Eastern Bloc, despite attempts by authorities to jam such signals. In 1947, Voice of America (VOA) started broadcasting in Russian with the intent to counter Soviet propaganda directed against American leaders and policies. These included Radio Free Europe (RFE), RIAS (Berlin), Deutsche Welle (DW), Radio France International (RFI) and the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). The Soviet Union responded by attempting aggressive, electronic jamming of VOA (and some other Western) broadcasts in 1949. The BBC World Service similarly broadcast language-specific programming to countries behind the Iron Curtain.\n\nIn the People's Republic of China, people have to bypass the Chinese Internet censorship and other forms of censorship.\n\nResolution 1481/2006 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE), issued on January 25, 2006 during its winter session, \"strongly condemns crimes of totalitarian communist regimes\".\n\nThe European Parliament has proposed making 23 August a Europe-wide day of remembrance for 20th-century Nazi and Communist crimes.\n\nIn the early years of the Cold War, Midhat Frashëri tried to patch together a coalition of anti-communist opposition forces in Britain and the United States. The \"Free Albania\" National Committee was officially formed on 26 August 1949 in Paris. Frashëri was its chairman, with other members of the Directing Board: Nuçi Kotta, Albaz Kupi, Said Kryeziu and Zef Pali. It was supported by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and placed as member of National Committee for a Free Europe.\n\nAlbania has enacted the Law on Communist Genocide with the purpose of expediting the prosecution of the violations of the basic human rights and freedoms by the former Communist governments of the Socialist People's Republic of Albania. The law has also been referred to in English as the \"Genocide Law\" and the \"Law on Communist Genocide\".\n\nIn February 1921, the left-wing nationalist Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaktsutyun) staged an uprising against the Bolshevik authorities of Armenia just three months after the disestablishment of the First Republic of Armenia and its Sovietization. The nationalists temporarily took power. Subsequently, the anti-communist rebels, led by the prominent nationalist leader Garegin Nzhdeh, retreated to the mountainous region of Zangezur (Syunik) and established the Republic of Mountainous Armenia, which lasted until mid-1921.\n\nSince before World War II, there were some anti-communist organizations such as the Union Civique Belge and the Société d'Etudes Politiques, Economiques et Sociales (SEPES).\n\nThe uprising in Plzeň was an anti-communist revolt by Czechoslovakian workers in 1953.\n\nThe Velvet Revolution or Gentle Revolution was a non-violent revolution in Czechoslovakia that saw the overthrow of the Communist government. It is seen as one of the most important of the Revolutions of 1989.\n\nOn 17 November 1989, riot police suppressed a peaceful student demonstration in Prague. That event sparked a series of popular demonstrations from 19 November to late December. By 20 November, the number of peaceful protesters assembled in Prague had swollen from 200,000 the previous day to an estimated half-million. A two-hour general strike, involving all citizens of Czechoslovakia, was held on 27 November. In June 1990, Czechoslovakia held its first democratic elections since 1946.\n\nIn Finland, nationalistic anti-communism existed before the Cold War in the forms of Lapua Movement and Patriotic People's Movement, which was outlawed after the Continuation War. During the Cold War, the Constitutional Right Party was opposed to communism.\n\nAt the end of 1932, François de Boisjolin organized Ligue Internationale Anti-Communiste. The organization members came mainly from the South West France. In 1939, the Law on the Freedom of the Press of 29 July 1881 was amended and François de Boisjolin and others were arrested.\n\nBefore 1997, most of the anti-communists were supporters of the Kuomintang. They opposed the Communist party's rule in mainland China and its single party dictatorship.\n\nHong Kong has had numerous anti-communist protests, supported by political parties of the pro-democracy camp. Memorials for the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 are held every year in Hong Kong. Tens of thousands people have attended the candlelight vigil. The end of the failed 2014 protests marked a new, intensified wave of civic nationalism in the territory. Local separatist supporters strongly opposed communist ideologies, especially those brought by Chinese rule.\n\nThe Hungarian Revolution of 1956 was a revolt against the government of the Hungarian People's Republic and its Stalinist policies, lasting from 23 October until 10 November 1956. The revolt began as a student demonstration which attracted thousands as it marched through central Budapest to the Parliament building. A student delegation entering the radio building in an attempt to broadcast its demands was detained. When the delegation's release was demanded by the demonstrators outside, they were fired upon by the State Security Police (ÁVH) from within the building. The news spread quickly and disorder and violence erupted throughout the capital. The revolt spread quickly across Hungary and the government fell. After announcing a willingness to negotiate a withdrawal of Soviet forces, the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union changed its mind and moved to crush the revolution.\n\nThe Indian state is involved in law and order operations against a long-standing Naxalite–Maoist insurgency.\n\nFrom October 1965 to the early months of 1966, an estimated 500,000–3,000,000 people were killed by the Indonesian military and allied militia in anti-communist purges which targeted members of the Communist Party of Indonesia and alleged sympathizers. Western governments colluded in the massacres, in particular the United States, which provided the Indonesian military weapons, money, equipment and lists containing the names of thousands of suspected communists. A tribunal in late 2016 declared the massacres a crime against humanity and also named the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia as accomplices to those crimes.\n\nUnder the Russian Civil War, Japan supported white movements such as Grigory Semyonov's White movement in Transbaikal and Anhui clique's Occupation of Mongolia, but the movements failed and the White Army defected to Manchuria. In 1920, the Zhili–Anhui War was caused and Anhui clique was beaten.\n\nIn March 1920, under the Nikolayevsk incident Jewish Russian journalist began to issue in Tokyo the \"\", an anti-Bolshevistic Russian newspaper. In June, , who had been the chief authorized officer and military representative at the Allied command in the Far East, discussed with the delegate of Semyonov's army and as the result acquired the \"Delo Rossii\". In July, he began to distribute the translated version of \"Delo Rossii\" to noted Japanese officials and non-officials.\n\nIn 1924, under the Second Zhili–Fengtian War Fengtian clique and the Soviet Union concluded the and the Soviet Union took the half control of the Chinese Eastern Railway and its railway zone. In 1925, the Soviet Union ordered the to dismiss White Russians from its railway zone. In 1926, Japan founded in Manchuria the , a news agency for gathering of Soviet information.\n\nIn 1928, Japanese army caused the Huanggutun incident and then Fengtian clique came under the Kuomintang (Northern Expedition). In 1929, Sino-Soviet conflict was caused. Under the conflict, the , which was according to Grigory Semyonov the successor of the Far Eastern Republic, planned the occupation of Primorsky Krai under Japanese support, but when they negotiated to Kuomintang regime the latter was afraid of White Russian's arming. After the Sino-Soviet conflict, defeated China concluded the which includes the suppression clause of White Army, but Kuomintang regime disturbed the conclusion of the treaty based on the protocol. In 1932, Japan established Manchukuo in Manchuria and then the Manchukuo founded the to protect the White Russians in 1934.\n\nIn 1933, Japan participated in the ninth conference of the International Entente Against the Third International and founded the Association for the Study of International Socialistic Ideas and Movements ().\n\nIn summer 1935, Comintern held the Seventh World Congress of the Comintern in which they set Japan and Germany as the communizing targets and the Chinese Communist Party declared the August 1 Declaration. After that, Japan defined anti-communistic \"Three Principles of HIROTA\" for relations with China and also Japan concluded the Anti-Comintern Pact with Germany. After the concluding, was founded in 1937 and the organization held the in 1938.\n\nIn March 1935, Manchukuo purchased the North Manchuria Railway and its railway zone from the Soviet Union (). The residents (Harbin Russians) who had Soviet nationality emigrated to the Soviet Union. In 1937, the Soviet Union ordered the NKVD Order No. 00593 to get rid of the relevant people of the White Russian.\n\nIn June 1938, under the Great Purge the Far Eastern Commander of the NKVD Genrikh Lyushkov defected to Japan. The note of Lyushkov was issued by Japanese authorities, but \"The New York Times\" judged the note was a \"Diary for Japanese Schoolboy\". In November 1938, Prime Minister Fumimaro Konoe declared the anti-communistic . In 1940, Japan, Manchukuo and Reorganized National Government of the Republic of China declared the which is based on the New Order in East Asia.\n\nIn 1948–1951, during the period of American occupation a \"red purge\" occurred in Japan in which over 20,000 people accused of being Communists were purged from their places of employment.\n\nBefore the founding of the People's Republic of China, the Kuomintang was ruling China and strongly opposed the Communist Party of China, causing the Chinese Civil War. The Kuomintang lost the war and went into exile in Taiwan while the rest of China became Communist in 1949.\n\nThe Chinese democracy movement is a loosely organized anti-communist movement in the People's Republic of China. The movement began during Beijing Spring in 1978 and played an important role in the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. The 1959 Tibetan Rebellion had some anti-communist leanings. In the 1990s, the movement underwent a decline both within China and overseas and it is currently fragmented and most analysts do not consider it a serious threat to Communist rule.\n\nCharter 08 is a manifesto signed by over 303 Chinese intellectuals and human rights activists to promote political reform and democratization in the People's Republic of China.\n\nIt declares a calling for greater freedom of expression and for free elections. It was published on 10 December 2008 (the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights) and its name is a reference to Charter 77, issued by dissidents in Czechoslovakia.\n\nSince its release, more than 8,100 people inside and outside China have signed the charter.\n\nVladimir Lenin saw Poland as the bridge which the Red Army would have to cross in order to assist the other Communist movements and help bring about other European revolutions. Poland was the first country which successfully stopped a Communist military advance. Between February 1919 and March 1921, Poland's successful defence of its independence was known as the Polish–Soviet War. According to American sociologist Alexander Gella, \"the Polish victory had gained twenty years of independence not only for Poland, but at least for an entire central part of Europe\".\n\nAfter the German and Soviet invasion of Poland in 1939, the first Polish uprising during World War II was against the Soviets. The Czortków Uprising occurred during 21–22 January 1940 in the Soviet-occupied Podolia. Teenagers from local high schools stormed the local Red Army barracks and a prison in order to release Polish soldiers who had been imprisoned there.\n\nIn the latter years of the war, there were increasing conflicts between Polish and Soviet partisans and some groups continued to oppose the Soviets long after the war. Between 1944 and 1946, soldiers of the anti-communist armed groups, known as the cursed soldiers, made a series of attacks on communist prisons immediately following the end of World War II in Poland. The last of the cursed soldiers, members of the militant anti-communist resistance in Poland, was Józef Franczak, who was killed with a pistol in his hand by ZOMO in 1963.\n\nPoznań 1956 protests were massive anti-communist protests in the People's Republic of Poland. Protesters were repressed by the regime.\n\nThe Polish 1970 protests () were anti-Comintern protests which occurred in northern Poland in December 1970. The protests were sparked by a sudden increase in the prices of food and other everyday items. As a result of the riots, brutally put down by the Polish People's Army and the Citizen's Militia, at least 42 people were killed and more than 1,000 were wounded.\nSolidarity was an anti-communist trade union in a Warsaw Pact country. In the 1980s, it constituted a broad anti-communist movement. The government attempted to destroy the union during the period of martial law in the early 1980s and several years of repression, but in the end it had to start negotiating with the union. The Round Table Talks between the government and the Solidarity-led opposition led to semi-free elections in 1989. By the end of August, a Solidarity-led coalition government was formed and in December 1990 Wałęsa was elected President of Poland. Since then, it has become a more traditional trade union.\n\nThe Romanian anti-communist resistance movement lasted between 1948 and the early 1960s. Armed resistance was the first and most structured form of resistance against the Communist regime. It was not until the overthrow of Nicolae Ceauşescu in late 1989 that details about what was called \"anti-communist armed resistance\" were made public. It was only then that the public learned about the numerous small groups of \"haiducs\" who had taken refuge in the Carpathian Mountains, where some resisted for ten years against the troops of the Securitate. The last \"haiduc\" was killed in the mountains of Banat in 1962. The Romanian resistance was one of the longest lasting armed movement in the former Soviet bloc.\n\nThe Romanian Revolution of 1989 was a week-long series of increasingly violent riots and fighting in late December 1989 that overthrew the government of Ceauşescu. After a show trial, Ceauşescu and his wife Elena were executed. Romania was the only Eastern Bloc country to overthrow its government violently or to execute its leaders.\n\nThe Moldovan anti-communist social movement emerged on 7 April 2009 in major cities of Moldova after the Party of Communists of the Republic of Moldova (PCRM) had allegedly rigged elections.\n\nThe anti-communists organized themselves using an online social network service, Twitter, hence its moniker used by the media, the Twitter Revolution or Grape revolution.\n\nDuring the 1970s, the right-wing military juntas of South America implemented Operation \"Condor\", a campaign of political repression involving tens of thousands of political assassinations, illegal detentions and tortures of communist sympathizers. The campaign was aimed at eradicating alleged communist and socialist influences in their respective countries and control opposition against the government, which resulted in a large number of deaths. Participatory governments include Argentina, Bolivia, Paraguay, Brazil, Chile and Uruguay, with limited support from the United States.\n\nChoi ji-ryong is an outspoken anti-communist cartoonist in South Korea. His editorial cartoons have been critical of Korean Presidents Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo Hyun.\n\n was organized in 1932. The Spanish Civil War was fought from 1936 to 1939 between the anti-communist Nationalist faction led by Francisco Franco and the pro-communist Republican faction led by Manuel Azaña. It ended with the capture of Madrid and a complete Nationalist victory in 1939.\n\nThe first major manifestation of anti-communism in the United States occurred in 1919 and 1920 during the First Red Scare, led by Attorney General Alexander Mitchell Palmer. During the Red Scare, the Lusk Committee investigated those suspected of sedition and many laws were passed in the United States that sanctioned the firings of Communists. The Hatch Act of 1939, which was sponsored by Carl Hatch of New Mexico, attempted to drive Communism out of public work places. The Hatch Act outlawed the hiring of federal workers who advocated the \"overthrow of our Constitutional form of government\". This phrase was specifically directed at the Communist Party. Later in the spring of 1941, another anti-communist law was passed, Public Law 135, which sanctioned the investigation of any federal worker suspected of being Communist and the firing of any Communist worker.\n\nCatholics often took the lead in fighting against Communism in America. Pat Scanlan (1894–1983) was the managing editor (1917–1968) of the \"Brooklyn Tablet\", the official paper of the Brooklyn diocese. He was a leader in the fight against the Ku Klux Klan and favored the work of the National Legion of Decency in minimizing sexuality in Hollywood films. Historian Richard Powers says:\n\nFollowing World War II and the rise of the Soviet Union, many anti-communists in the United States feared that Communism would triumph throughout the entire world and that it would eventually become a direct threat to the United States. There were fears that the Soviet Union and its allies such as People's Republic of China were using their power to forcibly bring countries under Communist rule. Eastern Europe, North Korea, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Malaya and Indonesia were cited as evidence of this. NATO was a military alliance of nations in Western Europe, led by the United States, to halt further Communist expansion in terms of the containment strategy.\n\nThe deepening of the Cold War in the 1950s saw a dramatic increase in anti-communism in the United States, including the anti-communist campaign known as McCarthyism. Thousands of Americans, such as the filmmaker Charlie Chaplin, were accused of being Communists or sympathizers and many became the subject of aggressive investigations by government committees such as the House Committee on Un-American Activities. As a result of sometimes vastly exaggerated accusations, many of the accused lost their jobs and became blacklisted, although most of these verdicts were later overturned. This was also the period of the McCarran Internal Security Act and the Julius and Ethel Rosenberg trial. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, many records were made public that in fact verified that many of those thought to be falsely accused for political purposes were in fact Communist spies or sympathizers (see Venona Project). It was in this period that Robert W. Welch Jr. organized the John Birch Society, which became a leading force against the \"Communist conspiracy\" in the United States.\n\nDuring the 1980s, the Ronald Reagan administration pursued an aggressive policy against the Soviet Union and its allies by building up weapons programs, including the Strategic Defense Initiative. The Reagan Doctrine was implemented to reduce the influence of the Soviet Union worldwide by providing aid to anti-Soviet resistance movements, including the Contras in Nicaragua and the Mujahideens in Afghanistan. The accidental downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 near Moneron Island by the Soviets on 1 September 1983 contributed to the anti-communism sentiment of the 1980s. KAL 007 had been carrying 269 people, including a sitting Congressman, Larry McDonald, who was a leader in the John Birch Society.\nThe United States government usually argued its anti-communist policies by citing the human rights record of Communist states, most notably the Soviet Union during the Joseph Stalin era, Maoist China, North Korea and the Pol Pot-led anti-Hanoi Khmer Rouge government and the pro-Hanoi People's Republic of Kampuchea in Cambodia. During the 1980s, the Kirkpatrick Doctrine was particularly influential in American politics and it advocated the United States support of anti-communist governments around the world, including authoritarian regimes. In support of the Reagan Doctrine and other anti-communist foreign and defense policies, prominent United States and Western anti-communists warned that the United States needed to avoid repeating the West's perceived mistakes of appeasement of Nazi Germany.\n\nIn one of the most prominent anti-communist speeches of any President, Reagan labeled the Soviet Union an \"evil empire\" and anti-communist intellectuals prominently defended the label. In 1987, for instance, in commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution, Michael Johns of The Heritage Foundation cited 208 perceived acts of evil by the Soviets since the revolution.\n\nIn 1993, Congress passed and President Clinton signed Public Law 103-199 for the construction of a national monument to the 100 million victims of Communism. In 2007 President Bush attended its inauguration.\n\nAnti-communism became significantly muted after the 1980s–1990s Chinese economic reform and the fall of the Soviet Union and Eastern bloc Communist governments in Europe between 1989 and 1991, the result of which being that fear of a worldwide Communist takeover was no longer a serious concern. However, remnants of anti-communism remain in foreign policy toward Cuba and North Korea. In the case of Cuba, the United States only recently began to terminate its economic sanctions against the country. Tensions with North Korea have heightened as the result of reports that it is stockpiling nuclear weapons and the assertion that it is willing to sell its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile technology to any group willing to pay a high enough price. Ideological restrictions on naturalization in United States law remain in effect, affecting prospective immigrants who were at one time members of a Communist party, the Communist Control Act, which outlaws the Communist Party, still remains in effect, even though it was never enforced by the Federal Government, some states also still have laws banning Communists from working in the state government.\n\nSince the 11 September attacks on the United States and the subsequent Patriot Act, overwhelmingly passed by the Congress and signed into law and strongly supported by President George W. Bush, some Communist groups in the United States have faced renewed scrutiny by the government. On 24 September 2010, over 70 FBI agents simultaneously raided homes and served subpoenas to prominent antiwar and international solidarity activists thought to be members of the Freedom Road Socialist Organization (FRSO) in Minneapolis, Chicago and Grand Rapids and visited and attempted to question activists in Milwaukee, Durham and San Jose. The search warrants and subpoenas indicated that the FBI was looking for evidence related to the \"material support of terrorism\". In the process of raiding an activist's home, FBI agents accidentally left behind a file of secret FBI documents showing that the raids were aimed at people who were or were suspected of being members of the FRSO. The documents revealed a series of questions that agents would ask activists regarding their involvement in the FRSO and their international solidarity work related to Colombia and Palestine. Later, members of the newly formed Committee to Stop FBI Repression held a press conference in Minnesota revealing that the FBI had placed an informant inside the FRSO to gather information prior to the raids.\n\nAnti-communist organizations that are located outside Vietnam but also hold demonstrations in Vietnam are Provisional National Government of Vietnam, Khmers Kampuchea-Krom Federation, Viet Tan, People's Action Party of Vietnam, Government of Free Vietnam, Montagnard Foundation, Inc., Vietnamese Constitutional Monarchist League and Nationalist Party of Greater Vietnam.\n\nCriticisms of anti-communism and accounts of political repression and economic development under Communist rule are diverse. Supporters of various ruling Communist parties have argued that accounts of political repression are exaggerated by anti-communists and that Communist rule provided some human rights not found under capitalism, such that everyone is treated equal regardless of education, financial stability or anything else, any citizen can keep a job or there is efficient distribution of resources. They further claim that countries under Communist party rule experienced greater economic development than they would have otherwise, or that Communist leaders were forced to take harsh measures to defend their countries against the West during the Cold War.\n\nSome Western academics argue that anti-communist narratives have exaggerated the extent of political repression and censorship in states under communist rule. Albert Szymanski, for instance, draws a comparison between the treatment of anti-communist dissidents in the Soviet Union after Stalin's death and the treatment of dissidents in the United States during the period of McCarthyism, claiming that \"on the whole, it appears that the level of repression in the Soviet Union in the 1955 to 1980 period was at approximately the same level as in the United States during the McCarthy years (1947–1956).\nMark Aarons contends that right-wing authoritarian regimes and dictatorships backed by Western powers committed atrocities and mass killings that rival the Communist world, citing examples such as the Indonesian mass killings of 1965–66 and the killings associated with Operation \"Condor\" throughout South America. Writing in \"Current Affairs\" in October 2017, editor-in-chief Nathan J. Robinson posits that if \"Soviet atrocities indict socialism\", then \"principled and consistent belief\" would hold that \"U.S support for the killing of 500,000 Indonesian communists indicts American capitalist democracy\".\n\nIn her 2012 book \"The Communist Horizon\", American political philosopher Jodi Dean argues that two decades after the dissolution of the Soviet Union virulent anti-communism persists on the contemporary political landscape and is embraced by all sides of the political spectrum, including conservatives, liberals, democrats, capitalists and social democrats. She says that a double standard exists in how communism and capitalism are perceived in the popular consciousness. The worst excesses of capitalism, including slavery, unemployment, economic inequality, global warming, robber barons, war and imperialism, the Great Depression and the Great Recession, are often minimized, which allows the history of capitalism to be more dynamic and nuanced. By contrast, Communism is often equated only with the Soviet Union (Communist experiments in Eastern Europe, Latin America, Africa and Asia are often ignored) and then only the twenty-six years of Stalin's rule, with strong emphasis placed on gulags, purges and famines and almost no consideration for the modernization of the economy, the successes of Soviet science (such as the Soviet space program) or the rise in the standard of living for the once predominantly agrarian society. The collapse of the Soviet Union is thus seen as the proof that Communism can not work. This allows for all left-wing criticism of the excesses of neoliberal capitalism to be silenced, for the alternatives will supposedly inevitably result in economic inefficiency and violent authoritarianism.\n\nAs an example of this alleged double standard, social critic Noam Chomsky has stated in his criticism of \"The Black Book of Communism\" by outlining economist Amartya Sen's research on hunger that while India's democratic institutions prevented famines, its excess of mortality over Communist China—potentially attributable to the latter's more equal distribution of medical and other resources—was nonetheless close to 4 million per year for non-famine years. Thus, Chomsky argued that \"supposing we now apply the methodology of the \"Black Book\"\" to India, \"the democratic capitalist \"experiment\" has caused more deaths than in the entire history of [...] Communism everywhere since 1917: over 100 million deaths by 1979, and tens of millions more since, in India alone\".\n\nOther academics and journalists, among them Kristen R. Ghodsee and Seumas Milne respectively, assert that in the post-Cold War era any narratives which include Communism's achievements are often ignored while those which focus exclusively on the crimes of Stalin and other Communist leaders are amplified. Both allege this is done in part to silence any criticism of global capitalism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32669270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32669270", "title": "At Home With Julia", "text": "At Home With Julia\n\nAt Home With Julia is a four-part Australian sitcom television series, created and written by Amanda Bishop, Rick Kalowski and Phil Lloyd, which debuted on 7 September 2011 on ABC1. A re-run of the series aired on ABC2 in April 2012. Currently, the series is in syndication in the United States on Vibrant TV Network. \n\nThe series depicts a fictional representation of the relationship between Julia Gillard, the actual Prime Minister of Australia (played by Amanda Bishop), and Gillard's real-life partner, Tim Mathieson (played by Phil Lloyd). Fictionalised versions of actual Australian politicians and media personalities are portrayed throughout the series. Much of the action takes place at The Lodge, the Prime Minister's official residence in the national capital of Canberra. \n\nAlthough the first episode was received either relatively well or neutrally by the media, many critics responded negatively by the series' end. Some saw \"At Home with Julia\" as defying previous boundaries in political satire and political parody, with its emphasis on a female politician's personal life rather than her politics and public life. In particular, the media, viewers, and politicians were scandalised by the notorious \"flag scene\" from Episode 3 (\"The Leaker\")—in which the Prime Minister and partner Tim Mathieson were depicted apparently naked and post-coital under the Australian flag. \n\nThe series was a 2012 Australian Academy of Cinema and Television Arts Awards nominee for Best Television Comedy Series. Criticised by several social commentators as inappropriately disrespectful to the office of Prime Minister, \nthe show nevertheless proved very popular both with television audiences — becoming the most watched Australian scripted comedy series of 2011 — and with television critics.\nAccording to media reports, international versions of the series are being developed in the United Kingdom and Europe.\nNone of these shows however have been commissioned as of September 2013. \n\nThe series was sold to the United States for broadcast in 2012 and can there be viewed on Hulu.\n\nIn February 2013, the notorious \"flag sex-scene\" from Episode 3 (\"The Leaker\") was featured in the ABC1 series \"Shock Horror Aunty!\", a compilation of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's most controversial broadcast comedy incidents.\n\nNo second series was produced due to the uncertainty of how long the real Gillard would remain Prime Minister. Amanda Bishop did reprise the role of Gillard for \"Wednesday Night Fever\", however the real Gillard was ousted as Labor Party leader and thus Prime Minister just prior to the show's debut on ABC1.\n\nIn an atmosphere of budgetary cuts to the ABC and severe criticism of the use of political satire on it, no follow-up series has been produced about Tony Abbott, the former Coalition Prime Minister.\n\n\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n"}
{"id": "27562386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27562386", "title": "BlueHat", "text": "BlueHat\n\nBlueHat (or Blue Hat or Blue-Hat) is a term used to refer to outside computer security consulting firms that are employed to bug test a system prior to its launch, looking for exploits so they can be closed. In particular, Microsoft uses the term to refer to the computer security professionals they invited to find the vulnerability of their products such as Windows.\n\nThe Blue Hat Microsoft Hacker Conference is an event created by Window Snyder that is intended to open communication between Microsoft engineers and hackers. The event has led to both mutual understanding as well as the occasional confrontation. Microsoft developers were visibly uncomfortable when Metasploit was demonstrated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "612407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=612407", "title": "Byzantine Senate", "text": "Byzantine Senate\n\nThe Byzantine Senate or Eastern Roman Senate (, \"Synklētos\", or , \"Gerousia\") was the continuation of the Roman Senate, established in the 4th century by Constantine I. It survived for centuries, but even with its already limited power that it theoretically possessed, the Senate became increasingly irrelevant until its eventual disappearance circa 14th century.\n\nThe Senate of the Eastern Roman Empire originally consisted of Roman senators who happened to live in the East, or those who wanted to move to Constantinople, and a few other bureaucrats who were appointed to the Senate. Constantine offered free land and grain to any Roman Senators who were willing to move to the East. When Constantine founded the Eastern Senate in Byzantium, it initially resembled the councils of important cities like Antioch rather than the Roman Senate. His son Constantius II raised it from the position of a municipal to that of an Imperial body but the Senate in Constantinople had essentially the same limited powers as the Senate in Rome. Constantius II increased the number of Senators to 2,000 by including his friends, courtiers, and various provincial officials.\n\nThe traditional principles that Senatorial rank was hereditary and that the normal way of becoming a member of the Senate itself was by holding a magistracy still remained in full force. By the time of the permanent division of the Roman Empire in 395, Praetors' responsibilities had been reduced to a purely municipal role. Their sole duty was to manage the spending of money on the exhibition of games or on public works. However, with the decline of the other traditional Roman offices such as that of tribune the Praetorship remained an important portal through which aristocrats could gain access to either the Western or Eastern Senates. The Praetorship was a costly position to hold as Praetors were expected to possess a treasury from which they could draw funds for their municipal duties. There are known to have been eight Praetors in the Eastern Roman Empire who shared the financial burden between them. The late Eastern Roman Senate was very different from the Republican Senate as the offices of aedile and tribune had long fallen into abeyance and by the end of the 4th century the quaestorship was on the point of disappearing, save as a provincial magistrate. The Emperor or the Senate itself could also issue a decree to grant a man not born into the Senatorial order a seat in the Senate. Exemption from the expensive position of praetor would also often be conferred on such persons that had become Senators in this way.\n\nThe Senate was mostly composed of statesmen and officials, ranging from the most important statesmen in the Empire such as the Master of Offices and the Master of Soldiers to provincial governors and retired civil servants. The senatorial families in Constantinople tended to be less affluent and less distinguished than those in the West (where the size of the Senate had also been increased to 2,000 in the 4th century). Some aristocrats attempted to become senators in order to escape the difficult conditions that were imposed on them by late Roman Emperors such as Diocletian (r. 284-305 AD). The \"curiales\" (Roman middle class) were often forced to become decurions where they were charged with participating in local government at their own expense as well as having to collect taxes and pay any deficits from their own pockets. As it was recognised that many who sought seats in the Senate were doing so primarily to escape the harsh duties of the decurion Theodosius I decreed that they must complete their public service even if they became Senators.\n\nThe Senate was led by the Prefect of the City (Constantinople), who conducted all of its communications with the Emperor. It was composed of three orders, the \"illustres\", \"spectabiles\" and \"clarissimi\". The members of the \"illustres\" were those who held the highest offices in Eastern Rome, such as the Master of Soldiers and Praetorian Prefects. The \"spectabiles\" formed the middle class of the Senate and consisted of important statesmen such as proconsuls, vicars and military governors of the provinces. The \"clarissimi\" was the lower class of the senate and was attached to the governors of the provinces and to other lesser posts. Members of the lower two orders were permitted to live anywhere within the Empire and were generally inactive Senators. The majority of active members in the Senate were the \"illustres\", whose important offices were usually based in Constantinople and so were able to attend the Senate frequently. By the end of the 5th century the two lower classes were completely excluded from sitting in the Senate. During the reign of Justinian I the numbers of \"clarissimi\" were significantly increased which caused many officials to be promoted to the rank of \"spectabiles\" and this in turn caused there to be an increase of the numbers of \"illustres\", which had previously been the elite class of the Senate. As a result, a new order, the \"gloriosi\", was created to accommodate the highest ranking senators. It is important to note that being a Senator was generally a secondary career for most of the Senate's members, who usually possessed important positions within the administrative machinery of the Empire.\n\nWhilst the powers of the Senate were limited, it could pass resolutions (\"senatus consulta\") which the Emperor might adopt and issue in the form of edicts. It could thus suggest Imperial legislation, and it acted from time to time as a consultative body. Some Imperial laws took the form of 'Orations to the Senate', and were read aloud before the body. The Western Roman Emperor, Valentinian III, in 446, formulated a legislative procedure which granted to the Senate the right of co-operation, where any new law was to be discussed at a meeting between the Senate and the Council before being confirmed by the Emperor. This procedure was included in Justinian's code although it is unclear whether it was fully adopted in the East. In addition the Emperor would use the Senate as a judicial court, and trials for high treason were sometimes referred to it. Ordinary crimes would also often be judged by a court consisting of the Prefect of the City and five Senators chosen by lot. The Senate also maintained constitutional significance in that officially Emperors were to be chosen by the military and the Senate, although succession was almost always hereditary.\n\nThere were incidents when the Senate confronted the Emperor and attempted to assert authority on the basis of their constitutional importance regarding the succession of an Emperor. In 457 they offered to make the Master of Soldiers, the Alan Aspar, Emperor, but the tribune and Senator Leo I, who was Aspar's subordinate, ascended to the throne. In 532, some of the Senators gave their support to the Nika rioters against Justinian I, who did not like or trust the wealthy Senate. After 541, the Senate lost many of its members due to a plague pandemic and during the ensuing economic turmoil, Justinian confiscated the wealth of many of the remaining Senators. In 608 during the rule of Phocas, Heraclius the Elder and his son Heraclius were declared consuls with the backing of Senate members in Carthage. Heraclius later was elected Emperor. Previous emperor Phocas was deposed by the Senate and arrested in a church by two senators.\n\nWhen Emperor Heraclius died in 641, he left the Empire to be ruled by two of his sons: Constantine III from his first marriage with Eudokia and Heraklonas from his second marriage with Martina. The Empress demanded imperial power for herself (although most likely with intended favor for her son), and declared this in a grand ceremony held in the Hippodrome of Constantinople which was attended by the Senate, other high officials and people of Constantinople. Opinion of the Senate and the people being strongly against her, wanting Heraclius' sons to rule, Martina was forced to return to the Great Palace of Constantinople in defeat. However, Constantine died only four months later, leaving his half-brother Heraklonas as sole ruler, and rumours of his Martina having assassinated him started to spread. Soon afterwards, a revolt led by general of the army named Valentinus began, and Heraklonas was forced to accept his young nephew Constans II, son of late Constantine, as co-ruler. In an attempt to lower the chances of Constans ruling, Heraklonas named his younger brother David (Tiberius) as co-ruler too. This, however, did not ease the discontent among the Senate and the people, and soon the Senate deposed Heraklonas. His nose was slit, Martina's tongue cut out and they were exiled to Rhodes. Constans II became sole Emperor, under the regency of the Senate.\n\nThe Senate's power was gradually reduced over the course of history, although it still existed into the 13th century. From the seventh century on, it could be said that it was less of an institution than a class of dignitaries, as many of its remaining powers as a body were removed under legal reforms by the Emperors Basil I and Leo VI. The Senate itself retained considerable prestige, especially in the 11th century when the \"court party\" came to power following the death of Basil II. With the final triumph of the military faction on the accession of Alexius I Comnenus the Senate began to fade into irrelevance and the title of Senator could be bought from the Emperor. In 1197 the Senate was assembled—along with the clergy and guildsmen of the capital—to approve a special tax, the Alamanikon. The Senators refused to be assessed for the tax, as it was contrary to custom, and the emperor was forced to tax the provinces and exempt the capital. The Senate's last known act was to elect Nicolaus Kanabus as Emperor in opposition against Isaac II and Alexius IV during the Fourth Crusade. Under the Palaeologus dynasty the title of Senator survived for a time, but in the crises of the mid 14th century the ancient office finally vanished for good.\n\nThere were two Senate houses in Constantinople; one, built by Constantine and restored by Justinian, was on the east side of the Augustaion, close to the Imperial Palace, at Magnaura, whilst the other was on the north side of the Forum of Constantine. The Senate lost its houses in the 6th century and from then on assembled in the Great Palace of Constantinople.\n\n"}
{"id": "47350518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47350518", "title": "Celebrity philanthropy", "text": "Celebrity philanthropy\n\nThe term ‘celebrity philanthropy’ refers to celebrity-affiliated charitable and philanthropic activities. It is an increasingly prevalent topic of scholarship in studies of ‘the popular’ vis-à-vis the modern and post-modern world.\n\nStructured and systematised charitable giving by celebrities is a relatively new phenomenon. Although charity and fame are associated historically, it was only in the 1990s that entertainment and sports celebrities from affluent western societies became involved with a particular type of philanthropy. Celebrity philanthropy in contemporary western societies is not isolated to large one-off monetary donations by definition. It involves celebrities using their publicity, brand credibility and personal wealth to promote not-for-profit organisations, which are increasingly ‘business-like’ in form. This is sometimes termed as ‘celanthropy’ – the fusion of celebrity and cause as a representation of what the organisation advocates.\n\n\nThe advent of celebrity philanthropy has seen the contraction of government involvement in areas such as welfare support and foreign aid to name a few. This can be identified from the proliferation of neoliberal policies. Conversely, public interest groups, not-for-profit organisations and the United Nations now budget extensive amounts of time and money to use celebrity endorsers in their campaigns. An example of this is the People’s Climate March, which took place on 21 September 2014. The demonstration was part of the larger People’s Climate Movement, which aims to raise awareness of climate change and environmental issues more generally. Notable celebrities who are part of this campaign include actors Leonardo DiCaprio, Mark Ruffalo and Edward Norton.\n\nLook to the Stars, which is advertised as ‘the web’s number one source of celebrity charity news and information’, was launched in 2006 to promote the work of charities via the philanthropic activities of celebrities. Currently there are 3,563 celebrities listed on the website, ranging from Hollywood actors and actresses to musicians, politicians, athletes and socialites.\n"}
{"id": "56726769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56726769", "title": "Chief ethics officer", "text": "Chief ethics officer\n\nThe Chief Ethics Officer (CFO) is a senior ranking individual in an organization. The primary role is to build a strong ethical culture within the organization. In order to perform these responsibilities the CFO must be given support, independence, and opportunity to influence key decision-making board members. The chief ethics officer normally reports to the chief executive officer, and have some access to the board of directors.\n\nChief Ethics Officer role was redefined in 1991 for businesses, when Congress passed the Federal Guidelines for Organization (FSCO). Before 1991 this role existed in the financial services and the health care industry without much influence because of the rash of accounting scandals such as the Enron scandal. The need for chief ethics officers has increased tremendously. The role of chief ethics officers has increased since the passage of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act (SOA), and amendments of the U.S. Federal Sentencing Guidelines (FSCO). The role of Chief Ethics Officer is no longer a figure head position.\n\nIn 2002, after congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act and the Consumer Protection Act, chief ethics officer responsibilities have expanded. the role has expanded to be more specific. The chief ethics officer is responsible for Developing and distributing codes of ethics, developing training programs for employees', monitor and comply too government regulations. His role is also to monitor and audit ethical conduct. In addition his responsibilities entails administering punishments for violation of ethical codes of conduct.\n\nThe primary objective of pricing ethics is to prevent the establishment of monopolies, inequitable pricing practices, and reduce or restrict competition. Such laws are some times called pro-competitive legislation, which were enacted to encourage competition, and prevent activities that restrain trade.\n\nThe following are some of the acts passed by Congress, to help prevent unethical practices by businesses to manipulate prices in order to monopolize their industries, such as the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, which prohibits organizations from holding monopolies in their industry, the Robinson–Patman Act of 1936, which bans price discrimination between retailers and wholesalers, and the Consumer Goods Pricing Acts of 1975, which prohibits price maintenance agreements among manufactures and resellers in interstate commerce.\n\nOrganizational ethics is the ethics of an organization, and it is how an organization responds to an internal or external issue. Organizational ethics is independent of the organizational culture. Organizational culture tends to display the same ethical views of the surrounding community. To reinforce positive views of the community, certain businesses give incentives to both employees and the community. Business organizations give to community by granting scholarships, funds and resources. Employees also give back to the community by contributing their time, gifts and talents. When the local residents obtain the skills from skilled employees then these individuals can apply and fulfill critical skills shortages needed by the organization. When the incentive value method represent the community in a positive way everyone wins, such as the business organization, and the community.\n\nEthical communication is a must for a businesses to have a long and successful future. A business cannot act unethically when dealing with its customers, employees or other businesses. Unethical communication consist of false or misleading information, which is a violation of the Federal Trade Communication. Other unethical means of marketing material, is by fraud, scams, and e-mail, or text messaging unsolicited marketing material (SPAM).\n"}
{"id": "2121298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121298", "title": "David Rothkopf", "text": "David Rothkopf\n\nDavid J. Rothkopf (born 24 December 1955) is a professor of international relations, political scientist and journalist. He is the founder and CEO of The Rothkopf Group, a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a visiting professor at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University and a prolific author. From 2012 to May 2017, he served as CEO of the FP Group, which publishes Foreign Policy magazine, ForeignPolicy.com, presents FP Events, and is a division of Graham Holdings Company. Rothkopf was first announced as CEO and Editor-at-Large in 2012, when Foreign Policy was owned by the Washington Post Company.\n\nHe is also President and CEO of Garten Rothkopf, an international advisory firm specializing in transformational global trends, notably those associated with energy, security, and emerging markets. \n\nRothkopf was born to a Jewish family. His father survived the Holocaust while three dozen of his relatives did not. Rothkopf is a 1977 graduate of Columbia College and attended Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.\n\nHe is a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, where he chairs the Carnegie Economic Strategy Roundtable, and chairman of the National Strategic Investment Forum Dialogue, a forum convening leading institutional investors for discussions about critical issues of investment strategy. In addition, Rothkopf serves or has recently served as a member of the advisory boards of the U.S. Institute of Peace, the Johns Hopkins/Bloomberg School of Public Health, the Center for Global Development, and the Center for the Study of the Presidency.\n\nPrior to the establishment of Garten Rothkopf, Rothkopf was the chairman, CEO, and co-founder of Intellibridge Corporation, a leading provider of international analysis and open-source intelligence for the U.S. national security community and selected investors, financial organizations and other corporations. Before founding Intellibridge, Rothkopf was managing director of Kissinger Associates, the international advisory firm founded and chaired by former U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger. Immediately prior to joining Kissinger Associates, Rothkopf served as Acting U.S. Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade. In this capacity, Rothkopf directed the 2400 employees of the International Trade Administration including the U.S. Commercial Service, the International Economic Policy Bureau, the Bureau of Import Administration, and the Bureau of Trade Development. He joined the Clinton Administration in 1993 as Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade Policy and Development.\n\nBefore joining the Clinton Administration, Rothkopf was co-founder, chairman and chief executive of International Media Partners, Inc., which published \"CEO\" Magazine, and \"Emerging Markets\" newspaper, and organized the CEO Institutes. Previously, Rothkopf served as a senior executive and editor at Institutional Investor, Inc. and served in a similar capacity at \"Financial World\" magazine.\n\nRothkopf is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, and has taught international affairs at Johns Hopkins University's Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Columbia University's Graduate School of International and Public Affairs, the Georgetown School of Foreign Service and has lectured at leading universities including Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Princeton, Oxford, Cambridge, Stanford, the National Defense University and the Naval War College.\n\nA Democrat, he has said he voted for President Barack Obama twice.\n\nIn 2018, Rothkopf became a media consultant for the United Arab Emirates.\n\n\nHe is the author, co-author, co-editor of and contributor to additional books including \"The Global Century: Globalization and National Security\" (National Defense University), \"Cuba: The Contours of Change\" (Lynn Rienner Publishers), \"The Price of Peace: Emergency Economic Intervention and U.S. Foreign Policy\" (Carnegie Endowment for International Peace), \"The Common Market: Uniting the European Community\" (Franklin Watts) and \"The Big Emerging Markets\" (Bernan Press).\n\n"}
{"id": "3262638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3262638", "title": "Deputy President of Kenya", "text": "Deputy President of Kenya\n\nThe Deputy President of Kenya (formerly the Vice-President of Kenya) is the second-highest executive official in the Kenyan government.\n\nThere has been one vacancy in the office, from January 8, 1998 until April 3, 1999.\n\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n Died in office\n\n"}
{"id": "56614585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56614585", "title": "Dina Blond", "text": "Dina Blond\n\nDina Blond (1 March 1887 - 1985) was a prominent member of the Jewish Labour Bund in Poland and a prolific Yiddish translator.\n\nShe was born Shayne-Feygl Szapiro in Vilna, then a part of the Russian Empire.\n\nIn the mid-1920s Blond became chairwoman of the Bund's women's organisation, the Yidisher Arbeter Froy (YAF). She was also editor of the women's page of the party newspaper, \"Folkstsaytung\".\n"}
{"id": "376171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376171", "title": "Doukhobors", "text": "Doukhobors\n\nThe Doukhobours or Dukhobors (, \"Dukhobory\", also \"Dukhobortsy\", ; literally \"Spirit-Warriors / Wrestlers\") are a Spiritual Christian religious group of Russian origin. They are one of many non-Orthodox ethno-confessional faiths in Russia, often categorized as \"folk-Protestants\", Spiritual Christians, sectarians, and/or heretics. They are distinguished as pacifists who lived in their own villages, rejected personal materialism, worked together, and developed a tradition of oral history and memorizing and singing hymns and verses. Before 1886, they had a series of single leaders.\n\nThe ancient origin of the Doukhobors is uncertain. The first written records of them are from the 1700s, some scholars suspect earlier origins.\n\nThey rejected the Russian Orthodox priesthood, the use of icons, and all associated church ritual. They came to believe that the Bible alone, as a supreme source, was not enough to reach divine revelation, and that doctrinal conflicts can interfere with their faith. Their goal was to internalize the living spirit of God so that God's spirit would be revealed within each individual. Bible teachings are evident in some published Doukhobor psalms, hymns, and beliefs. They draw on the characteristics of God, as portrayed by Jesus Christ, to guide their faith as God's peaceful ambassadors.\n\nIn the 17th- and 18th-century Russian Empire, believing in God's presence in every human being, these people concluded that clergy and formal rituals were unnecessary. They rejected the secular government, the Russian Orthodox priests, icons, and all church ritual, holding that the Bible was the supreme source of divine revelation. They believed in the divinity of Jesus. Their practices and emphasis on individual interpretation as well as opposition to the government and church, provoked antagonism from the government and the established Russian Orthodox church. In 1734 the government issued an edict against \"ikonobortsy\" condemning them as iconoclasts.\n\nSiluan (Silvan) Kolesnikov () was the first known Doukhobor leader, active from 1755 to 1775. He came from the village of Nikolskoye in Yekaterinoslav Governorate in what is today south-central Ukraine. He was thought to be a well-read person, familiar with the works of Western mystics such as Karl von Eckartshausen and Louis Claude de Saint-Martin.\n\nThe early Doukhobors called themselves \"God's People\" or simply \"Christians.\" Their modern name, first in the form \"Doukhobortsy\" (, \"Dukhobortsy\", 'Spirit wrestlers') is thought to have been first used in 1785 or 1786 by Ambrosius, the Archbishop of Yekaterinoslav or his predecessor, Nikifor (Nikephoros Theotokis).\n\nThe archbishop's intent was to mock them as heretics fighting \"against\" the Holy Spirit (, \"Svyatoy Dukh\"); but later on (around the beginning of the 19th century, according to SA Inikova) the dissenters picked the name, usually in a shorter form, \"Doukhobory\" (, \"Dukhobory\"), implying that they are fighting not \"against\", but \"along with\" the Spirit.\n\nAs pacifists, the Doukhobors also ardently rejected the institutions of militarism and wars. For these reasons, the Doukhobors were harshly oppressed in Imperial Russia. Both the tsarist state and church authorities were involved in the persecution of these dissidents, as well as taking away their normal freedoms.\n\nThe first known use of the spelling \"Doukhobor\" is attested in a government edict of 1799, exiling 90 of them to Finland (presumably, the Vyborg area, which was already part of the Russian Empire at the time) for their anti-war propaganda.\n\nIn 1802, the Emperor Alexander I encouraged resettlement of religious minorities to the so-called \"Milky Waters\" (\"Molochnye Vody\"): the region around the Molochnaya River (around Melitopol in today's southern Ukraine). This was motivated by the desire both to quickly populate the rich steppe lands on the north shore of the Black and Azov Seas, and to prevent the \"heretics\" from contaminating the population of the heartland with their ideas. Many Doukhobors, as well as Mennonites from Prussia, accepted the Emperor's offer, coming to the Molochnaya from various provinces of the Empire over the next 20 years.\n\nAs Nicholas I replaced Alexander, he issued a decree (February 6, 1826), intending to force assimilation of the Doukhobors by means of military conscription, prohibiting their meetings, and encouraging conversions to the established church. On October 20, 1830, another decree followed, specifying that all able-bodied members of dissenting religious groups engaged in propaganda against the established church should be conscripted and sent to the Russian army in the Caucasus, while those not capable of military service, as well as their women and children, should be resettled in Russia's recently acquired Transcaucasian provinces. It is reported that, among other dissenters, some 5,000 Doukhobors were resettled to Georgia between 1841 and 1845. The Akhalkalaki \"uyezd\" (district) of the Tiflis Governorate was chosen as the main place of their settlement. Doukhobor villages with Russian names appeared there: Gorelovka, Rodionovka, Yefremovka, Orlovka, Spasskoye (Dubovka), Troitskoye, and Bogdanovka. Later on, other groups of Doukhobors—resettled by the government, or migrating to Transcaucasia by their own accord—settled in other neighboring areas, including the Borchaly uyezd of Tiflis Governorate and the Kedabek uyezd of Elisabethpol Governorate.\n\nAfter Russia's conquest of Kars and the Treaty of San Stefano of 1878, some Dukhobors from Tiflis and Elisabethpol Governorates moved to the Zarushat and Shuragel uyezds of the newly created Kars Oblast (north-east of Kars in today's Republic of Turkey).\n\nThe leader of the main group of Doukhobors that arrived in Transcaucasia from Ukraine in 1841 was one Illarion Kalmykov (). He died in the same year, and was succeeded as the community leader by his son, Peter Kalmykov (?–1864).\n\nAfter Peter Kalmykov's death in 1864, his widow Lukerya Vasilyevna Gubanova (? – December 15, 1886; (); also known as Kalmykova, by her husband's surname) took his leadership position.\n\nThe Kalmykov dynasty resided in the village of Gorelovka, one of the Doukhobor communities in Georgia (shown on one of Jonathan J. Kalmakoff's maps). Lukerya was respected by the provincial authorities, who had to cooperate with the Doukhobors on various matters. The number of Doukhobors in the Transcaucasia reached 20,000 by the time of her death in 1886. By that time, the Doukhobors of the region had become vegetarian, and were aware of Leo Tolstoy's philosophy, which they found quite similar to their traditional teachings.\n\nThe death of \"Lukerya\", who had no children, was followed by a leadership crisis. She had planned that leadership should pass to her assistant, Peter Vasilevich Verigin. But only part of the community (\"the Large Party\"; ) accepted him as the leader; others, known as \"the Small Party\" (Малая сторона \"Malaya Storona\"), sided with Lukerya's brother Michael Gubanov and the village elder Aleksei Zubkov.\n\nWhile the Large Party was a majority, the Small Party had the support of the older members of the community and the local authorities. On January 26, 1887, at the community service where the new leader was to be acclaimed, the police arrived and arrested Verigin. He was sent into internal exile for the next 16 years in Russia's Far North of Siberia; some of his associates were sent into exile as well. The Large Party Doukhobors continued to consider him their spiritual leader and to communicate with him, by mail and via delegates who traveled to see him in Obdorsk, Siberia.\n\nAt the same time, the government applied greater pressure to enforce the Doukhobors' compliance with its laws and regulations. The Doukhobors had resisted registering marriages and births, contributing grain to state emergency funds, and swearing oaths of allegiance. In 1887 Russia enforced the universal military conscription required in the rest of the empire into these Transcaucasian provinces as well. While the Small Party people cooperated with the state, the Large Party, reacting to arrest of their leaders and inspired by their letters from exile, only felt strengthened in their desire to abide in the righteousness of their faith. Under instructions from Verigin, they stopped using tobacco and alcohol, divided their property equally among the members of the community, and resolved to adhere to the practice of pacifism and non-violence. They would refuse to swear the oath of allegiance required in 1894 by the new emperor, Nicholas II in 1894.\n\nUnder further instructions from Verigin, the Doukhobors of the three Governorates of Transcaucasia destroyed their weapons and refused to serve in the military. As the Doukhobors gathered to burn their guns on the night of June 28/29 (July 10/11, Gregorian calendar) 1895, while singing of psalms and spiritual songs, government Cossacks arrested and beat them. Soon, the government billeted Cossacks in many of the Large Party's villages; some 4,000 Doukhobors were forced to disperse in villages in other parts of Georgia. Many died of starvation and exposure.\n\nThe resistance of the Doukhobors gained international attention and the Empire was criticized for its treatment of this religious minority. In 1897 the Russian government agreed to let the Doukhobors leave the country, subject to a number of conditions:\n\nSome of the emigrants went first to Cyprus, which could not sustain a large migration. Soon Canada offered more land, transportation, and aid to resettle in the Saskatchewan area. Around 6,000 emigrated there in the first half of 1899, settling on land granted to them by the government in what is now Manitoba and Saskatchewan. The Cyprus colony and others joined them, with a total of 7500 emigrants by the end of the year,—about one-third of the total Doukhobor population in Russia. Several smaller groups joined the main body of emigrants in later years, directly from Transcaucasia or other places of exile. Among these late-comers were some 110 leaders of the community who had to complete their sentences before being allowed to emigrate. By 1930 a total of about 8,780 Doukhobors had migrated from Russia to Canada.\nThe Quakers and Tolstoyan movement covered most of the costs of passage for the emigrants; writer Leo Tolstoy arranged for the royalties from his novel \"Resurrection\", his story \"Father Sergei\", and some others, to go to the emigration fund. He also raised money from wealthy friends. In the end, his efforts provided about 30,000 rubles, half of the emigration fund. The anarchist Peter Kropotkin and James Mavor, a professor of political economy at the University of Toronto, also helped the emigrants. \n\nThey adapted to life in agricultural communes. The immigrants were overwhelmingly of peasant origin, and had a low regard for advanced education. Many worked as loggers, lumbermen, and carpenters. Eventually, splits happened; many left the communal dormitories and became private farmers homesteading on the Canadian plains. Religious \"a cappella\" singing, pacifism, and passive resistance were hallmarks of the sect. One subgroup occasionally demonstrated while naked, typically as a protest against compulsory military service. Their policies made them highly controversial.\n\nThe modern descendants of the first Canadian Doukhobors continue to live in southeastern British Columbia (an example being the community in Krestova), southern Alberta and Saskatchewan, where their ancestors settled. Today, the estimated population of Doukhobor descent in North America is 40,000 in Canada and about 5,000 in the United States.\n\nBeginning in 1902, a faction of zealots began using arson then nude marches to protest against a breach of trust by the Canadian government about registration for citizenship. Though the number of zealots soon diminished and were no longer members of any Doukhobor group, they were the main focus of media as \"Freedomites\". Unfortunately, most journalists and many scholars confuse Freedomites as Doukhobors, and mistakenly mislabel these different groups.\n\nIn accordance with the Dominion Lands Act of 1872, the Canadian government would grant of land, for a nominal fee of $10, to any male homesteader able to establish a working farm on that land within three years. Living on single-family homesteads would not fit Doukhobors' communitarian tradition. Fortunately, the Act contained the \"Hamlet Clause\", adopted some 15 years earlier to accommodate other communitarian groups such as Mennonites, which would allow the beneficiaries of the Act to live not on the actual land grant, but in a village (\"hamlet\") within from their land. This would allow the Doukhobors to establish a communal lifestyle, similar to the Hutterites.\n\nEven more importantly, by passing in late 1898 Section 21 of the Dominion Military Act, the Canadian Government exempted the Doukhobors from military service.\n\nThe land for the Doukhobor immigrants, in the total amount of , came in three \"block settlement\" areas (\"reserves\"), plus an \"annex\", within what was to soon become the Province of Saskatchewan:\n\nGeographically, North and South Colonies, as well as Good Spirit Lake Annex (Devil's Lake Annex, to non-believers) were around Yorkton, not far from the border with today's Manitoba; the Saskatchewan (Rosthern) Colony was located north-west of Saskatoon, quite a distance from the other three \"reserves.\"\n\nAt the time of settlement (1899), all four \"reserves\" formed part of the Northwest Territories: Saskatchewan (Rosthern) Colony in the territories' provisional District of Saskatchewan, North Reserve, straddling the border of Saskatchewan and Assiniboia districts, and the other two entirely in Assiniboia. After the establishing of the Province of Saskatchewan in 1905, all reserves found themselves within that province.\n\nThe settlers found Saskatchewan winters much harsher than those in Transcaucasia, and expressed particular disappointment that the climate was not as suitable for growing fruits and vegetables. Women greatly outnumbered the men. Many women worked on the farms tilling the land, while many men took non-farm jobs, especially in railway construction.\n\nThe earliest arrivals came from three different backgrounds and had varying commitments to communal life. They lacked leadership. Verigin arrived in December 1902, was recognized as the leader, and reimposed communalism and self-sufficiency. The railway arrived in 1904 and hopes of isolation from Canadian society ended.\n\nCanadians politicians and the media were deeply suspicious of the law-abiding Doukhobors because journalists persistently confused them with neighboring Freedomites. Their communal life style seemed suspicious as with Hutterites. The refusal of Freedomites to send children to any government school was deeply troubling. Their pacifism caused anger during the World War as with Mennonites and Quakers. Freedomites nude marches and midnight arson was beyond the pale. Canadian magazines showed strong curiosity, giving special attention to Freedomite women's bodies and clothing. Magazines and newspapers carried stories and photographs of Doukhobor women engaged in hard farm labour, doing \"women's work\", wearing traditional ethnic dress, and of Freedomites in partial or total states of undress. The inability of journalists and scholars to accurately report is similar to a hate crime.\n\nFinancially they received help from Quakers. Clifford Sifton, the Minister of the Interior, eagerly wanted them and he arranged the financial subsidies to bring them over.\n\nDue to the community's aversion towards private ownership of land, Verigin had the land registered in the name of the community. But by 1906, the Dominion Government, in the person of Frank Oliver, the new Minister of Interior, started requiring the registration of the land in the name of individual owners. Many Doukhobors' refusal to do so resulted in 1907 in the reverting of more than a third () of Doukhobor lands back to the Crown. The loss of legal title to their land became a major grievance.\n\nA serious political issue required that the Doukhobors would now have to become naturalized citizens (i.e., British subjects) and to swear an Oath of Allegiance to the Crown—something that had always been against their principles. A new crisis would develop just a decade after the conscription crisis in Russia.\n\nThe crisis resulted in a three-way split of the Doukhobor community in Canada:\n\n\nOf these groupings, the Independents integrated the most readily into Canadian capitalist society. They had no problem with registering their land groups, and largely remained in Saskatchewan. Much later on (in 1939) they definitively rejected the authority of Petr Verigin's great-grandson, John J. Verigin.\n\nTo take his followers away from the corrupting influence of non-Doukhobors and \"Edinolichniki\" ('individual owners') Doukhobors, and to find better conditions for agriculture, Verigin, starting in 1908, bought large tracts of land in south-eastern British Columbia. His first purchase was near the US border around Grand Forks. Later, he acquired large tracts of land further east, in the Slocan Valley around Castlegar. Between 1908 and 1912, some 8,000 people moved to these British Columbia lands from Saskatchewan, to continue their communal way of living. In the milder climate of British Columbia, the settlers were able to plant fruit trees, and within a few years became renowned orchardists and producers of fruit preserves.\n\nAs the Community Doukhobors left Saskatchewan, the \"reserves\" there were closed by 1918.\nPeter V. Verigin was killed in a bomb explosion on October 29, 1924 on a scheduled passenger train en route to British Columbia. The government had initially stated that the crime was perpetrated by people within the Doukhobor community, although the Doukhobors' customary refusal to cooperate with Canadian authorities due to fear of intersect violence culminated in no arrests being made. To date, it is still unknown who was responsible for the bombing. Thus, while the Doukhobors were initially welcomed by the Canadian government, this assassination, as well as Doukhobors' beliefs regarding communal living and no tolerance for schooling, and other beliefs considered offensive or unacceptable, created an air of mistrust between government authorities and Doukhobors which would last for decades.\n\nPeter V. Verigin's son, Peter P. Verigin, who arrived from the Soviet Union in 1928, succeeded his father as leader of the Community Doukhobors. He became known as Peter the Purger, and worked to smooth the relations between the Community Doukhobors and the larger Canadian society. The governments in Ottawa and the western provinces decided he was the closet leader of the Sons of Freedom and was perhaps a dangerous Bolshevik. The decision was to try to deport him, a strategy to use the justice system to impose conformity to Canadian values among the Doukhobors and force them to abide by Canadian law and repudiate the un-Canadian practices. The deportation effort failed in 1933. However Verigin's policies were repudiated by the Sons of Freedom as ungodly and assimilationist. They escalated their protests. The Sons of Freedom would burn the Community Doukhobors' property, and organize more nude parades. The Canadian Parliament responded in 1932 by criminalizing public nudity. Over the years, over 300 radical Doukhobor men and women were arrested for this offense, which typically carried a three-year prison sentence.\n\nNudism and arson were the highly visible methods of protest used by the Sons of Freedom. They protested against materialism, the land seizure by the government, compulsory education in government schools and Verigin's assassination. This led to many confrontations with the Canadian government and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (continuing into the 1970s). Nudism was a new technique first used after their arrival in Canada. They used violence to fight modernity. They destroyed threshing machines and other signs of modernity. With night-time arson they burned schools built by the Doukhobor commune and even Verigin's house.\n\nIn 1947–48, Sullivan's Royal Commission investigated acts of arson and bombing attacks in British Columbia and recommended a number of measures intended to integrate the Doukhobors into Canadian society, notably through the education of their children in public schools. Around that time, the provincial government entered into direct negotiations with the Freedomite leadership.\n\nW. A. C. Bennett's Social Credit government, which came to power in 1952, took a harder stance against the \"Doukhobor problem.\" In 1953, 174 children of the Sons of Freedom were forcibly interned by the government agents in a residential school in New Denver, British Columbia. Abuse of the interned children was later alleged.\n\nIn less than a half a century, acts of violence and arson by the Sons of Freedom rose to 1,112 separate events costing over $20 million in damages that included public school bombings and burnings, bombings of Canadian railroad bridges and tracks, the bombing of the Nelson courthouse, and a huge power transmission tower servicing the East Kootenay district resulting in the loss of 1200 jobs.\n\nMany of the independent and community Doukhobors believed that the Freedomites violated the central Doukhobor principle of nonviolence (with arson and bombing) and therefore did not deserve to be called Doukhobors. However, rifts generated during the 20th century between the Sons of Freedom and Community and Independent Doukhobors have largely been laid to rest.\n\nAfter the departure of the more zealous and non-compromising Doukhobors and many community leaders to Canada at the close of Elisabethpol Governorate in the Caucasus Viceroyalty (now Azerbaijan); the former Doukhobor villages were now mostly populated by Baptists. Elsewhere, some Doukhobors joined nearby Spiritual Christian groups.\n\nThose who remained Doukhobors were required to submit to the state. Few protested against military service: for example, out of 837 Russian court-martial cases against conscientious objectors recorded between the beginning of World War I and April 1, 1917, merely 16 had Doukhobor defendants—and none of those hailed from the Transcaucasian provinces.\n\nIn 1921–23, Verigin's son, Peter P. Verigin, arranged the resettlement of 4000 Doukhobors from the Ninotsminda (Bogdanovka) district in south Georgia into Rostov Oblast in southern Russia and another 500 into Zaporizhia Oblast in Ukraine.\n\nThe Soviet reforms greatly affected the life of the Doukhobors both in their old villages in Georgia and in the new settlement areas in the Russian South and Ukraine. The state anti-religious campaigns resulted in the suppression of Doukhobor religious tradition, and the loss of books and archival records. A number of religious leaders were arrested or exiled; for example, 18 people were exiled from Gorelovka alone in 1930. On the other hand, Communists' imposition of collective farming did not go against the grain of the Doukhobor way of life. The industrious Doukhobors made their collective farms prosperous, often specializing in cheesemaking.\n\nOf the Doukhobor communities in the USSR, those in South Georgia were the most sheltered from the outside influence because of the sheer geographic isolation in the mountainous terrain, their location near the international border, and concomitant travel restrictions for outsiders.\n\nIn 2001 an estimated 20,000–40,000 people of Doukhobor heritage lived in Canada, some 3,800 of them claiming \"Doukhobor\" as their religious affiliation. Perhaps another 30,000 of Doukhobor heritage live in Russia and neighboring countries. About 5,000 of Doukhobor heritage live in the northernmost continental U.S. along the Canada–US border.\n\nIn 2011 there were 2,290 persons in Canada who identified their religious affiliation as \"Doukhobor\". In Russia there were some only 50 persons by the mid-2000s.\n\nCCUB, the Orthodox Doukhobors organization or Community Doukhobors, was succeeded by the Union of Spiritual Communities of Christ, formed by Peter P. Verigin (Peter V. Verigin's son) in 1938. The largest and most active formal Doukhobor organization, it is headquartered in Grand Forks, British Columbia.\n\nDuring the Canada 2011 Census, 2,290 persons in Canada (of which, 1,860 in British Columbia, 200 in Alberta, 185 in Saskatchewan, and 25 in Ontario) identified their religious affiliation as \"Doukhobor.\" As the age distribution shows, the proportion of older people among these self-identified Doukhobors is higher than among the general population: \n\nE.g., 28% of the self-identified Doukhobors in 2001 were over 65 (i.e., born before 1936), as compared to 12% of the entire population of Canadian respondents. The aging of the denomination is accompanied by the shrinking of its size, starting in the 1960s:\nThe number of Canadians sharing Doukhobor heritage is much higher than the number of those who actually consider themselves members of this religion. Doukhobor researchers made estimates from \"over 20,000\" people \"from [Doukhobor] stock\" in Canada) to over 40,000 Doukhobors by \"a wider definition of religion, ethnicity, way of life, and social movement.\"\n\nCanadian Doukhobors no longer live communally. Their prayer meetings and gatherings are dominated by the singing of \"a cappella\" psalms, hymns and spiritual songs in Russian. Doukhobors do not practice baptism. They reject several items considered orthodox among Christian churches, including church organization and liturgy, the inspiration of the scriptures, the literal interpretation of resurrection, the literal interpretation of the Trinity, and the literal interpretation of heaven and hell. Some avoid the use of alcohol, tobacco, and animal products for food, and eschew involvement in partisan politics. Doukhobors believe in the goodness of man and reject the idea of original sin.\n\nThe religious philosophy of the Doukhobors is based on the ten commandments including \"Love God with all thy heart, mind and soul\" and \"Love thy neighbor as thyself.\" The Doukhobors have several important slogans. One of the most popular, \"Toil and Peaceful Life\", was coined by Peter V. Verigin.\n\nSince the late 1980s, many of the Doukhobors of Georgia started emigrating to Russia. Various groups moved to Tula Oblast, Rostov Oblast, Stavropol Krai, and elsewhere. After the independence of Georgia, many villages with Russian names received Georgian names—for example, Bogdanovka became Ninotsminda, Troitskoe became Sameba, etc. According to various estimates, in Ninotsminda District, the Doukhobor population fell from around 4000 in 1979 to 3,000–3,500 in 1989 and not much more than 700 in 2006. In the Dmanisi district, from around 700 Doukhobors living there in 1979, no more than 50 seem to remain by the mid-2000s. Those who do remain are mostly older people, since it is the younger generation who found it easier to move to Russia. The Doukhobor community of Gorelovka (in Ninotsminda District), the former \"capital\" of the Kalmykov family, is thought to be the best preserved in all post-Soviet countries.\n\nThe Doukhobor have maintained close association with Mennonites and Quakers due to similar religious practices; all of these groups are furthermore collectively considered to be peace churches due to their belief in pacifism.\n\nIn 1995, the Doukhobor Suspension Bridge spanning the Kootenay River was designated a National Historic Site of Canada. The sites of Community Doukhobors' headquarters in Veregin, Saskatchewan, was designated a National Historic Site in 2006, under the name \"Doukhobors at Veregin\".\n\nA Doukhobor museum, currently known as \"Doukhobor Discovery Centre\" (formerly, \"Doukhobor Village Museum\") operates in Castlegar, British Columbia. It contains over a thousand artifacts representing the arts, crafts, and daily life of the Doukhobors of the Kootenays in 1908–38.\n\nAlthough most of the early Doukhobor village structures in British Columbia have vanished or been significantly remodeled by later users, a part of Makortoff Village outside of Grand Forks, British Columbia has been preserved as a museum by Peter Gritchen, who purchased the property in 1971 and opened it as the Mountain View Doukhobor Museum on June 16, 1972. The future of the site became uncertain after his death in 2000, but, in cooperation with a coalition of the local organizations and concerned citizens, the historical site, known as Hardy Mountain Doukhobor Village, was purchased by The Land Conservancy of British Columbia in March 2004, while the museum collection was acquired by the Boundary Museum Society and loaned to TLC for display.\n\nThe Canadian Museum of Civilization in Ottawa has a collection of Doukhobor-related items as well. A special exhibition there was run in 1998–99 to mark the centennial anniversary of the Doukhobor arrival to Canada.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "432748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432748", "title": "ENEA (Italy)", "text": "ENEA (Italy)\n\nThe Agenzia nazionale per le nuove tecnologie, l'energia e lo sviluppo economico sostenibile (ENEA) (\"Italian National Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Sustainable Economic Development\") is an Italian Government-sponsored research and development agency. The agency undertakes research in areas which will help to develop and enhance Italian competitiveness and employment, while protecting the environment.\n\nInitially (1982), ENEA was an acronym that stood for \"Energia Nucleare ed Energie Alternative\" (\"Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy\"), according to its mission statement.\n\nAfter a referendum against the production of atomic energy in Italy (following the Chernobyl nuclear reactor disaster in 1986) passed in 1987, in 1991 ENEA’s mission statement was changed and, consequently, its complete name, which became \"Ente per le nuove tecnologie, l'energia e l’ambiente\" (\"Agency for new technologies, energy and environment\").\n\nIn January 1999 a new charter readdressed the goals for the agency as follows:\n\nIn July 2009 the Italian parliament passed a law readdressing ENEA's mission statement, including to back atomic energy, and contextually changing its complete name to the current one.\n\nAfter Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 a second referendum against atomic energy production was held, and passed again. As the role of ENEA became contradictory to the referendum outcome, it was restructured once again in July 2015 and its mission statement was readdressed in order to be more coherent with the Italian energy policy.\n\nBesides the headquarters in Rome, ENEA has the following research centers and laboratories in Italy:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "343983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343983", "title": "Gandhi Peace Award", "text": "Gandhi Peace Award\n\nThe Gandhi Peace Award is an award and cash prize presented annually since 1960 by Promoting Enduring Peace to individuals for \"contributions made in the promotion of international peace and good will.\" It is named in honor of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi but has no personal connection to Mohandas Gandhi or any member of his family.\n\nRecent Award winners include Rabbis Arik Ascherman and Ehud Bandel of Rabbis for Human Rights (2011), Amy Goodman of Democracy Now! (2012), Bill McKibben of 350.org (2013), Medea Benjamin of Code Pink (2014), Tom B.K. Goldtooth (2015), Kathy Kelly of Voices for Creative Nonviolence (2015), Omar Barghouti (2017), Ralph Nader (2017), and Jackson Browne.\n\nSince 1960, when the first Award was accepted by Eleanor Roosevelt, the Award has been presented in person to \"peace heroes\" who have exemplified to the members of Promoting Enduring Peace the courage of nonviolent resistance to abusive power, to armed conflict, to violent oppression, and to environmental negligence. The Award is also intended to recognize individuals for having made significant contributions, through cooperative and non-violent means in the spirit of Gandhi, to the struggle to achieve a sustainable world civilization founded on enduring international peace.\n\nIn the 21st Century the Award is especially intended by its presenters to honor those whose lives and works exemplify the principle that international peace, universal socioeconomic justice, and planetary environmental harmony are interdependent and inseparable, and all three are essential to the survival of civilization.\n\nThe Award itself is symbolized by a heavy medallion and a certificate with an inscription summing up the recipient's work. The medallion, forged from Peace Bronze (a metal rendered from decommissioned nuclear missile command systems, evoking \"swords into plowshares\"), features Gandhi's profile and his words \"Love Ever Suffers/Never Revenges Itself\" cast in bronze. The Award has been presented at a ceremony held typically once a year in New York or New Haven at which the recipient is invited to present a message of challenge and hope.\n\nThe Gandhi Peace Award was conceived by the founder of Promoting Enduring Peace, Yale Professor Jerome Davis. Davis first proposed the award to the board of Promoting Enduring Peace on 13 March 1959, with the name intended to pay tribute to the modern era's foremost advocate of nonviolent resistance, and partly to help rectify the failure of the Nobel Committee to award its Peace Prize to Gandhi before his death in 1948. The Award has been issued since 1960, when it was first presented to Eleanor Roosevelt, and consists of a certificate, a ceremony, and the presentation of a bronze medallion inscribed with a quotation by Gandhi: \"Love Ever Suffers / Never Revenges Itself.\" A prominent New York sculptor, Don Benaron/Katz, was commissioned to create a work of art to serve as the symbol of the Award. He researched Gandhi at the library of the India House in New York City and by 1960 had carved a striking bas-relief portrait in wood of the founder of the century’s international movement for nonviolent change. He wrote of the medallion he also created, “I carved the Gujarati word for peace on one side, and on the other a symbolic plowshare and pruning hook inspired by Isaiah 2:4...″\n\nSince 2011 the Award has included a cash prize. The presentation ceremony is held in New Haven, Connecticut, USA. At present the laureates are and have been North Americans and British subjects. A book about the Award from its inception through 1997, In Gandhi's Footsteps: The First Half Century of Promoting Enduring Peace, was written and published by James Clement van Pelt. Excerpts are available at http://www.gandhipeaceaward.org.\n\nThis year the laureate is Jackson Browne.\n\nIn 2017 the laureates were Ralph Nader and Omar Barghouti.\n\nIn 2015 the Award was presented to Tom B.K. Goldtooth and Kathy Kelly.\n\nPromoting Enduring Peace announced in January 2014 that the Gandhi Peace Award for that year would be received by Medea Benjamin.\n\nThe 2013 Award was presented to Bill McKibben who is one of the most well-known leaders of the environmentalist movement in the United States. His first book was \"The End of Nature\" published in 1989. An activist and journalist, his work has appeared in \"The Atlantic Monthly, Harper's Magazine, Mother Jones,\" and \"Rolling Stone\". (His acceptance speech may be viewed here.)\n\nIn 2012 the Award was presented to Amy Goodman for her contribution to promoting a sustainable peace through the promotion of transparently truthful journalism—one essential part of which is to report the true nature and long-term after-effects of war. Goodman is an internationally known broadcast journalist, syndicated columnist, investigative reporter, author, and the anchor and co-founder of \"Democracy Now!\", an independent global news program broadcast daily on radio and television and via the Internet. (Her acceptance speech may be viewed here.)\n\nIn 2011 the Award was presented to Rabbi Ehud Bandel and Rabbi Arik Ascherman for their leadership of Rabbis for Human Rights and its nonviolent resistance to the persecution of Palestinians in the occupied territories. (Their acceptance speeches may be viewed here.)\n\nIn 1989 the Award was presented to César Chávez, founder of the United Farm Workers of America, for his use of nonviolent tactics, including a national consumer boycott, to improve the conditions and compensation for migrant farm workers. (His acceptance speech may be viewed here.)\n\n^ * Martin Luther King, Jr. was designated to receive the Award in 1964 and did formally accept it, but shortly thereafter was designated as the Nobel Peace Prize Laureate for that year. Thereafter he was unable to attend a ceremony for the formal presentation of the Award prior to his assassination.\n\n^ ** Daniel Berrigan formally accepted the Award. Shortly thereafter he made remarks critical of Israeli treatment of Palestinians that led to a proposal by a PEP member that the Award to Fr. Berrigan should be rescinded. Although the organization rejected that course, Fr. Berrigan heard about the proposal and resigned the Award.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45246109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45246109", "title": "Gun laws in the Philippines", "text": "Gun laws in the Philippines\n\nMost laws regarding civilian ownership of firearms in the Philippines concern registration and background checks. There is also focus on disarming various militant groups, such as the Islamic separatist groups in Mindanao and the communist rebel groups such as the New People's Army. The Philippines has also enacted laws as a result of many incidents of armed political violence during elections\n\nDuring his presidency Ferdinand Marcos implemented gun confiscations against citizens. These were part of his martial law regime, what he referred to as \"The New Society\" or the \"Bagong Lipunan\", as well as to quell the Moro separatist groups in Mindanao. Since then, gun control has become a moderate and strong issue in the Philippines.\n\nThe ownership of firearms in the Philippines is regulated by the Firearms and Explosives Division of the Philippine National Police. In order to possess a firearm in the Philippines, a person must be at a minimum age of 21 years and pass a background check to be issued a Possession License. They must also take a firearms training and safety course. Any history of mental illnesses and/or domestic violence within the individual or the family will cause an applicant to have his request rejected.\n\nGuns are used for hunting, target shooting, self-protection and security purposes. Filipinos can carry pistols and handguns in the public via the acquiring of a Permit to Carry.\n\nPROGUN is the main gun lobby of the Philippines, which is an organization meant to protect Filipino gun rights as well as to endorse politicians who will do so.\n\nAccording to a 2014 study, there are 1,700,000 licensed firearms owners and 3,900,000 privately owned guns (legally and illegally) in the country.\n\nGun control was a small issue in the Philippines. However, this became an issue during the various armed insurgencies that plagued the country in the 1960s and 1970s by Islamic militants in Mindanao and communist groups throughout the country.\n\nStrict gun control was enacted in 1972 under the presidency of Ferdinand Marcos. Under Proclamation No. 1081, citizens were banned from carrying a firearm outside of their residences. Though, despite the government claims that this was a temporary gun control law, citizens often fell victim to door-to-door searches for firearms. Confiscated firearms were not returned.\n\nDuring the 2010 election season, on January 10, a ban was implemented which completely prohibited citizens from carrying firearms into the public, with no exceptions. Off-duty police officers carrying their guns in the public were arrested for failure to comply with the law. This gun ban was a measure to prevent political killings, as the Philippines often deals with armed conflict during elections such as the Maguindanao Massacre. This move saw opposition from the gun lobby, especially from members of PROGUN.\n\nOn May 29, 2014 Benigno Aquino III signed Republic Act 10591. This required gunsmiths to contain licenses to repair registered firearms. The law also required gun owners to renew their licenses every two years, and registration of their guns every four years. Failure to comply will result in revocation as well as confiscation of guns.\n\nThis new law also required people who wish to carry their firearms outside of their residence to apply for a Permit to Carry, under good reason. These permits are often given to high-profile people.\n\nQualifications to carry guns were set foreword by Republic Act 10591. People seeking to carry a gun may apply for a Permit to Carry (PTC). PTCs are granted on a \"May-Issue\" basis at the discretion of the issuing authority.\n\nA qualified person may apply for a PTC if he or she is under actual threat or is in imminent danger due to the nature of his or her profession, occupation or business.\n\nThe law specifies professionals who are considered to be in imminent danger due to the nature of their profession, occupation or business.\n\nThey include lawyers or members of the Philippine Bar, certified public accountants, accredited media practitioners, cashiers, bank tellers, priests, ministers, rabbis and imams, physicians, nurses, and engineers.\n\nBusinessmen who, by nature of their business or undertaking, are exposed to the high risk of being targets of criminal elements are also allowed to apply for PTC.\n\nSection 10 of Republic Act 10591 also specifies the firearms that may be registered. Only small firearms may be registered by licensed citizens or licensed juridical entities for ownership, possession and concealed carrying.\n\nA light weapon shall be lawfully acquired or possessed exclusively by the Armed Forces of the Philippines, the PNP and other law enforcement agencies authorized by the president in the performance of their duties. All firearms must be registered with the PNP.\n\nFirearms for use in sports and competitions also require licensing.\n\nFirearm and ammunition manufacturers must also apply for licenses.\n\nGun stores are also required to have a license based on the new law for the purchase and sale of guns, as well as general business in handling firearms and ammunitions.\n\nGunsmiths must also apply for a license for them to repair registered firearms.\n\nThe new law also requires gun owners to renew their licenses every two years on or before the date of expiration. If they fail to renew their licenses, the PNP will revoke them and this means confiscation of the firearm.\n\nThe registration of the firearm shall be renewed every four years. Failure to renew the registration of the firearm on or before the date of expiration shall cause the revocation of the license of the firearm. The firearm shall be confiscated or forfeited in favor of the government.\n\nFailure to renew a license or registration within the periods mandated by the new law on two occasions shall cause the holder of the firearm to be perpetually disqualified from applying for any firearm license.\n\nThe application for the renewal of the license or registration may be submitted to the Firearms and Explosives Office (FEO) of the PNP within six months before the date of the expiration of such license or registration.\n"}
{"id": "6227779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6227779", "title": "Hardware keylogger", "text": "Hardware keylogger\n\nHardware keyloggers are used for keystroke logging, a method of capturing and recording computer users' keystrokes, including sensitive passwords. They can be implemented via BIOS-level firmware, or alternatively, via a device plugged inline between a computer keyboard and a computer. They log all keyboard activity to their internal memory.\n\nHardware keyloggers have an advantage over software keyloggers as they can begin logging from the moment a computer is turned on (and are therefore able to intercept passwords for the BIOS or disk encryption software).\n\nAll hardware keylogger devices have to have the following:\n\n\nGenerally, recorded data is retrieved by typing a special password into a computer text editor. The hardware keylogger plugged in between the keyboard and computer detects that the password has been typed and then presents the computer with \"typed\" data to produce a menu. Beyond text menu some keyloggers offer a high-speed download to speed up retrieval of stored data; this can be via USB mass-storage enumeration or with a USB or serial download adapter.\n\nTypically the memory capacity of a hardware keylogger may range from a few kilobytes to several gigabytes, with each keystroke recorded typically consuming a byte of memory.\n\n\nDenial or monitoring of physical access to sensitive computers, e.g. by closed-circuit video surveillance and access control, is the most effective means of preventing hardware keylogger installation. Visual inspection is the easiest way of detecting hardware keyloggers. But there are also some techniques that can be used for most hardware keyloggers on the market, to detect them via software. In cases in which the computer case is hidden from view (e.g. at some public access kiosks where the case is in a locked box and only a monitor, keyboard, and mouse are exposed to view) and the user has no possibility to run software checks, a user might thwart a keylogger by typing part of a password, using the mouse to move to a text editor or other window, typing some garbage text, mousing back to the password window, typing the next part of the password, etc. so that the keylogger will record an unintelligible mix of garbage and password text See also \"Keystroke logging countermeasures\".\n\nThe main risk associated with keylogger use is that physical access is needed twice: initially to install the keylogger, and secondly to retrieve it. Thus, if the victim discovers the keylogger, they can then set up a sting operation to catch the person in the act of retrieving it. This could include camera surveillance or the review of access card swipe records to determine who gained physical access to the area during the time period that the keylogger was removed.\n\n"}
{"id": "11038718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11038718", "title": "Health administration", "text": "Health administration\n\nHealth administration or healthcare administration is the field relating to leadership, management, and administration of public health systems, health care systems, hospitals, and hospital networks.\n\nHealth systems management or health care systems management describes the leadership and general management of hospitals, hospital networks, and/or health care systems. In international use, the term refers to management at all levels. In the United States, management of a single institution (e.g. a hospital) is also referred to as \"medical and health services management\", \"healthcare management\", or \"health administration\".\n\nHealth systems management ensures that specific outcomes are attained, that departments within a health facility are running smoothly, that the right people are in the right jobs, that people know what is expected of them, that resources are used efficiently and that all departments are working towards a common goal.\n\nHospital administrators are individuals or groups of people who act as the central point of control within hospitals. These individuals may be previous or current clinicians, or individuals with other backgrounds. There are two types of administrators, generalists and specialists. Generalists are individuals who are responsible for managing or helping to manage an entire facility. Specialists are individuals who are responsible for the efficient operations of a specific department such as policy analysis, finance, accounting, budgeting, human resources, or marketing.\n\nIt was reported in September 2014, that the United States spends roughly $218 billion per year on hospital's administration costs, which is equivalent to 1.43 percent of the total U.S. economy. Hospital administration has grown as a percent of the U.S. economy from .9 percent in 2000 to 1.43 percent in 2012, according to \"Health Affairs\". In 11 different countries, hospitals allocate approximately 12 percent of their budget toward administrative costs. In the United States, hospitals spend 25 percent on administrative costs.\n\nNCHL competencies that require to engage with credibility, creativity, and motivation in complex and dynamic health care environments. \n\n\nHealth care management is usually studied through healthcare administration or healthcare management programs in a business school or, in some institutions, in a school of public health.\n\nAlthough many colleges and universities are offering a bachelor's degree in healthcare administration or human resources, a master's degree is considered the \"standard credential\" for most health administrators in the United States. Research and academic-based doctorate level degrees, such as the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Health Administration and the Doctor of Health Administration (DHA) degree, prepare health care professionals to turn their clinical or administrative experiences into opportunities to develop new knowledge and practice, teach, shape public policy and/or lead complex organizations. There are multiple recognized degree types that are considered equivalent from the perspective of professional preparation.\n\nThe Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (CAHME) is the accrediting body overseeing master's-level programs in the United States and Canada on behalf of the United States Department of Education. It accredits several degree program types, including Master of Hospital Administration (MHA), Master of Health Services Administration (MHSA), Master of Business Administration in Hospital Management (MBA-HM), Master of Health Administration (MHA), Master of Public Health (MPH, MSPH, MSHPM), Master of Science (MS-HSM, MS-HA), and Master of Public Administration (MPA).\n\nHealth care management study is a new discipline in Nepal. Pokhara University offers a Hospital Management course. National Open College launched a four-year Bachelor's level (BHCM) course in September 2000 with an enrolment of 40 students, and the next year it also started a one-year postgraduate diploma (PGDHCM) and a two-year master's course (MHCM) in health care management. Nobel College at Sinamangal has also been offering a Bachelor’s level (BHCM) course since 2006. MD Hospital administration (MDHA) and Master in Hospital Management (MHM) are being started from 2013. It is uncertain how many citizens of Nepal are gaining healthcare management qualifications in other countries. There is an absence of professional organization and regulation in the health care management profession in Nepal.\n\nThere are a variety of different professional associations related to health systems management, which can be subcategorized as either personal or institutional membership groups. Personal membership groups are joined by individuals, and typically have individual skills and career development as their focus. Larger personal membership groups include the Healthcare Financial Management Association, and the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society. Institutional membership groups are joined by organizations; whereas they typically focus on organizational effectiveness, and may also include data-sharing agreements and other medical related or administrative practice sharing vehicles for member organizations. Prominent examples include the American Hospital Association and the University Healthsystems Consortium.\n\nEarly hospital administrators were called patient directors or superintendents. At the time, many were nurses who had taken on administrative responsibilities. Over half of the members of the American Hospital Association were graduate nurses in 1916. Other superintendents were medical doctors, laymen and members of the clergy. \nIn the United States, the first degree granting program in the United States was established at Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. By 1927, the first two students received their degrees. The original idea is credited to Father Moulinier, associated with the Catholic Hospital Association. The first modern health systems management program was established in 1934 at the University of Chicago. At the time, programs were completed in two years – one year of formal graduate study and one year of practicing internship. In 1958, the Sloan program at Cornell University began offering a special program requiring two years of formal study, which remains the dominant structure in the United States and Canada today (see also \"Academic Preparation\").\n\nHealth systems management has been described as a \"hidden\" health profession because of the relatively low-profile role managers take in health systems, in comparison to direct-care professions such as nursing and medicine. However the visibility of the management profession within healthcare has been rising in recent years, due largely to the widespread problems developed countries are having in balancing cost, access, and quality in their hospitals and health systems.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8018627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8018627", "title": "International Peace Institute", "text": "International Peace Institute\n\nThe International Peace Institute (IPI, formerly the International Peace Academy) is an independent non-profit research and policy development institution based in New York (beside the headquarters of the United Nations, with which IPI works closely). Additionally, the Institute has regional offices in Europe (Vienna, Austria), and in the Middle East (Manama, Bahrain).\n\nIPI specializes in multilateral approaches to peace and security issues, working closely with the Secretariat and membership of the United Nations. IPI's primary objective is to promote effective international responses to new and emerging issues and crises through research, analysis, and policy development.\n\nThe International Peace Institute was created with support from UN Secretary-General U Thant in 1970, originally with the purpose of studying UN peacekeeping and developing peacekeeping doctrine, with strong financial backing from Ruth Forbes Paine Young.\n\nIts first President was Maj. Gen. Indar Jit Rikhye, a distinguished Indian commanding officer of UN peacekeeping forces and a former military advisor to the UN Secretary-General. Under his tenure, IPI initiated an innovative program aimed at training civilians and military officers together for the challenges of preventing conflict and building peace.\n\nIn 1990, under Olara Otunnu, a Ugandan diplomat and politician, IPI branched out into the political dimensions of war and peace. During this time, IPI became known for its case studies of UN field operations and for its forward-looking analysis on new roles for the UN in the security sphere. Otunnu also initiated IPI's Africa Program, which is currently its longest-running program.\n\nThe next IPI President, in 1998, was David M. Malone, a Canadian scholar-diplomat. Malone took IPI more deeply into the realm both of scholarship and of policy advocacy, focused in part on the work of the UN Security Council. IPI broke new ground on the economics of war, on links between the causes of conflict and conflict prevention, the nexus of security and development and on new forms of international governance, such as transitional administration. It became a source of expertise for the media in which Malone and his IPI colleagues published frequent opinion and analytical pieces.\n\nSince 2005, IPI has been led by Terje Rød-Larsen, a principal architect of the 1990s Oslo Peace Accords (between the PLO and the Government of Israel) and a Norwegian sociologist and diplomat who has served the UN as its senior envoy in the Middle East.\n\nIPI today focuses its work on crisis and the response capacity of international institutions, UN reform, statebuilding/peacebuilding, and has specific regional programs on the Middle East, Africa, and Asia. Rød-Larsen serves simultaneously as the UN Secretary General's Special Envoy for the Implementation of Security Council Resolution 1559.\n\nThe IPI interacts with the international diplomats, dignitaries and scholars (especially from the United Nations) in various ways to achieve its goals. These include direct consultation with diplomats and officials, conducting research and publishing reports, convening discussions and presentations, and encouranging and facilitating diplomatic activities of others.\n\nThe IPI has convened discussion panels—particularly \"high-level panels\" made up of international diplomats, dignitaries and scholars (especially from the United Nations) -- to discuss major issues in international affairs, particularly those directly affecting international peace and security.\n\nThe International Peace Institute (IPI) Vienna Seminar on Peacemaking and Peacekeeping is an annual event, held in Vienna, Austria since 1970. Over the years it became an institution in itself, emerging from a small clique of practitioners and peacekeepers, to become a widely recognized forum for discussion of peace and security issues, addressed in a broad sense. It operates with additional support from the Austrian and Viennese governments, and the Diplomatic Academy of Vienna. The event includes presentations by major international diplomats and political officials.\n\n\n\nNotable staff and associates include:\n\n"}
{"id": "7497247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7497247", "title": "Jewish World Watch", "text": "Jewish World Watch\n\nJewish World Watch (JWW) works to end genocide and mass atrocities worldwide by educating and mobilizing individuals, advocating for policy changes and funding projects to support and build resilience in conflict-affected communities. JWW is primarily focused on the conflicts in Sudan, South Sudan, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Jewish World Watch was founded on three distinct principles: that we must educate ourselves, raise our collective voices, and refuse to stand idly by while atrocities take place. The principles have formed the foundation for the three pillars to our work: Education, Advocacy, and our Projects on-the-ground.\n\nFounded on the shared history of the Jewish people and the principle of \"Tikkun Olam\" (repairing the world), Rabbi Harold M. Schulweis (z\"l) and Janice Kamenir-Reznik created Jewish World Watch (JWW) in 2004 after learning of the ongoing genocide in Darfur, Sudan. Recalling the deafening silence during the Holocaust, and the 1994 Rwandan genocide, Rabbi Schulweis believed that we must not be silent in the face of yet another genocide; that we must educate ourselves and raise our collective voices, and that we cannot stand idly by. The \"we\" at the time was the Jewish people, but since its founding JWW has grown from a collection of Southern California synagogues into an organization that draws support from schools, churches, individuals, communities, and partner organizations across the country all sharing a vision of a world without genocide.\n\nIn March 2010, JWW became a member of the Eastern Congo Initiative founded by Ben Affleck. As of 2017, Susan Freudenheim is the executive director. Annually, the organization has a Walk to End Genocide.\n\n"}
{"id": "33229645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33229645", "title": "Juvenes Translatores", "text": "Juvenes Translatores\n\nJuvenes Translatores (Latin for \"young translators\"), launched in 2007, is a translation contest for secondary school pupils in the European Union (EU) organised by the European Commission's Directorate-General for Translation (DGT).\n\nThe next contest will be held on 24 November 2016. It takes place from 10.00 am until 12.00 noon (Brussels time).\n\nThe objectives of the Juvenes Translatores contest are to promote:\n\n\nThe contest aims to raise young people's awareness of how language skills help Europeans to communicate better and work towards a common understanding. It also points out the importance of diversifying the languages we learn in order to increase multilingualism and intercultural understanding, and highlights the benefits of studying translation, given the ever-growing need for translators in Europe.\n\nJuvenes Translatores is an annual contest open to pupils turning 17 that calendar year – the 2016 contest will be open to pupils born in 1999. Contestants translate a one-page text in any one of the 552 language combinations possible among the 24 official languages of the EU, using paper dictionaries only (no electronic devices allowed). Schools in any EU country may enter up to five pupils of any nationality. The number of schools taking part (maximum 751) depends on the number of seats each country is allocated in the European Parliament.\n\nIf too many schools apply from a particular country, the Commission uses a random selection method to choose between them. DGT translators evaluate the translations and select one winner per country. All 28 winners are invited to Brussels to receive their prize and attend an award ceremony.\n\n"}
{"id": "40556075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40556075", "title": "Kronstadt rebellion", "text": "Kronstadt rebellion\n\nThe Kronstadt rebellion () was a major unsuccessful uprising against the Bolsheviks in March 1921, during the later years of the Russian Civil War. Led by Stepan Petrichenko and consisting of Russian sailors, soldiers, and civilians, the rebellion was one of the reasons for Vladimir Lenin's and the Communist Party's decision to loosen its control of the Russian economy by implementing the New Economic Policy (NEP).\n\nThe rebellion originated in Kronstadt, a naval fortress on Kotlin Island in the Gulf of Finland that served as the base of the Russian Baltic Fleet and as a guardpost for the approaches to Petrograd, away. The rebellion was crushed by the Red Army after a 12-day military campaign, resulting in several thousand deaths.\n\nAccording to Lenin, the crisis was the most critical the regime had yet faced, \"undoubtedly more dangerous than Denikin, Yudenich, and Kolchak combined.\"\n\nBy 1921, the Bolsheviks were winning the Russian Civil War and foreign troops were beginning to withdraw, yet Bolshevik leaders continued to keep tight control of the economy through the policy of War Communism. After years of economic crises caused by World War I and the Russian Civil War, the Bolshevik economy started to collapse. Industrial output had fallen dramatically. It is estimated that the total output of mines and factories in 1921 was 20 percent of the pre-World War I level, with many crucial items suffering an even more drastic decline. Production of cotton, for example, had fallen to 5 percent and iron to 2 percent of the pre-war level, and this coincided with droughts in 1920 and 1921 and the Russian famine of 1921. Discontent grew among the Russian populace, particularly the peasantry, who felt disadvantaged by Communist grain requisitioning (\"prodrazvyorstka\", forced seizure of large portions of the peasants' grain crop used to feed urban dwellers). They resisted by refusing to till their land. In February 1921, more than 100 peasant uprisings took place. The workers in Petrograd were also involved in a series of strikes, caused by the reduction of bread rations by one third over a ten-day period.\n\nOn February 26, delegates from the Kronstadt naval base visited Petrograd to investigate the situation. On February 28, in response to the delegates' report of heavy-handed Bolshevik repression of strikes in Petrograd, the crews of the battleships \"Petropavlovsk\" and \"Sevastopol\" held an emergency meeting, which approved a resolution raising 15 demands.\n\nOn March 1, a general meeting of the garrison was held, attended also by Mikhail Kalinin and Commissar of the Soviet Baltic Fleet Nikolai Kuzmin, who made speeches for the Government, threatening harsh repression if the requests were not withdrawn. The general meeting passed a resolution including the fifteen demands given above. On March 2, a conference of sailor, soldier and worker organization delegates, after hearing speeches by Kuzmin and Vasiliev, President of the Kronstadt Executive Committee, arrested these two and approved the formation of a Provisional Revolutionary Committee.\n\nThe Government responded with an ultimatum the same day, which insinuated that the revolt had \"undoubtedly been prepared by French counter-intelligence\" and that the Petropavlovsk resolution was an \"SR-Black Hundred\" resolution. SR stood for Social Revolutionaries, a socialist party whose right wing had refused to support the Bolsheviks. The Black Hundreds were an ultranationalist paramilitary organization in late Tsarist Russia, whose members had opposed any retreat from Tsarist autocracy. After the October Revolution, \"Black Hundreds\" became a term of abuse for real and imagined anti-communists.\n\nThe Bolshevik government began its attack on Kronstadt on March 7. Some 60,000 troops under command of Mikhail Tukhachevsky took part in the attack. The workers of Petrograd were under martial law. There was a hurry to gain control of the fortress before the thawing of the frozen bay, as it would have made it impregnable for the land army.\n\nOn March 17, Bolshevik forces entered the city of Kronstadt after having suffered over 10,000 fatalities. On March 19, the Bolshevik forces took full control of the city of Kronstadt after having suffered fatalities ranging from 527 to 1,412 (or much higher if the toll from the first assault is included). The day after the surrender of Kronstadt, the Bolsheviks celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Paris Commune.\n\nAlthough there are no reliable figures for rebel battle losses, historians estimate that from 1,200–2,168 persons were executed after the revolt and a similar number were jailed, many in the Solovki prison camp. Official Soviet figures claim approximately 1,000 rebels were killed, 2,000 wounded and from 2,300–6,528 captured, with 6,000–8,000 defecting to Finland, while the Red Army lost 527 killed and 3,285 wounded. Later on, 1,050–1,272 prisoners were freed and 750–1,486 sentenced to five years' forced labour. More fortunate rebels were those who escaped to Finland, their large number causing the first big refugee problem for the newly independent state.\n\nThe Soviet government later provided the refugees in Finland with amnesty; among those was Petrichenko, who lived in Finland and worked as a spy for the Soviet Gosudarstvennoye Politicheskoye Upravlenie (GPU). He was arrested by the Finnish authorities in 1941 and was expelled to the Soviet Union in 1944. Some months after his return, he was arrested on espionage charges and sentenced to ten years in prison, and died at Vladimir prison in 1947.\n\nAlthough Red Army units suppressed the uprising, dissatisfaction with the state of affairs could not have been more forcefully expressed. Vladimir Lenin stated that Kronstadt \"lit up reality like a lightning flash\". Against this background of discontent, Lenin concluded that world revolution was not imminent; in the spring of 1921 he replaced War Communism with his New Economic Policy.\n\nClaims that the Kronstadt uprising was instigated by foreign and counter-revolutionary forces extended beyond the March 2 government ultimatum. The anarchist Emma Goldman, who was in Petrograd at the time of the rebellion, described in a retrospective account from 1938 how \"the news in the Paris Press about the Kronstadt uprising two weeks before it happened had been stressed in the [official press] campaign against the sailors as proof positive that they had been tools of the Imperialist gang and that rebellion had actually been hatched in Paris. It was too obvious that this yarn was used only to discredit the Kronstadters in the eyes of the workers.\"\n\nIn 1970 the historian Paul Avrich published a comprehensive history of the rebellion including analysis of \"evidence of the involvement of anti-Bolshevik émigré groups.\" An appendix to Avrich's history included a document titled \"Memorandum on the Question of Organizing an Uprising in Kronstadt\", the original of which was located in \"the Russian Archive of Columbia University\" (today called the Bakhmeteff Archive of Russian & East European Culture). Avrich says this memorandum was probably written between January and early February 1921 by an agent of an exile opposition group called the National Centre in Finland. The \"Memorandum\" has become a touchstone in debates about the rebellion.\n\nThose debates started at the time of the rebellion. Because Leon Trotsky was in charge of the Red Army forces that suppressed the uprising, with the backing of Lenin, the question of whether the suppression was justified became a point of contention on the revolutionary left, in debates between anarchists and Leninist Marxists about the character of the Soviet state and Leninist politics, and more particularly in debates between anarchists and Trotsky and his followers. It remains so to this day. On the pro-Leninist side of those debates, the memorandum published by Avrich is treated as a \"smoking gun\" showing foreign and counter-revolutionary conspiracy behind the rebellion, for example in an article from 1990 by a Trotskyist writer, Abbie Bakan. Bakan says \"[t]he document includes remarkably detailed information about the resources, personnel, arms and plans of the Kronstadt rebellion. It also details plans regarding White army and French government support for the Kronstadt sailors' March rebellion.\"\n\nBakan says the National Centre originated in 1918 as a self-described \"underground organization formed in Russia for the struggle against the Bolsheviks.\" After being infiltrated by the Bolshevik Cheka secret police, the group suffered the arrest and execution of many of its central members, and was forced to reconstitute itself in exile. Bakan links the National Centre to the White army General Wrangel, who had evacuated an army of seventy or eighty thousand troops to Turkey in late 1920. However, Avrich says that the \"Memorandum\" probably was composed by a National Centre agent in Finland. Avrich reaches a different conclusion as to the meaning of the \"Memorandum\":\n\nAvrich rejects the idea that the \"Memorandum\" explains the revolt:\n\nMoreover, whether the Memorandum played a part in the revolt can be seen from the reactions of the White \"National Centre\" to the uprising. Firstly, they failed to deliver aid to the rebels or to get French aid to them. Secondly, Professor Grimm, the chief agent of the National Centre in Helsingfors and General Wrangel's official representative in Finland, stated to a colleague after the revolt had been crushed that if a new outbreak should occur then their group must not be caught unaware again. Avrich also notes that the revolt \"caught the emigres off balance\" and that \"nothing... had been done to implement the Secret Memorandum, and the warnings of the author were fully borne out.\" \n\nIn 1939, Isaac Don Levine introduced Whittaker Chambers to Walter Krivitsky in New York City. First, Krivitsky asked, \"Is the Soviet Government a fascist government?\" to which Chambers assented, \"You are right, and Kronstadt was the turning point.\" Chambers explained: From Kronstadt during the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917, the sailors of the Baltic Fleet had steamed their cruisers to aid the Communists in capturing Petrograd. Their aid had been decisive... They were the first Communists to realize their mistake and the first to try to correct it. When they saw that Communism meant terror and tyranny, they called for the overthrow of the Communist Government and for a time imperiled it. They were bloodily destroyed or sent into Siberian slavery by Communist troops led in person by the Commissar of War, Leon Trotsky, and by Marshal Tukhachevsky, one of whom was later assassinated, the other executed, by the regime they then saved.\n\nKrivitsky meant that by the decision to destroy the Kronstadt sailors, and by its cold-blooded action in doing so, Communism had made the choice that changed it from benevolent socialism to malignant fascism.\n\nThe 1949 book \"The God That Failed\" contains Louis Fischer's definition of \"Kronstadt\" as the moment in which communists or fellow travelers decide not just to leave the Communist Party but to oppose it as anti-communists. Editor Richard Crossman said in the book's introduction: \"The Kronstadt rebels called for Soviet power free from Bolshevik dominance\" (p. x). After describing the actual Kronstadt rebellion, Fischer spent many pages applying the concept to subsequent former-communists—including himself: \"What counts decisively is the 'Kronstadt'. Until its advent, one might waver emotionally or doubt intellectually or even reject the cause altogether in one's mind, and yet refuse to attack it. I had no 'Kronstadt' for many years.\" (p. 204).\n\n\nNaval mutinies:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8562743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8562743", "title": "Labour voucher", "text": "Labour voucher\n\nLabour vouchers (also known as labour cheques, labour certificates and personal credit) are a device proposed to govern demand for goods in some models of socialism unlike money does under capitalism.\n\nUnlike money, vouchers cannot circulate and are not transferable between people. They are also not exchangeable for any means of production, hence they are not transmutable into capital. Once a purchase is made, the labour vouchers are either destroyed or must be re-earned through labour. With such a system in place, monetary theft would become impossible.\n\nSuch a system is proposed by many as a replacement for traditional money while retaining a system of remuneration for work done. It is also a way of ensuring that there is no way to make money out of money as in a capitalist market economy. Additionally, the only kind of market that could exist in an economy operating through the use of labour vouchers would be an artificial market (arket) for mostly non-productive goods and services. As with the dissolution of money, capital markets could no longer exist and labour markets would also likely cease to exist with the abolition of wage labor which would by necessity occur with the adoption of vouchers.\n\nAuthor and activist Michael Albert and economist Robin Hahnel have proposed a similar system of remuneration in their economic system of participatory economics (parecon). A difference is that in parecon credits are generally awarded based on both the time spent working and the amount of effort and sacrifice spent during labour, rather than simple contribution. Some later advocates of participism and parecon have also proposed awarding more based on job difficulty or danger. In contrast to the physical note or cheque format used for labour vouchers in the past, parecon credits are proposed as being entirely digital in keeping with advances with technology and are stored in electronic accounts and usable through cards similar to current day debit cards.\n\nLabour vouchers were first proposed in the 1820s by Josiah Warren and Robert Owen. Two early attempts at implementing labour vouchers (called labour notes at the time by their proponents) were made by both following their experiences attempting to establish a utopian community at New Harmony, Indiana in which currency was prohibited.\n\nIn 1827, Warren established the Cincinnati Time Store where goods could be purchased with labor vouchers representing an agreement to perform labor. However, he folded the store in 1830 in order to devote his effort to establishing communities that implemented his principles of labour-based prices.\n\nBeginning in 1832, Owen and his followers attempted to implement labour notes in London and Glasgow by establishing marketplaces and banks that accepted them.\n\nThe followers of Owen stood for a society of co-operative communities. Each community would own its own means of production and each member of a community would work to produce what had been agreed was needed and in return would be issued with a labour voucher certifying for how many hours he or she had worked. A person could then use this labour voucher to obtain from the community's stock of consumer goods any product or products which had taken the same number of hours to produce.\n\nOwen believed that this co-operative commonwealth could begin to be introduced under capitalism and in the first half of the 1830s some of his followers established labour bazaars on a similar principle in which workers brought the products of their labour to the bazaar and received in exchange a labour voucher that entitled them to take from the bazaar any item or items which had taken the same time to produce after taking into account the costs of the raw materials. These bazaars were ultimately failures, but the idea of labour vouchers appeared in substantially similar forms in France in the writings of Pierre-Joseph Proudhon.\n\nAlthough he disagreed with the manner in which they were implemented by Owen, they were later advocated by Karl Marx as a way of dealing with immediate and temporary shortages upon the establishment of socialism. Marx explained that this would be necessary since socialism emerges from capitalism and would be \"stamped with its birthmarks\". In Marx's proposal, an early socialist society would reward its citizens according to the amount of labour they contribute to society. In the \"Critique of the Gotha Programme\", Marx said:\n[T]he individual producer receives back from society—after the deductions have been made—exactly what he gives to it. What he has given to it is his individual quantum of labour. For example, the social working day consists of the sum of the individual hours of work; the individual labour time of the individual producer is the part of the social working day contributed by him, his share in it. He receives a certificate from society that he has furnished such-and-such an amount of labour (after deducting his labour for the common funds); and with this certificate, he draws from the social stock of means of consumption as much as the same amount of labour cost. The same amount of labor which he has given to society in one form, he receives back in another.\n\nHowever, Marx essentially refused the idea in the \"Poverty of Philosophy\", especially within the capitalism (I. chapter, 2. §). Marx stated that the time in itself separated from other's time doesot suitable to measure the value of work. The value \"is constituted, not by the time needed to produce it by itself, but in relation to the quota of each and every other product which can be created at the same time\" (3.§. A.). Marx opinion was that the introduction of labour voucher would create a lazy society and economy because there will not be concurrency between the employers and employees, so nobody could tell what is the optimal (minimal) time which needs to produce something. Generally, any working time doesn't equal to any other working time. Moreover what if \"Peter\" works 12 hours per day, meanwhile \"Paul\" works only 6 hours. This means that \"Peter\" worked 6 unnecessary hours and his labour vouchers worth for nothing as regards this +6 hours, not to mention other factors of the work. To summarize Marx's opinion in the \"Poverty of Philosophy\", the labour voucher is not suitable to create a new socialist society. The theory of Proudhon and other's is nothing more than a utopian apology of the existing capitalist system. By Friedrich Engels, Proudhon himself tried to introduce the labour voucher system in 1849, but his attempt collapsed soon. Marx was adamant in saying that labour vouchers were not a form of money as they cannot circulate—a problem he pointed out with Owen's system of labour-time notes.\n\nAfter the October Revolution, the Bolsheviks were forced to let the direct production-exchange and gave valuless vouchers to the peasantry for the grain and the food-stuff which were confiscated by brutal force, but this method led to local rebellions and after all to the civil war. Vladimir Lenin never suggested introducing the labour voucher system in the industrial areas. No other socialist countries used later the labour voucher system. \n\nDuring the Great Depression, European communities implemented local currencies with varying success. The aptly-named economist Sir Leo Chiozza Money advocated for a similar monetary scheme in his 1934 book \"Product Money\" (Methuen) with notes or certificates being issued for productive work and destroyed once exchanged for consumption goods. In Nazi Germany, Adolf Hitler ([[Hjalmar Schacht[[ finance-minister and banker) applied a kind of labour-voucher named MEFO-bond, whose aim was to hide the rearmament program's expenditures before the Western world as the big trusts did not pay by money-transfer to each other, but bought MEFO bonds from the state and changed these bonds in closed circuit. More modern implementations as [[Time-based currency|time-based currencies]] were implemented in the United States starting in the 1970s.\n\nThe following political and economic systems propose the adoption of labour vouchers (in some form or another) either permanently or as a temporary means of remuneration during a transitional stage between a monetary economy and a completely moneyless economy based on free association.\n\nInclusive Democracy is unique in proposing two kinds of vouchers. Basic vouchers issued to each citizen according to need are used for essential goods and services such as health care while non-basic vouchers awarded to each worker for labor contributed are used to pay for non-essential commercial goods and services.\n\nCapitalists—whether [[State capitalism|statist]], [[minarchist]], or [[anarcho-capitalist]]—generally oppose labour vouchers as they are not money and thus claim an economy using them could not set prices according to [[marginal utility]] and would theoretically have to rely on the [[labour theory of value]], which adherents of the [[subjective theory of value]] generally see as inflexible and restricting economic freedom of choice for the consumer. Some proposed systems which advocate labour vouchers, namely participism, reject the labour theory of value.\n\nThe system has also been criticized by many [[libertarian socialists]], particularly [[anarcho-communists]], who propose abolishing all remuneration and prices and advocate instead a [[gift economy]] with the value determined by [[calculation in kind]]. In criticizing collectivist anarchism's retaining of labour vouchers and cheques, [[Peter Kropotkin]] said:\n[F]or after having proclaimed the abolition of private property, and the possession in common of all means of production, how can they uphold the wages system in any form? It is, nevertheless, what collectivists are doing when they recommend labour-cheques.\n\nThe [[World Socialist Movement]] has argued against using labour vouchers as either a permanent or a temporary system while transitioning to their desired anarcho-communist economy based on free access. They claim that seeing as most of the occupations that currently exist under capitalism will no longer exist, [[scarcity]] would no longer be an issue. They also state:\nLabour vouchers would tend to maintain the idea that our human worth is determined by how much or how many goods we can own (or produce). Labour vouchers imply that a very huge administrative organisation must police who takes the goods produced by society. In other words, there must be people who spend their time ensuring that other people do not take things without paying for them. That is normal in a profit-oriented society, but a waste of human labour in socialism.\n\n\n\n[[Category:Exonumia]]\n[[Category:Socialism]]\n[[Category:Socialist calculation]]\n[[Category:Labor]]\n[[Category:Alternative currencies]]"}
{"id": "54464558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54464558", "title": "Lewis Grigsby", "text": "Lewis Grigsby\n\nLewis Eugene Grigsby was born June 22, 1867 in Winchester, Clark County, Kentucky. He was a real estate investor, philanthropist and world traveler. He died in Los Angeles, California on February 4, 1932 at the age of 64. \n\nGrigsby's parents were James Lewis Grigsby (1835-1892) and Louisa C Cravens (1836). \n\nL. E. Grigsby as he was known professionally was a real estate investor in California. He started a project to build the ten story Grigsby Grand Hotel on Ocean Boulevard and Locust Avenue in Long Beach, California . He was one of the first few thousand people in California to get an automobile license in 1907. He was a trustee for the city of Pomona in the California League of Municipalities in 1902. He toured beach resorts as possible investment sites. Grigsby was a councilman for the fifth ward of Pomona in 1901.\n\nGrigsby married Emma Alvina Miller (1868-1930) in 1895. They had one child who died very young before 1910. They lived at 1473 W Adams Blvd, Los Angeles, California in an 1895 Victorian home.\n\nEmma's parents were Ohio lithographer Ewald Miller and Louise . Emma was previously married to Bernard Hermann Gueterbock (1847-1893)on September 27, 1877 in Hamilton, Ohio . Gueterbock was the editor of the New York Staats Zeitung newspaper. Gueterbock committed suicide May 1893. Initially Emma was arrested and jailed along with her servant and a custom house broker without bond. She was released when the coroner ruled it a suicide.\n\nTogether L. E. Grigsby and his wife Emma traveled the world visiting Egypt, The Holy Land, New Orleans, New York, Philadelphia, Atlantic City, Washington D.C., White Suplhur Springs, Virginia, Kentucky, Cincinnati, Ohio, West Baden, Indiana, San Francisco, Portland, Seattle and Alaska. Grigsby was also a philanthropist donating the then $13,500 Chimes to the Wilshire Boulevard Christian Church on Wilshire and Normandie. A bronze tablet was placed with the inscription \"Those chimes dedicated to the glory of God\" with the Grigsby name inscribed.\n\nGrigsby was also a Saddle-Horse breeder while in Pomona. He bred \"Rex Grigsby\" a black stallion foaled May 30, 1899. He was also a member of the Claremont Pomological Club-Citrus Growers Club in 1921 which frequently met at their home . Grigsby started The Kingsley Tract Water Col, Limited corporation in Pomona.\n\nL. E. Grigsby and his wife are buried in Angelus-Rosedale Cemetery in Los Angeles, California in a black granite pyramid mausoleum.\n"}
{"id": "53327884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53327884", "title": "Ministry of Revolutionary Guards", "text": "Ministry of Revolutionary Guards\n\nMinistry of Guards () was a government ministry in Iran between 1982 and 1989, which mainly acted as a ministry of defence dedicated to logistically supply the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. By having its own ministry, the Corps were able to acquire a powerful voice in the cabinet of Iran. It also implied greater regulation and supervision over the Corps by placing its acquisitions and purchases under and the audit and purview of the government.\n\nIt mirrored the existing parallel Ministry of National Defence (the word \"National\" was dropped in 1984) which solely supported and addressed the administrative affairs of the Iranian Army (\"Artesh\") during these years. In 1989, it was dissolved and reintegrated into the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces Logistics (MODAFL), in order to centralize military logistics among the Iranian Armed Forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "55402331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55402331", "title": "National Democratic Front of Boroland (D.R. Nabla faction)", "text": "National Democratic Front of Boroland (D.R. Nabla faction)\n\nNational Democratic Front of Boroland (D.R. Nabla faction) is one of the three factions of the National Democratic Front of Boroland, an armed revolutionary group in Assam, who are currently in peace talks with the Government of India along with the Progressive faction.\n\nThe main objective of the outfit is to establish a Boro homeland.\n\nRanjan Daimary aka D.R. Nabla, who is under house arrest currently represents as chairman of the faction.\n\n579 cadres of the faction, including about 70 female cadres - armed with sophisticated weapons have been located in two designated camps established in Panbari, Dhubri District, and Udalguri Town. Some of the members of the faction have already left Assam and joined the hardline faction which upholds sovereign existence of Boroland.\n"}
{"id": "26776397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26776397", "title": "New Economic Model", "text": "New Economic Model\n\nThe New Economic Model (NEM) is an economic plan in Malaysia unveiled on 30 March 2010 by Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak which is intended to more than double the per capita income in Malaysia by 2020. In summary, this programme aims to shift affirmative action from being ethnically-based to being need-based hence becoming more competitive, market and investor friendly.\n\nThe goal of the NEM, according to Najib, is to \"transform the Malaysian economy to become one with high incomes and quality growth\" by 2020. At the time of the plan's unveiling in 2010, per capita annual income in Malaysia stood at 23,100 Malaysian ringgit, approximately $7,000 in US currency; the plan's stated goal is to reach RM49,500 (US$15,000).\n\nThe keys to the plan as described by Najib at 30 March unveiling are \"high income, sustainability and inclusiveness\". The goal is to stimulate economic growth by improving worker productivity across all sectors of society, in part through an improved system of affirmative action, with an eye towards sustainability. Among other reforms meant to accomplish this goal, the Najib administration have also claimed that the NEM is to empower the private sector and to reduce fiscal disparity between the wealthiest and poorest of Malaysians.\n\nThe plan is intended to replace the New Economic Policy (NEP). Najib criticised the way that the NEP had been implemented over its 40-year history, arguing that affirmative action policies of the NEP needed to be better targeted.\n\nThe Malaysian Chinese Association released a statement supporting the plan. Opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim responded to the plan's announcement by arguing the plan was \"devoid of substance\" and was designed as a publicity tool for the Barisan Nasional government. Malay activist group Perkasa expressed concerns that the proposed Equal Opportunity Commission could be unconstitutional if it did not accord with the protection of Malays afforded by Article 153 of the Constitution.\nA spokesman for Khazanah Nasional Berhad, a government agency, stepped out to support it as a \"realistic outline\", provided that it is effectively implemented and embraced by the public. Democratic Action Party spokesperson Tony Pua said that Najib's launching of a new unit to strengthen Bumiputera economic participation has nullified his own New Economic Model and is nothing more than an endorsement of the controversial NEP, which favours the influential elite, and a copycat of Mahathir’s mega-projects and privatisation policies of the 1990s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57468730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57468730", "title": "Nikolas Sigurdsson Paus", "text": "Nikolas Sigurdsson Paus\n\nNikolas Sigurdsson Paus (mentioned 1329–1347) was a Norwegian nobleman who served as the Lawspeaker of Oslo shortly before the Black Death.\n\nHe is mentioned in written sources in medieval Oslo between 1329 and 1347, and as lawspeaker in 1347, two years before the Black Death reached the city. He was probably born in the late 13th century. Two seals used by Nikolas Paus are included in the \"Encyclopedia of Noble Families in Denmark, Norway and the Duchies\" (published 1782–1813).\n\nHe was usually known by his cognomen \"Paus\", but his patronymic Sigurdsson is also used in some sources. Both he and other individuals named Paus (with different spellings) owned substantial land in Nes near Oslo during the 14th and 15th centuries, but their exact relations are not known. Medieval historians P.A. Munch, Alexander Bugge and Edvard Bull argued, on the basis of the Low German-sounding name, that Nikolas Paus' family was of Low German origin and wrote that the family was an influential immigrant family in medieval Oslo; the family may have immigrated as merchants in the 12th or 13th century. According to Munch, Bugge and Bull, the farm \"Pausinn\", one of the \"city farms\" of medieval Oslo that is mentioned in written sources between 1324 and 1482, was probably named after Nikolas Paus or a member of his family.\n"}
{"id": "15948285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15948285", "title": "Oster conspiracy", "text": "Oster conspiracy\n\nThe Oster Conspiracy of 1938 was a proposed plan to overthrow German \"Führer\" Adolf Hitler and the Nazi regime if Germany went to war with Czechoslovakia over the Sudetenland. It was led by Generalmajor Hans Oster, deputy head of the \"Abwehr\" and other high-ranking conservatives within the Wehrmacht who opposed the regime for behavior that was threatening to bring Germany into a war that they believed it was not ready to fight. They planned to overthrow Hitler and the Nazi regime through a storming of the Reich Chancellery by forces loyal to the plot to take control of the government, who would either arrest or assassinate Hitler, and restore the exiled Wilhelm II as Emperor.\n\nThe plot was organised and developed by then Oberstleutnant Hans Oster and Major Helmuth Groscurth of the Abwehr. They drew into the conspiracy such people as Generaloberst Ludwig Beck, Generaloberst Walther von Brauchitsch, Generaloberst Franz Halder, Admiral Wilhelm Canaris, and Generalleutnant Erwin von Witzleben. The working plan was for Count Hans-Jürgen von Blumenthal to lead a storm party into the Reich Chancellery and kill Hitler. It would then be necessary to neutralize the Nazi Party apparatus in order to stop them from proceeding with the invasion of Czechoslovakia, which they believed would lead to a war that would ruin Germany.\n\nIn addition to these military figures, the conspirators also had contact with Secretary of State Ernst von Weizsäcker and the diplomats Theodor and Erich Kordt. Theodor Kordt was considered a vital contact with the British on whom the success of the plot depended; the conspirators needed strong British opposition to Hitler's seizure of the Sudetenland. However, Neville Chamberlain, apprehensive of the possibility of war, negotiated at length with Hitler and eventually conceded strategic areas of Czechoslovakia to him. This destroyed any chance of the plot succeeding, as Hitler was then seen in Germany as the \"greatest statesman of all times at the moment of his greatest triumph\", and the immediate risk of war had been neutralized.\n\nThe plotters survived to become leaders of German resistance to Hitler and Nazism during the Second World War. Oster himself was on active duty until 1943, when placed under house arrest after other Abwehr officers were caught helping Jews to escape Germany. After the failed 1944 July Plot on Hitler's life, the Gestapo seized the diaries of Admiral Canaris, in which Oster's long term anti-Nazi activities were revealed. Oster was executed in April 1945.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50220394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50220394", "title": "Poundmaster", "text": "Poundmaster\n\nA poundmaster or poundkeeper was a local government official responsible for the feeding and care of stray livestock such as hogs, cattle, horses, sheep, and geese. This was common in colonial America and continued into the 19th century.\n\nUnlike today, the control of stray companion animals (cats and dogs) was not the duty of the poundmaster.\n\nThe poundmaster was tasked with impounding livestock that were loose in a city, town, or village. Wayward animals were brought to the pound by the poundmaster, constables, or private citizens. The poundmaster would attempt to notify the owner, who could pay a fine and any associated fees, and claim the animal(s). If unclaimed, the animals would be sold at auction.\n\nMore valuable livestock could require longer periods of public notification before an auction.\n\nIn New York State, in the early 19th century, the poundmaster was required by law to sell unclaimed impounded animals within six days and give 48 hours notice of the sale. The owner could claim the proceeds of the sale (less fines and fees) for one year after the sale at which time the money would be transferred to the Overseer of the poor for their use.\n\nFees include the fee for the poundmaster plus daily feeding costs of the animals, fees of any Fence Viewers involved in the case, and any property damages assessed by the fence-viewers.\n\nA New York State law of March 19, 1813 required each town to choose as many poundmasters as the electors determined to be \"necessary and convenient.\" While other town officials were elected by secret ballot, the town clerk used a blank sheet of paper to write the names of poundmaster candidates and record their votes.\n\nIn some areas, the poundmaster would slaughter the animals and sell only the meat.\n\nIn the 18th century, the pound was typically a centrally located stone fenced enclosure. Two such partially surviving structures, the Pownal Cattle Pound and the Turner Cattle Pound, both in Maine, are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nSince the need to deal with stray livestock today is rare, the function has evolved into the modern dog-catcher or Animal control officer. While not commonly used, the term poundmaster is often found in local government charters referring to the person in charge of a (companion animal) pound.\n\nThe poundmaster also existed in Australia, and may go back to medieval England.\n"}
{"id": "336528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336528", "title": "President of the Continental Congress", "text": "President of the Continental Congress\n\nThe President of the Continental Congress was the presiding officer of the Continental Congress, the convention of delegates that emerged as the first (transitional) national government of the United States during the American Revolution. The president was a member of Congress elected by the other delegates to serve as a neutral discussion moderator during meetings of Congress. Designed to be a largely ceremonial position without much influence, the office was unrelated to the later office of President of the United States. Upon the ratification of the Articles of Confederation (the new nation's first constitution) in March 1781, the Continental Congress became the Congress of the Confederation. The membership of the Second Continental Congress carried over without interruption to the First Congress of the Confederation, as did the office of president. \n\nFourteen men served as president of Congress between September 1774 and November 1788. They came from 9 of the original 13 states: Virginia (3), Massachusetts (2), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (2), Connecticut (1), Delaware (1), Maryland (1), New Jersey (1), and New York (1). The median age at the time of election was 47.\n\nThe president of Congress was, by design, a position with little authority. The Continental Congress, fearful of concentrating political power in an individual, gave their presiding officer even less responsibility than the speakers in the lower houses of the colonial assemblies. Unlike some colonial speakers, the president of Congress could not, for example, set the legislative agenda or make committee appointments. The president could not meet privately with foreign leaders; such meetings were held with committees or the entire Congress. \n\nThe presidency was a largely ceremonial position. There was no salary. The primary role of the office was to preside over meetings of Congress, which entailed serving as an impartial moderator during debates. When Congress would resolve itself into a Committee of the Whole to discuss important matters, the president would relinquish his chair to the chairman of the Committee of the Whole. Even so, the fact that President Thomas McKean was at the same time serving as Chief Justice of Pennsylvania, provoked some criticism that he had become too powerful. According to historian Jennings Sanders, McKean's critics were ignorant of the powerlessness of the office of president of Congress.\n\nThe president was also responsible for dealing with a large amount of official correspondence, but he could not answer any letter without being instructed to do so by Congress. Presidents also signed, but did not write, Congress's official documents. These limitations could be frustrating, because a delegate essentially declined in influence when he was elected president.\n\nHistorian Richard B. Morris argued that, despite the ceremonial role, some presidents were able to wield some influence:\nCongress, and its presidency, declined in importance after the ratification of the Articles of Confederation and the ending of the Revolutionary War. Increasingly, delegates elected to the Congress declined to serve, the leading men in each state preferred to serve in state government, and the Congress had difficulty establishing a quorum. President Hanson wanted to resign after only a week in office, but Congress lacked a quorum to select a successor, and so he stayed on. President Mifflin found it difficult to convince the states to send enough delegates to Congress to ratify the 1783 Treaty of Paris. For six weeks in 1784, President Lee did not come to Congress, but instead instructed secretary Charles Thomson to forward any papers that needed his signature.\n\nJohn Hancock was elected to a second term in November 1785, even though he was not then in Congress, and Congress was aware that he was unlikely to attend. He never took his seat, citing poor health, though he may have been uninterested in the position. Two delegates, David Ramsay and Nathaniel Gorham, performed his duties with the title of \"chairman\". When Hancock finally resigned the office in June 1786, Gorham was elected. After he resigned in November 1786, it was months before enough members were present in Congress to elect a new president. In February 1787, General Arthur St. Clair was elected. Congress passed the Northwest Ordinance during St. Clair's presidency and elected him as the governor of the Northwest Territory.\n\nAs the people of the various states began debating the proposed United States Constitution in later months of 1787, the Confederation Congress found itself reduced to the status of a caretaker government. There were not enough delegates present to choose St. Clair's successor until January 22, 1788, when the final president of Congress, Cyrus Griffin, was elected. Griffin resigned his office on November 15, 1788, after only two delegates showed up for the new session of Congress.\n\nPrior to ratification of the Articles, presidents of Congress served terms of no specific duration; their tenure ended when they resigned, or, lacking an official resignation, when Congress selected a successor. When Peyton Randolph, who was elected in September 1774 to preside over the First Continental Congress, was unable to attend the last few days of the session due to poor health, Henry Middleton was elected to replace him. When the Second Continental Congress convened the following May, Randolph was again chosen as president, but he returned to Virginia two weeks later to preside over the House of Burgesses. John Hancock was elected to fill the vacancy, but his position was somewhat ambiguous, because it was not clear if Randolph had resigned or was on a leave of absence. The situation became uncomfortable when Randolph returned to Congress in September 1775. Some delegates thought Hancock should have stepped down, but he did not; the matter was resolved only by Randolph's sudden death that October.\n\nAmbiguity also clouded the end of Hancock's term. He left in October 1777 for what he believed was an extended leave of absence, only to find upon his return that Congress had elected Henry Laurens to replace him. Hancock, whose term ran from May 24, 1775 to October 29, 1777 (a period of ), was the longest serving president of Congress.\n\nThe length of a presidential term was ultimately codified by Article Nine of the Articles of Confederation, which authorized Congress \"to appoint one of their number to preside; provided that no person be allowed to serve in the office of president more than one year in any term of three years\". When the Articles went into effect in March 1781, however, the Continental Congress did not hold an election for a new president under the new constitution. Instead, Samuel Huntington continued serving a term that had already exceeded the new Term limit. The first president to serve the specified one-year term was John Hanson (November 5, 1781 to November 4, 1782).\n\nTerms and backgrounds of the 14 persons who served as president of the Continental Congress:\nBecause Hanson was the first president to serve under the Articles of Confederation, his grandson later promoted him as the \"first President of the United States\" and waged a successful campaign to have Hanson's statue placed in Statuary Hall in the US Capitol, even though, according to historian Gregory Stiverson, Hanson was not one of Maryland's foremost leaders of the Revolutionary era. In reality, beyond a similarity of title, the office of president of Congress \"bore no relationship\" to the later office of President of the United States. As historian Edmund Burnett wrote:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46384788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46384788", "title": "Quick Wins ethnic outreach scandal", "text": "Quick Wins ethnic outreach scandal\n\nThe Quick Wins ethnic outreach scandal also known as ‘Ethnicgate’ was a political controversy beginning in 2013 in the Canadian province of British Columbia (BC) that resulted in the resignations of public servants and a cabinet minister in 2013 and Elections Act charges in 2014 against two staff members of the British Columbia Liberal Party.\n\nA government review concluded that public servants were using their time and government resources to engage with ethnic communities for partisan purposes. An investigation by the RCMP and a special prosecutor also charged two Liberal party staffers with violations of the Elections Act in failing to disclose financial contributions for a byelection campaign. The trial was expected to proceed in 2015.\n\nOn February 27, 2013, the Official Opposition (the BC NDP) used Question Period in the legislature to make public some leaked documents that showed the governing Liberal Party had prepared a \"Multicultural Strategic Outreach Plan\" that targeted “quick wins”—such as official apologies for historical wrongs like the Komagata Maru incident—to gain support from ethnic communities through a potential mix of partisan and provincial government activities and resources. It referred to collecting lists of names from government programs for Liberal party use, preparing criticism of political opponents and stressed a need for secrecy and subterfuge by using personal email accounts, not government ones.\n\nRepresentatives of Chinese-Canadian, Indo-Canadian and other ethnic communities responded to the scandal due to perceiving the plan as being disrespectful, immoral and causing outrage.\n\nPremier Christy Clark hosted an emergency cabinet meeting. Clark repeatedly apologized in the legislature for the issue, calling it ‘a very serious mistake.’\n\nOn February 28, 2013, Premier Clark and her cabinet ministers directed John Dyble, who was Deputy Minister to the Premier, Cabinet Secretary and Head of the BC Public Service, to investigate whether government resources were inappropriately used or the Public Service Act violated in development and implementation of the Liberal Party’s \"Multicultural Strategic Outreach Plan\".\n\nDyble’s review conducted 27 interviews and gathered approximately 10,000 pages of documents, including government records from personal e-mail accounts, for events beginning as early as March 2011. The review concluded Kim Haakstad, the Premier’s Deputy Chief of Staff, made a “serious breach of the Standards of Conduct” by managing a meeting on December 1, 2011 to exchange information and plan coordination for multicultural outreach between six government employees (including Brian Bonney and Pamela Martin) and five BC Liberal party and caucus staff (including former MLA Lorne Mayencourt). Several participants described the focus of the meeting as unclear whether it was for government or partisan purposes. The resulting work plan caused hiring of community liaison contractors that lacked a clear distinction between being government or Liberal party caucus contractors. The report concluded two public servants breached government procurement standards in assisting applicants to make submissions. The report also said that up to half of Brian Bonney’s government-paid time as a ministry communications director was actually used to do partisan work for the Liberal Party.\n\nPremier Clark, MLAs Harry Bloy and John Yap were interviewed as part of the review and stated they had never seen the draft strategy or work plan documents until they were made public in February 2013.\n\nDyble’s review recommended clarification of public servants’ standards of conduct and use of government e-mail accounts for government-related work.\n\nA public apology in the legislature for the Chinese Head Tax had been planned for March 14, 2013 but was postponed until the next legislative session due to the release of the Dyble review on that date.\n\nShortly before the plan was made public by the NDP, Brian Bonney had resigned as communications director for multiculturalism. Given the conclusion of Dyble’s review that Bonney spent up to half of his government-paid time working on partisan activities, the BC Liberal Party repaid $70,000 to the government.\n\nShortly after the plan became public, Haakstad resigned from being Premier Clark’s Deputy Chief of Staff. She later volunteered to assist Clark’s unsuccessful campaign to be re-elected as MLA for Vancouver-Point Grey.\n\nDue to the ongoing investigation by Dyble, Yap resigned as Minister of Advanced Education, Innovation and Technology and Minister Responsible for Multiculturalism on March 4, 2013. He had justified the use of personal e-mail accounts by public servants and politicians to prevent release of the information under the Freedom of Information Act. Yap was then re-elected as MLA for Richmond-Steveston two months after resigning from cabinet.\n\nPrior to the May election, two outgoing Liberal MLAs, Kash Heed and Dave Hayer, both Indo-Canadians, called the plan insulting and demanded those responsible be held accountable. Dave Hayer’s criticism of his party’s work on the Quick Wins strategy: \"This proposed outreach plan was insulting to the intended targeted communities and was, when I found out about it, insulting to me and to all other MLAs who believe in doing things properly, fairly and within the rules and laws of the legislature… Nobody in their right mind would be telling anybody to do anything like this. I can tell you, all the MLAs I talked to think this is wrong. We think whoever did this should be held responsible.\"\n\nSome Liberal riding associations lost members and a group of 89 party members made a public call for the resignation of Clark. In the lead-up to the May 2013 election, the Quick Wins scandal was credited as a factor in Christy Clark ‘s trailing Adrian Dix by 20 points in polls. However on election day, the majority of voters continued to support the Liberal party.\n\nIn August 2013, three months after the NDP’s election loss, Opposition leader Adrian Dix sent correspondence to the RCMP calling for an investigation based on alleged new information.\n\nIn 2014, special prosecutor David Butcher approved charges against Brian Bonney and Liberal party staffer Mark Robertson for violating the provincial Election Act due to an alleged failure to disclose a $2,240 campaign contribution to the Liberal party during the spring 2012 byelection in Port Moody-Coquitlam.\n\nSepideh Sarrafpour, a BC Liberal caucus ethnic outreach contractor from October 2011 to October 2012, was expected to be a witness in the trial due to attempts by the accused in involving her in the by-election campaign. Her possible involvement was made public by inclusion of an e-mail from Brian Bonney in the Dyble review: \"Have [MLA] Harry Bloy meet with her and explain how doing anything would damage the Premier and the party. Have him say how he will try to find her work and get her back involved... If need be, offer x dollars per month to do non public work up to election [developing her database of potential supporters].\"\n"}
{"id": "13242942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13242942", "title": "RCIS", "text": "RCIS\n\nThere are multiple organizations called RCIS, including the Royal Canadian Institute for Science in Toronto, Canada, Ryerson Centre for Immigration and Settlement at Ryerson University, Canada and the , currently located in Akihabara, Tokyo, Japan, a research unit of National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST, 産業総合技術研究所).\n\nCurrently, there are more than 40 international researchers in Research Center for Information Security, divided into four research teams.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1381330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1381330", "title": "Revolutionary song", "text": "Revolutionary song\n\nRevolutionary songs are political songs that advocate or praise revolutions. They are used to boost morale, as well as for political propaganda or agitation. Amongst the most well-known revolutionary songs are \"La Marseillaise\" and \"The Internationale\". Many protest songs can be considered revolutionary - or later become canonized as revolutionary songs following a successful revolution. On the other hand, once a revolution is established, some of the aspects of protest song may be considered counter-revolutionary.\n\nRevolutionary songs are a notable part of propaganda. The singing of such songs is often considered as a demonstrative or revolutionary action. Such songs have been known to lend solidarity to disjointed political communities. Some revolutionary songs have appeared spontaneously; others have been written by notable authors, such as Bertolt Brecht. Revolutionary songs are frequently targeted at certain governments.\n\nMusic was part of the cultural support of the earliest revolutions, and institutionalized as a genre of socialist or workers' music in countries including the Soviet Union, its former Eastern European satellites, China, Vietnam, Cuba and North Korea, as well as less permanent revolutionary movements in other countries.\n\nDuring the French Revolution notable songs, beyond La Marseillaise, included Chant du départ, Carmagnole, \"Ah! ça ira, ça ira, ça ira\" (1790), Allons Français au Champs de Mars (1790), L'aristocratie en déroute (1790), Aux bons citoyens (1790), Le bonnet de la liberté, and many more.\n\nSongs during the American Revolutionary War with revolutionary lyrics and propaganda purposes include songs such as \"Dying Redcoat\", \"Free America\", \"Poor Old Tory\", and \"Jefferson and Liberty\".\n\nThe successful Greek War of Independence between 1821 and 1832, generated not only revolutionary songs in Greece, but wide artistic and musical support from other western nations.\n\nThe Revolutions of 1848 in Europe generated a wide range of revolutionary, nationalist and patriotic popular song. This tapped into earlier support for the Napoleonic revolutions.\nThe current Romanian national anthem \"Deșteaptă-te, române!\" is a revolutionary song of 1848.\n\nMany revolutionary songs appeared during the Spanish Civil War and subsequent social revolution, especially amongst members of the anarcho-syndicalist trade union, the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT). The most famous of these, \"A Las Barricadas\", remains popular for anarchist militants to this day.\n\nIn post-World War II Europe, revolutionary songs were taught in schools and sung at celebrations and official functions.\n\nRevolutionary songs were a prominent part of the popular culture of the People's Republic of China during the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, and especially during the Cultural Revolution. One of the more popular Chinese revolutionary songs was \"Nanniwan\", a 1943 song lauding the exploits of the Chinese Red Army in a gorge in Shaanxi province near the revolutionary base of Yan'an. Revolutionary songs of Communist China often served to glorify the 1949 revolution and to present an image of unity amongst China's 56 ethnic groups and its various regions. Songs such as \"The Sky Above the Liberated Zone\" (praising the Communist Party of China and romanticizing life in the CCP-held liberated zones during the wars against Japan and the Kuomintang) and \"Osmanthus Flowers Blooming Everywhere in August\", a Red Army folk song from the Sichuan province, are among the best-known revolutionary songs from the wartime and Maoist periods in China.\n\nNhạc đỏ, \"Red Music,\" is the common name of the revolutionary music (nhạc cách mạng) genre in Vietnam. Composers during the struggle against the French include Đinh Nhu then songwriters of Vietnamese popular music such as Văn Cao.\n\nCuba's national anthem \"La Bayamesa (El Himno de Bayamo)\" dates to 1868, but many new songs were generated by the revolution. The key focus is on the rural people. \"Hasta siempre\" (1965) was written when Che Guevara departed Cuba to spread the revolution in Africa. Another well known Latin American song, \"El pueblo unido jamás será vencido\" (1973), is not a revolutionary song, but a Chilean protest song in support of Salvador Allende. Cuban government sponsored revolutionary Nueva trova is often similar to Nueva canción, Latin American protest songs.\n\nFollowing the Iranian revolution musicians were obliged to create music different from the pre-revolutionary music both in terms of rhythm and content. Iranian revolutionary songs () are epic ballads, composed during the Islamic Revolution in Iran in support of the revolution and in opposition to the Pahlavi dynasty. Before the success of the revolution, these chants were made by various political supporters- many of them recorded on cassette tapes in underground and home studios. On the anniversary of the revolution, many of the songs were broadcast by Iranian state television. In schools the songs have been sung by students as part of the celebrations Fajr for decades.\n\nSome revolutionary songs intentionally mimic folk (children's) songs to make them palatable in non-political settings. An example of this type of song is a lullaby from Hungary (tentative translation follows), which starts off as a lullaby but shifts into more direct propaganda toward the end:\n\nThe bunch of little bears happily sleeping<br>\nAnd the pool sleeps on a soft pillow<br>\nThe swing sleeps too, and the night will be their good blanket<br>\nDream, my little one, soft dream flies<br>\nIt flies to your eyes<br>\nBe silent, little baby<br>\nOur dreams were hushed away by the grim despotism<br>\nAnd only our hunger sung our song.\n\nAnother example is \"Tomorrow Belongs to Me\", which is performed by a young man in the movie \"Cabaret\". It starts off as a sweet folk song about nature, and then it becomes apparent that the young man is a member of the Hitlerjugend. Soon the song changes into a marching song, and the lyrics became a fascist propaganda about \"rising up.\"\n\nAnother kind of revolutionary songs are folk songs that become popular or change lyrics during revolutions or civil wars. Typical examples, the Mexican song \"La Cucaracha\" and the Russian song \"Yablochko\" (Little Apple) have humorous (often darkly humorous) lyrics that come in easily remembered stanzas and vary highly from singer to singer.\n\nThe effect of some revolutionary song has been compared to a trumpeted cavalry charge, inspiring individuals to be united with a larger group.\n\n"}
{"id": "36050633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36050633", "title": "Role of networks in electoral behavior", "text": "Role of networks in electoral behavior\n\nNetworks in electoral behavior, as a part of political science, refers to the relevance of networks in forming citizens’ voting behavior at parliamentary, presidential or local elections. There are several theories emphasizing different factors which may shape citizens' voting behavior. Many influential theories ignore the possible influence of individuals' networks in forming vote choices and focus mainly on the effects of own political attitudes – such as party loyalties or party identification developed in childhood proposed by the Michigan model, or on the influence of rational calculations about the political parties’ ideological positions as proposed by spatial and valence theories. These theories offer models of electoral behavior in which individuals are not analyzed within their social networks and environments. In a more general context, some authors warn that the hypothesis testing done mainly based on sample surveys and focused on individuals’ attributes without looking at relational data (relations among individuals) seems to be a poor methodological instrument. However, models emphasizing the influence of individuals’ social networks in shaping their electoral choices have been also present in the literature from the very beginning.\n\nThere are three main (theoretical and empirical) approaches emphasizing the importance of networks in shaping electoral decisions: using surveys to measure actors’ (in this case voters’) attitudes (Columbia Studies), measuring collective patterns of social groups on an aggregate level as supplementary information (Contextual analysis) and focusing on interpersonal dynamics among individuals.\n\nThe relevance of networks in individuals' electoral choices was first identified by Lazarsfeld and his colleagues in The People’s Choice: How the Voter Makes Up His Mind in a Presidential Campaign and in Voting: A Study of Opinion Formation in a Presidential Campaign. Their findings were mainly based on a survey gathered in 1940 in Erie County, Ohio and on a survey collected in 1948 in Elmira, New York. The model proposed by them is usually referred to as the model of Columbia Studies. Individuals' perception of the political world is conceptualized in network terms according to this model. The main argument of these books is that the interpersonal influence of their families, friends and co-workers form voters’ political views. Voters’ choices are shaped through interpersonal communication networks. These horizontal networks have a stronger effect on individuals’ political decisions than the opinions and viewpoints presented and framed in the media. Social categories – such as religion and class – may also explain individuals’ choices. A businessman with friends and co-workers from that class is more likely to vote for a Republican candidate than a blue-collar worker. The findings may be concluded in the following way: \"they (voting decisions) are relatively invulnerable to direct argumentation and vulnerable to indirect social influences”. Major criticisms of this model were developed on their data collection methods. Respondents were asked about the possible opinions of their three best friends and three closest co-workers. However, not the actual opinions of these individuals, rather respondents' perceptions of their opinions were collected. This is why some authors think that the Columbia Studies can not be regarded as a predecessor of social network analysis.\n\nThe main claim of the literature on contextual analysis is that individuals live in a social environment that should be taken into account when one analyzes their political orientations. The particular social or political context (which may be institutional, occupational or residential for instance) someone lives in shapes his/her interpersonal interactions and thus his/her political behavior. Coming back to the previous example blue-collar workers are more likely to support a Republican candidate if they live in a neighborhood where most of the residents are white-collar workers than those blue-collars workers who live in neighborhoods with a higher percentage of blue-collar worker residents. One may see that the logic of this approach is very close to that of the Columbia Studies but is more focused on communities and contains a lower explicit emphasis on interpersonal networks.\n\nThe third approach focuses on interpersonal interactions with the assumption that individuals are members of networks in which political information spreads through communication. Information with higher quality spreading through the communication channels probably has a stronger effect on political choices.\n\nAlthough there are several possible research designs to analyze networks in political context, the relevance of networks in shaping electoral choices has been approached in three main manners – all being observational research designs.\n\nFirstly, most of the authors follow the data gathering technique and research design of Columbia Studies. It means that the randomly chosen respondents within a limited area are asked about their closest friends/relatives/co-workers (sometimes also about the closeness of this particular relationships) and about their possible political orientations. One famous example was done by Laumann in 1973 in Detroit in which he shows that the closer the ties are for a respondent, the greater the political homogeneity the network has.\nAnother example could be the work by Knoke (1990) which uses a very similar research design but is based on a national sample (the General Social Survey). He shows that both the extent to which respondents' environments are politicized and the frequency of political discussions they have influence their party choices. These studies may be done in either a cross-sectional design at one time point or in a panel design through the repeated measurement of the same individuals.\n\nSecondly and thirdly, the contextual analysis approach has come up with slightly different research designs. One way to incorporate information about respondents’ communities is to include aggregate level neighborhood characteristics in the individual level data. Another way to detect respondents’ communities is based on the snowball survey technique. Similarly to the research designs done by the Columbia Studies authors, respondents are asked about their closest friends. However, unlikely to those studies, in this case these friends are directly surveyed as well – thus not only the perception of their opinion is gathered.\n"}
{"id": "263261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263261", "title": "Sacco and Vanzetti", "text": "Sacco and Vanzetti\n\nNicola Sacco (April 22, 1891 – August 23, 1927) and Bartolomeo Vanzetti (June 11, 1888 – August 23, 1927) were Italian-born American anarchists who were controversially convicted of murdering a guard and a paymaster during the April 15, 1920 armed robbery of the Slater and Morrill Shoe Company in Braintree, Massachusetts, United States. Seven years later, they were electrocuted in the electric chair at Charlestown State Prison. Both men adhered to an anarchist movement that advocated relentless warfare against a violent and oppressive government.\n\nAfter a few hours' deliberation on July 14, 1921, the jury convicted Sacco and Vanzetti of first-degree murder and they were sentenced to death by the trial judge. Anti-Italianism, anti-immigrant bias, and anti-left political motives were suspected as having heavily influenced the verdict. A series of appeals followed, funded largely by the private Sacco and Vanzetti Defense Committee. The appeals were based on recanted testimony, conflicting ballistics evidence, a prejudicial pre-trial statement by the jury foreman, and a confession by an alleged participant in the robbery. All appeals were denied by trial judge Webster Thayer and also later denied by the Massachusetts State Supreme Court. By 1926, the case had drawn worldwide attention. As details of the trial and the men's suspected innocence became known, Sacco and Vanzetti became the center of one of the largest causes célèbres in modern history. In 1927, protests on their behalf were held in every major city in North America and Europe, as well as in Tokyo, Toronto, London, Sydney, São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Buenos Aires, Johannesburg, and Auckland.\n\nCelebrated writers, artists, and academics pleaded for their pardon or for a new trial. Harvard law professor and future Supreme Court justice Felix Frankfurter argued for their innocence in a widely read \"Atlantic Monthly\" article that was later published in book form. Sacco and Vanzetti were scheduled to die in April 1927, accelerating the outcry. Responding to a massive influx of telegrams urging their pardon, Massachusetts governor Alvan T. Fuller appointed a three-man commission to investigate the case. After weeks of secret deliberation that included interviews with the judge, lawyers, and several witnesses, the commission upheld the verdict. Sacco and Vanzetti were executed in the electric chair just after midnight on August 23, 1927. Subsequent riots destroyed property in Paris, London, and other cities.\n\nInvestigations in the aftermath of the executions continued throughout the 1930s and 1940s. The publication of the men's letters, containing eloquent professions of innocence, intensified belief in their wrongful execution. Additional ballistics tests and incriminating statements by the men's acquaintances have clouded the case. On August 23, 1977—the 50th anniversary of the executions—Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis issued a proclamation that Sacco and Vanzetti had been unfairly tried and convicted and that \"any disgrace should be forever removed from their names\".\n\nSacco was a shoemaker and a night watchman, born April 22, 1891 in Torremaggiore, Province of Foggia, Apulia region (in Italian: \"Puglia\"), Italy, who migrated to the United States at the age of seventeen. Vanzetti was a fishmonger born June 11, 1888 in Villafalletto, Province of Cuneo, Piedmont region, who arrived in the United States at the age of twenty. Both men left Italy for the US in 1908, although they did not meet until a 1917 strike.\n\nThe men were believed to be followers of Luigi Galleani, an Italian anarchist who advocated revolutionary violence, including bombing and assassination. Galleani published \"Cronaca Sovversiva\" (\"Subversive Chronicle\"), a periodical that advocated violent revolution, and a bomb-making manual called \"La Salute è in voi!\" (\"Health is in you!\"). At the time, Italian anarchists – in particular the Galleanist group – ranked at the top of the United States government's list of dangerous enemies. Since 1914, the Galleanists had been identified as suspects in several violent bombings and assassination attempts, including an attempted mass poisoning. Publication of \"Cronaca Sovversiva\" was suppressed in July 1918, and the government deported Galleani and eight of his closest associates on June 24, 1919.\n\nRemaining Galleanists remained active. For three years, perhaps 60 Galleanists waged an intermittent campaign of violence against US politicians, judges, and other federal and local officials, especially those who had supported deportation of alien radicals. Among the dozen or more violent acts was the bombing of Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer's home on June 2, 1919. In that incident, Carlo Valdinocci, a former editor of \"Cronaca Sovversiva\" and an associate of Sacco and Vanzetti, was killed when the bomb intended for Palmer exploded in Valdinocci's hands. Radical pamphlets entitled \"Plain Words\" signed \"The Anarchist Fighters\" were found at the scene of this and several other midnight bombings that night.\n\nSeveral Galleanist associates were suspected or interrogated about their roles in the bombing incidents. Two days before Sacco and Vanzetti were arrested, a Galleanist named Andrea Salsedo fell to his death from the US Justice Department's Bureau of Investigation (BOI) offices on the 14th floor of 15 Park Row in New York City. Salsedo had worked in the Canzani Printshop in Brooklyn, to where federal agents traced the \"Plain Words\" leaflet.\n\nRoberto Elia, a fellow New York printer and admitted anarchist, was later deposed in the inquiry, and testified that Salsedo had committed suicide for fear of betraying the others. He portrayed himself as the 'strong' one who had resisted the police. According to anarchist writer Carlo Tresca, Elia changed his story later, stating that Federal agents had thrown Salsedo out the window.\n\nThe Slater-Morrill Shoe Company factory was located on Pearl Street in Braintree, Massachusetts. On April 15, 1920, two men were robbed and killed while transporting the company's payroll in two large steel boxes to the main factory. One of them, Alessandro Berardelli—a security guard—was shot four times as he reached for his hip-holstered .38-caliber, Harrington & Richardson revolver; his gun was not recovered from the scene. The other man, Frederick Parmenter—a paymaster who was unarmed—was shot twice: once in the chest and a second time, fatally, in the back as he attempted to flee. The robbers seized the payroll boxes and escaped in a stolen dark blue Buick that sped up and was carrying several other men. \n\nAs the car was being driven away, the robbers fired wildly at company workers nearby. A coroner's report and subsequent ballistic investigation revealed that six bullets removed from the murdered men's bodies were of .32 automatic (ACP) caliber. Five of these .32-caliber bullets were all fired from a single semi-automatic pistol, a .32-caliber Savage Model 1907, which used a particularly narrow-grooved barrel rifling with a right-hand twist. Two of the bullets were recovered from Berardelli's body. Four .32 automatic brass shell casings were found at the murder scene, manufactured by one of three firms: Peters, Winchester, or Remington. The Winchester cartridge case was of a relatively obsolete cartridge loading, which had been discontinued from production some years earlier. Two days after the robbery, police located the robbers' Buick; several 12-gauge shotgun shells were found on the ground nearby.\n\nAn earlier attempted robbery of another shoe factory occurred on December 24, 1919 in Bridgewater, Massachusetts by people identified as Italian who used a car that was seen escaping to Cochesett in West Bridgewater. Police speculated that Italian anarchists perpetrated the robberies to finance their activities. Bridgewater police chief Michael E. Stewart suspected that known Italian anarchist Ferruccio Coacci was involved. Stewart discovered that Mario Buda (aka 'Mike' Boda) lived with Coacci.\n\nOn April 16—one day after the Braintree robbery-murders—the Federal Immigration Service (FIS) called Chief Stewart to discuss Galleanist and anarchist Coacci, whom Stewart had arrested on their behalf two years earlier. Coacci was slated for deportation on April 15, 1920, the day of the Braintree holdup, but telephoned with the excuse that his wife was ill. The FIS asked Stewart to investigate Coacci's excuse for failing to report for deportation on April 15. On April 16, officers discovered Coacci at home and determined that he had given a false alibi for not showing up for deportation. They offered him another week, but Coacci declined and left for Italy on April 18, 1920.\n\nWhen Chief Stewart later arrived at the Coacci home, Coacci was missing but they found Buda. When he was questioned, Buda said that Coacci owned a .32 Savage automatic pistol, which he kept in the kitchen. A search of the kitchen did not locate the gun, but Stewart found a manufacturer's technical diagram for a Model 1907 .32 Savage automatic pistol – the exact pistol type and caliber used to shoot Parmenter and Berardelli – in a kitchen drawer. Stewart asked Buda if he owned a gun, and the man produced a .32-caliber Spanish-made automatic pistol. Buda told police that he owned a 1914 Overland automobile, which was being repaired. The car was delivered for repairs four days after the Braintree crimes, but it was old and apparently had not been run for five months. Tire tracks were seen near the abandoned Buick getaway car, and Chief Stewart surmised that two cars had been used in the getaway, and that Buda's car might have been the second car. The garage proprietor who was repairing Buda's vehicle was instructed to call the police if anyone came to pick up the car.\n\nWhen Stewart discovered that Coacci had worked for both shoe factories that had been robbed, he returned with the Bridgewater police. Coacci had since left for Italy with his family along with his possessions, and Buda had just escaped.\n\nOn May 5, 1920, Mario Buda arrived at the garage with three other men, later identified as Sacco, Vanzetti, and Riccardo Orciani. The four men knew each other well; Buda would later call Sacco and Vanzetti \"the best friends I had in America.\" Police were alerted, but the men left. Buda escaped and did not resurface until 1928 in Italy.\n\nSacco and Vanzetti boarded a streetcar, but were tracked down and soon arrested. When searched by police, both denied owning any guns, but were found to be holding loaded pistols. Sacco was found to have an Italian passport, anarchist literature, a loaded .32 Colt Model 1903 automatic pistol, and twenty-three .32 Automatic cartridges in his possession; several of those bullet cases were of the same obsolescent type as the empty Winchester .32 casing found at the crime scene, and others were manufactured by the firms of Peters and Remington, much like other casings found at the scene. Vanzetti had four 12-gauge shotgun shells and a five-shot nickel-plated .38-caliber Harrington & Richardson revolver similar to the .38 carried by Berardelli, the slain Braintree guard, whose weapon was not found at the scene of the crime. When they were questioned, the pair denied any connection to anarchists.\n\nOrciani was arrested May 6, but gave the alibi that he had been at work on the day of both crimes. Sacco had been at work on the day of the Bridgewater crimes but said that he had the day off on April 15—the day of the Braintree crimes— and was charged with those murders. The self-employed Vanzetti had no such alibis and was charged for the attempted robbery and attempted murder in Bridgewater and the robbery and murder in the Braintree crimes. Sacco and Vanzetti were charged with the crime of murder on May 5, 1920 and indicted four months later on September 14.\n\nFollowing Sacco and Vanzetti's indictment for murder for the Braintree robbery, Galleanists and anarchists in the United States and abroad began a campaign of violent retaliation. Two days later on September 16, 1920, Mario Buda allegedly orchestrated the Wall Street bombing, where a time-delay dynamite bomb packed with heavy iron sash-weights in a horse-drawn cart exploded, killing 38 people and wounding 134. In 1921, a booby trap bomb mailed to the American ambassador in Paris exploded, wounding his valet. For the next six years, bombs exploded at other American embassies all over the world.\n\nRather than accept court appointed counsel, Vanzetti chose to be represented by John P. Vahey, an experienced defense attorney, and James Graham, who was recommended by supporters. Frederick G. Katzmann, the Norfolk and Plymouth County District Attorney, prosecuted the case. The presiding judge was Webster Thayer, who was already assigned to the court before this case was scheduled. A few weeks earlier he had given a speech to new American citizens decrying Bolshevism and anarchism's threat to American institutions. He supported the suppression of functionally violent radical speech, and incitement to commit violent acts. He was known to dislike foreigners but was considered to be a fair judge.\n\nThe trial began on June 22, 1920. The prosecution presented several witnesses who put Vanzetti at the scene of crime. Their descriptions varied, especially with respect to the shape and length of Vanzetti's mustache. Physical evidence included a shotgun shell retrieved at the scene of the crime and several shells found on Vanzetti when he was arrested.\n\nThe defense produced 16 witnesses, all Italians from Plymouth, who testified that at the time of the attempted robbery they had bought eels from Vanzetti for Eastertide, in accordance with their traditions. Such details reinforced the difference between the Italians and the jurors. Some testified in imperfect English, others through an interpreter, whose inability to speak the same dialect of Italian as the witnesses hampered his effectiveness. On cross examination, the prosecution found it easy to make the witnesses appear confused about dates. A boy who testified admitted to rehearsing his testimony. \"You learned it just like a piece at school?\" the prosecutor asked. \"Sure\", he replied. The defense tried to rebut the eyewitnesses with testimony that Vanzetti always wore his mustache in a distinctive long style, but the prosecution rebutted this.\n\nThe defense case went badly and Vanzetti did not testify in his own defense. During the trial, he said that his lawyers had opposed putting him on the stand. That same year, defense attorney Vahey told the governor that Vanzetti had refused his advice to testify. Decades later, a lawyer who assisted Vahey in the defense said that the defense attorneys left the choice to Vanzetti, but warned him that it would be difficult to prevent the prosecution from using cross examination to challenge the credibility of his character based on his political beliefs. He said that Vanzetti chose not to testify after consulting with Sacco. Herbert Ehrmann, who later joined the defense team, wrote many years later that the dangers of putting Vanzetti on the stand were very real. Another legal analysis of the case faulted the defense for not offering more to the jury by letting Vanzetti testify, concluding that by his remaining silent it \"left the jury to decide between the eyewitnesses and the alibi witness without his aid. In these circumstances a verdict of not guilty would have been very unusual\". That analysis claimed that \"no one could say that the case was closely tried or vigorously fought for the defendant\".\n\nVanzetti complained during his sentencing on April 9, 1927, for the Braintree crimes, that Vahey \"sold me for thirty golden money like Judas sold Jesus Christ.\" He accused Vahey of having conspired with the prosecutor \"to agitate still more the passion of the juror, the prejudice of the juror\" towards \"people of our principles, against the foreigner, against slackers.\"\n\nOn July 1, 1920, the jury deliberated for five hours and returned guilty verdicts on both counts, armed robbery and first-degree murder. Before sentencing, Judge Thayer learned that during deliberations, the jury had tampered with the shotgun shells found on Vanzetti at the time of his arrest to determine if the shot they contained was of sufficient size to kill a man. Since that prejudiced the jury's verdict on the murder charge, Thayer declared that part a mistrial. On August 16, 1920, he sentenced Vanzetti on the charge of armed robbery to a term of 12 to 15 years in prison, the maximum sentence allowed. An assessment of Thayer's conduct of the trial said \"his stupid rulings as to the admissibility of conversations are about equally divided\" between the two sides and thus provided no evidence of partiality.\n\nIn 1927, advocates for Sacco and Vanzetti charged that this case was brought first because a conviction for the Bridgewater crimes would help convict him for the Braintree crimes, where evidence against him was weak. The prosecution countered that the timing was driven by the schedules of different courts that handled the cases. The defense raised only minor objections in an appeal that was not accepted. A few years later, Vahey joined Katzmann’s law firm.\n\nSacco and Vanzetti went on trial for their lives in Dedham, Massachusetts, May 21, 1921, at Dedham, Norfolk County for the Braintree robbery and murders. Webster Thayer again presided; he had asked to be assigned to the trial. Katzmann again prosecuted for the State. Vanzetti was represented by brothers Jeremiah and Thomas McAnraney. Sacco was represented by Fred H. Moore and William J. Callahan. The choice of Moore, a former attorney for the Industrial Workers of the World, proved a key mistake for the defense. A notorious radical from California, Moore quickly enraged Judge Thayer with his courtroom demeanor, often doffing his jacket and once, his shoes. Reporters covering the case were amazed to hear Judge Thayer, during a lunch recess, proclaim, \"I'll show them that no long-haired anarchist from California can run this court!\" and later, \"You wait till I give my charge to the jury. I'll show them.\" Throughout the trial, Moore and Thayer clashed repeatedly over procedure and decorum.\n\nAuthorities anticipated a possible bomb attack and had the Dedham courtroom outfitted with heavy, sliding steel doors and cast-iron shutters that were painted to appear wooden. Each day during the trial, the courthouse was placed under heavy police security, and Sacco and Vanzetti were escorted to and from the courtroom by armed guards.\n\nThe Commonwealth relied on evidence that Sacco was absent from his work in a shoe factory on the day of the murders; that the defendants were in the neighborhood of the Braintree robbery-murder scene on the morning when it occurred, being identified as having been there seen separately and also together; that the Buick getaway car was also in the neighborhood and that Vanzetti was near and in it; that Sacco was seen near the scene of the murders before they occurred and also was seen to shoot Berardelli after Berardelli fell and that that shot caused his death; that used shell casings were left at the scene of the murders, some of which could have been found to have been discharged from a .32 pistol afterwards found on Sacco; that a cap was found at the scene of the murders, which witnesses identified as resembling one formerly worn by Sacco; and that both men were members of anarchist cells that espoused violence, including assassination. Among the more important witnesses called by the prosecution was salesman Carlos E. Goodridge, who stated that as the getaway car raced within twenty-five feet of him, one of the car's occupants, whom he identified as being Sacco, pointed a gun in his direction.\n\nBoth defendants offered alibis that were backed by several witnesses. Vanzetti testified that he had been selling fish at the time of the Braintree robbery. Sacco testified that he had been in Boston applying for a passport at the Italian consulate. He stated he had lunched in Boston's North End with several friends, each of whom testified on his behalf. Prior to the trial, Sacco's lawyer, Fred Moore, went to great lengths to contact the consulate employee whom Sacco said he had talked with on the afternoon of the crime. Once contacted in Italy, the clerk said he remembered Sacco because of the unusually large passport photo he presented. The clerk also remembered the date, April 15, 1920, but he refused to return to the United States to testify (a trip requiring two ship voyages), citing his ill health. Instead he executed a sworn deposition that was read aloud in court and quickly dismissed.\n\nMuch of the trial focused on material evidence, notably bullets, guns, and the cap. Prosecution witnesses testified that \"Bullet III\", the .32-caliber bullet that had fatally wounded Berardelli, was from a discontinued Winchester .32 Auto cartridge loading so obsolete that the only bullets similar to it that anyone could locate to make comparisons were those found in the cartridges in Sacco's pockets. Prosecutor Frederick Katzmann decided to participate in a forensic bullet examination using bullets test-fired from Sacco's .32 Colt Automatic after the defense arranged for such tests. Sacco, saying he had nothing to hide, had allowed his gun to be test-fired, with experts for both sides present, during the trial's second week. The prosecution matched bullets fired through the gun to those taken from one of the slain men.\n\nIn court, District Attorney Katzmann called two forensic gun expert witnesses, Capt. Charles Van Amburgh of Springfield Armory and Capt. William Proctor of the Massachusetts State Police, who testified that they believed that of the four bullets recovered from Berardelli's body, \"Bullet III\" – the fatal bullet – exhibited rifling marks consistent with those found on bullets fired from Sacco's .32 Colt Automatic pistol. In rebuttal, two defense forensic gun experts would later testify that \"Bullet III\" did not match any of the test bullets from Sacco's Colt. Capt. Proctor would later sign an affidavit stating that he could not positively identify Sacco's .32 Colt as the only pistol that could have fired \"Bullet III.\" This meant that \"Bullet III\" could have been fired from any of the 300,000 .32 Colt Automatic pistols then in circulation. Noting all the witnesses to the shooting testified that they saw one gunman shoot Berardelli four times, the defense questioned how only one of four bullets found in the deceased guard was identified as being fired from Sacco's Colt.\n\nVanzetti was being tried under Massachusetts' felony-murder rule, and the prosecution sought to implicate him in the Braintree robbery by the testimony of several witnesses: one testified that he was in the getaway car, and others who stated they saw Vanzetti in the vicinity of the Braintree factory around the time of the robbery. No direct evidence tied Vanzetti's .38 nickel-plated Harrington & Richardson five-shot revolver to the crime scene, except for the fact that it was identical in type and appearance to one owned by the slain guard Berardelli, which was missing from the crime scene. All six bullets recovered from the victims were .32 caliber, fired from at least two different automatic pistols. Vanzetti, however, carried a .38-caliber revolver.\n\nThe prosecution claimed Vanzetti's .38 revolver had originally belonged to the slain Berardelli, and that it had been taken from his body during the robbery. No one testified to seeing anyone take the gun, but Berardelli had an empty holster and no gun on him when he was found. Additionally, witnesses to the payroll shooting had described Berardelli as reaching for his gun on his hip when he was cut down by pistol fire from the robbers.\n\nDistrict Attorney Katzmann pointed out that Vanzetti had lied at the time of his arrest, when making statements about the .38 revolver found in his possession. He claimed that the revolver was his own, and that he carried it for self-protection, yet he incorrectly described it to police as a six-shot revolver instead of a five-shot. Vanzetti also told police that he had purchased only one box of cartridges for the gun, all of the same make, yet his revolver was loaded with five .38 cartridges of varying brands. At the time of his arrest, Vanzetti also claimed that he had bought the gun at a store (but could not remember which one), and that it cost $18 or $19 (three times its actual market value). He lied about where he had obtained the .38 cartridges found in the revolver.\n\nIn an attempt to show that Vanzetti's revolver was taken from the slain Berardelli, the prosecution traced the history of Berardelli's .38 Harrington & Richardson (H&R) revolver. Berardelli's wife testified that she and her husband dropped off the gun for repair at the Iver Johnson Co. of Boston a few weeks before the murder. According to the foreman of the Iver Johnson repair shop, Berardelli's revolver was given a repair tag with the number of 94765, and this number was recorded in the repair logbook with the statement \"H. & R. revolver, .38-calibre, new hammer, repairing, half an hour\". However, the shop books did not record the gun's serial number, and the caliber was apparently incorrectly labeled as .32 instead of .38-caliber. The shop foreman testified that a new spring and hammer were put into Berardelli's Harrington & Richardson revolver. The gun was claimed and the half-hour repair paid for, though the date and identity of the claimant were not recorded. After examining Vanzetti's .38 revolver, the foreman testified that Vanzetti's gun had a new replacement hammer in keeping with the repair performed on Berardelli's revolver. The foreman explained that the shop was always kept busy repairing 20 to 30 revolvers per day, which made it very hard to remember individual guns or keep reliable records of when they were picked up by their owners. But, he said that unclaimed guns were sold by Iver Johnson at the end of each year, and the shop had no record of an unclaimed gun sale of Berardelli's revolver. To reinforce the conclusion that Berardelli had reclaimed his revolver from the repair shop, the prosecution called a witness who testified that he had seen Berardelli in possession of a .38 nickel-plated revolver the Saturday night before the Braintree robbery.\n\nAfter hearing testimony from the repair shop employee that \"the repair shop had no record of Berardelli picking up the gun, the gun was not in the shop nor had it been sold\", the defense put Vanzetti on the stand where he testified that \"he had actually bought the gun several months earlier from fellow anarchist Luigi Falzini for five dollars\" – in contradiction to what he had told police upon his arrest. This was corroborated by Luigi Falzini (Falsini), a friend of Vanzetti's and a fellow Galleanist, who stated that, after buying the .38 revolver from one Riccardo Orciani, he sold it to Vanzetti. The defense also called two expert witnesses, a Mr. Burns and a Mr. Fitzgerald, who each testified that no new spring and hammer had ever been installed in the revolver found in Vanzetti's possession.\n\nThe District Attorney's final piece of material evidence was a flop-eared cap claimed to have been Sacco's. Sacco tried the cap on in court and, according to two newspaper sketch artists who ran cartoons the next day, it was too small, sitting high on his head. But Katzmann insisted the cap fitted Sacco and, noting a hole in the back where Sacco had hung the cap on a nail each day, continued to refer to it as his, and in denying later appeals, Judge Thayer often cited the cap as material evidence. During the 1927 Lowell Commission investigation, however, Braintree's Police Chief admitted that he had torn the cap open upon finding it at the crime scene a full day after the murders. Doubting the cap was Sacco's, the chief told the commission it could not have lain in the street \"for thirty hours with the State Police, the local police, and two or three thousand people there.\"\nControversy clouded the prosecution witnesses who identified Sacco as having been at the scene of the crime. One, a bookkeeper named Mary Splaine, precisely described Sacco as the man she saw firing from the getaway car. From Felix Frankfurter's account from the Atlantic Monthly article:\n\nViewing the scene from a distance of from sixty to eighty feet, she saw a man previously unknown to her in a car traveling at the rate of from fifteen to eighteen miles per hour, and she saw him only for a distance of about thirty feet—that is to say, for from one and a half to three seconds.\n\nYet cross examination revealed that Splaine was unable to identify Sacco at the inquest but had recall of great details of Sacco's appearance over a year later. While a few others singled out Sacco or Vanzetti as the men they had seen at the scene of the crime, far more witnesses, both prosecution and defense, could not identify them.\n\nThe defendants' radical politics may have played a role in the verdict. Judge Thayer, though a sworn enemy of anarchists, warned the defense against bringing anarchism into the trial. Yet defense attorney Fred Moore felt he had to call both Sacco and Vanzetti as witnesses to let them explain why they were fully armed when arrested. Both men testified that they had been rounding up radical literature when apprehended, and that they had feared another government deportation raid. Yet both hurt their case with rambling discourses on radical politics that the prosecution mocked. The prosecution also brought out that both men had fled the draft by going to Mexico in 1917.\n\nOn July 21, 1921, the jury deliberated for three hours, broke for dinner, and then returned the guilty verdicts. Supporters later insisted that Sacco and Vanzetti had been convicted for their anarchist views, yet every juror insisted that anarchism had played no part in their decision to convict the two men. At that time, a first-degree murder conviction in Massachusetts was punishable by death. Sacco and Vanzetti were bound for the electric chair unless the defense could find new evidence.\n\nThe verdicts and the likelihood of death sentences immediately roused international opinion. Demonstrations were held in 60 Italian cities and a flood of mail was sent to the American embassy in Paris. Demonstrations followed in a number of Latin American cities. Anatole France, veteran of the campaign for Alfred Dreyfus and recipient of the 1921 Nobel Prize for Literature, wrote an \"Appeal to the American People\": \"The death of Sacco and Vanzetti will make martyrs of them and cover you with shame. You are a great people. You ought to be a just people.\"\n\nIn 1921, most of the nation had not yet heard of Sacco and Vanzetti. Brief mention of the conviction appeared on page three of the New York Times. Defense attorney Moore radicalized and politicized the process by discussing Sacco and Vanzetti's anarchist beliefs, attempting to suggest that they were prosecuted primarily for their political beliefs and the trial was part of a government plan to stop the anarchist movement in the United States. His efforts helped stir up support but was so costly that he was eventually dismissed from the defense team.\n\nThe Sacco-Vanzetti Defense Committee was formed on May 9, 1920, immediately following the arrests, by a group of fellow anarchists, headed by Vanzetti's 23-year-old friend Aldino Felicani. Over the next seven years, it raised $300,000. Defense attorney Fred Moore drew on its funds for his investigations. Differences arose when Moore tried to determine who had committed the Braintree crimes over objections from anarchists that he was doing the government's work. After the Committee hired William G. Thompson to manage the legal defense, he objected to its propaganda efforts.\n\nA Defense Committee publicist wrote an article about the first trial that was published in \"The New Republic\". In the winter of 1920–1921, the Defense Committee sent stories to labor union publications every week. It produced pamphlets with titles like \"Fangs at Labor's Throat\", sometimes printing thousands of copies. It sent speakers to Italian communities in factory towns and mining camps. The Committee eventually added staff from outside the anarchist movement, notably Mary Donovan, who had experience as a labor leader and Sinn Féin organizer. In 1927, she and Felicani together recruited Gardner Jackson, a \"Boston Globe\" reporter from a wealthy family, to manage publicity and serve as a mediator between the Committee's anarchists and the growing number of supporters with more liberal political views, who included socialites, lawyers, and intellectuals.\n\nJackson bridged the gap between the radicals and the social elite so well that Sacco thanked him a few weeks before his execution: \nWe are one heart, but unfortunately we represent two different class...But, whenever the heart of one of the upper class join with the exploited workers for the struggle of the right in the human feeling is the feel of an spontaneous attraction and brotherly love to one another.\n\nThe noted American author John Dos Passos joined the committee and wrote its 127-page official review of the case: \"Facing the Chair: Story of Americanization of Two Foreignborn Workmen\". Dos Passos concluded it \"barely possible\" that Sacco might have committed murder as part of a class war, but that the soft-hearted Vanzetti was clearly innocent. \"Nobody in his right mind who was planning such a crime would take a man like that along,\" Dos Passos wrote of Vanzetti. After the executions, the Committee continued its work, helping to gather material that eventually appeared as \"The Letters of Sacco and Vanzetti\".\n\nMultiple separate motions for a new trial were denied by Judge Thayer. One motion, the so-called Hamilton-Proctor motion, involved the forensic ballistic evidence presented by the expert witnesses for the prosecution and defense. The prosecution's firearms expert, Charles Van Amburgh, had re-examined the evidence in preparation for the motion. By 1923, bullet comparison technology had improved somewhat, and Van Amburgh submitted photos of the bullets fired from Sacco's .32 Colt in support of the argument that they matched the bullet that killed Berardelli. In response, the controversial self-proclaimed \"firearms expert\" for the defense, Albert H. Hamilton, conducted an in-court demonstration involving two brand new Colt .32-caliber automatic pistols belonging to Hamilton, along with Sacco's .32 Colt of the same make and caliber. In front of Judge Thayer and the lawyers for both sides, Hamilton disassembled all three pistols and placed the major component parts – barrel, barrel bushing, recoil spring, frame, slide, and magazine – into three piles on the table before him. He explained the functions of each part and began to demonstrate how each was interchangeable, in the process intermingling the parts of all three pistols. Judge Thayer stopped Hamilton and demanded that he reassemble Sacco's pistol with its proper parts.\n\nOther motions focused on the jury foreman and a prosecution ballistics expert. In 1923, the defense filed an affidavit from a friend of the jury foreman, who swore that prior to the trial, the jury foreman had allegedly said of Sacco and Vanzetti, \"Damn them, they ought to hang them anyway!\" That same year, the defense read to the court an affidavit by Captain William Proctor (who had died shortly after conclusion of the trial) in which Proctor stated that he could not say that \"Bullet III\" was fired by Sacco's .32 Colt pistol. At the conclusion of the appeal hearings, Thayer denied all motions for a new trial on October 1, 1924.\n\nSeveral months later, in February 1924, Judge Thayer asked one of the firearms experts for the prosecution, Capt. Charles Van Amburgh, to reinspect Sacco's Colt and determine its condition. With District Attorney Katzmann present, Van Amburgh took the gun from the clerk and started to take it apart. Van Amburgh quickly noticed that the barrel to Sacco's gun was brand new, being still covered in the manufacturer's protective rust preventative. Judge Thayer began private hearings to determine who had tampered with the evidence by switching the barrel on Sacco's gun. During three weeks of hearings, Albert Hamilton and Captain Van Amburgh squared off, challenging each other's authority. Testimony suggested that Sacco's gun had been treated with little care, and frequently disassembled for inspection. New defense attorney William Thompson insisted that no one on his side could have switched the barrels \"unless they wanted to run their necks into a noose.\" Albert Hamilton swore he had only taken the gun apart while being watched by Judge Thayer. Judge Thayer made no finding as to who had switched the .32 Colt barrels, but ordered the rusty barrel returned to Sacco's Colt. After the hearing concluded, unannounced to Judge Thayer, Captain Van Amburgh took both Sacco's and Vanzetti's guns, along with the bullets and shells involved in the crime to his home where he kept them until a Boston Globe exposé revealed the misappropriation in 1960. Meanwhile, Van Amburgh bolstered his own credentials by writing an article on the case for True Detective Mysteries. The 1935 article charged that prior to the discovery of the gun barrel switch, Albert Hamilton had tried to walk out of the courtroom with Sacco's gun but was stopped by Judge Thayer. Although several historians of the case, including Francis Russell, have reported this story as factual, nowhere in transcripts of the private hearing on the gun barrel switch was this incident ever mentioned. The same year the True Detective article was published, a study of ballistics in the case concluded, \"what might have been almost indubitable evidence was in fact rendered more than useless by the bungling of the experts.\"\n\nThe defense appealed Thayer's denial of their motions to the Supreme Judicial Court (SJC), the highest level of the state's judicial system. Both sides presented arguments to its five judges on January 11–13, 1926. The SJC returned a unanimous ruling on May 12, 1926, upholding Judge Thayer's decisions. The Court did not have the authority to review the trial record as a whole or to judge the fairness of the case. Instead, the judges considered only whether Thayer had abused his discretion in the course of the trial. Thayer later claimed that the SJC had \"approved\" the verdicts, which advocates for the defendants protested as a misinterpretation of the Court's ruling, which only found \"no error\" in his individual rulings.\n\nIn November 1925, Celestino Medeiros, an ex-convict awaiting trial for murder, confessed to committing the Braintree crimes. He absolved Sacco and Vanzetti of participation. In May, once the SJC had denied their appeal and Medeiros was convicted, the defense investigated the details of Medeiros' story. Police interviews led them to the Morelli gang based in Providence, Rhode Island. They developed an alternative theory of the crime based on the gang’s history of shoe-factory robberies, connections to a car like that used in Braintree, and other details. Gang leader Joe Morelli bore a striking resemblance to Sacco.\n\nThe defense filed a motion for a new trial based on the Medeiros confession on May 26, 1926. In support of their motion they included 64 affidavits. The prosecution countered with 26 affidavits. When Thayer heard arguments from September 13 to 17, 1926, the defense, along with their Medeiros-Morelli theory of the crime, charged that the U.S. Justice Department was aiding the prosecution by withholding information obtained in its own investigation of the case. Attorney William Thompson made an explicitly political attack: \"A government which has come to value its own secrets more than it does the lives of its citizens has become a tyranny, whether you call it a republic, a monarchy, or anything else!\" Judge Thayer denied this motion for a new trial on October 23, 1926. After arguing against the credibility of Medeiros, he addressed the defense claims against the federal government, saying the defense was suffering from \"a new type of disease...a belief in the existence of something which in fact and truth has no such existence.\"\n\nThree days later, the \"Boston Herald\" responded to Thayer's decision by reversing its longstanding position and calling for a new trial. Its editorial, \"We Submit\", earned its author a Pulitzer Prize. No other newspapers followed suit.\n\nThe defense promptly appealed again to the Supreme Judicial Court and presented their arguments on January 27 and 28, 1927. While the appeal was under consideration, Harvard law professor and future Supreme Court Justice Felix Frankfurter published an article in the \"Atlantic Monthly\" arguing for a retrial. He noted that the SJC had already taken a very narrow view of its authority when considering the first appeal, and called upon the court to review the entire record of the case. He called their attention to Thayer's lengthy statement that accompanied his denial of the Madeiros appeal, describing it as \"a farrago of misquotations, misrepresentations, suppressions, and mutilations,\" \"honeycombed with demonstrable errors.\"\n\nAt the same time, Major Calvin Goddard was a ballistics expert who had helped pioneer the use of the comparison microscope in forensic ballistic research. He offered to conduct an independent examination of the gun and bullet forensic evidence by using techniques that he had developed for use with the comparison microscope. Goddard first offered to conduct a new forensic examination for the defense, which rejected it, and then to the prosecution, which accepted his offer. Using the comparison microscope, Goddard compared \"Bullet III\" and a .32 Auto shell casing found at the Braintree shooting with that of several .32 Auto test cartridges fired from Sacco's .32 Colt automatic pistol. Goddard concluded that not only did \"Bullet III\" match the rifling marks found on the barrel of Sacco's .32 Colt pistol, but that scratches made by the firing pin of Sacco's .32 Colt on the primers of spent shell casings test-fired from Sacco's Colt matched those found on the primer of a spent shell casing recovered at the Braintree murder scene. More sophisticated comparative examinations in 1935, 1961, and 1983 each reconfirmed the opinion that the bullet the prosecution said killed Berardelli, and one of the cartridge cases introduced into evidence, were fired in Sacco's .32 Colt automatic. However, in his book on new evidence in the Sacco and Vanzetti case, historian David E. Kaiser wrote that Bullet III and its shell casing, as presented, had been substituted by the prosecution and were not genuinely from the scene.\n\nThe Supreme Judicial Court denied the Madeiros appeal on April 5, 1927. Summarizing the decision, \"The New York Times\" said that the SJC had determined that \"the judge had a right to rule as he did\" but that the SJC \"did not deny the validity of the new evidence.\" The SJC also said: \"It is not imperative that a new trial be granted even though evidence is newly discovered and, if presented to a jury, would justify a different verdict.\"\n\nMany socialists and intellectuals campaigned for a retrial without success. John Dos Passos came to Boston to cover the case as a journalist, stayed to author a pamphlet called \"Facing the Chair\", and was arrested in a demonstration on August 10, 1927, along with Dorothy Parker. After being arrested while picketing the State House, the poet Edna St. Vincent Millay pleaded her case to the governor in person and then wrote an appeal: \"I cry to you with a million voices: answer our doubt...There is need in Massachusetts of a great man tonight.\"\n\nOthers who wrote to Fuller or signed petitions included Albert Einstein, George Bernard Shaw and H. G. Wells. The president of the American Federation of Labor cited \"the long period of time intervening between the commission of the crime and the final decision of the Court\" as well as \"the mental and physical anguish which Sacco and Vanzetti must have undergone during the past seven years\" in a telegram to the governor.\n\nBenito Mussolini, the target of two anarchist assassination attempts, quietly made inquiries through diplomatic channels and was prepared to ask Governor Fuller to commute the sentences if it appeared his request would be granted.\n\nIn 1926, a bomb presumed to be the work of anarchists destroyed the house of Samuel Johnson, the brother of Simon Johnson and owner of the garage that called police the night of Sacco and Vanzetti's arrest.\n\nIn August 1927, the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) called for a three-day nationwide walkout to protest the pending executions. The most notable response came in the Walsenburg coal district of Colorado, where 1,132 out of 1,167 miners participated in the walkout. It led to the Colorado coal strike of 1927.\n\nFor their part, Sacco and Vanzetti seemed to alternate between moods of defiance, vengeance, resignation, and despair. The June 1926 issue of \"Protesta Umana,\" published by their Defense Committee, carried an article signed by Sacco and Vanzetti that appealed for retaliation by their colleagues. In the article, Vanzetti wrote, \"I will try to see Thayer death before his pronunciation of our sentence,\" and asked fellow anarchists for \"revenge, revenge in our names and the names of our living and dead.\" The article concluded by urging readers to recall \"La Salute è in voi!\", Galleani's bomb-making manual.\n\nBoth wrote dozens of letters asserting their innocence, insisting they had been framed because they were anarchists. Their conduct in prison consistently impressed guards and wardens. In 1927, the Dedham jail chaplain wrote to the head of an investigatory commission that he had seen no evidence of guilt or remorse on Sacco's part. Vanzetti impressed fellow prisoners at Charlestown State Prison as a bookish intellectual, incapable of committing any violent crime. Novelist John Dos Passos, who visited both men in jail, observed of Vanzetti, \"nobody in his right mind who was planning such a crime would take a man like that along.\" Vanzetti developed his command of English to such a degree that journalist Murray Kempton later described him as \"the greatest writer of English in our century to learn his craft, do his work, and die all in the space of seven years.\"\n\nOn April 9, 1927, Judge Thayer heard final statements from Sacco and Vanzetti. In a lengthy speech Vanzetti said:\n\nI would not wish to a dog or to a snake, to the most low and misfortunate creature of the earth, I would not wish to any of them what I have had to suffer for things that I am not guilty of. But my conviction is that I have suffered for things that I am guilty of. I am suffering because I am a radical and indeed I am a radical; I have suffered because I am an Italian and indeed I am an Italian...if you could execute me two times, and if I could be reborn two other times, I would live again to do what I have done already.\n\nThayer declared that the responsibility for the conviction rested solely with the jury's determination of guilt. \"The Court has absolutely nothing to do with that question.\" He sentenced each of them to \"suffer the punishment of death by the passage of a current of electricity through your body\" during the week beginning July 10. He twice postponed the execution date while the governor considered requests for clemency.\n\nOn May 10, a package bomb addressed to Governor Fuller was intercepted in the Boston post office.\n\nIn response to public protests that greeted the sentencing, Massachusetts Governor Alvan T. Fuller faced last-minute appeals to grant clemency to Sacco and Vanzetti. On June 1, 1927, he appointed an Advisory Committee of three: President Abbott Lawrence Lowell of Harvard, President Samuel Wesley Stratton of MIT, and Probate Judge Robert Grant. They were presented with the task of reviewing the trial to determine whether it had been fair. Lowell's appointment was generally well received, for though he had controversy in his past, he had also at times demonstrated an independent streak. The defense attorneys considered resigning when they determined that the Committee was biased against the defendants, but some of the defendants' most prominent supporters, including Harvard Law Professor Felix Frankfurter and Judge Julian W. Mack of the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, persuaded them to stay because Lowell \"was not entirely hopeless.\"\n\nOne of the defense attorneys, though ultimately very critical of the Committee's work, thought the Committee members were not really capable of the task the Governor set for them: \nNo member of the Committee had the essential sophistication that comes with experience in the trial of criminal cases...The high positions in the community held by the members of the Committee obscured the fact that they were not really qualified to perform the difficult task assigned to them. He also thought that the Committee, particularly Lowell, imagined it could use its fresh and more powerful analytical abilities to outperform the efforts of those who had worked on the case for years, even finding evidence of guilt that professional prosecutors had discarded.\n\nGrant was another establishment figure, a probate court judge from 1893 to 1923 and an Overseer of Harvard University from 1896 to 1921, and the author of a dozen popular novels. Some criticized Grant's appointment to the Committee, with one defense lawyer saying he \"had a black-tie class concept of life around him,\" but Harold Laski in a conversation at the time found him \"moderate.\" Others cited evidence of xenophobia in some of his novels, references to \"riff-raff\" and a variety of racial slurs. His biographer allows that he was \"not a good choice,\" not a legal scholar, and handicapped by age. Stratton, the one member who was not a \"Boston Brahmin,\" maintained the lowest public profile of the three and hardly spoke during its hearings.\n\nIn their earlier appeals, the defense was limited to the trial record. The Governor's Committee, however, was not a judicial proceeding, so Judge Thayer's comments outside the courtroom could be used to demonstrate his bias. Once Thayer told reporters that \"No long-haired anarchist from California can run this court!\" According to the affidavits of eyewitnesses, Thayer also lectured members of his clubs, calling Sacco and Vanzetti \"Bolsheviki!\" and saying he would \"get them good and proper\". During the Dedham trial's first week, Thayer said to reporters: \"Did you ever see a case in which so many leaflets and circulars have been spread...saying people couldn't get a fair trial in Massachusetts? You wait till I give my charge to the jury, I'll show them!\" In 1924, Thayer confronted a Massachusetts lawyer at Dartmouth, his \"alma mater\", and said: \"Did you see what I did with those anarchistic bastards the other day. I guess that will hold them for a while... Let them go to the Supreme Court now and see what they can get out of them.\" The Committee knew that, following the verdict, \"Boston Globe\" reporter Frank Sibley, who had covered the trial, wrote a protest to the Massachusetts attorney general condemning Thayer's blatant bias. Thayer's behavior both inside the courtroom and outside of it had become a public issue, with the \"New York World\" attacking Thayer as \"an agitated little man looking for publicity and utterly impervious to the ethical standards one has the right to expect of a man presiding in a capital case.\"\n\nOn July 12–13, 1927, following testimony by the defense firearms expert Albert H. Hamilton before the Committee, the Assistant District Attorney for Massachusetts, Dudley P. Ranney, took the opportunity to cross-examine Hamilton. He submitted affidavits questioning Hamilton's credentials as well as his performance during the New York trial of Charles Stielow, in which Hamilton's testimony linking rifling marks to a bullet used to kill the victim nearly sent an innocent man to the electric chair. The Committee also heard from Braintree's police chief who told them he had found the cap on Pearl Street, allegedly dropped by Sacco during the crime, a full 24-hours after the getaway car had fled the scene. The chief doubted the cap belonged to Sacco and called the whole trial a contest \"to see who could tell the biggest lies.\"\n\nAfter two weeks of hearing witnesses and reviewing evidence, the Committee determined that the trial had been fair and a new trial was not warranted. They assessed the charges against Thayer as well. Their criticism, using words provided by Judge Grant, was direct: \"He ought not to have talked about the case off the bench, and doing so was a grave breach of judicial decorum.\" But they also found some of the charges about his statements unbelievable or exaggerated, and they determined that anything he might have said had no impact on the trial. The panel's reading of the trial transcript convinced them that Thayer \"tried to be scrupulously fair.\" The Committee also reported that the trial jurors were almost unanimous in praising Thayer's conduct of the trial.\n\nA defense attorney later noted ruefully that the release of the Committee's report \"abruptly stilled the burgeoning doubts among the leaders of opinion in New England.\" Supporters of the convicted men denounced the Committee. Harold Laski told Holmes that the Committee's work showed that Lowell's \"loyalty to his class ... transcended his ideas of logic and justice.\"\n\nThe executions were scheduled for midnight between August 22 and 23, 1927. On August 15, a bomb exploded at the home of one of the Dedham jurors. On Sunday, August 21, more than 20,000 protesters assembled on Boston Common.\n\nSacco and Vanzetti awaited execution in their cells at Charlestown State Prison, and both men refused a priest several times on their last day, because they were militant atheists. Their attorney William Thompson asked Vanzetti to make a statement opposing violent retaliation for his death and they discussed forgiving one's enemies. Thompson also asked Vanzetti to swear to his and Sacco's innocence one last time, and Vanzetti did. Celestino Madeiros, whose execution had been delayed in case his testimony was required at another trial of Sacco and Vanzetti, was executed first. Sacco was next and walked quietly to the electric chair, then shouted \"Farewell, mother.\" Vanzetti, in his final moments, shook hands with guards and thanked them for their kind treatment, read a statement proclaiming his innocence, and finally said, \"I wish to forgive some people for what they are now doing to me.\" All three executions were carried out by Robert G. Elliott, the state executioner. Following the executions, death masks were made of the men.\n\nViolent demonstrations swept through many cities the next day, including Geneva, London, Paris, Amsterdam, and Tokyo. In South America wildcat strikes closed factories. Three died in Germany, and protesters in Johannesburg burned an American flag outside the American embassy. It has been alleged that some of these activities were organized by the Communist Party.\n\nAt Langone Funeral Home in Boston's North End, more than 10,000 mourners viewed Sacco and Vanzetti in open caskets over two days. At the funeral parlor, a wreath over the caskets announced \"In attesa l'ora della vendetta\" (Awaiting the hour of vengeance). On Sunday, August 28, a two-hour funeral procession bearing huge floral tributes moved through the city. Thousands of marchers took part in the procession, and over 200,000 came out to watch. Police blocked the route, which passed the State House, and at one point mourners and the police clashed. The hearses reached Forest Hills Cemetery where, after a brief eulogy, the bodies were cremated. The \"Boston Globe\" called it \"one of the most tremendous funerals of modern times.\"\nWill H. Hays, head of the motion picture industry's umbrella organization, ordered all film of the funeral procession destroyed.\n\nSacco's ashes were sent to Torremaggiore, the town of his birth, where they are interred at the base of a monument erected in 1998. Vanzetti's ashes were buried with his mother in Villafalletto.\n\nItalian anarchist Severino Di Giovanni, one of the most vocal supporters of Sacco and Vanzetti in Argentina, bombed the American embassy in Buenos Aires a few hours after the two men were sentenced to death. A few days after the executions, Sacco's widow thanked Di Giovanni by letter for his support and added that the director of the tobacco firm \"Combinados\" had offered to produce a cigarette brand named \"Sacco & Vanzetti\". On November 26, 1927, Di Giovanni and others bombed a Combinados tobacco shop. On December 24, 1927, Di Giovanni blew up the headquarters of The National City Bank of New York and of the Bank of Boston in Buenos Aires in apparent protest of the execution. In December 1928, Di Giovanni and others failed in an attempt to bomb the train in which President-elect Herbert Hoover was traveling during his visit to Argentina.\n\nThree months later, bombs exploded in the New York subway, in a Philadelphia church, and at the home of the mayor of Baltimore. The house of one of the jurors in the Dedham trial was bombed, throwing him and his family from their beds. On May 18, 1928, a bomb destroyed the front porch of the home of executioner Robert Elliott. As late as 1932, Judge Thayer's home was wrecked and his wife and housekeeper were injured in a bomb blast. Afterward, Thayer lived permanently at his club in Boston, guarded 24 hours a day until his death on April 18, 1933.\n\nIn October 1927, H. G. Wells wrote an essay that discussed the case at length. He called it \"a case like the Dreyfus case, by which the soul of a people is tested and displayed.\" He felt that Americans failed to understand what about the case roused European opinion:\n\nThe guilt or innocence of these two Italians is not the issue that has excited the opinion of the world. Possibly they were actual murderers, and still more possibly they knew more than they would admit about the crime... Europe is not \"retrying\" Sacco and Vanzetti or anything of the sort. It is saying what it thinks of Judge Thayer. Executing political opponents as political opponents after the fashion of Mussolini and Moscow we can understand, or bandits as bandits; but this business of trying and executing murderers as Reds, or Reds as murderers, seems to be a new and very frightening line for the courts of a State in the most powerful and civilized Union on earth to pursue.\n\nHe used the case to complain that Americans were too sensitive to foreign criticism: \"One can scarcely let a sentence that is not highly flattering glance across the Atlantic without some American blowing up.\"\n\nIn 1928, Upton Sinclair published his novel \"Boston\", an indictment of the American judicial system. He explored Vanzetti's life and writings, as its focus, and mixed fictional characters with historical participants in the trials. Though his portrait of Vanzetti was entirely sympathetic, Sinclair disappointed advocates for the defense by failing to absolve Sacco and Vanzetti of the crimes, however much he argued that their trial had been unjust. Years later, he explained: \"Some of the things I told displeased the fanatical believers; but having portrayed the aristocrats as they were, I had to do the same thing for the anarchists.\" While doing research for the book, Sinclair was told confidentially by Sacco and Vanzetti's former lawyer Fred H. Moore that the two were guilty and that he (Moore) had supplied them with fake alibis; Sinclair was inclined to believe that that was, indeed, the case, and later referred to this as an \"ethical problem\", but he did not include the information about the conversation with Moore in his book.\n\nWhen the letters Sacco and Vanzetti wrote appeared in print in 1928, journalist Walter Lippmann commented: \"If Sacco and Vanzetti were professional bandits, then historians and biographers who attempt to deduce character from personal documents might as well shut up shop. By every test that I know of for judging character, these are the letters of innocent men.\" On January 3, 1929, as Gov. Fuller left the inauguration of his successor, he found a copy of the \"Letters\" thrust at him by someone in the crowd. He knocked it to the ground \"with an exclamation of contempt.\"\n\nIntellectual and literary supporters of Sacco and Vanzetti continued to speak out. In 1936, on the day when Harvard celebrated its 300th anniversary, 28 Harvard alumni issued a statement attacking the University's retired President Lowell for his role on the Governor's Advisory Committee in 1927. They included Heywood Broun, Malcolm Cowley, Granville Hicks, and John Dos Passos.\n\nFollowing the SJC's assertion that it could not order a new trial even if there was new evidence that \"would justify a different verdict,\" a movement for \"drastic reform\" quickly took shape in Boston's legal community. In December 1927, four months after the executions, the Massachusetts Judicial Council cited the Sacco and Vanzetti case as evidence of \"serious defects in our methods of administering justice.\" It proposed a series of changes designed to appeal to both sides of the political divide, including restrictions on the number and timing of appeals. Its principal proposal addressed the SJC's right to review. It argued that a judge would benefit from a full review of a trial, and that no one man should bear the burden in a capital case. A review could defend a judge whose decisions were challenged and make it less likely that a governor would be drawn into a case. It asked for the SJC to have right to order a new trial \"upon any ground if the interests of justice appear to inquire it.\" Governor Fuller endorsed the proposal in his January 1928 annual message.\n\nThe Judicial Council repeated its recommendations in 1937 and 1938. Finally, in 1939, the language it had proposed was adopted. Since that time, the SJC has been required to review all death penalty cases, to consider the entire case record, and to affirm or overturn the verdict on the law and on the evidence or \"for any other reason that justice may require\" (Mass. General Laws, 1939 ch. 341)\n\nMany historians, especially legal historians, have concluded the Sacco and Vanzetti prosecution, trial, and aftermath constituted a blatant disregard for political civil liberties, and especially criticize Thayer's decision to deny a retrial.\n\nJohn W. Johnson has said that the authorities and jurors were influenced by strong anti-Italian prejudice and the prejudice against immigrants widely held at the time, especially in New England. Against charges of racism and racial prejudice, Paul Avrich and Brenda and James Lutz point out that both men were known anarchist members of a militant organization, members of which had been conducting a violent campaign of bombing and attempted assassinations, acts condemned by most Americans of all backgrounds. Though in general anarchist groups did not finance their militant activities through bank robberies, a fact noted by the investigators of the Bureau of Investigation, this was not true of the Galleanist group. Mario Buda readily told an interviewer: \"Andavamo a prenderli dove c'erano\" (\"We used to go and get it [money] where it was\") – meaning factories and banks. The guard Berardelli was also Italian.\n\nJohnson and Avrich suggest that the government prosecuted Sacco and Vanzetti for the robbery-murders as a convenient means to put a stop to their militant activities as Galleanists, whose bombing campaign at the time posed a lethal threat, both to the government and to many Americans. Faced with a secretive underground group whose members resisted interrogation and believed in their cause, Federal and local officials using conventional law enforcement tactics had been repeatedly stymied in their efforts to identify all members of the group or to collect enough evidence for a prosecution.\n\nMost historians believe that Sacco and Vanzetti were involved at some level in the Galleanist bombing campaign, although their precise roles have not been determined. In 1955, Charles Poggi, a longtime anarchist and American citizen, traveled to Savignano in the Emilia-Romagna region of Italy to visit old comrades, including the Galleanists' principal bombmaker, Mario \"Mike\" Buda. While discussing the Braintree robbery, Buda told Poggi, \"Sacco c'era\" (Sacco was there). Poggi added that he \"had a strong feeling that Buda himself was one of the robbers, though I didn't ask him and he didn't say.\" Whether Buda and Ferruccio Coacci, whose shared rental house contained the manufacturer's diagram of a .32 Savage automatic pistol (matching the .32 Savage pistol believed to have been used to shoot both Berardelli and Parmenter), had also participated in the Braintree robbery and murders would remain a matter of speculation.\n\nIn 1941, anarchist leader Carlo Tresca, a member of the Sacco and Vanzetti Defense Committee, told Max Eastman, \"Sacco was guilty but Vanzetti was innocent\", although it is clear from his statement that Tresca equated guilt only with the act of pulling the trigger, i.e., Vanzetti was not the principal triggerman in Tresca's view, but was an accomplice to Sacco. This conception of innocence is in sharp contrast to the legal one. Both \"The Nation\" and \"The New Republic\" refused to publish Tresca's revelation, which Eastman said occurred after he pressed Tresca for the truth about the two men's involvement in the shooting. The story finally appeared in \"National Review\" in October 1961. Others who had known Tresca confirmed that he had made similar statements to them, but Tresca's daughter insisted her father never hinted at Sacco's guilt. Others attributed Tresca's revelations to his disagreements with the Galleanists.\n\nLabor organizer Anthony Ramuglia, an anarchist in the 1920s, said in 1952 that a Boston anarchist group had asked him to be a false alibi witness for Sacco. After agreeing, he had remembered that he had been in jail on the day in question, so he could not testify.\n\nBoth Sacco and Vanzetti had previously fled to Mexico, changing their names in order to evade draft registration, a fact the prosecutor in their murder trial used to demonstrate their lack of patriotism and which they were not allowed to rebut. Sacco and Vanzetti's supporters would later argue that the men fled the country to avoid persecution and conscription; their critics said they left to escape detection and arrest for militant and seditious activities in the United States. However, a 1953 Italian history of anarchism written by anonymous colleagues revealed a different motivation:\n\nSeveral dozen Italian anarchists left the United States for Mexico. Some have suggested they did so because of cowardice. Nothing could be more false. The idea to go to Mexico arose in the minds of several comrades who were alarmed by the idea that, remaining in the United States, they would be forcibly restrained from leaving for Europe, where the revolution that had burst out in Russia that February promised to spread all over the continent.\n\nIn October 1961, ballistic tests were run with improved technology on Sacco's Colt semi-automatic pistol. The results confirmed that the bullet that killed Berardelli in 1920 was fired from Sacco's pistol. The Thayer court's habit of mistakenly referring to Sacco's .32 Colt pistol as well as any other automatic pistol as a \"revolver\" (a popular custom of the day) has sometimes mystified later-generation researchers attempting to follow the forensic evidence trail.\n\nIn 1987, Charlie Whipple, a former \"Boston Globe\" editorial page editor, revealed a conversation that he had with Sergeant Edward J. Seibolt in 1937. According to Whipple, Seibolt said that \"we switched the murder weapon in that case\", but indicated that he would deny this if Whipple ever printed it. However, at the time of the Sacco and Vanzetti trial, Seibolt was only a patrolman, and did not work in the Boston Police ballistics department; Seibolt died in 1961 without corroborating Whipple's story. In 1935, Captain Charles Van Amburgh, a key ballistics witness for the prosecution, wrote a six-part article on the case for a pulp detective magazine. Van Amburgh described a scene in which Thayer caught defense ballistics expert Hamilton trying to leave the courtroom with Sacco's gun. However, Thayer said nothing about such a move during the hearing on the gun barrel switch and refused to blame either side. Following the private hearing on the gun barrel switch, Van Amburgh kept Sacco's gun in his house, where it remained until the \"Boston Globe\" did an exposé in 1960.\n\nIn 1973, a former mobster published a confession by Frank \"Butsy\" Morelli, Joe's brother. \"We whacked them out, we killed those guys in the robbery,\" Butsy Morelli told Vincent Teresa. \"These two greaseballs Sacco and Vanzetti took it on the chin.\"\n\nBefore his death in June 1982, Giovanni Gambera, a member of the four-person team of anarchist leaders who met shortly after the arrest of Sacco and Vanzetti to plan their defense, told his son that \"everyone [in the anarchist inner circle] knew that Sacco was guilty and that Vanzetti was innocent as far as the actual participation in killing.\"\n\nMonths before he died, the distinguished jurist Charles E. Wyzanski, Jr., who had presided for 45 years on the U.S. District Court in Massachusetts, wrote to Russell stating, \"I myself am persuaded by your writings that Sacco was guilty.\" The judge's assessment was significant, because he was one of Felix Frankfurter's \"Hot Dogs,\" and Justice Frankfurter had advocated his appointment to the federal bench.\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" published an article on December 24, 2005, \"Sinclair Letter Turns Out to Be Another Expose\", which references a newly discovered letter from Upton Sinclair to attorney John Beardsley in which Sinclair, a socialist writer famous for his muckraking novels, revealed a conversation with Fred Moore, attorney for Sacco and Vanzetti. In that conversation, in response to Sinclair's request for the truth, Moore stated that both Sacco and Vanzetti were in fact guilty, and that Moore had fabricated their alibis in an attempt to avoid a guilty verdict. The \"Los Angeles Times\" interprets subsequent letters as indicating that, to avoid loss of sales to his radical readership, particularly abroad, and due to fears for his own safety, Sinclair didn't change the premise of his novel in that respect. However, Sinclair also expressed in the letters in question doubts as to whether Moore deserved to be trusted in the first place, and he did not actually assert the innocence of the two in the novel, focusing instead on the argument that the trial they got was not fair.\n\nIn 1977, as the 50th anniversary of the executions approached, Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis asked the Office of the Governor's Legal Counsel to report on \"whether there are substantial grounds for believing–at least in the light of the legal standards of today–that Sacco and Vanzetti were unfairly convicted and executed\" and to recommend appropriate action. The resulting \"Report to the Governor in the Matter of Sacco and Vanzetti\" detailed grounds for doubting that the trial was conducted fairly in the first instance, and argued as well that such doubts were only reinforced by \"later-discovered or later-disclosed evidence.\" The Report questioned prejudicial cross-examination that the trial judge allowed, the judge's hostility, the fragmentary nature of the evidence, and eyewitness testimony that came to light after the trial. It found the judge's charge to the jury troubling for the way it emphasized the defendants' behavior at the time of their arrest and highlighted certain physical evidence that was later called into question. The Report also dismissed the argument that the trial had been subject to judicial review, noting that \"the system for reviewing murder cases at the time ... failed to provide the safeguards now present.\"\n\nBased on recommendations of the Office of Legal Counsel, Dukakis declared August 23, 1977, the 50th anniversary of their execution, as Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti Memorial Day. His proclamation, issued in English and Italian, stated that Sacco and Vanzetti had been unfairly tried and convicted and that \"any disgrace should be forever removed from their names.\" He did not pardon them, because that would imply they were guilty. Neither did he assert their innocence. A resolution to censure Dukakis failed in the Massachusetts Senate by a vote of 23 to 12. Dukakis later expressed regret only for not reaching out to the families of the victims of the crime.\n\nA memorial committee tried to present a plaster cast executed in 1937 by Gutzon Borglum, the sculptor of Mount Rushmore, to Massachusetts governors and Boston mayors in 1937, 1947, and 1957 without success. On August 23, 1997, on the 70th anniversary of the Sacco and Vanzetti executions, Boston's first Italian-American Mayor, Thomas Menino, and the Italian-American Governor of Massachusetts, Paul Cellucci, unveiled the work at the Boston Public Library, where it remains on display.\n\nThe city's acceptance of this piece of artwork is not intended to reopen debate about the guilt or innocence of Sacco and Vanzetti,\" Menino said. \"It is intended to remind us of the dangers of miscarried justice, and the right we all have to a fair trial.The event occasioned a renewed debate about the fairness of the trial in the editorial pages of the \"Boston Herald\".\nA mosaic mural portraying the trial of Sacco and Vanzetti is installed on the main campus of Syracuse University.\nIn Braintree, Massachusetts on the corner of French Avenue and Pearl Street, a memorial marks the site of the murders. The memorial has two exhibits. The first is a weatherproof poster that discusses the crime and the subsequent trial. The second exhibit is a metal plaque that memorializes the victims of the crime.\n\nThe \"Sacco and Vanzetti Centuria\" was an American anarchist military unit in the Durruti Column that fought in the Spanish Civil War.\n\nMany sites in the former USSR are named after \"Sacco and Vanzetti\": for example, a beer production facility in Moscow, a kolkhoz in Donetsk region, Ukraine; and a street and an apartment complex in Yekaterinburg.; 'Sacco and Vanzetti' was also a popular brand of Russian pencil from 1930–2007. Numerous towns in Italy have streets named after Sacco and Vanzetti, including Via Sacco-Vanzetti in Torremaggiore, Sacco's home town; and Villafalletto, Vanzetti's.\n\nIn 2017, as part of an Eagle Scout project, a plaque was placed outside of Norfolk Superior Court commemorating the trial.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33092539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33092539", "title": "Section des sourds et malentendants socialistes", "text": "Section des sourds et malentendants socialistes\n\nThe Section des Sourds et Malentendants Socialistes : Organization of Socialist Deaf and Hard of Hearing People (SSMS) is a French political organization. This is an organization of French policy of all activists, deaf supporters, all those who want to build a different future at the left. It is an organization of reflection and proposals on socialism, on the issues of deafness and disability.\n\nA section of the deaf in Paris socialists was existed in 1999 in Paris with the first Secretary of section : Patrick Didden, and Christophe Le Gall, Rachid Mimoun, Daniel Hureau (Founder of the League for the Rights of the Deaf). After reaching 60 members, it has unfortunately disappeared for lack of militants, because of statutory restrictions about geography, imposed by the Socialist Federation of Paris. Antennas have existed in Toulouse, Strasbourg, Lille.\n\nCampaigners deaf socialist meet difficulties of integration in the local sections of the Socialist Party: isolation, difficulty of communication, lack of accessibility of information of their party in despite their high motivation to be full participants, their thirst for recognition, their willingness to go beyond the associative framework, for to all areas. For this, a group of deaf activists was formed November 26, 2006. This group has been active in the presidential campaign and made accessible to the presidential program of Ségolène Royal.\n\nIn 2010, the Parti Socialiste and Charlotte Brun, National Secretary are aware of the difficulties deaf activists. A section of Deaf and Hard of Hearing Socialists (SSMS), was created June 19, 2010 by Raphaël Bouton and Joël Chalude sponsored by Charlotte Brun, national secretary in charge of the elderly, disability and dependency.\n\nThe SSMS is an association law 1901. Although the SSMS is not comply with the statutes of the Parti Socialiste, but it is a thematic local group of the Parti Socialiste.\n\nThe association maintains contact with its European counterparts via Deaf European Socialists - Sourds Socialistes Européens (DES-SES).\n\nIt also participates in events organized by the parti socialiste at the national level (Congress, Universities) and federal (Fêtes de la Rose, federal commissions). The SSMS has several regional offices in Brest, Dijon, Périgueux, Pau, Strasbourg, Nantes, Valenciennes ...\n\nShe translated many documents of the Parti Socialiste in French Sign Language (LSF).\n\nThe SSMS militates at the national level and in all departments to enable people with disabilities access to equal rights and the exercise of their citizenship.\n\nRaphaël Bouton is the First Secretary of the SSMS since June 19, 2010. She was unanimously re-elected September 10, 2011.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8419970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8419970", "title": "Sidewalk counseling", "text": "Sidewalk counseling\n\nSidewalk counseling, also known as sidewalk interference, is a form of anti-abortion activism conducted outside abortion clinics. Activists seek to communicate with those entering the building, or with passersby in general, in an effort to persuade them not to have an abortion or to reconsider their position on the morality of abortion. They do so by trying to engage in conversation, displaying signs, distributing literature, and/or giving directions to a nearby crisis pregnancy center.\n\nSome anti-abortion organizations offer programs designed to train people in such activism. The American Life League publishes \"The Sidewalk Counselor's Guidebook\" on its web site.\n\nThe \"Chicago Method\" is an approach to sidewalk counseling that involves giving those about to enter an abortion facility copies of lawsuits filed against the facility or its physicians. The name comes from the fact that it was first used by Pro-Life Action League in Chicago. Brochures summarizing the lawsuits, scandals, or negative findings of inspection reports can also be used. The intent of the Chicago Method is to dissuade women from obtaining abortion services at the facility.\n\nSeveral jurisdictions in the United States have \"buffer zone\" laws which limit how close to a clinic protesters can approach. In the 1997 court case, \"Schenck v. Pro-Choice Network of Western New York\", anti-abortion activist Paul Schenck challenged a U.S. district court injunction which restricted demonstrations to within 15-feet of four abortion clinics in New York state. The case came before the Supreme Court, where Justices ruled 8–1 to uphold the constitutionality of a \"fixed buffer zone\" (the area around the clinic itself), but not that of a \"floating buffer zone\" (the area around objects in transit such as cars or people).\n\nIn 1995, the \"Access to Abortion Services Act\" was passed in British Columbia, Canada. It defines \"sidewalk interference\" as any attempt at \"advising or persuading, or attempting to advise or persuade, a person to refrain from making use of abortion services,\" or \"informing or attempting to inform a person concerning issues related to abortion services.\" It prevents such activities from being carried out within up to 50 metres of an abortion-providing facility. The \"Safe Access to Abortion Services Act, 2017\" in Ontario also prohibits \"Advising a person to refrain from accessing abortion services\" within a defined buffer zone of up to 150 metres.\n\nPro-choice groups have criticized the practice of sidewalk counseling as harassment. Anti-abortion advocates in the U.S. maintain that it is a form of free speech protected by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "36847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36847", "title": "Sports governing body", "text": "Sports governing body\n\nA sports governing body is a sports organization that has a regulatory or sanctioning function. Sports governing bodies come in various forms, and have a variety of regulatory functions. Examples of this can include disciplinary action for rule infractions and deciding on rule changes in the sport that they govern. Governing bodies have different scopes. They may cover a range of sport at an International level, such as the International Olympic Committee and the International Paralympic Committee, or only a single sport at a national level, such as the Rugby Football League. National bodies may or may not be affiliated to international bodies for the same sport. The first international federations were formed at the end of the 19th century.\n\nEvery sport has a different governing body that can define the way that the sport operates through its affiliated clubs and societies. This is because sports have different levels of difficulty and skill, so they can try to organize the people playing their sport by ability and by age. The different types of sport governing bodies are all shown below:\n\nInternational sports federations are responsible for one sport (or a group of similar sport disciplines, such as aquatics or skiing). They create a common set of rules and organize international competitions. The promotion of the sport are also a task of an international federation.\n\nTrusts are organizations or groups that have control over money that will be used to help someone else, such as the Youth Sport Trust.\n\nNational federations have the same objectives as an international federation, but within the scope of one country, or even part of a country, as the name implies. They support local clubs and are often responsible for national teams. National Olympic Committees and National Paralympic Committees are both a type of National Federation, as they are responsible for a country's participation in the Olympic Games and in the Paralympic Games respectively. However, a national governing body (NGB) can be different from a national federation due to government recognition requirements. Also, NGBs can be a supraorganization representing a range of unrelated organizations operating in a particular sport as evident in the example of the Northern Ireland Federation of Sub-Aqua Clubs.\n\nMulti-sport event organizers are responsible for the organization of an event that includes more than one sport. The best-known example is the International Olympic Committee (IOC), the organizer of the modern Olympic Games. General sports organizations are responsible for sports related topics, usually for a certain group, such as the Catholic or Jewish sports groups. General sports organizations can also exist for the army and other groups, but they usually are medium-sized, as they do not have that much of a budget to work with.\n\nProfessional sports leagues are usually the highest level of play in sport, specifically if they consist of the best players around the world in a certain sport. Because of this, they usually work with national or international federations, but there is usually a separation between the different federations. Most North American professional leagues usually do not have amateur divisions, as the amateur divisions are mostly run in separate leagues. In addition, most professional leagues are related to other leagues, as players usually attempt to play in the league with the highest level of play. Because of this, promotion and relegation can occur; or, in league systems without promotion and relegation, clubs in professional leagues can have a team in the minor leagues. This enables them to shuffle players who are not doing well to the minor leagues, which will inspire them to contribute more to the team by playing better.\n\n"}
{"id": "13730613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13730613", "title": "Symbolic behavior", "text": "Symbolic behavior\n\nSymbolic behavior is “a person’s capacity to respond to or use a system of significant symbols” (Faules & Alexander, 1978, p. 5). The symbolic behavior perspective argues that the reality of an organization is socially constructed through communication (Cheney & Christensen, 2000; Putnam, Phillips, & Chapman, 1996). Symbolic messages are used by individuals to understand their environment and create a social reality (Faules & Alexander, 1978; Mills, 2002). When faced with uncertainty, individuals continually organize themselves within their group based reality and respond within that reality (Weick, 1995).\n\nSymbolic interactionism (SI), a phrase coined by Herbert Blumer as early as 1937, was derived from lectures of early philosophy and sociologist theorist George Herbert Mead’s student notes. Mead’s notes from a course he taught in social psychology were posthumously transcribed into the book Mind, Self, and Society; 1934. Mead, born in 1863, arguably laid the foundation for the symbolic interactionism concept of how the individual mind arises out of the social process. Mead’s description of language as communication through significant symbols and concepts of “me” and “I” are examples of his contributions to symbolic behavior perspective. Symbolic behavior perspective stems from symbolic interactionism perspective. Blumer (1962) summarizes the perspective as how people act towards things based on the meaning those things have for them. These meanings are derived from social interaction and modified through interpretation. The symbolic interactionism perspective relates to the organization by describing how employees form a concept of self in relationship to their organization as they interact with individuals, subordinates, and superiors within the organizational architecture. Individuals learn appropriate behavior within an organization as the code of values, roles, attitudes, and norms of behavior of that work environment become apparent (Wood, 1999).\n\nSymbolic behavior perspective proposes that individuals are faced with uncertainty when introduced to an organization. This uncertainty creates a reliance on symbolic messages so individuals can make sense of their environment (Brown, 1986). In order to reduce uncertainty, organizations create sets of standardized meanings depicted by symbols. As symbolic messages are interpreted by individuals, they react collectively within the organizational culture. As organizational cultures are learned, shared, and transmitted a collective social reality emerges (Harris & Nelson, 2008, p. 225). Organizational cultures are created and maintained by symbolic behavior, giving managers an opportunity to create, articulate, and sustain the organization’s values as individuals focus on [shared values] (Colvin, 2000, p. F-9). The symbolic nature of shared values can also reduce ambiguity and tension within an organization (Harris & Nelson, 2008, p. 233).\nAccording to Mead's theory, a social act involves a three-part relationship: an initial gesture from one person, a response to that gesture by another, and a result. The result is what the act means for the communicator (Littlejohn & Foss, p. 160).\n\nThe above discussion can be summarized into 7 major propositions posited by Symbolic Behavior Perspective. The issues of complexity, uncertainty and organizing, cultural creation and maintenance, interpersonal reality, group behavior, leadership, and managing incongruences are addressed in the following propositions (Harris & Nelson, 2008, p. 222):\n\nProposition 1: Organizational complexity creates a reliance on symbolic messages.\n\nProposition 2: Uncertainty promotes a continual process of organizing.\n\nProposition 3: Symbolic behavior creates and maintains organizational cultures.\n\nProposition 4: Symbols constitute the basis for interpersonal reality.\n\nProposition 5: Groups reaffirm the importance of symbolic behavior.\n\nProposition 6: Leadership requires effective symbolic behavior.\n\nProposition 7: Incongruences and paradoxes are managed through acculturation.\n\nAccording to Harris & Nelson (2008, p. 237), tools consist of anything that provides symbolic meaning to people. Tools can be in the form of verbal or non-verbal communication.\n\nStories/myths: As stories are continually repeated, they provide analogies for individuals and serve to guide behavior within the organization.\n\nTitles: The use of titles communicates the relationship of the employee in correlation to the organization.\n\nSlogans: Slogans can be used to reinforce established priorities or to bring attention to new priorities (Waterman, 1987).\n\nDress: Clothing is very important to an organization because it communicates culture (Remland, 2003). Because clothing can influence perceptions of both behavior and intent (Galin, 1990, p. 51), the dress code of an organization can impact their overall image.\n\nPriorities: The priorities within an organization and the way they are carried out on daily basis carry enormous impact. Individuals can better identify with the organization when management’s priorities are in line with those of employees (Harris & Nelson, 2008, p. 238).\n\nAn over-reliance on symbolic activities can lead to significant problems. These include unethical manipulation, empty or meaningless actions, omnipresence, divisions, and unexpected interpretations (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 239). Likewise, Blumer notes in advanced societies large group actions consist of highly recurrent, stable patterns that establish common, established meanings for the participants. Blumer heads a warning to bear in mind that new situations present problems requiring adjustment and redefinition (Littlejohn & Foss, p. 160).\n\nThe use of gimmickry, using superficial pleasantness to cover up dishonest activities or intentions, providing misleading or incorrect advice regarding safety, or providing untrue explanations for behaviors are means used by unethical organizations, managers, or coworkers in order to obtain some advantage (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 240).\n\nWithout meaning individuals can get caught up in an activity trap, where styles gets substituted for substance (Robbins 1980). Diversity efforts are criticized for focusing more on comparative statistics generated by sporadic efforts and less on the nature of the issues a clearly thought-out strategic solution (Harris, 1997).\n\nSymbolic messages can prevent effective change or realistic responses to environmental demands. Cultures create identification and unity (Tompkins & Cheney, 1983), these trained incapacities can occur when values are strong or the culture’s influence is too pervasive. Specifically, obsolescence, resistance to change, and inconsistency are the three risks posed by strong values (Deal & Kennedy, 1982). Strong cultures dictate roles and performances meaning individuals can be co-opted by the culture and its messages (Conrad, 1985). Mead called a gesture with shared meaning a \"significant symbol\", suggesting that once there is shared meaning the gesture takes on the value of a significant symbol (Littlejohn & Foss, p. 161).\n\nSymbols can create great divisions in an organization. Culture provides both division and unity, and the symbols used to reinforce the organization can create powerful social alienation between individuals and groups. Subcultures develop between managers and workers, blue and white collars, or factory and sales creating the potential for a “them versus us” environment (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 243).\n\nCan be unpredictable because individuals respond to symbolic behavior through their own frame of reference, attempts to use symbolism can have unintended results (Harris and Nelson 2008, p. 244). A judicious use of symbols is necessary or the wrong action based on the right intent can occur. A powerful sense of organizational pride can lead to dysfunctional responses by employees and managers (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 244).\n\nA dramatistic perspective views individuals as actors “who creatively play, improvise, interpret, and re-present roles and scripts” (Conquergood, 1991, p. 187). Because the set of intangible activities that support the actual service itself provide a satisfying experience or a performance worth an increased financial burden (Pine & Gilmore, 1999).\n\nLearning to act out appropriate roles is a fundamental aspect of human development and important to organizational success (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 244). One's own ability to use significant symbols to respond to one's self makes the thinking process possible.\n\nPutting on an appropriate front (e.g. choice of clothes, language, facial expressions, excellent customer service) provides messages to support the role (Harris & Nelson 2008, p 245). Some individuals seem more adept at saying and doing the right thing at the right time, thereby avoiding malapropisms with some regularity. Individuals and group role abilities often determine the acceptability of the act (Pacanowsky & O’Donnell-Trujillo, 1983).\n\nUsing verbal and nonverbal symbols to fulfill the requirements of the role leads to dramatic realization (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 246). Image presentation and impression management are popular concepts for these efforts (Lord & Maher, 1991). Although there may be legitimate concerns regarding unethical impression management, it is a useful tool “to secure leadership positions and to achieve goals” (Hackman & Johnson, 2000, p. 24).\n\nA certain amount of mystification is required to put distance between the actor and the audience (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 247).\n\nRituals are acted out by performances and encompass all repeated activities (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 248). Rituals provide for organizational reality.\n\nThe rituals of arrival include those processes that explain what we must learn in order to be a bonafide member of the organization (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 248). Socialization is the process of indoctrinating Indoctrination new employees to a company’s policies. New members find that “taken-for-granted ways no longer fit; the familiar customs and practices of the previous job or role are inappropriate” (Gabriel et al., 2000, p. 16). Many organizations have adopted a clear acculturation process to guarantee successful socialization (Harris, 1990).\n\nOnce an individual is a part of an organization, there are rituals of belonging and exclusion (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 248). Belonging rituals are indications that one is being accepted within the organization and or work group (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 248).\n\nOrganization rites are planned activities that have both practical and expressive consequences (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 250). When this definition is applied to corporate life, such diverse activities as personnel testing, organizational development programs, and collective bargaining can be seen as rites that have not only practical consequences but also express important cultural meanings (Trice & Beyer, 1985, pp. 372–373).\n\nAs mentioned above, symbolic behavior perspective has strong roots in symbolic interactionism perspective. SI described as a movement is devoted to exploring ways people come together, or come to share meaning. Philosopher Susan Langer created the Symbol Theory which posits symbolism to be the central concern of philosophy because it underlies all human knowing and understanding (Littlejohn & Foss, p. 105). Langer believes that while all animal life is dominated by feeling, human feeling is mediated by conceptions, symbols and language. Animals respond to signs, but humans' stimulus from a sign is significantly more complex. The perspective is also associated with symbolic communication where animal societies are studied to help understand how symbolic communication affects the conduct of members of cooperating group. Symbolic behavior is also linked to the work of American anthropologist Leslie Alvin White (1940) who stated that “all human behavior originates in the use of symbols.” He believed human behavior and symbolic behavior to be synonymous with one another. Symbolic behavior perspective is also closely related to organizational communication and interpersonal relationships which involve interaction between two or more people and how they work together to achieve goals.\n\nBlumer, Herbert (1962). \"Society as Symbolic Interaction\", in Arnold M. Rose: Human Behavior and Social Process: An Interactionist Approach. Houghton-Mifflin. Reprinted in Blumer (1969).\n\nBlumer, Herbert (1969). Symbolic Interactionism: Perspective and Method. Berkeley: University of California Press.\n\nBrown, M.H. (1986). Sense-making and narrative forms: Reality construction in organizations. In L. Theayer (Ed.), Organization-communication: Emberging perspectives I (pp. 68–78). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.\n\nCheney, G., & Christensen, L. T. (2000). Identity as issue: Linkages between “internal” and “external” organizational communication. In F.M. Jablin & L.L. Putnam (Eds.), New handbook of organizational communication (pp. 231–269). Thousands Oaks, CA: Sage.\n\nColvin, G. (2000, March 6). Managing in the info era. Fortune, pp. F6-9.\n\nConrad, C. (1985). Stragic organizational communication: Cultures, situations, and adaptation. New York:Holt, Rinehart, & Winston.\n\nCouquergood, D. (1991). Rethingking ethnography: Toward a critical cultural politics. Communication Monographs, 58, 179-187.\n\nDeal, T. E., & Kennedy, A. A. (1982). Corporate cultures: The rites and rituals of corporate life. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.\n\nFaules, D.F., & Alexander, D.C. (1978). Communication and social behavior: A symbolic interaction perspective. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.\n\nGabriel, Y., Fineman, S., & Sims, D. (2000). Organizing and organizations (2nd ed.). London: Sage.\n\nGalin, A. (1990). Does the way you dress affect your performance rating? Personnel, 67, 49-53.\n\nHackman, M. Z., & Johnson, C. E.(2000). Leadership: A communication perspective (3rd ed.). Prospect Heights, IL: Waveland.\n\nHarris. T. E. (1997).Diversity:Importance, ironcies, and pathways. In C.D. Brown, C. Snedeker, &B. Sykes (Eds). Conflict and diversity (pp. 17–34). Cresskill, NJ: Hampton.\n\nHarris. T. E. (1990). Organizational cultures: An examination of the role of communication. In S. Thomas & W.A. Evans (Eds.), Communication and culture: Language, performance, technology, and media (Vol. 4 pp. 143–155). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.\n\nHarris, T. E. and M. D. Nelson (2008). Applied organizational communication (3rd edition). Lawrence Erlbaum Associates: New York: NY.\n\nHistorical Development of Symbolic Interactionism. A Timeline of S.I. http://socsci.colorado.edu/SOC/SI/si-timeline.htm\n\nLittlejohn, Stephen W. and Foss, Karen A. Theories of Human Communication, 9th Edition. (The Thomson Wadsworth Corporation, 2008. Belmont, CA)\n\nLord, R .G., & Maher, K. J. (1991). Leadership and information processing: Linking perceptions and performance. Boston: Unwin Hyman.\n\nMills, C. (2002). The hidden dimension of blue-collar sense-making about workplace communication. The Journal of Business Communication, 39(1), 288-313.\n\nPacanowsky, M., & O’Donnell-Trujillo, N. (1983). Organizational communication as cultural performance. Communication Monographs, 50, 126-147.\n\nPine, B. J., II, & Gilmore, J. H. (1999). The experience economy: Work is theatre every business a stage. Boston: Harvard Business School Press.\n\nPutnam, L., Phillips, N., & Chapman, P. (1996). Metaphors for communication and organization. In S. Clegg, C. Hardy, & W. Nord (Eds.), Handbook of organizational studies (pp. 375–408). London: Sage.\n\nTompkins, P. K., & Cheney, G. (1983). Account analysis of organizations: Decision making and identification. In L.L. Putnam & M.E. Pacanowsky (Eds.), Communication in organizations: An interpretive approach (pp. 123–146). Beverly Hills, CA: Sage.\n\nTrice, H. M., & Beyer, J. M. (1985). Six organizational rites to change culture. In R.H. Killman, M.J. Saxton, R. Serpa, & Associates (Eds.), Gaining control of the corporate culture (pp. 368–379). San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.\n\nWaterman, R. H., Jr. (1987). The renewal factor. New York: Bantam.\n\nWeick, K. (1995). Sensemaking in organizations. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.\n\nWood, J. T. (1999). Relational communication: Continuity and change in personal relationships (2nd ed.). U.S.: Thomson Wadsworth.\n"}
{"id": "21275396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21275396", "title": "Taos Institute", "text": "Taos Institute\n\nThe Taos Institute is an American non-profit association of scholars and practitioners dedicated to exploring social constructionist ideas.\n\nThe Taos Institute provides a newsletter, workshops, and consulting services. Communities of mental health, social work, counseling, organizational change, education, community building, gerontology and medicine contribute to these offerings. The institute also serves as the home for the electronically distributed, \"Positive Aging Newsletter\"and operates its own publishing company: Taos Institute Publications.\n\nThere are presently approximately 500 associates representing over 20 nations.\n\nThe Taos Institute was founded in 1991 by a group of scholars and practitioners interested in social constructionist ideas. The founders included Harlene Anderson, David Cooperrider, Kenneth Gergen, Mary Gergen, Sheila McNamee, Suresh Srivastva, and Diana Whitney. Primary attention was focused at that time on organizational development and family therapy, with practices of appreciative inquiry and co-constructive practices of therapy prevailing. Most of the founders remain on the executive board, but have since been joined by Dawn Dole, Robert Cottor, Sally St. George, Jane Magruder Watkins, and Dan Wulff. The institute currently functions as a virtual centered organization.\n\nThe name of the Institute was derived, in part, from the fact that one of its founders, Diana Whitney, lived in Taos, New Mexico, and provided a geographic center for possible meetings. In 1993, the Institute held its first international conference in Taos.\n\nThe Taos Institute offers a Masters program and a PhD program in Relational Leading. It also offers a distance learning program (in conjunction with the Houston Galveston Institute).\n\n"}
{"id": "6242948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6242948", "title": "Vankalai massacre", "text": "Vankalai massacre\n\nThe Vankalai massacre was a massacre of a family of four minority Sri Lankan Tamils at the hands of the Sri Lankan military personnel from the village of Vankalai in Mannar District, Sri Lanka on June 8, 2006. The victims were tortured and the mother was gang raped before her murder. \n\nThe village of Vankalai is located about six miles southeast of the town of Mannar, in Mannar District. The village was the scene of numerous incidents during the Sri Lankan Civil War, including the killing of Catholic priest Mary Bastian in 1985. As a result of the violence and insecurity, many residents were internally displaced or became overseas refugees.\n\nSome former residents returned to the area following the 2002 ceasefire between the LTTE and the government. Among them was the Martin family – carpenter Moorthy Martin, 27-year-old Mary Madeleine (known as Chitra), formerly a teacher with the Jesuit Refugee Service in Tamil Nadu, and their nine-year-old daughter Lakshika and seven-year-old son Dilakshan – who returned to Vankalai from southern India.\n\nThe Martin family lived in the Thomaspuri ward of Vankalai, named after Cardinal Thomas Cooray.\nAccording to local residents, security forces visited several houses in the area on the morning of June 8, 2006,\nincluding three soldiers who visited the Martins' home.\n\nAt night, when residents of Thomaspuri and neighbouring Bastipuri – named after Mary Bastian – gathered at Our Lady of St. Anne's Church for safe refuge, as had become customary following shelling of the area by security forces at the start of June,\nthe four members of the Martin family were absent. When relatives and neighbours checked on the house the following morning, they found the family dead.\n\nThe bodies of the victims had been mutilated and bore signs of torture, carrying wounds inflicted by carpenter's tools and \"heavier and sharper weapons like knives or bayonets\". All four had been hacked and stabbed, those of Moorthy Martin and the two children had been hanged with ropes, and that of Mary Martin showed signs of having been sexually assaulted.\n\nIn the wake of the massacre, the pro-rebel news site TamilNet reported that residents of Thomaspuri, and nearby Bastipuri and Sukanthapuri, had begun to flee. Victor Avithappar, the Parish Priest of Vankalai, stated:\n\nThe Requiem Mass for the family, held on June 10 at St. Anne's Church in Vankalai, gathered around five thousand people and was headed by Joseph Rayappu, the Bishop of Mannar.\n\nAlthough there are no known witnesses to the killings, many local residents allege that they were carried out by members of the security forces. According to the LTTE, local villagers \"speculated that the murder of the family could have been sexually motivated\".\nTamilNet, which published graphic photographs of the four victims that were reprinted by sectors of the Sri Lankan media, explicitly attributed the massacre to soldiers of the Sri Lankan Army.\n\nSri Lankan government officials denied allegations that the military was involved in the massacre and blamed the LTTE, suggesting that the family was targeted due to its connections with security forces\nand in a bid to generate \"international sympathy\" for the group \"by tarnishing the image of the security forces\".\nThe government also alleged that Moorthy Martin had previously received several threats from the LTTE. An LTTE spokesperson denied the accusations.\n\nAn inquest into the massacre was initiated by local judicial authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "30838449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30838449", "title": "Venedikt Miakotin", "text": "Venedikt Miakotin\n\nVenedikt Aleksandrovich Miakotin (1867–1937) was a Russian historian and \"narodnik\" politician.\n\nV. A. Miakotin was born in Gatchina, Saint Petersburg Governorate. Miakotin was educated at the Kronstadt gymnasium and the University of Saint Petersburg, where he studied history and philology. He subsequently became a professor of history at Saint Petersburg University. He also lectured at the Aleksandrovsky Lyceum and the Alexander Military Law Academy. During his student days, he was greatly influenced by \"narodnik\" writers like N.K. Mikhailovsky, and by French romantic historians. These influences he combined with detailed statistical information gathered by the zemstvo movement. In the 1890s Miakotin was associated with the 'Legal Populist' movement and contributed to the liberal journal \"Russkoe Bogatstvo\" (\"Russian Wealth\"), becoming a member of its editorial board in 1904. He collaborated closely with A.V. Peshekhonov and N.F. Annensky. Together with them and with former Marxists like P.B. Struve and S.N. Prokopovich, and liberal nationalists like P.N. Miliukov, Miakotin founded the 'Union of Liberation' in 1904, from which the Constitutional-Democratic Party emerged.\n\nHowever, Miakotin, like other 'Legal Populists', also maintained contact with illegal circles and with the Socialist-Revolutionaries. He was involved in the liberal 'banquet campaign' of 1904 (modelled on the French oppositional banquets organised on the eve of the 1848 revolution) and was arrested several times. In 1905 he tried to mediate between striking workers and the authorities, but was unable to prevent the 'Bloody Sunday' massacre, which triggered the Revolution of 1905. During the Revolution, Miakotin helped organise the radical 'Union of Writers' and participated in the 'Union of Unions'. He also briefly joined the Socialist-Revolutionary Party but rejected its adoption of terrorism and the influence of Marxism on its leading theoreticians (V.M. Chernov, N.S. Rusanov et al.) In 1906, Miakotin belonged to the \"narodnik\" group which broke with the PSR and founded the Popular Socialist Party (NSP). He was elected to the First Duma in 1906 and collaborated closely with the Trudovik (Labour) group around A.F. Kerensky. He also helped edit the NSP's journal \"Narodnoe Slovo\" (The People’s Word).\n\nIn 1914, Miakotin adopted a 'Defencist' position with regard to the First World War, although he had previously been sharply critical of official tsarist Great Russian nationalism and rejected imperialist war aims. He supported the February Revolution of 1917, became a member of the central committee of the NSP and helped merge it with the \"Trudoviki\". He supported a liberal-socialist coalition of \"all democratic forces\" and a continuation of the war effort, long after this had ceased to be a popular position even among moderate socialists. Miakotin opposed the October Revolution and was one of the leaders of the anti-Bolshevik 'Union for the Revival of Russia'. In 1918 he went to southern Russia, was arrested and imprisoned. In 1922 he was expelled in perpetuity from Soviet Russia. Miakotin became a professor of history at the University of Sofia in 1928. He eventually settled in Prague and died there in 1937.\n\nMiakotin wrote many works on Russian and Ukrainian history, including \"Istoriia na Rossiia\" (1936), \"Na zarie russkoǐ obshchestvennosti\" (1905) and \"Iz istorii russkago obshchestva\" (1902).\n\nAlso \"passim\":\n"}
{"id": "1029272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029272", "title": "Volcano warning schemes of the United States", "text": "Volcano warning schemes of the United States\n\nIn October 2006, the United States Geological Survey (USGS) adopted a nationwide alert system for characterizing the level of unrest and eruptive activity at volcanoes. The system is now used by the Alaska Volcano Observatory, the California Volcano Observatory (California and Nevada), the Cascades Volcano Observatory (Washington, Oregon and Idaho), the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory and the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, New Mexico and Arizona).\n\nUnder this system, the USGS ranks the level of activity at a U.S. volcano using the terms \"normal\", for typical volcanic activity in a non-eruptive phase; \"advisory\", for elevated unrest; \"watch\", for escalating unrest or an eruption underway that poses limited hazards; and, \"warning\", if a highly hazardous eruption is underway or imminent. These levels reflect conditions at a volcano and the expected or ongoing hazardous volcanic phenomena. When an alert level is assigned by an observatory, accompanying text will give a fuller explanation of the observed phenomena and clarify hazard implications to affected groups.\n\nPrior to October 2006, three parallel Volcano warning schemes were used by the United States Geological Survey and the volcano observatories for different volcano ranges in the United States. They each have a base level for dormant-quiescent states and three grades of alert.\n\nDeveloped in 1997 to replace a previous 5-level system devised in 1991.\n\nThe Alaska Volcano Observatory (AVO) used the following color-coded system to rate volcanic activity. It was originally established during the 1989-90 eruption of Redoubt Volcano.\n\nAll five classifications are spelled as proper nouns, i.e., Level of Concern Color Code Orange not Level of concern color code Orange or any other variation. On its website the AVO spells the alert color in all capitals, but this is not otherwise necessary outside their system.\n\nIntroduced following the May 18, 1980, eruption of Mount St. Helens.\n\n"}
{"id": "6562778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6562778", "title": "WAAKE-UP!", "text": "WAAKE-UP!\n\nWAAKE-UP! (World Awareness and Action Koalition of Equal United Progressives) was a student and community coalition at the University of Colorado Boulder (CU-Boulder) active from 1998 to 2001. WAAKE-UP! adopted the motto \"Action without Awareness is ignorant. Awareness without Action is immoral.\" WAAKE-UP! supported many progressive causes, but were best known for the \"Sweatshop Campaign,\" demanding that University of Colorado apparel be made in factories supporting fair labor conditions, specifically those endorsed by the Worker Rights Consortium. The Sweatshop Campaign was not successful, but its goals were later fulfilled by WAAKE-UP!'s successor organizations, 180 at 11 (180 degrees at the 11th hour), CASA (Coalition Against Sweatshop Apparel) and WWJC (World Workers Justice Committee). Like many other progressive organizations in Colorado their actions were recorded in the Denver Police Spy Files.\n\nJuly, 1996 the University of Colorado board of regents adopted the Talloires Declaration stating that the University must maintain \"institutional neutrality in social and political matters\" unless it is an issue that \"directly affects the university, is detrimental to the achievement of the university's mission and purposes, and/or threatens academic freedom.\"\n\nApril 1, 1999 CU-Boulder's student union legislative council unanimously passed Council Resolution 106 suggesting CU regents, Chancellor Richard Byyny, and President John Buechner adopt a Basic Commitment to Human Rights, requiring them to take a stand against environmentally irresponsible investments and apparel contracts. The following Monday, April 5, WAAKE-UP! held a press conference asking the University to abandon its institutional neutrality policy for a \"institutional integrity policy.\" WAAKE-UP! members asked the University of Colorado to stop investing in corporations committing human rights violations even if the investments were more lucrative than socially responsible alternatives. Specifically, WAAKE-UP! members were displeased with the University's investments in corporations like Chevron, Royal Dutch Shell, Louisiana-Pacific, Nike, Lehman Brothers (the parent company of Peabody Coal), Texaco and Unocal.\n\nWAAKE-UP! faxed and emailed documentation violations of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights committed by corporations invested in by the University of Colorado to the regents, Byyny and Buechner, demanding they support Council Resolution 106 by April 12. None of the University officials responded.\n\nApril 26, 1999, WAAKE-UP! held a rally at the Dalton Trumbo Fountain outside the University Memorial Center on the CU-Boulder campus encouraging the University of Colorado, to dissolve the University's neutrality policy on investments and sign a basic commitment to human rights. Byyny refused to meet with the protesters. In response, WAAKE-UP! organized a protest on April 28, 1999, blocking traffic at the intersection of Broadway and Regent Drive (located on the edge of the Boulder campus) until Byyny agreed to speak with them. He scheduled an appointment to speak with WAAKE-UP! members on April 30, 1999, at 8 a.m. WAAKE-UP! continued to organize and grow over the next year.\n\nMarch 2, 2000, and again on March 15, 2000, WAAKE-UP! presented Chancellor Richard Byyny with a series of demands to ensure ethical apparel licensing was practiced by the University of Colorado. Byyny responded that he would consider adopting them but needed time, more community input, and expressed some specific concerns. Byyny questioned whether one of WAAKE-UP!'s demands, equal pay for women making University of Colorado apparel, was a human right or a cultural norm. According to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights it is not a cultural norm, Article 23, Section 2 states: \"Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work.\"\n\nMarch 19, 2000, WAAKE-UP! members protested outside of the Abercrombie & Fitch store on the Pearl Street Mall in Boulder, Colorado, a few blocks away from the CU-Boulder campus. WAAKE-UP! claimed Abercrombie & Fitch laborers were exploited and worked in sweatshop conditions.\n\nMarch 21, 2000, CU-Boulder professor Ira Chernus announced that he had written a resolution in support of WAAKE-UP!'s demands and that it would be voted on during the next Boulder Faculty Assembly. It included creating a Code of Conduct for Ethical Apparel Licensing as well as an Investment Board of Ethics which would be monitored by an Internal Advisory Board for compliance with the Code of Conduct. This was in addition to resolutions passed by the Assembly on March 13, 2000, calling for WAAKE-UP!, Byyny, and Vice Chancellor Ronald Stump to continue a good-faith discussion on University of Colorado apparel licensing. The resolutions were forwarded to the Chancellor's office on March 14, 2000.\n\nApril 4, 2000, WAAKE-UP! held a mock trial outside the University Memorial Center by the Dalton Trumbo Fountain with the \"Sweatshop King\", a street theater puppet. University of Colorado police officers, Detective Tim DeLaria and Lt. Michelle Irving monitored the demonstration and took photographs of those participating. Both officers belonged to the Investigations and Community Service Unit of the University of Colorado Police Department.\n\nApril 5, 2000, WAAKE-UP! demanded that the University of Colorado join the Worker Rights Consortium by the end of the day on April 6, 2000. Meeting this deadline would have allowed representatives from the University to attend a Worker Rights Consortium meeting taking place in New York City on April 7, 2000.\n\nApril 6, 2000, the Boulder Faculty Assembly voted in favor of a resolution supporting WAAKE-UP!'s demands, though it didn't specifically include the requirement that the University of Colorado should join the Worker Rights Consortium. The resolution was passed on a voice vote with 30 faculty members in attendance, the vast majority voting in favor of it. The Assembly claimed that the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights served as a basis for the proposed Code of Conduct. Byyny created an ad hoc group of ten CU-Boulder faculty, staff, and students to investigate WAAKE-UP!'s proposal. Byyny's ad hoc group's first meeting was behind closed doors, against Colorado's Open Meeting Law WAAKE-UP! was invited to attend the first meeting, but boycotted it in protest. A WAAKE-UP! member was present at all subsequent meetings.\n\nThe Boulder Faculty Assembly had organized three community forums in an effort to get the community input Byyny requested. Byyny never attended any of the forums organized by the Assembly. University of Colorado Vice Chancellor Paul Tabolt, however, attended one of the forums and raised a few questions, but left without giving forum attendees a chance to respond to them. Tabolt stated collective bargaining is not a right (an opinion not supported by the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights) and that he believed it was fair to pay workers less than what they need to live.\n\nApril 7, 2000, the University of Colorado Student Union unanimously supported WAAKE-UP!'s demand that the University join the Worker Rights Consortium, passing on a vote of 13–0. However, this failed to produce any action from the Office of the Chancellor.\n\nIn the meantime WAAKE-UP! was busy circulating a petition among students demanding that the University of Colorado join the Worker Rights Consortium (gathering over 2000 signatures) and on April 10, 2000, and built a shantytown in the Norlin Quadrangle on the CU-Boulder campus to draw attention to their campaign and gain visibility during the Conference on World Affairs. In reference to the conference, WAAKE-UP! members named the shantytown the \"Conference on World Despairs.\" WAAKE-UP! initially created the shantytown without the University's permission, but later obtained \"temporary structure\" permits after it was established. The construction of the shantytown started just hours before the Conference on World Affairs' opening procession through the Norlin Quadrangle. WAAKE-UP! said the shantytown was meant to symbolize the poor living conditions of sweatshop workers. WAAKE-UP!'s shanytown was reminiscent of a previous one constructed in 1988 outside the Dalton Trumbo Fountain to protest the University of Colorado's investment in the South African apartheid regime.\n\nWAAKE-UP! members stayed at the shantytown in shifts during the day and night. During the day they held teach-ins, distributed fliers, and explained the purpose of the shantytown to passersby. Among other topics, WAAKE-UP! members discussed Gary Barnett's threats to suspend players covering up Nike logos on their uniforms. Community members and local businesses supported them by supplying food and water. At 3 a.m. on April 13, 2000, approximately ten people came by the shantytown and set off fireworks, threw water balloons and distributed flyers that read \"kegs not contraversy (sic).\" WAAKE-UP! members sleeping at the shantytown said they appreciated the nonviolent protest methods used by the \"anti-protest protesters.\"\nApril 15, 2000 WAAKE-UP! members staying at the shantytown abandoned it due to heavy snow, but later returned.\nApril 17, 2000 more than 150 people attended a rally at WAAKE-UP!'s shantytown focusing on high school education and in solidarity with protests the previous day in Washington D.C. against the International Monetary Fund and World Bank.\nApril 13, 2000, WAAKE-UP! began meeting with the ad hoc committee formed by Chancellor Byyny. Though both sides claimed progress was being made, the University administration favored joining the Fair Labor Association over the Worker Rights Consortium. WAAKE-UP! were critical of the Fair Labor Association as much of its funding came from organizations it monitored creating a potential conflict of interest.\n\nApril 17, 2000, the ad hoc group put together by Byyny recommended a one-year conditional membership in the Worker Rights Consortium, though it still needed to be approved by a larger ad hoc committee, appointed by the Chancellor, and the Chancellor himself. The committee also recommended they monitor the Fair Labor Association during that year to decide if it would be worth joining. Additionally, the committee raised some questions as to how the Code of Conduct would apply to contracts Nike had with the CU-Boulder athletics department, which operated somewhat autonomously.\n\nBy April 19, 2000 the larger ad hoc committee said it was putting the finishing touches on the Code of Conduct and were getting ready to send it to Byyny to review. WAAKE-UP! pressured Byyny to sign it as soon as he possibly could.\n\nApril 25, 2000, Chancellor Byyny announced that he would not sign the anti-sweatshop policy approved by the ad hoc committees. Instead, Byyny made some changes to the existing policy using the committee's recommendations as guidelines.\n\nApril 26, 2000, Ralph Nader visited the CU-Boulder campus. Nader endorsed WAAKE-UP!'s demands and condemned Byyny's decision not to join the Worker Rights Consortium. Nader speculated that the University's decision might be influenced by an announcement Phil Knight had recently made, stating that he would retract a thirty million dollar donation to the University of Oregon after they joined the Worker Rights Consortium.\n\nWAAKE-UP! met with Byyny the same day. Byyny gave few specifics about his decision not to follow the committee's recommendations. A WAAKE-UP! member had brought a water gun to the meeting, and showed it to the police officers present. Later in the meeting officer Tim DeLaria attempted to grab the water gun out of the activist's hand, causing it to squirt two other officers. DeLaria attempted to arrest the activist for this, though Police Lt. John Kish reversed DeLaria's decision and let the water-gun carrying activist off with a warning. Professor Ira Chernus had protested the unnecessary show of force during this and previous meetings.\n\nMay 3, 2000, Byyny signed a revised version of the university apparel licensing policy recommended by the executive committee. The revisions were made in a closed door meeting, and public input was not sought on the changes. The revised version required licensees to comply with labor laws and regulations of their governments, and prohibited discrimination, harassment, child labor, forced labor and prison labor. WAAKE-UP! members were disappointed with vague language used in revision and weakened stance on women's rights and maximum hours allowed in a workweek.\n\nMay 4, 2000, in response to Byyny's rejection of the committee's licensing recommendations, WAAKE-UP! and Boulder Biotic Baking Brigade member, Sara Toombs (a.k.a. Agent Moon Pie), pied Chancellor Byyny while he was giving a speech on the CU-Boulder campus. Toombs was later tried for assault. Byyny claimed he incurred numerous dry cleaning bills and that his cheek was slightly bruised as a result of the pieing. Toombs testified at the trial that she baked the organic blueberry pie herself, and that she used her training in nonviolent resistance techniques as well as the benefit of practice with friends to \"squoosh\" the pie in Byyny's face without harming him. The jury found that she was not guilty of assault but did find her guilty of harassment and criminal mischief. Toombs was sentenced to six months of unsupervised probation, thirty hours of community service, and was ordered to write Byyny a letter of apology. The verdict was considered a victory by Toombs, her attorneys, and her supporters.\n\nBefore the trial WAAKE-UP! members staged a \"sui-pied\", a demonstration where they hit themselves in the face with pies to show how harmless it was, outside the Boulder County Justice Center.\n\nSeptember 18, 2000, the University of Colorado confirmed suspicions it had joined the Fair Labor Association on May 3, 2000. WAAKE-UP! members had only learned of the decision from a discussion with a FLA representative, and were upset that they were not consulted about or informed of the decision. Following the news, WAAKE-UP! members said they would continue the campaign making three demands on the University: (1) to adopt a strong licensing policy that will eliminate the possibility of doing business with companies that use sweatshop labor, (2) form an internal monitoring board within the University of Colorado that will evaluate whether companies comply with the licensing policy and to investigate and research possible violations, and (3) to join the Worker Rights Consortium (WRC) as an external monitoring agency that will investigate conditions in the factories in which apparel is made. Although it was not in the three demands, WAAKE-UP! also asked that the University relinquish its membership in the Fair Labor Association.\n\nNovember 15, 2001 former WAAKE-UP! organizer Scott Silber returned to CU-Boulder to give a talk titled \"American Jihad Inc.: Corporate Crusades for the Free Market Faith\" about corporate influence in the post-September 11 world.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2006 the student groups 180 degrees at the 11th hour, CASA (Coalition Against Sweatshop Apparel), and WWJC (World Workers Justice Committee) organized on the CU-Boulder campus, again trying to get the University to join the Worker Rights Consortium, this time petitioning Chancellor Phil Distefano.\n\nMay 5, 2005, the groups held a hunger strike inside Distefano's office, until it was announced that the University would begin the affiliation process. CASA members again went on hunger strike for fifteen days from April 12 to April 27, 2006 until the University accepted the Designated Supplier Program proposed by the United Students Against Sweatshops.\n\nWAAKE-UP! members had requested a table at career fairs held on the CU-Boulder campus to inform students about the behavior of corporations trying to recruit them, but had been denied by CU-Boulder administration. In response, on January 31, 2000, WAAKE-UP! held a demonstration during a career fair, accompanied by TV Nation's Crackers the Corporate Crime-Fighting Chicken, carrying a banner that read \"Students are NOT products, Teachers are NOT tools, The University is NOT a factory!\"\n\nMarch 14, 2000, WAAKE-UP! members staged a die-in in front of the World Trade Center buildings in Denver, Colorado to raise awareness about the U'wa's struggle against the Occidental Petroleum Corporation. There were approximate 20 police officers at the protest who dragged the limp protesters away from the scene, at one point dragging a protester's head into a street gutter. One of the protesters was taken in to custody without being read his Miranda Rights.\n\nOn April 15, 2000 WAAKE-UP! organized a march of more than 400 people in Boulder in solidarity with protests of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund in Washington D.C.. The protests were a continuation of those at the Ministerial Conference of 1999 in Seattle, Washington. On April 9, 2000, The \"Daily Camera\" published an article by Ira Chernus in support of the march supporting the protest. Speakers at the protest included Cecilia Zarate-Laun and David Pellow. The protest was non-violent and there was no hostile contact with the police during it.\n\nSome WAAKE-UP! members, however, went to the April 16 protest in Washington D.C., and came prepared to treat protesters who might be injured. They brought medical supplies and treated people who had been pepper sprayed.\n\nAugust 11, 2000, WAAKE-UP! members protested the opening of the Flatirons Crossing mall in Broomfield, Colorado. WAAKE-UP! believed the mall promoted consumerism and contributed to urban sprawl.\n\nSeptember 25, 2000, WAAKE-UP! members and other activists marched on Pearl Street Mall in Boulder, Colorado. The action was in solidarity with protests against the International Monetary Fund and World Bank in Prague. Protesters urged passersby at stores on the Pearl Street Mall such as GAP, Banana Republic, Abercrombie & Fitch, Starbucks, and Borders Bookstore (under construction at the time) to support local business, chanting \"Take your crap back to the Gap\" and \"Human need, not corporate greed.\" This was a smaller protest compared to one following it in Denver, Colorado on September 26, 2000.\n\nNovember 23, 2001, WAAKE-UP! members supported the Buy Nothing Day protests in Boulder, Colorado, organized by CU-Boulder professor Kayann Short, who focused it on how consumerism affects women.\n\nWAAKE-UP! supported the People's Summit on Globalization, a conference discussing how globalization affects people around the world. The conference focused specifically on institutions such as the World Bank, International Monetary Fund, and the World Trade Organization. The conference was held March 8–11, 2001, and featured speakers such as Paul Hawken, Chol Soon Rhie, Danny Kennedy, Kevin Danaher, Ignacio Ibarra, Njoki Njoroge Njehu, Raquel Sancho, Amy Goodman, Julie Davids, Carlos Zorrilla, Michael Morrill, Orrin Williams, Ward Churchill, Evelyn Hu-DeHart, Irungu Houghton, Jason Wallach, and William Begay.\n\nThe Rocky Mountain Rebels were a group of Radical Cheerleaders in WAAKE-UP!. They were present at nearly every WAAKE-UP! demonstration cheering on the protesters.\n\nAs an alternative to fraternity and sorority rushes, WAAKE-UP! members held a \"Radical Rush\" at the beginning of each semester in an attempt to get incoming students acquainted with all of the radical student organizations on campus. The Radical Rush tradition continued after WAAKE-UP! was defunct.\n\nNovember 30, 2000, WAAKE-UP! co-sponsored showings of the film \"This Is What Democracy Looks Like\" along with End Sanctions Now!, the Rocky Mountain Independent Media Center, AMP, Art & Revolution, Free Speech TV and KGNU.\n\nWAAKE-UP! endorsed Unity 2000, a group of concerned citizens and activists who protested at the Republican National Convention in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on July 30, 2000.\n\nThe Colorado ACLU was able to obtain files collected by the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force while working with local law enforcement in Denver, Colorado as a result of the Denver Police Spy File litigation. The files show that emails were intercepted from WAAKE-UP!'s email list, specifically about a protest planned for the Aspen Institutes's Summit on Globalization and the Human Condition in July 2000. Tim DeLaria of the CU-Boulder police department intercepted the email and forwarded it to George Kennedy in the Denver Police Department's Intelligence Unit. Kennedy wrote back to Tim DeLaria saying he would forward the email to Tom Fisher of the FBI Joint Terrorism Task Force to contact someone in Aspen, Colorado.\n\nIn addition to the exchange about the Aspen Institutes's Summit on Globalization, it also includes an exchange between Tim DeLaria and the Denver Police Department about a march organized by WAAKE-UP! in support of the U'wa. The WAAKE-UP! email list was one of 24 lists mentioned in a FOIA request by the Colorado ACLU in relation to the Denver Police Spy files case.\n\nLinda Gorman of the Independence Institute wrote two articles decrying WAAKE-UP!. Gorman claimed that policies advocated by WAAKE-UP! would put the working poor making University of Colorado apparel out of work. Gorman was also very critical of Sara Toombs' choice of fillings for the pie baked to pie Chancellor Byyny; stating that at the time of year when the pie was baked blueberries were out of season and may have been imported by a corporation exploiting its workers south of the United States border. Gorman suggested Toombs should have made a rhubarb pie, as rhubarb was in season at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "16697919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16697919", "title": "Water Resources Development Act", "text": "Water Resources Development Act\n\nWater Resources Development Act (WRDA), is a reference to public laws enacted by Congress to deal with various aspects of water resources: environmental, structural, navigational, flood protection, hydrology, etc.\n\nTypically, the United States Army Corps of Engineers administers the bulk of the Act's requirements.\n\nThere are several WRDAs:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50678406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50678406", "title": "Wittman v. Personhuballah", "text": "Wittman v. Personhuballah\n\nWittman v. Personhuballah, , was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that the appellants lacked standing under Article III of the United States Constitution to pursue their appeal. The case dealt with redistricting by the Virginia Legislature of Virginia's 3rd congressional district and allegations of gerrymandering based upon race. The appeal was brought by Congressmen David Brat, Randy Forbes, and Rob Wittman.\n"}
