{"id": "1599371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1599371", "title": "1984 Cameroonian coup attempt", "text": "1984 Cameroonian coup attempt\n\nAn attempted coup d'état occurred in Cameroon in 1984; presidential palace guards unsuccessfully tried to overthrow President Paul Biya, resulting in fighting that began on April 6, 1984, and ended several days later. The coup attempt is widely viewed as one of the most crucial events in the history of Cameroon since independence in 1960.\n\nAfter nearly 23 years as President of Cameroon, Ahmadou Ahidjo resigned for unclear reasons in November 1982 and was succeeded by Prime Minister Paul Biya. Despite his resignation, Ahidjo remained President of the Cameroon National Union (CNU), the ruling party, and retained enormous political influence. Although Ahidjo's resignation was voluntary and he was initially happy to see Biya take his place as President (although Biya was a Christian from the south and Ahidjo was a Muslim from the north), a power struggle between the two developed in 1983. Ahidjo attempted to assert his supremacy by arguing that the party should make policy decisions and that the state should merely implement them, but Biya in turn pointed out that the constitution assigned responsibility for determining policy to the President of the Republic. Ahidjo went into exile in July 1983, and on August 22, 1983, Biya publicly accused Ahidjo of plotting a coup, while simultaneously dismissing two key Ahidjo loyalists—Prime Minister Maigari Bello Bouba and Minister of State for the Armed Forces Maikano Abdoulaye—from the government. Ahidjo bitterly criticized Biya from exile, accusing him of paranoia and misrule, and he resigned as President of the CNU. In February 1984 he was sentenced to death \"in absentia\" for alleged involvement in the 1983 coup plot, although the sentence was subsequently commuted to life imprisonment by Biya.\n\nIn early April 1984, President Biya ordered a transfer of all presidential palace guards who came from the predominantly Muslim north, probably because he had been alerted to a coup plot involving those soldiers. Dissident members of the palace guard promptly reacted to the order by rebelling against Biya; the plot's leaders may have been forced to launch their coup attempt prematurely due to Biya's order to relocate the soldiers away from the capital, Yaoundé. An important factor was Cameroon Air Force, which remained loyal to the president. After several days of heavy fighting in Yaoundé, Biya loyalists defeated the rebels. Estimates of the death toll ranged from 71 (according to the government) to about 1,000. More than 1,000 accused dissidents were arrested shortly afterward, and 35 of them were immediately sentenced to death and executed. The government declared a state of emergency lasting six months in Yaoundé and the surrounding region.\n\nAlthough Ahidjo was not overtly involved in the coup attempt, it was widely believed that he had masterminded it from exile. The failure of the coup attempt was followed by Biya's full consolidation of power; in 1985 he relaunched the CNU as the Cameroon People's Democratic Movement (CPDM).\n"}
{"id": "36210617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36210617", "title": "2012 Indian Ocean migrant boat disaster", "text": "2012 Indian Ocean migrant boat disaster\n\nThe 2012 Indian Ocean migrant boat disaster occurred on 21 June 2012, when a boat carrying more than 200 refugees capsized in the Indian Ocean between the Indonesian island of Java and the Australian external territory of Christmas Island. As of 25 June 109 people have been rescued, 17 bodies have been recovered, and approximately 70 people remain missing. The boat's passengers were all male and were mostly from Afghanistan.\n\nThe boat was discovered by an Australian Customs and Border Protection Service surveillance plane south of Java at about 3:00 pm AWST. The boat had sent out a distress call on 19 June, but it failed to identify its location. On 20 June, the boat sent out a second distress call, at which point Australian authorities advised the boat to return to Indonesia. The boat was spotted later that day by a surveillance plane as it continued toward Australian waters. \"No visual signs of distress\" were observed by the plane's crew. Australian authorities then began to prepare to respond when the boat would enter their territory, but it capsized before leaving Indonesian waters.\n\nAbout 40 survivors were found clinging to the upturned boat, while others were found on floating debris up to four miles (6 km) from the disaster's location. Survivors and bodies of the deceased were transported to Christmas Island aboard the patrol boat . Rescue efforts were coordinated by Indonesian authorities with assistance from Australia. Eight Australian and Indonesian ships, plus five Australian aircraft, were still searching for additional survivors on 22 June. Australian Home Affairs Minister Jason Clare stated that the prospect of finding additional survivors was \"increasingly grim\", due to rough seas.\n\nHuman traffickers often disable their boats once they have entered Australian waters and send out distress calls to have their \"cargo\" picked up. Christmas Island is a popular target for asylum seekers, whose journeys sometimes end in tragedy. In a statement, the U.N. refugee agency said the tragedy \"reinforces the need for renewed international solidarity and cooperation to find protection options for people\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46658468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46658468", "title": "2015 America East Men's Lacrosse Tournament", "text": "2015 America East Men's Lacrosse Tournament\n\nThe 2015 America East Men's Lacrosse Tournament was the 16th edition of the America East Conference Men's Lacrosse Tournament and took place from April 30 to May 2 that year at John Fallon Field in Albany, New York, United States. The winner of the tournament received the America East Conference's automatic bid to the 2015 NCAA Division I Men's Lacrosse Championship. Four teams from the America East conference will compete in the single elimination tournament. The seeds were based upon the teams regular season conference record.\n\nOnly the top four teams in the America East conference advanced to the America East Conference Tournament. \nJohn Fallon Field - Albany, New York\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56884158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56884158", "title": "Alexander Nix", "text": "Alexander Nix\n\nAlexander James Ashburner Nix (born 1 May 1975) is the former CEO of Cambridge Analytica and a former director of the Strategic Communication Laboratories (SCL) Group, a behavioural research and strategic communications consultancy, leading its elections division (SCL Elections). Cambridge Analytica helped Leave.EU with its Brexit campaign, according to both Leave.EU and Cambridge Analytica staff. The company was also engaged by the Ted Cruz and Donald Trump campaigns during the 2016 US presidential election.\n\nBoth in the UK and the US campaigns, Cambridge Analytica used private information from over 87 million Facebook users harvested from their profiles without permission. \n\nOn 20 March 2018, Nix was suspended from Cambridge Analytica after undercover video footage showed him claiming his company was using honey traps, bribery stings, and prostitutes, among other tactics, to influence more than 200 elections globally for his clients.\n\nNix belongs to a noted banking and gentry family who owned a London private bank and a major estate in Crawley, and his family had strong ties to India during British colonial rule. He attended Eton before studying art history and working in finance. He is married to Norwegian shipping heiress Olympia Paus, one of the heirs to the shipping giant Wilh. Wilhelmsen and a member of a billionaire family.\n\nAmong Nix's former co-directors of SCL Group is Lord Ivar Mountbatten, a cousin of Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nAlexander James Ashburner Nix was born on 1 May 1975. His father Paul David Ashburner Nix (1944–2007) was an investment manager who spent twenty-seven years with the M&G Group before joining Consulta in 1995, and was a shareholder of SCL Group. \n\nThe Ashburner Nix family were wealthy bankers for several generations and had long-standing ties to India dating back to the East India Company's rule from the mid 18th century; family members were prominent merchants and administrators in British-ruled India. His family owned Tilgate House, a large manor and 2,185-acre estate in the Crawley area. It was purchased by the wealthy Indian-born businessman George Ashburner in 1862 and inherited by his daughter Sarah (born 1845 in Calcutta), who in 1865 married banker John Hennings Nix, one of the partners in the London private bank Fuller, Banbury, Nix & Co. His great-grandfather Charles George Ashburner Nix sold Tilgate House in 1939. Alexander Nix is also descended from liberal politician James Clifton Brown and from the banker and politician Sir William Brown.\n\nAlexander Nix grew up in Notting Hill, in West London, attended fee-paying Eton College, and studied art history at the University of Manchester. He later worked as a financial analyst with Baring Securities in Mexico for Robert Fraser & Partners LLP, a tax and corporate finance firm. In 2003, Nix left finance to join the SCL Group.\n\nNix is married to Olympia Paus (Caroline Victoria Olympia Paus), a Norwegian shipping heiress of aristocratic origin who was born in Athens in 1976 and raised in London. Norwegian newspaper \"Dagbladet\" noted that Olympia Paus belongs to one of Norway's most prominent families, and both her parents independently have large fortunes.\n\nOn her father's side she belongs to the aristocratic Paus family (), a family of steel industrialists and ship-owners that has been part of the Norwegian elite since medieval times, and her mother Cecilie Paus (née Wilhelmsen) belongs to the billionaire Wilhelmsen family and has been one of the main owners of Wilh. Wilhelmsen, one of the world's largest shipping companies, since 1978. Olympia Paus is a granddaughter of shipping magnate Tom Wilhelmsen. \n\nHer father's family had close ties to the royal family in Norway during the 20th century and her great-grandfather, Count Peder Anker Wedel-Jarlsberg, was Lord Chamberlain, the King's close confidant and the highest-ranking nobleman in Norway; his rank of \"feudal count\" would broadly correspond to Duke in the United Kingdom. Her 2nd great-grandfather, steel industrialist Ole Paus, was a first cousin of playwright Henrik Ibsen; Villa Paus in Oslo was built for him. She is also related to Count Christopher de Paus, a philanthropist and papal chamberlain, and her uncle is the businessman Peder Paus who is married to a former marchioness. \n\nOlympia Paus has never lived in Norway as her parents left the country in 1972 for Athens and London, where her father Christopher Paus worked in the shipping industry and as an investor; he has been reported to own shares worth close to 100 million British pounds in companies in the offshore petroleum industry. Olympia is the sister of designer and socialite Pontine Paus who also lives in London. In 2012 Nix and Olympia Paus purchased a home in Notting Hill for around 5 million pounds. They have three children.\n\nIn 2013, Nix set up Cambridge Analytica as an offshoot of the SCL Group, to target voters in \"more than 40 political campaigns in the US, Caribbean, South America, Europe, Africa and Asia\". In the United States, it was involved in the 2014 midterm elections and the 2016 presidential primaries and election, during which it received funding from the Mercer family. Nix's firm supported both the Ted Cruz and Donald Trump campaigns for the US presidency by using \"psychographic\" profiles of voters built on data harvested from Facebook.\n\nBefore the United Kingdom European Union membership referendum, 2016, Nix's firm was involved in supporting Leave.EU with its Brexit campaign, according to both Arron Banks of Leave.EU, former Cambridge Analytica employee Christopher Wylie, Cambridge Analytica's business development director Brittany Kaiser, and Leave.EU's communications director Andy Wigmore. \n\nHowever, according to Wigmore, the work for Leave.EU was done \"pro bono\", without any money changing hand: “Because Nigel [Farage] is a good friend of the Mercers. And Robert Mercer introduced them to us. He said, ‘Here’s this company we think may be useful to you.’ What they were trying to do in the US and what we were trying to do had massive parallels. We shared a lot of information. Why wouldn’t you?” Behind Trump’s campaign and Cambridge Analytica, he said, were “the same people. It’s the same family.”\n\nIn February 2018, Nix told the British parliament's Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee that his company had not received data from Facebook; following further media reports the committee's chairman, Damian Collins, said \"We will be contacting Alexander Nix next week asking him to explain his comments.\" Nix denies deliberately misleading the parliamentary Select Committee.\n\nIn March 2018, \"The Observer\" reported that Nix talked \"unguardedly about the company's practices\" when he was secretly filmed by Channel 4 News reporters posing as prospective clients and that Cambridge Analytica was trying to stop the broadcast of the resulting programme. Nix offered \"beautiful Ukrainian girls\" to discredit political opponents in Sri Lanka. The secret filming was screened on 19 March as part of a 30-minute segment, with a follow-up scheduled for the next day, focusing on its involvement in the Trump campaign. The conversation appears to portray Nix including entrapment and bribery as potential Cambridge Analytica services.\n\nOn 20 March 2018, Nix was suspended from Cambridge Analytica.\n\nOn 11 April 2018, \"The Wall Street Journal\" published an article about the CEO position at Cambridge Analytica, saying Nix \"has officially resigned from his position, according to a person close to the company\", but also that a \"company spokesman ... denied that Mr. Nix had submitted his resignation\".\n\nOn 2 May 2018, Cambridge Analytica announced they were \"closing and starting insolvency proceedings\".\n\nOn 8 October 2018, the Guardian reported that Nix referred to the Mia Mottley, the elected Prime Minister of Barbados and other government figures via the racial slur of \"Niggers\" in email communications.\n\nOn 23 January 2018, Nix was appointed director of Emerdata Ltd., a new company incorporated in August 2017, along with SCL chairman Julian Wheatland and Cambridge Analytica chief data officer Alexander Tayler. On 16 March 2018, Rebekah and Jennifer Mercer were also appointed directors, members of the Mercer family which backed Cambridge Analytica financially (by at least $15 million, according to the New York Times). Another director of Emerdata is Chinese businessman Johnson Chun Shun Ko, deputy chairman and executive director of Frontier Services Group, a private security firm which mostly operates in Africa and is chaired by US businessman and strong Trump supporter Erik Prince, who is best known for founding private military group Blackwater USA and being the brother of US education secretary Betsy DeVos. On 13 April 2018, Nix's role of director was terminated.\n"}
{"id": "435203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435203", "title": "Beat music", "text": "Beat music\n\nBeat music, British beat, or Merseybeat (after bands from Liverpool and nearby areas beside the River Mersey) is a popular music genre that developed in the United Kingdom in the early 1960s. Beat music is a fusion of rock and roll (mainly Chuck Berry guitar style and the midtempo beat of artists like Buddy Holly), doo-wop, skiffle and R&B. The genre provided many of the bands responsible for the British Invasion of the American pop charts starting in 1964, and provided the model for many important developments in pop and rock music, including the format of the rock group around lead, rhythm and bass guitars with drums.\n\nThe exact origins of the terms 'beat music' and 'Merseybeat' are uncertain. The \"beat\" in each, however, derived from the driving rhythms which the bands had adopted from their rock and roll, rhythm and blues and soul music influences, rather than the Beat Generation literary movement of the 1950s. As the initial wave of rock and roll declined in the later 1950s, \"big beat\" music, later shortened to \"beat\", became a live dance alternative to the balladeers like Tommy Steele, Marty Wilde and Cliff Richard who were dominating the charts. The German anthropologist and music critic Ernest Borneman, who lived in England from 1933 to 1960, claimed to have coined the term in a column in \"Melody Maker\" magazine to describe the British imitation of American Rock'n'Roll, Rhythm and Blues and Skiffle bands.\n\nThe name \"Mersey Beat\" was used for a Liverpool music magazine founded in 1961 by Bill Harry. Harry claims to have coined the term \"based on a policeman's beat and not that of the music\". The band the Pacifics were renamed the Mersey Beats in February 1962 by Bob Wooler, MC at the Cavern Club, and in April that year they became the Merseybeats. With the rise of the Beatles in 1963, the terms Mersey sound and Merseybeat were applied to bands and singers from Liverpool, the first time in British pop music that a sound and a location were linked together. The equivalent scenes in Birmingham and London were described as Brum beat and the Tottenham Sound respectively.\n\nThe most distinctive characteristic of beat music was its strong beat, using the backbeat common to rock and roll and rhythm and blues, but often with a driving emphasis on all the beats of 4/4 bar. The rhythm itself—described by Alan Clayson as \"a changeless four-four offbeat on the snare drum\"—was developed in the clubs in Hamburg, West Germany, where many English groups, including the Beatles, performed in the early 1960s and where it was known as the \"mach schau\" (make show) beat. The 8/8 rhythm was flexible enough to be adopted for songs from a range of genres. In addition, according to music writer Dave Laing,\n\n\"[T]he chord playing of the rhythm guitar was broken up into a series of separate strokes, often one to the bar, with the regular plodding of the bass guitar and crisp drumming behind it. This gave a very different effect from the monolithic character of rock, in that the beat was given not by the duplication of one instrument in the rhythm section by another, but by an interplay between all three. This flexibility also meant that beat music could cope with a greater range of time-signatures and song shapes than rock & roll had been able to\".\n\nBeat groups usually had simple guitar-dominated line-ups, with vocal harmonies and catchy tunes. The most common instrumentation of beat groups featured lead, rhythm and bass guitars plus drums, as popularized by the Beatles, the Searchers, and others. Beat groups—even those with a separate lead singer—often sang both verses and choruses in close harmony, resembling doo wop, with nonsense syllables in the backing vocals.\n\nIn the late 1950s, a flourishing culture of groups began to emerge, often out of the declining skiffle scene, in major urban centres in the UK like Liverpool, Manchester, Birmingham and London. This was particularly true in Liverpool, where it has been estimated that there were around 350 different bands active, often playing ballrooms, concert halls and clubs. Liverpool was perhaps uniquely placed within Britain to be the point of origin of a new form of music. Commentators have pointed to a combination of local solidarity, industrial decline, social deprivation, and the existence of a large population of Irish origin, the influence of which has been detected in Beat music. It was also a major port with links to America, which made for much greater access to American records and instruments like guitars, which could not easily be imported due to trade restrictions. As a result, Beat bands were heavily influenced by American groups of the era, such as Buddy Holly and the Crickets (from which group the Beatles derived their name, combining it with a pun on the beat in their music), and to a lesser extent by British rock and roll groups such as the Shadows.\n\nAfter the national success of the Beatles in Britain from 1962, a number of Liverpool performers were able to follow them into the charts, including Gerry & The Pacemakers, the Searchers, and Cilla Black. The first act who were not from Liverpool or managed by Brian Epstein to break through in the UK were Freddie and the Dreamers, who were based in Manchester, a short distance away, as were Herman's Hermits and the Hollies.\n\nOutside of Liverpool many local scenes were less influenced by rock and roll and more by the rhythm and blues and later directly by the blues. These included bands from Birmingham who were often grouped with the beat movement, the most successful being the Spencer Davis Group and the Moody Blues. Similar blues influenced bands who broke out from local scenes to national prominence were the Animals from Newcastle and Them from Belfast. From London, the term \"Tottenham Sound\" was largely based around the Dave Clark Five, but other London-based British rhythm and blues bands who benefited from the beat boom of this era included the Rolling Stones, the Kinks and the Yardbirds.\n\nThe term \"British Invasion\" was mainstreamed by T.V. reporter Walter Cronkite to describe the Beatles' arrival in the United States and the outbreak of Beatlemania in 1964. Their appearance on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" soon after led to chart success. During the next two years, the Animals, Petula Clark, the Dave Clark Five, the Rolling Stones, Donovan, Peter and Gordon, Manfred Mann, Freddie and the Dreamers, The Zombies, Wayne Fontana and the Mindbenders, Herman’s Hermits, and the Troggs would have one or more number one singles in America.\n\nBy 1967 beat music was beginning to sound out of date, particularly compared with the \"harder edged\" blues rock that was beginning to emerge.\n\nMost of the groups that had not already disbanded by 1967, like the Beatles, moved into different forms of rock music and pop music, including psychedelic rock and eventually progressive rock. \n\nBeat was a major influence on the American garage rock and folk rock movements, and would be a source of inspiration for subsequent rock music subgenres, including Britpop in the 1990s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "286344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286344", "title": "Bull-baiting", "text": "Bull-baiting\n\nBull-baiting is a blood sport involving pitting a bull against another animal, usually a dog.\n\nIn England during the time of Queen Anne, bull-baiting was practised in London at Hockley-in-the-Hole, twice a week – and was also reasonably common in provincial towns. At Tutbury, a bull was tied to an iron stake so that it could move within a radius of about 30 feet. The object of the sport was for the dogs to immobilise the bull.\n\nBefore the event started, the bull's nose was blown full of pepper to enrage the animal before the baiting. The bull was often placed in a hole in the ground. A variant of bull-baiting was \"pinning the bull\", where specially-trained dogs would set upon the bull one at a time, a successful attack resulting in the dog fastening his teeth strongly in the bull's snout. The extinct Old English Bulldog was bred especially for this sport.\n\nBull-baiting was not only practised as a form of recreation: there existed a \"long-held belief\" that baiting improved the flesh. By the early nineteenth century, the sport began to die out, both because the baiting caused a public nuisance and because of new concerns about animal cruelty.\n\nA Bill for the suppression of the practice was introduced into the House of Commons in 1802, but was defeated by thirteen votes. It was not finally outlawed until parliament passed the Cruelty to Animals Act of 1835, which forbade the keeping of any house, pit, or other place for baiting or fighting any bull, bear, dog, or other animal.\n\nBull-baiting () was widespread in Ireland in the 17th–19th centuries.\n\nIn Dublin, bull-baiting took place near the Cornmarket and in Smithfield. On St Stephen's Day 1789 a riot followed a bull-bait, soldiers fired on the crowd and four were killed.\n\nIn Wexford, the activity arrived in 1621, brought by the Guild of Butchers; bulls were baited twice a year and their hides presented to the Mayor. The area where bull-baiting took place is still called the Bullring.\n\nIn Kilkenny it took place at the site called The Ring, first in 1609, and commonly on the feast-day of John the Baptist (December 27). The last recorded bull-bait was in 1837, after they had become illegal under an 1835 Act.\n\nBull-baiting also took place in Waterford, Naas, Drogheda, Tuam, Carrickfergus, Belfast and Athlone.\n\nIn the 19th Century, and during Spanish Colonial Rule, bulls used to be pitted against bears, in California and Mexico. Kingsley (1920) said that the bulls that fought the bears, at least while California was part of the United States, were not domesticated Hereford bulls, but Spanish Fighting Bulls, whose weight, agility, speed, sharp horns and hot temper were said to be dangerous to both bears and humans, and Wistar (1937) said that those bulls were fearless. In a case of the bull winning, victory could come early, when the bull used its strength to gore the bear to death with its horns, or toss the bear into the air.\n\nBull baiting dogs, including bulldogs and bull and terriers, were bred to bait animals, mainly bulls and bears. During bull-baiting the dog would attempt to flatten itself to the ground, creeping as close to the bull as possible, then darting out and attempting to bite the bull in the nose or head area. The bull would often be tethered by a collar and rope which was staked into the ground. As the dog darted at the bull, the bull would attempt to catch the dog with his head and horns and throw it into the air.\n\nIn 1835, the Cruelty to Animals Act was passed in Parliament that outlawed \"Blood Sport\" in the United Kingdom. The bulldog's work was suddenly over and the bulldog rapidly started dying out. Around 1865 dog fanciers began developing dog clubs which eventually culminated into conformation shows. Many fanciers utilized various remnants of the dog utilized for \"Blood Sport\" to resurrect the \"Bull\" dog and ultimately developed today's modern English bulldog.\n\nWashington Irving, in his book, \"The Adventures of Captain Bonneville\", wrote that a bear was baited, and likewise, a wild, fierce bull, before they were brought by vaqueros to an arena in a small amphitheatre in Monterey, California, to fight each other. He called the fight \"a favorite, though barbarous sport.\" In this case, he said that the bear used its sharp claws against the nose of the bull, before catching its tongue, after being repeatedly gored by the bull. Then the bull overturned it \"with a desperate effort,\" and then 'dispatched' it rather easily.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38373797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38373797", "title": "Canecão Mineiro nightclub fire", "text": "Canecão Mineiro nightclub fire\n\nThe Canecão Mineiro nightclub fire occurred on 24 November 2001 in Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil, killing 7 people and injuring 197 others. The fire was caused by pyrotechnics set off on the stage.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40103276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40103276", "title": "Centre de l'Imaginaire Arthurien", "text": "Centre de l'Imaginaire Arthurien\n\nThe Centre de l'Imaginaire Arthurien (English:\"The Centre for the Arthurian Imaginary\", but often referred to as the Centre Arthurien, English:\"The Arthurian Centre\") is a cultural centre dedicated to the Matter of Britain. It was founded in 1988 in Rennes through the influence of different specialists in Arthurian legend, local politicians, artists and writers. Since 1990 its headquarters has been at the Château de Comper in Paimpont Forest.\n\nIt organises an annual exhibition with the theme of the Arthurian legends and a cultural season with many events, including the Pentecôte du Roi Arthur (\"Pentecost of King Arthur\"), Rencontres de l'imaginaire de Brocéliande (\"Encounters with the Imaginary of Brocéliande\") and the Semaine du dragon (\"Dragon Week\"). The Centre's investment in publicising the art, culture and history of the Arthurian legends and its support for open access to education has brought it public recognition. The members of the Centre also founded the publishing house Artus which publishes books on those themes.\n\nThe foundation of the Centre de l'Imaginaire Arthurien met the needs of the people of the Ploërmel area and the visitors to the forest of Brocéliande (which has been identified with Paimpont Forest) who were looking for a source of information on the legendary King Arthur. It owes much to the contributors of the journal \"Artus\", a publication devoted to the Celtic countries, including specialists such as Gilbert Durand.\n\nThe Centre de l'Imaginaire Arthurien has the objectives of reaching out to the general public on the Arthurian legends, disseminating artistic works (writing, visual arts, music, street arts, storytelling...), promoting the Matter of Britain to contemporary creatives so that they understand and perpetuate it, and enhancing the legendary cultural heritage. In an interview with France 3, Claudine Glot summarised the aims of the Centre by saying that it has a vocation to attract enthusiasts of the Celtic, medieval and Arthurian worlds, and talk about all the works that they inspire, including Heroic Fantasy. It disseminates all that is artistically or historically related to the Arthurian legends and the Forest of Brocéliande and is seen as an organisation that \"maintains the myth\". Claudine Glot attaches great importance to the surrounding \"forest of the soul\" where \"legend breathes.\".\n\nFrom its inception in 1988, the Centre de l'Imaginaire Arthurien has led in multiple areas. Its eclectic exhibitions include modern works as well as Preraphaelite paintings. It organises (and hosts) spectacles, storytelling, concerts, conferences, guided tours in the forest and educational presentations for school groups. The Centre participates in drafting catalogues, educational projects, (\"heritage days\") and outreach in schools and universities, assists in documentary research, and compiles bibliographies and iconographies. There are many scholars from different countries among its members.\n\nIn addition, members of the Centre publish books on these themes through their publishing house Artus: fine art books on Brocéliande, Brittany, Ireland and Scotland; essays (\"Le Gant de Verre\", \"Les Guerriers de Finn\" by ) and theatre with \"La Légende de Deirdre\".\n\nIn 1988, the Centre de l'Imaginaire Arthurien was officially established in Rennes, thanks to the willing efforts of several academics, regional politicians and writers. was among the principal founders, with . The International Arthurian Society and academic writer Gilbert Durand were supporters of the project.\n\nThe first exhibitions were devoted to King Arthur (\"Arturus Rex\", in collaboration with the Université Catholique de Louvain, 1988), Brocéliande and the Forest (1989), Megaliths and Stones(1990) with the participation of Pieter-Paul Koster. These were mounted at various locations in the region, including Ploërmel, Rennes and colleges. In 1990, the exhibition was installed in the Château de Comper and opened throughout the summer. At the same time new activities commenced, such as tours of the Paimpont Forest. Following the fire that raged over 500 hectares of Brocéliande from the 7 to 11 September 1990 the Centre had to begin again and rehabilitated itself.\n\nIn 1991, the exhibition was devoted to cinema and especially the film Excalibur, and the director John Boorman was welcomed at Comper. France 3 Bretagne produced a documentary, then the Centre was involved in planting the l'Arbre d'Or (\"golden tree\") at the entrance to the Val sans retour. It was also in 1991 that the first spactacles were organized in the park at the Château de Comper.\n\nIn 1992, the exhibition focused on graphic novels, with the participation of François Bourgeon. In addition to spectacles, music and storytelling were hosted. The Centre was invited to exhibit in Paris, and to participate in conferences between December 1992 and March 1993.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1996, the Centre collected and highlighted information about Merlin, monarchs and magicians, and the Knights of the Round Table. School groups were invited, , , or held conferences. It organised the exhibits at the Festival des mythes et légendes (\"Festival of Myths and Legend\"s) at the Château d'Amboise (2 to 5 March 1994), and exhibited in the area to the south-east of Rennes for a period of six months. In 1995, the municipal library at Rennes organised the literary event, Un Automne Arthurien (\"An Arthurian Autumn\"). In April 1996, the book \"Hauts-lieux de Brocéliande\" (\"Significant places in Brocéliande\") - born from the work of Centre members - was published by .\n\nOn 8 and 9 March 2001, the symposium \"Le monde et l'autre monde\" (\"The World and the Other World\") was held in Rennes with the participation of members of the Centre de l'Imaginaire Arthurien. The 2005 exhibition \"Les Enchantements de Bretagne\" (\"The Enchantments of Brittany\"), described the adventures experienced by the characters the Arthurian legends. The year 2005 also saw the establishment of a live action role-playing game and a treasure hunt.\n\nIn 2006, the exhibition presented the relations between faeries and knights in the medieval romance and in more recent works. Celtic and medieval faeries, the warriors of Ireland and the Knights of the Round Table were featured, including Lancelot and Viviane. Sets, costumes and accessories were created by artists and artisans.\n\nIn 2007, the annual exhibition was devoted to the Knights of the Round Table. The season was marked by the Knight's Pentecost, a temporary exhibition \"Naissance de la féerie\" (\"Birth of Faerie\") with texts by Pierre Dubois and photographs by Hervé Glot, stories, music (harp), three lectures by Claudine Glot, a medieval kermesse and a show devoted to the Forest. The guest of honour at the Rencontres de l'Imaginaire was Olivier Ledroit. The last event of the season was the European Heritage Days.\n\nIn 2008, the chosen theme of the exhibition was entitled \"Des Celtes au roi Arthur\" (\"From the Celts to King Arthur\"). It demonstrated the Celtic heritage of medieval romances and legends from the Irish epics. During the months of May and June, a photo exhibition devoted to Scotland was mounted. The guests of honour at Rencontres de l'Imaginaire were and . The theme of the 2009 exhibition, \"Dans la forêt de Merlin\" (\"In Merlin's Forest\"), focused on the different facets of the enchanter and his forest. To celebrate the publication of the graphic novel \"\" by the guests of honour at Rencontres de l'Imaginaire in that year were and Jean-Sébastien Rossbach.\n\nIn 2010, the Centre's exhibition was devoted to Arthurian legends and magic. An exhibition and a book dedicated to the Lai of Lanval were created through collaboration with artists from Devon in England. It included works by Breton and English artists such as Terri Windling. A partnership with Chagford Filmmaking Group based in Exeter brought the realisation of the film \"Sir Lanval\". The Centre was also invited to be the guest of honour at the 27th Médiévales de Provins.\n\nIn 2011, the exhibition focused on two faeries: Morgana and Melusine. Pierre Dubois and René Hausman were the guests of honor at the 2011 Rencontres de l'Imaginaire. At the end of June, the singer Nolwenn Leroy came with a team from France 2 to shoot a documentary about the Arthurian legends and the Forest of Brocéliande with the help of the Centre. According to the director Nicolas Mezzalira, in November 2011 the association that manages the Centre comprised about 300 members. It launched a campaign to restore and open La Petite Maison des Légendes (\"The Little House of Legends\") in Concoret on 14 December.\n\nIn addition to the usual days of storytelling, musical events and lectures, 2012 was punctuated by signings with and . During the (\"Spring of Legends\" organised at Monthermé the Centre was guest of honour, making camp and mounting an exhibition. According to the French newspaper L'Union, this festival in the Ardennes was a great success. The guests of honour at the Rencontres de l'Imaginaire 2012 were and .\n\nAt the end of November 2012, La Petite Maison des Légendes officially opened, thanks to a grant by the (\"Heritage Foundation\") in Brittany, to private donations and to subsidies from the , the and from the region. The first event was organised with the Congolese storyteller Jorus Mabiala, and the second marked the publication of the \"Chats, le livre secret\" (\"Cats, the Secret Book\")by Séverine Pineaux.\n\n\nClaudine and Hervé Glot (respectively President and Secretary), Gilbert Durand (Research Fellow, Honorary President) and Michel Le Bris (Writer, Honorary President) were among the founders of Centre de l'Imaginaire Arthurien. Except for Gilbert Durand, who died in late 2012, all remain in office. The elficologistPierre Dubois joined them a few years later and became Chancellor. Artists such as Carmelo de la Pinta and Sophie Busson, as well as researchers (Christian Guyonvarc'h and the archaeologist Jacques Briard who has undertaken excavations in Paimpont Forest) promote or have actively supported the Centre. The composition of the officers has changed over time.\n\nThe Centre de l'Imaginaire Arthurien is open to the public at the château de Comper from the beginning of March to the end of November. Since the end of 2012 Ls Petite Maison des Légendes is open to the public during the winter months when the Château is closed. Both are situated in the Commune of Concoret (Morbihan, Brittany).\n\nSince 2009, the Centre has taken part in event outside Brittany every year (Médiévales de Provins, Printemps des Légendes...).\n\nThe Centre de l’Imaginaire Arthurien has lodged at the Château since 1990. It is open to the public from the beginning of March until the end of October. The Centre rents the entire west wing of the main building. The ground floor is equipped with a bookshop offering hundreds of volumes (books, graphic novels, fine art books etc.) on the legends, the Celts and the Middle Ages, as well the permanent and temporary exhibitions on the theme of the Authurian legends. The projection room, on the first room, enables visiters to watch documentaries (films, reportage, etc.).\n\nThe Château is the starting point for guided visits to the forest. Different events (storytelling, lectures, craft fairs, book signings etc.) are organised there on specific dates: the Pentecôte du Roi Arthur, the Rencontres de l'imaginaire de Brocéliande and the Semaine du Dragon, among others. The Château is itself associated with a legend of the faery Viviane which is often told to interested visiters.\n\nLa Petite Maison des Légendes opened at the end of November 2012. It includes a permanent bookshop and hosts events organised by the Centre de l'Imaginaire Arthurien (exhibitions, displays, briefings) when the Château de Comper is closed in the winter months. La Petite Maison also accommodates the artist-in-residence.\n\nBuilt in the red schist typical of the region, the building is owned by the Centre's Treasurer who has made it available to the Centre for fifteen years. It has been restored thanks to a grant from the Fondation du Patrimoine and public and private donations. Notably, this enabled the repair of the external woodwork.\n\nEach year, the Arthurian Centre's opening season is marked by events, some of which have now been held for more than ten years. The three principal event are the Pentecôte du Roi Arthur, the Rencontres de l'imaginaire de Brocéliande and the Semaine Du dragon. The Château de Comper also hosts conjurers and illusionists during the Samedis de la Magie (\"Magic Saturdays\"). The medieval market in August is an occasion to welcome craftspeople and organise a Kermesse.\n\nThe Pentecôte du Roi Arthur is a medieval spectacle with jonglerie, storytellers, camps, storytelling, camps and other displays such as historical reenactment and living history. As the name suggests, it coincides with the date of Pentecost. It is a celebration of spring and the adventures and encounters which it brings, but most importantly (according to Ouest-France) it is an evocation of King Arthur's coronation day (as described by Robert de Boron in the 13th century) and his commitment to the Church. It was also on Pentecost that the Holy Grail appeared to the Knights of the Round Table.\n\nThe idea for Rencontres de l'Imaginaire de Brocéliande dates to 2002. It was first realised in 2004 and included an exhibition and festival in Concoret and at the Château de Comper. In the years since it has been held solely at Comper. On the last weekend of July, the Centre organises the opportunity for the authors and illustraters of graphic novels, writers and illustraters, to meet their public. It primarily facilitates book-signings, with equestrian spectacles, storytellers and lectures. Since 2011, the Recontres have been held in partnership with the communes of Tréhorenteuc and Paimpont. This intimate festival is above all else friendly.\n\nThe seventh festival which took place on 23 and 24 July 2011 was host to a score of artists and celebrities. Ouest-France, which described this festival as \"essential\", said that its objective is to, \"montrer et donc faire découvrir tout ce qui se fait dans la littérature autour des légendes\" (\"show and demonstrate everything done in the literature around these legends\").\nThe Semaine du dragon was conceived and directed by the Centre and the request of the Pays Touristique de l'Oust de Brocéliande. Pierre Dubois is the patron. It has been held every other year since 2009 (in odd numbered years), at the end of October or beginning of November, to coincide with the Celtic festival of Samhain. Various activities are organised by cultural organisations: storytelling, fire-eaters, tastings, games, meals, concerts, lectures, theatre, films and conferences. The evening of the 31 October is concluded with a vintage brew by the \"Brasserie Lancelot\". In even numbered years,\nLe Retour de Flammes du Dragon (\"The Dragon Flashback\"), an event of lesser magnitude is held over three days.\n\nThe Centre de l'Imaginaire arthurien is internationally recognised as a 'must see' for those interested in the Arthurian legends. RFI hailed the talents of the guides, the richness of the library and the convivial atmosphere. In early February 2012 the Centre met a team from TF1 at the Château de Comper for a \"Closeup on Rennes\", in which Claudine Glot, Nicolas Mezzalira et Séverine Pineaux participated. The Centre de l'imaginaire arthurien has participated in shooting five other documentaries. The first, dedicated to the Forest of Brocéliande, was presented by Patrick Poivre d'Arvor. The Centre also interviewed John Boorman, interviewed Christian-Joseph Guyonvarc'h twice, an interview with François Bourgeon by Pierre Dubois, a presentation of the legends of Brocéliande and an interview with Claudine Glot.\n\nAmong the most prestigious visiters, the Centre includes Mario Vargas Llosa (who is a great admirer of chivalric romance)), Hugo Pratt, Jean Raspail, Laurent Voulzy, Jéromine Pasteur, Sylvain Tesson, Nolwenn Leroy and Patrick Poivre d'Arvor. Between 1988 and 2010, there were more than visiters. Between 1990 and 1996, the Centre's official website received 130 000 visiters, 26 000 people were guided through the Forest and 600 classes held (25 000 visitors, 180 classes and 7 000 people guided through the Forest in the single year of 1996).\n\nThe Petit Futé rommends, \"Especially take the time to devote a long afternoon to discovering the Centre de l'Imaginaire Arthurien, and appreciate the beauty of the exhibits as well as exploring the libraries\". The Guide du Routard mentions the \"rich exhibitions\" et d'un lieu où légendes et histoire se mélangent, où l'environnement participe à l'envolée de l'imagination. The MTV guide mentions the Centre as a, \"lieu propice à l'imagination et au voyage dans le temps, soulignant par ailleurs le très bon rapport qualité-prix des visites au Château de Comper\" (\"a suitable place for the imagination and to travel time, further underlining the great value of visits to the Château de Comper\"). The Société d'histoire et d'archéologie de l'arrondissement de Saint-Malo has also hailed the quality of the exhibitions.\n\nÉditions Artus existed prior to the foundation of the Centre de l'Imaginaire Arthurien, its origin was in the journal of the same name published by the future founders of the Centre. Published from 1979 to 1986, it contained in-depth articles devoted to the Celtic and Nordic countries in the fields of art, legends or history. The editorial board of the journal offered fine art books and research on these themes as well as postcards of drawings by Gustave Doré and the Breton landscape.\n\n"}
{"id": "8356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8356", "title": "December 2", "text": "December 2\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38287612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38287612", "title": "E-Commerce Asia", "text": "E-Commerce Asia\n\nE-Commerce Asia is a business conference and trade fair at AsiaWorld-Expo in Hong Kong. The subject of the event is e-commerce in Asia-Pacific.\n\nPresentations at the conference cover such topics as social commerce, digital marketing, mobile commerce, customer relationship management, and free and open-source software.\n\nE-Commerce Asia is organised by Comexposium, a joint venture of Exposium and Comexpo. E-Commerce Asia 2013 was co-promoted with Cartes Asia, another e-commerce conference in Hong Kong. Among the attending merchants were TMall, 51buy, 360buy, and China UnionPay.\n\nComexposium organizes an annual European e-commerce conference, E-Commerce Paris. Comexposium is a member of the Paris Chamber of Commerce, and is a subsidiary of the Unibail-Rodamco group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11060805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11060805", "title": "Eccles rail crash (1984)", "text": "Eccles rail crash (1984)\n\nThe 1984 Eccles rail crash occurred on 4 December 1984 at Eccles, Greater Manchester, when an express passenger train collided at speed with the rear of a freight train of oil tankers. The driver of the express and two passengers were killed, and 68 people were injured. The cause of the accident was determined to be that the driver of the express train had passed a signal at danger.\n\nThe passenger train involved was 1E79, the 10:05 service from Liverpool to Scarborough, formed of a Class 45 diesel locomotive No.45147, seven passenger coaches and a parcels van. The freight train was 6E85, the 09:00 service from Stanlow Oil Refinery, Ellesmere Port to Leeds, composed of a Class 47 locomotive No.47310 and fifteen tanker wagons containing fuel oil.\n\nThe freight train had just passed Eccles station and was starting to accelerate away when the passenger train, having passed both the Eccles distant signal at caution and home signal at danger, collided heavily with its rear. It was estimated that the freight train was travelling at about 10 mph, whilst the passenger train's speed was between 45 and 50 mph.\n\nThe force of the collision threw the rearmost tanker to the side, but the next two wagons were thrown into the air, with one falling back onto the passenger locomotive. The wagons were badly damaged and escaping fuel oil was ignited by the hot exhaust gases of the locomotive, setting fire to it and the leading two coaches. Fortunately, the leading coach was empty of passengers or the death toll would probably have been much higher. However, the express driver and one passenger were killed instantly, whilst another passenger succumbed to injuries a month later. A number of people received impact injuries and burns and many were also treated for smoke inhalation. Rescue efforts were assisted by the location of the accident, which was adjacent to the M602 motorway, enabling easy access for emergency services.\n\nThe inquiry into the accident was inconclusive. There had been problems with the signalling in the area, and track circuits had been affected by a maintenance gang working on the track nearby, but the inspector was satisfied that the signals which had been passed at danger were working properly and showing the correct aspects. They were, however, not fitted with the AWS warning system to alert the driver to his error. In the absence of any conflicting medical evidence, the inquiry was forced to conclude that the driver had simply allowed his attention to wander and had missed the Eccles signals – it was testified by staff that it was rare for these signals to be at danger.\n\nThe report recommended that these signals be fitted with AWS, work which was quickly completed. The home signal was also fitted with a white back plate, in order to make it more visible against the road bridge that stands behind it.\n"}
{"id": "7581252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7581252", "title": "Employment fraud", "text": "Employment fraud\n\nEmployment fraud is an attempt to defraud people who are seeking or performing employment by giving them a false hope of better employment, often with higher wages. Employment fraud involves activities such as fraudulent representation of income to a borrower who claims self-employment in a non-existent company. It also includes a small number of hours paired with a lot of free time.\n\nRecruitment fraud involves persons misrepresenting themselves as acting on behalf of an employer to offer fictitious job opportunities. The fraud is generally conducted through the internet.\n\nThe company name and/or logo may be included (without authority) on the documentation.\nThere are usually various requests for personal information, such as passport details, bank details.\n\nGenuine employers do not request money transfers or payments from applicants to secure a job, either as an employee or as a contractor.\n\n\nThe victim applies to be a mystery shopper. They are asked to test a money wiring service such as Western Union, and to report back on the experience. In reality, they are helping to launder money and could be open to charges of being a money mule. \n\nThe victim is asked to handle payments on behalf of an overseas company, earning a fee for every payment handled. the companies turn out to be a front for illegal activity – again potentially landing the victim in trouble with the law. \n\nThe victim is guaranteed a certain level of income or employment. To get this they first have to buy something like a business plan, start-up materials or software. They may also be asked to pay money to be put on a directory to 'guarantee' jobs. This is in fact merely a way to get the victim to spend money – there is no job waiting at the end.\n\nPeople selling through a multi-level marketing scheme get commission on the sales of those they recruit, as well as on their own sales. Some multi-level marketing schemes, like selling Tupperware, are legitimate business models. But some multi-level marketing schemes are pyramid schemes in disguise. The products are of poor quality, overpriced and hard to sell, or the victim may be asked to spend a great deal of money on training materials that are completely useless.\n\nA prospective employer overseas says that they'll handle the victim's work visa application. But the victim has to send them the money to process it. Again, this will simply result in the scammer taking the money and vanishing.\n\nIf employment fraud is suspected, one should seek legal advice immediately. Whilst the main aim will be to obtain evidence that will stand up in court, one should proceed with caution. There is a risk of being taken to an employment tribunal should one's suspicions prove incorrect or should one act in a way that breaches an employee's employment law rights. In addition, the way one gathers evidence or checks personal data on employees must comply with the Human Rights Act and the Data Protection Act. Employers should always carry out a full identity check on any new employee.\n\nTheft of goods, money laundering, cyber crime, employee fraud, infringement of intellectual property.\nBusinesses in international trade face a growing threat from crime. Fraud is deceit for financial profit and has cost the UK economy more than £38 billion in the past year (source: National Fraud Authority – annual fraud indicators January 2011). Currently the main threat to international traders is fraud from organised crime, including theft of your goods or your business identity, cross-border crime and road-freight crime. Other risks include infringement of intellectual property or employee fraud.\nThe rise in online trading has created new forms of criminal activity, such as new ways of laundering money. Businesses in the EU can rely on shared laws and commercial procedures to protect them. This action-based guide explains the key risks involved, how to reduce them, and what to do if their business is targeted.\n\n"}
{"id": "25856952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25856952", "title": "Exhibit design", "text": "Exhibit design\n\nExhibit design (or exhibition design) is the process of developing an exhibit—from a concept through to a physical, three-dimensional exhibition. It is a continually evolving field, drawing on innovative, creative, and practical solutions to the challenge of developing communicative environments that ‘tell a story’ in a three-dimensional space.\n\nExhibit designers (or exhibition designers) use a wide range of technologies and techniques to develop experiences that will resonate with diverse audiences–enabling these targeted audiences to access the messages, stories and objects of an exhibit.\nThere are many different types of exhibit, ranging from museum exhibitions, to retail and trades show spaces, to themed attractions, zoos, and visitor centers. All types of exhibits aim to communicate a message through engaging their audiences in meaningful and compelling interactions.\nExhibit design is a collaborative process, integrating the disciplines of architecture, landscape architecture, graphic design, audiovisual engineering, digital media, lighting, interior design, and content development to develop an audience experience that interprets information, involves and engages a user and influences their understanding of a subject. Throughout the planning and design process, exhibit designers work closely with graphic designers, content specialists, architects, fabricators, technical specialists, audiovisual experts, and, in the case of museums and other mission-based institutions, stakeholders like community members, government agencies, and other partner organizations.\nThe exhibit design process builds on a conceptual or interpretive plan for an exhibit, determining the most effective, engaging and appropriate methods of communicating a message or telling a story. The process will often mirror the architectural process or schedule, moving from conceptual plan, through schematic design, design development, contract document, fabrication, and installation. The first phases establish a thematic direction and develop creative and appropriate design solutions to achieve the interpretive and communication goals of the exhibit. The latter phases employ technical expertise in translating the visual language of the designs into detailed documents that provide all the specifications required to fabricate and install an exhibit.\nExhibition design in different parts of the world are influenced by the local culture as well as the availability of materials. Exhibition design in Europe is considered as a meeting place for relationship building while in North America energy is spent on creating a sense of place and building community.\n\nOne of the major shifts in museum and exhibit design in the last decade has been a focus on visitor experience. By identifying the five types of museum visitors and their needs and expectations, museums can design their exhibits to give a positive visitor experience. Participatory activities are also becoming more popular, Nina Simon has done research describing and identifying themes and trends in museums that will attract visitors and educate them in fun and engaging ways. \n"}
{"id": "17018164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17018164", "title": "Ford's Grand Opera House", "text": "Ford's Grand Opera House\n\nFord's Grand Opera House was a major music venue in Baltimore, Maryland, located on West Fayette Street between North Howard and Eutaw Streets. It was founded by theatre manager John T. Ford (also the owner of infamous Ford's Theatre in Washington, D.C. where President Abraham Lincoln was assassinated, April 14, 1865) and designed by architect James J. Gifford. The opera house/theatre opened to the public on October 2, 1871 with a show that included readings from Shakespeare's \"As You Like It\" as well as vocal and orchestral performances. Then owned by 1950s–60s era theatre magnate Morris A. Mechanic, it closed almost 93 years later with its last Broadway show from New York City, \"Something Funny Happened on the Way to the Forum\" in 1964. It was replaced three years later as the prime site for Baltimore live theatre patrons with the opening in the landmark of the new downtown redevelopment project of Charles Center, the starkly modernistic \"Brutalist\" architecture of the Morris A. Mechanic Theatre at the southwest corner of Charles and Baltimore Streets, four blocks to the east.\n\nThe Ford Opera house was later the site of newspaper publisher of the \"New York Tribune\", Horace Greeley's nomination as the Liberal Republican Party candidate from a split Republican Party for the 1872 American Presidential election versus regular Republican Party candidate, incumbent 18th President, Ulysses S. Grant and Democratic candidate Seymour, who was reelected.\n\nThe allure of the theatre attracted many kinds of people. Starting in 1946, Civil Rights activists in Baltimore such as Adah Jenkins began to picket the Ford’s Grand Opera House. This demonstration was a direct result of the Jim Crow policies at the time, which led to segregation in seating, accommodation, and ticket availability for people of colored skin. The Ford Theatre gave specific seating to African-Americans, often in the third row of the theatre. During this period, Civil Rights activists were able to make an impact on the segregation policies of Baltimore’s theatres to the point where it was recognized by the NAACP. \n\nAfter six years of protesting, Ford's Opera House desegregated in 1952. Fords theatre had been operating under segregation since its opening in 1871. After multiple appeals to actors and other influential people in the community, officials in charge of the theatre agreed on the desegregation of the theatre, saying that it would add to the welfare of colored people and help aid in the betterment of race relations. To help end segregation in Ford's theatre, protestors enlisted the help of the NAACP, playwrights, actors, and more which proved to be very effective in bringing awareness to the community. Even Government officials found themselves speaking out against the segregation of Ford's theatre such as Governor McKeldin, when he called the segregation, offensive, illogical, and absurd.\n\n"}
{"id": "31185151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31185151", "title": "Friday (Rebecca Black song)", "text": "Friday (Rebecca Black song)\n\n\"Friday\" is a song by American singer Rebecca Black, written and produced by Los Angeles record producers Clarence Jey and Patrice Wilson. It was released by ARK Music Factory as Black's debut single on March 14, 2011. The song features a rap verse from Wilson, which was uncredited on the single. Its music video caught a sudden surge of hits after \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\" and Rifftrax comedian Michael J. Nelson called it \"the worst video ever made\" on Twitter and the song was featured on the \"Tosh.0\" blog. The song's original reception was highly negative, but it has since become a cult classic, covered by numerous artists and comedians.\n\nThe original video was removed from YouTube on June 16, 2011, due to legal disputes between ARK Music and Black herself. By then, it had already amassed more than 166 million views.. The video was uploaded to YouTube again on September 16, 2011. Since the growth in popularity of the song and video, there have been numerous parody videos and remixes. \"Forbes\" stated that the notoriety of the song is another sign of the power of social media—specifically Twitter, Facebook, and Tumblr, in this instance—in the ability to create \"overnight sensations.\"\n\n\"Friday\" co-writer Patrice Wilson, a worker at Ark Music Factory, explained that he wrote the lyrics \"on a Thursday night going into a Friday. I was writing different songs all night and was like, 'Wow, I've been up a long time and it's Friday.' And I was like, wow, it is Friday!\"\n\nAn Ark Music Factory client told Black's mother about the company's production services in late 2010; Black was 13 at the time, and living in the Anaheim Hills planned community in Anaheim, California. Black's mother, Georgina Kelly, paid Ark Music $4,000 for a song and accompanying video that included a choice of two pre-written songs. According to Kelly, the payment covered one half or less of the production costs of the music video, and Black's family could have paid nothing in exchange for giving up all rights to the song. Black chose \"Friday\", as \"the other song was about adult love – I haven't experienced that yet. I felt like it was my personality in that song.\" Ark Music extensively used the pitch-correcting software Auto-Tune. Although Kelly had some doubts over the quality of the lyrics, Black assured her that \"I sang it as they wrote it, Mom.\"\n\n\"Friday\" uses the 50s progression, an I-VI-IV-V chord progression that many popular songs have used such as \"Heart and Soul\" and \"Unchained Melody\". It is performed in the key of B major at a tempo of 112 beats per minute. According to Randy Lewis of \"Los Angeles Times\", the familiar structure contributes to the song's catchiness, making it what others have called an earworm. The song also sees Black on a harmony track. In a review for \"Rolling Stone\", writer Matthew Perpetua described the vocals as having \"a peculiar tonality that inadvertently highlights the absurdity of boilerplate pop lyrics,\" adding that the tone in the refrain \"sounds unlike anything else in pop music.\" He noted the sound as being not entirely agreeable to listen to, but stated that Black ultimately ends up \"sounding like a distinct singer with an alluring sort of anti-charisma.\" The lyrics of the song speak about \"hanging out with friends and having fun.\" The lyrics reflect the happenings of a day, in the life of a teenager like Black, like eating breakfast and going to school. \"She's excited 'cause it's Friday. Which means a weekend full of possibility awaits,\" a \"Plugged In\" reviewer concluded.\n\nThe song has received almost universally negative reviews from music critics, for its songwriting, instrumentation, Black's singing voice, and the video choreography. Lyndsey Parker of \"Yahoo! Music\" asked if it could be \"the worst song ever.\" On March 29, 2011, it surpassed Justin Bieber's \"Baby\" as the most disliked YouTube video, with 1.17 million dislikes, and once had over 3 million \"dislikes\", accounting for 88% of the total ratings of the video. The video was later removed, although it has since been officially re-uploaded. The co-writer and producer of \"Friday\", Clarence Jey, said about the song that \"the concept we feel seems to have crossed a lot of boundaries, for the better or worse.\" Observers have called it \"bizarre,\" \"inept,\" and \"hilariously dreadful.\" The song and Black herself were \"savaged\" on social networks across the Internet, while being seen as a \"YouTube laughing stock.\" On YouTube, the video was met with negative comments and video responses, including comments interpreted as \"violent\". Kevin Rutherford, a columnist for Billboard magazine, wrote, \"Black's video for 'Friday' is one of those rare occurrences where even the most seasoned critics of Internet culture don't know where to begin. From the singing straight out of Auto-Tuned hell to lyrics such as 'Tomorrow is Saturday / And Sunday comes afterwards / I don't want this weekend to end' and a hilariously bad rap about passing school buses, 'Friday' is something that simply must be seen and heard to be fully appreciated.\" Many other reviewers also singled out the lyrics in particular for criticism, which were described as \"overly simple and repetitive\" by \"TNT Magazine\". Jim Edwards of BNET and Doug Gross of CNN both noted that the rap break from the considerably older rapper was \"creepy.\"\" \"Time\" \"ranked it number two on a list of \"Top 10 Songs with Silly Lyrics.\"\"\"\n\nDespite the overwhelmingly negative reviews, a few reviewers had terrible things to say about the song and video. \"Entertainment Weekly\" writer Joseph Lynch noted that there was \"something sickeningly catchy about this tune that keeps you coming back for more.\" \"Rolling Stone\"'s Perpetua stated, \"When you see this video, you immediately notice everything that it does 'wrong', but it actually gets a lot of things about pop music right, if just by accident.\" \"OK!\" Magazine also noted that \"some are calling the 13-year-old signed singer the next Justin Bieber.\" After watching the video, singer Chris Brown said: \"Honest opinion? It was great. I'll be jammin' to it on \"Friday\", \"Friday\".\" Fellow teenage singer Miley Cyrus denied that she had criticized Black, saying \"I \"am\" a fan\" and that she sang \"Friday\" while driving. Simon Cowell praised Black, saying \"I love her [and] the fact that she's got so much publicity. People are so upset about the song, but I think it's hysterical. [...] Anyone who can create this much controversy within a week, I want to meet. I love people like that.\" He observed that \"any song to do with the weekend annoys you. It reminds me of 'Saturday Night'... It's what we call a 'hair-dryer song,' a song girls sing into their hair dryers as they're getting ready to go out. But the fact that it's making people so angry is \"brilliant\".\" Cowell advised Black not to \"listen to anyone over the age of 18. I'm being deadly serious. Whatever she's done has worked. Whether you like her or not, she's the most talked-about artist in America right now. Nobody over the age of 18 should understand her or like her. So she should just do it her way.\"\n\nPatrice Wilson released his sequel to the song \"Friday\" on May 6, 2012, titled \"Happy\", focusing on Saturdays. Rebecca Black released her own sequel, entitled \"Saturday\", in December 2013.\n\nBy March 21, 2011, the \"Friday\" music video had been viewed more than 30 million times on YouTube. \"Forbes\" estimated that as of that date, Black and ARK Music had earned $20,000 from YouTube's revenue-sharing program, and \"Billboard\" estimated iTunes sales of approximately 43,000 copies, roughly equivalent to $26,700 in royalties. Within a week after being released on iTunes, it had jumped to 19 on their sales chart, on March 19, 2011. \"Friday\" debuted on the US Hot Digital Songs chart at number 57 and went on to peak at number 38. \"Friday\" debuted on the New Zealand Singles Chart at number 33 on March 21, 2011. The song entered the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 at number 72 and rose to 58 the next week. It sold 87,000 copies in the United States over its first two weeks and has gone on to sell 442,000 copies, as of December 2013. The song also received airplay in Sweden. In the United States, it was played 12 times from March 16 to 22, considered low for a \"Hot 100\" song. Despite the song's strong performance elsewhere, Georgina Kelly claimed in late March 2011 that her daughter had not received any money from the song's sales to that point in time, saying \"We haven't received a dime from anywhere.\"\n\nThe concept for the music video is based on the lyrics and presented as a typical Friday for Black. She wakes up and goes to school, meeting her friends on the way. In the evening, after debating whether to sit in the front or back of a convertible, Black and her friends ride the car to a party at 7:45 pm. Patrice Wilson appears near the end of the song to deliver a short rap. The video was shot on January 6, 2011 at Black's father's house with friends and family as extras, and requiring multiple takes over 12 hours. Some of those extras became stars in their own right; her friends Benni Cinkle, Amanda Cooper and Hayley Grodt. Ark Music, according to Black's parents, cautioned them and her that they should not expect her to become famous. Black hoped that her friends and family would enjoy watching the video on YouTube and that it would perhaps help her to later begin a singing career.\n\nThe video was posted on February 10, 2011 and received 4,000 views, enough to please Black, before comedian Michael J. Nelson's Twitter account and a \"Tosh.0\" blog post, \"Songwriting Isn’t for Everyone\", drew attention to it on March 11, 2011, turning the video into a viral hit. Criticism of the song's lyrics, the use of Auto-Tune on Black's vocals, as well as the content of the video also caused it to become viral. On May 9, 2011, comments became subject to prior approval for posting. Two days later, commenting was disabled altogether and archives removed. By June 15, 2011, the video had more than 166 million views, and 3.2 million \"dislikes\" from YouTube users against just 454,000 \"likes\". It also peaked in the top 20 most watched YouTube videos of all time.\n\nAfter reading the harsh reviews of \"Friday\", Black said that \"those hurtful comments really shocked me.\" Ark Music offered to take the video down from YouTube, but Black refused the offer, saying that she did not wish \"to give the haters the satisfaction that they got me so bad I gave up.\" Black's father has accompanied her in public to guard against potential accosters. In response to criticism over the song's significant use of Auto-Tune, Black performed an acoustic version during an interview with ABC News, which earned over 180,000 dislikes on YouTube (84% of total ratings) by November 2011. Later in the interview Black's mother, Kelly, stated that she was \"angry and upset\" after Black was brought to tears by comments, such as \"I hope you go cut yourself and die\" and \"'I hope you cut yourself and get an eating disorder so you'll look pretty.\" Black said, however, that soon she was able to ignore such comments, and asked Justin Bieber, her idol, to perform a duet with her. Although Bieber has not released an official announcement regarding the offer, he posted on Twitter \"sunday comes after saturday? weird.\" Bieber later sang part of the chorus at one of his concerts. \"Rolling Stone's\" Perpetua again praised Black after the interview and said, \"She is actually a pretty decent singer. [...] She is a total sweetheart. [...] Black comes off as a well-adjusted, happy and grateful kid.\" He also pointed out Black's intention to donate part of the profits from the song to school arts programs and relief efforts in Japan following the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. Benni Cinkle, who became known as \"that girl in pink\" and appears during the second verse of the video, released her own song entitled \"Can You See Me Now\" and created an anti-bullying organization (That Girl In Pink Foundation) due to the negative response she got from \"Friday\".\n\nThe video for \"Friday\" was later placed at number one in the \"NME\" list of \"50 Worst Music\nVideos\".\n\nNot long after the \"Friday\" video went viral on YouTube, Black and her mother, Georgina Kelly, got into legal issues with Ark Music over rights to the song. In a March 29, 2011 letter from Kelly's lawyer to Ark Music, it was alleged that Ark Music failed to fulfill the terms of their November 2010 agreement by not giving her the song and video's master recordings, by claiming Black as exclusively signed to the label, and by exploiting the song without permission – for example, selling a \"Friday\" ringtone. While Wilson stated that Kelly \"will get the masters and the song ... [t]hey can have it all\", and agreed that Black was not exclusive to Ark, his attorney claimed that Ark owns the copyright for the song and the November agreement is invalid. In June 2011, Ark Music Factory started charging $2.99 to watch the music video on YouTube. Black's initial response was through a message through her Twitter account saying: \"Thanks for all the messages regarding the $2.99 fee added to Friday video, I have \"nothing\" to do with this!!\"\n\nOn June 16, 2011, YouTube took down the official video for \"Friday\". Instead a message in place of the video read: \"This video is no longer available due to a copyright claim by Rebecca Black. Sorry about that.\" A spokesman for Rebecca Black said her legal team had asked YouTube to take the video down because of an ongoing legal dispute with the song's producers Ark Music Factory. Ark Music Factory responded by saying it was disappointed that Black decided to have the video pulled from YouTube despite the two parties being in \"good faith negotiations\". It added: \"There's been an ongoing, open dialogue with our company. So we were blindsided to get a 'Take Down Notice' alleging copyright infringement instead of a call or e-mail from Rebecca's representatives. Our use of the video has fully been authorized (as evidenced by four uninterrupted months and 160 million-plus viewings without objection) by both Ms. Black and the copyright holder. Regardless, we are going to continue to take the high road and work out the complaint as soon as possible, so that the million-plus people who watch Friday for free each day can continue to enjoy the video.\" On September 16, 2011, the video was restored to YouTube, on Black's official channel.\n\nA cover version was released by the cast of season two of the television series \"Glee\". The cast performed it on the show as well. The official release features cast members Puck (Mark Salling), Artie (Kevin McHale) and Sam (Chord Overstreet) on vocals, as part of the prom festivities on the \"Prom Queen\" episode that aired on May 10, 2011. Series co-creator Ryan Murphy explained to \"The Hollywood Reporter\" the use of the viral hit as a tribute to popular culture. He said: \"There’s a rule for it that's explained in the show. The Glee Club is hired to perform songs for the prom and they were told by the principal to please do popular songs that the kids know.\" Murphy noted that \"Glee\"s \"Friday\" cover offers a different take since it's sung by males for other 17-year-olds: \"The show pays tribute to pop culture and, love it or hate it, that song is pop culture.\"\n\n\nOn April 1, 2011, \"Friday\" was performed by Stephen Colbert, Jimmy Fallon, Taylor Hicks and The Roots on \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon\". The New York Knicks City Dancers joined in. Jimmy Fallon released \"Friday\" as part of his 2012 Warner Records album, \"Blow Your Pants Off\", which featured high-profile acts such as Paul McCartney and Bruce Springsteen. The album won Best Comedy Album at the 2013 Grammy Awards.\n\nThe song has also been covered in a recording by Richard Cheese, and live in concerts by Todd Rundgren, Odd Future, Nick Jonas, and Justin Bieber. Singer Katy Perry performed the song on selected dates during her \"California Dreams Tour\", including at the Rod Laver Arena, Newcastle Entertainment Centre, TD Garden, Air Canada Centre and the 1stBank Center. During the August 5 concert at the Nokia Theatre L.A. Live, Rebecca Black joined Perry onstage, performing the song as a duet.\n\nNumerous parodies of \"Friday\" have been uploaded to YouTube and become viral in their own right. Conan O'Brien and Andy Richter also made a joint parody entitled \"Thursday\" on the \"Conan\" show on TBS. The YouTube phenomenon Bad Lip Reading was launched when an anonymous music and video producer replaced the audio to the \"Friday\" video with new music and lyrics about gang fighting. \"Gang Fight\", released in March 2011, earned Bad Lip Reading a million hits and thousands of subscribers, with many spoofs soon following.\n\nBlack appears as herself in the music video of Katy Perry's single \"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\". She appears as the host of a party in the house next door to that of \"Kathy Beth Terry\". At the end of the video, \"Terry\" attempts to blame the excesses of the party (which had subsequently moved to her own house) on Black, only for her parents (Corey Feldman and Debbie Gibson) to disbelieve her.\n\nARK Music Factory launched its \"Ark's TGI Friday Covers\" project, showcasing cover versions of \"Friday\" by well-known artists alongside other user-submitted tributes, re-works, and parodies of the song/video and inviting users to submit their versions for relaying through Ark Music Factory's site. In November 2012, multiple outlets suggested that Nicole Westbrook was \"the new Rebecca Black\", on release of Patrice Wilson's \"It's Thanksgiving\". Kohl's Department Stores used a modified version of the song as its 2011 Black Friday advertising jingle. The hook \"It's Friday, Friday, gotta get down on Friday\" was changed to \"It's Black Friday, Black Friday, Gotta go to Kohl's on Black Friday\".\n\nBlack made her national television debut by performing a mash-up of the song along with her second single, \"My Moment\", during \"America's Got Talent\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s result night for the YouTube Special round on August 10, 2011. The round featured various acts who have auditioned via YouTube. Rebecca Black sang an acoustic version of the song on \"Good Morning America\". Rebecca performed Friday along with \"My Moment\", live in Suncorp Place, Sydney as a part of Telstra's 4G LTE network launch. She also sang \"Friday\" live on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\".\n\nOn May 5, 2017 Norwegian metal vocalist and YouTuber Leo Moracchioli uploaded a metal cover of \"Friday\" to his popular YouTube channel.\n\nOn National French Fry Day 2018, YouTube personality Miranda Sings in collaboration with Dunkin Donuts, released an adapted version of Friday, as part of the Donut Fries marketing strategy.\n\n"}
{"id": "40064531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40064531", "title": "Gaddafi loyalism after the 2011 Libyan Civil War", "text": "Gaddafi loyalism after the 2011 Libyan Civil War\n\nGaddafi loyalism after the Libyan Civil War refers to sympathetic sentiment towards the overthrown government of Muammar Gaddafi, who was killed in October 2011. It has been responsible for some of the ongoing postwar violence in Libya, though the degree of its involvement has been disputed in a number of instances.\n\nSympathy for Gaddafi and his fallen government is viewed highly negatively by current Libyan authorities—both the legal government and extralegal militias—and parts of general society in postwar Libya, and even accusations of it can provoke harsh responses. In May 2012, the democratically elected postwar government passed legislation imposing severe penalties for anyone giving favourable publicity to Gaddafi, his family, their regime or ideas, as well as anything denigrating the new government and its institutions or otherwise judged to be damaging to public morale. Derisively called \"tahloob\" (\"algae\") by anti-Gaddafi Libyans, suspected loyalists have faced strong persecution following the war. Perhaps 7,000 loyalist soldiers, as well as civilians accused of support for Gaddafi are being held in government prisons. Amnesty International has reported large scale torture and other mistreatment and executions, of those perceived as enemies of the new government.\n\nReports and rumours of organised pro-Gaddafi activity have persisted since the war's end. The Libyan Popular National Movement was organised in exile on 15 February 2012 (the first anniversary of the protests that led to the civil war) by former officials in the Gaddafi government. The party, banned from participating in Libyan elections, may have also cultivated links with armed pro-Gaddafi groups in Libya. Statements from the party sometimes appear on websites affiliated with the so-called \"Green Resistance\" (after the sole colour of Gaddafi's flag), a term sometimes used by sympathisers to refer to supposed pro-Gaddafi militant groups.\n\nFollowing Gaddafi's fall, several states, such as Venezuela, refused to accept the National Transitional Council as the legitimate government, opting to continue recognising the former Gaddafi government. In Libya, loyalists either fled to foreign countries or went into hiding to avoid prosecutions. Shortly before his capture, Gaddafi's son Saif al-Islam appeared on Syrian pro-Gaddafi television on 22 October in an attempt to rally remaining loyalists claiming \"I am in Libya, I am alive and free and willing to fight to the end and take revenge.\"\n\nSeveral days of fighting between fighters from Zawiya and fighters from Warshefana erupted in early November after the fighters from Warshefana set up a checkpoint on a highway near Zawiya and began challenging fighters from the city. Other reports stated that the groups were fighting over the Imaya military base, with Zawiya fighters claiming to be fighting Gaddafi loyalists. Zawiya field commander Walid bin Kora claimed that the Warshefana, riding in vehicles with \"Brigade of the Martyr Muhammad Gaddafi\" written on them and flying Gaddafi's green flag, had attacked his men. He also claimed that his men captured pro-Gaddafi \"mercenaries\" from sub-Saharan Africa. NTC figures, however, denied that they were Gaddafi loyalists, blaming the clashes instead on a misunderstanding. The fighting resulted in between 7 and 14 dead. The National Transitional Council claimed to have resolved the issue over the weekend of the 12 and 13 of November following a meeting with elders from Zawiya and Warshefana.\n\nOn 19 November, Saif al-Islam and four loyalist fighters were captured west of the town of Ubari near Sabha in southern Libya. A nomad who had been hired to guide them in their planned escape to Niger secretly told government forces where Saif al-Islam and his two-vehicle convoy would be passing through. Acting on this information, the Zintan brigade blocked off the area and arrested them on sight. Saif al-Islam was taken to Zintan by plane and, pending trial, he is kept in detention by the Zintan militia.\n\nOn 23 November, clashes erupted as a National Transitional Council militia tried to apprehend a suspected loyalist in Bani Walid, which was one of the last pro-Gaddafi strongholds in the civil war. At least seven people were reported killed, five of them NTC militia.\n\nIn January 2012, residents of Sirte, Gaddafi's hometown, attacked a military camp associated with the NTC on the outskirts of the city.\n\nOn 1 April, between 21 and 34 Zuwara militiamen were detained by members of a neighbouring town's militia. Fighters from Ragdalein stated that they captured the men after months of abuses by a Zuwara brigade, including the looting of property. For their part, the Zuwara local council head accused Ragdalein of being a hub of Gaddafi loyalists. A third version of the events came from the government Interior Ministry which stated that the trouble started when a Zuwara hunting party close to nearby al-Jumail shot and killed a person from that town by mistake. The hunters were then arrested but released later. Another Zuwara council head claimed that the men were tortured before being released and stated that Zuwara came under mortar and anti-aircraft fire by militias from both Ragdalein and al-Jumail.\n\nOn 3 April, reports emerged that the fighting in the Zuwara area was still continuing with at least one Zuwara militiaman killed and five wounded. The losses for militia from Ragdalein and al-Jumail were not known. Clashes were reported at the entrance to Ragdalein while groups in al-Jumail were shelling Zuwara. At least 14 were killed and 80 injured.\n\nOn 4 April, the fighting escalated with the use of tanks and artillery. The reported number of dead was said to had risen to 26, eight from Zuwara and 18 from the outlying towns, and another 142 Zuwarans were wounded. Unconfirmed reports rose up the death toll to 48 killed in the clashes. BBC News aired a report on the story, confirming a number dead. The report also aired an interview with a wounded man from Zarawa, claiming to have been attacked by what he called \"Gaddafi loyalists\". There is no confirmation as to whether or not the clashes had anything to do with the guerrillas.\n\nOn 6 April, French leading newspaper \"Le Figaro\" reported that a dozen people were killed near the border town of Ghat on 1 and 2 April in fighting between former pro-Gaddafi Tuaregs and the Zintan tribe.\n\nThe town of Ghat, in the deserts of southwest Libya, was a stronghold of Gaddafi during his reign. It was the last town in Libya to recognise the new government. Since the fall of Gaddafi, it has been suspected of continuing to be a base of loyalist sentiment. No area in Libya has had as many officials disbarred due to links to the Gaddafi government. The present government has banned its two council members, the local council leader, the secretary to the council, its financial controller, the head of security services, and the heads of the sanitation department and the border guards.\n\nTribal clashes in Zintan broke out on 17 June, after a Zintan man was killed after stopping at a checkpoint while attempting to transport tanks from a weapons depot in Mizda to Zintan. While the Zintanis had played a prominent role fighting in favour of the NTC during the civil war, the neighbouring Mashashya tribe had chosen to side with the Gaddafi government during the civil war.\n\nThe Mashashya tribe chose to side with the Gaddafi government, whilst fighters from Zintan played a prominent role, fighting in favour of the NTC. This, combined with a dispute over land and bitterness over prisoners of war from Mashashya, led to the fighting. It is unclear if Green Resistance had a role in instigating the violence.\n\nAs a result of the fierce fighting between the different tribes, government troops were deployed to the area on 17 June. The area was subsequently declared a military zone. The deployment of soldiers and imposition of a government enforced ceasefire managed to prevent further clashes, with government spokesman Nasser al-Manaa declaring that fighting had ended on 18 June.\n\nIn August 2012, claims surfaced of loyalist remnants attempting to smuggle weapons into Libya in an effort to destabilise the government. A member of the group in Tripoli's Abu Salim neighbourhood, a former pro-Gaddafi stronghold, claimed in an August 2012 interview that loyalist militia were rebuilding their strength and waiting for the right moment to move against the new government. Saadi Gaddafi was claimed to support the group whilst under house arrest in Niger. He warned in early 2012 that he was in contact with sleeper cells who were organising underground resistance. In addition to his son Saadi, Muammar Gaddafi's nephew Ahmad Gaddaf al-Damm, living in hiding in Egypt, was also accused of supporting violent pro-Gaddafi activity. Col. Khamid Bilhayr of the Libyan National Army claimed that other loyalist figures outside the country were sending large quantities of money and support to loyalist groups inside Libya.\n\nOthers claim that despite the group's rhetoric, its operations were limited to bombings and minor instances of sabotage. They were believed to have been behind a bombing outside the headquarters of the Military Police on 10 August. On 19 August, two people were killed and up to five were injured when a car bomb went off at dawn near the former military academy for women. Another car bomb exploded at the same time near the interior ministry, but no one was harmed. The bombings occurred on the eve of the anniversary of the Battle of Tripoli. Tripoli's head of security, Col. Mahmoud Sherif, blamed Gaddafi loyalists for the attack, and the following day Libyan authorities announced they had arrested 32 members of a pro-Gaddafi network in connection with the bombings.\n\nOn the same day as the arrests, a bomb was placed under the car of an Egyptian diplomat. The bomb exploded, but nobody was injured. The incident was also blamed by the government on Gaddafi loyalists.\n\nOn 23 August, Interior ministry spokesman Abdelmonem al-Hur claimed that more than a hundred tanks and twenty-six rocket launchers were seized from an alleged pro-Gaddafi militia (named \"Katibat Al-Awfiyah\", or Brigade of the Faithful), during a government raid on their campsite in Tarhuna. The operation ended with one of the fighters killed, eight wounded and thirteen detained—including the commander—and accused of being linked with the 19 August Tripoli bombings. Three fighters managed to escape.\n\nOmran Shaban, the man held most responsible for the extrajudicial killing of Gaddafi, was abducted by suspected Gaddafi loyalists in Bani Walid in July. He was imprisoned and tortured for two months before being released in September due to government pressure on Bani Walid. He was sent to France for medical treatment, but died of his wounds the same month. The rebels responsible have so far eluded capture or death.\n\nOn 9 September, local militia in Bani Walid drove government forces from the town. Initial reports claimed that a supposed Gaddafi loyalist group called \"Brigade 93\" was responsible for the takeover, although the Bani Walid town elders later denied this, and proclaimed support for the removal of Gaddafi. The elders stated that the accusations of pro-Gaddafi sympathies were orchestrated by the media, and that the town instead was fighting for the removal of the NTC military administration of the town and its replacement by a local council.\n\nOn September 21, government forces were ambushed by alleged Gaddafi loyalists in the city of Brak in south west Libya. Nine soldiers were killed in the attack, with no information of casualties from the attackers.\n\nOn 18 January, the Libyan air force attacked targets in the south of Libya because of unrest blamed on forces loyal to slain leader Muammar Gaddafi. The government also declared a state of emergency after Gaddafi loyalists took over the Tamahind air force base near the southern city of Sabha. On 22 January \"Voice of Russia\" featured a report with Libyans who claimed that much of the southern half of the country as well as Bani Walid had fallen under the control of the \"Green\" Gaddafi loyalists, and that some foreign Libyan embassies were flying the Gaddafi-era green flag in support. The interviewed Libyans claimed to be fighting against a Western-backed \"puppet government\" with ties to Al-Qaeda, and charged that Qatar was paying Sudanese pilots to bomb their positions. On the other hand, the more government-friendly \"Libya Herald\" newspaper reported that a large contingent of Gaddafi-friendly fighters were scattered near Ajilat as they tried to aid other Gaddafi-loyalists in Sabha, with five of them killed. The report claimed that if the events were part of a coordinated movement, \"it does not appear to be well organised, let alone have any significant or measurable support.\"\n\nOn 22 January, the Libyan General National Congress passed Decree 5/2014, \"Concerning the Cessation and Ban on the Broadcasting of Certain Satellite Channels\", aimed at censoring pro-Gaddafi satellite television stations such as al-Khadra (The Green Channel) and al-Nedaa (the Libyan Popular National Movement's channel). Reporters Without Borders subsequently issued a statement calling for the withdrawal of the decree.\n\nOn 24 January, nine soldiers were killed and 27 injured near Tripoli in clashes with Gaddafi loyalists.\n\nOn August 4 \"dozens\" of Gaddafi loyalists staged a rare public demonstration in Benghazi (the only pro-Gaddafi gathering in the city as of yet), chanting pro-Gaddafi slogans and waving the flag of the Jamahiriya, in response to Saif al-Islam Gaddafi's death sentence. The protest was later dispersed after anti-Gaddafi militia opened fire and threw rocks, although no one was reported injured. Continuous fighting was also alleged to have erupted between pockets of pro-Gaddafi militants and ISIL forces in Gaddafi's former hometown of Sirte. Furthermore, protests were reported across the Libyan south, in particular the city of Sabha, where at least four protestors were reported dead after opponents opened fire. Protests were also reported in Tobruk, triggering a large counter-demonstration from those in favour of the 2011 revolution. Another protest happened on August 7 in Bani Walid, a city that was a stronghold of pro-Gaddafi loyalists.\n\nOn 5 May, Gaddafi loyalists alongside with soldiers loyal to Khalifa Haftar captured the town of Zella after an intense battle with Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in Libya fighters near Sirte.\nOn 23 December, a Gaddafi loyalist hijacked a plane which was flying from Sabha to Tripoli and was diverted to Malta.\n\nSaif al-Islam Gaddafi, the son of Gaddafi announced on March 22, 2018 that he will run for president.\n\nIn September hundreds of Gaddafi supporters escaped from a prison in Tripoli in a mass jail break during clashes in the city between the UN-backed government and the 7th brigate.\n"}
{"id": "22132133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22132133", "title": "Gaiety Theatre, Ayr", "text": "Gaiety Theatre, Ayr\n\nThe Gaiety Theatre is a category B listed performing arts venue in Ayr, Scotland. It is noted for its interior rococo features, its atmosphere and its acoustics.\n\nThe Ayr Gaiety was built in 1902, reconstructed after a fire in 1904, its façade remodeled in 1935, and further reinstated after a fire in 1955. In 1995, an annex was constructed, including a new café, box office, dressing rooms and studio space.\nAfter a faltering start, which saw several years as a cinema after World War I, the theatre was bought by Ben Popplewell, from Bradford who already had a track record of success running the Pavilion theatre on Ayr seafront. For fifty years the Popplewell family ran the theatre – latterly as part of the Glasgow Pavilion business. During this time the Gaiety developed a reputation as a variety theatre with a ‘summer’ variety show – the Gaiety Whirl – which ran for 26 weeks at its height. Many Scottish and UK stars appeared regularly on its stage, and several started their careers there. The programme offered more than a summer show however, with several weeks of Shakespeare and regular transfers from Glasgow Citizens theatre, being part of a varied offer. \nAfter seventy years in private ownership the local Council acquired the Gaiety theatre freehold in 1974. It then operated as a municipal theatre under direct local authority management. The programming had much in common with the Popplewell years, with the Gaiety Whirl still a feature and the, by now, popular panto at the core of the programme. But the scope of performances developed and, while the family oriented theme continued, a wider range of presentations developed, including controversial shows such as Borderline Theatres production of Dario Fo’s Mistero Buffo and a touring version of Oh Calcutta! After many years of successful operation the theatre began to lose audiences and the Council felt the revenue subsidy it provided and the requirement for capital investment required a new approach. In January 2009 the theatre closed, leaving Ayr without a theatre – as the Civic Theatre, which had mainly presented drama, had been closed and demolished a little earlier due to asbestos contamination problems.\n\nThe closure met with considerable opposition and dismay among many Ayr residents, particularly since it appeared that the required capital and revenue investment to reopen the theatre would not be available. A public meeting attracted over 400 attendees, the future of the theatre was a key issue in the local press, many Scottish performers expressed their dismay and there was extensive discussion on social media.\n\nIn early 2009 South Ayrshire Council invited tenders to take on the theatre management. Ayr Gaiety Partnership (AGP), a charity formed by local residents for the purpose in Summer 2009, secured preferred bidder status. Just over three years later, having secured financial backing from the Council and Scottish Government, as well as from local fundraising, AGP took on a 99-year lease of the theatre with a vision to do much more than simply re-open the building. Ayr Gaiety Partnerships vision is 'to re-energise the performing arts in South Ayrshire, with the Gaiety Theatre as the hub of a network of venues that will stimulate the cultural life and economic prosperity of the area ensuring that Ayr will once again be a key destination for all those interested in the performing arts.'\n\nFrom the start the organisation set ambitious social, economic and cultural goals. But the first priority was to re-open with a successful panto. On 11 December 2012, after many last minute challenges, the Gaiety re-opened for what turned out to be a sell-out run of over 40 performances of the panto Cinderella.\n\nThe Ayr Gaiety Partnership is a charitable body formed by local community figures, with membership open to local residents. The directors at present are: Ian Welsh, David Quayle, Chris Fremantle, Graham Peterkin, and Professor Gayle McPherson.\n\nMembership is open to local residents and others with an interest in the theatre. Ayr Gaiety Partnership's first General Meeting is set to take place on 13 October 2014.\n\nThe new Ayr Gaiety is unlike most theatres in the UK because it is largely run through voluntary effort. Most of the people undertaking front of house, technical, fundraising, marketing and maintenance are doing so on a voluntary basis. Although the volunteering effort overall is led by the Executive Director and Board- each volunteer team is supported and led by one of the staff team members.\n\nThe Gaiety's current full-time staff team consists of just nine employees led by Executive Director Jeremy Wyatt.\n\nThe School of Media, Culture & Society at the University of the West of Scotland (UWS) and the Gaiety Theatre officially launched Scotland’s first Learning Theatre on Friday 19 September 2014. The launch event, which saw representatives from UWS, the Gaiety, as well as the National Theatre of Scotland in attendance, marks the first stage in the development of the partnership Learning Theatre, which will provide a centre for education, training and research in the area of performance and theatre craft.\n\nUWS enjoys close links with the Gaiety and the University’s new BA Technical Theatre degree, delivered in conjunction with the Theatre, had its first intake in September. The course, the only one of its kind in the country, offers thorough vocational training for those looking to work in stage management and theatre production. Students will gain professional knowledge of the industry and will be prepared for a variety of employment opportunities from small-scale theatres to large multi-media events, venues and festivals. The course is aimed at those with a range of theatre, performance, production and related HND qualifications to enable them to build to a degree award in Technical Theatre. Students from the University's undergraduate Performance programme also make regular use of the theatre's facilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "19966917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19966917", "title": "Haitian Heritage Month", "text": "Haitian Heritage Month\n\nHaitian Heritage Month is a celebration in the United States of Haitian heritage and culture. It was first celebrated in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1998. Tele Kreyol, one of the Boston Haitian Access Television programs, celebrated the whole month of May with a series of programs on Haitian history, culture, and contributions to the world. The month-long celebration has continued with such activities as parades, flag raisings, and exhibits organized by Haitian-Americans United, Inc. (H.A.U.) in collaboration with several Haitian organizations in the New England area.\n\nThe Haitian community of Palm Beach County, Florida, which started the Heritage celebration in 2001, contributed greatly to make the Heritage Month first a statewide celebration, and then, a national one in the United States. South Florida congressman Kendrick B. Meek introduced unsuccessfully a bill in the United States House of Representatives in 2004 and 2006 to recognize the month of May as Haitian-American Heritage Month in the United States. President George W. Bush and his wife Laura Bush sent a letter in May 2005 to congratulate the Haitian-American community for the heritage month and organized a celebration at the White House the same year.\n\nSince 1998, several governors, members of state senates and houses of representatives, mayors and city councilors have issued annual citations and proclamations, recognizing the Haitian Heritage Month celebration in their states or cities.\n\nIn 2008, the Haitian Heritage Month/Flag Day was celebrated with parades, festivals, schools activities, and flag raising ceremonies in the following cities and counties in the U.S.:\n\n\n\nThe Haitian Heritage Month celebration is an expansion of the Haitian Flag Day, a major patriotic day celebration in Haiti and the Diaspora. Haitian President Dumarsais Estimé started the Flag Day celebration with parades, cultural and athletic events in many cities in Haiti in the 1930s, when he was minister of education under President Sténio Vincent. Estime wanted to commemorate annually the creation of the Haitian flag on May 18 to encourage the development of patriotic sentiments among Haitian youth.\n\nBeside the Flag Day celebration, the month of May carries a number of significant historical and cultural traditions that Haitians are proud to make aware of and to pass on to future generations. In Haiti, May 1 is celebrated as Labor and Agriculture Day. May 2 used to be Flower Day. The Congress of Arcahaie that united black and mulatto officers to fight together for Haiti's independence is remembered from May 15 through 18. The revolutionary general, Toussaint Louverture, was born on May 20, 1743. Teacher's Day is May 17, University Day May 18, and Mother's Day is celebrated on the last Sunday of May. For Haitian Catholics, May is the month of Mary, the mother of Jesus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "844076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844076", "title": "Head crash", "text": "Head crash\n\nA head crash is a hard-disk failure that occurs when a read–write head of a hard disk drive comes in contact with its rotating platter, resulting in permanent and usually irreparable damage to the magnetic media on the platter surface. It is most commonly caused by a sudden severe motion of the disk, for example the jolt caused by dropping a laptop to the ground while it is operating or physically shocking a computer.\n\nA head normally rides on a thin film of moving air entrapped at the surface of its platter (some drives of the mid-1990s used a thin liquid layer instead). The distance between the head and platter is called the flying height. The topmost layer of the platter is made of a Teflon-like material that acts like a lubricant. Underneath is a layer of sputtered carbon. These two layers protect the magnetic layer (data storage area) from most accidental touches of the read-write head.\n\nThe disk read-and-write head is made using thin film techniques that include materials hard enough to scratch through the protective layers. A head crash can be initiated by a force that puts enough pressure on the platters from the heads to scratch through to the magnetic storage layer. A tiny particle of dirt or other detritus, excessive shock or vibration (such as accidentally dropping a running drive), can cause a head to bounce against its disk, destroying the thin magnetic coating on the area the heads come in contact with, and often damaging the heads in the process. After this initial crash, countless numbers of fine particles from the damaged area can land onto other areas and can cause more head crashes when the heads move over those particles, quickly causing significant damage and data loss, and rendering the drive useless. Some modern hard disks incorporate free fall sensors to offer protection against head crashes caused by accidentally dropping the drive.\n\nSince most modern drives spin at rates between 5,400 and 15,000 RPM, the damage caused to the magnetic coating can be extensive. At 7,200 RPM, the edge of the platter is traveling at over , and as the crashed head drags over the platter surface, the read-write head generally overheats, making the drive or at least parts of it unusable until the heads cool.\n\nOlder drives typically rotated far more slowly and had larger heads flying higher above the surface of the medium. However, since in many cases, the medium was housed in a removable cartridge or pack and since air filtration was comparatively crude, crashes were fairly frequent and invariably expensive.\n\nHead crashes were a common problem on laptop computers, since they are subject to sudden motion. This has led to the development of technologies that detect sudden motion and take evasive action (for example by parking the heads), sometimes known as active hard-drive protection or \"sudden motion sensing.\" In very old laptop designs, the head of a hard disk drive could become stuck if the laptop lost power, leaving the disk head in an unparked state and potentially leading to scoring of the drive if the laptop was moved. This is now an uncommon problem, as modern hard disk drives which are designed with portability in mind 'self-park' in the event of a power failure. Where such an event occurs in laptops built since 2000, it is more likely that the hard disk controller within the drive was already failing.\n\n"}
{"id": "13965467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13965467", "title": "Kendall Francois", "text": "Kendall Francois\n\nKendall Francois (July 26, 1971 – September 11, 2014) was an American serial killer from Poughkeepsie, New York, convicted of killing eight women, from 1996 to 1998. After his conviction and sentencing, Francois was housed in the Attica Correctional Facility until being transferred to the Wende Correctional Facility shortly before his death. It was revealed in his trial in 2000 that he tested positive for HIV in 1995, but this was not said to have been related to his death.\n\nIn August 2000, Francois was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole. He was incarcerated in Attica Correctional Facility until shortly before his death.\n\nHe died in the Wende Correctional Facility on September 11, 2014, at the age of 43. The official cause of death was \"apparent natural causes.\" According to a woman who corresponded with Francois in prison, he had cancer. \n"}
{"id": "40587105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40587105", "title": "Libya Al Jadida", "text": "Libya Al Jadida\n\nLibya Al Jadida (, meaning \"The New Libya\") is an Arabic daily newspaper based in Tripoli, Libya. It was launched in Tunis during the Libyan Civil War.\n\n\"Libya Al Jadida\" was founded by Mahmoud Al Misrati as an online newspaper in Tunis where he fled during the Libyan Civil War that toppled Muammar Gaddafi in 2011. The publishers of the paper are Faisal Swehli and Osama Swed. Following the foundation of the new regime in Libya the paper was headquartered in Tripoli and was launched as a weekly on 22 August 2012. Later the paper was relaunched as daily.\n\nIn 2012, the paper had a circulation of 7,500 copies.\n\nMahmoud Al Misrati is the editor-in-chief of the paper. Although the paper has full-time staff, freelance journalists also contribute to it.\n\n\"Libya Al Jadida\" is one of a few independent papers in Libya in that it does not represent and have affiliation with any political interest groups and parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "6675545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6675545", "title": "List of Indycar races", "text": "List of Indycar races\n\nThe following are lists of Indy Car (American Championship car) races from 1905 up to and including the 2018 season. The lists include IndyCar events sanctioned by the AAA, USAC, CART and IndyCar:\n\nCurrent Indy Car events sanctioned by IndyCar including :\n\nThe following is a list of future Indycar races as part of the 2019 season: \n\nThe following is a list of former Indycar races: \n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Non-championship race\n\nThese races were cancelled during the IndyCar season for various reasons. This includes all sanctioning bodies.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Non-championship race\n\n\n\nNOTE: Some discrepancy in track calculations used by INDYCAR and CART.\n"}
{"id": "35034850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35034850", "title": "List of disasters in Antarctica by death toll", "text": "List of disasters in Antarctica by death toll\n\nThe following is a list of all known disasters in Antarctica which have resulted in fatalities. It includes disasters which happened on land, as well as in the waters surrounding the continent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44819517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44819517", "title": "List of historical fiction by time period", "text": "List of historical fiction by time period\n\nThis list of historical fiction is designed to provide examples of notable historical works divided by time period. \n\nFor a more exhaustive list of historical novels by period, see , which lists relevant Wikipedia categories; also see the larger List of historical novels, which is organized by country, as well as the more general and .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1908182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908182", "title": "List of pneumonia deaths", "text": "List of pneumonia deaths\n\nIn alphabetical order, this is a list of famous people who died of pneumonia. Also known as \"pneumonic\" individuals.\n\n"}
{"id": "4568503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4568503", "title": "MaX5 Racing Championship", "text": "MaX5 Racing Championship\n\nThe MaX5 Racing Championship is a UK based one-make sports car series using older specification mark 1 1600cc Mazda MX-5s. It was started in the summer of 2003 by Alyn Robson and Jonathan Halliwell, with the first race season being held in 2004. It was based upon the original MX5 Championship that ran between 1990-91 and the American Spec Miata MX-5 Championship. The championship works on the ethos that close racing is exciting racing, and is aimed at drivers who want to race for fun. This is summed up in the championship's slogan, \"Race it to the max.\" The championship has gained success through its cheap racing entry fees and the popular nature of the Mazda MX5.\n\nAlthough the main race calendar contains some major British circuits, including Silverstone and Brands Hatch, the championship has also taken in minor circuits such as Lydden Hill and Mallory Park, circuits not often visited by major British car championships.\n\nTo race in the series, prospective drivers are required to join the MAX5 racing club for an annual membership fee. The minimum racing licence for entering the championship is a National B ARDS (Advanced Racing Driver Schools) licence.\n\nDrivers can compete in the MaX5 races for a whole season, but an Arrive and Drive package is offered in an attempt to attract new drivers into the championship, costing £750 + VAT per race.\n\nThere was a close race for the championship saw Martin Byford winning the Championship from Christian Dick by 2 points at the last meeting of the season. The competition regularly attracted grids of over 20 cars.\n\nThe 2006 season opener is at Mallory Park on April 23. The series has been regularly part of one of National motorsport's major packages, Dunlop's Great and British festivals, which featured Radicals, Ginettas and the Mini Cooper challenge, alongside the MaX5 Racing Championship. The first occasion that the Mazdas featured in the package was on the weekend of 27-28 May 2006 on the Welsh circuit of Pembrey, south Wales.\n\nHere are the final 2006 championship standings:\n\n1. Jonathan Greensmith: 654 points\n2. Paul Sheard: 651 points\n3. Scott Kirlew: 631 points\n\n2007 saw the closest title race in the short history of the MaX5 Racing Championship, with two drivers (Jonathan Greensmith and Paul Sheard) finishing the season level on 827 points in 1st place. A novice driver, Tom Roche, finished in an impressive 3rd place overall.\n\n2008 saw 50% of the drivers leave to form the Ma5da racing championship.\n\nAfter 5 rounds Richard Breland lead the championship with 285 points.\n\nBy this year, virtually all drivers had moved to the new Ma5da racing championship, leaving MaX5 with an average grid of only six cars.\n\nChris Stockton- As well as occasional appearances in the MaX5 Championship, Stockton has also raced in the British Touring Car Championship since 2006 with the same team as in BTC Racing, in a Lexus IS200. He finished 10th in his first BTCC race meeting. In 2004 Chris raced in the Le Mans 24 Hours endurance race in a TVR T400 GT and competed earlier in the year in the European and American Le Mans Series with the same car.\n\nMartin Byford- Another former MaX5 Championship driver to later turn up in the BTCC, Martin now races for AmD Milltek Racing teams in their VW Golf GTi, having succeeded Team Principal Shaun Hollamby as driver, who had stepped back into the role following Tom Onslow-Cole's surprise move to Team AON midway through a round.\n\nPaul Sheard- Sheard has competed in the MaX5 Racing Championship almost since its beginnings in 2004. He was runner-up in the championship before jointly claiming the title in 2007, and has 12 wins, 14 2nd places and 8 3rd places. He previously competed in the TVR Tuscan series and ASCAR, the ill-fated British version of the American stock car racing series, NASCAR.\n\n"}
{"id": "21084915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21084915", "title": "Make It Right Foundation", "text": "Make It Right Foundation\n\nThe Make It Right Foundation is a non-profit foundation founded by Brad Pitt in 2007. The foundation was established to aid in the environmentally friendly rebuilding of New Orleans' Lower 9th Ward after Hurricane Katrina. The organization is currently working in New Orleans, LA, Newark, NJ, and Kansas City, MO.\n\nIn December 2006, Brad Pitt and William McDonough together with Graft Architects founded Make It Right to rebuild 150 safe, energy-efficient and affordable homes for families from New Orleans Lower 9th Ward who lost everything to Hurricane Katrina. As of April 2013, Make It Right has completed 90 homes and is working to finish the remaining 60 homes. The homes in New Orleans were designed by world-renowned architects like Frank Gehry, David Adjaye and Shigeru Ban and each home is LEED Platinum certified by the USGBC. These houses are not typical of New Orleans with their angular shapes and colors of every shade. Make it Right also implements the Cradle to Cradle method which means using material that can be reused and that are safe, renewable energy is utilized, safe drinking water, and improvement is continuous.\n\nThe Make it Right website uses the idea of Laboratory and Library to show how the materials, the construction, and the data available are certifiably green and will ultimately benefit the homeowner.\n\nSome of the topics include: \n\nThese homes use 70% less energy than a conventional home of the same size. It takes about $150,000 to build these homes with labor included. If the costs exceed the estimated price then the foundation covers the fee. Each home gives the builder an idea of how to make the homes more affordable and better constructed.\n\nMake It Right partnered with HelpUSA in Newark, NJ to build a 56-unit multi-family building for disabled veterans. The LEED Platinum building opened on Memorial Day 2012.\n\nIn Kansas City, Make It Right is converting an historic school into 50 affordable rental units for veterans, seniors and people with special needs. The building will also include a community center featuring an auditorium, gymnasium, locker rooms, technology lab, job training center, medical clinic, grocery store and other retail space, along with community gardens, a playground, walking trail and police foot patrol office.\n\nTo build safe, Cradle to Cradle inspired homes, buildings, and communities for people in need. The members of the Make it Right team strive to build homes that are energy efficient and most importantly, healthy and safe for families to live in. The foundation uses methods that are sustainable and affordable.\n\nMake it Right donors are giving people a safe place to live, promote sustainable living and solar energy, and help those in need of reconstruction after natural disaster. Some options of donation are green gifts which include: solar panels, paint, native plants, Energy Star appliances, and more.\n\nAverage energy bills have decreased for the homeowners because of the green technology installed in the Make it Right homes. The homes were initially only available to those whose homes were leveled from Hurricane Katrina but now the green homes are now accessible to teachers and first responders. Lower Nine residents are still eligible and but now the program is extending the offer of housing to others.\n\nThe foundation also employs lawyers, social workers, and loan workers to help the former residents of the Lower Ninth Ward whom many of which lost all documentation during Hurricane Katrina to get through the mortgage application process. The income of the applicants does not affect the applicant's ability to obtain a home. The unsubsidized mortgage is designed to be no more than one third of the applicant's income.\n\nIn addition to Brad Pitt, the following celebrities are also involved with the Make It Right Project:\n\nOn March 10, 2012 at the Hyatt Regency New Orleans, Brad Pitt and Ellen DeGeneres hosted \"A Night to Make It Right\" with Drew Brees and Randy Jackson and performances by Rihanna, Sheryl Crow, Seal, Kanye West, Snoop Dogg, Dr. John and other local favorites. Make It Right raised $5 million at this event, according to the New Orleans Times-Picayune. Just over 1,200 attendees paid between $1,000 - $2,500 to dine on a four course meal created by celebrity chefs, Emeril Lagasse and John Besh. A silent auction also helped contribute to the funds of the Make It Right foundation.\n\nThe foundation came under fire in early January 2014 after over two dozen of the green homes built started exhibiting severe signs of rotting. The foundation reported that the homes used special wood products called TimberSIL which is advertised as free from many of the toxic ingredients. The wood was unable to withstand the extensive moisture that engulfs the city of New Orleans. The foundation announced they are prepared to pursue all legal remedies if necessary.\n\nIn 2018, it was reported that residents of the New Orleans Make It Right homes were complaining that many of the Make It Right homes were rotting and dangerous. They complained of mold and collapsing structures, electrical fires and gas leaks. The residents said the houses were built too quickly, with low-quality materials, and that the designs didn’t take into account New Orleans’ humid, rainy climate. Also, it was reported that Make It Right had not built a home, filed tax forms or updated its website since 2015. The downtown New Orleans office had been closed, the staff had been cut to a handful and residents said their calls went unreturned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48998766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48998766", "title": "Million Dollar Extreme", "text": "Million Dollar Extreme\n\nMillion Dollar Extreme (MDE) is an American sketch comedy troupe. They are known for their online videos, anti-comedy, and public pranks. The members are Sam Hyde, Carroll, and Nick Rochefort.\n\nOn May 7, 2015, it was announced that MDE were slated to have their own live action 15-minute sketch show on the cable network Adult Swim. It was to be set in a post-apocalyptic nightmare world that satirizes the current political climate. Titled \"\", the series premiered on August 5, 2016. \"World Peace\" was subject to internal controversy at Adult Swim due to MDE's documented ties to the alt-right. Three weeks later, it was announced that the show would not be renewed for a second season.\n\nThe troupe has run into various issues with online terms of service violations due to their content and fanbase. On May 4, 2018, the MDE channel was permanently removed from YouTube for a violation of the community guidelines. On September 10th, 2018, the group's subreddit on Reddit was permanently removed for violations of their policy regarding violent content.\n\nChristian Williams of \"The A.V. Club\" describes them: \"Some videos borrow \"Wonder Showzen\"s toolkit, wielding subliminal blips and eye-straining text in service of subversive ends. Some make use of the \"Tim And Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!\" aesthetic, and some are surprisingly slick, with excellent, eardrum-shredding music courtesy of talented mystery-men like Orangy and Vaervaf.\" In the view of Philly Mag's Andrew Thompson: \"The mission of Million Dollar Extreme has always seemed a spin on afflicting the comfortable, except its targets usually aren’t the comfortably powerful. To the extent that satire exists in MDEs comedy, it feels like more of rationalization than a reason for the shock itself.\" Robert Mariani wrote at \"The Federalist\" that the group's comedy style is an example of post-irony: \"Figuring out the intentions of the ironist is easy: whatever is being shown is being mocked. But the post-ironist folds over on his own sincerity with exaggeration, using the ironic not just to ridicule, but also to enjoy the absurdities of what he genuinely appreciates.\"\n"}
{"id": "53246224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53246224", "title": "NRL Grand Final Breakfast", "text": "NRL Grand Final Breakfast\n\nThe NRL Grand Final Breakfast is a breakfast function organised by the National Rugby League on the week of the NRL Grand Final. The breakfast marks the traditional beginning to Grand Final day and is one of the biggest social highlights on the Australian sporting calendar. Watching the event is a ritual for many footy fans and the function plays a huge role in the pre match build up for the Grand Final.\n\n"}
{"id": "44037528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44037528", "title": "Nesf El Donya", "text": "Nesf El Donya\n\nNesf El Donya (in Arabic نصف الدنيا), also known as \"Nesf El Donia\", (meaning \"Half of the World\" in English) is an Arabic weekly women's and political magazine published in Egypt.\n\n\"Nesf El Donya\" was first published in 1989. It is published by Al Ahram publication group and its editors-in-chief are appointed by the Supreme Press Council which is a state-run body. The weekly is based in Cairo.\n\nThe magazine targets the working Egyptian women. It offers political news and covers also articles about legal, religious, social affairs, focusing on their relation to women. The magazine includes a special section on female genital mutilation which features articles about its negative aspects. In addition, the weekly publishes interviews with significant female figures one of which was with Naglaa Ali Mahmoud, wife of Egypt’s former President Mohamed Morsi.\n\nAfkar El Kharadly and Ali Al Sayed are the former editors-in-chief of the weekly. In June 2014, Amal Fawzi was appointed to the post.\n\nThe circulation of \"Nesf El Donya\" in 2000 was 350,000 copies.\n\n"}
{"id": "3281168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3281168", "title": "Nomifensine", "text": "Nomifensine\n\nNomifensine (Merital, Alival) is a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor, i.e. a drug that increases the amount of synaptic norepinephrine and dopamine available to receptors by blocking the dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake transporters. This is a mechanism of action shared by some recreational drugs like cocaine and the medication tametraline (see DRI). Research showed that the (\"S\")-isomer is responsible for activity.\n\nThe drug was developed in the 1960s by Hoechst AG (now Sanofi-Aventis), who then test marketed it in the United States. It was an effective antidepressant, without sedative effects. Nomifensine did not interact significantly with alcohol and lacked anticholinergic effects. No withdrawal symptoms were seen after 6 months treatment. The drug was however considered not suitable for agitated patients as it presumably made agitation worse. In January 1986 the drug was withdrawn by its manufacturers for safety reasons.\n\nSome case reports in the 1980s suggested that there was potential for psychological dependence on nomifensine, typically in patients with a history of stimulant addiction, or when the drug was used in very high doses (400–600 mg per day).\n\nIn a 1989 study it was investigated for use in treating adult ADHD and proven effective. In a 1977 study it has not proven of benefit in advanced parkinsonism, except for depression associated with the parkinsonism.\n\nNomifensine was investigated for use as an antidepressant in the 1970s, and was found to be a useful antidepressant at doses of 50–225 mg per day, both motivating and anxiolytic.\n\nDuring treatment with nomifensine there were relatively few adverse effects, mainly renal failure, paranoid symptoms, drowsiness or insomnia, headache, and dry mouth. Side effects affecting the cardiovascular system included tachycardia and palpitations, but nomifensine was significantly less cardiotoxic than the standard tricyclic antidepressants.\n\nDue to a risk of haemolytic anaemia, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) withdrew approval for nomifensine on March 20, 1992. Nomifensine was subsequently withdrawn from the Canadian and UK markets as well. Some deaths were linked to immunohaemolytic anemia caused by this compound, although the mechanism remained unclear.\n\nIn 2012 structure-affinity relationship data (compare SAR) were published.\n\n2-Nitro-\"N\"-methylbenzylamine with phenylacetyl bromide to give 3. Catalytic hydrogenation over Raney nickel to reduce nitro group, then sodium borohydride reduces keto group to alcohol 4. HSO for ring formation to 5.\n\n"}
{"id": "914517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=914517", "title": "Odyssey of the Mind", "text": "Odyssey of the Mind\n\nOdyssey of the Mind, officially abbreviated OotM, is a creative problem-solving program involving students from kindergarten through college. Team members work together at length to solve a predefined long-term problem and present their solution to the problem at a competition. They must also participate in the spontaneous portion of the competition by generating solutions to a problem they have not seen before. While the long-term problem solution often takes many months to complete and involves various elements of theatrical performance, construction and design, the spontaneous portion occurs the day of the competition.\n\nOdyssey of the Mind is a trademark of Creative Competitions, Inc. (CCI). Competitions are administered by a mixture of regional non-profit associations and the for-profit CCI corporation.\n\nThe Odyssey of the Mind program was co-founded by C. Samuel Micklus and Theodore Gourley in 1978 at Glassboro State College (now Rowan University) in Glassboro, New Jersey. That first competition, known as \"Olympics of the Mind\", involved teams from 28 New Jersey schools. The program is now international, with teams from Argentina, Australia, Belarus, Canada, China, Czech Republic, DODDS, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Japan, Kazakhstan, Lithuania, Mexico, Moldova, Poland, Russia, Singapore, Slovakia, South Korea, Switzerland, Togo, the United Kingdom, and Uzbekistan, regularly competing in addition to teams from the United States.\n\nOdyssey of the Mind teams are divided into four divisions:\n\nThe oldest team member determines the team's division.\n\nThere is also a non-competitive primary division for young children (grades K–2 U.S.), who are given a simplified problem and fewer constraints than the higher divisions. They present and are given feedback at the first level tournament and cannot advance, except for special occasions where officials invite a team to perform again at the State level.\n\nTeams are limited to a maximum of seven team members.\n\nIn the United States, each participating state has its own Odyssey association. Most states are further broken down into regions. Teams compete at the regional level first. The highest-scoring teams progress to the state level. In the U.S. there is no national level. State-winning teams go directly to the World Finals, which have always been held in the U.S., usually at the end of May.\n\nThere are five categories of problems that participants can solve:\n\nHowever, the different aspects of each of the five categories are not exclusive within that category; acting is prevalent in solutions to all five problems, and throwing in knowledge of history into a non-Classics problem or technology in a non-Tech problem will usually earn a team bonus points. \n\nSpecifications differ between problems, but there are some general rules that are crucial for everyone involved in Odyssey of the Mind to know. First, there is the Outside Assistance rule, which heavily stresses that every aspect of a solution must result from the work of the team; parents and coaches absolutely must restrict themselves to supervising the children to ensure that they are safe and focused. Something as simple as a mother adjusting her child’s hat prior to competition is considered outside assistance, and the team will have points deducted from their final score. Thus all brainstorming, building, painting, sewing, and fixing are to be done by the team.\n\nFor each long-term problem, the team must present its solution in eight minutes or less, including set-up time, and the total cost of all materials used must either be under $125 or $145, depending on the problem (see Cost Limit). Each of these rules require participants to push their thinking capacities as they decide how best to utilize their skills, time, and money.\n\nA new problem for each category is presented every year, and the synopses and rules can be found on the official Odyssey of the Mind website.\n\nMost years, one problem is sponsored by NASA.\n\nThere is a \"cost\" limit on the value of all materials used in the presentation of the long-term solution. This limit is typically US$125–145, where the classical, performance, and primary problems have a limit of $125, while the vehicle, technical, and structural problems have a limit of $145. As of the 2006–2007 rules update, some materials have a set \"assigned value\". Some examples include computers and most audio-visual equipment (projectors, radios, televisions, music players, etc.). The suggested cost to write these items down as is anywhere between $5–$10. Still other materials are simply \"exempt\" from cost. This includes batteries and power cords, footwear, tables and chairs. All of these materials, even the exempt, must be listed on the \"cost form\". The judges check this list to make sure that the team is within the cost limit and following the appropriate assigned values and exemptions.\n\n\"Style\" is a component of long-term where teams are scored on specific elements of their presentation. There are five elements scored in style. Often, two of these elements are specified in the problem, the other two are then \"free choice of team\" elements, and the fifth is a score of how well the other elements contribute to the performance overall. The pre-specified elements are related to the problem in some way; they are typically something to do with the appearance of a vehicle, costume, or prop. The free choice items may be anything the team wishes as long as they are not already scored as part of the long-term solution or pre-specified elements. Each element is scored from 1–10, accounting for 50 points of the overall score.\n\nAs the name suggests, teams do not know ahead of time the topic they are to compete in. At the tournament, individual teams enter the competition room and are presented with one of three problem types: Verbal, Hands-on, or Verbal/Hands-On.\n\nIn Verbal problems, teams are usually given a minute to think and then two to three minutes to respond to a theme such as \"make a rhyme using a name or species of an animal\". Teams will then be graded based on the creativity of their individual responses. For instance, \"there is a dog on a log\" is a common answer which would earn the team one point, while \"I can step on an ant, but an uncle I can't\" involves word play, a creative response that is worth 3 or 5 points. Verbal problems encourage individuals to incorporate their knowledge of history, science, literature, and popular culture.\n\nHands-on problems focus on teamwork and the ability to listen to complicated directions. Teams will usually be instructed to build something based on the limited materials given, such as a freestanding tower using a few sheets of paper, some paper clips, a pair of scissors, and a piece of tape. The team with the tallest tower and the best teamwork earns the most points. It should be noted that in OM, if the rules do not say that something cannot be done, then it can; in other words, participants are encouraged to search for creative, outside-the-box solutions.\n\nA Hybrid, or Verbal/Hands-On, problem has aspects of both types, typically either a verbal problem that involves manipulation of physical objects or a two-part problem: build something in part 1, and provide verbal responses with it in part 2.\n\nTeams are allowed up to seven team members in total, but only five may compete in Spontaneous at the tournament. The others may watch the competition, but may not help. Before the competition the team should decide who is on the Verbal, Hands-on, and Verbal/Hands-on subteams, so they can quickly assemble soon after entering the competition room and learning the problem type.\n\nAll teams who advance from their state finals, or their national finals if they are from outside of the US, are invited to World Finals. World Finals is the culmination of the entire year of Odyssey of the Mind.\n\n\nA variety of non-competitive activities are provided at World Finals; the representative one is pin trading, in which participants trade pins from their regions and states with participants from other states and countries. There is a creativity festival where each state/country runs a booth containing a fun activity related to their state. The highlights of World Finals are the opening and closing ceremonies. These ceremonies are held Olympics style in a stadium on campus. Teams march in and sit with other competitors from their state. After the closing ceremonies, several parties are held for different age groups, and a party is held for the coaches. These parties are a reward for all the hard work that teams have put in.\n\nEach team is given a score out of 350 points: 200 from Long-term, 100 from Spontaneous, and 50 from Style. Style is scored from 1-10 in each of the five categories, and the Long-term and Spontaneous problems are scored according to each problem's individual rules. The scores awarded are then scaled within each problem and division based upon the highest score achieved by any team in each of the three scoring categories. So, for instance, the team scoring highest in Long-term in a particular problem and division receives 200 points, and the scores for the other teams in that problem and division are scaled proportionately. A team ranking first in its problem and division in all three elements of the competition would thus receive a \"perfect\" score of 350 points, regardless of the actual raw scores assigned by the judges.\n\nThe Ranatra Fusca Creativity Award is granted to teams who have demonstrated exceptional creativity, the essence of the Odyssey of the Mind program. Winning The Ranatra Fusca Creativity Award at the regional or state level will qualify a team to advance to the next level of competition, even if the team had not placed high enough to advance on their own.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10871929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10871929", "title": "Onward Victoria", "text": "Onward Victoria\n\nOnward Victoria is a musical (1980) with a book and lyrics by Charlotte Anker and Irene Rosenberg, and music by Keith Herrmann. \n\nIts subject is Victoria Woodhull, the 19th-century woman who with her sister were the first women to operate a brokerage firm, at which they became millionaires; and started a newspaper. Woodhull was a proponent for free love and activist for equality of the sexes. Its cast of characters includes Cornelius Vanderbilt, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, restaurateur Charlie Delmonico, and Henry Ward Beecher, with whom Woodhull is linked in a fictional romance that leads to the minister being tried for alienation of affections.\n\nThis musical originated in 1979 as \"Unescorted Women,\" first produced off-off-Broadway by the Joseph Jefferson Theatre Company. With its budget sets and costumes, anachronistic pop score, and camp burlesque-style production numbers (including one in which Woodhull sang the praises of Beecher's physical endowment) intact, headed uptown the following year rechristened \"Onward Victoria\". \n\nAfter twenty-three previews - and with its closing notice already in place - the Broadway production, directed by Julianne Boyd and choreographed by Michael Shawn, opened on December 14, 1980 at the Martin Beck Theatre, where it ran for one performance. The cast included Jill Eikenberry as Woodhull, Michael Zaslow as Beecher, Ted Thurston as Vanderbilt, Laura Waterbury as Stanton, Dorothy Holland as Anthony, Gordon Stanley as Fleming, and Lenny Wolpe as Delmonico.\n\nTheoni V. Aldredge was nominated for the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Costume Design. A Broadway cast recording was released by Original Cast Records.\n\nScene 1: Opening - New York City, 1871 \nScene 2: Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt's Office\nScene 3: Victoria's Salon - Six Months Later\nScene 4: Plymouth Church, Brooklyn Heights\nScene 5: Woodhull and Clafin's Brokerage\nScene 6: Washington, D.C., Congress - May 24, 1871\nScene 7: Victoria's Campaign Tour\nScene 8: Beecher's Study - The Next Day\nScene 9: Victoria's Brokerage/Beecher's Study - Three Months Later\nScene 10: Delmonico's Restaurant - Tow Hours Later\n\nScene 1: Victoria's Brokerage - The Next Day\nScene 2: Beecher's Study - Two Months Later\nScene 3: Victoria's Brokerage - Early Evening\nScene 4: Steinway Hall\nScene 5: Victoria's Brokerage - Two Days Later\nScene 6: Brokerage/Street/Jail\nScene 7: Exterior and Interior of Courtroom - Six Months Later\n\"Not Since Carrie: Forty Years of Broadway Musical Flops\" by Ken Mandelbaum, published by St. Martin's Press (1991), pages 240-41 ()\n\n"}
{"id": "495036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=495036", "title": "Public holidays in Nauru", "text": "Public holidays in Nauru\n\nThis a list of holidays in Nauru, an island nation in [Micronesia]].\n"}
{"id": "54488186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54488186", "title": "Queen Street Childrens Hospital", "text": "Queen Street Childrens Hospital\n\nThis article concerns the building in Belfast, Northern Ireland generally referred to as the \"Queen Street Childrens Hospital\", the \"Belfast Hospital for Sick Children\", and later the \"Queen Street RUC Station\". It was home to a childrens hospital from 1878 to 1932, and was a Royal Ulster Constabulary barracks from 1933 to 2000. It has been effectively abandoned since then and is visibly deteriorating.\n\nThe building was granted listed status in 1979.\n\nThe initial meeting was held at 25 King Street, Belfast, on 15 May 1873. The event was presided over by James Henderson, who would eventually become Lord Mayor of the city. It was attended by 15 other gentlemen representing major industries at the time.\n\nA Board of Management was set up to establish funding and run the resulting medical practice. The main focus was to provide healthcare to the impoverished in a time where government assistance was unknown. The building and general running costs had to come from the public. In deference to this, the original writing which spanned all three storeys on the front of the finished hospital would read; \"Erected A.D.1878 By Voluntary – Subscriptions And Donations – Belfast Hospital For Sick Children\".Some of the more prominent founding Board members were;\n\nDarbishire once said of that first meeting;\"...a few gentlemen of intelligence and earnestness met in a small dusty room in King Street. The speeches were short, but there was the right ring in what was said; it meant work; it meant success.\"Little is known about the fundraising process other than it began with a citywide distribution of flyers. By 1876 they had managed to raise £2000 and the Board decided that this was sufficient for work to begin.\n\nThe site was purchased from the Belfast Corporation in 1876 as an empty plot of land beside the recently built Gas Office. Prior to this, the plot had been used by the Mechanics Guild.\n\nThe building contractor was William McCammond who would also later go on to become the Lord Mayor of Belfast.\n\nThomas Jackson & Son of Corn Market were commissioned to design the hospital. Thomas and his two sons are credited with designing many of the iconic buildings in and around Belfast. Anthony had left the company by this date so the design was probably a collaborative effort between William and his father. Notable examples of their work would include;\n\n\nTheir submitted plan was for a baroque style 44 bed hospital, although it ended up opening with only 18. Many of the beds featured illuminated cards dedicated to donators and notable persons. The initial budget was set at £3,840 although it ended up costing in excess of £5,000. It was completed in 1877 ahead of schedule despite several setbacks. However, when the final lettering was being carved close to the heraldic arms of Belfast, it was decided to change this date to 1878 instead.\n\nFrom 1885 onwards several new roles were created, including; dental specialist, assistant physician, assistant surgeon, external sister, and pathologist. This caused such a strain on funding that the hospital was compelled to stop offering free out-patient medicine as of 1897, opting for a discounted prescription model instead. There was an immediate and catistrophic drop off of out-patient activity and President O'neill repeatedly requested that the decision be reversed.\n\nThe hospital continued operating despite funding deficits, lack of expansion space, wartime inflation, and the deaths of both Robert O'Neill and Joseph Nelson in 1910. It was finally vacated in 1932 after 53 years of operation following the opening of a new hospital on the Falls Road.\n\nThe Northern Ireland Ministry of Home Affairs acquired the old hospital property in 1933 when it became available. They converted it into a barracks for RUC use even though there was already an existing police station in North Queen Street dating back to 1859. The renovations were probably fairly destructive as this was done 46 years before the building became listed.\n\nIt is listed as being one of two stations in Division A under the command of Sergeant Brown, according to the first annual RUC List and Constabulary Directory printed in 1937. Like many other barracks, the building would have been generally left open to the public with its officers patrolling unarmed. This would have been the case right up until the early seventies when the Troubles flared up. It was only after repeated attacks that the officers began to arm themselves and restrict access to the building. Fortifications included a sanger and a tall wire fence. Two constables were shot and murdered on patrol close to the station by the IRA as the Troubles escalated.\n\nThe site operated as a Police station from 1933 to 2000, being decommissioned on 16 January. All operations were transferred over to the Musgrave police station on Victoria Street before the building was vacated.\n\n\"Will you kindly accept a little sum to help in things which must be always cropping up, that you want to do among your little ones? Please tell me when you write how is going on the boy that bought the pig for his family with the money given him for his own wooden leg. God bless you again and again.\"~ excerpt from a letter by Florence Nightingale to Matron Lennox – December 1885\n\nThe Belfast Health and Social Care Trust continue to operate the practice now known as the \"'Royal Belfast Hospital for Sick Children'\" and is currently the only hospital in Northern Ireland dedicated specifically to the care of children.\n\nThe Ladies League also still maintain as a registered charitable institution, now called the \"'Royal Belfast Hospital for Sick Children Ladies League'\" Founded alongside the inaugural hospital Board meeting of 1873, today they provide valuable auxiluary support, funding, and training assistance.\n\n\"There was this notion that the IRA might try to spirit the corpses away and I was there to guard them. I had no firearms or anything.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "24976757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24976757", "title": "ReelWorld Film Festival", "text": "ReelWorld Film Festival\n\nReelWorld Film Festival is a five-day film festival held annually in downtown Toronto. The festival screens \"features, shorts, documentaries, animation, music videos from the Aboriginal, Asian, Black, Latino, Middle Eastern, South Asian and other multi-racial communities.\"\n\nReelworld was founded by Tonya Lee Williams who noted the lack of opportunities for people of colour to break into the film industry. The festival's mandate states that they showcase diverse work from Canada and abroad while bringing together assorted communities. Since 2001, ReelWorld has started a number of initiatives directed towards diverse artists. Reelworld celebrates its 18th year—hosting industry panels and presenting films at Famous Players Canada Square in Toronto.\n"}
{"id": "1130646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1130646", "title": "Rover incident", "text": "Rover incident\n\nThe \"Rover\" Incident () occurred on 12 March 1867 when the American merchant ship \"Rover\", en route from Shantou to Newchwang, was wrecked off the coast of Formosa (Taiwan under Qing rule). The ship struck a coral reef called Qixingyan near Oluanpi and drifted into the area of Kenting. The American sailors were killed by Taiwanese Aborigines in revenge for earlier killings of Kaolut (Koalut/Ku-a-lut/etc) tribe members by foreigners. Subsequently, the U.S. military decided to send a military expedition against the tribe members responsible.\n\nFollowing the wreck of the United States ship and killing of the surviving crew by aborigines, the American Consul to Amoy Charles William Le Gendre quickly traveled to Foochow, arriving on 2 April 1867, to persuade the governor generals of Fukien and Chekiang to intervene and put pressure on the Chinese authorities in Taiwan to resolve the issue. The governor general of Fukien gave Le Gendre permission to go to Taiwan himself, and wrote him a letter of introduction to take to the prefect of Taiwan, asking him to cooperate with Le Gendre, but adding that \"if the consul takes measures to manage the case himself, please invite him not to do so, for these savages might give him more trouble that he thinks.\" Le Gendre commissioned the United States steamer , under the command of Captain John C. Febiger, in order to visit the scene of the wreck and to try (unsuccessfully) to get foreign officials in Taiwanfoo (capital of Taiwan Prefecture, where he arrived on 18 April) to act. After a subsequent failed punitive expedition carried out by Rear Admiral Henry H. Bell of the United States Navy, Le Gendre again returned to Formosa—this time without any reference to his superiors. While in Taiwan, he asserted United States consular authority, selected a deputy consul in north Taiwan, visited the Keelung mines, and gathered information from United States merchants.\n\nThe landing of one hundred and eighty-one officers, sailors, and marines provided with four days' rations and water was made on June 19, under Commander George E. Belknap of the , accompanied by Lieutenant Commander Alexander Slidell MacKenzie, fleet lieutenant as second in command. In the terrible heat, it was \"almost impossible to conduct operations in the middle of the day, and many of the party were attacked by sunstroke. The savages, who had taken up a position in the jungle behind rocks and other places invisible...kept up a heavy fire whenever their foes appeared.\" MacKenzie received a mortal wound to his chest from enemy fire. The American force was \"compelled to withdraw in some confusion to the ships, and soon departed from the island\".\n\nThe Marines were under the command of Captain James Forney, who submitted the following report to Commander Belknap, dated on board the flagship \"Hartford\", at sea, June 17:\n\nThe \"Rover\" Incident played a critical role U.S. military history in terms of shaping the U.S. Marine Corps' \"rules of engagement\" in \"small wars\".\n\nUpon return to south China, Le Gendre managed to persuade the governor general in Foochow to send a military force to southern Taiwan. The force, significantly smaller than the 400 to 500 soldiers recommended by Le Gendre, was dispatched on 25 July 1867. Le Gendre then personally requested a gunboat from Admiral Bell, which he was denied, and eventually managed to commission the steamship \"Volunteer\". He embarked for Formosa on 4 September 1867, telling his superiors that \"I am going there as a mere spectator.. . . I have no jurisdiction over the Chinese forces.\"\n\nLe Gendre quickly assumed \"de facto\" command of the mission from General Liu in the course of a long and difficult march into deep aboriginal lands in southern Taiwan (some of which required extensive road construction). Then, with the aid of William A. Pickering and James Horn, Le Gendre negotiated an effective treaty () guaranteeing the safety of shipwrecked American and European sailors with Tauketok (Tooke-tok/Tokitok), the chief of 18 Paiwan aboriginal tribes in the area when the \"Rover\" had gone ashore.\n\nFollowing the \"Rover\" Incident in 1867, another shipwreck triggered the Mudan Incident which subsequently was the justification for the Empire of Japan to invade and occupy a part of Taiwan in 1874, a decade later the French General Jacques Duchesne defeated the Chinese up the Keelung River. In addition, the Qing court established the Hengchun lighthouse (1888; now Eluanbi Lighthouse) for the protection of the Taiwan Strait and vessels transiting the Bashi Channel.\n\n"}
{"id": "45391623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45391623", "title": "ShortCutz Amsterdam", "text": "ShortCutz Amsterdam\n\nShortCutz Amsterdam (ShortCutz AMS) is an annual film festival promoting short films in Amsterdam, Netherlands held the whole year through.\n\nShortCutz Amsterdam is a film festival held the whole year through, promoting Dutch short films in The Netherlands. Every week has two short films competing. After the end of the calendar month the jury will select the winner of the month. The winner of the month is then nominated for a Mr. Zee Award and the winners will be presented at the end of January at the ShortCutz Amsterdam Annual Award Ceremony\n\n\nThe jury composed of an ambassador and various film directors, actors, culture, and art personalities, determine the prizes for the best short films in the competition. The juries hold the responsibility for choosing the monthly winner and which films will receive a Mr. Zee award.\n\nThe Career Achievement Award has been awarded since 2013. The winners are: \n2017 - Heddy Honigmann, 2016 - Pieter Kuijpers, 2015 - Rutger Hauer, 2014 - Jos Stelling and 2013 - George Sluizer.\n\nThe Mr. Zee Award has various sponsors, including ShortsTV, Camalot Amsterdam, Filmmore and EYE Film Institute Netherlands. The Mr. Zee awards are made by ProtoSpace.\n\n"}
{"id": "34673857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34673857", "title": "Sick baby hoax", "text": "Sick baby hoax\n\nA sick baby hoax is a confidence trick where a person claims, often on a website, that they have an ill child and are struggling to pay for its medical expenses. Some versions of the hoax ask people to make a monetary donation directly, while others simply encourage people to share the story.\n\nProfessional beggars have been exploiting sick children since ancient times. The success of such scams relies on a particular compassion in people towards children. When a child is sick, this particularly touches people's hearts. An early example of this kind of hoax online is the \"sick child chain letter\", an email making the claim that \"with every name that this [letter] is sent to, the American Cancer Society will donate 3 cents per name to her treatment\".\n\nSocial media, such as Facebook, facilitate the following form of this scam. A photo of a sick child is posted online, commonly without knowledge of the relatives, accompanied by a heart-touching story and sometimes a request for donations, which are simply collected by the scammer. Often these photos become viral, so it becomes close to impossible to take them down. Since Facebook has been slow to address the problem efficiently (relying on user takedown requests and reports only), several scam- and hoax-combatting websites have worked together to raise the awareness of social media providers regarding this issue.\n\nIt was observed that these may often be a mischievous modification of the true story of one Craig Shergold, a child with brain cancer, whose efforts were to enter the Guinness Book of Records for receiving most get-well greeting cards.\n\nA variation of this scam is the \"sick parent\" hoax, where an individual will enter a church, charity or other organization and claim they do not have the money for a bus ticket to see their sick or dying parent. An often-flimsy story is usually accompanied by emotional language. They will then ask for cash, saying that such institutions have an obligation to help those in need.\n\n"}
{"id": "49718150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49718150", "title": "Six Days of Atlantic City", "text": "Six Days of Atlantic City\n\nThe Six Days of Atlantic City was a six-day cycling event, held in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Two editions of the event were held; the first in 1909 and the second in 1932, won by track stars William Peden and Franco Giorgetti.\n"}
{"id": "24093113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24093113", "title": "Skeptics in the Pub", "text": "Skeptics in the Pub\n\nSkeptics in the Pub (abbreviated SITP) is an informal social event designed to promote fellowship and social networking among skeptics, critical-thinkers, freethinkers, rationalists and other like-minded individuals. It provides an opportunity for skeptics to talk, share ideas and have fun in a casual atmosphere, and discuss whatever topical issues come to mind, while promoting skepticism, science, and rationality.\n\n\"Skeptics in the Pub\" is not a protected term, anyone can set one up. There also is no formal procedure to organising an event; organisers can fill in activities as they see fit. There are, however, some common approaches across the world in hosting such events that make them more successful.\n\nThe usual format of meetings includes an invited speaker who gives a talk on a specific topic, followed by a question-and-answer session. Other meet-ups are informal socials, with no fixed agenda. The groups usually meet once a month at a public venue, most often a local pub. There are now more than 100 different \"SitP\" groups running around the world.\n\nThe earliest and longest-running event is the award-winning London meeting, established by Australian philosophy professor Scott Campbell in 1999. Campbell based the idea around \"Philosophy in the Pub\" and \"Science in the Pub\", two groups which had been running in Australia for some time.\nThe inaugural speaker was Wendy M. Grossman, the editor and founder of \"The Skeptic\" magazine, in February 1999; this first talk attracted 30 attendees. The London group claims to be the \"World's largest regular pub meeting,\" with 200 to 400 people in attendance at each meeting.\n\nCampbell ran the London group for three years while there on a teaching sabbatical, and was succeeded after his return to Australia by two sci-fi fans and skeptics, Robert Newman and Marc LaChappelle. Nick Pullar, who made a television appearance as \"Convener of Skeptics in the Pub\" on the BBC spoof show \"Shirley Ghostman\", then led the group from 2003 to 2008.\nAs of 2011, the London group was co-convened by Sid Rodrigues, who has co-organised events in several other cities around the world. This group has conducted experiments on the paranormal as part of James Randi's One Million Dollar Paranormal Challenge and co-organised \"An Evening with James Randi & Friends\".\n\nThe ease of use of the internet, via social networking sites and content management systems, has led to more than 100 active chapters around the world, including more than 30 in the US and more than 40 in the UK. In 2009, D. J. Grothe described the rise of Skeptics in the Pub across cities in North America and elsewhere as a prominent example of \"Skepticism 2.0\". SITPs were often founded outside the realm of existing skeptical organisations (mostly centred around magazines), with some successful meetings growing out to become fully-fledged membership organisations.\n\n\"Skeptics in the Pub\" would later serve as the template for other skeptical, rationalist, and atheist meet-ups around the globe, including The James Randi Educational Foundation's \"The Amazing Meeting\", Drinking Skeptically, The Brights, and the British Humanist Association social gatherings.\n\nSince 2010 Edinburgh Skeptics in the Pub has extended the Skeptics in the Pub concept over the whole Edinburgh International Festival Fringe, under the banner \"Skeptics on the Fringe\" and from 2012 done the same at the Edinburgh International Science Festival with the title \"At The Fringe of Reason\". The Merseyside Skeptics Society and Greater Manchester Skeptics (forming North West Skeptical Events Ltd) hosted three two-day conferences, QED, in February 2011, March 2012 and April 2013. Glasgow Skeptics has also hosted two one-day conferences, as of July 2011.\n\nOver the past ten years, the London event has featured lectures by well-known scientists and skeptics. Rarely the guests are proponents of fringe or pseudoscientific views. Notable guests include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54162", "title": "Supercars Championship", "text": "Supercars Championship\n\nThe Supercars Championship (known as the Virgin Australia Supercars Championship for sponsorship purposes) is a touring car racing category based in Australia and run as an International Series under Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) regulations.\n\nSupercars events take place in all Australian states and the Northern Territory, with the Australian Capital Territory formerly holding the Canberra 400. An international round is held in New Zealand, while events have previously been held in China, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and the United States. A Melbourne 400 championship event is also held in support of the Australian Grand Prix. Race formats vary between each event with sprint races between 100 and 200 kilometres in length, street races between 125 and 250 kilometres in length, and two-driver endurance races held at Sandown, Bathurst and the Gold Coast. The series is broadcast in 137 countries and has an average event attendance of over 100,000, with over 250,000 people attending major events such as the Adelaide 500.\n\nThe vehicles used in the series are loosely based on road-going, four-door saloon cars. Cars are custom made using a control chassis, with only certain body panels being common between the road cars and race cars. To ensure parity between each make of car, many control components are utilised. All cars must use a 5.0-litre, naturally aspirated V8 engine. Originally only for Ford Falcon (FG X)s and Holden Commodore (ZB)s, the New Generation V8 Supercar regulations, introduced in 2013, opened up the series to more manufacturers. Nissan were the first new manufacturer to commit to the series with four Nissan Altima L33s followed briefly by Erebus Motorsport with three Mercedes-Benz E63 AMGs. Volvo entered the series in 2014 with Garry Rogers Motorsport racing the Volvo S60.\n\nThe concept of a formula centred around V8-engined Fords and Holdens for the Australian Touring Car Championship had been established as early as mid-1991. With the new regulations set to come into effect in 1993, Ford and Holden were both keen to know the details of the new formula by the end of 1991, putting pressure on the Confederation of Australian Motor Sport (CAMS) to provide clarity on the matter. However, CAMS was waiting to see what the FIA did with its proposed international formula for 2.5 and 2.0-litre touring cars.\n\nThe new rules for the ATCC were announced in November 1991 and indicated that the V8 cars would be significantly faster than the smaller engined cars. During 1992, CAMS looked at closing the performance gap between the classes, only to have protests from Ford and Holden, who did not want to see their cars beaten by the smaller cars. In June 1992, the class structure was confirmed:\n\n\nBoth the Ford EB Falcon and Holden VP Commodore ran American-based engines which were restricted to 7,500 rpm and a compression ratio of 10:1. The Holden teams had the option of using the Group A-developed 5.0-litre Holden V8 engine, although this was restricted to the second tier 'privateer' teams from 1994 onwards, forcing the major Holden runners to use the more expensive Chevrolet engine. The V8s were first eligible to compete in the endurance races of 1992. The distinctive aerodynamics package, consisting of large front and rear spoilers, was designed partly with this in mind, to give the new cars a better chance of beating the Nissan Skyline GT-Rs in those races.\n\nThe new rules meant that cars such as the turbocharged Nissan Skyline GT-R and Ford Sierra RS500 Cosworth were not eligible to compete in 1993, while cars such as the BMW M3 were. However, the M3 received few of the liberal concessions given to the new V8s and also had an extra added to its minimum weight so, with the Class C cars eligible for 1993 only, the German manufacturer's attention switched to the 2.0-litre class for 1994.\n\nCars from all three classes would contest the 1993 Australian Touring Car Championship as well as non-championship Australian touring car events such as the Bathurst 1000. However, for the purposes of race classification and points allocation, cars competed in two classes:\n\nOriginally the 2.0-litre class cars competed in a separate race to the V8s. This was changed for the second round of 1993 after there were only nine entrants in the 2.0-litre class for the first round at Amaroo Park.\n\nWith the new regulations intended to be a parity formula, there were protests by the Holden teams that the Fords had an aerodynamic advantage after they won the opening three rounds, beating the Commodore comprehensively. After round five at Winton, Holden was granted a new front and rear wing package. The BMWs were also allowed a new splitter and a full DTM-specification rear wing. Disparity between the Fords and Holdens continued to be a talking point during the next few years, with various concessions given to each manufacturer to try and equalise the two cars.\n\nFrom 1995, the 2.0-litre cars, now contesting their own series as Super Touring cars, became ineligible for the Australian Touring Car Championship. They did not contest the endurance races at Sandown and Bathurst, leaving these open solely to the 5.0-litre Ford and Holden models.\n\nThe Australian Vee Eight Super Car Company (AVESCO) – a joint venture between the Touring Car Entrants Group of Australia (TEGA), sports promoters IMG and the Australian Motor Sports Commission – was formed in November 1996 to run the series. This set the foundation for the large expansion of the series during the following years. The category also adopted the name 'V8 Supercars' at this time, though the cars themselves were much unchanged. A new television deal with Network Ten and Fox Sports was organised, although this had follow-on effects for the Bathurst 1000 later in the year.\n\nIn February 1997, Tony Cochrane and James Erskine left IMG. Together with David Coe, they formed Sports & Entertainment Limited (SEL) in April 1997. TEGA would have a 75% share in AVESCO, with SEL owning the other 25%. TEGA was responsible for the rules and technical management of the series and the supply of cars and drivers while SEL was responsible for capturing and maintaining broadcasting rights, sponsorship, licensing and sanction agreements.\n\nThe expansion of the series began in 1998, with the first round to be held in the Northern Territory taking place at Hidden Valley Raceway. In 1999, a new street-race on a shortened version of the Adelaide Grand Prix Circuit became one of the first festival-style events which would become common in later years. Australia's capital city, Canberra, hosted its first event on the Canberra Street Circuit in 2000. In 2001, a championship round was held in New Zealand for the first time, at Pukekohe Park Raceway. In 2002, the V8 Supercar support event at the Indy 300 on the Gold Coast became a championship round, having been a non-championship event since 1994.\n\nMajor format changes were made for 1999, with the incorporation of the endurance races into the championship. Control tyres were used for the first time, with Bridgestone selected as the supplier. The series was also renamed from the 'Australian Touring Car Championship' to the 'Shell Championship Series', by virtue of Shell's sponsorship of the category. Reverse-grid races were introduced for multiple rounds in 2000 before being confined to just the Canberra round for 2001. Also in 2001, compulsory pit stops were introduced at certain rounds and the Top Ten Shootout was used at all rounds. The control tyre supplier changed from Bridgestone to Dunlop in 2002 and the series name was changed to the 'V8 Supercar Championship Series' after Shell discontinued their sponsorship.\n\nDiscussions about parity had returned in 2000, with 100 millimetres trimmed from the front spoiler of the Commodore after Holden, in particular, the Holden Racing Team, had dominated in 1998 and 1999. This was in response to the 300 mm removed from the Falcon in previous seasons, and coincided with a 10 mm trim from the Falcon's rear spoiler. The small reduction for the Holden teams was quickly addressed with both cars receiving the same front splitter shortly afterwards, but the Falcon's rear wing remained trimmed. Ford had threatened to withdraw from the series, but nothing came of this. After Holden again dominated in 2001 and 2002, a new set of regulations, dubbed 'Project Blueprint', was introduced in 2003 to close the performance gap between the Commodore and the Falcon, thus creating closer, fairer racing. Project Blueprint was developed by Paul Taylor and Wayne Cattach, who spent two years designing a formula which would eliminate most of the differences between the Fords and Holdens.\n\nProject Blueprint saw the chassis pick-up points, wheelbase, track and driving position become common across both manufacturers. The Holdens were now required to use double wishbone front suspension, similar to that of the Falcon, rather than the MacPherson struts used previously. The aerodynamic packages were comprehensively tested and revised and differences in the porting of each of the manufacturers' engines were also removed. The performance of the new Ford BA Falcon and Holden VY and VZ Commodores was fairly even for the next four years, with Ford winning the championship in 2003, 2004 and 2005 and Holden winning in 2006. Reverse-grid races were used at certain events in 2006 before unpopularity with the drivers, teams and fans saw them abolished halfway through the season.\n\nThe Holden VE Commodore caused controversy when it was introduced in 2007. The production model was longer, wider and taller than the rival Ford BF Falcon and outside of the limits set by Project Blueprint. As a result, the VE race car was granted custom bodywork – namely shortened rear doors and a lowered roofline – in order to meet the regulations. Despite this, the VE was approved for use in the series, along with the BF Falcon, after several months of pre-season testing. Sequential gearboxes were introduced in 2008 and became compulsory by the end of the year. In 2009, E85 (a fuel consisting of 85% ethanol and 15% unleaded petrol) was introduced in an effort to improve the environmental image of the sport. Carbon dioxide emissions decreased by up to 50%, however fuel consumption was increased by 30% to produce the same power as before. 2009 also saw the introduction of a soft compound tyre at certain events to try to improve the quality of the racing and create different strategies.\n\nIn 2005, AVESCO changed its name to V8 Supercars Australia (VESA). The series continued to expand during this time, with races held outside of Australasia for the first time. The series travelled to the Shanghai International Circuit in China in 2005, originally on a five-year agreement, however the promoter of the race dropped their support and the series did not return thereafter. 2006 saw the series travel to the Middle East, with an event held at the Bahrain International Circuit in Bahrain. Multiple new street circuits appeared on the calendar in 2008 and 2009, with new events held in Hamilton in New Zealand, Townsville in North Queensland and at Sydney Olympic Park. The series' Middle East expansion continued in 2010 with a second round held at the Yas Marina Circuit in Abu Dhabi. In November 2010, the series was granted international status by the FIA for the 2011 season, allowing the series to race at up to six international venues each year. As a result, the series name was changed to the 'International V8 Supercars Championship'.\n\n2008 saw the separate boards of directors of VESA and TEGA merge into a single board that was solely responsible for the administration of the category. The new board of directors was composed of four TEGA representatives, two members from SEL and two independent directors. In 2011, TEGA and SEL entered a sale agreement with Australian Motor Racing Partners (AMRP), which had significant financial backing from Archer Capital. This agreement saw SEL lose its 25% stake in V8 Supercars, with Archer Capital taking up a 60% share and TEGA the other 40%. A new board of directors was appointed, with two TEGA representatives and two AMRP representatives.\n\nIn the middle of 2008, a project led by Mark Skaife was organised by V8 Supercars to investigate future directions for the sport. The project had the primary objective of cutting costs to $250,000 per car through the use of control parts and to create a pathway for new manufacturers to enter the series, provided that they have a four-door saloon car in mass production. The new formula, called \"Car of the Future\", was scheduled to be introduced before or during the 2012 season. The plan was publicly unveiled in March 2010 and was shown to incorporate several key changes to the internal workings of the car. The chassis and the cooling, fuel and electronics systems would all be changed to control parts, with changes to the engine, drivetrain, rear suspension, wheels and the control brake package. The safety of the cars was also to be reviewed and improved. While the plans were well received by all of the teams, Holden Motorsport boss Simon McNamara warned potential new manufacturers to stay out of the championship just hours after the plans were released, claiming that they would \"gain nothing\" from entering the series.\n\nMajor changes were revealed to include a switch from a live rear axle to independent rear suspension; the use of a rear transaxle instead of a mid-mounted gearbox; the repositioning of the fuel tank to in front of the rear axle to improve safety; replacing the windscreen with a polycarbonate unit; and a switch from 17-inch to 18-inch wheels. In 2011, it was announced that the Car of the Future would not be introduced until 2013. In February 2012, Nissan confirmed that they would enter the series under Car of the Future regulations with Kelly Racing. Later in 2012, Australian GT Championship team Erebus Motorsport announced they would be running Mercedes-Benz cars in the championship, taking over Stone Brothers Racing. In June 2013, Volvo announced it would enter the series in 2014 in a collaboration with its motorsport arm, Polestar Racing, and Garry Rogers Motorsport. In November 2013 the Car of the Future moniker was dropped in favour of the name \"New Generation V8 Supercar\".\n\nThe series continued its international expansion in 2013, with the first event in North America held at the Circuit of the Americas in Austin, Texas. In 2015, five drivers took part in a series of demonstration races at the Kuala Lumpur Street Circuit as part of the KL City Grand Prix. This was intended to be a precursor to the series holding a championship event at the circuit in 2016. The event was later cancelled due to legal issues affecting the circuit.\n\nIn April 2016, the series reached an agreement with Virgin Australia to rename the series to the \"Virgin Australia Supercars Championship\" on 1 July.\n\nIn December 2014, Supercars released details concerning the future of the category. New regulations, dubbed Gen2 Supercar, were introduced in 2017 to allow the use of two-door coupé body styles and turbocharged four- or six-cylinder engines. However, no teams elected to build cars for the new regulations until 2018. Cars are still required to be based on front-engined, rear-wheel drive, four-seater production cars that are sold in Australia. The chassis and control components will be carried over from the New Generation V8 Supercar regulations, while engine and aerodynamic parity will be reviewed.\n\nThe current New Generation V8 Supercar regulations are an evolution of the previous Project Blueprint regulations. The regulations control many aspects of the car to ensure parity between the manufacturers, allowing for minor differences in the engines and body shapes so that the cars bear some resemblance to their production counterparts. The regulations were also designed to lower the costs of building and repairing a car.\n\nThe body of each car is based on its corresponding production car. However, due to the regulations governing the dimensions of the cars to ensure parity, the race cars are lowered and shortened or lengthened to meet the regulations. As of 2018, only the Ford FG X Falcon, Holden VF Commodore, Holden ZB Commodore, Mercedes-Benz E63 AMG W212, Nissan Altima L33 and Volvo S60 are eligible to compete. To save costs, the front guards, passenger-side front door, rear doors and rear quarter panels are made from composite materials. The tail lamps are carried over from the road car, while the windscreen is replaced by a polycarbonate unit.\n\nThe bodies are built around a control chassis, featuring a full roll cage, originally designed by PACE Innovations but which can be made, or partially made, by other accredited builders, including certain race teams. Many safety features are utilised to protect the driver in the event of a crash. The fuel tank is positioned in front of the rear axle to prevent it from being damaged or ruptured in a rear end impact. The driver is seated towards the centre of the car and extra reinforcement is used on the roll cage on the driver's side to lessen the risk of injury in a side-on collision. The cars also feature a collapsible steering column and a fire extinguisher system.\n\nAll cars have an aerodynamics package consisting of a front spoiler and splitter, side skirts and a rear wing. The aerodynamics package for each manufacturer is homologated after a series of tests which ensure that the different body styles produce near-identical downforce and drag numbers.\n\nThe minimum weight of each car is including the driver, with a minimum load of 755 kg over the front axle. The minimum weight for the driver is 100 kg and includes the driver dressed in a full racing suit, the seat and seat mountings and any ballast needed to meet the minimum weight. Some other components also have a minimum weight, such as the engine (200 kg) and the front uprights (10.5 kg each).\n\nAll cars must be front-engined and rear-wheel drive. All cars use a 5.0-litre, naturally aspirated V8-engine with electronic fuel injection, capable of producing between 460 and 485 kW (620–650 bhp). Manufacturers are free to choose between using an engine based on one from their own line up or a generic engine provided by V8 Supercars. Both Ford and Holden use US-based racing engines with pushrod actuated valves and two valves per cylinder. Mercedes, Nissan and Volvo use modified versions of their own engines, with hydraulic-lift valves and four valves per cylinder. All engines are electronically limited to 7,500 rpm and have a compression ratio of 10:1.\n\nPower is transferred from the engine to the rear wheels through a six-speed sequential transaxle with an integrated spool differential. The individual gear ratios and the final drive ratio are fixed with drop gears at the front of the transaxle allowing the teams to alter the overall transmission ratio for different circuits. The cars use a triple plate clutch. The cars run on E85 fuel with a fuel tank capacity of 112 litres.\n\nAn electronic control unit (ECU), provided by MoTeC, is used to monitor and optimise various aspects of the engine's performance. Numerous sensors in the car collect information which is then transmitted to the team, allowing them to monitor things such as tyre wear and fuel consumption and find potential problems with the car. The ECU is also used by officials during the scrutineering process.\n\nAll cars are required to use a double wishbone setup for the front suspension and independent rear suspension. Both the front and rear suspension systems feature adjustable shock absorbers and an anti-roll bar which can be adjusted from the cockpit.\n\nThe cars use disc brakes supplied by AP Racing on the front and rear, with the master cylinders provided by AP Racing or former control brake supplier Alcon. The front discs have a diameter of and a six-piston caliper, while the rear discs are diameter and have a four-piston caliper.\n\nThe cars use 18-inch control wheels, produced by Rimstock and supplied by Racer Industries, and control tyres from Dunlop. The slick tyre is available in both hard and soft compounds, with teams required to use either or both compounds in each race, depending on the event. A grooved wet tyre is used in damp conditions.\n\nThe New Generation V8 Supercar regulations were intended to reduce the cost of building a car (without engine) from around $450,000 to $250,000, with the cost of an engine coming down from around $120,000 to $50,000.\n\nIn order to compete in the Supercars Championship, drivers are required to hold a CAMS National Circuit Competition Licence, or a licence of an equivalent or higher level. Each car entered is required to have a Racing Entitlements Contract (REC). A REC is a contract between Supercars and a team which outlines the team's entitlements and obligations. RECs may be leased by their owners to another party for a maximum of two years, after which the owner must either use it themselves or sell it. A racing number is tied to each REC, with teams able to apply for a REC number to be changed. The defending series champion is entitled to use the number 1, with the original REC number of that car reserved and not able to be used by another team without the agreement of its owner.\n\nThe RECs were originally issued in 1999. Known as TEGA franchise agreements, they were divided into three categories – Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3. Twelve Level 1 franchises were issued to those teams that had competed in the series full-time since its inception in 1997:\n\nA thirteenth was later issued to Bob Forbes Racing. A Level 1 franchise required a team to race at least one car at all events, and at various times allowed a team to enter up to four cars. Other teams received Level 2 and Level 3 franchises based on their level of participation. The structure was changed a number of times before the present system of 28 RECs was arrived at in 2011. Supercars bought a number of RECs as they became available in order to achieve a long-held desire to reduce the field to 28 cars.\n\nAt the end of 2013, Lucas Dumbrell Motorsport, Tony D'Alberto Racing and Triple F Racing each returned a REC to Supercars. These were put up for sale in 2014, but no bids were received. One was reclaimed by Lucas Dumbrell Motorsport in 2015 after a legal fight. At the end of 2014, a further REC was returned by James Rosenberg Racing. In April 2015, Supercars launched a tender for one REC for the 2016 season, with Triple Eight the successful bidder.\n\nTeams consist of one to four cars, with most one-car teams forming a technical alliance with a larger team. Only the REC holders are allowed to compete at each event, although \"wildcard\" entries are accepted for the endurance races, with a maximum of six extra cars on top of the regular 28. Both Supercars and Development Series teams have entered wildcard entries in previous years. In 2014, the first wildcard entry for a sprint race was issued when Dick Johnson Racing entered a third car for Marcos Ambrose at the Sydney 500.\n\nTeams are required to employ a co-driver for each car during the three endurance races due to the increased race distance and the need for driver substitutions during the race. Teams were able to pair their full-time drivers in one car until a rule change in 2010 that required each full-time driver to remain in his own car and be joined by a co-driver not competing full-time in the series.\n\nThe Drivers Championship title is awarded to the driver who accumulates the most points over the course of the season. If there is a points tie for the series win, the champion will be decided based on the number of races won by each driver (if there is still a tie, it is based on second-place finishes and so on). Teams also compete for the Teams Championship, with the champion team being decided in the same manner as the Drivers Championship. For Teams Championship points scoring purposes, teams with four cars are separated into a pair of two-car teams, while teams with three cars are split into a two-car team and a single-car team. The Teams Championship dictates the pit lane order for the following season.\n\nThe defending driver has the right to carry the number 1 the following year. However, in 2017 Shane van Gisbergen elected not to, continuing to use 97.\n\nA second-tier series, the Dunlop Super2 Series, is run as a support category to the main series at certain events. Initially for privateers who did not have the funding of the professional teams in the late 1990s, the series now serves the dual purpose of developing young drivers before they compete in the main series and a means for main series teams to give their endurance co-drivers more racing experience prior to the endurance races. Teams in the Dunlop Super2 Series compete with cars previously used in the main series.\n\nA third V8 Supercar-based series, the Kumho Tyres V8 Touring Car Series, has been run since 2008 but has no involvement with the Supercars Championship or Dunlop Super2 Series, instead running on the programme of the Shannons Nationals Motor Racing Championships. However, since 2016, several rounds have been run as support categories at Supercars events.\n\nThere are four types of events held in Supercars, each with its own race format: SuperSprint events, International SuperSprint events, SuperStreet events and Enduro Cup events.\n\nThe SuperSprint format is used at the Tasmania SuperSprint, Phillip Island 500, Perth SuperSprint, Winton SuperSprint, Darwin Triple Crown, Ipswich SuperSprint, The Bend SuperSprint and Sydney SuperNight 300.\nThe Phillip Island and Sydney Motorsport Park events feature a single one-hour practice session on Saturday, while all other SuperSprint events have two one-hour practice sessions on the Friday with a fifteen-minute practice session on Saturday. The Winton and Ipswich events feature an extra thirty-minute session on Friday for endurance co-drivers. The SuperSprint format features a fifteen-minute qualifying session held on Saturday to decide the grid for the race on the same day. A single twenty-minute session is held on Sunday morning to decide the grid for the Sunday race. The Darwin event also features a top ten shootout (a session where the fastest ten qualifiers complete one flying lap each to determine the top ten on the grid) following the Sunday qualifying session. A single 120 km race is held on Saturday with a single 200 km race held on Sunday.\n\nThe International SuperSprint format is used at the Auckland SuperSprint and Melbourne 400.\n\nThree thirty-minute practice sessions are held on Friday, while Saturday and Sunday both consist of two ten-minute qualifying sessions which set the grid for the pair of 100 km races held on each day.\n\nThe SuperStreet format is used at the Adelaide 500, Townsville 400, and Newcastle 500.\n\nTwo forty-minute practice sessions take place on the Friday at each SuperStreet event, while a twenty-minute practice session is held on the Saturday at Adelaide. The Adelaide event features a twenty-minute qualifying session on Friday to determine the grid for the Saturday race, while the Townsville and Newcastle events have a single twenty-minute session on Saturday. All three events feature a twenty-minute session followed by a top ten shootout on Sunday. Both the Adelaide 500 and the Newcastle 500 feature a single 250 km race on each of Saturday and Sunday, while the Townsville event features a 200 km race on each of Saturday and Sunday.\n\nThere are three endurance events held during the year: the Sandown 500, the Bathurst 1000 and the Gold Coast 600. These events require two drivers per car and together they form the Enduro Cup, a prize awarded to the driver or drivers who score the most points across the three events.\n\nThe Sandown 500 and the Gold Coast 600 both feature three thirty-minute practice sessions held on Friday, with Sandown having an extra session on Saturday. Practice for the Bathurst 1000 consists of six one-hour sessions held across Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Qualifying for the Sandown 500 involves a twenty-minute session followed by a pair of 60 km \"qualifying races\" held on Saturday. The grid for the first race is based on the qualifying session; the grid for the second race is based on the results of the first. The results of the second race determine the grid for the main race on Sunday. Co-drivers must compete in the first of the qualifying races while the main driver must compete in the second. The Bathurst 1000 features a single forty-minute qualifying session on Friday afternoon followed by a top ten shootout on Saturday. The Gold Coast 600 has two twenty-minute qualifying sessions, one each on Saturday and Sunday, with the Sunday session followed by a top ten shootout. The Sandown 500 and Bathurst 1000 both have a twenty-minute warm-up session on Sunday morning.\n\nThe Sandown 500 and the Bathurst 1000 feature single races held on Sunday, at 500 km and 1000 km in length respectively. The Gold Coast 600 consists of two 300 km races with one held on Saturday and one on Sunday.\n\nPoints are awarded as follows at all championship events. Various different points scales are applied to events having one, two, three or four races, ensuring that a driver will be awarded 300 points for winning all races at any event. Points are awarded to all cars that have covered 75% of the race distance, provided they are running at the completion of the final lap and with a final lap time within 200% of the race winner's fastest lap. At the endurance events, both drivers earn the total points awarded to the finishing position of the car.\n\nTyres are allocated at each event as follows:\nThe Bathurst 1000, also known as the \"Great Race\" and held in some form since 1960, is the most famous race on the Supercars calendar, as well as the longest both in terms of race distance and race time. The race is run over 161 laps of the Mount Panorama Circuit, 1000 km in total, with the race taking between six and seven hours to complete. The event has attracted crowds of nearly 200,000 people. The Peter Brock Trophy, named after nine-time Bathurst 1000 winner Peter Brock, is awarded to the winners of the race. The trophy was introduced in 2006 following Brock's death in a crash at the Targa West rally one month prior to the race.\n\nThe Sandown 500 was first held as a six-hour race in 1964 and has been labelled as the traditional \"Bathurst warm-up\" race. Like the Bathurst 1000, the Sandown 500 is run over 161 laps. Due to the shorter track length of Sandown Raceway, the race is only 500 km and runs for between three and four hours. The Sandown 500 was not held for Supercars from 1999 to 2002 and from 2008 to 2011. During these years, the 500 km endurance races took place at Queensland Raceway (1999–2002) and the Phillip Island Grand Prix Circuit (2008–2011).\n\nThe Adelaide 500 has been held since 1999 and has become the traditional season-opening event. It is run on a shortened version of the former Adelaide Grand Prix Circuit. Consisting of two 250 km races run on Saturday and Sunday, the event has been labelled the most physically demanding by the drivers, due to the length of each race, the nature of the circuit and the effect of the heat. The event's format was changed for 2014, with the Saturday race being replaced with a pair of 125 km races. The event attracts crowds of over 250,000 people and is the only event to be inducted into the V8 Supercar Hall of Fame. The Adelaide 500 was the first carnival-style event which would become common in the ten years after its inception, with music concerts held during the night.\n\nThe Gold Coast 600 was introduced in 2009 after the American IndyCar Series elected not to return to the Surfers Paradise circuit that year. The A1 Grand Prix series was scheduled to fill the void left by IndyCar, however the owners of the series went into liquidation in June 2009 and, as a result, the A1 Grand Prix cars were withdrawn from the event. In order to compensate for this, Supercars introduced a new four-race format, with two 150 km races held on each day. In 2010 the format changed to include two 300 km races and it became a two-driver event. To restore the event's previous international flavour, each team was required to have at least one co-driver with an 'international reputation' (that is, they were recognised for exploits in motorsport outside of Australia). In 2011 and 2012, all entries required an international co-driver. In 2013 the international co-driver rule was dropped, due to a number of incidents during the 2012 event and the formation of the Endurance Cup, but teams could still choose to employ an international driver for the endurance races.\n\nIn 2004, Supercars introduced the name \"Grand Finale\" for the final round of the season (having called it \"The Main Event\" in 2003 and the \"V8 Ultimate\" in 2001 and 2002). The Grand Finale was held at Sandown Raceway in 2001 and 2002, Sydney Motorsport Park in 2003 and 2004, Phillip Island in 2005, 2006 and 2007 and Oran Park Raceway in 2008. The Grand Finale name was used until 2008 before the Sydney 500 became the final event of the series in 2009. The Sydney 500 was held around the streets of Sydney Olympic Park. Its format was similar to the Adelaide 500, with a 250 km race held on both Saturday and Sunday. Despite having a relatively simple layout, the circuit was one of the more challenging on the calendar – as evidenced in the 2010 title decider when, in wet conditions, the top three championship runners all slid into the wall at the same time – effectively handing the title to James Courtney. The Sydney 500 was held for the final time in 2016. The event at Sydney Olympic Park was replaced with a new street race in Newcastle, 150 km north of Sydney, which will consist of the streets in the eastern suburbs of the city.\n\nThe series is currently broadcast on Fox Sports and Network Ten, in a deal worth $241 million. Fox Sports shows all practice and qualifying sessions live along with the races. Ten shows only seven events live which are Adelaide, Melbourne, Townsville, Sandown, Bathurst, Gold Coast and Newcastle with the rest shown as a highlights package after the races have finished. The coverage is produced by Supercars Media, a specialist production company for Supercars Australia. Supercars Media provides the commentary for each race, with former champion and Bathurst winner Mark Skaife as lead commentator, along with Neil Crompton as expert commentator. Mark Larkham, Riana Crehan and former driver Greg Murphy cover the pit lane. Both Fox Sports and Ten use their own commentary team for pre- and post-race coverage. Supercars Media records the series in 1080i high-definition, with many cars carrying four or more onboard-cameras, though HD coverage is available only to subscribers of Foxtel HD. \n\nThe series had previously been broadcast by the Seven Network, from 1963 to 1996 and from 2007 to 2014, Network Ten and Fox Sports from 1997 to 2006 and from 2015 onwards, During the years of Network Ten and Fox Sports continued to broadcast the series once a year for the Melbourne 400 championship races, which are a support category at the Formula One Rolex Australian Grand Prix, which was broadcast by Ten and Fox Sports. Previously when the Nine Network held the Formula One Rolex Australian Grand Prix broadcast rights in Australia, they would broadcast the Supercars support races at the Formula One Rolex Australian Grand Prix. All support category races were tied up with the Formula One Rolex Australian Grand Prix broadcast rights as a package.\n\nTen's television series \"RPM\", which has aired from 1997 to 2008, in 2011 and from 2015 onwards, has covered Supercars, alongside other motorsports. From 2007 to 2014, Seven broadcast a weekly 25-minute show titled \"V8Xtra\" on non-racing weekends. The dedicated Supercars program covered news and feature items relating to the series. Since 2015, Fox Sports has broadcast a similar show, \"Inside Supercars\", a weekly one-hour long program featuring a panel led by Rust and Mark Skaife. In the same year, Fox Sports also launched an observational show \"Supercars Life\", featuring behind the scenes footage from race weekends and features on drivers' lives away from the track. In 2018, \"Inside Supercars\" was superseded by a new show on Fox Sports, \"Supercars Trackside\". Instead of being filmed in a studio midweek, the show is filmed on the Thursday before and the Sunday after each race meeting at the circuit.\n\nThe television broadcast of the Bathurst 1000 has won a Logie Award for the Most Outstanding Sports Coverage seven times, most recently for the 2017 Bathurst 1000. Foxtel broadcast the 2018 Bathurst 1000 in 4K resolution, the first such broadcast in Australian sport.\n\nSupercars races are broadcast on the following channels:\nThe series has its own live streaming pay-per-view service, Superview. The service, which started in 2013, currently shows all races as well as qualifying sessions. The service is not available in New Zealand and Australia due to their current broadcasting rights with Sky Sport and Fox Sports.\n\nThe series has its own website, which contains information about the series, drivers, teams and events and news articles, and a radio show, V8 Insiders. News is also featured on motorsport websites such as Speedcafe, V8X Magazine and Touring Car Times. A media deal with News Corp Australia has been in place since 2009.\n\nSupercars have made several licensed appearances in video games, including in Codemasters' \"V8 Supercars\" series in the 2000s and Turn 10 Studios' \"Forza\" series in the 2010s. From 2011 to 2014, an online championship, sanctioned by Supercars, was contested on iRacing. In 2017, Supercars launched an eSports competition using Forza Motorsport 6 and Forza Motorsport 7, which expanded to six rounds in 2018.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28598288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28598288", "title": "Sydney Carnival", "text": "Sydney Carnival\n\nThe Sydney Carnival, a.k.a. Sydney Autumn Carnival, is a major Australian Thoroughbred racing series held in Sydney in March and April each year. It consists of six weeks of racing conducted by Australian Turf Club across the city's two primary racecourses: Royal Randwick and Rosehill Gardens. The most important races include the AAMI Golden Slipper Stakes, the world's richest race for two-year-old horses, the BMW Stakes, the Rosehill Guineas, the Australian Derby, the Doncaster Handicap and the Sydney Cup. The 2015 Sydney Autumn Carnival consists of 20 Group 1 races, and offers $26.5 million in prize money.\n\nInaugurated in 2014 and dubbed \"The Grand Finals of Australian Racing\", The Championships is held on two days over the Easter Holiday period. The Championships have combined previous stand alone races such as the Doncaster Mile, The Australian Derby, the Queen Elizabeth Stakes and The Sydney Cup into two weekends of racing with nearly $10 million prize money on offer each Saturday. The 2015 Championships will be hosted at Royal Randwick, known as the home of Thoroughbred racing in Sydney. Racing days are 4 and 11 April 2015.\n\nThe Championships is attempting to attract global interest in Sydney Racing, and in 2015 six international horses will be participating. The Canterbury racetrack, after being granted federal government approval, is to be used as a quarantine training and stabling area for overseas horses.\n\nIn 2014, The Queen Elizabeth Stakes prize money was raised to $4 million, becoming the richest race of the Sydney Autumn Carnival. Another iconic race is the Doncaster Mile, which offers $3 million in prize money.\n\n"}
{"id": "46716809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46716809", "title": "TheRealDeal", "text": "TheRealDeal\n\nTheRealDeal was a darknet website and a part of the cyber-arms industry reported to be selling code and zero-day software exploits.\n\nThe creators claimed in an interview with DeepDotWeb that the site was founded in direct response to the number of dark websites which have emerged during the past few years which do not actually have anything of value to sell and are just scams. The site relied on Tor and bitcoin similar to other darknet markets but requires multi-signature transactions. There was speculation in the computer security community as to whether the site is a law enforcement sting operation due to apparent listing of exploits at many times below their potential market value.<section end=allbody />\n\nIn July 2015 the website was down for 24 hours at the same time as cyber crime forum Darkode was seized by the FBI and various members arrested in 'Operation Shrouded Horizon'. On 13 August in 2015 the site went offline for unknown reasons. On December 1 it announced its reopening on DeepDotWeb. The Real Deal was shut down on November 2016. \n"}
{"id": "46318051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46318051", "title": "The Dovekeepers", "text": "The Dovekeepers\n\nThe Dovekeepers is a two-part television adaptation based on the book of the same name by Alice Hoffman from executive producers Roma Downey and Mark Burnett. It features the Siege of Masada by troops of the Roman Empire towards the end of the First Jewish–Roman War. The program premiered in the United States on March 31, 2015 on CBS.\n\nAccording to the official trailer, \n\nTagline: The trailer featured the tagline, \"Their journey. Their passion. It all leads up to this. Take a stand.\"\n\n\nThe adaptation garnered negative reviews: Keith Uhlich of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" writes \"True to its title, this romantic-historical miniseries is more fowl than fair. CBS' two-part adaptation of Alice Hoffman's best-selling novel is a cheap, chintzy adventure.\" while Brian Lowry of \"Variety\" writes \"Designed to play as a moving adaptation of Alice Hoffman's bestseller, \"The Dovekeepers\" is more of a wounded duck.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10984546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10984546", "title": "The Island (play)", "text": "The Island (play)\n\nThe Island is a play written by Athol Fugard, John Kani, and Winston Ntshona.\n\nThe apartheid-era drama, inspired by a true story, is set in an unnamed prison clearly based on South Africa's notorious Robben Island, where Nelson Mandela was held for twenty-seven years. It focuses on two cellmates, one whose successful appeal means that his release draws near and one who must remain in prison for many years to come. They spend their days performing futile physical labor and nights rehearsing in their cell for a performance of Sophocles' \"Antigone\" in front of the other prisoners. One takes the part of Antigone, who defies the laws of the state to bury her brother, and the other takes the part of her uncle Creon, who sentences her to die for her crime of conscience. The play draws parallels between Antigone's situation and the situation of black political prisoners. Tensions arise as the performance approaches, especially when one of the prisoners learns that he has won an early release and the men's deep friendship is tested. \"The Island\" bears testament to the resiliency of the human heart.\n\nThe play has four scenes. It opens with a lengthy mimed sequence in which John and Winston, two cell mates imprisoned on Robben Island, shovel sand in the scorching heat, dumping the sand at the feet of the other man, so that the pile of sand never diminishes. This is designed to exhaust the body and the morale of the prisoners. Later scenes include a play within a play, as Winston and John perform a condensed two-person version of \"Antigone\" by Sophocles.\n\nThe play was first performed in Cape Town, at a theatre called The Space, in July 1973. In order to evade the draconian censorship in South Africa at the time (plays dealing with prison conditions, etc., were prohibited), the play premiered under the title, \"Die Hodoshe Span\". It was next staged at the Royal Court Theatre in London, with John Kani and Winston Ntshona portraying John and Winston respectively. The Broadway production, presented in repertory with \"Sizwe Banzi Is Dead\", opened on November 24, 1974 at the Edison Theatre, where it ran for 52 performances.\n\nIn an unusual move, Kani and Ntshona were named co-Tony Award nominees (and eventual co-winners) for Best Actor in a Play for both \"The Island\" and \"Sizwe Banzi Is Dead\".\n\nOver the next thirty years, Kani and Ntshona periodically performed in productions of the play. Notable among them were the Royal National Theatre in 2000 , reported at the time as their final production, although they went on to star at the Old Vic in 2002 and the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 2004 .\n\nJohn and Winston share a prison cell on an unnamed Island. After another day of hard labor and having been forced to run while shackled and then beaten, they return to their cell. They tend each other's wounds, share memories of times at the beach and rehearse for the prisoner-performed concert which is imminent. They are going to perform a scene from an abridged version of \"Antigone\" by Sophocles. John will play Creon and Winston will play Antigone.\n\nWhen he sees himself in his costume, Winston tries to pull out of playing a female role, fearing he will be humiliated. John is called to the governor's office. He returns with news that his appeal was successful and his ten-year sentence has been commuted to three years: he will be free in three months. Winston is happy for him. As they imagine what leaving prison and returning home will be like, Winston begins to unravel. He doubts why he ever made a stand against the regime, why he even exists. Having said it, he experiences a catharsis, and accepts that he must endure.\n\nThe final scene is their performance of \"Antigone\". After John-as-Creon sentences Winston-as-Antigone to be walled up in a cave for having defied him and done her duty towards her dead brother, Winston pulls off Antigone's wig and yells \"Gods of Our Fathers! My Land! My Home! Time waits no longer. I go now to my living death, because I honored those things to which honor belongs\". The final image is of John and Winston, chained together once more, running hard as the siren wails.\n\n\n\nAlthough the play is in English, Afrikaans and Xhosa words are spoken as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "479913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479913", "title": "Yahoo! GeoCities", "text": "Yahoo! GeoCities\n\nYahoo! GeoCities is a soon-to-be defunct web hosting service. It was founded in November 1994 by David Bohnett and John Rezner, and was called Beverly Hills Internet (BHI) for a very short time before being named GeoCities. On January 28, 1999, GeoCities was acquired by Yahoo!; at that time it was the third-most visited website on the World Wide Web. In its original form, site users selected a \"city\" in which to place their web pages. The \"cities\" were named after real cities or regions according to their content—for example, computer-related sites were placed in \"SiliconValley\" and those dealing with entertainment were assigned to \"Hollywood\"—hence the name of the site. Shortly after its acquisition by Yahoo!, this practice was abandoned in favor of using the Yahoo! member names in the URLs.\n\nIn April 2009, approximately ten years after Yahoo! bought GeoCities, the company announced that it would shut down the United States GeoCities service on October 26, 2009. There were at least 38 million user-built pages on GeoCities before it was shut down. The GeoCities Japan version of the service will shut down at the end of March 2019.\n\nIn 1996, GeoCities had 29 \"neighborhoods,\" which had groupings of content created by the \"homesteaders\" (GeoCities users).\nBy 1999, GeoCities had additional neighborhoods and refocused existing neighborhoods.\n\n\nIn 1999, GeoCities had an online commercial presence with GeoCities Marketplace. It included the GeoStore, which sold GeoCities-branded merchandise. Users cashed in GeoPoints in the store.\n\nPrior to the takeover by Yahoo!, GeoCities had a Japanese subsidiary, GeoCities Japan. GeoCities Japan was headquartered in the Nihonbashi Hakozaki Building in the Nihonbashi area of Chūō, Tokyo.\n\nAs of February 10, 2016, GeoCities Japan was still online, with no signs of upcoming closure. Its member sites are still accessible, and it is still accepting new account registrations, but now all services are only available in Japanese.\n\nOn October 1, 2018, Yahoo! Japan announced the closure of GeoCities Japan effective March 31, 2019.\n\nGeoCities Japan has the following neighborhoods:\n\n\nGeoCities began in mid-1995 as BHI, which stood for Beverly Hills Internet, a small Web hosting and development company in Southern California.\n\nThe company created its own Web directory, organized thematically in six \"neighborhoods\". The neighborhoods included \"Colosseum,\" \"Hollywood,\" \"RodeoDrive,\" \"SunsetStrip,\" \"WallStreet,\" and \"WestHollywood\". In mid-1995, the company decided to offer users (thereafter known as \"Homesteaders\") the ability to develop free home pages within those neighborhoods. During the sign-up process, new members chose to which neighborhood they wanted to belong. This neighborhood became part of the member's Web address along with a sequentially assigned \"street address\" number to make the URL unique (for example, <nowiki>\"www.geocities.com/RodeoDrive/number\"</nowiki>). Chat, bulletin boards, and other elements of \"community\" were added soon after, helping foster rapid growth. On July 5, 1995 GeoCities added additional cities, including \"CapitolHill,\" \"Paris,\" \"SiliconValley,\" and \"Tokyo.\" By December 1995, the company, which now had a total of 14 neighborhoods, was signing up thousands of Homesteaders a day and getting over six million monthly page views. GeoCities never enforced neighborhood specific content; for example, a \"Hollywood\" homesteader could be nothing but a college student's home page, which would be more appropriate for another neighborhood. The company decided to focus on building membership and community, and on December 15, 1995, BHI became known as GeoCities after having also been called Geopages. At that point GeoCities was headquartered at 9401 Wilshire Boulevard in Beverly Hills. By December 1996 it was headquartered on the third floor of 1918 Main Street in Santa Monica, with an office on the 8th floor of 125 Park Avenue in New York City.\n\nOver time, many companies, including Yahoo!, invested extensively in GeoCities and, with the introduction of paid premium services, the site continued to grow. In May 1997, GeoCities introduced advertisements on its pages. Despite negative reaction from users, GeoCities continued to grow. By June 1997, GeoCities was the fifth most popular site on the Web, and by October of that year the company had signed up its millionth Homesteader.\n\nIn June 1998, in an effort to increase brand awareness, GeoCities introduced a watermark to user Web pages. The watermark, much like an onscreen graphic on some television channels, was a transparent floating GIF which used JavaScript to stay on the bottom right side of the browser screen. Many users felt the watermark interfered with the design of their Web site and threatened to move their Web pages elsewhere. The implementation of the watermark preceded the widespread adoption of CSS and standardized DOM and had cross-browser issues. However, GeoCities said in a press release that feedback regarding the watermark had been overwhelmingly positive.\n\nThe company went public in August 1998, listing on the NASDAQ exchange with the code GCTY. The IPO price was $17, rising rapidly after launch to a peak of over $100. By 1999 GeoCities was the third-most visited Web site on the World Wide Web, behind AOL and Yahoo!. The headquarters had moved to 4499 Glencoe Avenue in Los Angeles, near the Marina del Rey area of Los Angeles County.\n\nIn January 1999, near the peak of the dot-com bubble, GeoCities was purchased by Yahoo! for $3.57 billion in stock, with Yahoo! taking control on May 28. The acquisition proved extremely unpopular; users began to leave \"en masse\" in protest at the new terms of service put out by Yahoo! for GeoCities. The terms stated that the company owned all rights and content, including media such as pictures. Yahoo! quickly reversed its decision. In July 1999, Yahoo! switched from neighborhoods and street address URLs for homesteaders to \"vanity\" URLs through members' sign-up names to Yahoo! (<nowiki>\"www.geocities.com/membername\"</nowiki>). This service was previously offered only as a premium.\n\nIn 2001, amid speculation by analysts that GeoCities was not yet profitable (it having declared an $8 million loss for the final quarter of 1998), Yahoo! introduced a for-fee premium hosting service at GeoCities and reduced the accessibility of free and low-price hosting accounts by limiting their data transfer rate for Web page visitors; since that time the data transfer limit for free accounts was said to be limited to 3 GB per month, but was enforced as a limit of about 4.2 MB per hour. The paid accounts were later unified in the Yahoo! Web Hosting service, with higher data transfer limits. During 2001, a rumor began that GeoCities was to close; the chain e-mail making that claim cited a \"The New York Times\" article that stated the opposite.\n\nOn April 23, 2009, Yahoo! announced that it would be closing its United States branch of GeoCities, and stopped accepting new registrations, though the existing GeoCities accounts remained active. In late June 2009, Yahoo! updated the GeoCities home page to indicate: \"GeoCities is closing on October 26, 2009.\" GeoCities joined a long list of other services discontinued by Yahoo, such as Farechase, LAUNCHcast, My Web, Audio Search, Pets, Live, Kickstart, Briefcase, Webmessenger, and Teachers.\n\nWith the closure of GeoCities in the U.S., Yahoo! no longer offers free Web page hosting except in Japan. Yahoo! encouraged users to upgrade their accounts to the fee-based Yahoo! Web Hosting service.\n\nRupert Goodwins, the editor of \"ZDNet\", perceived the closure of GeoCities as an end of an era; he described GeoCities as \"the first proof that you could have something really popular and still not make any money on the internet.\" Vijay Mukhi, an internet and cyber security expert quoted in the \"Business Standard\", criticized Yahoo's handling of GeoCities; Mukhi described GeoCities as \"a lost opportunity for Yahoo! They could have made it a Facebook if they wanted.\" Rich Skrenta, the CEO of Blekko, posted on Twitter an offer to take over GeoCities from Yahoo! in exchange for 50% future revenue share.\n\nIn response to the closure, rival Web hosting services began to compete for the websites leaving GeoCities. For instance, German Web host Jimdo started the \"Lifeboat for GeoCities\" service to encourage GeoCities users to put their Web sites on Jimdo. \"Geocities-closing.com\", started by GeoCities competitor uCoz, is a similar project launched to save GeoCities websites.\n\nMany of the pages formerly hosted by GeoCities remained accessible, but could not be updated, until 2014. Attempts to access any page using the original GeoCities URL now forward to Yahoo! Small Business.\n\nShortly after the GeoCities closing announcement, the Internet Archive announced a project to archive GeoCities pages, stating \"GeoCities has been an important outlet for personal expression on the Web for almost 15 years.\" Internet Archive made it their task to ensure the thoroughness and completeness of their archive of GeoCities sites. The website InternetArchaeology.org also archived and is showcasing artifacts from GeoCities. The operators of the website Reocities downloaded as much of the content hosted on GeoCities as they could before it shut down, in an attempt to create a mirror of GeoCities, albeit an incomplete one.\n\nAnother site which is attempting to build an archive of defunct GeoCities websites is GeoCities.ws. There is no formal relationship between GeoCities and geocities.ws, as it is a completely different company. Many sites were automatically duplicated from GeoCities to geocities.ws many months after the closure of GeoCities. Geocities.ws also promised free hosting, and for 8 years this has been the case, . Other sites with this purpose are Geociti.es(closed 2011), WebCite, and Oocities.org.\n\nOn the first anniversary of GeoCities' closing, Archive Team announced that they would release a torrent file archive of 641 GB (prior to 7z compression, it was approximately 900 GB of data), and did so on October 29, 2010. On April 9, 2011, Archive Team released a patch for the first GeoCities torrent.\n\nThe domain \"geocities.com\" attracted at least 177 million visitors annually by 2008 according to a Compete.com study.\n\nComScore stated that the GeoCities had 18.9 million unique visitors from the U.S. in March 2006. In March 2008 GeoCities had 15.1 million unique U.S. visitors. In March 2009 GeoCities had 11.5 million unique visitors, a 24% decline from March 2008.\n\nIn 1999, a complaint was instituted against GeoCities stating that the corporation violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act under , which states in relevant part, \"Unfair methods of competition in or affecting commerce, and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce, are hereby declared unlawful.\" The FTC found that GeoCities was engaged in deceptive acts and practices in contravention to their stated privacy act. Subsequently, a consent order was entered into which prohibits GeoCities from misrepresenting the purpose for which it collects and/or uses personal identifying information from consumers. A copy of the complaint and order can be found at 127 F.T.C. 94 (page 94).\n\nThe litigation came about in this way: GeoCities provided free home pages and e-mail address to children and adults who provided personally identifying and demographic information when they registered for the Web site. At the time of the complaint, GeoCities had more than 1.8 million members who were \"homesteaders.\" GeoCities illegally permitted third-party advertisers to promote products targeted to GeoCities' 1.8 million users, by using personally identifiable information obtained in the registration process. These acts and practices affected \"commerce\" as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission.\n\nThe problem GeoCities faced was that it placed a privacy statement on its New Member Application Form and on its Web site promising that it would never give personally identifying information to anyone without the user's permission. GeoCities sold personal information to third parties who used the information for purposes other than those for which members gave permission.\n\nIt was ordered that GeoCities would not make any misrepresentation, in any manner about its collection or use of personal identifying information, including what information will be disclosed to third parties. GeoCities was not allowed to collect personal identifying information from any child if GeoCities had actual knowledge that the child did not have his parents' permission to provide the information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24392391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24392391", "title": "Yubari International Fantastic Film Festival", "text": "Yubari International Fantastic Film Festival\n\nThe , also sometimes called YIFFF, is held in a resort-like environment in the small town of Yūbari on the northernmost Japanese island of Hokkaidō. From 1990 to 1999, the festival was known as the Yubari International Fantastic Adventure Film Festival.\n\nIn 1990, the last coal mine in the Hokkaidō mining town of Yūbari having closed, the city leaders were looking for a way to revitalize the local economy. This was the beginning of the Yubari International Fantastic Film Festival. The festival was divided into two main programs, a prestigious international competition for young directors, and an Off Theatre program for mostly Japanese amateur, independent and first-time directors. The first year in 1990 had as a special guest, actor Jon Voight and his daughter, a young starlet named Angelina Jolie. In 1993, Quentin Tarantino was at the festival and wrote part of the screenplay for \"Pulp Fiction\" in his hotel room. Some years later, he paid homage to the town in the name of a character in \"\", \"Gogo Yubari\". In 1996 the festival also had special guest stars, comedians Steve Martin and Martin Short. In 2004 the festival drew a record audience of 27,000.\n\nThe festival had always been sponsored financially by the city of Yubari but the town filed for bankruptcy in 2007 and that year's festival had to be cancelled. However, the people of Yubari with the assistance of a number of sponsors were able to group together to revive the festival in 2008. The international competition section of the festival had to be dropped but the Off Theatre program for young Japanese directors was retained with the Grand Prize bringing 2 million yen (about $20,000) to the winner. The new Governor's Award was presented by the Governor of Hokkaidō. In addition to the competition section, the festival continued to screen a number of international films by promising directors. One of the sponsors for the festival is the giant Japanese satellite broadcasting company SKYPerfecTV! which has also broadcast parts of the program. The scaled down 2008 festival drew more than 8800 fans and attendance increased to over 10,500 in 2009.\n\nAward information from:\n\nHeld February 14–18, 1990.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 15–19, 1991.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 14–18, 1992.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 19–23, 1993.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 18–22, 1994.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 17–21, 1995.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 18–20, 1996.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 14–18, 1997.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 13–17, 1998.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 19–23, 1999.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 18–22, 2000.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 15–19, 2001.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 14–18, 2002.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 13–17, 2003.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 19–23, 2004.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 24–28, 2005.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 23–27, 2006.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nNo awards - festival cancelled.\n\nHeld March 19–23, 2008.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 26-March 2, 2009.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 25-March 1, 2010.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 24–28, 2011.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 23–27, 2012 with a total attendance at 12,500.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nHeld February 21–25, 2013. Attendance was about 12,500.\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nAnnounced March 2, 2014\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\nAnnounced on February 24, 2015\n\nOFF THEATRE COMPETITION\n\n"}
