{"id": "24245696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24245696", "title": "A Dissertation Concerning the End for Which God Created the World", "text": "A Dissertation Concerning the End for Which God Created the World\n\nA Dissertation Concerning the End for Which God Created the World is a work by Christian theologian, reformer, author, and pastor Jonathan Edwards that was started in the mid-1750s but not finally published until after his death in 1765.\n\nThis dissertation was published concurrently with \"The Nature of True Virtue\", and the two works have much in common, specifically the assertion that God's aim in creating the world was not human happiness but his own glory.\n\nEdwards argues against the people of his day that claimed that human happiness was the end for which God created the world. Edwards instead puts forth the idea that the reason for God's creation of the world was not human happiness, but the magnification of his own glory and name. Edwards then continues to argue that since true happiness comes from God alone, human happiness is an extension of God's glory, and that there are \"ultimate\" ends and \"chief\" ends, but they all end at the same conclusion. Edwards, like in \"Virtue\", discusses how there is no true happiness without being happy in God.\n\nModern day evangelicals such as John Piper still use Edwards' works today in their own congregations. In his book \"God's Passion for His Glory\", which includes the complete text of \"The End for Which God Created the World\" as the second half of the book, Piper argues that the longer he lives \"the more clearly I see my dependence on those who have gone before,\" that \"Edwards's relentless God-centeredness and devotion to the Biblical contours of doctrine are profoundly needed in our day,\" and that Edwards is in \"a class by himself in American history, perhaps in the history of Christendom.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40879145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40879145", "title": "Abdurrahman Bahir Efendi (Arabzade)", "text": "Abdurrahman Bahir Efendi (Arabzade)\n\nAbdurrahman Bahir Efendi was a composer of vocal and instrumental Turkish classical music. Bahir Efendi rose to prominence during the reign of Ahmet III.\n\n"}
{"id": "68545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68545", "title": "Abijah of Judah", "text": "Abijah of Judah\n\nAbijam was, according to the Hebrew Bible, the fourth king of the House of David and the second of the Kingdom of Judah. He was the son of Rehoboam and the grandson of Solomon. The Chronicler refers to him as Abijah.\n\nAbijam is reported in the books of Kings and Chronicles as being related to Maacah, Micaiah, and King Asa of Judah. Scholars have found the biblical accounts of Abijam's family to be contradictory. While a number of theories have been suggested, no explanation can accommodate all available sources or has proved definitively compelling. Abijah married fourteen wives, and had 22 sons and 16 daughters.\n\nFollowing the death of Rehoboam, his son Abijah succeeded the throne as King of Judah. He began his three-year reign (2 Chr. 12:16; 13:1, 2) with a strenuous but unsuccessful effort to bring back the ten tribes of the northern Kingdom of Israel to their allegiance.\n\nFollowing Abijah's ascension to the throne in the 18th year of King Jeroboam I of Israel, he marched north with the purpose of winning Israel back to the Davidic kingdom. Jeroboam surrounded Abijah's army, engaging in the battle of Mount Zemaraim. Abijah captured the Israelite cities of Jeshanah, Ephron (\"et-Taiyibeh\") and Bethel.\n\nAccording to the Deuteronomist, \"God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem by raising up a son to succeed him\" (1 Kings 15:4). The wording in the Septuagint is \"the Lord gave him a remnant\". Thus the unconditional covenant blessing of Yahweh guaranteed his promise to King David, to stabilize the Kingdom of David despite its ruler. The Chronicler also emphasizes Yahweh's promise as seen by Abijah's success against every effort by Jeroboam to defeat him. \"Judah prevailed because they relied upon the Lord God of their fathers.\" (2 Chr. 13:18) God gave the Kingdom to David and his descendants (1 Chr. 17:14) by a covenant of salt, meaning, of permanence (cf. Leviticus 2:13).\n\nAccording to , Abijah became king of Judah in the 18th year of the reign of Jeroboam, and reigned for three years.\n\nWilliam F. Albright has dated his reign to 915–913 BCE.\n\nE. R. Thiele offers the dates 914/913 – 911/910 BCE. As explained in the Rehoboam article, Thiele's chronology for the first kings of Judah contained an internal inconsistency that later scholars corrected by dating these kings one year earlier, so that Abijah's dates are taken as 915/914 to 912/911 BCE in the present article.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1970691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1970691", "title": "Aptamer", "text": "Aptamer\n\nAptamers (from the Latin \"aptus\" – fit, and Greek \"meros\" – part) are oligonucleotide or peptide molecules that bind to a specific target molecule. Aptamers are usually created by selecting them from a large random sequence pool, but natural aptamers also exist in riboswitches. Aptamers can be used for both basic research and clinical purposes as macromolecular drugs. Aptamers can be combined with ribozymes to self-cleave in the presence of their target molecule. These compound molecules have additional research, industrial and clinical applications.\n\nMore specifically, aptamers can be classified as\n\n\nNucleic acid aptamers are nucleic acid species that have been engineered through repeated rounds of \"in vitro selection\" or equivalently, SELEX (systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment) to bind to various molecular targets such as small molecules, proteins, nucleic acids, and even cells, tissues and organisms. In the molecular level, aptamers bind to its target site through non-covalent interactions. Aptamers bind to these specific targets because of electrostatic interactions, hydrophobic interactions, and their complementary shapes. Aptamers are useful in biotechnological and therapeutic applications as they offer molecular recognition properties that rival that of the commonly used biomolecule, antibodies. In addition to their discriminate recognition, aptamers offer advantages over antibodies as they can be engineered completely in a test tube, are readily produced by chemical synthesis, possess desirable storage properties, and elicit little or no immunogenicity in therapeutic applications.\n\nIn 1990, two labs independently developed the technique of selection: the Gold lab, using the term SELEX for their process of selecting RNA ligands against T4 DNA polymerase; and the Szostak lab, coining the term \"in vitro selection\", selecting RNA ligands against various organic dyes. The Szostak lab also coined the term aptamer (from the Latin, \"apto\", meaning 'to fit') for these nucleic acid-based ligands. Two years later, the Szostak lab and Gilead Sciences, independent of one another, used \"in vitro selection\" schemes to evolve single stranded DNA ligands for organic dyes and human coagulant, thrombin (see anti-thrombin aptamers), respectively. There does not appear to be any systematic differences between RNA and DNA aptamers, save the greater intrinsic chemical stability of DNA.\n\nThe notion of selection \"in vitro\" was preceded twenty-plus years prior when Sol Spiegelman used a Qbeta replication system as a way to evolve a self-replicating molecule. In addition, a year before the publishing of \"in vitro selection\" and SELEX, Gerald Joyce used a system that he termed 'directed evolution' to alter the cleavage activity of a ribozyme.\n\nSince the discovery of aptamers, many researchers have used aptamer selection as a means for application and discovery. In 2001, the process of \"in vitro selection\" was automated by J. Colin Cox in the Ellington lab at the University of Texas at Austin, reducing the duration of a selection experiment from six weeks to three days.\n\nWhile the process of artificial engineering of nucleic acid ligands is highly interesting to biology and biotechnology, the notion of aptamers in the natural world had yet to be uncovered until 2002 when two groups led by Ronald Breaker and Evgeny Nudler discovered a nucleic acid-based genetic regulatory element (which was named riboswitch) that possesses similar molecular recognition properties to the artificially made aptamers. In addition to the discovery of a new mode of genetic regulation, this adds further credence to the notion of an 'RNA World', a postulated stage in time in the origins of life on Earth.\n\nBoth DNA and RNA aptamers show robust binding affinities for various targets. DNA and RNA aptamers have been selected for the same target. These targets include lysozyme, thrombin, human immunodeficiency virus trans-acting responsive element (HIV TAR), hemin, interferon γ, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), prostate specific antigen (PSA), dopamine, and the non-classical oncogene, heat shock factor 1 (HSF1). In the case of lysozyme, HIV TAR, VEGF and dopamine the DNA aptamer is the analog of the RNA aptamer, with thymine replacing uracil. The hemin, thrombin, and interferon γ, DNA and RNA aptamers were selected through independent selections and have unique sequences. Considering that not all DNA analogs of RNA aptamers show functionality, the correlation between DNA and RNA sequence and their structure and function requires further investigation.\n\nLately, a concept of smart aptamers, and smart ligands in general, has been introduced. It describes aptamers that are selected with pre-defined equilibrium (formula_1), rate (formula_2, formula_3) constants and thermodynamic (ΔH, ΔS) parameters of aptamer-target interaction. Kinetic capillary electrophoresis is the technology used for the selection of smart aptamers. It obtains aptamers in a few rounds of selection.\n\nRecent developments in aptamer-based therapeutics have been rewarded in the form of the first aptamer-based drug approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in treatment for age-related macular degeneration (AMD), called Macugen offered by OSI Pharmaceuticals. In addition, the company NeoVentures Biotechnology Inc. has successfully commercialized the first aptamer based diagnostic platform for analysis of mycotoxins in grain. Many contract companies develop aptamers and aptabodies to replace antibodies in research, diagnostic platforms, drug discovery, and therapeutics.\n\nNon-modified aptamers are cleared rapidly from the bloodstream, with a half-life of minutes to hours, mainly due to nuclease degradation and clearance from the body by the kidneys, a result of the aptamer's inherently low molecular weight. Unmodified aptamer applications currently focus on treating transient conditions such as blood clotting, or treating organs such as the eye where local delivery is possible. This rapid clearance can be an advantage in applications such as \"in vivo\" diagnostic imaging. An example is a tenascin-binding aptamer under development by Schering AG for cancer imaging. Several modifications, such as 2'-fluorine-substituted pyrimidines, polyethylene glycol (PEG) linkage, etc. (both of which are used in Macugen, an FDA-approved aptamer) are available to scientists with which to increase the serum half-life of aptamers easily to the day or even week time scale.\n\nAnother approach to increase the nuclease resistance of aptamers is to develop Spiegelmers, which are composed entirely of an unnatural L-ribonucleic acid backbone. A Spiegelmer of the same sequence has the same binding properties of the corresponding RNA aptamer, except it binds to the mirror image of its target molecule.\n\nIn addition to the development of aptamer-based therapeutics, many researchers such as the Ellington lab have been developing diagnostic techniques for aptamer based plasma protein profiling called aptamer plasma proteomics. This technology will enable future multi-biomarker protein measurements that can aid diagnostic distinction of disease versus healthy states.\n\nFurthermore, the Hirao lab applied a genetic alphabet expansion using an unnatural base pair to SELEX and achieved the generation of high affinity DNA aptamers. Only few hydrophobic unnatural base as a fifth base significantly augment the aptamer affinity to target proteins.\n\nAs a resource for all \"in vitro selection\" and SELEX experiments, the Ellington lab has developed the Aptamer Database cataloging all published experiments.\n\nPeptide aptamers are artificial proteins selected or engineered to bind specific target molecules. These proteins consist of one or more peptide loops of variable sequence displayed by a protein scaffold. They are typically isolated from combinatorial libraries and often subsequently improved by directed mutation or rounds of variable region mutagenesis and selection. \"In vivo\", peptide aptamers can bind cellular protein targets and exert biological effects, including interference with the normal protein interactions of their targeted molecules with other proteins. Libraries of peptide aptamers have been used as \"mutagens\", in studies in which an investigator introduces a library that expresses different peptide aptamers into a cell population, selects for a desired phenotype, and identifies those aptamers that cause the phenotype. The investigator then uses those aptamers as baits, for example in yeast two-hybrid screens to identify the cellular proteins targeted by those aptamers. Such experiments identify particular proteins bound by the aptamers, and protein interactions that the aptamers disrupt, to cause the phenotype. In addition, peptide aptamers derivatized with appropriate functional moieties can cause specific postranslational modification of their target proteins, or change the subcellular localization of the targets.\n\nPeptide aptamers can also recognize targets \"in vitro\". They have found use in lieu of antibodies in biosensors and used to detect active isoforms of proteins from populations containing both inactive and active protein forms. Derivatives known as tadpoles, in which peptide aptamer \"heads\" are covalently linked to unique sequence double-stranded DNA \"tails\", allow quantification of scarce target molecules in mixtures by PCR (using, for example, the quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction) of their DNA tails.\n\nThe peptides that form the aptamer variable regions are synthesized as part of the same polypeptide chain as the scaffold and are constrained at their N and C termini by linkage to it. This double structural constraint decreases the diversity of the conformations that the variable regions can adopt, and this reduction in conformational diversity lowers the entropic cost of molecular binding when interaction with the target causes the variable regions to adopt a single conformation. As a consequence, peptide aptamers can bind their targets tightly, with binding affinities comparable to those shown by antibodies (nanomolar range).\n\nPeptide aptamer scaffolds are typically small, ordered, soluble proteins. The first scaffold, which is still widely used, is Escherichia coli thioredoxin, the \"trxA\" gene product (TrxA). In these molecules, a single peptide of variable sequence is displayed instead of the Gly-Pro motif in the TrxA -Cys-Gly-Pro-Cys- active site loop. Improvements to TrxA include substitution of serines for the flanking cysteines, which prevents possible formation of a disulfide bond at the base of the loop, introduction of a D26A substitution to reduce oligomerization, and optimization of codons for expression in human cells. Reviews in 2015 have reported studies using 12 and 20 other scaffolds.\n\nPeptide aptamer selection can be made using different systems, but the most used is currently the yeast two-hybrid system. Peptide aptamers can also be selected from combinatorial peptide libraries constructed by phage display and other surface display technologies such as mRNA display, ribosome display, bacterial display and yeast display. These experimental procedures are also known as biopannings. Among peptides obtained from biopannings, mimotopes can be considered as a kind of peptide aptamers. All the peptides panned from combinatorial peptide libraries have been stored in a special database with the name MimoDB.\n\nSelection of Ligand Regulated Peptide Aptamers (LiRPAs) has been demonstrated. By displaying 7 amino acid peptides from a novel scaffold protein based on the trimeric FKBP-rapamycin-FRB structure, interaction between the randomized peptide and target molecule can be controlled by the small molecule Rapamycin or non-immunosuppressive analogs.\n\nThe Affimer protein, an evolution of peptide aptamers, is a small, highly stable protein engineered to display peptide loops which provides a high affinity binding surface for a specific target protein. It is a protein of low molecular weight, 12–14 kDa, derived from the cysteine protease inhibitor family of cystatins.\n\nThe Affimer scaffold is a stable protein based on the cystatin protein fold. It displays two peptide loops and an N-terminal sequence that can be randomised to bind different target proteins with high affinity and specificity similar to antibodies. Stabilisation of the peptide upon the protein scaffold constrains the possible conformations which the peptide may take, thus increasing the binding affinity and specificity compared to libraries of free peptides.\n\nThe Affimer protein scaffold was developed initially at the MRC Cancer Cell Unit in Cambridge then across two laboratories at the University of Leeds. Affimer technology has been commercialised and developed by Avacta Life Sciences, who are developing it as reagents for research and therapeutic applications.\n\nAptaBiD or Aptamer-Facilitated Biomarker Discovery is a technology for biomarker discovery. AptaBiD is based on multi-round generation of an aptamer or a pool of aptamers for differential molecular targets on the cells which facilitates exponential detection of biomarkers. It involves three major stages: (i) differential multi-round selection of aptamers for biomarker of target cells; (ii) aptamer-based isolation of biomarkers from target cells; and (iii) mass spectrometry identification of biomarkers. The important feature of the AptaBiD technology is that it produces synthetic affinity probes (aptamers) simultaneously with biomarker discovery. In AptaBiD, aptamers are developed for cell surface biomarkers in their native state and conformation. In addition to facilitating biomarker identification, such aptamers can be directly used for cell isolation, cell visualization, and tracking cells \"in vivo\". They can also be used to modulate activities of cell receptors and deliver different agents (e.g., siRNA and drugs) into the cells.\n\nAptamers can be used in:\n\nAptamers have an innate ability to bind to any molecule they're targeted at, including cancer cells and bacteria. Bound to a target, aptamers inhibit its activity. Aptamers suffer from two issues that limit their effectiveness. Firstly, the bonds they form with target molecules are usually too weak to be effective, and second, they're easily digested by enzymes.\n\nAdding an unnatural base to a standard aptamer can increase its ability bind to target molecules. A second addition in the form of a \"mini hairpin DNA\" gives the aptamer a stable and compact structure that is resistant to digestion, extending its life from hours to days.\n\nAptamers are less likely to provoke undesirable immune responses than antibodies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1566401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1566401", "title": "Babyz", "text": "Babyz\n\nBabyz is a computer game in which one can play with and take care of a group of babies who live in a virtual house on the computer. The game was released in 1999 by The Learning Company, developed by members of PF Magic working there at the time.\n\nBabyz runs on top of the Petz 3 game engine, adding additional AI and voice recognition. For example, players can teach their Babyz baby talk, how to play with objects, and how to walk. Babyz can also form relationships with other babyz that can result in sibling rivalries or friendships.\n\nWhen Babyz was first released in 1999, there were 15 babyz you could adopt and care for, as well as various toys that babyz could interact with. There were also many different rooms to explore and a number of different clothing items. Babyz reused some of the Petz toyz and had a similar home setting for its playscenes. Most of the game's original content can be downloaded and accessed by anyone via user-websites. Users have created ways to make the game playable with Windows XP and create custom content that users can use with their Babyz, as well as unofficial adoption centers and pages.\n\nA Babyz Community started on the official site, which has since been shut down. The website offered adoptions and discussions. Soon after, people started forming their own forums and babyz websites with similar content. \"Pageants\" are where people enter pictures of their babyz posing and earning awards. In 2003, The Babyz Community Rating System, loosely based on the Petz Community rankings, was created which allows people to register three or four of their babyz, and gain points whenever they win in a pageant.\n\nAround the same time, fan websites were going up, it was discovered that one could hex edit the babyz to introduce new hairstyles, eye colours, etc. These edited babyz (\"hexies\" or \"hexed babyz\") and custom clothes were often available on fan websites and unique babyz became highly preferred over the simple ones that the game first came with. Many fans tried to petition the game's creators for a Babyz 2, similar to the five sequels that were created for the Petz franchise, however nothing ever came of this. Today, user activity has continued to the point where many users testify that the dedicated hexers and custom content creators have banded together to essentially create their own \"Babyz 2,\" despite the discontinued support from the original creators.\n\nBabyz was originally made for the Windows 95/98 Platform, however with the creation of a patch by Nicholas Sherlock, the game can now be played in Windows XP, Vista, and Windows 7; both 32-bit and 64-bit versions. Sherlock's patch, called \"Petz A\" as it was intended for both Petz and Babyz, also made the game run much smoother, with the ability to change the game speed, save babyz' pictures in a different format, and also control many aspects of the game that users originally could not. It also introduced sliders to view and change the levels of the babyz' hunger, energy, sickness, and age. The Petz A patch can be found at Sherlock's website.\n\nAlthough not produced any longer, Babyz can still be found at various online retail sites including DirtCheapSoftware.com, Babyz.com, and through various Amazon and eBay sellers. Most of these places offer information and limited support on applying the patch for newer versions of Microsoft Windows.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1295239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1295239", "title": "Brain dump", "text": "Brain dump\n\nThe phrase brain dump refers to these things:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23658402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23658402", "title": "CIA Kennedy assassination conspiracy theory", "text": "CIA Kennedy assassination conspiracy theory\n\nThe CIA Kennedy assassination theory is a prominent John F. Kennedy assassination conspiracy theory. According to ABC News, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is represented in nearly every theory that involves American conspirators. The secretive nature of the CIA and the conjecture surrounding high-profile political assassinations in the United States during the 1960s, has made the CIA a plausible suspect for some who believe in a conspiracy. Conspiracy theorists have ascribed various motives for CIA involvement in the assassination of President Kennedy, including Kennedy's refusal to provide air support to the Bay of Pigs invasion, his plan to cut the agency's budget by 20 percent, and the belief that he was weak on Communism.\n\nJohn F. Kennedy, the 35th President of the United States, was assassinated in Dallas, Texas, on November 22, 1963. Various agencies and government panels have investigated the assassination at length, drawing different conclusions. Lee Harvey Oswald is accepted by official investigations as the assassin, but he was murdered by Jack Ruby before he could be tried in a court of law. The discrepancies between the official investigations and the extraordinary nature of the assassination have led to a variety of theories about how and why Kennedy was assassinated. \nThe House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) concluded in 1979 that Oswald assassinated Kennedy, but that a conspiracy was probable. The committee did not implicate U.S. Intelligence agencies. Their conclusion was reached almost entirely because of the results of forensic analysis of a police dictabelt, which supposedly recorded the sound of a fourth bullet being fired in Dealey Plaza.\n\nOn March 1, 1967, businessman Clay Shaw, head of the International Trade Mart in New Orleans, was arrested and charged with conspiring to assassinate President John F. Kennedy by New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison. Three days later on March 4, the Italian left-wing newspaper \"Paese Sera\" published a story alleging that Shaw was linked to the CIA through his involvement in the Centro Mondiale Commerciale, a subsidiary of Permindex in which Shaw was a board member. According to \"Paese Sera\", the CMC had been a front organization developed by the CIA for transferring funds to Italy for \"illegal political-espionage activities\" and had attempted to depose French President Charles de Gaulle in the early 1960s. On March 6, the newspaper printed other allegations about individuals it said were connected to Permindex, including Louis Bloomfield whom it described as \"an American agent who now plays the role of a businessman from Canada [who] established secret ties in Rome with Deputies of the Christian Democrats and neo-Fascist parties.\" The allegations were retold in various newspapers associated with the Communist parties in Italy (\"l'Unità\"), France (\"L'Humanité\"), and the Soviet Union (\"Pravda\"), as well as leftist papers in Canada and Greece, prior to reaching the American press eight weeks later. American journalist Max Holland said that \"Paese Sera\"'s allegations connecting Shaw to the CIA were what led to Garrison to implicate the CIA in a conspiracy to assassinate Kennedy.\n\nJim Garrison said anti-Communist and anti-Castro extremists in the CIA plotted the assassination of Kennedy to maintain tension with the Soviet Union and Cuba, and to prevent a United States withdrawal from Vietnam. James Douglass wrote in \"JFK and the Unspeakable\" that the CIA, acting upon the orders of conspirators with the \"military industrial complex\", killed Kennedy and in the process set up Lee Harvey Oswald as a patsy. Like Garrison, Douglass stated that Kennedy was killed because he was turning away from the Cold War and pursuing paths of nuclear disarmament, rapprochement with Fidel Castro, and withdrawal from the war in Vietnam. Mark Lane—author of \"Rush to Judgment\" and \"Plausible Denial\" and the attorney who defended Liberty Lobby against a defamation suit brought by former CIA agent E. Howard Hunt—has been described as a leading proponent of the theory that the CIA was responsible for the assassination of Kennedy. Others who believe the CIA was involved include authors Anthony Summers and John M. Newman.\n\nIn 1977, the FBI released 40,000 files pertaining to the assassination of Kennedy, including an April 3, 1967 memorandum from Deputy Director Cartha DeLoach to Associate Director Clyde Tolson that was written less than a month after President Johnson learned from J. Edgar Hoover about CIA plots to kill Fidel Castro. According to DeLoach, LBJ aide Marvin Watson \"stated that the President had told him, in an off moment, that he was now convinced there was a plot in connection with the assassination [of President Kennedy]. Watson stated the President felt that [the] CIA had had something to do with this plot.\" When questioned in 1975, during the Church Committee hearings, DeLoach told Senator Richard Schweiker that he \"felt [that Watson's statement was] sheer speculation.\"\n\nGaeton Fonzi was hired as a researcher in 1975 by the Church Committee and by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Assassinations in 1977. At the HSCA, Fonzi focused on the anti-Castro Cuban exile groups, and the links that these groups had with the CIA and the Mafia. Fonzi obtained testimony from Cuban exile Antonio Veciana that Veciana had once witnessed his CIA contact, who Fonzi would later come to believe was David Atlee Phillips, conferring with Lee Harvey Oswald. Through his research, Fonzi became convinced that Phillips had played a key role in the assassination of President Kennedy. Fonzi also concluded that, as part of the assassination plot, Phillips had actively worked to embellish Oswald's image as a communist sympathizer. He further concluded that the presence of a possible Oswald impersonator in Mexico City, during the period that Oswald himself was in Mexico City, may have been orchestrated by Phillips\n\nThis evidence first surfaced in testimony given to the HSCA in 1978, and through the investigative work of independent journalist Anthony Summers in 1979. Summers spoke with a man named Oscar Contreras who said that he met a man calling himself Lee Harvey Oswald, in Mexico City, in the fall of 1963. Contreras described \"Oswald\" as \"maybe thirty-five years old, light-haired and fairly short\" — a description that did not fit the real Oswald. To Fonzi, it seemed too great a coincidence that Oswald would at random strike up a conversation regarding his difficulties in obtaining a Cuban visa with Contreras, a man who belonged to a pro-Castro student group and had contacts in the Cuban embassy in Mexico City. Fonzi's belief in a \"\"second Oswald\" directed by Phillips\" was strengthened by statements from other witnesses. On September 27, 1963, and again a week later, a man identifying himself as Oswald visited the Cuban embassy in Mexico City. Consular Eusebio Azcue testified to the HSCA that the real Oswald \"in no way resembled\" the \"Oswald\" to whom he had spoken to at length. Embassy employee Sylvia Duran also told Anthony Summers that the real Oswald she eventually saw on film \"is not like the man I saw here in Mexico City.\" On October 1, 1963, the CIA issued a teletype to the FBI, the State Department and the Navy, regarding Oswald's visits to Mexico City. The teletype was accompanied by a photo of a man identified as Oswald who in fact looked nothing like him. Also on October 1, the CIA recorded two tapped telephone calls to the Soviet embassy by a man identified as Oswald. The CIA transcriber noted that \"Oswald\" spoke in \"broken Russian\". The real Oswald was quite fluent in Russian. On November 23, 1963, the day after the assassination, FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover's preliminary analysis of the assassination included the following:\n\nThe Central Intelligence Agency advised that on October 1st, 1963, an extremely sensitive source had reported that an individual identifying himself as Lee Oswald contacted the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City inquiring at to any messages. Special agents of this Bureau, who have conversed with Oswald in Dallas, Texas, have observed photographs of the individual referred to above and have listened to a recording of his voice. These special agents are of the opinion that the referred-to individual was not Lee Harvey Oswald.\n\nThat same day, Hoover had this conversation with President Johnson:\n\nFonzi concluded it was unlikely that the CIA would legitimately not be able to produce a single photograph of the real Oswald as part of the documentation of his trip to Mexico City, given that Oswald had made five separate visits to the Soviet and Cuban embassies where the CIA maintained surveillance cameras.\n\nThe \"three tramps\" are three men photographed by several Dallas-area newspapers under police escort near the Texas School Book Depository shortly after the assassination of President Kennedy. The men were detained and questioned briefly by the Dallas police. They have been the subject of various conspiracy theories, including some that allege the three men to be known CIA agents. Some of these allegations are listed below.\n\nE. Howard Hunt is alleged by some to be the oldest of the tramps. Hunt was a CIA station chief in Mexico City and was involved in the Bay of Pigs Invasion. Hunt later worked as one of President Richard Nixon's White House Plumbers. Others believe that the oldest tramp is Chauncey Holt. Holt claimed to have been a double agent for the CIA and the Mafia, and claimed that his assignment in Dallas was to provide fake Secret Service credentials to people in the vicinity. Witness reports state that there were one or more unidentified men in the area claiming to be Secret Service agents.\n\nFrank Sturgis is thought by some to be the tall tramp. Like E. Howard Hunt, Sturgis was involved both in the Bay of Pigs invasion and in the Watergate burglary. In 1959, Sturgis became involved with Marita Lorenz. Lorenz would later claim that Sturgis told her that he had participated in a JFK assassination plot. In response to her allegations, Sturgis denied being involved in a conspiracy to kill Kennedy. In an interview with Steve Dunleavy of the \"New York Post\", Sturgis said that he believed communist agents had pressured Lorenz into making the accusations against him.\n\nThe House Select Committee on Assassinations had forensic anthropologists study the photographic evidence. The committee claimed that its analysis ruled out E. Howard Hunt, Frank Sturgis, Dan Carswell, Fred Lee Chapman, and other suspects. The Rockefeller Commission concluded that neither Hunt nor Frank Sturgis were in Dallas on the day of the assassination.\n\nRecords released by the Dallas Police Department in 1989 identified the three men as Gus Abrams, Harold Doyle, and John Gedney.\n\nSeveral conspiracy theorists have named former CIA agent and Watergate figure E. Howard Hunt as a possible participant in the Kennedy assassination and some, as noted before, have alleged that Hunt is one of the three tramps. Hunt has taken various magazines to court over accusations with regard to the assassination.\n\nIn 1975, Hunt testified before the United States President's Commission on CIA activities within the United States that he was in Washington, D.C. on the day of the assassination. This testimony was confirmed by Hunt's family and a home employee of the Hunts.\n\nIn 1976, a magazine called \"The Spotlight\" ran an article accusing Hunt of being in Dallas on November 22, 1963, and of having a role in the assassination. Hunt won a libel judgment against the magazine in 1981, but this verdict was overturned on appeal. The magazine was found not liable when the case was retried in 1985. In 1985, Hunt was in court again in a libel suit against \"Liberty Lobby\". During the trial, defense attorney Mark Lane was successful in creating doubt among the jury as to Hunt's location on the day of the Kennedy assassination through depositions from David Atlee Phillips, Richard Helms, G. Gordon Liddy, Stansfield Turner, and Marita Lorenz, as well as through his cross examination of Hunt.\n\nIn August 2003, while in failing health, Hunt allegedly confessed to his son of his knowledge of a conspiracy in the JFK assassination. However, Hunt's health improved and he went on to live four more years. Shortly before Hunt's death in 2007, he authored an autobiography which implicated Lyndon B. Johnson in the assassination, suggesting that Johnson had orchestrated the killing with the help of CIA agents who had been angered by Kennedy's actions as President. After Hunt's death, his sons, Saint John Hunt and David Hunt, stated that their father had recorded several claims about himself and others being involved in a conspiracy to assassinate President John F. Kennedy. In the April 5, 2007 issue of \"Rolling Stone\", Saint John Hunt detailed a number of individuals purported to be implicated by his father, including Lyndon B. Johnson, Cord Meyer, David Phillips, Frank Sturgis, David Morales, Antonio Veciana, William Harvey, and an assassin he termed \"French gunman grassy knoll\" who some presume was Lucien Sarti. The two sons alleged that their father cut the information from his memoirs to avoid possible perjury charges. According to Hunt's widow and other children, the two sons took advantage of Hunt's loss of lucidity by coaching and exploiting him for financial gain. The \"Los Angeles Times\" said they examined the materials offered by the sons to support the story and found them to be \"inconclusive\".\n\nSome researchers—among them Gaeton Fonzi, Larry Hancock, Noel Twyman, and John Simkin—believe that CIA operative David Morales was involved in the Kennedy assassination. Morales' friend, Ruben Carbajal, claimed that in 1973 Morales opened up about his involvement with the Bay of Pigs Invasion operation, and stated that \"Kennedy had been responsible for him having to watch all the men he recruited and trained get wiped out.\" Carbajal claimed that Morales said, \"Well, we took care of that SOB, didn't we?\" Morales is alleged to have once told friends, \"I was in Dallas when we got the son of a bitch, and I was in Los Angeles when we got the little bastard\", presumably referring to the assassination of President Kennedy in Dallas, Texas and to the later assassination of Senator Robert Kennedy in Los Angeles, California on June 5, 1968. Morales is alleged to have expressed deep anger toward the Kennedys for what he saw as their betrayal during the Bay of Pigs Invasion.\n\nIn an article published in the \"South Florida Sun Sentinel\" on December 4, 1963, James Buchanan, a former reporter for the Pompano Beach Sun-Sentinel, claimed that Frank Sturgis had met Lee Harvey Oswald in Miami, Florida shortly before Kennedy's assassination. Buchanan claimed that Oswald had tried to infiltrate the International Anti-Communist Brigade. When he was questioned by the FBI about this story, Sturgis claimed that Buchanan had misquoted him regarding his comments about Oswald.\n\nAccording to a memo sent by L. Patrick Gray, acting FBI Director, to H. R. Haldeman on June 19, 1972, \"[s]ources in Miami say he [Sturgis] is now associated with organized crime activities\". In his book, \"Assassination of JFK\", published in 1977, Bernard Fensterwald claims that Sturgis was heavily involved with the Mafia, particularly with Santo Trafficante's and Meyer Lansky's activities in Florida.\n\nAfter returning from the Soviet Union, Lee Harvey Oswald became close friends with Dallas resident and petroleum geologist George de Mohrenschildt. De Mohrenschildt would later write an extensive memoir in which he discussed his friendship with Oswald. De Mohrenschildt's wife would later give the House Select Committee on Assassinations a photograph that showed Lee Harvey Oswald, standing in his Dallas backyard, holding two Marxist newspapers and a Carcano rifle, with a pistol on his hip. Thirteen years after the assassination, in September 1976, the CIA requested that the FBI locate De Mohrenschildt, in response to a letter De Mohrenschildt had written directly to his friend, CIA Director George H.W. Bush, appealing to Bush to stop the agency from taking action against him.\n\nSeveral television programs, including Jesse Ventura's \"Conspiracy Theories\", have alleged that De Mohrenschildt was Oswald's CIA handler but have offered little evidence. On March 29, 1977, De Mohrenschildt stated during an interview with author Edward Jay Epstein that he had been ordered by CIA operative J. Walton Moore to meet Oswald. He also told Epstein that he would not have met Oswald had he not been ordered to do so. (In fact, de Mohrenschildt had met Oswald several times, from the summer of 1962 to April 1963.) That same day, De Mohrenschildt was informed by his daughter that a representative of the House Select Committee on Assassinations had stopped by, leaving a card and intending to return that evening. De Mohrenschildt then committed suicide by shooting himself in the head shortly thereafter. De Mohrenschildt's wife later told sheriff's office investigators that her husband had been hospitalized for depression and paranoia in late 1976 and had tried to kill himself four times that year.\n\nFindings by the Warren Commission and other federal investigations have conclusively ruled that Oswald either acted alone or conspired with others in the assassination, citing his actions in the years leading up to the event in support of that conclusion. Evidence of Oswald's pro-communist and radical tendencies include his defection to Russia, the New Orleans branch of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee he had organized, and also various public and private statements made by him espousing Marxism and extreme leftist ideologies.\n\nOther researchers have argued that his behavior was in fact a carefully-planned ruse as part of an effort by U.S. intelligence agencies to infiltrate subversive groups and conduct counter-intelligence operations in communist countries (such as Russia and Cuba), and that his involvement in the assassination was instead that of an agent or informant of the government trying to expose the assassination plot.\n\nOswald himself claimed to be an innocent, denying all charges and even declaring to reporters that he was \"just a patsy\". He also insisted that the photos of him with a rifle had been faked, an assertion contradicted by statements made by his wife, Marina (who claimed to have taken the photos), and the analysis of photographic experts such as Lyndal L. Shaneyfelt of the FBI. In any case, less than 48 hours after his arrest Oswald was murdered, leaving many unanswered questions and even fueling speculation by some as evidence of a cover-up.\n\nOswald's role as FBI informant was investigated by Lee Rankin and others of the Warren Commission, but their findings were inconclusive. Several FBI employees had made statements indicating that Oswald was indeed a paid informant, but the commission was nonetheless unable to verify the veracity of those claims. FBI agent James P. Hosty reported that his office's interactions with Oswald were limited to dealing with his complaints about being harassed by the Bureau for being a communist sympathizer. In the weeks before the assassination Oswald made a personal visit to the FBI's Dallas branch office with a hand-delivered letter which purportedly contained a threat of some sort but, controversially, Hosty destroyed the letter by order of J. Gordon Shanklin, his supervisor.\n\nSome researchers suggest that Oswald was an active agent of the Central Intelligence Agency, often pointing to the fact that he attempted to defect to Russia but was nonetheless able to return without difficulty (even receiving a repatriation loan from the State Department) as evidence of such. A former roommate of Oswald, James Botelho (who would later become a California judge) stated in an interview with Mark Lane that he believed that Oswald was involved in an intelligence assignment in Russia, although Botelho made no mention of those suspicions in his testimony to the Warren Commission years earlier. Oswald's mother, Marguerite, often insisted that her son was recruited by an agency of the U.S. Government and sent to Russia. New Orleans District Attorney (and later judge) Jim Garrison, who in 1967 brought Clay Shaw to trial for the assassination of President Kennedy also held the opinion that Oswald was most likely a CIA agent who had been drawn into the plot to be used as a scapegoat, even going as far as to say that Oswald \"genuinely was probably a hero\". Senator Richard Schweiker, a member of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence remarked that \"everywhere you look with [Oswald], there're fingerprints of intelligence\". Richard Sprague, interim staff director and chief counsel to the U.S. House Select Committee on Assassinations, stated that if he \"had to do it over again\", he would have investigated the Kennedy assassination by probing Oswald's ties to the Central Intelligence Agency.\n\nIn 1978, former CIA paymaster and accountant James Wilcott testified before the HSCA, stating that Lee Harvey Oswald was a \"known agent\" of the Central Intelligence Agency. Wilcott and his wife, Elsie (also a former employee of the CIA) later repeated those claims in a story by the \"San Francisco Chronicle\". Despite its official policy of neither confirming nor denying the status of agents, both the CIA itself and many officers working in the region at the time (including David Atlee Phillips) have \"unofficially\" dismissed the plausibility of any CIA ties to Oswald. Robert Blakey, staff director and chief counsel for the U.S. House Select Committee on Assassinations supported that assessment in his conclusions as well.\n\nSome conspiracy theorists have alleged a plot involving elements of the Mafia, the CIA and the anti-Castro Cubans, including author Anthony Summers and journalist Ruben Castaneda. Castaneda wrote: \"Based on the evidence, it is likely that JFK was killed by a coalition of anti-Castro Cubans, the Mob, and elements of the CIA.\" In his book, \"They Killed Our President\", former Minnesota governor Jesse Ventura also concluded: \"John F. Kennedy was murdered by a conspiracy involving disgruntled CIA agents, anti-Castro Cubans, and members of the Mafia, all of whom were extremely angry at what they viewed as Kennedy's appeasement policies toward Communist Cuba and the Soviet Union.\"\n\nJack Van Lanningham, a prison cellmate of Mafia boss Carlos Marcello, claimed that Marcello confessed to him in 1985 to having organized Kennedy's assassination. Lanningham also claimed that the FBI covered up the taped confession which he said the FBI had in its possession. Robert Blakey, who was chief counsel for the House Select Committee on Assassinations, concluded in his book, \"The Plot to Kill the President\", that Marcello was likely part of a Mafia conspiracy behind the assassination, and that the Mafia had the means, motive, and opportunity required to carry it out.\n"}
{"id": "43867076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43867076", "title": "Caitlin Doughty", "text": "Caitlin Doughty\n\nCaitlin Doughty (born August 19, 1984) is an American mortician, author, blogger, and YouTube personality known for advocating death acceptance and the reform of Western funeral industry practices. She is the creator of the web series \"Ask a Mortician\", founder of The Order of the Good Death, and author of two bestselling books, \"Smoke Gets in Your Eyes & Other Lessons from the Crematory\" in 2014, and \"From Here to Eternity; Traveling the World to Find the Good Death\" in 2017, both published by W.W. Norton and Company.\n\nDoughty grew up in Oahu, Hawaii, where she had no exposure to death until, at age 8, she witnessed another child fall to her death from a balcony at a shopping mall. She was quickly taken from the scene of the accident and it was never spoken of again. For several years, she became obsessed with fears of her own or her family's deaths. Doughty says she could have recovered better from the incident had she been given the opportunity to face the reality of the child's death.\n\nDoughty attended St. Andrew's Priory School, a private Episcopal all-girls college prep school in Honolulu. In college she majored in medieval history at the University of Chicago, focusing on death and culture. She studied the European witch trials in the early modern period, and directed a play she had written based on the works of Edgar Allan Poe and the Christina Rossetti poem \"Goblin Market\".\n\nAfter graduation and moving to San Francisco in 2006, at age 22, she sought hands-on exposure to modern death practices in funeral homes, and after seeking employment for six months, was hired in the crematory of Pacific Interment (called Westwind Cremation & Burial in her book) despite her lack of any experience in the funeral industry. Pacific Interment could be called \"the anti-Forest Lawn\", referring to what Doughty sees as the theme-park-like, kitschy corporate funeral behemoth that much of modern American funeral practice is modeled on.\nShe picked up corpses from homes and hospitals in a van, prepared them for viewings, cremated them, and delivered the cremains to the families. Dealing with bureaucracy, such as acquiring death certificates or obtaining the release of a body from the coroner, occupied much of her work. Her boss and coworkers at Pacific Interment often tested her with very hands-on assignments, as on her first day at work she had to shave a corpse, and Doughty unflappably accepted any task, a willing jack-of-all-trades, eager to prove her mettle.\n\nDoughty knew almost from the beginning of her work in the death industry that she wanted to change attitudes about death, and find a way to offer alternative funeral arrangements. After one year at the crematory, Doughty attended Cypress College's mortuary science program, and graduated as a certified mortician, though in California there are paths to becoming licensed without attending mortuary college. She founded The Order of the Good Death, an association of like-minded death professionals, along with artists, writers, and academics who shared her goals of reforming Western attitudes about death, funerals, and mourning.\n\nDoughty's main inspiration for her advocacy work was the frequent absence of the decedents' families in the process, which she attributed to the Western death anxiety and death phobia. She wanted to encourage death acceptance, and a return to such practices as \"memento mori\", reminders of one's own mortality, resulting in healthier grieving, mourning, and closure after the inevitable deaths of people around us, as well as starting a movement to broaden the funeral industry to offer more funeral options, such as natural burial, sky burial, alkaline hydrolysis (liquid cremation), or promession. Embalming began to dominate in the US after the Civil War. A century later, in the 1960s, Americans began to turn away from embalming and burial, as cremation became increasingly popular, so that today it is used in almost half of deaths in urban areas. Cremation is seen as a threat to the traditional funeral industry, but has a reputation as the more environmentally friendly option. This change can be traced to the lifting of the ban on cremation by Pope Paul VI in 1963, and to the publication in the same year of \"The American Way of Death\" by Jessica Mitford, documenting abuses in the funeral industry and criticizing the excessive cost of funerals. Mitford's book, and the movement it started, was one of Doughty's inspirations, but Doughty feels that while Mitford had the right target, the profit-driven funeral industry, Mitford erred in sharing the industry's, and the public's, unhealthy desire to push out of sight and avoid thinking about the corpse itself. Doughty seeks to build on Mitford's reforms but in a direction that embraces the reality of death and returns to funeral and mourning practices that include spending time with and having contact with the dead body itself.\n\nDoughty advocates reappropriating pejoratives like 'morbid', and wants to reverse the attitude that \"talking about death is deviant\". She says, \"Death is not deviant, it's actually the most normal and universal act there is.\" She is working to overcome the belief that dead bodies are dangerous and can only be handled by trained professionals using technical equipment and specialized facilities. She says the most important thing she wants the public to know is that the corpse is the family's legal quasi-property, and that you have the power over what happens to that body. Don't let anyone, funeral home, hospital, coroner, etc., pressure you into making a quick decision you might regret. Take the time to do your research and understand your options. The dead person will still be dead in 24 hours; you have time to make the right decision for you. While a body is not commercial property, which can be transferred or held for a debt, for purposes of burial the body is treated as the next of kin's property. Her highest priority changes that she would like to see in US law would be the repeal of the laws in eight states that require a funeral home for at least some part of the process, and to make alkaline hydrolysis available in more than the current eight states.\n\nOne funeral industry professional of 40 years experience lauded the goal of greater family involvement in funerals, but said it was \"virtually impossible\" for many families today to return to preparing bodies themselves or hosting wakes in their own homes, citing the challenges of moving a body themselves, or dealing with a body that had been autopsied, or, especially, the innate fear of contact with the dead, which he did not think would \"ever change\". Doughty says her 'dream funeral' is one where the family is involved, washing and dressing the body and keeping it at home. When they've taken the time they need with the dead person, transporting the person to a natural burial cemetery and putting them straight into the ground, no heavy sealed casket or vault. Just food for worms.\n\nNPR interviewer Terry Gross said to Doughty that if she spent time at home with a loved one's body in a natural state, she feared she would be left with her last memory of them as a corpse, growing cold and showing subtle changes that indicate the permanence of the end of life, the very things Doughty said are the goal of closer involvement in the death process. Doughty said she has never heard regrets from anyone who has done it; rather, they said it was a positive experience where they felt empowered and that they were \"giving something back to this person that you loved.\" Conversely, Doughty has heard from many who only briefly saw the body in a hospital, and later in an artificial, embalmed state, and they regret not having more time to grieve close to the corpse.\n\nGross asked Doughty if the depictions of death in beheading videos is comparable to the immediate experience of death she advocates, and Doughty said they were in no way similar, one a form of psychological terror\" and the other \"a dead body in its natural state.\" But, Doughty said, terrorists know how strong the modern fear and denial of death is, and they are exploiting that to heighten the force of the terror they cause.\n\nDoughty's YouTube series \"Ask a Mortician\", begun in 2011, humorously explores morbid and sometimes taboo death topics such as decomposition and necrophilia. By 2012, after 12 episodes, \"Ask a Mortician\" had 434,000 views, and by October 2018 the channel had 186 clips with a total of 57,000,000 views. Doughty uses an irreverent, offbeat and surreal tone to attract the largest possible audience for a subject that is otherwise off-putting and depressing to many potential viewers. Doughty said, \"I take my job and this whole movement incredibly seriously. I do [the videos] with a sense of humor, but it's my life, and it's really important to me that a positive death message gets across.\"\n\nFans of \"Ask a Mortician\" have told Doughty they were shamed for wanting to view the corpse of someone they lost, which Doughty says is the result of the death industry \"whitewashing death\". Doughty instead advocates spending time with the body, not just hours, but around two days, in order to fully accept the death. She also encourages rituals and personal participation in the preparation of the corpse, including washing or dressing it.\n\nIn September 2014, at age 30, Doughty's book, \"Smoke Gets in Your Eyes & Other Lessons from the Crematory\" was published by W. W. Norton & Company. It is a memoir of her experiences that serves as a manifesto of her goals. The book is named for the 20th-century pop song \"Smoke Gets in Your Eyes\", in reference to both the literal smoke of cremation and the associated emotions. W. W. Norton's Tom Mayer outbid seven other publishers for the worldwide rights to \"Smoke Gets in Your Eyes\" in 2012. The book debuted at #14 on \"The New York Times\" and at #10 on the \"Los Angeles Times\" bestseller lists of hardcover nonfiction for the week ending October 5, 2014.\n\nDoughty's intention with the book was to combine \"memoir, science, and manifesto\" in an entertaining way that would attract a wide readership to the unpleasant topics of death, decay, and corpse handling, in order to challenge the reader to confront their own mortality. Doughty says readers have told her that they themselves are fascinated by the graphic descriptions of such things as \"stomach-content removal\" or the \"bubblating\" of human fat during a cremation, yet they are \"not sure other people will be able to handle it.\" Doughty said, \"I think we need to admit that, as a group, as humans, we are all drawn to the gory details. When reality is hidden from us, we crave it.\"\n\n\"The Washington Post\" noted that while Doughty's \"endearingly anxious inner workings take up a large part\" of the book, there are also portraits of her three eccentric coworkers at Pacific Interment, who each teach lessons she carries after leaving to attend mortuary school. \"What holds \"Smoke Gets in Your Eyes\" together,\" the \"Post\" said, is Doughty's overarching goal to increase the reader's awareness of their own mortality and face their fear of death, and the book's effective use of humor keeps it from being too sorrowful or gruesome, in spite of its graphic descriptions. \"The Boston Globe\"s review of \"Smoke Gets in Your Eyes\" said that, \"If at times Doughty's voice is a bit too breezy ... her observations are solid.\" The Fredericksburg, Virginia \"Free Lance-Star\" said the book was engrossing and \"fulfills all its pre-pub hype, jacket blurbs and positive advance reviews\". Natalie Kusz wrote in \"The New York Times Book Review\" that, \"the book is more consequential than its spin potential, [...] more cultural critique than exposé,\" using Doughty's personal narrative to lead the public to a new relationship with death.\n\nSince writing the book, Doughty began working to launch Undertaking LA, a funeral service alternative to the mainstream funeral options. It started as a seminar series meant to educate the public on their death options under California law. As of 2014, the service consisted of \"two licensed morticians telling the public, 'you don't need us!'\", instead advocating DIY funerals.\n\nDoughty's second book, \"From Here to Eternity: Traveling the World to Find the Good Death\", illustrated by Landis Blair, chronicles her travels to see first hand death customs in Mexico, Indonesia, Japan, Spain, Bolivia, and, in the US, an open air funeral pyre and a body farm. Published in October, 2017, the book reached #7 on the LA Times Bestseller list and #9 on the New York Times list.\n\nCaitlin Doughty additionally is the founder of \"The Order of the Good Death\" an inclusive community of funeral industry professionals, academics, as well as artists who advocate for and make possible, a more death informed society. \"The Order of the Good Death\" is presented to the public as a website that shares articles and information by prominent figures in the death industry that make individuals more informed about the inevitable conclusion of one's life. In previous years the public had an engagement with the cemetery as a community place, which people do not have anymore. The Order of the Good Death is Caitlin Doughty's way of creating a community while teaching individuals to accept death . Doughty's work has a strong focus on ways of \"making death a part of one's life\". \"If Doughty and the Order's death-care revolution is successful, Americans will be more comfortable contemplating mortality and dying— thus preparing for it, seriously considering alternatives such as green burial, composting, and using crematoriums that have carbon-offset policies\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "232689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232689", "title": "Club of Rome", "text": "Club of Rome\n\nThe Club of Rome describes itself as \"an organisation of individuals who share a common concern for the future of humanity and strive to make a difference. Our mission is to promote understanding of the global challenges facing humanity and to propose solutions through scientific analysis, communication and advocacy.\" Founded in 1968 at Accademia dei Lincei in Rome, Italy, the Club of Rome consists of current and former heads of state, UN bureaucrats, high-level politicians and government officials, diplomats, scientists, economists, and business leaders from around the globe. It stimulated considerable public attention in 1972 with the first report to the Club of Rome, \"The Limits to Growth\". Since 1 July 2008 the organization has been based in Winterthur, Switzerland.\n\nThe Club of Rome was founded in April 1968 by Aurelio Peccei, an Italian industrialist, and Alexander King, a Scottish scientist. It was formed when a small international group of people from the fields of academia, civil society, diplomacy, and industry met at Villa Farnesina in Rome, hence the name.\n\nCentral to the formation of the club was Peccei's concept of the \"problematic\". It was his opinion that viewing the problems of mankind—environmental deterioration, poverty, endemic ill-health, urban blight, criminality—individually, in isolation or as \"problems capable of being solved in their own terms\", was doomed to failure. All are interrelated. \"It is this generalized meta-problem (or meta-system of problems) which we have called and shall continue to call the \"problematic\" that inheres in our situation.\"\n\nIn 1970, Peccei's vision was laid out in a document written by Hasan Özbekhan, Erich Jantsch, and Alexander Christakis. Entitled, \"The Predicament of Mankind; Quest for Structured Responses to Growing Worldwide Complexities and Uncertainties: A PROPOSAL\". The document would serve as the roadmap for the \"LTG\" project.\n\nThe Club of Rome stimulated considerable public attention with the first report to the club, \"The Limits to Growth\". Published in 1972, its computer simulations suggested that economic growth could not continue indefinitely because of resource depletion. The 1973 oil crisis increased public concern about this problem. The report went on to sell 30 million copies in more than 30 languages, making it the best-selling environmental book in history.\n\nEven before \"The Limits to Growth\" was published, Eduard Pestel and Mihajlo Mesarovic of Case Western Reserve University had begun work on a far more elaborate model (it distinguished ten world regions and involved 200,000 equations compared with 1,000 in the Meadows model). The research had the full support of the club and its final publication, \"Mankind at the Turning Point\" was accepted as the official \"second report\" to the Club of Rome in 1974. In addition to providing a more refined regional breakdown, Pestel and Mesarovic had succeeded in integrating social as well as technical data. The second report revised the scenarios of the original \"Limits to Growth\" and gave a more optimistic prognosis for the future of the environment, noting that many of the factors involved were within human control and therefore that environmental and economic catastrophe were preventable or avoidable.\n\nIn 1991, the club published \"The First Global Revolution\". It analyses the problems of humanity, calling these collectively or in essence the \"problematique\". It notes that, historically, social or political unity has commonly been motivated by enemies in common: \"The need for enemies seems to be a common historical factor. Some states have striven to overcome domestic failure and internal contradictions by blaming external enemies. The ploy of finding a scapegoat is as old as mankind itself—when things become too difficult at home, divert attention to adventure abroad. Bring the divided nation together to face an outside enemy, either a real one, or else one invented for the purpose. With the disappearance of the traditional enemy, the temptation is to use religious or ethnic minorities as scapegoats, especially those whose differences from the majority are disturbing.\" \"Every state has been so used to classifying its neighbours as friend or foe, that the sudden absence of traditional adversaries has left governments and public opinion with a great void to fill. New enemies have to be identified, new strategies imagined, and new weapons devised.\" \"In searching for a common enemy against whom we can unite, we came up with the idea that pollution, the threat of global warming, water shortages, famine and the like, would fit the bill. In their totality and their interactions these phenomena do constitute a common threat which must be confronted by everyone together. But in designating these dangers as the enemy, we fall into the trap, which we have already warned readers about, namely mistaking symptoms for causes. All these dangers are caused by human intervention in natural processes, and it is only through changed attitudes and behaviour that they can be overcome. The real enemy then is humanity itself.\"\n\nIn 2001 the Club of Rome established a think tank, called \"tt30\", consisting of about 30 men and women, ages 25–35. It aimed to identify and solve problems in the world, from the perspective of youth.\n\nA study by Graham Turner of the research organisation CSIRO in Australia in 2008 found that \"30 years of historical data compare favorably with key features of a business-as-usual scenario called the \"standard run\" scenario, which results in collapse of the global system midway through the 21st century.\"\n\nAccording to its website, the Club of Rome is composed of \"scientists, economists, businessmen, international high civil servants, heads of state and former heads of state from all five continents who are convinced that the future of humankind is not determined once and for all and that each human being can contribute to the improvement of our societies.\"\n\nThe Club of Rome is a membership organization and has different membership categories. Full members engage in the research activities, projects, and contribute to decision-making processes during the Club's annual general assembly. Of the full members, 12 are elected to form the executive committee, which sets the general direction and the agenda. Of the executive committee, two are elected as co-presidents and two as vice-presidents. The secretary-general is elected from the members of the executive committee. The secretary-general is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the club from its headquarters in Winterthur, Switzerland. Aside from full members there are associate members, who participate in research and projects, but have no vote in the general assembly.\n\nThe club also has honorary members. Notable honorary members include Princess Beatrix of the Netherlands, Orio Giarini, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, Mikhail Gorbachev, King Juan Carlos I of Spain, Horst Köhler, and Manmohan Singh.\n\nThe annual general assembly of 2016 took place in Berlin on 10–11 November. Among the guest speakers were former German President Christian Wulff, German Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development Gerd Müller, as well as Nobel Laureate Muhammad Yunus.\n\nThe Club has national associations in 35 countries and territories. The mission of the national associations is to spread the ideas and vision in their respective countries, to offer solutions and to lobby for a more sustainable and just economy in their nations, and to support the international secretariat of the Club with the organization of events, such as the annual general assembly.\n\n there have been 43 reports to the club. These are peer-reviewed studies commissioned by the executive committee, or suggested by a member or group of members, or by outside individuals and institutions. The most recent is \"Come On! Capitalism, Short-termism, Population and the Destruction of the Planet\".\n\nIn 2016, the club initiated a new youth project called \"Reclaim Economics\". With this project they support students, activists, intellectuals, artists, video-makers, teachers, professors and others to shift the teaching of economics away from the mathematical pseudo-science it has become.\n\nNobel prize-winning economist Robert Solow criticized \"The Limits to Growth\" as having \"simplistic\" scenarios. He has also been a vocal critic of the Club of Rome, ostensibly for amateurism. He has said that, \"The one thing that really annoys me is amateurs making absurd statements about economics, and I thought that the Club of Rome was nonsense. Not because natural resources or environmental necessities might not at some time pose a limit, not on growth, but on the level of economic activity—I didn't think that was a nonsensical idea—but because the Club of Rome was doing amateur dynamics without a license, without a proper qualification. And they were doing it badly, so I got steamed up about that.\"\n\nAn analysis of the world model used for \"The Limits to Growth\" by mathematicians Vermeulens and Jongh shown it to be \"very sensitive to small parameter variations\" and having \"dubious assumptions and approximations\".\n\nAn interdisciplinary team at Sussex University's Science Policy Research Unit reviewed the structure and assumptions of the models used and published its finding in \"Models of Doom\"; showing that the forecasts of the world's future are very sensitive to a few unduly pessimistic key assumptions. The Sussex scientists also claim that the Meadows et Al. methods, data, and predictions are faulty, that their world models (and their Malthusian bias) do not accurately reflect reality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "873265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=873265", "title": "Death of Blair Peach", "text": "Death of Blair Peach\n\nClement Blair Peach (25 March 1946 – 23 April 1979) was a New Zealand-born teacher who died during an anti-racism demonstration in Southall, Middlesex, England. A campaigner and activist against the far right, in April 1979 Peach took part in an Anti-Nazi League demonstration in Southall against a National Front election meeting in the town hall and was knocked unconscious.\n\nHe died the next day in hospital from head injuries that he sustained. An inquest jury returned a verdict of death by misadventure in May 1980. Peach's girlfriend, Celia Stubbs, continued to campaign for many years for a public inquiry into his death. The Metropolitan Police Service reached an out-of-court settlement in 1989 with Peach's brother. The Metropolitan Police reports into the death of Blair Peach, identifying the probable responsibility of one of their own officers, were made available to the public on 27 April 2010.\n\nPeach was born in New Zealand. He studied at Victoria University of Wellington and was for a time co-editor of the \"Argot\" literary magazine with his flatmates Dennis List and David Rutherford. He worked as a fireman and as a hospital orderly in New Zealand before moving to London in 1969. He became a teacher at the Phoenix School in Bow, East London, a special needs school, working there from 1969 until his death 10 years later. At the time of his death he was an active member of the Socialist Teachers' Association within the National Union of Teachers, and a member of the Socialist Workers' Party.\n\nPeach was an active member of the East London Teachers' Association, a branch of the National Union of Teachers, and became its president in the last year of his life. In 1974, he was charged with threatening behaviour after challenging a local publican's refusal to serve black customers, but acquitted.\n\nPeach became a campaigner and activist against far right and neo-Nazi organisations. He attended a demonstration held by the Anti-Nazi League outside the town hall in Southall on Monday 23 April 1979, St George's Day, joining 3,000 protesters against a National Front meeting taking place in the town hall, in the run-up to the 1979 general election. Present at the demonstration were over 2,500 police, and became violent; more than 40 people, including 21 police, were injured and 300 were arrested. Peach was knocked unconscious in a side street, at the junction of Beachcroft Avenue and Orchard Avenue (), and died the next day in Ealing Hospital. Another demonstrator, Clarence Baker, a singer of the reggae band Misty in Roots, remained in a coma for five months.\n\nDays after Peach's death, 10,000 marched past the place where he collapsed. The now-demolished Dominion Cinema, Southall, where his body was lying in repose, was visited by 8,000 Sikhs on the eve of Peach's funeral. 10,000 people attended his funeral, which took place 51 days after 23 April. Public reaction to Peach's death, and other underlying racial tensions including excessive police use of the Sus law, ultimately led to the 1981 Brixton riot and a public inquiry by Lord Scarman.\n\nA team of 30 detectives from the Metropolitan Police, headed by Commander John Cass, conducted an internal investigation of Peach's death. The pathologist's report indicated that Peach's broken skull was not the result of being struck by a truncheon, and he suggested Peach may have been struck by a lead weighted rubber cosh or hosepipe filled with lead shot; unauthorised weapons. Cass' investigation of the Met's Special Patrol Group (SPG) headquarters unearthed a hoard of unauthorised weapons, including various illegal truncheons and knives, two crowbars, a whip, a 3 ft wooden stave, and a lead-weighted leather stick. An officer was discovered attempting to dispose of a metal cosh; however, it was proven not to be the weapon that killed Peach. Another officer was discovered to be a Nazi supporter. It was also uncovered that one officer present at the riots, who was clean shaven on 23 April, decided to grow a beard, whilst another shaved off his moustache which he had sported on 23 April, the day of Peach's death. Another officer refused to participate in an identity parade, and all the police officers' uniforms had been dry cleaned before they were to be inspected.\n\nCass' reports were leaked and it was reported that he had narrowed down the suspects to six SPG officers, one of whom he believed to have killed Peach. It was claimed by activists that the coroner, Doctor John Burton, dismissed reports that Peach was killed by an officer even before the inquest had finished.\n\nThe coroner decided to refuse to let any of the details from the Cass Report be submitted as evidence. Burton then wrote various letters to the Home Secretary, Lord Chancellor and Attorney General, attacking what he believed to be a well organised fabrication being spread about the death of Peach. The letters accused media organisations such as the BBC for promoting \"biased propaganda\". He continued by pouring scorn onto the witnesses statements, stating that some were biased as they were \"totally politically committed to the Socialist Workers Party\" and dismissed their evidence as \"fabrication\". He also stated, referencing some of the Sikh witnesses, that they \"did not have experience of the English system\" to give reliable evidence. Burton's behaviour was described by one Home Office official as \"extremely irate\", and he resisted calls for the inquest to have a jury until he was forced by the court of appeal. Burton was concerned that the inquest might be hijacked by the \"extreme left\". The inquest jury returned a verdict of death by misadventure on 27 May 1980, prompting Peach's girlfriend, Celia Stubbs, to claim the police constable who allegedly administered the fatal blows had got off \"scot-free\". Eleven witnesses said they had seen members of the SPG hit Peach.\n\nAfter the inquest Burton wrote a large article entitled \"The Blair Peach Inquest - the Unpublished Story\" and attempted to publish it until he was convinced by civil servants that the report would \"discredit the impartiality of coroners in general and Dr Burton in particular\".\n\nIn June 2009, the Metropolitan Police Authority decided to publish the original internal police inquiry into Blair Peach's death by the end of the year. , the Crown Prosecution Service was reviewing the internal report and said it would advise police as to whether further action should be taken.\n\nThe Cass report into the death of Blair Peach was published by the Metropolitan Police on 27 April 2010. The report concluded that Blair Peach was \"almost certainly\" killed by one of six SPG officers, some of whom then lied to investigators to cover up the actions of their colleague. making it impossible to identify the killer.\n\nThe Metropolitan Police report stated that an SPG policeman, identified as Officer E, was “almost certainly” the one whose assault killed Peach.\nAlan Murray, at the time an inspector in charge of SPG Unit One and now a lecturer in Accounting and Corporate Responsibility at Sheffield University, has admitted that he believes himself to be Officer E, but has denied killing Peach. \nMurray was described as “young and forceful” by the report, lied to investigators, and refused to participate in identity parades;\n\nA primary school in Southall was later named after Blair Peach.\n\n\"Reggae Fi Peach\", a song on Linton Kwesi Johnson's album \"Bass Culture\", chronicles the death of Blair Peach in the form of dub poetry. The Ruts commemorated the death in the tune \"Jah War\". The 2 Tone album \"The 2 Tone Story\" is dedicated to his memory. Hazel O'Connor wrote \"Calls the Tune\" in his memory.\n\nThe lyrics to The Pop Group's 1980 song \"Justice\" (from their \"For How Much Longer Do We Tolerate Mass Murder?\" LP) ask, \"Who killed Blair Peach?\"\n\nRalph McTell wrote the song \"Water of Dreams\" in 1982.\n\nChris Searle edited \"One for Blair\" in 1989.\n\nThe Blair Peach Award was set up by the National Union of Teachers in 2010 to commemorate the former NUT member and as recognition of exemplary work by current members in schools and Union branches for equality and diversity issues.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19478300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19478300", "title": "Dorothy Eady", "text": "Dorothy Eady\n\nDorothy Louise Eady, also known as Omm Sety or Om Seti (16 January 1904 – 21 April 1981), was keeper of the Abydos Temple of Seti I and draughtswoman for the Department of Egyptian Antiquities. She is especially well known for her belief that in a previous life she had been a priestess in ancient Egypt, as well as her considerable historical research at Abydos. Her life and work has been the subject of many articles, television documentaries, and biographies. A 1979 \"New York Times\" article described her life story as \"one of the Western World's most intriguing and convincing modern case histories of reincarnation\".\n\nDorothy Louise Eady was born in London in 1904 into an Irish lower-middle-class family as the only child to Reuben Ernest Eady, a master tailor and Caroline Mary (Frost) Eady, and raised in a coastal town. At the age of three, after falling down a flight of stairs, she began exhibiting strange behaviours, asking that she be \"brought home\". She also had developed the foreign accent syndrome. This caused some conflict in her early life. Her Sunday school teacher requested that her parents keep her away from class, because she had compared Christianity with \"heathen\" ancient Egyptian religion. She was expelled from a Dulwich girls school after she refused to sing a hymn that called on God to \"curse the swart Egyptians\". Her regular visits to Catholic mass, which she liked because it reminded her of the \"Old Religion\", were terminated after an interrogation and visit to her parents by a priest.\n\nAfter being taken by her parents to visit the British Museum, and on observing a photograph in the New Kingdom temple exhibits room, the young Eady called out \"There is my home!\" but \"where are the trees? Where are the gardens?\" The temple was that of Seti I, the father of Rameses the Great. She ran about the halls of the Egyptian rooms, \"amongst her peoples\", kissing the statues' feet. After this trip she took every opportunity to visit the British Museum rooms. There, she eventually met E. A. Wallis Budge, who was taken by her youthful enthusiasm and encouraged her in the study of hieroglyphs.\n\nAfter a close escape during a bombing raid during World War I, she moved to her grandmother's house in Sussex. Here, she continued her study of ancient Egypt at the Eastbourne public library. When she was fifteen she described a nocturnal visit from the mummy of Pharaoh Seti I. Her behaviour, coupled with sleep walking and nightmares, led her to be incarcerated in sanatoriums several times. On leaving school at sixteen she visited museums and archaeological sites around Britain, facilitated by her father's investigations into the nationwide booming cinema industry.\n\nEady became a part-time student at Plymouth Art School and began to collect affordable Egyptian antiquities. During her period at Portsmouth she became part of a theatre group that on occasion performed a play based on the story of Isis and Osiris. She took the role of Isis and sang the lamentation for Osiris's death, based on Andrew Lang's translation:\n\nAt the age of twenty-seven, she began working in London with an Egyptian public relations magazine, for which she wrote articles and drew cartoons that reflected her political support for an independent Egypt. During this period she met her future husband Eman Abdel Meguid, an Egyptian student, with whom she continued to correspond when he returned home.\n\nIn 1931 she moved to Egypt after Emam Abdel Meguid, by now a teacher of English, asked her to marry him. On arriving in Egypt, she kissed the ground and announced she had come home to stay. The couple stayed in Cairo and her husband's family gave her the nickname \"Bulbul\" (Nightingale). Their son was named Sety, from which is derived her popular name 'Omm Sety' (\"Mother of Sety\"). \nAfter a chance meeting with George Reisner's secretary, who commented on her apparent ability to charm snakes and told her that spells on such powers were in early ancient Egyptian literature, Omm Sety visited the Fifth Dynasty pyramid of Unas. Klaus Baer recalled her piety when she accompanied him on a visit to Sakkara in the early 1950s, when she brought an offering and took off her shoes before entering Unas' pyramid. She continued to report apparitions and out-of-body experiences during this time, which caused friction with the upper-middle-class family she had married into.\n\nDuring her early period she reported night time visitations by an apparition of Hor-Ra. He slowly dictated to her, over a twelve-month period, the story of her previous life. The story took up around seventy pages of cursive hieroglyphic text. It described the life of a young woman in ancient Egypt, called Bentreshyt, who had reincarnated in the person of Dorothy Eady. Bentreshyt (\"Harp of Joy\") is described in this text as being of humble origin, her mother a vegetable seller and her father a soldier during the reign of Seti I (c.1290 BC to 1279 BC). When she was three, her mother died, and she was placed in the temple of Kom el-Sultan because her father couldn't afford her. There, she was brought up to be a priestess. When she was twelve years old the High Priest asked her if she wished to go out into the world or stay and become a consecrated virgin. In the absence of full understanding and without a practical alternative, she took the vows.\n\nDuring the next two years, she learned her role in the annual drama of Osiris's passion and resurrection, a role that only virgin priestesses consecrated to Isis could perform. One day Seti I visited and spoke to her. They became lovers, eating \"the uncooked goose,\" an ancient Egyptian term that has been compared to \"eating the forbidden fruit.\" When Bentreshyt became pregnant she told the High Priest who the father was. The High Priest informed her that the gravity of the offence against Isis was so terrible that death would be the most likely penalty at a trial. Unwilling to face the public scandal for Seti, she committed suicide rather than face trial.\n\nIn 1935, Dorothy Eady separated from her husband when he took a teaching job in Iraq. Their son Sety stayed with her. Two years after the marriage broke down she went to live in Nazlat al-Samman near the Giza pyramids, where she met the Egyptian archaeologist Selim Hassan of the Department of Antiquities, who employed her as his secretary and draughtswoman. She was the department's first female employee and a boon to Hassan. According to Barbara Lesko, \"She was a great help to Egyptian scholars, especially Hassan and Fakhry, correcting their English and writing English-language articles for others. So this poorly educated Englishwoman developed in Egypt into a first-rate draughtswoman and prolific and talented writer who, even under her own name, produced articles, essays, monographs and books of great range, wit and substance.\"\n\nThrough her keen interest in antiquities, she met and befriended many of the famous Egyptologists of the era. Omm Seti made such a significant contribution to Hassan's work that upon his death she was employed by Ahmed Fakhry during his excavations at Dashur. Hassan's magnum opus, the ten-volume \"Excavations at Giza\", gives \"special mention, with sincere gratitude,\" to Dorothy Eady for her editing, drawing, indexing, and proofreading work. She learned from these scholars the techniques of archaeology, whilst they benefited from her expertise in hieroglyphs and drawing.\n\nDuring this time she prayed, made frequent offerings to the gods of ancient Egypt, and would often spend the night in the Great pyramid. Eady became the object of village gossip because she would make night prayers and offerings to Horus at the Great Sphinx. Yet she also was respected by the villagers for her honesty in not hiding her true faith in the Egyptian gods. She was sensitive to the religious observances of others, and would fast with the Muslim villagers during Ramadan and celebrate with Christians at Christmas.\n\nHer associations with the workers and their families gave her first-hand experience of contemporary Egyptian life. She saw a common thread joining all periods of Egyptian history; the Pharaonic, the Greco-Roman, the Christian, and the Islamic. This thread was the Nile, which animated people's lives on many levels.\n\nAhmed Fakhry's Dashur Pyramid Research Project was terminated in early 1956, leaving Dorothy Eady unemployed. Fakhry suggested that she \"climb the Great Pyramid; and when you reach the top, just turn west, address yourself to your Lord Osiris and ask him \"Quo vadis?\". He offered her a choice of taking a well paid job in the Cairo Records Office, or a poorly paid position in Abydos as a draughtswoman. She chose the latter. She reported that Seti I approved of the move. He claimed that the \"wheel of fate\" was turning and this would be a time of testing. If she was chaste she would now undo Bentryshyt's ancient sin.\n\nOn 3 March 1956, the fifty-two-year-old Omm Sety left for Abydos. She set up home in Arabet Abydos, which sits in the cradle of the mountain Pega-the-Gap. The ancient Egyptians believed this mountain led to Amenti and the afterlife. It was here that she began to be called 'Omm Sety', because it was customary in Egyptian villages to refer to a mother by the name of her eldest child.\n\nAbydos had a special significance for her, because it is where she believed Bentreshyt had lived and served in the Temple of Seti. She had made short pilgrimages to the site before, during which she had demonstrated her advanced knowledge. At one of these trips to the temple, the chief inspector from the Antiquities Department, who knew about her claims, had decided to test her by asking her to stand at particular wall paintings in complete darkness. She was instructed to identify them based on her prior knowledge as a temple priestess. She completed the task successfully, even though the painting locations had not yet been published at this time.\n\nShe spent the first two years listing and translating pieces from a recently excavated temple palace. Her work was incorporated into Edourard Ghazouli's monograph \"The Palace and Magazines Attached to the Temple of Sety I at Abydos\". He expressed particular thanks to her in this work and was impressed by the skills she showed in translation of enigmatic texts, along with other members of the Antiquities Department. In 1957, she wrote out a liturgical calendar of feast days based on ancient Egyptian texts.\n\nFor her, the Temple of Seti was a place of peace and security where she was watched over by the benevolent eyes of ancient Egyptian gods. Omm Sety claimed that in her past life as Bentreshyt the temple had a garden, where she had first met Seti I. Her descriptions as a young girl were not believed by her parents, but while she was living in Abydos, the garden was found where she said it would be found. Excavations uncovered a garden which matched her descriptions.\n\nEvery morning and night she would visit the Temple to recite the prayers for the day. On the birthdays of Osiris and Isis she would observe the ancient food abstentions, and bring offerings of beer, wine, bread, and tea biscuits to the Chapel of Osiris. The Lament of Isis and Osiris, which she learned as a girl, would also be recited. She turned one of the temple rooms into a personal office, where she carried out her work and befriended a cobra whom she fed on a regular basis, to the alarm of the temple guards.\n\nShe described the Temple of Seti as like entering a time machine, where the past becomes the present and the modern mind has difficulty understanding a world in which magic is accepted. She claimed that the scenes depicted on the temple walls were active in the minds of ancient Egyptians on two levels. Firstly, they made the actions displayed permanent. The painting of Pharaoh offering bread to Osiris, for example, continued his actions so long as the depiction remained. Secondly, the image could be animated by the spirit of the god, if the person stood before the depiction and called on the god's name.\n\nOmm Sety observed that, although modern village women could have free birth control, they didn't want it. \"If they miss one year without having a child, they go running around all over the place – even to the doctor! And if that doesn't work, they will try all sorts of other things.\" These included approaching a temple image of Isis at Abydos (\"the Good Lady\"), Hathor at Dendera, a statue of Senwosret III south of Abydos, a statue of Taweret in the Cairo museum and the pyramids at Giza.\n\nShe also reported how people would come to her looking for a cure for impotence. For these people she would carry out a ritual based on the Pyramid Texts. It always worked. The use of Heka without Maat was contrary to the \"will of the gods\", so she concentrated on healing people or ridding them of the \"effects of evil spells\". According to an acquaintance, \"Omm Sety wouldn't do any harm to anybody unless he or she did harm to her.\"\n\nShe said that unusual baby feeding methods used in modern times in Egypt, such as breast milk being supplied via bowl, echoed similar scenes from Pharaonic times. The sidelock of youth which ancient Egyptian children wore survived with some modern Egyptian peasant children, who were left with a tuft of hair after the rest is shaved off during their first haircut. Ancient Egyptian boys were circumcised, probably for reasons of hygiene, and she believed this was picked up by the Jews, which in turn was passed down to modern Muslims. Many modern children's games and toys were also played by children in ancient Egypt.\n\nOmm Sety observed that the Tree of Extremity, mentioned in the Quran with inscribed leaves, compares with ancient Egyptian Temple scenes in which a god is shown inscribing the royal cartouche on leaves adorning The Tree of Life.\n\nUniquely for a Muslim land, Omm Sety noted that modern Egyptian villages had a custom of highly visible form of mourning. She attributed this to Egypt's ancient heritage. Such customs were first recorded in the Pyramid Texts during the third millennium BCE. She compared other modern rituals of death with ancient practices, e.g., keeping watch with the dead (even though it is at variance with official Islamic teaching), perfuming the dead, boats in tombs, lights for the dead, the modern peasant practice of placing bread on the bier of the dead, and washing the cloths of the dead. Omm Sety observed that in Lower modern Egypt, \"old fashioned people\" believed that the stars in the night sky represented the dead, and notes how in the Pyramid Texts, the Royal deceased were also thought to be stars. The practice in Omm Seti's time of not cutting hair or shaving as a sign of mourning is also echoed in ancient Egypt.\n\nThough it doesn't form part of official Islamic teaching, she noted the widespread belief amongst modern Egyptians, educated and uneducated, that each human had a qarina, a spiritual component which is separate from the soul, and she compared this with the ancient Egyptian belief in a person's Ka. Ancient Egyptians believed that the shadow of a person was an intrinsic part of human make-up, and Omm Sety noted that the peasants of modern Egypt held similar beliefs and treated the shadow with caution.\n\nShe compared the modern Egyptian belief in Afrits (demonic beings who appear upside-down) with the demonic upside-down beings who appear in the Pyramid Texts. Ancient Egyptians believed in Heka, \"magic,\" and used protective amulets with spells written on them. She compared this with modern practices, performed by poor sellers in market squares, in which verses of the Koran are inscribed on, or tucked into, amulets.\n\nBoth ancient and modern Egyptians commonly believed in spiritual possession and practised techniques for freeing the victim. Examples survive from ancient times showing how a statue of a god, propitiated with offerings, brought the release of a possessed person. In modern times the person who presides over such a ritual is called a shaykh and, similar to ancient practices, offerings are made to the spirit which has taken up residence in the person. An alternative way is a ceremony called the butadjiyya, in which words are recited from the Quaran with the patient immersed in the smoke of incense. A Christian method involves a pilgrimage to a Coptic Church at Mit Damsis. After ten days without washing it is hoped that St. George will appear and pierce the patient's foot from which the demon will depart.\n\nOmm Sety believed in the curative powers of water from certain holy places. She would heal herself by jumping into the sacred pool in the Osireion fully clothed. Friends report how she not only healed herself but others using this method. A baby brought to her by distraught parents because of breathing difficulties recovered after using water from the Osireion. Omm Sety reported that she no longer needed glasses, was cured of arthritis and appendicitis using the waters of the Osireion.\n\nAlong with Kent Weeks, she was interested in and very knowledgeable on the subject of folk medicine. He notes that treatments used today can be traced back through ancient Egyptian texts which associate the particular trees used with goddesses such as Hathor and Isis. Omm Seti recorded that long after the conversion of Egypt to Islam, the power of the \"old gods\" was still recognised. Al-Maqrizi recorded that after a fanatical shaykh disfigured the face of the Sphinx the cultivated land around Giza was invaded and covered with sand. Unlike the gods associated with fertility, she noted the fear inspired in some modern Egyptians by a statue of the goddess Sekhmet even though they were unaware of the Ancient Egyptian accounts associating her with the destruction of mankind.\n\nA common belief amongst village people relates to a \"bogeyman\" and \"terrorist,\" called Ba Bah, and compares with the obscure ancient Egyptian god Bwbi who similarly invoked terror. Villagers from the town of Arabet Abydos reported occasionally seeing a \"large golden boat\" floating upon a one-time lake. Omm Sety noted that the villagers were ignorant of the ancient Egyptian mystery play, once enacted at Abydos, involving a Neshmet boat. The villagers, obliviously, observed the apparition where there had once been a sacred lake.\n\nPopular customs associated with Easter, observed by both Copts and Muslims, were considered by her to probably originate in ancient Egypt. On \"Job Wednesday,\" during the week preceding Easter Sunday, a bath is taken and the body scrubbed with a plant, \"Egyptian Amaranath\", called ghabira by the Muslims, and damissa by the Copts. They believe that Job of the Bible was cured from his leprosy by similar means. In the absence of any scriptural authority for this event, she speculates that it is based on the Pyramid texts in which the same plant is used by the King to purify himself.\n\nBetween December and January (the month of Koiak in both ancient Egyptian and Coptic calendars), Muslims and Copts, but mainly the latter, sow small gardens which are thought to bring prosperity to the household when they sprout. Omm Sety believed that this originates with the ancient Egyptian practice of sowing \"Osiris Gardens\" and \"Osiris Beds\" during the month of Kiahk. The sprouting vegetation symbolised resurrection. Andrew Strum notes a similar practice amongst Egyptian Jews, in this case relating to atonement for sin, and also speculates that this has its origins in the Osirian beliefs of ancient Egypt.\n\nOmm Sety detailed many other modern practices transmitted down from ancient times in short articles written between 1969 and 1975. These were edited and published by the Egyptologist Nicole B. Hansen in 2008, under the title \"Omm Sety's Living Egypt: Surviving Folkways from Pharaonic Times,\" with a foreword by Kent Weeks and an introduction by Walter A. Fairservis.\n\nOn reaching the age of sixty in 1964, Omm Sety was faced with mandatory retirement by the Antiquities Department and advised to seek part-time work in Cairo. She went to Cairo, but only stayed one day before returning to Abydos. The Antiquities Department decided to make an exception to their retirement age rules and allowed her to continue her work at Abydos for a further five years, until she retired in 1969. Her pension of $30 per month was supplemented by needlework sold to friends and tourists, who also brought gifts of clothes, food, and reading materials.\n\nShe began work as a part-time consultant for the Antiquities Department, guiding tourists around the Temple of Seti and explaining the symbolism of the painted wall scenes. In 1972, she suffered a mild heart attack and in the aftermath decided to sell her old house and move into a zareba (a ramshackle single room made of reeds). Ahmed Soliman, the son of the onetime keeper of the Temple of Seti, built a simple mudbrick house adjacent to his family home where Omm Sety moved and lived as part of the Soliman family. She reported in her diary that on first moving into her new home, Seti I appeared and carried out a ritual that consecrated the habitation, bowing reverently towards small statues of Osiris and Isis she kept in a small shrine-niche.\n\nDuring this visit Seti described the one and only time he saw the god Set, his namesake. As a prelude to meeting Set he fasted for ten days before entering the Chapel of the Great Strength, where the god appeared with \"a beauty that cannot be described\". On sensing that he was the spirit of all that was cruel and evil, Seti fled to the sound of mocking laughter from the god, never to serve Set again. He counselled that \"one should not serve an evil being, even if it appears to have a good or useful attribute or function.\" Seti made several visits during the following weeks, during which he gave his opinion of the Greek story of Atlantis (a Cretan had once told him that the islands of the Aegean were the tops of mountains from a great land that had sunk into the Mediterranean) and the origins of Osiris (\"our Lord came from Amenti, whence he returned\").\n\nOmm Seti got to know all the leading Egyptologists of her day during her stay in Abydos. Lanny Bell and William Murnane from Chicago House recalled going \"up to Abydos to see Omm Sety, have tea in her place\" and then view the temples with her. John Romer recalled taking a bottle of vodka to her home and Omm Sety having fun telling the slightly more ribald stories of the gods and goddesses.\n\nShe spoke of Rameses II, the son of Seti I, whom she always saw as a teenager, as when Bentreshyt first knew him. She regarded him, in common with other Egyptologists, as \"the most slandered of all the pharaohs\" because of biblically derived accounts describing him as the Pharaoh of the Oppression and the slaughterer of baby boys, traits which are contradicted by contemporary records. Kenneth Kitchen, an expert on this period, considered her \"a true Ramesside\". He said that there was \"a certain truth in her familial approach\" and that she \"came to all sorts of perfectly sensible conclusions about the actual, objective material of the Sety Temple.\"\n\nNicholas Kendall of the National Film Board of Canada visited Egypt in 1979 to make a documentary, \"The Lost Pharaoh: The Search for Akhenaten\". Donald Redford, who had led a team that recently unearthed material relating to the reign of Akhenaten, asked Omm Sety to appear in the film. She, in common with other Egytologists, didn't regard the king as a romantic idealist dedicated to a universal god, but a \"one-track minded, authoritarian iconoclast who impaled captives and deported populations.\"\n\nIn October 1980, Julia Cave and a team from the BBC arrived in Abydos to film the documentary \"Omm Sety and Her Egypt\". Featuring interviews with Egyptologists T. G. H. James and Rosalie David, it described Abydos and the excavations that had been undertaken. It had extensive input from Omm Sety, who used crutches due to her deteriorating health. The documentary was broadcast on BBC 2 in May 1981. \"The Times\" wrote of the documentary: \"An incredulous smile froze on my lips as I watched the Chronicle film Omm Sety and Her Egypt. Could I be absolutely positive it was all a lot of eyewash? Of course I couldn't. And neither will you be able to. In any case, it makes marvellous television.\" At the time the BBC were recording their documentary, the American producer Miriam Birch asked Omm Sety to appear, along with Egyptologists Kent Weeks and Lanny Bell, in a documentary that National Geographic Channel was filming, \"Egypt: Quest for Eternity\". It concentrated on Rameses II, the son of Seti I. Shooting took place in March 1981, coinciding with Omm Sety's seventy-seventh birthday party at Chicago House, which was filmed. She was in a lot of pain but full of good cheer, and the film crew carried her up to the Temple of Seti for filming. This was to be her last visit to the shrine in which she believed she had served as a priestess 3,000 years before.\n\nOmm Seti had once said \"Death holds no terror for me...I'll just do my best to get through the Judgment. I'm going to come before Osiris, who will probably give me a few dirty looks because I know I've committed some things I shouldn't have.\" Because the Muslims and Christians wouldn't let \"a heathen\" be buried in their graveyards, Omm Sety built her own underground tomb decorated with a false door. Through this door the Ka was believed to travel between this world and the next, and it was engraved with an offering prayer in conformance with ancient beliefs. The staff of Chicago House gave her an imitation Shawabti figurine to place in the tomb. On 10 April 1981 she gave away her two cats as her condition deteriorated. On 15 April she received a letter from Olivia Robertson confirming that Omm Sety had been enrolled in the Fellowship of Isis, an interfaith spiritual movement focused on the goddess, on 23 March. On 21 April 1981 Omm Sety died in Abydos. The local health authority refused to allow her to be buried in the tomb she had constructed, so she was interred in an unmarked grave, facing the west, in the desert outside a Coptic cemetery.\n\nIn the early 1970s, shortly after Nasser's death, Omm Sety disclosed that she believed she knew the location of Nefertiti's tomb, but showed some reluctance in disclosing its \"most unlikely place\" because Seti I didn't like Akhenaten for his attempt to suppress traditional Egyptian religious practices. \"We don't want anything more of this family to be known.\" She described the location of the tomb as being close to Tutankhamun's, which was counter to the then-prevailing opinion that no more new tombs would be found in the Valley of the Kings. In 1998 the ARPT group led by Nicholas Reeves began exploring in the area of Tutankhamun's tomb, based on two anomalies found during a sonar sounding in 1976. During the dig two undisturbed seals of the 20th dynasty scribe Wen-nefer, a well-known person whose seal has been found on many Valley tombs, were discovered. A radar scan in 2000 produced evidence of two empty chambers, but the work was halted pending an investigation into the theft of antiquities. In 2006 Otto Shaden, on a completely unrelated dig, accidentally burst into one of the \"anomalies\" (later numbered KV63), which contained particularly fine examples of mummification supplies used for a royal burial, presumably nearby. Reeves' opinion is that the second \"anomaly\" is likely to be an undisturbed tomb. In August 2015 a new paper was published by the egyptologist Nicholas Reeves, likely confirming the finding.\n\nWhile the general public tend to focus on the beauty of ancient Egyptian artefacts, scholars highly value texts which reveal more about history and religious beliefs. Since Edgar Cayce, a clairvoyant of Presbyterian background, asserted while in a trance state that a Hall of Records was to be found in the area of the Sphinx, there have been repeated attempts to find its supposed location. In 1973 Omm Sety recalled asking Seti I about these Halls of Records. He replied that every temple had a book repository (\"Per-Medjat\"), but that the one attached to the Temple of Amun-Ra in Luxor contained all the important documents \"from the time of the Ancestors,\" including those that survived the political upheaval at the end of the 6th dynasty. In 1952 Omm Sety translated for Abdul Kader inscriptions from Ram statues he had uncovered from the temple at Luxor. They had been found in the area where Seti located the Hall of Records. Contrary to normal practice for this type of statue, there was no writing on the back, suggesting that they had once been placed against an otherwise unknown wall or building. Based on Seti's description and the location of the Rams, both she and Dr. Zeini believed that the Hall of Records is likely to be located under the modern building which houses the Arab Socialist League.\n\nAccording to the late John A. Wilson, head of the Oriental Institute, and called the \"dean of American Egyptology\" by contemporaries, Omm Sety deserved to be treated as \"a responsible scholar.\" She was a source for modern scholarship seeking to understand how traditional ancient religious practices have survived into modern times, as \"folk customs\" practiced by modern Egyptians Copts and Muslims. Unlike other people who claimed to be reincarnated figures from ancient Egypt, she was treated with respect by Egyptologists, and whilst none publicly subscribed to the phenomena she reported, none doubted her sincerity and many have used her observations of past and present Egypt as reliable source material.\n\nKent Weeks wrote that scholars have \"never doubted the accuracy of Omm Sety's field observations. As an ethnographer, a participant-observer of modern Egyptian village life, Omm Sety has had few equals. Her studies easily hold their own next to the works of Lane, Blackman, Henein, and others who have examined Egypt's long and fascinating cultural traditions.\"\n\nEgyptologists who knew Omm Sety were impressed by her knowledge of ancient Egypt. Klaus Baer of the Oriental Institute commented that \"she had visions and worshipped the ancient Egyptian gods. But she understood the methods and standards of scholarship, which is usually not the case with nuts,\" nor did she \"desire to convert anyone.\" Omm Sety was impressed by Hermann Junker, \"one of the elders of 20th century archaeology,\" who had taught Selim Hassan. He advocated a more honest approach to the study of ancient Egyptian religion, believing that \"nobody had made a real effort to go deeply enough into it.\" She admired his open-mindedness, especially since Junker was also a Catholic priest. One noted Egyptologist, who didn't wish to be named, commented \"I was deeply shocked when, one night, I attended a party given by Dr. Ahmed Fakhry behind the Great Pyramid...and there under the full moon was Dorothy Eady belly dancing! I couldn't believe my eyes!\" William Murnane of the Oriental Institute recalled \"It was always a pleasure to be with her and listen to whatever she said...you really couldn't take her anything but seriously.\"\n\nKenneth Kitchen, author of the seven-volume \"Ramesside Inscriptions,\" described Omm Sety as a \"true Ramesside\" who \"came to all sorts of conclusions about the actual objective material of the Sety Temple – which may have also coincided with things that she felt she knew some other way...and that paid dividends. Donald Redford invited Omm Sety to appear in the documentary \"The Lost Pharaoh,\" in which she gives her description of Akhenaton, including a negative view of the religious revolution he attempted (comparing him to the Ayatollah Khomeini – \"a fanatic\"), a viewpoint broadly shared by scholars such as Seton-Williams and Redford.\n\nJohn A. Wilson of the Oriental Institute of Chicago praised her book \"Abydos, Holy city of Ancient Egypt\" for its \"comprehensive coverage of every ancient element in Abydos\". During a visit to the Great Pyramid by a Japanese team with sophisticated sensing equipment, one English Egyptologist, with nods of approval from others, said \"If Omm Sety were still here I'd take her word for where things can be found, any day, over the most-state-of-the-art equipment out there.\" William Simpson, Professor of Egyptology at Yale, considered Omm Sety to be a \"delightful person\" and thought that \"a great many people in Egypt took advantage of her because she more or less traded her knowledge of ancient Egypt by writing or helping people out by doing drafting for them for a pittance.\" Dr. Labib Habachi, one of \"two leading Egyptian archaeologists of his day\" and a great admirer of Dorothy Eady's work, claimed that she was a ghost writer.\n\nJames P. Allen commented \"Sometimes you weren't sure whether Omm Sety wasn't pulling your leg. Not that she was a phoney in what she said or believed – she was absolutely not a con artist – but she knew that some people looked on her as a crackpot, so she kind of fed into that notion and let you go either way with it...She believed enough to make it spooky, and it made you doubt your own sense of reality sometimes.\" Barbara Lesko wrote, \"She was a great help to Egyptian scholars, especially Hassan and Fakhry, correcting their English and writing English language articles for others. So this poorly educated Englishwoman developed in Egypt into a first rate draughtswoman and prolific and talented writer who, even under her own name, produced articles, essays, monographs and books of great range, wit and substance.\" William Golding wrote of the Egyptologists he met in his travels through Egypt in the 1980s who were \"as well disposed to the Mystery as any child could have wished.\" When \"the question arose of a dear lady who believed herself to have been a priestess of a particular temple, they did not dismiss her as a crackpot but agreed that \"she had something\".\"\n\nCarl Sagan considered Omm Sety as \"a lively, intelligent, dedicated woman who made real contributions to Egyptology. This is true whether her belief in reincarnation is fact or fantasy.\" He viewed such phenomena as being rooted in fear of death and that humankind has commonly sought reassurance in some form of afterlife. He pointed out that there was no independent record, other than her own accounts, to verify what she claimed. In his opinion, whilst \"functioning soundly and constructively in most aspects of her adult life\" she \"nevertheless carried strong childhood, adolescent fantasies\" into adulthood. A psychiatrist who specialized in adolescent behaviour speculated that Dorothy Eady's fall down stairs as a child may have resulted in damage to the locus ceruleus, which could have resulted in a dislocation from her surroundings resulting in the embracement of an obsession. The psychologist Michael Gruber noted that Omm Sety lived \"a functional life in so-called everyday reality\", including work in Egyptology, embroidery, making jewellery and socializing with people. Her reported experiences enriched her life so much that \"it would be an extreme loss to have seen her simply as someone who was hallucinating\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53299248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53299248", "title": "Emily Cecil, Marchioness of Salisbury", "text": "Emily Cecil, Marchioness of Salisbury\n\nMary Amelia 'Emily Mary' Cecil, Marchioness of Salisbury (16 August 1750 – 22 November 1835), was an English aristocrat, Tory political hostess and sportswoman.\n\nThe marchioness's eccentricity was frequently remarked upon, in particular her style of dress; her clothes were often of her own design.\n\nEmily Cecil was born in Dublin as Mary Amelia Hill, the daughter of Wills Hill, 2nd Viscount Hillsborough (later the first Marquess of Downshire), and his first wife, Margaretta Fitzgerald (1729–1766), sister of James FitzGerald, 1st Duke of Leinster. Her father was the Secretary of State for the Colonies under Lord North from 1768 to 1772, a critical period leading toward the American War of Independence.\n\nEmily married James Cecil, Viscount Cranborne, the heir of James Cecil, 6th Earl of Salisbury, on 2 December 1773. After marriage, she became a prominent political hostess of the Tory party.\n\nThe couple had four children:\n\nFollowing her husband's death, Lady Salisbury continued to live with her son and grandchildren at Hatfield House, Hertfordshire, where she died in a fire on 27 November 1835 at the age of eighty-five. It was thought that feathers in her hat caught alight when she was at her writing-desk and caused the conflagration. The fire destroyed the west wing of the house and only a few bones of hers were found.\n"}
{"id": "3744601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3744601", "title": "Flight from Death", "text": "Flight from Death\n\nFlight from Death (2003) is a documentary film that investigates the relationship of human violence to fear of death, as related to subconscious influences. The film describes death anxiety as a possible root cause of many human behaviors on a psychological, spiritual, and cultural level. It was directed by Patrick Shen, produced by Greg Bennick, and narrated by Gabriel Byrne.\n\nThe film's purpose is to investigate humankind's relationship with death, and is heavily influenced by the views of cultural anthropologist Ernest Becker. In addition to interviews with a number of contemporary philosophers, psychiatrists and teachers such as Sam Keen, Robert Jay Lifton, Irvin Yalom, Merlyn Mowrey and Daniel Liechty, the film introduces the viewer to a group of social psychologists, who conduct research in support of what they call terror management theory (terror in this case not being terrorism, but rather emotional and psychological reaction to mortality awareness). Over the last twenty-five years, proponents of terror management theory have conducted over 300 laboratory studies demonstrating that subtle reminders of death on a subconscious level motivates a statistically significant number of subjects to exhibit biased and xenophobic type behaviors, such as gravitating toward those who they perceive as culturally similar to themselves and holding higher negative feelings and judgments toward those they perceive as culturally dissimilar to themselves.\n\nIn a recent study, the research team discovered that reminding Palestinians of their own death through subconscious means inspired conscious shifts in opinion towards wanting to become suicide bombers. This subconscious death reminder inspired the subjects to act aggressively against differing others, even at the risk of losing their own lives. Terror is the result of deep psychological forces; the research described in \"Flight from Death\" suggests that these forces can be explained, yielding information about personal anxiety and the motivation of social violence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "157702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157702", "title": "Fulk, King of Jerusalem", "text": "Fulk, King of Jerusalem\n\nFulk (, or \"Foulques\"; c. 1089/92 – 13 November 1143), also known as Fulk the Younger, was the Count of Anjou (as Fulk V) from 1109 to 1129 and the King of Jerusalem from 1131 to his death. During his reign, the Kingdom of Jerusalem reached its largest territorial extent.\n\nFulk was born at Angers, between 1089 and 1092, the son of Count Fulk IV of Anjou and Bertrade de Montfort. In 1092, Bertrade deserted her husband and bigamously married King Philip I of France.\n\nHe became count of Anjou upon his father's death in 1109. In the next year, he married Ermengarde of Maine, cementing Angevin control over the County of Maine.\n\nHe was originally an opponent of King Henry I of England and a supporter of King Louis VI of France, but in 1118 or 1119 he had allied with Henry when he arranged for his daughter Matilda to marry Henry's son and heir, William Adelin. Fulk went on crusade in 1119 or 1120, and became attached to the Knights Templar (Orderic Vitalis). He returned, late in 1121, after which he began to subsidize the Templars, maintaining two knights in the Holy Land for a year. Much later, Henry arranged for his daughter Matilda to marry Fulk's son Geoffrey of Anjou, which she did in 1127 or 1128.\n\nBy 1127 Fulk was preparing to return to Anjou when he received an embassy from King Baldwin II of Jerusalem. Baldwin II had no male heirs but had already designated his daughter Melisende to succeed him. Baldwin II wanted to safeguard his daughter's inheritance by marrying her to a powerful lord. Fulk was a wealthy crusader and experienced military commander, and a widower. His experience in the field would prove invaluable in a frontier state always in the grip of war.\n\nHowever, Fulk held out for better terms than mere consort of the Queen; he wanted to be king alongside Melisende. Baldwin II, reflecting on Fulk's fortune and military exploits, acquiesced. Fulk abdicated his county seat of Anjou to his son Geoffrey and left for Jerusalem, where he married Melisende on 2 June 1129. Later Baldwin II bolstered Melisende's position in the kingdom by making her sole guardian of her son by Fulk, Baldwin III, born in 1130.\n\nFulk and Melisende became joint rulers of Jerusalem in 1131 with Baldwin II's death. From the start Fulk assumed sole control of the government, excluding Melisende altogether. He favored fellow countrymen from Anjou to the native nobility. The other crusader states to the north feared that Fulk would attempt to impose the suzerainty of Jerusalem over them, as Baldwin II had done; but as Fulk was far less powerful than his deceased father-in-law, the northern states rejected his authority. Melisende's sister Alice of Antioch, exiled from the Principality by Baldwin II, took control of Antioch once more after the death of her father. She allied with Pons of Tripoli and Joscelin II of Edessa to prevent Fulk from marching north in 1132; Fulk and Pons fought a brief battle before peace was made and Alice was exiled again.\n\nIn Jerusalem as well, Fulk was resented by the second generation of Jerusalem Christians who had grown up there since the First Crusade. These \"natives\" focused on Melisende's cousin, the popular Hugh II of Le Puiset, count of Jaffa, who was devotedly loyal to the Queen. Fulk saw Hugh as a rival, and it did not help matters when Hugh's own stepson accused him of disloyalty. In 1134, in order to expose Hugh, Fulk accused him of infidelity with Melisende. Hugh rebelled in protest. Hugh secured himself to Jaffa, and allied himself with the Muslims of Ascalon. He was able to defeat the army set against him by Fulk, but this situation could not hold. The Patriarch interceded in the conflict, perhaps at the behest of Melisende. Fulk agreed to peace and Hugh was exiled from the kingdom for three years, a lenient sentence.\n\nHowever, an assassination attempt was made against Hugh. Fulk, or his supporters, were commonly believed responsible, though direct proof never surfaced. The scandal was all that was needed for the queen's party to take over the government in what amounted to a palace coup. Author and historian Bernard Hamilton wrote that Fulk's supporters \"went in terror of their lives\" in the palace. Contemporary author and historian William of Tyre wrote of Fulk \"he never attempted to take the initiative, even in trivial matters, without (Melisende's) consent\". The result was that Melisende held direct and unquestioned control over the government from 1136 onwards. Sometime before 1136 Fulk reconciled with his wife, and a second son, Amalric was born.\n\nJerusalem's northern border was of great concern. Fulk had been appointed regent of the Principality of Antioch by Baldwin II. As regent he had Raymund of Poitou marry the infant Constance of Antioch, daughter of Bohemund II and Alice of Antioch, and niece to Melisende. However, the greatest concern during Fulk's reign was the rise of Atabeg Zengi of Mosul.\n\nIn 1137 Fulk was defeated in battle near Baarin but allied with Mu'in ad-Din Unur, the vizier of Damascus. Damascus was also threatened by Zengi. Fulk captured the fort of Banias, to the north of Lake Tiberias and thus secured the northern frontier.\n\nFulk also strengthened the kingdom's southern border. His butler Paganus built the fortress of Kerak to the east of the Dead Sea, and to help give the kingdom access to the Red Sea, Fulk had Blanchegarde, Ibelin, and other forts built in the south-west to overpower the Egyptian fortress at Ascalon. This city was a base from which the Egyptian Fatimids launched frequent raids on the Kingdom of Jerusalem and Fulk sought to neutralise this threat.\n\nIn 1137 and 1142, Byzantine emperor John II Comnenus arrived in Syria attempting to impose Byzantine control over the crusader states. John's intention of making a pilgrimage, accompanied by his impressive army, to Jerusalem alarmed Fulk, who wrote to John pointing out that his kingdom was poor and could not support the passage of a large army. This lukewarm response dissuaded John from carrying through his intention, and he postponed his pilgrimage. John died before he could make good his proposed journey to Jerusalem.\n\nIn 1143, while the king and queen were in Acre, Fulk was killed in a hunting accident. His horse stumbled, fell, and Fulk's skull was crushed by the saddle, \"and his brains gushed forth from both ears and nostrils\", as William of Tyre describes. He was carried back to Acre, where he lay unconscious for three days before he died. He was buried in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem. Though their marriage started in conflict, Melisende mourned for him privately as well as publicly. Fulk was survived by his son Geoffrey of Anjou by his first wife, and Baldwin III and Amalric I by Melisende.\n\nAccording to William, Fulk was \"\"a ruddy man, like David... faithful and gentle, affable and kind... an experienced warrior full of patience and wisdom in military affairs\".\" His chief fault was an inability to remember names and faces.\n\nWilliam of Tyre described Fulk as a capable soldier and able politician, but observed that Fulk did not adequately attend to the defense of the crusader states to the north. Ibn al-Qalanisi (who calls him \"al-Kund Anjur\", an Arabic rendering of \"Count of Anjou\") says that \"he was not sound in his judgment nor was he successful in his administration.\" The Zengids continued their march on the crusader states, culminating in the fall of the County of Edessa in 1144, which led to the Second Crusade (see Siege of Edessa).\n\nIn 1110, Fulk married Ermengarde of Maine (died 1126), the daughter of Elias I of Maine. Their four children were:\n\nHis second wife was Melisende, Queen of Jerusalem\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18148799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18148799", "title": "Funisitis", "text": "Funisitis\n\nFunisitis is inflammation of the connective tissue of the umbilical cord, which may cause abortion.\n\nIt is typically preceded by vasculitis of the umbilical artery or veins and may be the result of chorioamnionitis.\n\nNecrotizing funisitis is a very severe form of funisitis in which the tissue that makes-up the umbilical cord starts to die. It is associated with congenital syphilis. It is now rare, and seen almost exclusively in the preterm infant. The majority of affected infants are stillborn, or die within a few weeks of birth.\n\n"}
{"id": "1582641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1582641", "title": "Gorosaurus", "text": "Gorosaurus\n\nIn \"King Kong Escapes\", Gorosaurus is an inhabitant of Mondo Island, the film's primary setting. It attacks and attempts to devour the leading female character, Susan Watson. King Kong arrives to save her and fights Gorosaurus. King Kong eventually breaks Gorosaurus' jaws.\n\nIn the film \"All Monsters Attack\", Gorosaurus makes a brief appearance in a young boy's dreams.\n\nIn the film \"Godzilla vs. Gigan\", Gorosaurus is briefly seen living on Monster Island.\n\nIn \"Destroy All Monsters\", Gorosaurus appears on the Ogasawara Islands, in Monsterland. It is an artificially created environment for the monsters of Earth. It lives with other monsters including Godzilla, Mothra, Rodan, Anguirus, Kumonga, Manda, Minilla, Baragon and Varan. A race of aliens called the Kilaaks invades Earth, capturing and establishing mind-control over the monsters. They then release them in cities throughout the world, with Gorosaurus being released in Paris, France (in both the Japanese original and the English dubbed version, Gorosaurus is misidentified as Baragon in the Paris attack). However, the humans retaliate and find a way to break the mind control.\n\nThe Kilaaks then unleash the space dragon King Ghidorah to kill the Earth monsters. Gorosaurus plays a pivotal role in the battle, as it twice brings down Ghidorah (the only monster who is able to do so), the first by pulling on its necks until it falls, heralding the turn of the tide of battle to the Earth monsters' side, and the second when it used its kangaroo kick to knock him over again, as Godzilla, Minilla and Anguirus attack all three of its heads, leaving Ghidorah vulnerable. After killing Ghidorah, Gorosaurus and the other Earth monsters return to Monsterland to live in peace.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "382202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=382202", "title": "Göran Kropp", "text": "Göran Kropp\n\nGöran Kropp (11 December 1966, Jonkoping, Sweden – 30 September 2002, Vantage, Washington, USA) was a Swedish adventurer and mountaineer. He made a solo ascent of Mount Everest without bottled oxygen or Sherpa support in May 1996, for which he travelled by bicycle alone from Sweden and – a part – back.\n\nIn 1972, at the age of 6, Kropp's father took him up Galdhøpiggen, Norway, the highest peak in Scandinavia. After finishing school, he served in the Swedish Parachute Rangers where he trained rigorously and met his future climbing partner Mats Dahlin.\n\nIn 1988, Kropp traveled to climb his first major peak, Lenin Peak (7134 meters high), located on the border between Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan. Kropp and his companions ascended the peak in a record time of 10 days.\n\nIn 1989, Kropp had hopes of climbing Cho Oyu, but he had no permit. Instead, he went to South America and climbed Iliniza Sur (5266 meters), Cotopaxi (5897 meters), Illimani (6300 meters), Huayna Potosi (6095 meters), and Illampu (6520 meters).\n\nIn a 1990 Swedish expedition, he and Danish climber Rafael Jensen climbed Muztagh Tower (7273 meters) in Pakistan. The mountain is one of the most difficult 7000-meter mountains in the Himalayas, and their ascent was the fourth of the mountain.\n\nIn 1991, Kropp climbed Pik Pobeda (7439 meters) in eastern Kyrgyzstan. Together with Mats Dahlin, Kropp made a summit attempt, but Dahlin was forced to cancel his bid because of illness. Kropp continued and reached the top with a severe headache.\n\nIn 1992, Kropp finally obtained permits to climb Cho Oyu. In preparation, he climbed with Dahlin in Chamonix. While climbing the Aiguille Verte, a stone fell from the top of the ridge and hit Dahlin just below the helmet, at the edge of his temple, killing him.\n\nKropp decided to climb Cho Oyu nonetheless, on the grounds that his companion would have preferred that he do so. He drove his Range Rover all the way to Nepal. At the top, Kropp placed Dahlin's ice axe with an image of Dahlin directed towards Mount Everest.\n\nIn 1993, Kropp returned to Karakoram, this time to climb K2. Initially, he planned to participate in a Swedish expedition, but Kropp realized that if he could reach the top before the expedition's other participants, he would become the first Swede and Scandinavian to reach the top. Kropp therefore joined a Slovenian expedition scheduled to climb the mountain before the Swedes. Another reason why he brought forward the date of his climb was that his Range Rover had remained in Pakistan since his Cho Oyu climb the previous year because customs in Iran refused to allow it through.\n\nKropp's Slovenian colleagues had decided however to exclude him from their climbing plans. Kropp settled, instead, to join David Sharman, who hoped to become the first Englishman to come down alive from the top.\n\nDuring the Slovenians' summit bid, a violent storm arose and stranded them at high altitude. Kropp abandoned his climb to save those he could. A week after this incident, he stuck with his British colleague, but Sharman fell, fractured a leg, and went back down. Kropp climbed on and reached the peak solo, without bottled oxygen. On the way down another storm on the mountain marooned Kropp at 8,000 meters above sea level. Kropp made it later to base camp.\n\nMedia interest after the climb proved to be extensive, and Kropp then started his company, Kropp & Adventure AB.\n\nIn 1994, he returned again to Karakoram, accompanied by Andrew Lock and the Swedish climbers Mats Holmgren and Nicolas Gafgo. Their object was Broad Peak, and their goal was a first ascent of the hitherto unclimbed south-southwest ridge, on which several reputable climbers had failed. They also failed and had to turn back to below 7000 metres. Afterwards, they focused on the regular route to the summit, where, on the first attempt Lock, Holmgren, and Kropp reached the foresummit. Kropp made another attempt at the main summit and succeeded after a fast, non-stop solo climb.\n\nFor his 1996 ascent, Kropp left Stockholm on October 16, 1995, on a specially-designed bicycle with of gear and food. He traveled on the bicycle and arrived at Everest Base Camp in April 1996. Following a meeting of all of the Everest expeditions on the mountain at the time, it was agreed that Kropp would attempt to summit first. On May 3, Kropp climbed through thigh-deep snow and reached Everest's South Summit, a point from the summit. However, he decided to turn around because it was too late in the day and if he continued, he would be descending in the dark. While Kropp recovered from the ordeal at base camp, the 1996 Everest Disaster unfolded. He helped bring medicine up the mountain. Three weeks later, on May 23, he again tackled the mountain, this time successfully summitting without extra oxygen support. He then cycled part of the way back home.\n\nHe returned to Everest in 1999 with his girlfriend Renata Chlumska to undertake a cleanup, during which they removed 25 discarded canisters from the mountain. They also successfully summited together.\n\nIn early 2000, Kropp and fellow Swede Ola Skinnarmo attempted to ski unsupported to the North Pole. Kropp had to abandon the expedition due to a frostbitten thumb. During the expedition, he shot a polar bear which had been stalking the two men. This led to accusations in the Swedish tabloid press by writer Jan Guillou that Kropp was a poacher, since shooting polar bears was an inevitable consequence of skiing across the North Pole. Kropp sued for libel and when he lost, decided to move to Seattle.\n\nLater that year, in London, the 1996 Everest expedition leader, Michael Trueman, successfully sued the publisher of Kropp's autobiography for libel. Kropp had mixed Trueman's name up with that of expedition member Mike Burns and thereby made false allegations about Trueman's character. Consequently, the book is banned in the UK.\n\nOn September 30, 2002, Kropp died from head injuries when he fell 18 meters (60 feet) while ascending the Air Guitar route near Frenchman Coulee in Vantage, Washington. While being belayed by Seattle climber Erden Eruç, his protection pulled out from a crack, and the carabiner of the next piece of protection broke. According to Eruç, Kropp died on impact.\n\nBefore his death, Kropp had sponsored the Göran Kropp Bishwa Darshan Primary School in Taptin, Chyangba, Solukhumbu, Nepal, which serves 165 pupils and 8 teachers. A tax-exempt non-profit organization named Around-n-Over, established by Erden Eruç, now aims to create educational and inspirational content for young students based on human powered journeys worthy of Kropp's legacy.\n\nKropp drove a couple of seasons in the Swedish and Nordic Formula Three series. His last race was in 2000. Kropp loved fast sports cars and drove Ferraris and Maseratis privately on the road. Together with von Braun Sports Cars he developed an advanced Ferrari F355 GT car for endurance racing. Only a few test races were made before he died.\n\nAt the starting point of the climbing route Air Guitar at Sunshine Rock outside Seattle on which Kropp has died, climbing partner Erden Eruç, from Seattle, carved into the rock:\n"}
{"id": "1404523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1404523", "title": "Hayflick limit", "text": "Hayflick limit\n\nThe Hayflick limit or Hayflick phenomenon is the number of times a normal human cell population will divide before cell division stops.\n\nThe concept of the Hayflick limit was advanced by American anatomist Leonard Hayflick in 1961, at the Wistar Institute in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, US. Hayflick demonstrated that a normal human fetal cell population will divide between 40 and 60 times in cell culture before entering a senescence phase. This finding refuted the contention by Nobel laureate Alexis Carrel that normal cells are immortal.\n\nEach time a cell undergoes mitosis, the telomeres on the ends of each chromosome shorten slightly. Cell division will cease once telomeres shorten to a critical length. Hayflick interpreted his discovery to be aging at the cellular level. The aging of cell populations appears to correlate with the overall physical aging of an organism.\n\nAustralian Nobel laureate Sir Macfarlane Burnet coined the name \"Hayflick limit\" in his book \"Intrinsic Mutagenesis: A Genetic Approach to Ageing\", published in 1974.\n\nPrior to Leonard Hayflick's discovery, it was believed that vertebrate cells had an unlimited potential to replicate. Alexis Carrel, a Nobel prize-winning surgeon, had stated \"that all cells explanted in culture are immortal, and that the lack of continuous cell replication was due to ignorance on how best to cultivate the cells\". He supported this hypothesis by claiming to have cultivated fibroblasts from chicken hearts and to have kept the culture growing for 34 years. This indicated that cells of vertebrates could continue to divide indefinitely in culture. However, other scientists have been unable to replicate Carrel's results.\n\nCarrel's results are suspected to be due to an error in experimental procedure. To provide required nutrients, embryonic stem cells of chickens may have been re-added to the culture daily. This would have easily allowed the cultivation of new, fresh cells in the culture, so there was not an infinite reproduction of the original cells. If this is true, it has been speculated that Carrel knew about the error, but he never admitted it.\n\nAlso, it has been theorized that the cells Carrel used were young enough to contain pluripotent stem cells, which, if supplied with a supporting telomerase-activation nutrient, would have been capable of staving off replicative senescence, or even possibly reversing it. Cultures not containing telomerase-active pluripotent stem cells would have been populated with telomerase-inactive cells, which would have been subject to the 50 ± 10 mitosis event limit until cellular senescence occurs as described in Hayflick's findings.\n\nHayflick first became suspicious of Carrel's claims while working in a lab at the Wistar Institute. Hayflick noticed that one of his cultures of embryonic human fibroblasts had developed an unusual appearance and that cell division had slowed. Initially, he brushed this aside as an anomaly caused by contamination or technical error. However, he later observed other cell cultures exhibiting similar manifestations. Hayflick checked his research notebook and was surprised to find that the atypical cell cultures had all been cultured to approximately their 40th doubling while younger cultures never exhibited the same problems. Furthermore, conditions were similar between the younger and older cultures he observed—same culture medium, culture containers, and technician. This led him to doubt that the manifestations were due to contamination or technical error.\n\nHayflick next set out to prove that the cessation of normal cell replicative capacity that he observed was not the result of viral contamination, poor culture conditions or some unknown artifact. Hayflick teamed with Paul Moorhead for the definitive experiment to eliminate these as causative factors. As a skilled cytogeneticist, Moorhead was able to distinguish between male and female cells in culture. The experiment proceeded as follows: Hayflick mixed equal numbers of normal human male fibroblasts that had divided many times (cells at the 40th population doubling) with female fibroblasts that had divided fewer times (cells at the 15th population doubling). Unmixed cell populations were kept as controls. After 20 doublings of the mixed culture, only female cells remained. Cell division ceased in the unmixed control cultures at the anticipated times; When the male control culture stopped dividing, only female cells remained in the mixed culture. This suggested that technical errors or contaminating viruses were unlikely explanations as to why cell division ceased in the older cells, and proved that unless the virus or artifact could distinguish between male and female cells (which it could not) then the cessation of normal cell replication was governed by an internal counting mechanism.\n\nThese results disproved Carrel's immortality claims and established the Hayflick limit as a credible biological theory. Unlike Carrel's experiment, Hayflick's have been successfully repeated by other scientists.\n\nHayflick describes three phases in the life of normal cultured cells. At the start of his experiment he named the primary culture \"phase one\". Phase two is defined as the period when cells are proliferating; Hayflick called this the time of \"luxuriant growth\". After months of doubling the cells eventually reach phase three, a phenomenon he named \"senescence\", where cell replication rate slows before halting altogether.\n\nThe Hayflick limit has been found to correlate with the length of the telomeric region at the end of chromosomes. During the process of DNA replication of a chromosome, small segments of DNA within each telomere are unable to be copied and are lost. This occurs due to the uneven nature of DNA replication, where leading and lagging strands are not replicated symmetrically. The telomeric region of DNA does not code for any protein; it is simply a repeated code on the end region of linear eukaryotic chromosomes. After many divisions, the telomeres reach a critical length and the cell becomes senescent. It is at this point that a cell has reached its Hayflick limit.\n\nHayflick was the first to report that only cancer cells are immortal. This could not have been demonstrated until he had demonstrated that only normal cells are mortal. Cellular senescence does not occur in most cancer cells due to expression of an enzyme called telomerase. This enzyme extends telomeres, preventing the telomeres of cancer cells from shortening and giving them infinite replicative potential. A proposed treatment for cancer is the usage of telomerase inhibitors that would prevent the restoration of the telomere, allowing the cell to die like other body cells. On the other hand, telomerase activators might repair or extend the telomeres of healthy cells, thus extending their Hayflick limit but giving the cells cancerous properties. Telomerase activation might also lengthen the telomeres of immune system cells enough to prevent cancerous cells from developing from cells with very short telomeres.\n\nHayflick suggested that his results in which normal cells have a limited replicative capacity may have significance for understanding human aging at the cellular level.\n\nIt has been reported that the limited replicative capability of human fibroblasts observed in culture is far greater than the number of replication events experience by non-stem cells in vivo during a normal postnatal lifespan. In addition, it has been suggested that no inverse correlation exists between the replicative capacity of normal human cell strains and the age of the human donor from which the cells were derived, as previously argued. It is now clear that at least some of these variable results are attributable to the mosaicism of cell replication numbers at different body sites where cells were taken.\n\nComparisons of different species indicate that cellular replicative capacity may correlate primarily with species body mass, but more likely to species lifespan. Thus the limited capacity of cells to replicate in culture may be directly relevant to organismal aging.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1806538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1806538", "title": "Hemoencephalography", "text": "Hemoencephalography\n\nHemoencephalography (HEG) is a relatively new neurofeedback technique within the field of neurotherapy. Neurofeedback, a specific form of biofeedback, is based on the idea that human beings can consciously alter their brain function through training sessions in which they attempt to change the signal generated by their brain and measured via some neurological feedback mechanism. By so doing, participants increase cerebral blood flow to a specified region of the brain, consequently increasing brain activity and performance on tasks involving that region of the brain.\n\nBoth approaches to hemoencephalography, near infrared and passive infrared, are indirect measures of neural activity based on neurovascular coupling. Neurovascular coupling is the mechanism by which cerebral blood flow is matched to metabolic activity. When a region of the cortex is used in a specific cognitive task, neuronal activity in that region increases, consequently increasing local metabolic rate. To keep up with the nutritional and waste removal demands of a higher metabolic rate, cerebral blood flow to the cortical area in use must increase proportionally. Along with the increase in flow, hemoglobin molecules in the blood, which are responsible for the transport and transference of oxygen to tissue throughout the body, must increase the amount of oxygen they deliver to the activated region of the cortex, resulting in a greater local blood oxygenation level. This is also referred to as the haemodynamic response.\n\nDeveloped by the godfather of hemoencephalography, Dr. Hershel Toomim, near infrared hemoencephalography measures changes in the local oxygenation level of the blood. Similar to functional magnetic resonance imaging, which uses changes in the magnetic properties of blood resulting from oxygenation to form an image of brain activity, NIR utilizes the changes in blood translucence resulting from oxygenation to generate a signal that can be consciously manipulated in neurofeedback sessions. At the most basic level, NIR hemoencephalography shines alternating red (660 nm) and near infra-red (850 nm) light on a specified area of the brain, usually through the forehead. While the skull is largely translucent to these wavelengths of light, blood is not. The red light is used as a probe, while the infrared light provides a relatively stable baseline for comparison. Photoelectric cells in a spectrophotometer device worn on the forehead measure the amount of each wavelength of light reflected by cerebral blood flow in the activated cortical tissue and send the data to a computer, which then calculates the ratio of red to infrared light and translates it into a visual signal of corresponding to oxygenation level on a graphical interface the patient can see. The key nutrient monitored by NIR is oxygen. In NIR, as the ratio of oxygenated hemoglobin (HbO) to deoxygenated hemoglobin (Hb) increases, the blood becomes less and less translucent and scatters more of the red light, instead of absorbing it. In contrast, the amount of infrared light scattered by the blood is largely impermeable to changes in the oxygenation level of hemoglobin.\n\nDeveloped by Dr. Jeffrey Carmen, a privately practicing psychologist in New York, passive infrared HEG is a marriage of the classic hemoencephalography principles employed by Toomim and a technique known as thermoscopy. PIR uses a sensor similar to the NIR sensor to detect light from a narrow band of the infrared spectrum that corresponds to the amount of heat being generated by an active brain region, as well as the local blood oxygenation level. The heat detected by PIR is proportional to the amount of sugar being burned to maintain the increased metabolic rate necessary to fuel elevated neuronal activity. PIR has a poorer resolution than NIR and this treatment typically focuses on more global increases in cerebral blood flow.\n\nThe first true instance of neurofeedback occurred in 1963, when University of Chicago professor Joseph Kamiya trained a volunteer to recognize and alter alpha brain wave activity. Just five years later, Barry Sterman conducted a revolutionary study on cats at the behest of NASA that proved that cats trained to consciously alter their sensorimotor rhythm were resistant to doses of hydrazine that typically induce seizures. This finding was applied to humans in 1971 when Sterman trained an epileptic to control her seizures through a combination of sensorimotor rhythm and EEG neurotherapy to the extent that she obtained a driver's license after only three months of treatment. Around the same time Hershel Toomim was founding Toomim Biofeedback Laboratories and Biocomp Research Institute on the basis of a device known as the Alpha Pacer that measured brain waves. After decades of work with various biofeedback mechanisms, Toomim accidentally stumbled upon conscious control of cerebral blood flow in 1994. He developed a device specific to this measure that he called a Near Infrared Spectrophotometry Hemencephalography system, coining the term \"hemoencephalography\", in 1997. A clinician user of NIR HEG, Jeffrey Carmen, adapted Toomim's system for migraines in 2002 by integrating peripheral thermal biofeedback into the design. Since then, both techniques have been applied to numerous disorders of frontal and prefrontal lobe function. Sherrill, R. (2004).\n\nPrior to training with the HEG device, patients are given a standardized pre test, most often the Test of Variables of Attention (TOVA), to assess baseline cognitive functioning. Patient progress will be tracked using the same measure at the beginning and end of every neurotherapy session. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) assessments may also be conducted pre and post treatment, depending on the patient's disorder. Training sessions are typically 45 minutes to an hour in length, with intermittent breaks. At the outset, all sessions are performed at a certified neurotherapy provider's clinic (though some at-home options are now available) and begin 2-3 times weekly in frequency. Depending on the patient, training may last from a couple of months to a couple of years. High variability in red light activity (large range from low to high output) is typically characteristic of people with problems of the prefrontal cortex. Low variability is associated with more normal functioning. The ratio of red/infrared light refraction is displayed as a visual signal on a computer monitor and may also be translated into an auditory signal in which higher pitch corresponds to greater oxygenation. During a HEG training session patients attempt to increase the signal generated by the HEG sensor. Progress is measured by reduced variability.\n\nCurrently, the most popular neurotherapy techniques utilize electroencephalography (EEG), which measures electrical brain activity rather than blood flow. Proponents of hemoencephalography maintain that HEG has advantages over EEG, namely:\n\nThe main practical limitations of HEG as compared to EEG are:\n\nOther disadvantages of HEG mirror current frustrations with fMRI and stem from the indirect nature of both techniques and reliance on individual patterns of cerebral blood flow:\n\nMost research in HEG has focused on disorders of the prefrontal cortex (PFC), the cortical region directly behind the forehead that controls high level executive functions such as planning, judgment, emotional regulation, inhibition, organization, and cause and effect determination. The prefrontal cortex is thought essential for all goal-directed and socially-mediated behavior. The PFC is an ideal target for HEG due to both its location on the scalp (behind the forehead, where there is no hair to disrupt the scattering of the red and infrared light) and the susceptibility of its primary functions to learning.\n\nResearch with PIR has focused almost exclusively on alleviating tension headaches and migraines. A four-year study of 100 chronic migraine sufferers found that after as few as six 30-minute training sessions, 90% of patients reported significant improvements with their migraines. Another study conducted combined the biofeedback measures of EEG, hemoencephalography and thermal handwarming during thrice weekly sessions for 14 months. 70% of sufferers saw a 50% or more reduction in their migraines following combined neurotherapy and drug treatment, as opposed to 50% undergoing only traditional drug therapy.\n\nThe term autism encompasses a wide range of syndromes, such as Rett disorder, pervasive developmental disorder (PDD) and Asperger's syndrome, that are collectively referred to as autism spectrum disorders (ASD). All ASD sufferers exhibit impaired understanding and performance of social and communicative skills, impulsivity, difficulties with attention and some mode of obsessive behavior. Many patients with ASD have normal to above normal intelligence, but exhibit wildly abnormal EEG readings, which combined with symptoms synonymous with impaired executive control make them prime candidates for pre-frontal centric neurotherapy. The myriad of studies exploring the potency of neurotherapy as a treatment for ASD have primarily involved EEG and QEEG, but one recent study investigated the efficacy of both NIR and PIR training against a QEEG only control group and found that, according to parental reports, those in both HEG groups experienced a more than 50% decrease in symptoms. These reports were supported by decreased EEG variability and improvements on measures of neurobiological and neuropsychological functioning. NIR was found to have a greater impact on attention, while PIR had greater efficacy in the realms of emotional regulation and social interactions.\n\nWith many symptoms reminiscent of ASD, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) has also been a focus of HEG research. In one typical case study, an adolescent with ADHD\npresented with highly abnormal QEEG readings and attentional scores on neuropsychological tests. After only ten biweekly HEG training sessions, he rendered a completely normal QEEG reading and significantly improved scores on attentional measures. Notable about this research is that the improvements persisted eighteen months post-treatment, allowing the patient to greatly reduce the drug therapy necessary for him to function successfully in school and offering a quick and relatively cheap treatment alternative for school systems and parents of children with ADD/ADHD.\n\nA large group of researchers headed up by Dr. Hershel Toomim and his wife Marjorie have repeatedly found that NIR HEG training can consciously enhance regional cerebral oxygenation to specific areas of the brain and result in increased performance on cognitive tasks. It is widely known that regular cardiovascular exercise results in increased cerebral blood flow due to increased vascularization of the capillaries feeding neuronal tissue. Toomim, Mize, Kwong \"et al.\" found that after only ten 30-minute sessions of HEG brain exercise training, participants with various neurological disorders showed increases in attention and decreases in impulsivity to within normal levels. A subset of participants also experienced increases in cerebral vascularization similar to those witnessed upon increasing physical activity. More importantly, degree of improvement was found to be reliably related to the initial TOVA score of each participant, with the lowest initial TOVA scores exhibiting the greatest improvement.\n\nIn addition, HEG has shown promise at alleviating depression, stress and chronic anxiety. There is also work done by Dr. Luis Gaviria at Las Americas Hospital, where neurosurgery patients were given 20 minutes HEG sessions, as part of their rehabilitation process. These patients showed improvement in reconnecting with their loved ones, compared to their control counterparts.\n"}
{"id": "25281906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25281906", "title": "IS PATH WARM?", "text": "IS PATH WARM?\n\nIS PATH WARM? is an acronym utilized as a mnemonic device. It was created by the American Association of Suicidology to help counselors and the general public \"remember the warning signs of suicide.\"\n\nReviews from the psychiatric literature regarding the \"IS PATH WARM\" mnemonic have been mixed. Several studies have confirmed that some of the acronym's warning signs are associated with suicidal ideation. A study compared 215 postings on an online \"suicide forum\" with 94 postings on a \"self-injury forum.\" They found that posters in the 'suicide forum' were more likely than those in the 'self-injury forum' to express suicidal ideation, purposelessness, feeling trapped, and social withdrawal. (However, they were less likely than those in the self-injury forum to express recklessness.) The study concluded that individuals who exhibit \"IS PATH WARM\" warning signs were more likely to have suicidal ideation.\n\nHowever, the psychiatric literature has been critical of the \"IS PATH WARM\" mnemonic's value in predicting suicidal \"behavior\". A white paper prepared for the United States Fire Service's \"Suicide and Depression Summit\" stated that the acronym's \"utility has been hampered by both limited sensitivity and weak specificity.\" A 2011 study was also critical of \"IS PATH WARM\"'s validity, finding that none of the ten warning signs were able to predict completed suicides.\n\nAccording to a review of school-based suicide prevention, an additional concern is that the IS PATH WARM warning signs were based on risk factors for suicide that appear across the lifespan. Having not been evaluated independently for youth, the author writes, the acronym's value in predicting suicidal behavior in children is uncertain.\n\nIn creating the \"IS PATH WARM\" mnemonic, one of the American Association of Suicidology's stated goals was to aid the general public in learning and recalling the warning signs of suicide. The Society's \"IS PATH WARM\" webpage explains: \"These warning signs were compiled by a task force of expert clinical-researchers and 'translated' for the general public.\"\n\nAs an educational tool, \"IS PATH WARM\" has received widespread exposure. For example, it has been disseminated in suicide prevention materials from such diverse sources as the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration's National Suicide Prevention Lifeline; the Canadian Association for Suicide Prevention; the New York State Department of Correctional Services Training Academy; and the United States Navy, among many others.\n\nResearch regarding whether the mnemonic achieves its educational goals has been limited. However, a 2009 study compared two groups of airmen participating in the United States Air Force Suicide Prevention Program (AFSPP). One group received the Program's standard briefing, which did not include \"IS PATH WARM,\" while the other received the standard briefing along with information about the mnemonic. The researchers concluded:\n\n\"Participants in the standard briefing significantly increased their ability to list suicide warning signs and improved consistency with an expert consensus list, whereas participants in the standard briefing plus mnemonic demonstrated no learning. ... Results suggest that inclusion of the mnemonic in the AFSPP briefing interfered with participants' ability to learn suicide warning signs, and that increased confidence in the perceived ability to recognize suicide risk is not related to actual ability to accurately recall warning signs.\"In summary, the limited research available regarding the educational utility of the \"IS PATH WARM\" mnemonic shows a negative impact on ability to recognize warning signs for suicide, combined with a mistaken sense of confidence in one's ability to do so.\n\n"}
{"id": "41699688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41699688", "title": "Imad Abu Zahra", "text": "Imad Abu Zahra\n\nImad Abu Zahra (ca. 1968 – July 12, 2002) was a freelance photo journalist who worked in Jenin, Palestine. He founded his own local paper for Jenin, which was controversial and ceased publication after five issues. While working in the field, Abu Zahra was shot by Israel forces and would later bleed out and die. He was the third journalist killed during the Second Intifada.\n\nAbu Zahra was born around 1968 and lived in Jenin, Palestine, throughout his adulthood. He spoke four different languages, including Arabic, Hebrew and English. He received a degree from University of Leicester and would later receive admittance to study mass communications in England for a second degree but was killed. He had no family other than his father Subhi and his mother.\n\nLong before his death in 2002, Imad Abu Zahra started an independent newspaper in 1996. He started a local paper for Palestinians living in Jenin. This paper focused on issues that affected Jenin, which would prove to be controversial only five issues after its debut. In the fifth issue, he published an article that the Federation of Labor in Jenin and the mayor did not like. The article in the newspaper explained how money was being dispersed for a rental of a new headquarters for the General Federation of Labor in Jenin. Although this article explained the need for the new renovations, it did speak poorly of its current conditions. In response to this article, the Federation sought out charges of libel. Abu Zahra was never convicted and he never spent time in jail. Although he could have continued the newspaper after this episode, he could not financially support a rebirth of his newspaper. Abu Zahra would continue his career as a freelance photographer and an interpreter for foreign journalists, until his death in 2002.\n\nOn 12 July 2002, Imad Abu Zahra was shot in the leg by members of the Israel Defense Forces, which created a gaping 5 centimeter wound in his femoral artery of the right thigh. The other journalists who were with him say he was clearly marked as a journalist by the bright jacket labelled in large English letters \"Journalist\" and he was unarmed. Abu Zahra laid in the street for approximately 30 minutes because the gunfire continued. After the intense, long-lasting shooting, Abu Zahra was finally shoved into an ambulance by his fellow journalist, Said Dahla. Soon after that, Abu Zahra, 35 years old, died from loss of blood. The killing of Zahra was coincidentally on the same week the murderer of Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl was sentenced to death. An investigation was never conducted for Abu Zahra's death but there is still concern. The concern lies in the blatant and unwarranted nature of the shooting.\n\nAbu Zahra and a colleague of his were in Jenin taking photos of a tank that had hit an electrical pole and became stuck. He would die that day alongside his fellow journalist. The tank was being hit by rocks and fruit thrown by civilians in Jenin. The Israeli Defense Forces claims they retaliated with gun fire in order to stop this. However, some onlookers speak of a completely different scenario playing out. The true reason for the IDF soldiers shooting may never be known. Regardless, Abu Zahra was hit by some of the IDF soldiers and would later bleed to death. He would die that same day. The uncertainties surrounding Abu Zahra's death would lead to much controversy.\n\nThe Israeli army claims citizens were attacking the tank where Abu Zahra and a colleague were taking pictures. Eyewitnesses say the tank was not being struck by projectiles until after the journalists had been shot. The only reports of people being injured that day were the two journalists Abu Zahra and his colleague. Reporters Without Borders directly recommended the Israeli authorities conduct a thorough investigation concerning Abu Zahra's death. Responsibility for his death has still not been accepted by any one group or person.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6150804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6150804", "title": "John Brisker", "text": "John Brisker\n\nJohn Brisker (born June 15, 1947) was an American professional basketball player from Detroit, Michigan who disappeared in Uganda in April 1978. He was declared legally dead in 1985.\n\nA 6'5\" forward/guard who played for the Toledo Rockets basketball team of the University of Toledo, Brisker played six seasons in the ABA and NBA as a member of the Pittsburgh Pipers (1969–1970), Pittsburgh Condors (1970–1972) and Seattle SuperSonics (1972–1975). He averaged 20.7 points per game over the course of his career (26.1 points per game in the ABA, and 11.9 points per game in the NBA).\n\nBrisker developed a reputation as one of the most volatile players in basketball. According to his Condors teammate Charlie Williams, \"He was an excellent player, but say something wrong to the guy and you had this feeling he would reach into his bag, take out a gun and shoot you.\" He was ejected so often for fighting that he was nicknamed \"the heavyweight champion of the ABA.\" The Condors made much of Brisker's reputation as an enforcer; their media guide portrayed him wearing a pair of six-shooters.\n\nBrisker's most infamous moment came against the Denver Rockets. He was ejected only two minutes into the game for a vicious elbow on the Rockets' Art Becker. For unknown reasons, he charged back onto the court, going after Becker three times before police finally ushered him to the locker room.\n\nIn 1978, Brisker went missing after he traveled to Uganda. Some rumors claim he went to Uganda as a mercenary; others say he was invited as a guest by Idi Amin. The last confirmed communication from Brisker was in April 1978, after which it has been speculated that he was executed by a firing squad when Amin was removed from power in 1979. He was declared legally dead in 1985 by the King County, Washington medical examiner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "796543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796543", "title": "John Chaney (basketball, born 1932)", "text": "John Chaney (basketball, born 1932)\n\nJohn Chaney (born January 21, 1932) is an American retired college basketball coach, best known for his success at Temple University.\n\nChaney was born in Jacksonville, Florida. He began his career after graduating from Bethune–Cookman College and spending some time in the Eastern Professional Basketball League, first with the Sunbury Mercuries from 1955 to 1963 and Williamsport Billies from 1963 to 1966.\n\nChaney first became a basketball coach in 1963 at Sayre Junior High School and went 59–9 in three seasons. Inheriting a one-win team in 1966 at Simon Gratz High School in Philadelphia, Chaney compiled a 63–23 record in six seasons.\n\nThe first collegiate position held by Chaney was at Division II Cheyney State. At Cheyney, Chaney was 232–56. He won a national title in 1978.\n\nAfter a decade at Cheyney, Chaney moved on to Division I Temple in Philadelphia. Chaney built a reputation as a tough coach who always demanded excellence on and off the court. He was well known for his early-morning practices, match-up zone defense, tough non-conference scheduling, and winning basketball teams.\n\nChaney won a total of 741 career games. He took Temple to the NCAA tournament 17 times. His 1987–88 Owls team entered the NCAA tournament ranked #1 in the country, and he reached the Elite Eight on five different occasions.\n\nIn 2001, Chaney was elected to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.\n\nOn December 20, 2004, during a win over Princeton, Chaney became the fifth active coach and 19th all-time to appear on the sidelines for 1,000 games, joining Lou Henson (New Mexico State, Illinois), Bob Knight (Army, Indiana, Texas Tech), Eddie Sutton (Creighton, Arkansas, Kentucky, Oklahoma State, San Francisco), and Hugh Durham (Florida State, Georgia, Jacksonville).\n\nOn March 13, 2006, Chaney announced his retirement from coaching at a press conference, to be effective after Temple's play in the National Invitation Tournament (NIT). Fran Dunphy was named Chaney's successor following the season. Chaney has since been inducted into the Big 5 Hall of Fame, which recognizes the best in Philadelphia's college basketball history.\n\nOn February 13, 1994, controversy ensued when he threatened to kill then-University of Massachusetts Amherst coach John Calipari at a post-game news conference, where Calipari was speaking at a podium. Chaney entered the conference mid-speech, accusing Calipari of manipulating the referees. When Calipari attempted to respond to the accusations, Chaney yelled, \"Shut up goddammit!\", and proceeded to charge the stage, before being stopped by security. While being held back, Chaney shouted, \"When I see you, I'm gonna kick your ass!\" As security restrained Chaney, he repeatedly yelled, \"I'll kill you!\" and angrily admitted telling his players to \"knock your fucking kids in the mouth.\" Chaney received a one-game suspension for the incident. The two coaches later reconciled. Chaney has recently praised Calipari's coaching ability and defended him over the Derrick Rose controversy at the University of Memphis.\n\nChaney made headlines in 2005 after ordering backup forward Nehemiah Ingram into the game to commit hard fouls against Big 5 rival Saint Joseph's in response to what he thought were several missed calls by the referees. After the game Chaney admitted to \"sending a message\" and stated \"I'm going to send in what we used to do years ago, send in the goons.\" John Bryant of Saint Joseph's suffered a fractured arm as a result of an intentional foul.\n\nFollowing the incident, he suspended himself for one game, and upon hearing the severity of the injury, the university suspended him for the remainder of the regular season. Temple then later extended the suspension to the Atlantic 10 tournament. He returned for a farewell season that ended in a loss to Saint Joseph's in the A-10 Tournament.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48501932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48501932", "title": "Kyrkoplikt", "text": "Kyrkoplikt\n\nKyrkoplikt (literary: 'Church duty') was a historical form of punishment, practiced in Sweden-Finland. It was a form of Public humiliation in which the condemned was made to confess and repent their crime before being rehabilitated and spared further punishments. It could be sentenced by the church or by a secular court, and performed by the church.\n\nThe \"Kyrkoplikt\" originated from the Confession and repentance within the Catholic church during the middle ages: after having committed a graver crime, the criminal was cast out of their parish congregation, and was only rehabilitated after having repented their sin.\n\nIn the Swedish Church Ordinance 1571, the \"Kyrkoplikt\" consisted of the corporal punishments meted out within the sphere of Public humiliation, such as pillorying, the Stocks, Corporal Punishment and similar punishments, or fines. Finally, the condemned were made to stand upon the \"Pliktpallen\" (Duty Stool) also called \"Skampallen\" (Shame Stool) during church sermon, when their crime were described, after which they repented and were rehabilitated. The punishment could be meted out by both the church as well as by a secular court, who both had the right to handle criminals.\n\nBy the Swedish Church Law 1686, the church was no longer allowed to handle court cases and judge criminals and the right to sentence criminals to \n\"Kyrkoplikt\" was reserved for the legal courts of the state.\n\nIn 1741, a legal reform created two forms of \"Kyrkoplikt\": \"Uppenbar kyrkoplikt\" and \"Enskild kyrkoplikt\".\n\nOn 4 May 1855, \"Kyrkoplikt\" and all forms of Public humiliation was abolished in Sweden. In Finland, the same reform was introduced in 1864.\n\nThe \"Uppenbar kyrkoplikt\" (literary: 'Obvious Church Duty') was the original form of \"kyrkoplikt\". As stated above, it consisted of the condemned being exposed on the \"Pliktpallen\" (Duty Stool) also called \"Skampallen\" (Shame Stool) during church sermon, when their crime were described, after which they repented and were rehabilitated, in many cases after having been subjected to other form of punishments before.\n\n\"Uppenbar kyrkoplikt\" was meted out for all forms of criminalized acts: theft, adultery, abuse, witchcraft and those pardoned from the death sentence.\n\nBy the reform of 1741, \"Uppenbar kyrkoplikt\" was abolished for sex outside of marriage. All sexual acts outside of marriage were formally illegal, but as an illegal sexual act was normally only exposed when it resulted in pregnancy, and the male party could deny having engaged in the act while the participation of the pregnant female in the act was undeniable, the \"Uppenbar kyrkoplikt\" was in practice mostly used upon unmarried mothers. This was viewed as a problem in the Riksdag of the Estates, because the social stigma caused by the \"Uppenbar kyrkoplikt\" way of exposing the women, who felt themselves socially branded, was found to be a significant cause of infanticide performed by unmarried women desperate to do anything to avoid having their reputation ruined by the shame, and despite opposition from the clergy, \"Uppenbar kyrkoplikt\" was abolished for sexual crimes in an attempt to prevent infanticide. This reform was followed by the \"Barnamordsplakatet\" in 1778.\n\nThe \"Enskild kyrkoplikt\" (literary: 'Private Church Duty') meant that the criminal was made to confess and repent in the Sacristy, before or after service, in private before the priest and only a handful of witnesses selected by the priest.\n\nThis was used for the crime of sex outside of marriage, as well as smaller crimes such as insignificant forms of theft.\n\n"}
{"id": "423729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=423729", "title": "Libertarianism (metaphysics)", "text": "Libertarianism (metaphysics)\n\nLibertarianism is one of the main philosophical positions related to the problems of free will and determinism, which are part of the larger domain of metaphysics. In particular, libertarianism, which is an incompatibilist position, argues that free will is logically incompatible with a deterministic universe and that agents have free will, and that, therefore, determinism is false. In the early modern period, some of the most important metaphysical libertarians were René Descartes, George Berkeley, Immanuel Kant, and Thomas Reid. Roderick Chisholm was a prominent defender of libertarianism in the 20th century, and contemporary libertarians include Robert Kane, Peter van Inwagen and Robert Nozick.\n\nThe first recorded use of the term \"libertarianism\" was in 1789 by William Belsham in a discussion of free will and in opposition to \"necessitarian\" (or determinist) views.\n\nMetaphysical libertarianism is one philosophical view point under that of incompatibilism. Libertarianism holds onto a concept of free will that requires the agent to be able to take more than one possible course of action under a given set of circumstances.\n\nAccounts of libertarianism subdivide into non-physical theories and physical or naturalistic theories. Non-physical theories hold that the events in the brain that lead to the performance of actions do not have an entirely physical explanation, and consequently the world is not closed under physics. Such interactionist dualists believe that some non-physical mind, will, or soul overrides physical causality.\n\nExplanations of libertarianism that do not involve dispensing with physicalism require physical indeterminism, such as probabilistic subatomic particle behavior – a theory unknown to many of the early writers on free will. Physical determinism, under the assumption of physicalism, implies there is only one possible future and is therefore not compatible with libertarian free will. Some libertarian explanations involve invoking panpsychism, the theory that a quality of mind is associated with all particles, and pervades the entire universe, in both animate and inanimate entities. Other approaches do not require free will to be a fundamental constituent of the universe; ordinary randomness is appealed to as supplying the \"elbow room\" believed to be necessary by libertarians.\n\nFree volition is regarded as a particular kind of complex, high-level process with an element of indeterminism. An example of this kind of approach has been developed by Robert Kane, where he hypothesises that,\nAlthough at the time quantum mechanics (and physical indeterminism) was only in the initial stages of acceptance, in his book \"Miracles: A preliminary study\" C. S. Lewis stated the logical possibility that if the physical world were proved indeterministic this would provide an entry point to describe an action of a non-physical entity on physical reality. Indeterministic physical models (particularly those involving quantum indeterminacy) introduce random occurrences at an atomic or subatomic level. These events might affect brain activity, and could seemingly allow incompatibilist free will if the apparent indeterminacy of some mental processes (for instance, subjective perceptions of control in conscious volition) map to the underlying indeterminacy of the physical construct. This relationship, however, requires a causative role over probabilities that is questionable, and it is far from established that brain activity responsible for human action can be affected by such events. Secondarily, these incompatibilist models are dependent upon the relationship between action and conscious volition, as studied in the neuroscience of free will. It is evident that observation may disturb the outcome of the observation itself, rendering limited our ability to identify causality. Niels Bohr, one of the main architects of quantum theory, suggested, however, that no connection could be made between indeterminism of nature and freedom of will.\n\nIn non-physical theories of free will, agents are assumed power to intervene in the physical world, a view known as agent causation. Proponents of agent causation include George Berkeley, Thomas Reid, and Roderick Chisholm.\n\nMost events can be explained as the effects of prior events. When a tree falls, it does so because of the force of the wind, its own structural weakness, and so on. However, when a person performs a free act, agent causation theorists say that the action was not caused by any other events or states of affairs, but rather was caused by the agent. Agent causation is ontologically separate from event causation. The action was not uncaused, because the agent caused it. But the agent's causing it was not determined by the agent's character, desires, or past, since that would just be event causation. As Chisholm explains it, humans have \"a prerogative which some would attribute only to God: each of us, when we act, is a prime mover unmoved. In doing what we do, we cause certain events to happen, and nothing – or no one – causes us to cause those events to happen.\" \n\nThis theory involves a difficulty which has long been associated with the idea of an unmoved mover. If a free action was not caused by any event, such as a change in the agent or an act of the will, then what is the difference between saying that an agent caused the event and simply saying that the event happened on its own? As William James put it, \"If a 'free' act be a sheer novelty, that comes not from me, the previous me, but ex nihilo, and simply tacks itself on to me, how can I, the previous I, be responsible? How can I have any permanent character that will stand still long enough for praise or blame to be awarded?\" \n\nAgent causation advocates respond that agent causation is actually more intuitive than event causation. They point to David Hume's argument that when we see two events happen in succession, our belief that one event caused the other cannot be justified rationally (known as the problem of induction). If that is so, where does our belief in causality come from? According to Thomas Reid, \"the conception of an efficient cause may very probably be derived from the experience we have had...of our own power to produce certain effects.\" Our everyday experiences of agent causation provide the basis for the idea of event causation.\n\nEvent-causal accounts of incompatibilist free will typically rely upon physicalist models of mind (like those of the compatibilist), yet they presuppose physical indeterminism, in which certain indeterministic events are said to be caused by the agent. A number of event-causal accounts of free will have been created, referenced here as \"deliberative indeterminism\", \"centred accounts\", and \"efforts of will theory\". The first two accounts do not require free will to be a fundamental constituent of the universe. Ordinary randomness is appealed to as supplying the \"elbow room\" that libertarians believe necessary. A first common objection to event-causal accounts is that the indeterminism could be destructive and could therefore diminish control by the agent rather than provide it (related to the problem of origination). A second common objection to these models is that it is questionable whether such indeterminism could add any value to deliberation over that which is already present in a deterministic world.\n\n\"Deliberative indeterminism\" asserts that the indeterminism is confined to an earlier stage in the decision process. This is intended to provide an indeterminate set of possibilities to choose from, while not risking the introduction of \"luck\" (random decision making). The selection process is deterministic, although it may be based on earlier preferences established by the same process. Deliberative indeterminism has been referenced by Daniel Dennett and John Martin Fischer. An obvious objection to such a view is that an agent cannot be assigned ownership over their decisions (or preferences used to make those decisions) to any greater degree than that of a compatibilist model.\n\n\"Centred accounts\" propose that for any given decision between two possibilities, the strength of reason will be considered for each option, yet there is still a probability the weaker candidate will be chosen. An obvious objection to such a view is that decisions are explicitly left up to chance, and origination or responsibility cannot be assigned for any given decision.\n\n\"Efforts of will theory\" is related to the role of will power in decision making. It suggests that the indeterminacy of agent volition processes could map to the indeterminacy of certain physical events – and the outcomes of these events could therefore be considered caused by the agent. Models of volition have been constructed in which it is seen as a particular kind of complex, high-level process with an element of physical indeterminism. An example of this approach is that of Robert Kane, where he hypothesizes that \"in each case, the indeterminism is functioning as a hindrance or obstacle to her realizing one of her purposes – a hindrance or obstacle in the form of resistance within her will which must be overcome by effort.\" According to Robert Kane such \"ultimate responsibility\" is a required condition for free will. An important factor in such a theory is that the agent cannot be reduced to physical neuronal events, but rather mental processes are said to provide an equally valid account of the determination of outcome as their physical processes (see non-reductive physicalism).\n\nEpicurus, an ancient Greek philosopher, argued that as atoms moved through the void, there were occasions when they would \"swerve\" (\"clinamen\") from their otherwise determined paths, thus initiating new causal chains. Epicurus argued that these swerves would allow us to be more responsible for our actions, something impossible if every action was deterministically caused.\n\nEpicurus did not say the swerve was directly involved in decisions. But following Aristotle, Epicurus thought human agents have the autonomous ability to transcend necessity and chance (both of which destroy responsibility), so that praise and blame are appropriate. Epicurus finds a \"tertium quid\", beyond necessity (Democritus' physics) and beyond chance. His \"tertium quid\" is agent autonomy, what is \"up to us.\"\n\nLucretius (1st century BC), a strong supporter of Epicurus, saw the randomness as enabling free will, even if he could not explain exactly how, beyond the fact that random swerves would break the causal chain of determinism.\n\nHowever, the interpretation of Greek philosophers is controversial. Tim O'Keefe has argued that Epicurus and Lucretius were not libertarians at all, but compatibilists.\n\nRobert Nozick put forward an indeterministic theory of free will in \"Philosophical Explanations\" (1981). \n\nWhen human beings become agents through reflexive self-awareness, they express their agency by having reasons for acting, to which they assign weights. Choosing the dimensions of one's identity is a special case, in which the assigning of weight to a dimension is partly self-constitutive. But all acting for reasons is constitutive of the self in a broader sense, namely, by its shaping one's character and personality in a manner analogous to the shaping that law undergoes through the precedent set by earlier court decisions. Just as a judge does not merely apply the law but to some degree makes it through judicial discretion, so too a person does not merely discover weights but assigns them; one not only weighs reasons but also weights them. Set in train is a process of building a framework for future decisions that we are tentatively committed to.\n\nThe lifelong process of self-definition in this broader sense is construed indeterministically by Nozick. The weighting is \"up to us\" in the sense that it is undetermined by antecedent causal factors, even though subsequent action is fully caused by the reasons one has accepted. He compares assigning weights in this deterministic sense to \"the currently orthodox interpretation of quantum mechanics\", following von Neumann in understanding a quantum mechanical system as in a superposition or probability mixture of states, which changes continuously in accordance with quantum mechanical equations of motion and discontinuously via measurement or observation that \"collapses the wave packet\" from a superposition to a particular state. Analogously, a person before decision has reasons without fixed weights: he is in a superposition of weights. The process of decision reduces the superposition to a particular state that causes action.\n\nOne particularly influential contemporary theory of libertarian free will is that of Robert Kane. Kane argues that \"(1) the existence of alternative possibilities (or the agent's power to do otherwise) is a necessary condition for acting freely, and that (2) determinism is not compatible with alternative possibilities (it precludes the power to do otherwise)\". It is important to note that the crux of Kane's position is grounded not in a defense of alternative possibilities (AP) but in the notion of what Kane refers to as ultimate responsibility (UR). Thus, AP is a necessary but insufficient criterion for free will. It is necessary that there be (metaphysically) real alternatives for our actions, but that is not enough; our actions could be random without being in our control. The control is found in \"ultimate responsibility\".\n\nUltimate responsibility entails that agents must be the ultimate creators (or originators) and sustainers of their own ends and purposes. There must be more than one way for a person's life to turn out (AP). More importantly, whichever way it turns out must be based in the person's willing actions. As Kane defines it,\n\nIn short, \"an agent must be responsible for anything that is a sufficient reason (condition, cause or motive) for the action's occurring.\"\n\nWhat allows for ultimacy of creation in Kane's picture are what he refers to as \"self-forming actions\" or SFAs—those moments of indecision during which people experience conflicting wills. These SFAs are the undetermined, regress-stopping voluntary actions or refraining in the life histories of agents that are required for UR. UR does not require that \"every\" act done of our own free will be undetermined and thus that, for every act or choice, we could have done otherwise; it requires only that certain of our choices and actions be undetermined (and thus that we could have done otherwise), namely SFAs. These form our character or nature; they inform our future choices, reasons and motivations in action. If a person has had the opportunity to make a character-forming decision (SFA), they are responsible for the actions that are a result of their character.\n\nRandolph Clarke objects that Kane's depiction of free will is not truly libertarian but rather a form of compatibilism. The objection asserts that although the outcome of an SFA is not determined, one's history up to the event \"is\"; so the fact that an SFA will occur is also determined. The outcome of the SFA is based on chance, and from that point on one's life is determined. This kind of freedom, says Clarke, is no different than the kind of freedom argued for by compatibilists, who assert that even though our actions are determined, they are free because they are in accordance with our own wills, much like the outcome of an SFA.\n\nKane responds that the difference between causal indeterminism and compatibilism is \"ultimate control—the originative control exercised by agents when it is 'up to them' which of a set of possible choices or actions will now occur, and up to no one and nothing else over which the agents themselves do not also have control\". UR assures that the sufficient conditions for one's actions do not lie before one's own birth.\n\nGalen Strawson holds that there is a fundamental sense in which free will is impossible, whether determinism is true or not. He argues for this position with what he calls his \"basic argument\", which aims to show that no-one is ever ultimately morally responsible for their actions, and hence that no one has free will in the sense that usually concerns us.\n\nIn his book defending compatibilism, \"Freedom Evolves\", Daniel Dennett spends a chapter criticising Kane's theory. Kane believes freedom is based on certain rare and exceptional events, which he calls self-forming actions or SFA's. Dennett notes that there is no guarantee such an event will occur in an individual's life. If it does not, the individual does not in fact have free will at all, according to Kane. Yet they will seem the same as anyone else. Dennett finds an essentially \"indetectable\" notion of free will to be incredible.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24191364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24191364", "title": "Lucille Ball", "text": "Lucille Ball\n\nLucille Désirée Ball (August 6, 1911 – April 26, 1989) was an American actress, comedian, model, entertainment studio executive, and producer. She was the star of the self-produced sitcoms \"I Love Lucy\", \"The Lucy Show\", \"Here's Lucy\", and \"Life with Lucy\", as well as comedy television specials aired under the title \"The Lucy-Desi Comedy Hour\".\n\nBall's career began in 1929 when she landed work as a model. Shortly thereafter, she began her performing career on Broadway using the stage names Diane Belmont and Dianne Belmont. She later appeared in several minor film roles in the 1930s and 1940s as a contract player for RKO Radio Pictures, being cast as a chorus girl or in similar roles. During this time, she met Cuban bandleader Desi Arnaz, and the two eloped in November 1940.\n\nIn the 1950s, Ball ventured into television. In 1951, she and Arnaz created the sitcom \"I Love Lucy\", a series that became one of the most beloved programs in television history. The same year, Ball gave birth to their first child, Lucie Arnaz, followed by Desi Arnaz Jr. in 1953. Ball and Arnaz divorced in May 1960, and she married comedian Gary Morton in 1961.\n\nFollowing the end of \"I Love Lucy\", Ball would go on to appear in a Broadway musical, \"Wildcat\", for a year from 1960 to 1961, although the show received lukewarm reviews and had to be shut down permanently when Ball became ill for a brief time.\n\nAfter \"Wildcat\", Ball reunited with \"I Love Lucy\" co-star Vivian Vance for the aforementioned \"Lucy Show\", which Vance departed in 1965 but which was to continue for three years with longtime friend of Ball's Gale Gordon who already had a recurring role on the program.\n\nIn 1962, Ball became the first woman to run a major television studio, Desilu Productions, which produced many popular television series, including \"\" and \"\". Ball did not back away from acting completely. She appeared in film and television roles for the rest of her career until her death in April 1989 from an abdominal aortic dissection at the age of 77.\n\nIn 1985, Ball took on a dramatic role in a television film, \"Stone Pillow\". The next year she starred in \"Life with Lucy\", which was, unlike her other sitcoms, not well-received; the show was cancelled after three months. Ball was nominated for 13 Primetime Emmy Awards, winning four times. In 1977, Ball was among the first recipients of the Women in Film Crystal Award.\n\nShe was the recipient of the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award in 1979, inducted into the Television Hall of Fame in 1984, the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Kennedy Center Honors in 1986, and the Governors Award from the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences in 1989.\n\nBorn at 69 Stewart Avenue, Jamestown, New York, Lucille Désirée Ball was the daughter of Henry Durrell Ball (1887–1915) and Désirée \"DeDe\" Evelyn Ball (née Hunt; 1892–1977). Her family lived in Wyandotte, Michigan for a time. She sometimes later claimed that she had been born in Butte, Montana where her grandparents had lived. A number of magazines reported inaccurately that she had decided that Montana was a more romantic place to be born than New York and repeated a fantasy of a \"western childhood\". However her father had moved the family to Anaconda, Montana for his work, where they lived briefly, among other places.\n\nHer family belonged to the Baptist church. Her ancestors were mostly English, but a few were Scottish, French, and Irish. Some were among the earliest settlers in the Thirteen Colonies, including Elder John Crandall of Westerly, Rhode Island, and Edmund Rice, an early emigrant from England to the Massachusetts Bay Colony.\n\nWhen Lucille was three years old, her 27-year-old father died of typhoid fever. Henry Ball was a lineman for Bell Telephone Company and was frequently transferred. The family had moved from Jamestown to Anaconda, Montana, and later to Trenton, New Jersey. Her father contracted typhoid and died in February 1915 while DeDe Ball was pregnant with her second child, Frederick. Lucille Ball recalled little from the day her father died, but remembered a bird getting trapped in the house. From that day forward, she suffered from ornithophobia.\n\nAfter Ball's father died, her mother returned to New York. Ball and her brother, Fred Henry Ball (1915–2007), were raised by their mother and maternal grandparents in Celoron, New York, a summer resort village on Lake Chautauqua, 2.5 miles west of downtown Jamestown. Lucy loved Celoron Park, one of the best amusement areas in the United States at that time. Its boardwalk had a ramp to the lake that served as a children's slide, the Pier Ballroom, a roller-coaster, a bandstand, and a stage where vaudeville concerts and regular theatrical shows were presented which made Celoron Park a popular resort.\n\nFour years after Henry Ball's death, DeDe Ball married Edward Peterson. While her mother and stepfather looked for work in another city, Peterson's parents cared for her and her brother. Ball's stepgrandparents were a puritanical Swedish couple who banished all mirrors from the house except one over the bathroom sink. When the young Ball was caught admiring herself in it, she was severely chastised for being vain. This period of time affected Ball so deeply that, in later life, she claimed that it lasted seven or eight years.\n\nPeterson was a Shriner. When his organization needed female entertainers for the chorus line of their next show, he encouraged his 12-year-old stepdaughter to audition. While Ball was onstage, she realized performing was a great way to gain praise and recognition. Her appetite for recognition was awakened at an early age. In 1927, her family suffered misfortune. Their house and furnishings were lost to settle a financial legal judgment after a neighborhood boy was accidentally shot and paralyzed by someone target shooting in their yard under the supervision of Ball's grandfather. The family subsequently moved into a small apartment in Jamestown.\n\nIn 1925, Ball, then only 14, started dating Johnny DeVita, a 21-year-old local hoodlum. DeDe was unhappy with the relationship, but unable to influence her daughter to end it. She expected the romance to burn out after a few weeks, but that did not happen. After about a year, DeDe tried to separate them by exploiting Lucille's desire to be in show business. Despite the family's meager finances, she arranged for Lucille to attend the John Murray Anderson School for the Dramatic Arts, in New York City, where Bette Davis was a fellow student. Ball later said about that time in her life, \"All I learned in drama school was how to be frightened.\" Ball's instructors felt she would not be successful in the entertainment business, and were not afraid to say this to her face.\n\nIn the face of this harsh criticism, Ball was determined to prove her teachers wrong and returned to New York City in 1928. That same year, she began working for Hattie Carnegie as an in-house model. Carnegie ordered Ball to dye her then-brown hair blonde, and Ball complied. Of this time in her life, Ball said, \"Hattie taught me how to slouch properly in a $1,000 hand-sewn sequin dress and how to wear a $40,000 sable coat as casually as rabbit.\"\n\nBall's career was thriving when she became ill with rheumatoid arthritis and was unable to work for two years.\n\nIn 1932, she moved back to New York City to resume her pursuit of an acting career and supported herself again by working for Carnegie and as the Chesterfield cigarette girl. Using the name Diane (sometimes spelled Dianne) Belmont, she started getting chorus work on Broadway, but it was not lasting. Ball was hired – but then quickly fired – by theatre impresario Earl Carroll, from his \"Vanities\", and by Florenz Ziegfeld, from a touring company of \"Rio Rita\".\n\nAfter an uncredited stint as a Goldwyn Girl in \"Roman Scandals\" (1933), starring Eddie Cantor and Gloria Stuart, Ball moved permanently to Hollywood to appear in films. She had many small movie roles in the 1930s as a contract player for RKO Radio Pictures, including a two-reel comedy short with the Three Stooges (\"Three Little Pigskins\", 1934) and a movie with the Marx Brothers (\"Room Service\", 1938). She also appeared as one of the featured models in the Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers film \"Roberta\" (1935), as the flower girl in \"Top Hat\" (1935), and in a brief supporting role at the beginning of \"Follow the Fleet\" (1936), another Astaire-Rogers film. Ball and Ginger Rogers, who were distant maternal cousins, played aspiring actresses in the film \"Stage Door\" (1937).\n\nIn 1936, she landed the role she hoped would lead her to Broadway, in the Bartlett Cormack play \"Hey Diddle Diddle\", a comedy set in a duplex apartment in Hollywood. The play premiered in Princeton, New Jersey, on January 21, 1937, with Ball playing the part of Julie Tucker, \"one of three roommates coping with neurotic directors, confused executives, and grasping stars, who interfere with the girls' ability to get ahead\".\n\nThe play received good reviews, but problems existed, chiefly with its star, Conway Tearle, who was in poor health. Cormack wanted to replace him, but the producer, Anne Nichols, said the fault lay with the character and insisted that the part needed to be reshaped and rewritten. The two were unable to agree on a solution. The play was scheduled to open on Broadway at the Vanderbilt Theatre, but closed after one week in Washington, DC, when Tearle suddenly became gravely ill.\n\nBall later auditioned for the role of Scarlett O'Hara for \"Gone with the Wind\" (1939), but Vivien Leigh got the part, winning an Academy Award for Best Actress for her role.\nBall signed with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in the 1940s, but never achieved major stardom there. She was known in Hollywood circles as \"Queen of the B's\" – a title previously held by Fay Wray – starring in a number of B-movies, such as \"Five Came Back\" (1939). Like many budding actresses, Ball picked up radio work to supplement her income and gain exposure. In 1937, she appeared regularly on \"The Phil Baker Show\".\n\nWhen its run ended in 1938, Ball joined the cast of \"The Wonder Show\" starring Jack Haley (best remembered as the Tin Woodman in \"The Wizard of Oz\", 1939). There began her 50-year professional relationship with the show's announcer, Gale Gordon. \"The Wonder Show\" lasted one season, with the final episode airing on April 7, 1939. MGM producer Arthur Freed purchased the Broadway hit musical play \"DuBarry Was a Lady\" (1943) especially for Ann Sothern, but when she turned down the part, that plum role went to Ball, Sothern's real-life best friend. In 1946, Ball starred in \"Lover Come Back\". In 1947, she appeared in the murder mystery \"Lured\" as Sandra Carpenter, a taxi dancer in London.\n\nIn 1948, Ball was cast as Liz Cooper (at first \"Cugat\"; this was changed because listeners were getting the characters confused with a real-life bandleader, Xavier Cugat), a wacky wife, in \"My Favorite Husband\", an audio program for CBS Radio.\n\nThe show was successful, and CBS asked her to develop it for television. She agreed, but insisted on working with her real-life husband, Cuban bandleader Desi Arnaz. CBS executives were reluctant, thinking the public would not accept an All-American redhead and a Cuban as a couple. CBS was initially unimpressed with the pilot episode, produced by the couple's Desilu Productions company. The pair went on the road with a vaudeville act, in which Lucy played the zany housewife, wanting to get into Arnaz's show. Given the great success of the tour, CBS put \"I Love Lucy\" into their lineup.\n\n\"I Love Lucy\" was not only a star vehicle for Lucille Ball, but also a potential means for her to salvage her marriage to Arnaz. Their relationship had become badly strained, in part because of their hectic performing schedules, which often kept them apart, but mostly due to Desi's attraction to other women.\n\nAlong the way, Ball created a television dynasty and achieved several firsts. She was the first woman to head a TV production company: Desilu, which she had formed with Arnaz. After their divorce, she bought out his share and became a very actively engaged studio head. Desilu and \"I Love Lucy\" pioneered a number of methods still in use in TV production today, such as filming before a live studio audience with a number of cameras, and distinct sets, adjacent to each other. During this time, Ball taught a 32-week comedy workshop at the Brandeis-Bardin Institute. She was quoted as saying, \"You cannot teach someone comedy; either they have it or they don't.\"\n\nDuring the run of \"I Love Lucy\", Ball and Arnaz wanted to remain in their Los Angeles home, but time-zone logistics made that difficult. Since prime time in L.A. was too late at night on the East Coast to air a major network series, filming in California would have meant giving most of the TV audience an inferior kinescope picture — and, at least, a day later.\n\nSponsor Philip Morris did not want to show day-old kinescopes to major East Coast markets, nor did they want to pay the extra cost that filming, processing, and editing would require. So, the company pressured Ball and Arnaz to relocate to New York City. The couple offered to take a pay cut to finance filming, on the condition that Desilu would retain the rights of each episode once it aired. CBS agreed to relinquish the post-first-broadcast rights to Desilu, not realizing they were giving up a valuable and enduring asset. In 1957, CBS bought back the rights for $1,000,000 ($ in today's terms), providing Ball and Arnaz's down payment for the purchase of the former RKO Pictures studios, which they turned into Desilu Studios.\n\n\"I Love Lucy\" dominated U.S. ratings for most of its run. (An attempt was also made, with the same cast and writers, to adapt the show for radio. The pilot adapted the famous \"Breaking the Lease\" episode, in which the Ricardos and Mertzes argue, and the Ricardos threaten to move, but find themselves stuck in a firm lease. The resulting radio audition disc has survived, but never aired.)\n\nA scene in which Lucy and Ricky practice the tango, in the episode \"Lucy Does The Tango\", evoked the longest recorded studio audience laugh in the history of the show — so long that the sound editor had to cut that section of the soundtrack in half. During the show's production breaks, Lucy and Desi starred together in two feature films: \"The Long, Long Trailer\" (1954) and \"Forever, Darling\" (1956). After \"I Love Lucy\" ended its run in 1957, the main cast continued to appear in occasional hour-long specials under the title \"The Lucy–Desi Comedy Hour\" until 1960.\n\nDesilu produced several other popular shows, such as \"The Untouchables\", \"\", and \"\". The studio was eventually sold in 1967 for $17,000,000 ($ in today's terms) and merged into Paramount Pictures.\n\nThe 1960 Broadway musical \"Wildcat\" ended its run early when Ball became too ill to continue in the show. The show was the source of the song she made famous, \"Hey, Look Me Over\", which she performed with Paula Stewart on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\". Ball hosted a CBS Radio talk show entitled \"Let's Talk to Lucy\" in 1964–65. She also made a few more movies including \"Yours, Mine, and Ours\" (1968), and the musical \"Mame\" (1974), and two more successful long-running sitcoms for CBS: \"The Lucy Show\" (1962–68), which costarred Vivian Vance and Gale Gordon, and \"Here's Lucy\" (1968–74), which also featured Gordon, as well as Lucy's real-life children, Lucie Arnaz and Desi Arnaz, Jr. She appeared on the Dick Cavett show in 1974 and spoke of her history and life with Arnaz.\nBall's close friends in the business included perennial co-star Vivian Vance and film stars Judy Garland, Ann Sothern, and Ginger Rogers, and comedic television performers Jack Benny, Barbara Pepper, Mary Wickes and Mary Jane Croft; all except Garland appeared at least once on her various series. Former Broadway co-stars Keith Andes and Paula Stewart also appeared at least once on her later sitcoms, as did Joan Blondell, Rich Little and Ann-Margret. Ball mentored actress and singer Carole Cook, and befriended Barbara Eden, when Eden appeared on an episode of \"I Love Lucy\".\n\nIn 1966, Ball became a friend and mentor to Carol Burnett. She guested on Burnett's highly successful CBS-TV special \"Carol + 2\" and the younger performer reciprocated by appearing on \"The Lucy Show\". It was rumored that Ball offered Burnett a chance to star on her own sitcom, but in truth Burnett was offered (and declined) \"Here's Agnes\" by CBS executives. She instead chose to create her own variety show due to a stipulation that was on an existing contract she had with CBS. The two women remained close friends until Ball's death in 1989. Ball sent flowers every year on Burnett's birthday. When Burnett awoke on the day of her 56th birthday in 1989, she discovered via the morning news that Lucille Ball had died. Later that afternoon, flowers arrived at Burnett's house with a note reading, \"Happy Birthday, Kid. Love, Lucy.\"\n\nBall was originally considered by Frank Sinatra for the role of Mrs. Iselin in the Cold War thriller \"The Manchurian Candidate\". Director/producer John Frankenheimer, however, had worked with Angela Lansbury in a mother role in \"All Fall Down\" and insisted on having her for the part.\n\nBall was the lead actress in a number of comedy television specials to about 1980, including \"Lucy Calls the President\" which featured Vivian Vance, Gale Gordon and Mary Jane Croft, and \"Lucy Moves to NBC\", a special depicting a fictionalization of her move to the NBC television network.\nDuring the mid-1980s, Ball attempted to resurrect her television career. In 1982, she hosted a two-part \"Three's Company\" retrospective, showing clips from the show's first five seasons, summarizing memorable plotlines, and commenting on her love of the show.\n\nA 1985 dramatic made-for-TV film about an elderly homeless woman, \"Stone Pillow\", received mixed reviews. Her 1986 sitcom comeback \"Life with Lucy\", costarring her longtime foil Gale Gordon and co-produced by Ball, Gary Morton, and prolific producer/former actor Aaron Spelling was cancelled less than two months into its run by ABC. In February 1988, Ball was named the Hasty Pudding Woman of the Year.\n\nIn May 1988, Ball was hospitalized after suffering a mild heart attack. Her last public appearance, just one month before her death, was at the 1989 Academy Awards telecast in which she and fellow presenter Bob Hope were given a standing ovation.\n\nWhen Ball registered to vote in 1936, she listed her party affiliation as Communist. (She was registered as a Communist in 1938 as well.)\n\nTo sponsor the Communist Party's 1936 candidate for the California State Assembly's 57th District, Ball signed a certificate stating, \"I am registered as affiliated with the Communist Party.\" The same year, she was appointed to the State Central Committee of the Communist Party of California, according to records of the California Secretary of State. In 1937, Hollywood writer Rena Vale, a self-identified former Communist, attended a Communist Party new members' class at Ball's home, according to Vale's testimony before the United States House of Representatives' Special House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC), on July 22, 1940. Two years later, Vale affirmed this testimony in a sworn deposition:\n\nIn a 1944 British Pathé newsreel, titled \"Fund Raising for Roosevelt\", Ball was featured prominently among several stage and film stars at events in support of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's fundraising campaign for the March of Dimes. She stated that in the 1952 US Presidential Election, she voted for Republican Dwight Eisenhower.\n\nOn September 4, 1953, Ball met privately with HUAC investigator William A. Wheeler in Hollywood and gave him sealed testimony. She stated that she had registered to vote as a Communist \"or intended to vote the Communist Party ticket\" in 1936 at her socialist grandfather's insistence. She stated she \"at no time intended to vote as a Communist\", \n\nImmediately before the filming of episode 68 (\"The Girls Go Into Business\") of \"I Love Lucy\", Desi Arnaz, instead of his usual audience warm-up, told the audience about Lucy and her grandfather. Reusing the line he had first given to Hedda Hopper in an interview, he quipped: \"The only thing red about Lucy is her hair, and even that is not legitimate.\"\n\nIn 1940, Ball met Cuban-born bandleader Desi Arnaz while filming the Rodgers and Hart stage hit \"Too Many Girls\". When they met again on the second day, the two connected immediately and eloped the same year. Although Arnaz was drafted into the Army in 1942, he ended up being classified for limited service due to a knee injury. As a result, Arnaz stayed in Los Angeles, organizing and performing USO shows for wounded GIs being brought back from the Pacific.\n\nBall filed for divorce in 1944, going so far as obtaining an interlocutory decree; however, she and Arnaz reconciled, which precluded the entry of a final decree.\nOn July 17, 1951, one month before her 40th birthday, Ball gave birth to daughter Lucie Désirée Arnaz. A year and a half later, Ball gave birth to her second child, Desiderio Alberto Arnaz IV, known as Desi Arnaz, Jr. Before he was born, \"I Love Lucy\" was a solid ratings hit, and Ball and Arnaz wrote the pregnancy into the show. (Ball's necessary and planned caesarean section in real life was scheduled for the same date that her television character gave birth.)\n\nSeveral demands were made by CBS, insisting that a pregnant woman could not be shown on television, nor could the word \"pregnant\" be spoken on-air. After approval from several religious figures the network allowed the pregnancy storyline, but insisted that the word \"expecting\" be used instead of \"pregnant\". (Arnaz garnered laughs when he deliberately mispronounced it as \"'spectin'\".) The episode's official title was \"Lucy Is Enceinte\", borrowing the French word for pregnant; however, episode titles never appeared on the show.\n\nThe episode aired on the evening of January 19, 1953, with 44 million viewers watching Lucy Ricardo welcome little Ricky, while in real life Ball delivered her second child, Desi Jr., that same day in Los Angeles. The birth made the cover of the first issue of \"TV Guide\" for the week of April 3–9, 1953.\n\nIn October 1956, Ball, Arnaz, Vance, and William Frawley all appeared on a Bob Hope special on NBC, including a spoof of \"I Love Lucy\", the only time all four stars were together on a color telecast. By the end of the 1950s, Desilu had become a large company, causing a good deal of stress for both Ball and Arnaz.\n\nOn March 3, 1960, a day after Desi's 43rd birthday (and one day after the filming of Lucy and Desi's last episode together), Ball filed papers in Santa Monica Superior Court, claiming married life with Desi was \"a nightmare\" and nothing at all as it appeared on \"I Love Lucy\".\n\nOn May 4, 1960, just two months after filming that episode (the final episode of \"The Lucy-Desi Comedy Hour\"), the couple divorced. Until his death in 1986, however, Arnaz and Ball remained friends and often spoke very fondly of each other. Her real-life divorce indirectly found its way into her later television series, as she was always cast as an unmarried woman.\n\nThe following year, Ball starred in the Broadway musical \"Wildcat\", which co-starred Keith Andes and Paula Stewart. It marked the beginning of a 30-year friendship between Lucy and Stewart, who introduced Lucy to second husband, Gary Morton, a Borscht Belt comic who was 13 years her junior. According to Ball, Morton claimed he had never seen an episode of \"I Love Lucy\" due to his hectic work schedule. Ball immediately installed Morton in her production company, teaching him the television business and eventually promoting him to producer. Morton played occasional bit parts on Ball's various series.\n\nBall was outspoken against the relationship her son had with actress Patty Duke. Later, commenting on when her son dated Liza Minnelli, she was quoted as saying, \"I miss Liza, but you cannot domesticate Liza.\"\n\nOn April 18, 1989, Ball was at her home in Beverly Hills when she complained of chest pains. An ambulance was called and she was rushed to the emergency room of Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. She was diagnosed with dissecting aortic aneurysm and underwent heart surgery for nearly eight hours, including the transplant of a new aorta. The surgery appeared to have been successful, and Ball began recovering very quickly, even walking around her room with little assistance. She received a flurry of get-well wishes from Hollywood, and across the street from Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, the Hard Rock Café erected a sign reading \"Hard Rock Loves Lucy\". However, shortly after dawn on April 26, Ball awoke with severe back pains and soon lost consciousness.\n\nAttempts to revive her failed and her death was officially pronounced at 5:47 a.m. PDT. Doctors determined that Ball had succumbed to an abdominal aortic aneurysm and subsequent rupture, and that it was not directly related to her upper aneurysm and surgery the previous week. Cigarette smokers are known to have increased risk of abdominal aneurysm. Ball had been a heavy smoker most of her life. She was 77 years old.\n\nHer body was cremated and the ashes were initially interred in Forest Lawn – Hollywood Hills Cemetery in Los Angeles. However, in 2002, her children moved her remains to the Hunt family plot at Lake View Cemetery in Jamestown, New York, where her parents, Henry and Desirée (Hunt) Ball, and her grandparents are buried.\n\nOn February 8, 1960, Ball was awarded two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame: one at 6436 Hollywood Boulevard for contributions to motion pictures, and one at 6100 Hollywood Boulevard for television.\n\nBall received many prestigious awards throughout her career, including some posthumously such as the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President George H. W. Bush on July 6, 1989, and The Women's International Center's 'Living Legacy Award'.\n\nA Lucille Ball-Desi Arnaz Center museum is in Lucy's hometown of Jamestown, New York. The Little Theatre was renamed the Lucille Ball Little Theatre in her honor. Ball was among \"Time\" magazine's \"100 Most Important People of the Century\".\n\nOn June 7, 1990, Universal Studios Florida opened a walk-through attraction dedicated to Ball, \"Lucy – A Tribute\", which featured clips of shows, as well as various pieces of trivia about her, along with items owned by or associated with Lucille, and an interactive quiz for guests. The attraction was permanently closed on August 17, 2015.\n\nOn August 6, 2001, which would have been her 90th birthday, the United States Postal Service honored her with a commemorative postage stamp as part of its Legends of Hollywood series.\n\nBall appeared on the cover of \"TV Guide\" more than any other person; she appeared on 39 covers, including the first cover in 1953 with her baby son, Desi Arnaz, Jr. \"TV Guide\" voted Lucille Ball as the 'Greatest TV Star of All Time' and it later commemorated the 50th anniversary of \"I Love Lucy\" with eight collector covers celebrating memorable scenes from the show. In another instance it named \"I Love Lucy\" the second-best television program in American history, after \"Seinfeld\".\n\nDue to her support for the Women's Movement, Ball was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame in 2001.\n\nThe Friars Club named a room in its New York clubhouse for Lucille Ball (the Lucille Ball Room). She was posthumously awarded the 'Legacy of Laughter' award at the fifth Annual TV Land Awards in 2007. In November 2007, Lucille Ball was chosen as number two on a list of the '50 Greatest TV Icons'; a public poll, however, chose her as number one.\n\nOn August 6, 2011, which would have been her 100th birthday, Google honored Ball with an interactive doodle on their homepage, which displayed six classic moments from \"I Love Lucy\". On the same day, a total of 915 Ball look-alikes converged on Jamestown to celebrate the birthday and set a new world record for such a gathering.\n\nSince 2009, a statue of Ball has been on display in Celoron, New York. Residents deemed that statue \"scary\" and not accurate, earning it the nickname \"Scary Lucy\". On August 1, 2016, it was announced that a new statue of Ball would replace it. The new statue replaced the old one on August 6, 2016. However, since the old statue became a local tourist attraction after receiving media attention, it was placed 75 yards from its original location so visitors could visit both statues.\n\nIn 2015, it was announced that Ball would be played by Cate Blanchett in an untitled biographical film, to be written by Aaron Sorkin.\n\nBall was portrayed by Gillian Anderson, as her character Lucy Ricardo, in the \"American Gods\" episode \"The Secret of Spoons\" (2017).\n\nBall was portrayed by Sarah Drew in \"I Love Lucy: A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Sitcom\", a comedy about how Ball and her husband battled to get their sitcom on the air. It had its world premiere in Los Angeles on July 12, 2018, co-starring Oscar Nuñez as Desi Arnaz, and Seamus Dever as \"I Love Lucy\" creator-producer-head writer Jess Oppenheimer. The play, written by Jess Oppenheimer's son, Gregg Oppenheimer, was recorded in front of a live audience for nationwide public radio broadcast and online distribution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39288495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39288495", "title": "Mitochondrial fusion", "text": "Mitochondrial fusion\n\nMitochondria are dynamic organelles with the ability to fuse and divide (fission), forming constantly changing tubular networks in most eukaryotic cells. These mitochondrial dynamics, first observed over a hundred years ago are important for the health of the cell, and defects in dynamics lead to genetic disorders. Through fusion, mitochondria can overcome the dangerous consequences of genetic malfunction. The process of mitochondrial fusion involves a variety of proteins that assist the cell throughout the series of events that form this process. \n\nWhen cells experience metabolic or environmental stresses, mitochondrial fusion and fission work to maintain functional mitochondria. An increase in fusion activity leads to mitochondrial elongation, whereas an increase in fission activity results in mitochondrial fragmentation. The components of this process can influence programmed cell death and lead to neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease. Such cell death can be caused by disruptions in the process of either fusion or fission. \n\nThe shapes of mitochondria in cells are continually changing via a combination of fission, fusion, and motility. Specifically, fusion assists in modifying stress by integrating the contents of slightly damaged mitochondria as a form of complementation. By enabling genetic complementation, fusion of the mitochondria allows for two mitochondrial genomes with different defects within the same organelle to individually encode what the other lacks. In doing so, these mitochondrial genomes generate all of the necessary components for a functional mitochondrion.\n\nThe combined effects of continuous fusion and fission give rise to mitochondrial networks. The mechanisms of mitochondrial fusion and fission are regulated by proteolysis and posttranslational modifications. The actions of fission, fusion and motility cause the shapes of these double membrane bound subcellular organelles we know as mitochondria to continually alter their shapes. \n\nThe changes in balance between the rates of mitochondrial fission and fusion directly affect the wide range of mitochondrial lengths that can be observed in different cell types. Rapid fission and fusion of the mitochondria in cultured fibroblasts has been shown to promote the redistribution of mitochondrial green fluorescent protein (GFP) from one mitochondrion to all of the other mitochondria. This process can occur in a cell within a time period as short as an hour.\n\nThe significance of mitochondrial fission and fusion is distinct for nonproliferating neurons, which are unable to survive without mitochondrial fission. Such nonproliferating neurons cause two human diseases known as dominant optic atrophy and Charcot Marie Tooth disease type 2A, which are both caused by fusion defects. Though the importance of these processes is evident, it is still unclear why mitochondrial fission and fusion are necessary for nonproliferating cells.\n\nMany gene products that control mitochondrial fusion have been identified, and can be reduced to three core groups which also control mitochondrial fission. These groups of proteins include mitofusins, OPA1/Mgm1, and Drp1/Dnm1. All of these molecules are GTP hydrolyzing proteins (GTPases) that belong to the dynamin family. Mitochondrial dynamics in different cells are understood by the way in which these proteins regulate and bind to each other. These GTPases in control of mitochondrial fusion are well conserved between mammals, flies, and yeast. Mitochondrial fusion mediators differ between the outer and inner membranes of the mitochondria. Specific membrane-anchored dynamin family members mediate fusion between mitochondrial outer membranes known as Mfn1 and Mfn2. These two proteins are mitofusin contained within humans that can alter the morphology of affected mitochondria in over-expressed conditions. However, a single dynamin family member known as OPA1 in mammals mediates fusion between mitochondrial inner membranes. These regulating proteins of mitochondrial fusion are organism-dependent; therefore, in \"Drosophila\" (fruit flies) and yeasts, the process is controlled by the mitochondrial transmembrane GTPase, Fzo. In \"Drosophila\", Fzo is found in postmeiotic spermatids and the dysfunction of this protein results in male sterility. However, a deletion of Fzo1 in budding yeast results in smaller, spherical mitochondria due to the lack of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA).\n\nThe balance between mitochondrial fusion and fission in cells is dictated by the up-and-down regulation of mitofusins, OPA1/Mgm1, and Drp1/Dnm1. Apoptosis, or programmed cell death, begins with the breakdown of mitochondria into smaller pieces. This process results from up-regulation of Drp1/Dnm1 and down-regulation of mitofusins. Later in the apoptosis cycle, an alteration of OPA1/Mgm1 activity within the inner mitochondrial membrane occurs. The role of the OPA1 protein is to protect cells against apoptosis by inhibiting the release of cytochrome c. Once this protein is altered, there is a change in the cristae structure, release of cytochrome c, and the activation of the destructive caspase enzymes. These resulting changes indicate that inner mitochondrial membrane structure is linked with regulatory pathways in influencing cell life and death. OPA1 plays both a genetic and molecular role in mitochondrial fusion and in cristae remodeling during apoptosis. OPA1 exists in two forms; the first being soluble and found in the intermembrane space, and the second as an integral inner membrane form, work together to restructure and shape the cristae during and after apoptosis. OPA1 blocks intramitochondrial cytochrome c redistribution which proceeds remodeling of the cristae. OPA1 functions to protect cells with mitochondrial dysfunction due to Mfn deficiencies, doubly for those lacking Mfn1 and Mfn2, but it plays a greater role in cells with only Mfn1 deficiencies as opposed to Mfn2 deficiencies. Therefore, it is supported that OPA1 function is dependent on the amount of Mfn1 present in the cell to promote mitochondrial elongation.\n\nBoth proteins, Mfn1 and Mfn2, can act either together or separately during mitochondrial fusion. Mfn1 and Mfn2 are 81% similar to each other and about 51% similar to the \"Drosophila\" protein Fzo. Results published for a study to determine the impact of fusion on mitochondrial structure revealed that Mfn-deficient cells demonstrated either elongated cells (majority) or small, spherical cells upon observation.\n\nThe Mfn protein has three different methods of action: Mfn1 homotypic oligomers, Mfn2 homotypic oligomers and Mfn1-Mfn2 heterotypic oligomers. It has been suggested that the type of cell determines the method of action but it has yet to be concluded whether or not Mfn1 and Mfn2 perform the same function in the process or if they are separate. Cells lacking this protein are subject to severe cellular defects such as poor cell growth, heterogeneity of mitochondrial membrane potential and decreased cellular respiration.\n\nMitochondrial fusion plays an important role in the process of embroygenesis, as shown through the Mfn1 and Mfn2 proteins. Using Mfn1 and Mfn2 knock-out mice, which die in utero at midgestation due to a placental deficiency, mitochondrial fusion was shown not to be essential for cell survival in vitro, but necessary for embryonic development and cell survival throughout later stages of development. Mfn1 Mfn2 double knock-out mice, which die even earlier in development, were distinguished from the \"single\" knock-out mice. Mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEFs) originated from the double knock-out mice, which do survive in culture even though there is a complete absence of fusion, but parts of their mitochondria show a reduced mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) copy number and lose membrane potential. This series of events causes problems with adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthesis.\n\nThe Mitochondrial Inner/Outer Membrane Fusion (MMF) Family (TC# 9.B.25) is a family of proteins that play a role in mitochondrial fusion events. This family belongs to the larger Mitochondrial Carrier (MC) Superfamily. The dynamic nature of mitochondria is critical for function. Chen and Chan (2010) have discussed the molecular basis of mitochondrial fusion, its protective role in neurodegeneration, and its importance in cellular function. The mammalian mitofusins Mfn1 and Mfn2, GTPases localized to the outer membrane, mediate outer-membrane fusion. OPA1, a GTPase associated with the inner membrane, mediates subsequent inner-membrane fusion. Mutations in Mfn2 or OPA1 cause neurodegenerative diseases. Mitochondrial fusion enables content mixing within a mitochondrial population, thereby preventing permanent loss of essential components. Cells with reduced mitochondrial fusion show a subpopulation of mitochondria that lack mtDNA nucleoids. Such mtDNA defects lead to respiration-deficient mitochondria, and their accumulation in neurons leads to impaired outgrowth of cellular processes and consequent neurodegeneration.\n\nA representative list of the proteins belonging to the MMF family is available in the Transporter Classification Database.\n\nMfn1 and Mfn2 (TC# 9.B.25.2.1; Q8IWA4 and O95140, respectively), in mammalian cells are required for mitochondrial fusion, Mfn1 and Mfn2 possess functional distinctions. For instance, the formation of tethered structures \"in vitro\" occurs more readily when mitochondria are isolated from cells overexpressing Mfn1 than Mfn2. In addition, Mfn2 specifically has been shown to associate with Bax and Bak (Bcl-2 family, TC#1.A.21), resulting in altered Mfn2 activity, indicating that the mitofusins possess unique functional characteristics. Lipidic holes may open on opposing bilayers as intermediates, and fusion in cardiac myocytes is coupled with outer mitochondrial membrane destabilization that is opportunistically employed during the mitochondrial permeability transition.\n\nMutations in Mfn2 (but not Mfn1) result in the neurological disorder Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome. These mutations can be complemented by the formation of Mfn1–Mfn2 hetero-oligomers but not homo-oligomers of Mfn2–Mfn2 This suggests that within the Mfn1–Mfn2 hetero-oligomeric complex, each molecule is functionally distinct. This suggests that control of the expression levels of each protein likely represents the most basic form of regulation to alter mitochondrial dynamics in mammalian tissues. Indeed, the expression levels of Mfn1 and Mfn2 vary according to cell or tissue type as does the mitochondrial morphology.\n\nIn yeast, three proteins are essential for mitochondrial fusion. Fzo1 (P38297) and Mgm1 (P32266) are conserved guanosine triphosphatases that reside in the outer and inner membranes, respectively. At each membrane, these conserved proteins are required for the distinct steps of membrane tethering and lipid mixing. The third essential component is Ugo1, an outer membrane protein with a region homologous to but distantly related to a region in the Mitochondrial Carrier (MC) family. Hoppins \"et al.\", 2009 showed that Ugo1 is a modified member of this family, containing three transmembrane domains and existing as a dimer, a structure that is critical for the fusion function of Ugo1. Their analyses of Ugo1 indicate that it is required for both outer and inner membrane fusion after membrane tethering, indicating that it operates at the lipid-mixing step of fusion. This role is distinct from the fusion dynamin-related proteins and thus demonstrates that at each membrane, a single fusion protein is not sufficient to drive the lipid-mixing step. Instead, this step requires a more complex assembly of proteins. The formation of a fusion pore has not yet been demonstrated. The Ugo1 protein is a member of the MC superfamily.\n\n"}
{"id": "3364364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3364364", "title": "Monoicous", "text": "Monoicous\n\nMonoicous plants are those species that bear both sperm and eggs on the same gametophyte. Dioicous plants are those that have gametophytes that produce only sperm or eggs but never both. The terms are used largely but not exclusively in the context of bryophytes. Both monoicous and dioicous gametophytes produce gametes in gametangia by mitosis rather than meiosis, so that sperm and eggs are genetically identical with their parent gametophyte. The states of being monoicous or dioicous are called monoicy and dioicy respectively.\n\nThe word monoicous and the related forms mon(o)ecious are derived from the Greek mόνος (\"mónos\"), \"single\", and οἶκος (\"oîkos\") or οἰκία (\"oikía\"), \"house\". The words dioicous and di(o)ecious are derived from οἶκος or οἰκία and δι- (di-), twice, double. (\"(o)e\" is the Latin way of transliterating Greek οι, whereas \"oi\" is a more straightforward modern way.) Generally, the terms \"monoicous\" and \"dioicous\" have been restricted to description of haploid sexuality (gametophytic sexuality), and are thus used primarily to describe bryophytes in which the gametophyte is the dominant generation. Meanwhile, \"monoecious\" and \"dioecious\" are used to describe diploid sexuality (sporophytic sexuality), and thus are used to describe tracheophytes (vascular plants) in which the sporophyte is the dominant generation. However, this usage, although precise, is not universal, and \"monoecious\" and \"dioecious\" are still used by some bryologists for the gametophyte.\n\nBryophytes have life cycles that are gametophyte dominated. The longer lived, more prominent autotrophic plant is the gametophyte. The sporophyte in mosses and liverworts consists of an unbranched stalk (a seta) bearing a single sporangium or spore-producing capsule. Even when capable of photosynthesis, as in mosses and hornworts, bryophyte sporophytes require additional photosynthate from the gametophyte to sustain growth and spore development and are dependent on the gametophyte for their supplies of water, mineral nutrients and nitrogen.\n\nAntheridia and archegonia are often clustered. A cluster of antheridia is called an androecium while a cluster of archegonia is called a gynoecium. (Note these terms have a different meaning when used to refer to flower structures.)\n\nBryophytes have the most elaborate gametophytes of all living land plants, and thus have a wide variety of gametangium positions and developmental patterns.\n\nGametangia are typically borne on the tips of shoots, but may also be found in the axils of leaves, under thalli or on elaborate structures called gametangiophores.\n\nBryophyte species may be:\n\n\nThere can be both selective advantages and selective disadvantages for organisms that are monoicous or dioicous. Monoicous bryophytes can easily reproduce sexually, since both sexes can be found on the same organism. On the other hand, this can lead to inbreeding and reduce genetic variation within populations. Dioicous organisms necessarily exchange genes with other organisms of the species during sexual reproduction, increasing heterozygosity and variability (given a sufficiently large variable mating population). If isolated, however, organisms may only reproduce asexually, which could present a severe selective disadvantage over time. Bryophyte sperm dispersal can therefore be key to species longevity, particularly in dioicous species. While sperm dispersal is typically passive, with sperm dispersing through water, certain species exhibit very active dispersal mechanisms, such as aerial dispersal recently described in the liverwort \"Conocephalum conicum\".\n"}
{"id": "1502970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1502970", "title": "Moyamoya disease", "text": "Moyamoya disease\n\nMoyamoya disease is a disease in which certain arteries in the brain are constricted. Blood flow is blocked by the constriction, and also by blood clots (thrombosis).\n\nA collateral circulation develops around the blocked vessels to compensate for the blockage, but the collateral vessels are small, weak, and prone to bleeding, aneurysm and thrombosis. On conventional X-ray angiography, these collateral vessels have the appearance of a \"puff of smoke\" (described as \"もやもや (moyamoya)\" in Japanese).\n\nWhen moyamoya is diagnosed by itself, with no underlying correlational conditions, it is diagnosed as moyamoya disease. This is also the case when the arterial constriction and collateral circulation are bilateral. Moyamoya syndrome is unilateral arterial constriction, or occurs when one of the several specified conditions is also present. This may also be considered as moyamoya being secondary to the primary condition.\nMainly, occlusion of the distal internal carotid artery occurs. On angiography, a \"puff of smoke\" appearance is seen, and the treatment of choice is surgical bypass.\n\nAbout 10% of cases of moyamoya disease are familial, and some cases result from specific genetic mutations. Susceptibility to moyamoya disease-2 (MYMY2; 607151) is caused by variation in the RNF213 gene (613768) on chromosome 17q25. Moyamoya disease-5 (MYMY5; 614042) is caused by mutation in the ACTA2 gene (102620) on the long arm of chromosome 10 (10q23.3); and moyamoya disease-6 with achalasia (MYMY6; 615750) is caused by mutation in the GUCY1A3 gene (139396) on the long arm of chromosome 4 (4q32). Loci for the disorder have been mapped to the short arm of chromosome 3 (MYMY1) and the long arm of chromosome 8 (8q23) (MYMY3; 608796). See also MYMY4 (300845), an X-linked recessive syndromic disorder characterized by moyamoya disease, short stature, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, and facial dysmorphism. and linked to q25.3, on chromosome 17. (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, omim.org/entry/252350).\n\nIn Japan the overall incidence is higher (0.35 per 100,000). In North America, women in the third or fourth decade of life are most often affected, but the condition may also occur during infancy or childhood. These women frequently experience transient ischaemic attacks (TIA), cerebral hemorrhage, or may not experience any symptoms at all. They have a higher risk of recurrent stroke and may be experiencing a distinct underlying pathophysiology compared to patients from Japan.\n\nMoyamoya disease can be either congenital or acquired. Patients with Down syndrome, sickle cell anemia, neurofibromatosis type 1, congenital heart disease, fibromuscular dysplasia, activated protein C resistance, or head trauma can develop moyamoya malformations. It is more common in women than in men, although about a third of those affected are male.\n\nThe disease moyamoya, which is a Japanese mimetic word, gets its characteristic name due to the appearance of smoke on relevant angiographs resultant from the tangle of tiny vessels in response to stenosis. This makes the blood leak out of the arteries, causing pressure to the brain and subsequent headaches. The pathogenesis of moyamoya disease is unknown, although the gene ring finger protein 213 (RNF213) has been implicated.\n\nOnce it begins, the vascular occlusion tends to continue despite any known medical management. In some people this leads to transient ischemic attacks or repeated strokes with severe functional impairment or even death. In others, the blockage may not cause any symptoms.\n\nThe disease causes constrictions primarily in the internal carotid artery, and often extends to the middle and anterior cerebral arteries, branches of the internal carotid artery inside the skull. When the internal carotid artery becomes completely blocked, the fine collateral circulation that it supplies is obliterated. Patients often survive on the collateral circulation from the back (posterior) of the circle of Willis, arising from the basilar artery.\n\nThe arterial constrictions in moyamoya disease are unlike the constrictions in atherosclerosis. In atherosclerosis, the walls of arteries are damaged, leading to the deposition of fat and immune cells, and ultimately the accumulation of immune cells laden with fat. In moyamoya, the inner layer of the carotid artery proliferates within the arterial lumen. The artery also fills with blood clots, which may cause strokes.\n\nMoyamoya disease tends to affect adults in the third to fourth decade of life. In children it tends to cause strokes or seizures. In adults it tends to cause strokes or bleeding. The clinical features are strokes, recurrent transient ischemic attacks (TIAs), sensorimotor paralysis (numbness and paralysis of the extremities), convulsions and/or migraine-like headaches. Moreover, following a stroke, secondary bleeding may occur. Such bleeding, called hemorrhagic strokes, may also stem from rupture of the weak neovascular vessel walls.\n\nThe diagnosis of moyamoya is suggested by CT, MRI, or angiogram results. Contrast-enhanced T1-weighted images are better than FLAIR images for depicting the leptomeningeal ivy sign in moyamoya disease. MRI and MRA should be performed for the diagnosis and follow-up of moyamoya disease. Diffusion-weighted imaging can also be used for following the clinical course of children with moyamoya disease, in whom new focal deficits are highly suspicious of new infarcts.\n\nProliferation of smooth muscle cells in the walls of the moyamoya-affected arteries has been found to be representative of the disease. A study of six autopsies of six patients who died from moyamoya disease lead to the finding that there is evidence that supports the theory that there is a thickening, or proliferation, of the innermost layer of the vessels affected by moyamoya. These vessels are the ACA (anterior cerebral artery), MCA (middle cerebral artery), and ICA (internal carotid artery). The occlusion of the ICA results in concomitant diminution of the \"puff-of-smoke\" collaterals, as they are supplied by the ICA. \n\nOften nuclear medicine studies such as SPECT (single photon emission computerized tomography) are used to demonstrate the decreased blood and oxygen supply to areas of the brain involved with moyamoya disease. Conventional angiography provided the conclusive diagnosis of moyamoya disease in most cases and should be performed before any surgical considerations.\n\nDr. Darren B. Orbach, MD, PhD explains how the disease progresses as well as the role angiography plays in detecting the progression of Moyamoya in a short video \n\nSmith (2015) conducted a study that looked into specific biological markers that correlate to moyamoya disease. Some of the categories of these biomarkers include phenotypes - conditions commonly related to moyamoya, radiographical markers for the diagnosis of moyamoya, and proteins as well as cellular changes that occur in cases of moyamoya.\n\nSimilar to Moyamoya disease, there are conditions that are closely associated with Moyamoya disease. Some of the more common medical conditions that are closely associated with Moyamoya disease include trisomy 21 (Down's Syndrome), sickle cell disease, and neurofibromatosis type 1. There is also evidence that identifies hyperthyroidism and congenital dwarfing syndromes as two of the more loosely associated syndromes that correlate with the possibility of being diagnosed with Moyamoya disease later in life.\n\nThere is also research that has shown that certain radiographic biomarkers that lead to the diagnosis of moyamoya disease have been identified. The specific radiographic markers are now considered an acceptable key component to Moyamoya Disease and have been added to the International Classification of Diseases (ICD). These biomarkers of moyamoya are \"stenosis of the distal ICA's up to and including the bifurcation, along with segments of the proximal ACA and MCA...dilated basal collateral vessels must be present\" Some other common findings that have not been added to the classification index of those with moyamoya disease which are found using radiography involve very distinct changes in the vessels of the brain. These changes include newly formed vessels made to compensate for another change noted, ischemia and cerebrovascular reserve, both found on MRI. Functional changes include evidence of ischemia in vessels of the brain (ICA, ACA, MCA, specifically). It is important to also note that the radiographic biomarkers, in order to be classified as moyamoya disease, all findings must be bilateral. If this is not the case and the findings are unilateral, it is diagnosed as Moyamoya Syndrome. \n\nThere are also several protein biomarkers that have been linked to the Moyamoya disease diagnosis. Although the sample size of the studies performed are small due to the rarity of the disease, the findings are indicative of a correlation between the disease and several specific protein biomarkers. Other studies have confirmed the correlation of Moyamoya and adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) being increased as compared to normal vascular function counterparts. Furthermore, it has been concluded that the localization of inflammatory cells suggests that the inflammation stimulus iteself may be responsible for the proliferation and occlusion in the ICA, ACA, and MCA found in those with Moyamoya disease. \n\nThere is no cure for this disease. Drugs such as antiplatelet agents (including aspirin) are usually given to prevent clots, but surgery is usually recommended. Since moyamoya tends to affect only the internal carotid artery and nearby sections of the adjacent anterior and middle cerebral arteries, surgeons can direct other arteries, such as the external carotid artery or the superficial temporal artery to replace its circulation. The arteries are either sewn directly into the brain circulation, or placed on the surface of the brain to reestablish new circulation after a few weeks.\n\nThere are many operations that have been developed for the condition, but currently the most favored are the in-direct procedures EDAS, EMS, and multiple burr holes and the direct procedure STA-MCA. Direct superficial temporal artery (STA) to middle cerebral artery (MCA) bypass is considered the treatment of choice, although its efficacy, particularly for hemorrhagic disease, remains uncertain. Multiple burr holes have been used in frontal and parietal lobes with good neovascularisation achieved.\n\nThe EDAS (encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis) procedure is a synangiosis procedure that requires dissection of a scalp artery over a course of several centimeters and then making a small temporary opening in the skull directly beneath the artery. The artery is then sutured to a branch of the middle cerebral artery on the surface of the brain and the bone is replaced.\n\nIn the EMS (encephalomyosynangiosis) procedure, the temporalis muscle, which is in the temple region of the forehead, is dissected and through an opening in the skull placed onto the surface of the brain.\n\nIn the multiple burr holes procedure, multiple small holes (burr holes) are placed in the skull to allow for growth of new vessels into the brain from the scalp.\n\nIn the STA-MCA procedure, the scalp artery (superficial temporal artery or STA) is directly sutured to an artery on the surface of the brain (middle cerebral artery or MCA). This procedure is also commonly referred to as an EC-IC (External Carotid-Internal Carotid) bypass.\n\nAll of these operations have in common the concept of a blood and oxygen \"starved\" brain reaching out to grasp and develop new and more efficient means of bringing blood to the brain and bypassing the areas of blockage. The modified direct anastomosis and encephalo-myo-arterio-synangiosis play a role in this improvement by increasing cerebral blood flow (CBF) after the operation. A significant correlation is found between the postoperative effect and the stages of preoperative angiograms. It is crucial for surgery that the anesthesiologist have experience in managing children being treated for moyamoya, as the type of anesthesia they require is very different from the standard anesthetic children get for almost any other type of neurosurgical procedure.\n\nSome of the most up to date treatments for Moyamoya are explained by top rated surgeons at Boston Children's Hospital in Massachusetts in these \n\nThe natural history of this disorder is not well known. The long term outlook for patients with treated moyamoya seems to be good. While symptoms may seem to improve almost immediately after the in-direct EDAS, EMS, and multiple burr holes surgeries, it will take probably 6–12 months before new vessels can develop to give a sufficient blood supply. With the direct STA-MCA surgery, increased blood supply is immediate.\n\nOnce a major stroke or bleeding takes place, even with treatment, the patient may be left with permanent loss of function so it is very important to treat this condition promptly.\n\nRecent investigations have established that both moyamoya disease and arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs) of the lining of the brain, the dura, are associated with dural angiogenesis. These factors may represent a mechanism for ischemia contributing to the formation of dural AVFs. At least one case of simultaneous unilateral moyamoya syndrome and ipsilateral dural arteriovenous fistula has been reported at the Barrow Neurological Institute. In this case a 44-year-old man presented with headache, tinnitus, and an intraventricular hemorrhage, as seen on computed tomographic scans. Cerebral angiography showed a right moyamoya pattern and an ipsilateral dural AVF fed by branches of the external carotid artery and draining into the transverse sinus. This extremely rare coincidental presentation may have deeper pathogenic implications.\n\n"}
{"id": "3129875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3129875", "title": "Ogdru Hem", "text": "Ogdru Hem\n\nThe Ogdru Hem are fictional creatures in the Hellboy universe. After awakening, the demonic Ogdru Jahad gave birth to the 369 Ogdru Hem. The Ogdru Hem are essentially weaker versions of their parents, but even so they wield unimaginable power. All of the Ogdru Hem were imprisoned by the Watchers, but many are now re-emerging, with the aid of Rasputin and other agents of the Ogdru Jahad.\n\nMany of the Ogdru Hem are without bodies and exist, invisibly, in the air. These evil spirits are used to help raise the Ogdru Hem that have bodies (such as Katha-Hem) out of their earthly prisons.\n\nImprisoned on Earth so that the Ogdru Jahad would \"always have a foothold in the world from which they were banished\", Physically, Sadu-Hem appeared as a gruesome fungal mass of tentacles and snapping claws, with a cluster of eyes and feelers serving as its head. Sadu-Hem was discovered by Rasputin in the Gorinium temple at the top of the Arctic Circle. Rasputin remained in a trance near the statue until he was awakened the arrival of Professor Trevor Bruttenholm and the Cavendish exploration party. The newly revived being devoured most of Bruttenholm's exploration party, turning the Cavendish brothers and Sven Olafssen into frog creatures. Bruttenholm was allowed, under heavy psychological compulsion, to return to America to enact Rasputin's scheme to bring Hellboy to Cavendish Hall, with Sadu-Hem installed in the underground caverns. Sadu-Hem was to act as the conduit between Rasputin and the Ogdru Jahad, but was destroyed after Abe Sapien speared Rasputin to death and Liz Sherman set the entire place on fire.\n\nAlthough Sadu-Hem was apparently destroyed, a small piece of the creature was discovered in the Cavendish Hall ruins over a decade later. Director Manning had the specimen of fungus preserved in a New Jersey lab, until Sadu-Hem grew strong enough to possess a human host and escape. Fleeing to Crab Point, Michigan, Sadu-Hem converted an entire town into vicious frog monsters before he was again immolated by Liz Sherman.\n\nAt the end of the first Hellboy film, Rasputin releases from his body a giant monster simply referred to as the Behemoth, which Hellboy fights and destroys. The Behemoth's appearance is similar to Sadu-Hem.\n\nUrgo-Hem was freed from imprisonment through the blood of a 16th-century Spanish priest. The priest had spent time in Tenochtitlan before it burned, and had learned the history of the Ogdru Hem there. After being persecuted by the inquisition for his knowledge, the priest was eventually squirrelled away by a secret order dedicated to preserving treasures of the ancient world. When Hellboy stumbled across him, the priest's blood released Urgo-Hem. Apparently an aquatic beast, this child of the Ogdru Jahad resembled an eyeless serpent with sharp crustacean legs lining its pale underbelly. After a bloody conflict, Urgo Hem impaled itself on the mast of a nearby shipwreck, and Hellboy escaped.\n\nA creature similar in appearance to Urgo-Hem appears in \"The Sword of Storms\" animated film, where Liz immolates it, after a prolonged battle near the ocean.\n\nKatha-Hem was the third of the Ogdru Hem to be set loose upon the world, and by far the most powerful. While Sadu-Hem was foretold to bring about the plague of frogs, the arrival of Katha-Hem was an indication that the world would begin to change. \n\nSummoned out of the ether by the occult rituals of the frog monsters and the Zinco Corporation's Mr. Pope, (also known as the Black Flame) Katha-Hem towered as large as a mountain and began marching across the Midwestern United States. Atop a tripod of spidery legs, Katha-Hem resembled a twisted, tentacled tree, its canopy an inferno of hellish blue fire, and numerous green-toothed maws lining its trunk. American artillery failed to make a dent in the mammoth creature, while any humans who ventured too close were turned into monsters by a strange green gas emitted from its body. Just as the President was about to resort to a nuclear strike, the BPRD's Liz Sherman managed to burn Katha-Hem to ashes, using an ancient artifact that mysteriously amplified her powers a thousand times.\n\nThe Conqueror Worm from the story of the same name was a member of a race of space-born monsters, who wished to destroy the Earth. It possessed abilities similar to the Ogdru Hem such as turning people into frog monsters (like Sadu-Hem and Katha Hem) with its otherworldly breath and was preparing to devour the entire planet when it was defeated by Roger the Homunculus with aid from the ghost of Lobster Johnson. It was told that once the Worm had destroyed all life on earth, it would call out to the rest of its space-borne brethren who would then use their power to restore the Ogdru Hem who would then release the Ogdru Jahad from their prison.\n\nThis creature emerges from the Salton Sea during the worldwide upheaval seemingly caused by Liz Sherman. It has a reptilian/crustacean body with a long neck and arthropod-like head, from which emit scarlet-coloured vapours that cause humans who inhale them (such as the crew and passengers of a passing airliner) to mutate into grey, arthropod-like monsters.\n\nWhen the Black Flame is returned to Earth, the Monster begins to walk off in an unspecified direction, leaving some eggs in its wake. One of these eggs hatches and goes into the Salton Sea, where it dies (as discovered by Abe Sapien during his visit to the Sea), and another is destroyed by Fenix to undermine a cult that has formed around it.\n"}
{"id": "1945739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945739", "title": "Orbital ring", "text": "Orbital ring\n\nAn orbital ring is a concept for a space elevator that consists of an artificial ring placed around the Earth that rotates at an angular rate that is faster than the rotation of the Earth. It is a giant formation of astroengineering proportions.\n\nThe structure is intended to be used as a space station or as a planetary vehicle for very high speed transportation or space launch.\n\nThe original orbital ring concept is related to the space fountain and launch loop.\n\nIn the 1870s Nikola Tesla, while recovering from malaria, conceived a number of inventions including a ring around the equator, although he did not include detailed calculations. As recounted in his autobiography \"My Inventions\" (1919):\nArthur C. Clarke's novel \"The Fountains of Paradise\" (1979) is about space elevators, but an appendix mentions the idea of launching objects off the Earth using a structure based on mass drivers. The idea apparently did not work, but this inspired further research.\n\nPaul Birch published a series of three articles in the \"Journal of the British Interplanetary Society\" in 1982. Anatoly E. Yunitskiy, author of string transport idea, also published a similar idea in USSR in 1982 and later explored it in detail in his book published in 1995.\n\nAndrew Meulenberg and his students, from 2008 to 2011, presented and published a number of papers based on types and applications of low-Earth-orbital rings as man's \"stepping-stones-to-space\". An overview mentions four applications of orbital rings.\n\nSeveral different methods and designs have been suggested for the construction of an orbital ring.\n\nA simple unsupported hoop about a planet is unstable: it would crash into the Earth if left unattended. The orbital ring concept requires cables to the surface to stabilize it, with the outward centrifugal force providing tension on the cables, and the tethers stabilizing the ring.\n\nIn the simplest design of an orbital ring system, a rotating cable or possibly an inflatable space structure is placed in a low Earth orbit above the equator, rotating at faster than orbital speed. Not in orbit, but riding on this ring, supported electromagnetically on superconducting magnets, are ring stations that stay in one place above some designated point on Earth. Hanging down from these ring stations are short space elevators made from cables with high-tensile-strength-to-mass-ratio materials.\n\nAlthough this simple model would work best above the equator, Paul Birch calculated that since the ring station can be used to accelerate the orbital ring eastwards as well as hold the tether, it is therefore possible to deliberately cause the orbital ring to precess around the Earth instead of staying fixed in space while the Earth rotates beneath it. By precessing the ring once every 24 hours, the Orbital Ring will hover above any meridian selected on the surface of the Earth. The cables which dangle from the ring are now geostationary without having to reach geostationary altitude or without having to be placed into the equatorial plane. This means that using the Orbital Ring concept, one or many pairs of Stations can be positioned above \"any\" points on Earth desired or can be moved everywhere on the globe. Thus, any point on Earth can be served by a space elevator. Also a whole network of orbital rings can be built, which, by crossing over the poles, could cover the whole planet and be capable of taking over most of freight and passenger transport. By an array of elevators and several geostationary ring stations, asteroid or Moon material can be received and gently put down where land fills are needed. The electric energy generated in the process would pay for the system expansion and ultimately could pave the way for a solar-system-wide terraforming- and astroengineering-activity on a sound economical basis.\n\nIf built by launching the necessary materials from Earth, the cost for the system estimated by Birch in 1980s money was around $31 billion (for a \"bootstrap\" system intended to expand to 1000 times its initial size over the following year, which would otherwise cost 31 trillion dollars) if launched using Shuttle-derived hardware, whereas it could fall to $15 billion with space-based manufacturing, assuming a large orbital manufacturing facility is available to provide the initial 180,000 tonnes of steel, aluminium, and slag at a low cost, and even lower with orbital rings around the Moon. The system's cost per kilogram to place payloads in orbit would be around $0.05.\n\nGeneral Planetary Vehicle (GPV) - a Anatoly Yunitskiy's project for the removal of weight at low circumplanet orbit. GPV is a ring located on the equator of the Earth (or parallel to the equator) consisting of individual segments connected (for example) by hydraulic cylinders. Inside the ring segments there are cells for placing the payload and necessary equipment. The heart of the GPV consists of two circular channels passing through all the segments of the ring. High vacuum is kept up in the channels and they are completely isolated from the environment. Inside these channels there are two magnetically levitated flywheel rotors assembled from small metal and flexible (e.g., polymer) segments. The flywheel rotors are held by an electromagnetic system mounted inside the GPV shell, according to the principle of magnetic levitation and act as the rotors of the giant motor (capable of operating in a generator mode as well).\n\nThe GPV ring is located on a specially equipped overpass, encircling the Earth. In the initial condition it is fixed on the overpass.\n\nWith the help of an external energy source one of the rotors spins up to speed higher than the First Cosmic Velocity at sea level (i.e. orbital speed at sea level, same as the escape velocity divided by root two). Due to the centrifugal force, the rotor (having reached the First Cosmic Velocity) balances itself and then seeks to \"fly\" up, producing lift force. The rotor's speed is to be a little more than necessary to balance the ring.\n\nAfter releasing the clamp the GPV ring begins to rise up (increasing its radius, and accordingly, the diameter). Thus, the hydraulic cylinders and gaps between the segments allow the formation to increase its length. The belt rotor stretches by 2-5% due to its elasticity. Having achieved the required height the rotor transfers to the generator mode, and the electricity generated is used to boost the second rotor in the opposite direction. As a result, the GPV accelerates to achieve the First Cosmic Velocity on a low Earth orbit. The height reached by the GPV is determined by the abundant rotor’s initial kinetic energy and the capability of its body structure and rotors to stretch.\n\nOn the equatorial orbit the GPV is unloaded into stationary orbit cells located at the same orbital altitude in the plane of the equator.\n\nLanding is carried out similarly in the reverse order.\n\nThe simplest type would be a circular orbital ring in LEO.\n\nTwo other types were also defined by Paul Birch:\n\nIn addition, he proposed the concept of \"supramundane worlds\" such as supra-jovian and supra-stellar \"planets\". These are artificial planets that would be supported by a grid of orbital rings that would be positioned above a planet, supergiant or even a star.\n\nThe manga \"Battle Angel Alita\" prominently features a slightly deteriorated orbital ring.\n\nThe second iteration of the anime series \"Tekkaman\" features a complete ring, though abandoned and in disrepair due to war, and without surface tethers.\n\nIn the movie \"Starship Troopers\", an orbital ring is shown encircling the Moon.\n\nThe anime series \"Kiddy Grade\" also uses orbital rings as a launch and docking bay for spaceships. These rings are connected to large towers extending from the planets surface.\n\nThe anime \"Mobile Suit Gundam 00\" also prominently features an orbital ring, which consists primarily of linked solar panels. The ring is connected to earth via three space elevators. This ring effectively provides near unlimited power to earth. Later in the series the ring also shows space stations mounted on its surface.\n\nOrbital rings are used extensively in the collaborative fiction worldbuilding website \"Orion's Arm\".\n\nArthur C. Clarke’s \"\" features an orbital ring held aloft by four enormous inhabitable towers (assumed successors to space elevators) at the Equator.\n\nIn the close of Arthur C. Clarke's \"Fountains of Paradise\", a reference is made to an orbital ring that is attached in the distant future to the space elevator that is the basis of the novel.\n\nThe game \"X3 Terran Conflict\" features a free-floating orbital ring around the Earth, which is shattered by an explosion and subsequently de-orbited in \"\"\n\nIn the Warhammer 40,000 universe, Mars has a large orbital ring called the Ring of Steel. It is primarily used as a shipyard for interstellar craft. It is the largest man made structure in the galaxy.\n\nIn the game Xenoblade Chronicles 2 there is a giant tree that has grown around the base of an Orbital Ring.\n\nThe third part of Neal Stephenson's book Seveneves has an orbital ring around a moon-less earth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "63753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63753", "title": "Rationalism", "text": "Rationalism\n\nIn philosophy, rationalism is the epistemological view that \"regards reason as the chief source and test of knowledge\" or \"any view appealing to reason as a source of knowledge or justification\". More formally, rationalism is defined as a methodology or a theory \"in which the criterion of the truth is not sensory but intellectual and deductive\".\n\nIn an old controversy, rationalism was opposed to empiricism, where the rationalists believed that reality has an intrinsically logical structure. Because of this, the rationalists argued that certain truths exist and that the intellect can directly grasp these truths. That is to say, rationalists asserted that certain rational principles exist in logic, mathematics, ethics, and metaphysics that are so fundamentally true that denying them causes one to fall into contradiction. The rationalists had such a high confidence in reason that empirical proof and physical evidence were regarded as unnecessary to ascertain certain truths – in other words, \"there are significant ways in which our concepts and knowledge are gained independently of sense experience\".\n\nDifferent degrees of emphasis on this method or theory lead to a range of rationalist standpoints, from the moderate position \"that reason has precedence over other ways of acquiring knowledge\" to the more extreme position that reason is \"the unique path to knowledge\". Given a pre-modern understanding of reason, rationalism is identical to philosophy, the Socratic life of inquiry, or the zetetic (skeptical) clear interpretation of authority (open to the underlying or essential cause of things as they appear to our sense of certainty). In recent decades, Leo Strauss sought to revive \"Classical Political Rationalism\" as a discipline that understands the task of reasoning, not as foundational, but as maieutic.\n\nIn politics, rationalism, since the Enlightenment, historically emphasized a \"politics of reason\" centered upon rational choice, utilitarianism, secularism, and irreligion – the latter aspect's antitheism was later softened by the adoption of pluralistic methods practicable regardless of religious or irreligious ideology.\n\nIn this regard, the philosopher John Cottingham noted how rationalism, a methodology, became socially conflated with atheism, a worldview:\nRationalism is often contrasted with empiricism. Taken very broadly these views are not mutually exclusive, since a philosopher can be both rationalist and empiricist. Taken to extremes, the empiricist view holds that all ideas come to us \"a posteriori\", that is to say, through experience; either through the external senses or through such inner sensations as pain and gratification. The empiricist essentially believes that knowledge is based on or derived directly from experience. The rationalist believes we come to knowledge \"a priori\" – through the use of logic – and is thus independent of sensory experience. In other words, as Galen Strawson once wrote, \"you can see that it is true just lying on your couch. You don't have to get up off your couch and go outside and examine the way things are in the physical world. You don't have to do any science.\" Between both philosophies, the issue at hand is the fundamental source of human knowledge and the proper techniques for verifying what we think we know. Whereas both philosophies are under the umbrella of epistemology, their argument lies in the understanding of the warrant, which is under the wider epistemic umbrella of the theory of justification.\n\nThe theory of justification is the part of epistemology that attempts to understand the justification of propositions and beliefs. Epistemologists are concerned with various epistemic features of belief, which include the ideas of justification, warrant, rationality, and probability. Of these four terms, the term that has been most widely used and discussed by the early 21st century is \"warrant\". Loosely speaking, justification is the reason that someone (probably) holds a belief.\n\nIf \"A\" makes a claim, and \"B\" then casts doubt on it, \"A\"'s next move would normally be to provide justification. The precise method one uses to provide justification is where the lines are drawn between rationalism and empiricism (among other philosophical views). Much of the debate in these fields are focused on analyzing the nature of knowledge and how it relates to connected notions such as truth, belief, and justification.\n\nAt its core, rationalism consists of three basic claims. For one to consider themselves a rationalist, they must adopt at least one of these three claims: The Intuition/Deduction Thesis, The Innate Knowledge Thesis, or The Innate Concept Thesis. In addition, rationalists can choose to adopt the claims of Indispensability of Reason and or the Superiority of Reason – although one can be a rationalist without adopting either thesis.\n\nRationale: \"Some propositions in a particular subject area, S, are knowable by us by intuition alone; still others are knowable by being deduced from intuited propositions.\"<ref name=\"The Intuition/Deduction Thesis\">Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, The Intuition/Deduction Thesis First published August 19, 2004; substantive revision March 31, 2013 cited on May 20, 2013.</ref>\n\nGenerally speaking, intuition is \"a priori\" knowledge or experiential belief characterized by its immediacy; a form of rational insight. We simply \"see\" something in such a way as to give us a warranted belief. Beyond that, the nature of intuition is hotly debated.\n\nIn the same way, generally speaking, deduction is the process of reasoning from one or more general premises to reach a logically certain conclusion. Using valid arguments, we can deduce from intuited premises.\n\nFor example, when we combine both concepts, we can intuit that the number three is prime and that it is greater than two. We then deduce from this knowledge that there is a prime number greater than two. Thus, it can be said that intuition and deduction combined to provide us with \"a priori\" knowledge – we gained this knowledge independently of sense experience.\n\nEmpiricists such as David Hume have been willing to accept this thesis for describing the relationships among our own concepts. In this sense, empiricists argue that we are allowed to intuit and deduce truths from knowledge that has been obtained \"a posteriori\".\n\nBy injecting different subjects into the Intuition/Deduction thesis, we are able to generate different arguments. Most rationalists agree mathematics is knowable by applying the intuition and deduction. Some go further to include ethical truths into the category of things knowable by intuition and deduction. Furthermore, some rationalists also claim metaphysics is knowable in this thesis.\n\nIn addition to different subjects, rationalists sometimes vary the strength of their claims by adjusting their understanding of the warrant. Some rationalists understand warranted beliefs to be beyond even the slightest doubt; others are more conservative and understand the warrant to be belief beyond a reasonable doubt.\n\nRationalists also have different understanding and claims involving the connection between intuition and truth. Some rationalists claim that intuition is infallible and that anything we intuit to be true is as such. More contemporary rationalists accept that intuition is not always a source of certain knowledge – thus allowing for the possibility of a deceiver who might cause the rationalist to intuit a false proposition in the same way a third party could cause the rationalist to have perceptions of nonexistent objects.\n\nNaturally, the more subjects the rationalists claim to be knowable by the Intuition/Deduction thesis, the more certain they are of their warranted beliefs, and the more strictly they adhere to the infallibility of intuition, the more controversial their truths or claims and the more radical their rationalism.\n\nTo argue in favor of this thesis, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, a prominent German philosopher, says, \"The senses, although they are necessary for all our actual knowledge, are not sufficient to give us the whole of it, since the senses never give anything but instances, that is to say particular or individual truths. Now all the instances which confirm a general truth, however numerous they may be, are not sufficient to establish the universal necessity of this same truth, for it does not follow that what happened before will happen in the same way again. … From which it appears that necessary truths, such as we find in pure mathematics, and particularly in arithmetic and geometry, must have principles whose proof does not depend on instances, nor consequently on the testimony of the senses, although without the senses it would never have occurred to us to think of them…\"\n\nRationale: \"We have knowledge of some truths in a particular subject area, S, as part of our rational nature.\"\n\nThe Innate Knowledge thesis is similar to the Intuition/Deduction thesis in the regard that both theses claim knowledge is gained \"a priori\". The two theses go their separate ways when describing how that knowledge is gained. As the name, and the rationale, suggests, the Innate Knowledge thesis claims knowledge is simply part of our rational nature. Experiences can trigger a process that allows this knowledge to come into our consciousness, but the experiences don't provide us with the knowledge itself. The knowledge has been with us since the beginning and the experience simply brought into focus, in the same way a photographer can bring the background of a picture into focus by changing the aperture of the lens. The background was always there, just not in focus.\n\nThis thesis targets a problem with the nature of inquiry originally postulated by Plato in \"Meno\". Here, Plato asks about inquiry; how do we gain knowledge of a theorem in geometry? We inquire into the matter. Yet, knowledge by inquiry seems impossible. In other words, \"If we already have the knowledge, there is no place for inquiry. If we lack the knowledge, we don't know what we are seeking and cannot recognize it when we find it. Either way we cannot gain knowledge of the theorem by inquiry. Yet, we do know some theorems.\" The Innate Knowledge thesis offers a solution to this paradox. By claiming that knowledge is already with us, either consciously or unconsciously, a rationalist claims we don't really \"learn\" things in the traditional usage of the word, but rather that we simply bring to light what we already know.\n\nRationale: \"We have some of the concepts we employ in a particular subject area, S, as part of our rational nature.\"\n\nSimilar to the Innate Knowledge thesis, the Innate Concept thesis suggests that some concepts are simply part of our rational nature. These concepts are \"a priori\" in nature and sense experience is irrelevant to determining the nature of these concepts (though, sense experience can help bring the concepts to our conscious mind).\n\nSome philosophers, such as John Locke (who is considered one of the most influential thinkers of the Enlightenment and an empiricist) argue that the Innate Knowledge thesis and the Innate Concept thesis are the same. Other philosophers, such as Peter Carruthers, argue that the two theses are distinct from one another. As with the other theses covered under the umbrella of rationalism, the more types and greater number of concepts a philosopher claims to be innate, the more controversial and radical their position; \"the more a concept seems removed from experience and the mental operations we can perform on experience the more plausibly it may be claimed to be innate. Since we do not experience perfect triangles but do experience pains, our concept of the former is a more promising candidate for being innate than our concept of the latter.\n\nIn his book, \"Meditations on First Philosophy\", René Descartes postulates three classifications for our ideas when he says, \"Among my ideas, some appear to be innate, some to be adventitious, and others to have been invented by me. My understanding of what a thing is, what truth is, and what thought is, seems to derive simply from my own nature. But my hearing a noise, as I do now, or seeing the sun, or feeling the fire, comes from things which are located outside me, or so I have hitherto judged. Lastly, sirens, hippogriffs and the like are my own invention.\"\n\nAdventitious ideas are those concepts that we gain through sense experiences, ideas such as the sensation of heat, because they originate from outside sources; transmitting their own likeness rather than something else and something you simply cannot will away. Ideas invented by us, such as those found in mythology, legends, and fairy tales are created by us from other ideas we possess. Lastly, innate ideas, such as our ideas of perfection, are those ideas we have as a result of mental processes that are beyond what experience can directly or indirectly provide.\n\nGottfried Wilhelm Leibniz defends the idea of innate concepts by suggesting the mind plays a role in determining the nature of concepts, to explain this, he likens the mind to a block of marble in the \"New Essays on Human Understanding\", \"This is why I have taken as an illustration a block of veined marble, rather than a wholly uniform block or blank tablets, that is to say what is called tabula rasa in the language of the philosophers. For if the soul were like those blank tablets, truths would be in us in the same way as the figure of Hercules is in a block of marble, when the marble is completely indifferent whether it receives this or some other figure. But if there were veins in the stone which marked out the figure of Hercules rather than other figures, this stone would be more determined thereto, and Hercules would be as it were in some manner innate in it, although labour would be needed to uncover the veins, and to clear them by polishing, and by cutting away what prevents them from appearing. It is in this way that ideas and truths are innate in us, like natural inclinations and dispositions, natural habits or potentialities, and not like activities, although these potentialities are always accompanied by some activities which correspond to them, though they are often imperceptible.\"\n\nThe three aforementioned theses of Intuition/Deduction, Innate Knowledge, and Innate Concept are the cornerstones of rationalism. To be considered a rationalist, one must adopt at least one of those three claims. The following two theses are traditionally adopted by rationalists, but they aren't essential to the rationalist's position.\n\nThe Indispensability of Reason Thesis has the following rationale, \"The knowledge we gain in subject area, \"S\", by intuition and deduction, as well as the ideas and instances of knowledge in \"S\" that are innate to us, could not have been gained by us through sense experience.\" In short, this thesis claims that experience cannot provide what we gain from reason.\n\nThe Superiority of Reason Thesis has the following rationale, '\"The knowledge we gain in subject area \"S\" by intuition and deduction or have innately is superior to any knowledge gained by sense experience\". In other words, this thesis claims reason is superior to experience as a source for knowledge.\n\nIn addition to the following claims, rationalists often adopt similar stances on other aspects of philosophy. Most rationalists reject skepticism for the areas of knowledge they claim are knowable \"a priori\". Naturally, when you claim some truths are innately known to us, one must reject skepticism in relation to those truths. Especially for rationalists who adopt the Intuition/Deduction thesis, the idea of epistemic foundationalism tends to crop up. This is the view that we know some truths without basing our belief in them on any others and that we then use this foundational knowledge to know more truths.\n\nRationalism - as an appeal to human reason as a way of obtaining knowledge - has a philosophical history dating from antiquity. The analytical nature of much of philosophical enquiry, the awareness of apparently a priori domains of knowledge such as mathematics, combined with the emphasis of obtaining knowledge through the use of rational faculties (commonly rejecting, for example, direct revelation) have made rationalist themes very prevalent in the history of philosophy.\n\nSince the Enlightenment, rationalism is usually associated with the introduction of mathematical methods into philosophy as seen in the works of Descartes, Leibniz, and Spinoza. This is commonly called continental rationalism, because it was predominant in the continental schools of Europe, whereas in Britain empiricism dominated.\n\nEven then, the distinction between rationalists and empiricists was drawn at a later period and would not have been recognized by the philosophers involved. Also, the distinction between the two philosophies is not as clear-cut as is sometimes suggested; for example, Descartes and Locke have similar views about the nature of human ideas.\n\nProponents of some varieties of rationalism argue that, starting with foundational basic principles, like the axioms of geometry, one could deductively derive the rest of all possible knowledge. The philosophers who held this view most clearly were Baruch Spinoza and Gottfried Leibniz, whose attempts to grapple with the epistemological and metaphysical problems raised by Descartes led to a development of the fundamental approach of rationalism. Both Spinoza and Leibniz asserted that, \"in principle\", all knowledge, including scientific knowledge, could be gained through the use of reason alone, though they both observed that this was not possible \"in practice\" for human beings except in specific areas such as mathematics. On the other hand, Leibniz admitted in his book \"Monadology\" that \"we are all mere Empirics in three fourths of our actions.\"\n\nAlthough rationalism in its modern form post-dates antiquity, philosophers from this time laid down the foundations of rationalism. In particular, the understanding that we may be aware of knowledge available only through the use of rational thought. \n\nAjita Kesakambali was an ancient Indian philosopher in the 6th century BCE. He is considered to be the first known proponent of Indian materialism, and forerunner to the Charvaka school of Indian thought, which holds direct perception, empiricism, and conditional inference as proper sources of knowledge, embraces philosophical skepticism and rejects Vedas, Vedic ritualism, and supernaturalism.\n\nPythagoras was one of the first Western philosophers to stress rationalist insight. He is often revered as a great mathematician, mystic and scientist, but he is best known for the Pythagorean theorem, which bears his name, and for discovering the mathematical relationship between the length of strings on lute and the pitches of the notes. Pythagoras \"believed these harmonies reflected the ultimate nature of reality. He summed up the implied metaphysical rationalism in the words \"All is number\". It is probable that he had caught the rationalist's vision, later seen by Galileo (1564–1642), of a world governed throughout by mathematically formulable laws\". It has been said that he was the first man to call himself a philosopher, or lover of wisdom.\n\nPlato held rational insight to a very high standard, as is seen in his works such as Meno and The Republic. He taught on the Theory of Forms (or the Theory of Ideas) which asserts that the highest and most fundamental kind of reality is not the material world of change known to us through sensation, but rather the abstract, non-material (but substantial) world of forms (or ideas). For Plato, these forms were accessible only to reason and not to sense. In fact, it is said that Plato admired reason, especially in geometry, so highly that he had the phrase \"Let no one ignorant of geometry enter\" inscribed over the door to his academy.\n\nAristotle's main contribution to rationalist thinking was the use of syllogistic logic and its use in argument. Aristotle defines syllogism as \"a discourse in which certain (specific) things having been supposed, something different from the things supposed results of necessity because these things are so.\" Despite this very general definition, Aristotle limits himself to categorical syllogisms which consist of three categorical propositions in his work \"Prior Analytics\". These included categorical modal syllogisms.\n\nAlthough the three great Greek philosophers disagreed with one another on specific points, they all agreed that rational thought could bring to light knowledge that was self-evident – information that humans otherwise couldn't know without the use of reason. After Aristotle's death, Western rationalistic thought was generally characterized by its application to theology, such as in the works of Augustine, the Islamic philosopher Avicenna and Jewish philosopher and theologian Maimonides. One notable event in the Western timeline was the philosophy of Thomas Aquinas who attempted to merge Greek rationalism and Christian revelation in the thirteenth-century.\n\nEarly modern rationalism has its roots in the 17th-century Dutch Republic, with some notable intellectual representatives like Hugo Grotius, René Descartes, and Baruch Spinoza.\n\nDescartes was the first of the modern rationalists and has been dubbed the 'Father of Modern Philosophy.' Much subsequent Western philosophy is a response to his writings, which are studied closely to this day.\n\nDescartes thought that only knowledge of eternal truths including the truths of mathematics, and the epistemological and metaphysical foundations of the sciences could be attained by reason alone; other knowledge, the knowledge of physics, required experience of the world, aided by the scientific method. He also argued that although dreams appear as real as sense experience, these dreams cannot provide persons with knowledge. Also, since conscious sense experience can be the cause of illusions, then sense experience itself can be doubtable. As a result, Descartes deduced that a rational pursuit of truth should doubt every belief about sensory reality. He elaborated these beliefs in such works as \"Discourse on Method\", \"Meditations on First Philosophy\", and \"Principles of Philosophy\". Descartes developed a method to attain truths according to which nothing that cannot be recognised by the intellect (or reason) can be classified as knowledge. These truths are gained \"without any sensory experience,\" according to Descartes. Truths that are attained by reason are broken down into elements that intuition can grasp, which, through a purely deductive process, will result in clear truths about reality.\n\nDescartes therefore argued, as a result of his method, that reason alone determined knowledge, and that this could be done independently of the senses. For instance, his famous dictum, \"cogito ergo sum\" or \"I think, therefore I am\", is a conclusion reached \"a priori\" i.e., prior to any kind of experience on the matter. The simple meaning is that doubting one's existence, in and of itself, proves that an \"I\" exists to do the thinking. In other words, doubting one's own doubting is absurd. This was, for Descartes, an irrefutable principle upon which to ground all forms of other knowledge. Descartes posited a metaphysical dualism, distinguishing between the substances of the human body (\"\"res extensa\") and the mind or soul (\"res cogitans\"\"). This crucial distinction would be left unresolved and lead to what is known as the mind-body problem, since the two substances in the Cartesian system are independent of each other and irreducible.\n\nThe philosophy of Baruch Spinoza is a systematic, logical, rational philosophy developed in seventeenth-century Europe. Spinoza's philosophy is a system of ideas constructed upon basic building blocks with an internal consistency with which he tried to answer life's major questions and in which he proposed that \"God exists only philosophically.\" He was heavily influenced by Descartes, Euclid and Thomas Hobbes, as well as theologians in the Jewish philosophical tradition such as Maimonides. But his work was in many respects a departure from the Judeo-Christian tradition. Many of Spinoza's ideas continue to vex thinkers today and many of his principles, particularly regarding the emotions, have implications for modern approaches to psychology. To this day, many important thinkers have found Spinoza's \"geometrical method\" difficult to comprehend: Goethe admitted that he found this concept confusing. His \"magnum opus\", \"Ethics\", contains unresolved obscurities and has a forbidding mathematical structure modeled on Euclid's geometry. Spinoza's philosophy attracted believers such as Albert Einstein and much intellectual attention.\n\nLeibniz was the last of the great Rationalists who contributed heavily to other fields such as metaphysics, epistemology, logic, mathematics, physics, jurisprudence, and the philosophy of religion; he is also considered to be one of the last \"universal geniuses\". He did not develop his system, however, independently of these advances. Leibniz rejected Cartesian dualism and denied the existence of a material world. In Leibniz's view there are infinitely many simple substances, which he called \"monads\" (possibly taking the term from the work of Anne Conway).\n\nLeibniz developed his theory of monads in response to both Descartes and Spinoza, because the rejection of their visions forced him to arrive at his own solution. Monads are the fundamental unit of reality, according to Leibniz, constituting both inanimate and animate objects. These units of reality represent the universe, though they are not subject to the laws of causality or space (which he called \"well-founded phenomena\"). Leibniz, therefore, introduced his principle of pre-established harmony to account for apparent causality in the world.\n\nKant is one of the central figures of modern philosophy, and set the terms by which all subsequent thinkers have had to grapple. He argued that human perception structures natural laws, and that reason is the source of morality. His thought continues to hold a major influence in contemporary thought, especially in fields such as metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, political philosophy, and aesthetics.\n\nKant named his brand of epistemology \"Transcendental Idealism\", and he first laid out these views in his famous work \"The Critique of Pure Reason\". In it he argued that there were fundamental problems with both rationalist and empiricist dogma. To the rationalists he argued, broadly, that pure reason is flawed when it goes beyond its limits and claims to know those things that are necessarily beyond the realm of all possible experience: the existence of God, free will, and the immortality of the human soul. Kant referred to these objects as \"The Thing in Itself\" and goes on to argue that their status as objects beyond all possible experience by definition means we cannot know them. To the empiricist he argued that while it is correct that experience is fundamentally necessary for human knowledge, reason is necessary for processing that experience into coherent thought. He therefore concludes that both reason and experience are necessary for human knowledge. In the same way, Kant also argued that it was wrong to regard thought as mere analysis. \"In Kant's views, a priori concepts do exist, but if they are to lead to the amplification of knowledge, they must be brought into relation with empirical data\".\n\nRationalism has become a rarer label \"tout court\" of philosophers today; rather many different kinds of specialised rationalisms are identified. For example, Robert Brandom has appropriated the terms rationalist expressivism and rationalist pragmatism as labels for aspects of his programme in \"Articulating Reasons\", and identified linguistic rationalism, the claim that the content of propositions \"are essentially what can serve as both premises and conclusions of inferences\", as a key thesis of Wilfred Sellars.\n\nRationalism was criticized by William James for being out of touch with reality. James also criticized rationalism for representing the universe as a closed system, which contrasts to his view that the universe is an open system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1993025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1993025", "title": "RepRap project", "text": "RepRap project\n\nThe RepRap project started in England in 2005 as a University of Bath initiative to develop a low-cost 3D printer that can print most of its own components, but it is now made up of hundreds of collaborators world wide. RepRap is short for replicating\" rapid prototyper\".\n\nAs an open design, all of the designs produced by the project are released under a free software license, the GNU General Public License. \n\nDue to the ability of the machine to make some of its own parts, authors envisioned the possibility of cheap RepRap units, enabling the manufacture of complex products without the need for extensive industrial infrastructure. They intended for the RepRap to demonstrate evolution in this process as well as for it to increase in number exponentially. A preliminary study claimed that using RepRaps to print common products results in economic savings.\n\nRepRap was founded in 2005 by Dr Adrian Bowyer, a Senior Lecturer in mechanical engineering at the University of Bath in England. Funding was obtained from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.\n\nOn 13 September 2006, the RepRap 0.2 prototype successfully printed the first part of itself, which were subsequently used to replace an identical part originally created by a commercial 3D printer. On 9 February 2008, RepRap 1.0 \"Darwin\" successfully made at least one instance of over half its total rapid-prototyped parts. On 14 April 2008, possibly the first end-user item is made by a RepRap: a clamp to hold an iPod securely to the dashboard of a Ford Fiesta. By September of that year it was reported that at least 100 copies have been produced in various countries.\n\nIn April 2009 electronic circuit boards were produced automatically with a RepRap, using an automated control system and a swappable head system capable of printing both plastic and conductive solder. On 2 October 2009, the second generation design, called \"Mendel\", printed its first part. The Mendel's shape resembles a triangular prism rather than a cube. RepRap 2.0 \"Mendel\" was completed in October 2009. On 27 January 2010, the Foresight Institute announced the \"Kartik M. Gada Humanitarian Innovation Prize\" for the design and construction of an improved RepRap.\n\nThe third generation design, \"Huxley\", was officially named on 31 August 2010. Development is based on a miniaturized version of the Mendel hardware with 30% of the original print volume.\nWithin two years, RepRap and RepStrap building and usage were widespread within the tech, gadget, and engineering communities. In 2012, the first successful Delta design, Rostock, had a radically different design. The latest iterations used OpenBeams, wires (typically Dyneema or Spectra fishing lines) instead of belts, and so forth, which also represented some of the latest trends in RepRaps.\n\nIn early January 2016 RepRapPro (short for \"RepRap Professional\", and one commercial arm of the RepRap project in the UK) announced that they are to cease trading on 15 January 2016. The reason given was congestion of the market for low-cost 3D printers and the inability to expand in that market. RepRapPro China continues to operate.\n\nAs the project was designed by Dr Bowyer to encourage evolution, many variations have been created. As an open source project designers are free to make modifications and substitutions, but they must reshare their improvements.\n\nThere are many RepRap printer designs including:\n\nRepRap has been conceived as a complete replication system rather than simply a piece of hardware. To this end the system includes computer-aided design (CAD) in the form of a 3D modeling system and computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) software and drivers that convert RepRap users' designs into a set of instructions to the RepRap hardware that turns them into physical objects.\n\nInitially two different CAM toolchains had been developed for the RepRap. The first, simply titled \"RepRap Host\", was written in Java by lead RepRap developer Adrian Bowyer. The second, \"Skeinforge\", was written independently by Enrique Perez. Both are complete systems for translating 3D computer models into G-code, the machine language that commands the printer.\n\nLater, other programs like slic3r, pronterface, Cura, were created. Recently, Franklin firmware was created to allow RepRap 3-D printers to be used as general purposes 3-D robots in addition to 3-D printing (e.g. milling, fluid handling, etc.)\n\nThe closed source KISSlicer and repetier host are also used.\n\nFree and open-source 3-D modeling programs like Blender, OpenSCAD, and FreeCAD are preferred 3-D modeling programs in general for the RepRap community but, virtually any CAD or 3D modeling program can be used with the RepRap, as long as it is capable of producing STL files.(slic3r also supports .obj and .amf files). Thus, content creators make use of any tools they are familiar with, whether they are commercial CAD programs, such as SolidWorks and Autodesk AutoCAD, Autodesk Inventor, Autodesk 123D Design, Tinkercad, or SketchUp along with the libre software.\n\nRepRaps print objects from ABS, Polylactic acid (PLA), Nylon (possibly not all extruders capable), HDPE, TPE and similar thermoplastics.\n\nPolylactic acid (PLA) has the engineering advantages of high stiffness, minimal warping, and an attractive translucent colour. It is also biodegradable and plant-derived.\n\nThe mechanical properties of RepRap printed PLA and ABS have been tested and have been shown to be equivalent to the tensile strengths of proprietary printers.\n\nUnlike in most commercial machines, RepRap users are encouraged to experiment with printing new materials and methods, and to publish their results. Methods for printing novel materials (such as ceramics) have been developed this way. In addition, several RecycleBots have been designed and fabricated to convert waste plastic, such as shampoo containers and milk jugs, into inexpensive RepRap filament. There is some evidence that using this approach of distributed recycling is better for the environment and can be useful for creating \"fair trade filament\".\n\nIn addition, 3D printing products themselves at the point of consumption by the consumer has also been shown to be better for the environment.\n\nThe RepRap project has identified polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) as a potentially suitable support material to complement its printing process, although massive overhangs can be made with using thin layers of the primary printing media as support, which are mechanically removed afterwards.\n\nPrinting electronics is a major goal of the RepRap project so that it can print its own circuit boards. Several methods have been proposed:\n\n\nUsing a MIG welder as a print head a RepRap deltabot stage can be used to print metals like steel.\n\nThe RepRap concept can also be applied to a milling machine and to laser welding.\n\nAlthough the aim of the project is for RepRap to be able to autonomously construct many of its own mechanical components in the near future using fairly low-level resources, several components such as sensors, stepper motors, or microcontrollers are currently non-replicable using the RepRap's 3D printing technology and therefore have to be produced independently of the RepRap self-replicating process. The goal is to asymptotically approach 100% replication over a series of evolutionary generations. As one example, from the onset of the project, the RepRap team has explored a variety of approaches to integrating electrically-conductive media into the product. The future success of this initiative should open the door to the inclusion of connective wiring, printed circuit boards, and possibly even motors in RepRapped products. Variations in the nature of the extruded, electrically-conductive media could produce electrical components with different functions from pure conductive traces, not unlike what was done in the sprayed-circuit process of the 1940s named Electronic Circuit Making Equipment (ECME), described in the article on its designer, John Sargrove. Printed electronics is a related approach. Another non-replicable component is the threaded rods for the linear motions. A current research area is in using replicated Sarrus linkages to replace them.\n\nThe \"Core team\" of the project has included:\n\n\nThe stated goal of the RepRap project is to produce a pure self-replicating device not for its own sake, but rather to put in the hands of individuals anywhere on the planet, for a minimal outlay of capital, a desktop manufacturing system that would enable the individual to manufacture many of the artifacts used in everyday life. From a theoretical viewpoint, the project is attempting to prove the hypothesis that \"Rapid prototyping and direct writing technologies are sufficiently versatile to allow them to be used to make a von Neumann universal constructor\".\n\nRepRap technology has great potential in educational applications, according to some scholars. RepRaps have already been used for an educational mobile robotics platform. Some authors have claimed that RepRaps offer an unprecedented \"revolution\" in STEM education. The evidence for such claims comes from both the low cost ability for rapid prototyping in the classroom by students, but also the fabrication of low-cost high-quality scientific equipment from open hardware designs forming open-source labs.\n\n"}
{"id": "31812627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31812627", "title": "SS Empire Dabchick", "text": "SS Empire Dabchick\n\nEmpire Dabchick was a Design 1019 cargo ship that was built in 1919 as Kisnop by Atlantic Corporation, Portsmouth, New Hampshire, United States for the United States Shipping Board (USSB). She was transferred to the United States Maritime Commission (USMC) in 1937. In 1940 she was transferred to the Ministry of War Transport (MoWT) and renamed \"Empire Dabchick\". She served until December 1942, when she was torpedoed and sunk by .\n\nThe ship was built in 1919 by Atlantic Corporation, Portsmouth, New Hampshire. She was yard number 1.\n\nThe ship was overall, long between perpendiculars, She had a beam of , with a depth of . As built, she was assessed at , \n\nThe ship was propelled by a 359 nhp triple expansion steam engine, which had cylinders of , and diameter by stroke. The engine was built by Atlantic Corporation, Taunton, Massachusetts. It drove a screw propeller and could propel the ship at .\n\n\"Kisnop\" was launched in 1919, and completed in August of that year. She was built for the USSB and was transferred to the USMC in 1937. Her port of registry was Portsmouth, New Hampshire. On transfer to the USMC, \"Kisnop\" was laid up in reserve.\n\nOn 14 November 1940, \"Kisnop\" was given to the United Kingdom, passing to the MoWT. She was renamed \"Empire Dabchick\" and placed under the management of Sir W Reardon Smith & Sons. The United Kingdom Official Number 168184 and Code Letters GNSN were allocated. Her port of registry was London. She was assessed at , . Later that year, management was transferred to J Morrison & Son, Newcastle upon Tyne. \"Kisnop\" was due to join Convoy HX 116, but did not sail in that convoy, nor in the next convoy, HX 117. \"Kisnop\" sailed in Convoy SC 28, which departed from Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada on 9 April 1941 and arrived at Liverpool, Lancashire, United Kingdom on 28 April. \"Kisnop\" was carrying a cargo consisting general and special cargo, iron, steel and trucks. She was bound for Middlesbrough, Yorkshire. She straggled behind the convoy on 19 April and did not rejoin, putting into an Icelandic port.\n\n\"Kisnop\" had been renamed \"Empire Dabchick\" by 16 June 1941, when she arrived at the Tyne. On 18 June, she joined Convoy FN 494, which departed from Southend on Sea, Essex that day and arrived at Methil, Fife two days later. On 22 June, she joined Convoy EC 48, which had departed from Southend on 20 June and arrived at the Clyde on 25 June. \"Empire Dabchick\" then sailed to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, arriving on 16 August. On 13 September, she departed Philadelphia for Sydney, Cape Breton, Canada, arriving on 19 September. She then joined Convoy SC 47, which departed on 29 September and arrived at Liverpool on 20 October. \"Empire Dabchick\" was carrying general cargo.\n\n\"Empire Dabchick\" was a member of Convoy ON 37, which departed from Liverpool on 15 November and dispersed at sea on 20 November at . She arrived at Halifax on 9 December. On 23 December, she sailed for New York, United States, where she arrived on 26 December. On 18 January, she departed New York for Halifax, arriving on 21 January. She then joined Convoy SC 66, which departed on 23 January and arrived at Liverpool on 9 February. \"Empire Dabchick\" was carrying general cargo. She left the convoy at Belfast Lough on 8 February. On 11 February, she joined Convoy BB 136, which arrived at Milford Haven, Pembrokeshire on 13 February. Her destination was Cardiff, Glamorgan, where she arrived that day.\n\n\"Empire Dabchick\" departed Cardiff on 1 March for Milford Haven, from where she joined Convoy ON 72, which departed from Liverpool on 3 March and arrived at Halifax on 19 March. She was carrying a cargo of coal. She then joined Convoy XB4, which departed Halifax on 26 March and arrived at Boston, Massachusetts, United States on 29 March. She left the convoy at the Cape Cod Canal on 28 March and sailed to New York, arriving on 1 April. \"Empire Dabchick\" then made a voyage to Baltimore, Maryland and back before she departed from New York on 17 April for Halifax, arriving on 20 April. She then joined Convoy SC 81, which departed on 23 April and arrived at Liverpool on 9 May. She was carrying a cargo of steel.\n\n\"Empire Dabchick\" was a member of Convoy ON 98, which departed from Liverpool on 26 May and arrived at Halifax on 11 June. Two days later, she departed Halifax for Pubnico, Nova Scotia, arriving the next day. On 16 July, she departed Pubnico for Halifax and New York, where she arrived on 27 July. \"Empire Dabchick\" departed from New York on 22 August for Cape Cod Bay, Massachusetts, from where she joined Convoy BX 35, which had departed Boston on 26 August and arrived at Halifax on 29 August. She then joined Convoy SC 98, which departed that day and arrived at Liverpool on 13 September. She was carrying general cargo.\n\n\"Empire Dabchick\" was a member of Convoy ON 136, which departed from Liverpool on 3 October and arrived at New York on 26 October. She was carrying the convoy's Vice-Commodore, but she returned to the Clyde, arriving on 6 October. She left the Clyde on 11 October, joining Convoy ON 138, which had departed from Liverpool on 11 October and arrived at New York on 3 November. She again returned to the Clyde, arriving on 16 October. She departed the Clyde on what was to be her final voyage on 15 November, joining Convoy ON 146, which had departed from Liverpool that day and arrived at New York on 8 December. \"Empire Dabchick\" straggled behind the convoy. At 09:49 (German time) on 3 December 1942, she was torpedoed and sunk by some south east of Sable Island, Nova Scotia, Canada () with the loss of all 36 crew and eleven DEMS gunners. Those lost on \"Empire Dabchick\" are commemorated at the Tower Hill Memorial, London.\n\n"}
{"id": "34496799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34496799", "title": "Seasonal effects on suicide rates", "text": "Seasonal effects on suicide rates\n\nResearch on seasonal effects on suicide rates suggests that the prevalence of suicide is greatest during the late spring and early summer months, despite the common belief that suicide rates peak during the cold and dark months of the winter season.\n\nThe Center for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Center for Health Statistics report that suicide rates in the United States are lowest during the winter months and highest in the summer and spring. F. Stephen Bridges asserts that there is \"a high incidence in early spring (April and May) and also a low incidence in winter\" of suicide rates. Bridges's study focused on seasonal effects on suicide risk by examining the monthly distribution of suicides in the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s via a \"harmonic time series model\" with six observable harmonic cycles within each consecutive year. The results show a consistent pattern of suicide risk with most suicides occurring in the spring/summer and the fewest during the winter months. Specifically, Bridges found that in the 1970s \"about 47% of the total variances can be explained by the seasonal components\" within that given decade (with more suicides in spring/summer). In the 1980s, \"the seasonal component of suicide incidence for the time period 1981 through 1990 is clearly significant and records about a 27.7% increase in seasonal contribution by comparison with the previous period\". In the 1990s, \"the significant seasonal rhythm were explained in 63% of the total variation\".\n\nAccording to Bridges, recent research from industrialized countries (including Finland, Sweden, Australia, New Zealand, England, and Wales) has provided enough information to show a decrease in seasonal effects on suicide rates over the past few decades. In the case of Greece, seasonal variations in mortality from suicide are \"more frequent during the spring and summer months…but [have] no regular annual rhythm\". The Greek researchers proposed that \"the seasonal variation of suicide follows more closely to the seasonal variation of sunshine, rather than the corresponding variation of temperature\". Few scientific assessments have focused on seasonal suicide Epidemiology of suicide variations in the southern hemisphere. Studies in Brazil have shown that \"the peak number of suicides occurred in spring (November) in men and women of Rio Grande do Sul state and in men of Paraná and Santa Catarina states, and in early summer (January) for women of Paraná state.\" \nOne international study on seasonal effects on suicide rates involving 20 countries showed an early summer peak in suicides. She concluded that \"seasonal variation in suicide incidence could be explained by the increase in sunshine in summer months because of a relationship between sunshine, high temperatures, and suicide rate\". Australian researchers found a \"spring peak in the number of suicides committed in Brisbane, Australia, but the results were not statistically significant…and that Dublin reported the incidence of suicide varied according to seasons in the northern hemisphere\".\n\nFrench sociologist Émile Durkheim had found similar results, reporting that more suicides occurred in the spring than in the summer. Rather than emphasizing the role of nature, Durkheim interpreted the seasonal variation in sociological terms; he wrote that most suicides took place in the spring because \"everything begins to awake; activity is resumed, relations spring up, interchanges increase. In other words, it is the density of human interactions, and not the environment that caused higher incidence of suicide in spring or summer\".\n\nMany people believe that suicide rates peak during the winter months. Intuitively, this makes sense given the existence of seasonal affective disorder and the tendency to associate depression with winter. Harsh weather increases the prevalence of diseases such as pneumonia and hypothermia, which have mainly been from the minimal amount of sunlight in the winter time. In turn, this notion is indicative of the winter season having a general association with suicide rates. Some also believe that \"holiday cheer amplifies loneliness and hopelessness in people who have lost loved ones, or who have high expectations of renewed happiness during the holiday season, only to be disappointed\".\n\nSuicide attempts, related behaviors, and thought processes can be analyzed exogenously (within the boundaries of social and economic elements) and endogenously (demographic, pathological, clinical, and seasonal aspects). \n\nAs noted in a study led by Timo Partonen and colleagues, \"There was a seasonal effect on suicide occurrence among the study population in Finland, and the risk of suicide was highest in May and lowest in February over the study period\"…males with an incidence of 42.56 (N=21,622) and females with an incidence of 10.86 (N=5847). Their findings demonstrate that both male and female suicide rates tend to be higher during the spring and summer months (combined gender inference of: April ~ 27.24; May ~ 30.04; June ~ 28.86; July ~ 27.83) compared to winter (Nov. ~ 25.77; Dec. ~ 23.17; Jan. ~ 24.07; Feb. ~ 23.16). \nSimilar results were reported in Lester and Franks’ article \"Sex differences in the seasonal distribution of suicides\". These researchers focused on the influence of climate and social integration, in regards to suicide rates categorized by gender. Their data suggest that both genders showed a \"bimodal distribution of suicides and the sexes, but did not differ significantly from each other (x@=l2.29, d.f.=ll, P>0.30)\". The authors hypothesized that the high summer peaks in suicide deaths are the result of an ultimately disappointed hope amongst the emotionally discomforted that winter might bring an end to the \"social isolation and depression brought about by the cold weather\". \nIn contrast to these findings, some studies indicate that males have only one peak of suicide during the spring and early summer while women show two peaks of suicide throughout the year, during the spring and fall: \"The seasonal distribution of suicides among the 117 males was similar and showed a significant seasonality: spring and summer peaks (33 and 29%, respectively) and fall–winter lows (18% and 20%, respectively, χ2=7.684, d.f.=3, P=0.053)\".\n\nBiological explanations of seasonal effects on suicide rates tend to focus on seasonal variation in hormone changes and neurotransmitter levels. Chronobiological research, conducted by a team of clinical scientists in Belgium, has revealed that many \"biochemical, metabolic and immune functions, which may be related to suicide, suicidal behavior or ideation or major depression, are organized along a multifrequency seasonal time-structure\". Evidence was found by calculating \"serum total cholesterol concentrations to show a clear seasonality with lower levels in midyear than in winter\" Similarly, medical researchers in Pennsylvania indicate that neuropeptides in normal controls have lower serum cholesterol levels and may be related to a higher occurrence of suicide. These findings clearly state that there is a relationship between summer suicide rates and biochemical (e.g., plasma L-TRP and melatonin levels, [3H]paroxetine binding to blood platelets), metabolic (serum total cholesterol, calcium and magnesium concentrations), and immune (number of peripheral blood lymphocytes and serum sIL-2R) variables.\n\nAnother study focused on the association between depression, suicide, and the amount of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA). They state that \"depression is accompanied by a depletion of n-3 poly-unsaturated fatty acids\". Their methodology involved taking periodic blood samples—every month for one year—of healthy volunteers, allowing them to analyze the \"PUFA composition in serum phospholipids and [relating] those data to the annual variation in the mean weekly number of suicides\". They used an analysis of variance (ANOVA) to document their results, finding that PUFA like arachidonic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid all occurred at significantly lower rates in winter than in summer months. The association between depression, suicide, and PUFA rates is indicative of there being a biological factor in seasonal effects on suicide rates.\n\nEnvironmental variables, such as the amount of sunlight, occurrence of natural disasters, and the inability to protect and shelter oneself, can result in suicidal behaviors. For example, parasuicide, which is the strongest known indicator for a future completed suicide attempt, is known to have a strong association with weather patterns. As noted by Barker et al. in their 1994 article on seasonal and weather factors in parasuicide, \"A major finding of this study was…the greatest mean daily number of parasuicide episodes in late spring/early summer and a trough in December/January\". Their approach involved developing a linear model to accurately separate any \"seasonal effects and seasonally-related weather effects\". Climate factors affect parasuicide differently in women and men. The data indicated that the meteorological factors to account for large parasuicidal effects in women were maximum temperature, rainfall, and cloud cover. On the other hand, rain, cloud cover, poor visibility, and windy days were the most important meteorological factors in men. Additionally, \"environmental temperature, wind and humidity together affect the rate of body cooling, with hot, humid, still days decreasing evaporative cooling\". These findings state that elevated levels of environmental heat have been known to \"produce thermal stress causing physiological and behavioral change, which may predispose a person to parasuicidal behavior, or precipitate parasuicide in someone already considering it\".\n\nAlong with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Petridou and colleague showed a \"consistency of an early summer excess incidence of suicide around the world, and the further association of suicide with hours of sunshine, strongly [suggesting] that a physical environmental factor plays an important role in the triggering of suicide\" across twenty OECD countries around the world. All but two of the countries on their list (Australia and New Zealand) showed peaks in suicide rates between April and June; Australia and New Zealand, being the only southern-hemisphere countries in the study, peaked in November or December. Petridou notes that \"it is possible that the excess suicide risk during the summer months could be associated with behavioral changes of the persons not attributed directly to sunshine...so that suicide risk could be affected by factors associated with more free time rather than more sunshine\". Regarding Australia’s seasonal rates of suicide, studies have confirmed that the country's suicide peak in December and January is also from the number of \"bright sunlight hours\".\n\nTo shed light on Petridou’s concern that a confounding variable may be raising suicide rates in the sunny summer months, Quercioli (2012) instead considered a new instrument for changing sunlight alone — leaving unaffected other seasonal factors associated to summer. She looked at the three north-south strips of neighboring counties, spanning the three time zone lines. Their only relevant difference is the sunlight around sunset or sunrise. Those living on the West side of a time zone line enjoy one less hour of light at night, compensated by an extra hour of light in the morning. But since most people rise after sunrise but sleep long after sunset, those on the West side enjoy an hour less sunlight daily. Consistent with the hypothesis that sunlight by itself reduces suicide rates, Quercioli (2012) finds that suicide rates in counties on the West side of each of the three time-zone lines in the USA had an 8% higher suicide rate in the years 1979 to 2007.\n\nPsychological disorders can be affected by seasonal changes and result in suicide. There is also a \"physiological strain that results from the low ambient temperatures\", from which suicidal ideations are considered to stem. Behavioral psychologist Friedrich V. Wenz measured seasonal effects on suicide rates and researched the association between seasonal effects and psychopathology. Wenz \"investigated the relation of 2 components of loneliness, present and future loneliness, to seasonality of suicide attempts\". Wenz’s empirical literature states that suicide attempts from feelings of loneliness were highest in spring and summer and lowest in winter. On the other hand, \"The mean scale scores for present and future loneliness were greatest for spring and winter, the peak seasons for the timing of suicide attempts…persons may actually postpone acts of attempted suicide in order to participate and become emotionally involved in important annual ceremonies\".\n\nPatients diagnosed with a mood disorder have shown repetitive rates in a seasonal recurrence of suicide. The seasonal mood disorders that were recurrent in this study are as follows: \"depression, 51%, and bipolar disorder, 49%, with 30% of the latter having mania (bipolar disorder type I) and 19% having hypomania (bipolar disorder type II)\".\n\nWhen a mood disorder recurs in a seasonal pattern it is described as a seasonal affective disorder (SAD).\n\nPendse, Westrin, and Engstrom’s research on the effect of temperament on seasonal affective disorder and suicide attempts determined that \"the suicidal behavior of SAD patients is not a prominent problem, even though SAD patients often present suicidal ideation\". Pendse and colleagues compared a small sample of patients who suffered from seasonal affective disorder and also hospitalized suicide attempters who had experienced \"non-seasonal major depression\" by using the Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale (CPRS). Results state that the SAD control group had a significant probability of scoring higher on non-psychotic tests than the non-SAD suicide attempters—when both groups were analyzed for items such as \"hostile feelings, indecision (negatively), lassitude, failing memory, increased sleep, muscular tension, loss of sensation or movement, and disrupted thoughts, and the observed items were perplexity, slowness of movement (negatively), and agitation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44264652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44264652", "title": "Shudja ad Din Ahmad Khan", "text": "Shudja ad Din Ahmad Khan\n\nShah Shujaʿ al-Din Ahmad Khan (commonly known as Khan Shahid) was son of Muhammad Sultan and was Khan of Yarkand after death of his father sultan Muhammad Khan from 1609 to 1618.\n\nList of khans of the Yarkent Khanate\n\nIn Babr Nama written by Babur, Page 19, Chapter 1; described genealogy of his maternal grandfather Yunas Khan as:\n\nResearch project by Dr Abdul Rauf Mughal\n\n\ns\n"}
{"id": "42272594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42272594", "title": "Skull mounts", "text": "Skull mounts\n\nSkull mounts are sometimes referred to as European mounts, western skull mounts, or western mounts. They are referred to as European mounts because to keep the skin and hair on the animal is very costly in Europe; there are few taxidermists who can obtain imported materials from America. They are a large portion of taxidermy work. Only the skull of the animal is displayed, which will have horns, antlers, or nothing attached to the skull depending on the animal. These mounts can be displayed however the owner would like.\n\nThe traditional method of removing muscle and other flesh tissue leaving only the clean skull is boiling the entire head of the animal. This method was the first to be used in skull mounting; it is inexpensive, can produce a finished product in a day or less, and can be done with few supplies that can be found in any grocery or general supplies store. The mount does not take up much room because of the lack of neck and hide.\n\nUsing dermestidae beetles to eat away flesh is a modern method of cleaning the skulls for skull mounts and is increasing in popularity.\n\nYouTube (2012) \"How to do a European Skull Mount\"\n\nYouTube (2012) \"Flesh eating beetles at work\"\n"}
{"id": "5411423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5411423", "title": "Social organism", "text": "Social organism\n\nIn sociology, the social organism is an ideological concept in which a society or social structure is viewed as a \"living organism\". From this perspective, typically, the relation of social features, e.g. law, family, crime, etc., are examined as they interact with other features of society to meet social needs. All elements of a society or social organism have a function that maintains the stability and cohesiveness of the organism.\n\nThe model or concept of society as an organism is traced by Maclay from Aristotle via a number of thinkers including Comte. It was then developed in the late 19th century by Émile Durkheim, a French sociologist. According to Durkheim, the more specialized the function of an organism or society the greater its development, and vice versa. Generally, culture, politics, and economics are the three core activities of society. Social health depends on the harmonious interworking of these three activities. This concept was further developed by Rudolf Steiner in his lectures, essays and books on \"The Threefold Social Order\" from 1904 for the next two decades. Hence, the \"health\" of the social organism can be thought of as a function of the interaction of culture, politics and rights, and economics, which in theory can be studied, modeled, and analyzed. The conception of an \"organismic society\" was elaborated further by Herbert Spencer in his essay on \"The Social Organism\".\n\nSteiner's Fundamental Social Law\" of economic systems emerged during his work on social order: \"Most of all, however, our times are suffering from the lack of any basic social understanding of how work can be incorporated into the social organism correctly, so that everything we do is truly performed for the sake of our fellow human beings. We can acquire this understanding only by learning to really insert our \"I\" into the human community. New social forms will not be provided by nature but can emerge only from the human \"I\" through real, person-to-person understanding—that is, when the needs of others become a matter of direct experience for us.\"\n\nIn the 2002 book, Darwin's Cathedral, David Sloan Wilson applies his multilevel selection theory to social groups and proposes to think of society as an organism. Human groups therefore function as single units rather than mere collections of individuals. He claims that organisms \"survive and reproduce in their environments\" and that: \"Human groups in general, and religious groups in particular, qualify as organismic in this sense\".\n\n\n</div>\n\n"}
{"id": "484668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=484668", "title": "Susan Fleming", "text": "Susan Fleming\n\nSusan Fleming (February 19, 1908 – December 22, 2002) was an American actress and the wife of comic actor Harpo Marx. Fleming was known as the \"Girl with the Million Dollar Legs\" for a role she played in the W. C. Fields film \"Million Dollar Legs\" (1932). Her big stage break, which led to her Hollywood career, was as a Ziegfeld girl, performing in \"The Ziegfeld Follies\".\n\nFleming was from New York City and went to school in Forest Hills, Queens. After starring in the Ziegfeld Follies productions on Broadway, she started appearing in movies. One of her earliest film roles was a starring role in \"Range Feud\" as Judy Walton, the love interest of John Wayne. Fleming combined her dancing and cinematic interests in the 1932 movie \"Million Dollar Legs\", in which she played the daughter of W. C. Fields' character. As part of a publicity stunt for the film, her legs were insured for the eponymous million dollars.\n\nFleming was unhappy with Hollywood, stating in a 1995 interview that she found \"nothing more boring than working on a movie... I hated it!\". \n\n\"I first met Harpo at a party as is typical in Hollywood. I sat next to him and Fanny Brice. He had taken her to the party because he felt she would be entertaining, and he loved to be entertained.\"\n\nAt a dinner party held in the home of Samuel Goldwyn, she was seated next to Harpo Marx and found him fascinating. Despite his silent persona in films, she found Marx to be \"a warm, fun, darling man to talk to\". She pursued him relentlessly, dating for four years and proposing marriage to him on three separate occasions before he accepted. She ended her Hollywood career when she married Marx on September 28, 1936. Fleming's wedding to Marx was revealed to the public when President of the United States Franklin D. Roosevelt sent the couple a telegram of congratulations in November. Marx had sent a thank you letter to Roosevelt in appreciation for a signed photograph of the President, in which Marx had stated that he was \"in line for congratulations, too, having been married since September\" in an unspecified \"little town up North\".\n\nFleming was happy to leave show business, serving as Marx's \"valet\" and raising their four adopted children. In addition to his widespread interest in playing musical instruments, including his trademark harp, Fleming helped foster her husband's interest in painting; she would make elaborate frames for his paintings, as well as creating her own works of art. The two collected many artworks, which Fleming donated widely after her husband's death. In 1956, they moved to Rancho Mirage, California, with three out of the four other Marx Brothers; Gummo, Zeppo and Groucho building homes nearby.\n\nFleming became active in local community affairs, was the first woman on the board of College of the Desert and was elected to the Palm Springs Unified School District Board of Education.\n\nHarpo died at age 75 on September 28, 1964, their 28th wedding anniversary. Following his death, Fleming became more involved in local activities, including the local League of Women Voters. She became an advisory planning commissioner for Rancho Mirage, California, and headed an organization dedicated to preserving development on the fragile desert hillsides. She served a total of 18 years on the district board of education and ran and lost in a campaign for the California State Assembly. Honoring her contributions, a Golden Palm Star on the Palm Springs, California, Walk of Stars was dedicated to her in 2002.\n\nIn a 1981 decision later overruled by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in a case brought by Fleming, federal judge William C. Conner ruled that the producers of \"A Day in Hollywood / A Night in the Ukraine\" had improperly used the Marx Brothers characters in their Broadway theatre production and that the publicity rights of the comedians, even after their deaths, overrode the First Amendment issues raised by the show's creators. In April 1980, Conner refused to issue a preliminary injunction and allowed producer Alexander H. Cohen to open tje show as planned.\n\nFleming's autobiography, \"Go Tell\", about her life with Harpo Marx, was never published.\n\nFleming outlived Marx by almost forty years during which she was an artist and activist in the Palm Springs area. She died at age 94 on December 22, 2002, of a heart attack at Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage. She was survived by a daughter, three sons, five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "45627335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45627335", "title": "Tempotron", "text": "Tempotron\n\nThe Tempotron is a supervised synaptic learning algorithm which is applied when the information is encoded in spatiotemporal spiking patterns. This is an advancement of the perceptron which does not incorporate a spike timing framework.\n\nIt is general consensus that spike timing (STDP) plays a crucial role in the development of synaptic efficacy for many different kinds of neurons Therefore a large variety of STDP-rules has been developed one of which is the tempotron.\n\nAssuming a leaky integrate-and-fire-model the potential formula_1 of the synapse can be described by\n\nformula_2\n\nwhere formula_3 denotes the spike time of the i-th afferent synapse with synaptic efficacy formula_4 and formula_5 the resting potential. formula_6 describes the postsynaptic potential (PSP) elicited by each incoming spike:\n\nformula_7\n\nwith parameters formula_8 and formula_9 denoting decay time constants of the membrane integration and synaptic currents. The factor formula_10 is used for the normalization of the PSP kernels. When the potential crosses the firing threshold formula_11 the potential is reset to its resting value by shunting all incoming spikes.\n\nNext, a binary classification of the input patterns is needed(formula_12 refers to a pattern which should elicit at least one post synaptic action potential and formula_13 refers to a pattern which should have no response accordingly). In the beginning, the neuron does not know which pattern belongs to which classification and has to learn it iteratively, similar to the perceptron . The tempotron learns its tasks by adapting the synaptic efficacy formula_4. If a formula_15 pattern is presented and the postsynaptic neuron did not spike, all synaptic efficacies are increased by formula_16 whereas a formula_17 pattern followed by a postsynaptic response leads to a decrease of the synaptic efficacies by formula_18 with \n\nformula_19\n\nHere formula_20 denotes the time at which the postsynaptic potential formula_21 reaches its maximal value.\n\nIt should be mentioned that the Tempotron is a special case of an older paper which dealt with continuous inputs.\n"}
{"id": "22013063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22013063", "title": "The Philosophical Library", "text": "The Philosophical Library\n\nThe Philosophical Library (Philosophical and Religious Free Library) is a non-profit organization run entirely by volunteers and founded in 1963. It administers extensive lending privileges in a wide array of books in the fields of philosophy, religion, metaphysics and spiritual practices. It presents itself as a \"place of fellowship and spiritual growth as well as a research and study center.\"\nThe Philosophical Library's mission statement: \"Our mission at The Philosophical Library is to create a Conscious Community by providing unique resources for those seeking meaning through diverse paths of Wisdom.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "55992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55992", "title": "Tommy Cooper", "text": "Tommy Cooper\n\nThomas Frederick Cooper (19 March 1921 – 15 April 1984) was a Welsh prop comedian and magician. He was a member of The Magic Circle, and was respected by traditional magicians. He habitually wore a red fez, and his appearance was large and lumbering, at and more than in weight. On 15 April 1984, Cooper collapsed with a heart attack on live national television, and died soon afterwards.\n\nThomas Frederick Cooper was born on 19 March 1921 at 19 Llwyn-On Street in Caerphilly, Glamorgan. He was delivered by the woman who owned the house in which the family were lodging. His parents were Thomas H. Cooper, a Welsh recruiting sergeant in the British Army and later coal miner, and Catherine Gertrude (\"née\" Wright), Thomas' English wife from Crediton, Devon.\n\nTo escape from the heavily polluted air of Caerphilly, his father accepted the offer of a new job and the family moved to Exeter, Devon, when Cooper was three. It was in Exeter that he acquired the West Country accent that became part of his act. When he was eight, an aunt bought him a magic set and he spent hours perfecting the tricks. In the 1960s, his brother David (born 1930) opened a magic shop called D. & Z. Cooper's Magic Shop on the high street in Slough, Berkshire.\n\nAfter school, Cooper became a shipwright in Southampton. In 1940, he was called up as a trooper in the Royal Horse Guards, serving for seven years. He joined Montgomery's Desert Rats in Egypt. Cooper became a member of a NAAFI entertainment party and developed an act around his magic tricks interspersed with comedy. One evening in Cairo, during a sketch in which he was supposed to be in a costume that required a pith helmet, having forgotten the prop, Cooper reached out and borrowed a fez from a passing waiter, which got huge laughs. He wore a fez whenever performing after that, the prop later being described as \"an icon of 20th-century comedy\".\n\nWhen he was demobbed after seven years of military service Cooper took up show business on Christmas Eve, 1947. He later developed a popular monologue about his military experience as \"Cooper the Trooper\". He worked in variety theatres around the country and at many of London's top night spots, performing as many as 52 shows in one week.\n\nCooper had developed his conjuring skills and was a member of The Magic Circle, but there are various stories about how and when he developed his delivery of \"failed\" magic tricks:\n\n\nTo keep the audience on their toes Cooper threw in an occasional trick that worked when it was least expected.\n\nCooper was influenced by Laurel and Hardy, Will Hay, Max Miller, Bob Hope, and Robert Orben.\n\nIn 1947, Cooper got his big break with Miff Ferrie, at that time trombonist in a band called The Jackdaws, who booked him to appear as the second-spot comedian in a show starring the sand dance act Marqueeze and the Dance of the Seven Veils. Cooper then began two years of arduous performing, including a tour of Europe and a stint in pantomime, playing one of Cinderella's ugly sisters. The period culminated in a season-long booking at the Windmill Theatre, where he doubled up doing cabaret. In one week, he performed 52 shows. Ferrie remained Cooper's sole agent for 37 years, until Cooper's death in 1984. Cooper was supported by a variety of acts, including the vocal percussionist Frank Holder.\n\nCooper rapidly became a top-liner in variety with his turn as the conjurer whose tricks never succeeded, but it was his television work that raised him to national prominence. After his debut on the BBC talent show \"New to You\" in March 1948 he started starring in his own shows, and was popular with audiences for nearly 40 years, notably through his work with London Weekend Television from 1968 to 1972 and with Thames Television from 1973 to 1980. Thanks to his many television shows during the mid-1970s, he was one of the most recognisable comedians in the world.\n\nJohn Fisher writes in his biography of Cooper: \"Everyone agrees that he was mean. Quite simply he was acknowledged as the tightest man in show business, with a pathological dread of reaching into his pocket.\" One of Cooper's stunts was to pay the exact taxi fare and when leaving the cab to slip something into the taxi driver's pocket saying, \"Have a drink on me.\" That something would turn out to be a tea bag.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, alcohol had started to erode Cooper's professionalism and club owners complained that he turned up late or rushed through his show in five minutes. In addition he suffered from chronic indigestion, lumbago, sciatica, bronchitis and severe circulation problems in his legs. When Cooper realised the extent of his maladies he cut down on his drinking, and the energy and confidence returned to his act. However, he never stopped drinking and could be fallible: on an otherwise triumphant appearance with Michael Parkinson he forgot to set the safety catch on the guillotine illusion into which he had cajoled Parkinson, and only a last-minute intervention by the floor manager saved Parkinson from serious injury or worse.\n\nCooper was a heavy smoker as well as an excessive drinker; as a result, he experienced a decline in health during the late 1970s, suffering a heart attack in 1977 while performing a show in Rome. Three months later he was back on television in \"Night Out at the London Casino\".\n\nBy 1980, however, his drinking meant that Thames Television would not give him another starring series, and \"Cooper's Half Hour\" was his last. He did continue to appear as a guest on other television shows, however, and worked with Eric Sykes on two Thames productions in 1982.\n\nOn 15 April 1984, Cooper collapsed from a heart attack in front of millions of television viewers, midway through his act on the London Weekend Television variety show \"Live from Her Majesty's\", transmitted live from Her Majesty's Theatre in Westminster, London.\n\nAn assistant had helped him put on a cloak for his sketch, while Jimmy Tarbuck, the host, was hiding behind the curtain waiting to pass him different props that he would then appear to pull from inside his gown. The assistant smiled at him as he collapsed, believing that it was a part of the act. Likewise, the audience gave \"uproarious\" laughter as he fell, gasping for air.\n\nAt this point, Alasdair MacMillan, the director of the television production, cued the orchestra to play music for an unscripted commercial break (noticeable because of several seconds of blank screen while LWT's master control contacted regional stations to start transmitting advertisements) and Tarbuck's manager tried to pull Cooper back through the curtains.\n\nIt was decided to continue with the show. Dustin Gee and Les Dennis were the act that had to follow Cooper, and other stars proceeded to present their acts in the limited space in front of the stage. While the show continued, efforts were being made backstage to revive Cooper, not made any easier by the darkness. It was not until a second commercial break that the paramedics were able to move his body to Westminster Hospital, where he was pronounced dead on arrival. His death was not officially reported until the next morning, although the incident was the leading item on the news programme that followed the show. Cooper was cremated at Mortlake Crematorium in London.\n\nThe video of Tommy Cooper suffering the fatal heart attack on stage has been uploaded to numerous video sharing websites. YouTube drew criticism from a number of sources when footage of the incident was posted on the website in May 2009. John Beyer of the pressure group Mediawatch-UK said: \"This is very poor taste. That the broadcasters have not repeated the incident shows they have a respect for him and I think that ought to apply also on YouTube.\" On 28 December 2011 segments of the \"Live From Her Majesty's\" clip, including Cooper collapsing on stage, were included in the Channel 4 programme \"The Untold Tommy Cooper\".\n\nFrom 1967 until his death, Cooper had a relationship with his personal assistant, Mary Fieldhouse. She wrote about it in her book, \"For the Love of Tommy\" (1986). His widow, Gwen Henty, whom he married in Cyprus in 1947 but never divorced, died in 2002. One of their two sons, actor Thomas Henty, was born in 1956 and died in 1988. Cooper's will was proved via probate, on 29 August 1984, at £327,272.\n\nA statue of Cooper was unveiled in his birthplace of Caerphilly, Wales, in 2008 by fellow Welsh entertainer Sir Anthony Hopkins, who is patron of the Tommy Cooper Society. The statue was sculpted by James Done. Hip-hop duo Dan le Sac Vs Scroobius Pip wrote the song \"Tommy C\", about Cooper's career and death, which appears on their 2008 album, \"Angles\". In 2009 for Red Nose Day, a charity Red Nose was put on the statue, but the nose was stolen.\n\nCooper was a member of the Grand Order of Water Rats.\n\nIn a 2005 poll \"The Comedians' Comedian\", Cooper was voted the sixth greatest comedy act ever by fellow comedians and comedy insiders. He has been cited as an influence by Jason Manford and John Lydon. Jerome Flynn has toured with his own tribute show to Cooper called \"Just Like That\".\n\nIn February 2007, \"The Independent\" reported that Andy Harries, a producer of \"The Queen\", was working on a dramatisation about the last week of Tommy Cooper's life. Harries described Cooper's death as \"extraordinary\" in that the whole thing was broadcast live on national television. The film subsequently went into production over six years later as a television drama for ITV. From a screenplay by Simon Nye, \"\" was directed by Benjamin Caron and the title role was played by David Threlfall; it was broadcast 21 April 2014.\n\nIn 2012 the British Heart Foundation ran a series of adverts featuring Tommy Cooper to raise awareness of heart conditions. These included posters bearing his image together with radio adverts featuring classic Cooper jokes. \n\"Being Tommy Cooper\", a new play written by Tom Green and starring Damian Williams, was produced by Franklin Productions and toured the UK in 2013. In 2014, with the support of The Tommy Cooper Estate and Cooper's daughter Victoria, a new tribute show \"Just Like That! The Tommy Cooper Show\" commemorating 30 years since the comedian's death was produced by \"Hambledon Productions\". The production moved to the \"Museum of Comedy\" in Bloomsbury, London from September 2014 and continues to tour extensively throughout the UK.\n\nIn May 2016, a blue plaque in his memory was unveiled at Cooper's former home in Barrowgate Road, Chiswick, London. In August it was announced that the Victoria and Albert Museum had acquired 116 boxes of Cooper's papers and props, including his \"gag file\", in which the museum said he had used a system to store his jokes alphabetically \"with the meticulousness of an archivist\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14743458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14743458", "title": "Transcendent Man", "text": "Transcendent Man\n\nTranscendent Man is a 2009 documentary film by American filmmaker Barry Ptolemy about inventor, futurist and author Ray Kurzweil and his predictions about the future of technology in his 2005 book, \"The Singularity is Near\". In the film, Ptolemy follows Kurzweil around his world as he discusses his thoughts on the technological singularity, a proposed advancement that will occur sometime in the 21st century when progress in artificial intelligence, genetics, nanotechnology, and robotics will result in the creation of a human-machine civilization.\n\nWilliam Morris Endeavor distributed the film partnership with Ptolemaic Productions and Therapy Studios, using an original model involving a nationwide screening tour of the film (featuring Q&A sessions with Ptolemy and Kurzweil), as well as separate digital and DVD releases. The film was also released on iTunes and On-Demand on March 1, 2011, and on DVD on May 24, 2011.\n\nThe film debuted for the first public screening at the Time-Life Building in New York City on February 3, 2011. The same week, \"Time\" ran the Singularity cover story by Lev Grossman, with coverage about Kurzweil's ideas and the concepts, citing \"Transcendent Man\". Kurzweil toured the film, appearing on Fox News Channel, CNN, MSNBC, Bloomberg News, and \"Charlie Rose\". Additionally, Kurzweil went on to discuss the film on \"The Colbert Report\", \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\", and \"Real Time with Bill Maher\".\n\nRaymond Kurzweil, noted inventor and futurist, is a man who refuses to accept the inevitability of physical death. He proposes that the Law of Accelerating Returns—the exponential increase in the growth of information technology—will result in a \"singularity\", a point where humanity and machines will merge, allowing one to transcend biological mortality: advances in genetics will provide the knowledge to reprogram biology, eliminate disease and stop the aging process; nanotechnology will keep humans healthy from the inside using robotic \"red blood cells\" and provide a human-computer interface within the brain; robotics, or artificial intelligence, will make superhuman intelligence possible, including the ability to back up the mind.\n\nMost of the movie has an implication of a religious background, and is applying technology to accomplish the goals with what is considered to be \"god like\" powers, through interdependent connection. Kurzweil has been criticized as being a modern-day prophet, however the film describes a detailed list of his inventions. Ray's dedication to improving the blind's quality of life is displayed in the climax of the film, with his miniature blind reading tool. Ray speaks of emailing someone a blouse, or printing out a toaster utilizing nanotechnology. Eventually swarms of our nanotechnology will be sent by us into the universe to, as Kurzweil puts it, \"wake up the universe\". \nAgainst this optimistic backdrop of human and machine evolution, concerns about Kurzweil's predictions are raised by technology experts, philosophers, and commentators. Physician William B. Hurlbut warns of tragedy and views Kurzweil's claims as lacking a more moderate approach necessitated by biological science. AI engineer Ben Goertzel champions the transhumanist vision, but acknowledges the possibility of a dystopian outcome. AI researcher Hugo de Garis warns of a coming \"Artilect War\", where god-like artificial intellects and those who want to build them, will fight against those who don't. Kevin Warwick, professor of Cybernetics at University of Reading, advocates the benefits of the singularity, but suggests the Terminator scenario could also occur, where humans become subservient to machine and live on a farm, and the singularity is the point where humans lose control to the intelligent machines. Warwick basically spells doom for anyone who is human after the singularity. Dean Kamen observes that advances in technology have finally made immortality a reasonable goal. At the end of the film, Kurzweil states, \"if I was asked if god exists, I would say not yet.\"\n\n\nAmerican composer Philip Glass scored the original soundtrack for the film. In addition to the \"Transcendent Man\" score, other music from Glass's collection was included in the soundtrack.\n\n\nThe \"Transcendent Man\" tour visited five major cities in the U.S., as well as London. These screenings featured question and answer sessions with director Barry Ptolemy and Ray Kurzweil following the film, as well as V.I.P. receptions.\n\nPtolemaic Productions and Therapy Studios have pursued an alternative distribution strategy for \"Transcendent Man\", going through the Global and Music departments of agency William Morris Endeavor to partner with iTunes and Media-on-Demand for a March 1, 2011 digital release and with New Media for a May 24, 2011 DVD release. Marketing made use of social media and emerging technologies like QR codes to appeal to a tech-savvy audience.\n\n\nOne common criticism of Kurzweil's final prediction is that he does not consider that new technologies are never universally and immediately adopted due to the laws of economics. Start-up costs and economies of scale mean that initially transhumanist technology would be prohibitively expensive for most people. This would cause the wealthy, first adopters of brain enhancing technology to be transcendental above the less fortunate. One response to this criticism uses the technology of the automobile as an example. Even though a rich person might drive an expensive Rolls-Royce, cheaper alternatives are available that perform the same task. In other words, no matter how much two cars differ in price, their function is virtually identical. One important element of Kurzweil's singularity is that the cost will come down to virtually nothing.\n\nKurzweil readily defends AI as being controllable against malicious behavior, which he accepts is a definite threat. He never, on the other hand, confronts the dangers of AI fusing with the first humans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46764211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46764211", "title": "Tubo-ovarian abscess", "text": "Tubo-ovarian abscess\n\nTubo-ovarian abscesses (TOA) are one of the late complications of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) and can be life-threatening if the abscess ruptures and results in sepsis. It consists of an encapsulated or confined 'pocket of pus' with defined boundaries that forms during an infection of a fallopian tube and ovary. These abscesses are found most commonly in reproductive age women and typically result from upper genital tract infection. It is an inflammatory mass involving the fallopian tube, ovary and, occasionally, other adjacent pelvic organs. A TOA can also develop as a complication of a hysterectomy.\n\nPatients typically present with fever, elevated white blood cell count, lower abdominal-pelvic pain, and/or vaginal discharge. Fever and leukocytosis may be absent. TOAs are often polymicrobial with a high percentage of anaerobic bacteria. The cost of treatment in the United States is approximately $2,000 per patient, which equals about $1.5 billion annually. Though rare, TOA can occur without a preceding episode of PID or sexual activity.\n\nThe signs and symptoms of tubo-ovarian abscess (TOA) are the same as with pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) with the exception that the abscess can be found with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), sonography and x-ray. It also differs from PID in that it can create symptoms of acute-onset pelvic pain. Typically this disease is found in sexually active women.\n\nThe development of TOA is thought to begin with the pathogens spreading from the cervix to the endometrium, through the salpinx, into the peritoneal cavity and forming the tubo-ovarian abscess with (in some cases) pelvic peritonitis. TOA can develop from the lymphatic system with infection of the parametrium from an intrauterine device (IUD). Bacteria recovered from TOAs are \"Escherichia coli\", \"Bacteroides fragilis\", other \"Bacteroides\" species, \"Peptostreptococcus\", \"Peptococcus\", and aerobic \"streptococci\". Long term IUD use is associated with TOA. Actinomyces is also recovered from TOA.\n\nLaparoscopy and other imaging tools can visualize the abscess. Physicians are able to make the diagnosis if the abscess ruptures when the woman begins to have lower abdominal pain that then begins to spread. The symptoms then become the same as the symptoms for peritonitis. Sepsis occurs, if left untreated. Ultrasonography is a sensitive enough imaging tool that it can accurately differentiate between pregnancy, hemorrhagic ovarian cysts, endometriosis, ovarian torsion, and tubo-ovarian abscess. Its availability, the relative advancement in the training of its use, its low cost, and because it does not expose the woman (or fetus) to ionizing radiation, ultrasonography an ideal imaging procedure for women of reproductive age.\n\nRisk factors have been identified which indicate what women will be more likely to develop TOA. These are: increased age, IUD insertion, chlamydia infection, and increased levels of certain proteins (CRP and CA-125) and will alert clinicians to follow up on unresolved symptoms of PID.\n\nTreatment for TOA differs from PID in that some clinicians recommend patients with tubo-ovarian abscesses have at least 24 hours of inpatient parenteral treatment with antibiotics, and that they may require surgery. If surgery becomes necessary, pre-operative administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics is started and removal of the abscess, the affected ovary and fallopian tube is done. After discharge from the hospital, oral antibiotics are continued for the length of time prescribed by the physician.\n\nTreatment is different if the TOA is discovered before it ruptures and can be treated with IV antibiotics. During this treatment, IV antibiotics are usually replaced with oral antibiotics on an outpatient basis. Patients are usually seen three days after hospital discharge and then again one to two weeks later to confirm that the infection has cleared. Ampicillin/sulbactam plus doxycycline is effective against C. trachomatis, N. gonorrhoeae, and anaerobes in women with tubo-ovarian abscess. Parenteral Regimens described by the Centers for Disease Control and prevention are Ampicillin/Sulbactam 3 g IV every 6 hours and Doxycycline 200 mg orally or IV every 24 hours, though other regiemes that are used for pelvic inflammatory disease have been effective.\n\nComplications of TOA are related to the possible removal of one or both ovaries and fallopian tubes. Without these reproductive structures, fertility can be affected. Surgical complications can develop and include:\n\n\nThe epidemiology of TOA is closely related to that of pelvic inflammatory disease which is estimated to one million people yearly.\n"}
{"id": "3277960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3277960", "title": "Unassisted childbirth", "text": "Unassisted childbirth\n\nUnassisted childbirth (UC) refers to the process of intentionally giving birth without the assistance of a medical birth attendant. It may also be known as freebirth, DIY (do-it-yourself) birth, unhindered birth, and unassisted home birth.\n\nUnassisted childbirth is by definition a planned process, and is thus distinct from unassisted birth due to reasons of emergency, lack of access to a skilled birth attendant, or other. It is also different from homebirth, although most UCs \"do\" happen within the home.\n\nVital Statistics Canada defines an \"unassisted/unattended\" birth as one that takes plece without a registered medical attendant, regardless of what other birth professionals may have been in attendance (doulas, non-medical or traditional birth attendants, etc.) Many \"unassisted\" births involve the attendance of a non-medical birth attendant, though the definition of unassisted birth sometimes means there is only family or peers in attendance and no professional support whatsoever.\n\nThe UC movement grew out of, and is an extension of the natural childbirth movement, pioneers of which include Grantly Dick-Read, Robert A. Bradley, and Fernand Lamaze. Influential proponents of UC include Marilyn A. Moran, Jeannine Parvati Baker, and Laura K. Shanley.\n\nMoran, who wrote several books advocating UC, was motivated primarily by a strong belief that childbirth is a private, deeply sexual experience that should be shared only between intimates. This belief led her in 1972, after nine conventional births, to give birth to her tenth and final child with only her husband in attendance at their home.\n\nParvati Baker, a yogini, writer, poet, herbalist, and \"spiritual midwife\", coined the term \"freebirth\" to describe UC. Following the birth of her first three children, and at the prompting of Moran, she began to both practice and advocate UC, speaking at conferences, giving interviews in various media, and writing extensively on the subject. Her subsequent three children were delivered with only her partner in attendance.\n\nShanley, a writer, poet, and self-styled birth consultant, is the author of the book \"Unassisted Childbirth\" (1993), which helped popularize the practice. Inspired by the writings of Dick-Read, Shanley, who has no formal training in gynecology or obstetrics, gave birth to all five of her own children unassisted and with no prenatal care. Four of them survived; Shanley's fourth child, born four weeks premature in her bathroom, died a few hours later of a heart defect, pneumonia, and sepsis.\n\nIn response to the recent growth in interest over unassisted childbirth, several national medical societies, including the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and the Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, have issued strongly worded public statements warning against the practice. Professional midwives' associations, including the Royal College of Midwives and the American College of Nurse-Midwives also caution against UC.\n\nReasons and motivations for choosing to give birth unassisted range greatly from mother to mother; those most frequently cited in unassisted childbirth literature and advocacy sites include the belief that birth is a normal function of the female body and therefore not a medical emergency. Other beliefs are that most interventions commonly used by the medical profession during birth cause more harm than good in a normal birth, that the mother will be more apt to follow the natural flow of her individual birth in an undisturbed birth setting, thus enabling her to find the optimum positions or techniques to birth her child safely, and the view that birth is an intimate, sexual, and potentially orgasmic experience, and the belief that privacy is essential for enabling this erotic dimension.\n\nAdvocates believe that unassisted birth gives rise to a significant increase in maternal feelings and the mother's ability to bond with and take responsibility for the welfare of her child. Some followers are unable to find a birth practitioner willing to attend their desired home birth. In many areas of the United States, there are no midwives or physicians available to assist at home births. Likewise, the woman may find her specific case presents difficulty in finding a willing practitioner, as is usually the case with a vaginal birth after caesarean section (VBAC).\n\nUnassisted with friends and/or family:\nWhile unassisted childbirth does not include the use of medical personnel or birth attendants in a professional capacity, the birthing woman may still wish to have other people present at her birth. This might include her partner, close friends of the mother, the grandparents-to-be, or other family members. These people may take on various roles such as minding the other children in the family, preparing food, making sure the mother remains undisturbed by phone calls, etc.\n\nCouple's Birth:\nA woman giving birth and her partner may wish to be alone together for the birth of their child. Some couples who choose unassisted childbirth consider the birth to be a consummation or extension of their married life. In terms of wanting to have an ecstatic or orgasmic birth, a high degree of privacy is desired. Others may simply consider birth to be an intimate bonding time between the spouses and their newborn child.\n\nSolo Birth:\nSome women choose to give birth completely alone. They may retreat to a room alone at the time of the birth and then bring their partner in afterward; or they may remain entirely alone in their home or another location. Women who choose a solo unassisted birth may see birthing as an intensely private process, or may feel they have all the resources they need through their intuition.\n\nFreebirth: Giving birth without any health care provider supervision. Sometimes used synonymously with \"unassisted birth\", and sometimes used to describe any birth without medically licensed professionals present, regardless of who else may or not be in attendance in a supportive role.\n\nWith respect to medical prenatal care, two broad categories are recognized by unassisted childbirth proponents:\n\nAssisted: Many women who are planning an unassisted birth choose to have professional prenatal care as part of their birth preparation. This may include regular prenatal visits with a doctor or monitoring by a midwife. Seeking the assistance of a doctor or midwife may allow for discovering risk factors that might make an unassisted birth inadvisable, such as placenta praevia. Professional prenatal care may also help identify risk factors that could be managed so that the unassisted birth can continue as planned. Rather than keep to a traditional prenatal care schedule, some women may also selectively choose prenatal care.\n\nUnassisted: Some women who choose UC also choose to have a medically unassisted pregnancy; i.e. they do not visit a doctor or other birth professional for prenatal care. There are potentially life-threatening consequences of having no medical follow-up in case there are complications.\n\nUnited States:\nThe National Center for Health Statistics reports that of the 4.1 million babies born in the United States in 2004, more than 7,000 were born at home without a midwife or physician attending. It is unknown what portion of these births, roughly equivalent to a sixth of 1% of the nation's annual total, occurred by choice.\n\nAustralia:\nIt is not currently known how many women in Australia give birth at home by choice without medical assistance. Home births in Australia represent just 0.25 percent of all births, with the majority of these done with the assistance of a midwife.\n\nUnassisted childbirth has been linked to substantially elevated rates of both maternal and neonatal mortality. One of the few, and perhaps the only, formal investigation of the mortality rates associated with the practice was conducted by the Indiana State Board of Health in 1984, among members of a religious community in Indiana. The investigation found a perinatal mortality rate 2.7 times higher, and a maternal mortality rate 97 times higher than the state average. In this community, pregnant women receive no prenatal medical care and deliver at home without medical assistance. This community avoids not only prenatal medical care but all medical care.\n\nAccording to the president of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Thomas Purdon, twenty percent of all previously normal pregnancies turn into complications and high-risk situations during the course of labor that could result in serious adverse outcome to mother and baby, including death.\n\nControversy over the practice of UC has largely centered over whether it is, as claimed by proponents, a safe method of childbirth. Critics of UC, such as the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada (SOGC), claim that unassisted childbirth is quite unsafe, and that those who engage in it are \"courting danger\". A spokesperson for the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists issued a one-word assessment of freebirth: \"dangerous\". The SOGC notes that more than 500,000 women worldwide die annually from complications during childbirth, and that even in developed countries, in which expectant mothers generally receive complete prenatal care, as many as 15% of all births involve potentially fatal complications. In poor countries in which there are conditions of malnutrition and taboos surrounding childbirth or there is a lack of qualified birth attendants, rates of maternal and infant mortality and complications such as fistula are much higher, with disparities in death rates from childbirth between developed and developing countries approaching two orders of magnitude. Critics also point out the high rates of complication and death arising from childbirth that existed before the development of modern medicine: between 10 and 15 deaths per 1000 births.\n\nUC proponents have responded to these criticisms by emphasizing that childbirth is not a disease, but rather a natural, physiological process requiring proper nutrition, hygiene, prenatal self-care, and psychological preparation. They claim that both throughout history and in the impoverished regions of today's world it has not been the lack of medical assistance, but rather conditions of poverty and nutritional ignorance which cause maternal mortality to be a major health issue. Rickets, for example, is prevalent in daughters of malnourished women, resulting in deformation of the pelvis and an increased chance of hemorrhage in scenarios of anemia. Proponents assert that the women who plan unassisted childbirth today (many of whom are giving birth to their second or third child, with a 'proven' pelvis), do so with a wealth of information and self-care, and are better prepared than most women who depend on care providers to deliver their child.\n\nSome proponents have also claimed that modern maternal mortality rates in American hospitals are often obscured by being statistically tracked under 'anesthesiology'. However, evidence suggests that if this is in fact the case, the practice is unlikely to account for more than a small fraction of maternal deaths: one study of maternal mortality records lists the \"total\" share of maternal mortality deaths recorded as stemming from anesthesia-related complications as just 5.2%. A study of anesthesia-related maternal mortality in the United States between 1979 and 2002 found the share of maternal mortality deaths caused by anesthesia to be just 1.6%, and that the share had dropped 59% between the time periods examined.\n\nOther aspects of this response have also been called into question by scientific research. First, an analysis of historical data from Europe and the United States concluded that in developed countries, the main determinant of maternal mortality before 1937, and its decline since the 1930s, was \"not\" levels of poverty and associated malnutrition, but rather the overall standard of maternal care provided by birth attendants.\n\nSecond, with respect to UC proponents' claim that unassisted childbirth is a natural process, researchers in the field of paleoanthropology have asserted that \"assisted\" childbirth is, in fact, a central evolutionary aspect of humanity, and may date back as far as five million years to when humanity's ancestors first began walking upright.\n\nOn 27 March 2009, Janet Fraser, a leading advocate of UC and national convener of the highly popular \"Joyous Birth\" website, lost her child during a birth assisted only by her partner and a female friend. In an interview five days earlier with The Sunday Age, Fraser, in the early stages of labor at the time, stated that she had at no point during her pregnancy consulted with a health professional, and that she intended to deliver the baby at her home without an attending midwife. The cause of death was reported to be cardiac arrest. A coronial inquest concluded in 2012 that Roisin Fraser's death was the result of a complication resulting from cord entanglement, was almost certainly preventable if the birth had proceeded in a maternity unit, and was probably preventable if the birth at home had been attended by a registered midwife. It also found that Fraser's claim of \"birthrape\" during her first birth followed a planned homebirth attended by a midwife, where Fraser herself requested transfer to a hospital for epidural anaesthesia, and then subsequently requested a caesarean birth without medical indications and against medical advice.\n\n"}
{"id": "47604617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47604617", "title": "Viva Piñata", "text": "Viva Piñata\n\nViva Piñata is a video game franchise by Microsoft Studios and Rare. The series' first game, \"Viva Piñata\" (2006), was conceived as a mobile gardening game before Rare was acquired by Microsoft. It was released on Xbox 360. It launched alongside an animated series produced by 4Kids. The game received two console sequels: \"\" (2007) and \"\" (2008), as well as a handheld release, \"\" (2008), for the Nintendo DS.\n\nRare co-founder Tim Stamper conceptualized a gardening game for the handheld Pocket PC platform around 2002. A small (three-person) team began work on a simple prototype while the Rare was still affiliated with Nintendo, prior to its Microsoft acquisition. The game's development transferred to the original Xbox and, ultimately, to the Xbox 360 for its graphics capabilities. Rare wanted its animals to have a unified style, which was how the game's concept artist arrived at the piñata concept. The idea was exciting to Rare, as piñatas were not commonplace in England. The connection between piñatas and candy-filled insides led to new gameplay directions.\n\nThe \"Viva Piñata\" team was a model for productivity and regular output within Rare and Microsoft Studios. Though compared to the 12-person teams behind earlier Rare games, the company's Xbox 360 development teams consisted of 50 to 60 people. The \"Viva Piñata\" team included about 50 people at its zenith. Microsoft also transitioned its development teams to use the company's XNA package to streamline and reduce duplication in engineering efforts. Microsoft pressured the \"Viva Piñata\" development team to keep the game's themes kid-friendly, as the parent company planned for the game and resulting franchise to increase the market appeal of their Xbox 360. In 2006, a Microsoft Games executive called the game its most important franchise. But its reception was tepid.\n\nAs Rare released the original \"Viva Piñata\" for the Xbox 360 in 2006, its development team saw it as incomplete. The developers had cut partial ideas from the release in order to meet their deadlines. Rare's Gregg Mayles said that the game sold well and steadily on par with their expectations and Xbox's Phil Spencer added that the game was considered a success inside the company. The team incorporated player feedback and worked towards a \"more definitive version\" of the original. Mayles left the team to work on \"\" and Justin Cook became the team's lead designer. The sequel was built atop the original and the developers re-used many of the tools from the original game's development. In both the sequel and the original, the development team volunteered to record the sounds used for the piñatas. One of the team's new ideas was \"Piñata Vision\", a feature that detects printed cards via the Xbox camera to change the in-game environment (e.g, adding piñatas or altering the weather). Near the time of the sequel's release, Rare's Mayles figured that the team would likely not have enough new gameplay ideas to warrant a sequel to \"Trouble in Paradise\", though Cook said that he would work on the game's shop interface had he more time. The games were later re-released on the 2015 compilation of Rare games, \"Rare Replay\", but the server that handled their piñata sharing features had been shut down by that time.\n\nIn-between the two series releases, Rare released \"\". In early 2007, a Microsoft Games executive had expressed interest in continuing the series onto the Nintendo DS platform. Rare had attempted to make \"Trouble in Paradise\" camera features work with \"Pocket Paradise\", but chose instead to release the games on time.\n\n\n\"Viva Piñata\" was planned as a larger intellectual property. 4Kids TV had agreed to make a \"Viva Piñata\" cartoon before the game was released. 4Kids selected the series out of several Microsoft properties offered. 4Kids also handled the series merchandising. The cartoon is tied very closely to the game, and its animations are based on the game's own 3D character models. Its episodes are approved by Rare's Gregg Mayles for their applicability to the game. The cartoon was also designed to give viewers tips on how to interact with the in-game piñatas. The animated series' storyline later influenced the plot of \"Trouble in Paradise\".\n"}
{"id": "43435134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43435134", "title": "Æthelstan A", "text": "Æthelstan A\n\nÆthelstan A () is the name given by historians to an unknown scribe who drafted charters (or diplomas), by which the king made grants of land, for King Æthelstan of England between 928 and 935. They are an important source for historians as they provide far more information than other charters of the period, showing the date and place of the grant, and having an unusually long list of witnesses, including Welsh kings and occasionally kings of Scotland and Strathclyde.\n\nThe Æthelstan A charters commence shortly after King Æthelstan conquered Northumbria in 927, making him the first king to rule the whole of England. The diplomas give the king titles such as \"King of the English\" and \"King of the Whole of Britain\", and this is seen by historians as part of a rhetoric which reflected his master's claim for a new status, higher than previous West Saxon kings.\n\nThe diplomas are written in elaborate Latin known as the \"hermeneutic style\", which became dominant in Anglo-Latin literature from the mid-tenth century and a hallmark of the English Benedictine Reform. Scholars vary widely in their views of his style, which has been described as \"pretentious\" and \"almost impenetrable\", but also as \"poetic\" and \"as enduringly fascinating as it is complex\".\n\nÆthelstan A ceased to draft charters after 935, and his successors returned to a simpler style, suggesting that he was working on his own rather than being a member of a royal scriptorium.\n\nAfter the death of Bede in 735, Latin prose in England declined. It reached its lowest level in the ninth century, when few books and charters were produced, and they were of poor quality. King Æthelstan's grandfather, Alfred the Great (871–899), embarked on an extensive programme to improve learning, and by the 890s the standard of Latin in charters was improving. Few charters survive from the reigns of Alfred and his son, Edward the Elder (899–924), and none from 909 to 925. Until then, charters had generally been plain legal documents, and King Æthelstan's early diplomas were similar.\n\nUntil about 900, diplomas appear to have been drawn up in varying traditions and circumstances, but in later Anglo-Saxon times (c. 900–1066) charters can be more clearly defined. According to Simon Keynes:\nIn this period, a diploma can be characterised as a formal and symbolic record, in Latin, of an occasion when the king, acting in a royal assembly, and with the consent of the ecclesiastical and secular orders, created an estate of \"bookland\" at a specified place, and conveyed it on the privileged terms defined by the \"book\", or diploma, to a named beneficiary. This act of establishing a particular estate as bookland, so that it could be held henceforth on these privileged terms, could be performed only by the king, in a royal assembly; but the diploma itself served hereafter as the title-deed for the land in question. It established that the land was to be held, with its appurtenances, free from the imposition of worldly burdens, with the exception of military service, bridge-work and fortress-work, and with the power to give it to anyone of its owner's choosing.\n\nIn the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries there was a debate among historians as to whether late Anglo-Saxon charters were produced by a royal chancery or by monasteries on behalf of beneficiaries. In the 1910s, W. H. Stevenson argued that charters in different areas of England were drawn up by the same hand, which would be unlikely if they were drawn up locally, supporting the case that the writers were royal clerks. The German scholar Richard Drögereit followed this up in 1935 by examining original charters between 931 and 963, and identified three scribes from their handwriting, whom he called Æthelstan A, Æthelstan C and Edmund C. Other charters which only existed in copies he allocated to these and other scribes on the basis of their style. In 2002 Keynes listed twenty \"Æthelstan A\" charters, of which two are original and the rest copies.\n\nThe boundary clauses of the Æthelstan A charters were written in correct Old English, so it is unlikely that he was of foreign origin. The witness lists of the Æthelstan A charters consistently place Bishop Ælfwine of Lichfield in Mercia in a higher position than his rank warranted. King Æthelstan was probably brought up in Mercia, and in Sarah Foot's view he was probably intimate with Ælfwine before King Edward's death; as Ælfwine disappeared from the witness lists at the same time as the Æthelstan A charters ended, she suggests that he may have been Æthelstan A. Keynes thinks it more likely Æthelstan A was a king's priest from Mercia, who acquired his learning in a Mercian religious house and respected Ælfwine as a fellow Mercian; that Æthelstan A entered Æthelstan's service before he became king and was in permanent attendance on him. David Woodman also considers a Mercian origin likely, pointing out that some Mercian ninth-century charters have borrowings from Aldhelm, an important source of Æthelstan A's style. Woodman also puts forward the alternative idea that Æthelstan A had a connection with Glastonbury Abbey in Wessex, which appears to have been a centre of learning at this time, and certainly housed many of the texts which informed Æthelstan A's idiosyncratic Latin style.\n\nThe first charter produced by Æthelstan A in 928 described the king as \"rex Anglorum\", \"king of the English\", the first time that title had been used. By 931 he had become \"king of the English, elevated by the right hand of the Almighty to the throne of the whole kingdom of Britain\". Some charters were witnessed by Welsh kings, and occasionally by the kings of Scotland and Strathclyde, signifying acceptance of Æthelstan's lordship. In Keynes's view, it cannot be a coincidence that the charters commenced immediately after the conquest of Northumbria, and Æthelstan A's primary aim was to display the \"grandeur of Æthelstan's kingship\". Foot argues that the king's inner circle quickly seized on the potential of the conquest for \"ideological aggrandizement of the king's public standing\". To Keynes, the diplomas \"are symbolic of a monarchy invigorated by success, developing the pretensions commensurate with its actual achievements and clothing itself in the trappings of a new political order.\" He sees the fifty years from 925 to 975 as \"the golden age of the Anglo-Saxon royal diploma\".\n\nBefore 928 charters had been produced in various ways, sometimes by royal priests, sometimes by other priests on behalf of the beneficiaries. Æthelstan A was solely responsible for the production of charters between 928 and 934. King Æthelstan thus took unprecedented control over an important part of his functions. In 935 Æthelstan A shared the work with other scribes, and he then apparently retired. His charters have exceptionally long witness lists, with 101 names for a grant by the king to his thegn Wulfgar at Lifton in Devon in 931, and 92 for a grant to Ælfgar at Winchester in 934. The witness lists of King Æthelstan's father and grandfather were much shorter, with the longest in Alfred the Great's reign having only 19 names. In John Maddicott's view the long lists in Æthelstan's reign reflect a change of direction to larger assemblies. The king established a novel system, with his scribe travelling with him from meeting to meeting, and a uniform format of charters. The dating clause showed the regnal year, the indiction, the epact, and the age of the moon. In Keynes's view: \"Nothing quite like them had been seen before; and they must have seemed magnificent, even intimidating, in their formality and their grandeur.\" A unique feature is that three charters in favour of a religious community require it to sing a specified number of psalms for the king, indicating a particular interest in psalmody by the king or scribe.\n\nFrankish annalists usually recorded a king's location at Easter and Christmas, but this was not a practice of English chroniclers, and the only period in the tenth and eleventh centuries for which historians can construct a partial itinerary of the king's movements is provided by the location of assemblies recorded in Æthelstan A's charters of 928 to 935. Other charters rarely named the place of assembly, apart from a group in the 940s and early 950s known as the \"alliterative\" charters.\n\nIn 935 a new simplified format was introduced by other scribes, apparently while Æthelstan A was still active, and became the standard until the late 950s. This coincided with the disappearance of Wulfstan I, Archbishop of York from the witness lists, and greater prominence of the Bishops of London and Bishop of Winchester, and the new format may have reflected a change of outlook at court. As charters were no longer written in his distinctive style when he ceased producing them, it is likely he was working on his own rather than heading a royal scriptorium.\n\nThe standard of Latin prose improved in the tenth century, especially after about 960, when the leaders of the Benedictine reform movement adopted the elaborate and ornate style of Latin now called by historians the \"hermeneutic style\". Use of this style, influenced especially by Aldhelm's \"De virginitate\", dates back to King Æthelstan's reign. Æthelstan A borrowed heavily from Aldhelm; he would not copy whole sentences, only a word or a few words, incorporating them in a structure reminiscent of Aldhelm's works. In Woodman's view, \"Æthelstan A\" varied the language in each charter out of a delight in experimentation and to demonstrate his literary ability.\n\nThe florid style of seventh-century Irish texts known as Hiberno-Latin was influential on the Continent due to the work of Irish missionaries in Europe. Some works were known to English writers such as Aldhelm in the same century, but it is likely that Æthelstan A learnt of them from continental scholars such as Israel the Grammarian, who brought texts influenced by Hiberno-Latin to King Æthelstan's court.\n\nWoodman states that: \"whilst it is true that the main impetus for the literary revival of Latin prose occurred from the mid-tenth century, the beginnings of this style of Latin can actually be found rather earlier and in the most unlikely of places. In fact it is \"diplomas\" of the 920s and 930s that are the first to display this distinctive Latin in its most exuberant form.\" According to Scott Thompson Smith Æthelstan A's diplomas \"are generally characterised by a rich pleonastic style with aggressively literary proems and anathemas, ostentatious language and imagery throughout, decorative rhetorical figures, elaborate dating clauses, and extensive witness lists. These are clearly documents with stylistic ambitions.\" Few listeners would have understood them when they were read out at royal assemblies. In Charter S 425 of 934, the second of the two originals to survive, Æthelstan A wrote (in Smith's translation):\nThe wanton fortune of the deceiving world, not lovely with the milky-white radiance of unfading lilies but odious with the galling bitterness of woeful corruption, raging with venomous jaws tears with its teeth the sons of fetid flesh in the vale of tears; although with its smiles it may be alluring to the unfortunate, it brazenly leads down to the lowest depths of Acherontic Cocytus unless the offspring of the High-Thunderer should intervene. And so because that ruinous [fortune] mortally fades away in its failing, one must especially hasten to pleasant fields of ineffable joy where the angelic music of hymnal jubilation and the mellifluous scent of blooming roses are sensed as sweet beyond measure by good and blessed noses and heard by ears as the delights of musical instrument without end.\n\nIn S 416 of 931, the first original to survive, after the boundary clause in Old English, he reverted to Latin for the anathema against anyone who set aside the charter:\nIf, however, God forbid, anyone swollen with diabolic spirit should be tempted to diminish or annul this brief document of my arrangement and confirmation, let him know that on the final and great day of judgment, when the archangel's shrill trumpet rings out, when graves burst open by themselves and give up the bodies now revived, when every element trembles, with the traitor Judas, who is called \"son of perdition\" by the Sower's merciful Offspring, he is to perish in eternal confusion within the hungry flames of unspeakable torments.\n\nSome scholars are not impressed. Michael Lapidge describes Æthelstan A's style as \"pretentious\", and according to Mechtild Gretsch the diplomas\nare composed in almost impenetrable Latin. Their proems consist of long convoluted sentences, parading an ostentatious display of Greek and glossary-based vocabulary and containing numerous unmistakable verbal reminiscences of Aldhelm's writings. Nothing similar had previously been attempted in Anglo-Saxon diplomatic and although, later in the tenth century, other charters affecting the hermeneutic style were composed, the ferocious lexical and syntactical difficulties of these Æthelstan charters were never to be surpassed.\n\nOn the other hand, Drögereit describes Æthelstan A's style as having a \"poetic quality\", and Woodman describes him as an \"author of no little genius, a man who not only overhauled the legal form of the diploma but also had the ability to write Latin that is as enduringly fascinating as it is complex.\" In Woodman's view: \"Never before had the royal diploma's rhetorical properties been exploited to such a degree and it seems no coincidence that these documents appeared following King Æthelstan's momentous political conquest of the north in 927.\"\n\nKeynes listed the Æthelstan A charters in Table XXVII of his \"Atlas of Attestations\". The charters are in the script called \"Square minuscule ('Phase II')\", with a Latin text and the boundary clause in the vernacular.\n\n\n"}
