{"id": "11054915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11054915", "title": "100 Best Workplaces in Europe", "text": "100 Best Workplaces in Europe\n\n100 Best Workplaces in Europe is a ranking of the 100 workplaces in Europe performed each year by the Financial Times, in partnership with Great Place to Work. The list is based on employee surveys and a review of the company's culture. Two thirds of the total score is from employee responses to a 57 question survey on the culture of the company. The rest of the score is based on demographics, pay, benefits, culture, and community involvement.\n\nThe 2007 survey winner was the car manufacturer Ferrari of Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "299134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299134", "title": "Accenture", "text": "Accenture\n\nAccenture is a global management consulting and professional services firm that provides strategy, consulting, digital, technology and operations services. A Fortune Global 500 company, it has been incorporated in Dublin, Ireland, since 1 September 2009. In 2018, the company reported net revenues of $39.6 billion, with more than 459,000 employees serving clients in more than 200 cities in 120 countries. In 2015, the company had about 150,000 employees in India, about 48,000 in the US, and about 50,000 in the Philippines. Accenture's current clients include 95 of the Fortune Global 100 and more than three-quarters of the Fortune Global 500.\n\nAccenture common equity is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, under the symbol ACN, and was added to the S&P 500 index on 5 July 2011.\n\nAccenture has five businesses; these are Accenture Strategy, Accenture Consulting, Accenture Digital, Accenture Technology, and Accenture Operations.\n\nAccenture began as the business and technology consulting division of accounting firm Arthur Andersen in the early 1950s when it conducted a feasibility study for General Electric to install a computer at Appliance Park in Louisville, Kentucky, which led to GE's installation of a UNIVAC I computer and printer, believed to be the first commercial use of a computer in the U.S. Joseph Glickauf, an early pioneer of computer consulting, held a position as head of Arthur Andersen's administrative services division.\n\nIn 1989, Arthur Andersen and Andersen Consulting became separate units of Andersen Worldwide Société Coopérative (AWSC). Throughout the 1990s, there was increasing tension between Andersen Consulting and Arthur Andersen. Andersen Consulting was paying Arthur Andersen up to 15% of its profits each year (a provision of the 1989 split was that the more profitable unit – whether AA or AC – pay the other the 15 percent), while at the same time Arthur Andersen was competing with Andersen Consulting through its own newly established business consulting service line called Arthur Andersen Business Consulting (AABC). This dispute came to a head in 1998 when Andersen Consulting put the 15% transfer payment for that year and future years into escrow and issued a claim for breach of contract against AWSC and Arthur Andersen. In August 2000, as a result of the conclusion of arbitration with the International Chamber of Commerce, Andersen Consulting broke all contractual ties with AWSC and Arthur Andersen. As part of the arbitration settlement, Andersen Consulting paid the sum held in escrow (then $1.2 billion) to Arthur Andersen, and was required to change its name, resulting in the entity being renamed Accenture.\n\nOn 1 January 2001, Andersen Consulting adopted its current name, \"Accenture\". The word \"Accenture\" is supposedly derived from \"Accent on the future\". The name \"Accenture\" was submitted by Kim Petersen, a Danish employee from the company's Oslo, Norway office, as a result of an internal competition. Accenture felt that the name should represent its will to be a global consulting leader and high performer, and also intended that the name should not be offensive in any country in which Accenture operates.\nOn 19 July 2001, Accenture's initial public offering (IPO) was priced at $14.50 per share, and the shares began trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE); Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley served as its lead underwriters. Accenture stock closed the day at $15.17, with the day's high at $15.25. On the first day of the IPO, Accenture raised nearly $1.7 billion.\n\nIn October 2002, the Congressional General Accounting Office (GAO) identified Accenture as one of four publicly traded federal contractors that were incorporated in a tax haven. The other three, unlike Accenture, were incorporated in the United States before they re-incorporated in a tax haven, thereby lowering their US taxes. Critics, most notably former CNN journalist Lou Dobbs, have reported Accenture's decision to incorporate in Bermuda as a US tax avoidance ploy, because they viewed Accenture as having been a US-based company. The GAO itself did not characterize Accenture as having been a US-based company; it stated that \"prior to incorporating in Bermuda, Accenture was operating as a series of related partnerships and corporations under the control of its partners through the mechanism of contracts with a Swiss coordinating entity.\"\n\nAccenture engaged in an IT overhaul project for the National Health Service (NHS) in 2003, making headlines when it withdrew from the contract in 2006 over disputes related to delays and cost overruns. The government of the United Kingdom ultimately abandoned the project five years later for the same reasons.\n\nAccenture announced on 26 May 2009 that its board of directors unanimously approved changing the company's place of incorporation from Bermuda to Ireland and would become Accenture plc.\n\nAccenture was chosen to replace CGI Group as the lead contractor for HealthCare.gov in January 2014. In December 2014, Accenture won a $563 million contract to provide ongoing maintenance, software development and technology support for HealthCare.gov through 2019.\n\nIn July 2015, the United States Department of Defense awarded a major Electronic Health Records contract to Cerner, Leidos and Accenture. The contract valued $4.33 billion will serve 55 hospitals and 600 clinics. Accenture Federal Services and Leidos will play the role of configuration specialist, while Cerner is the prime contractor.\n\nOn 29 August 2017, Apple Inc. announced a partnership with Accenture to create iOS business solutions.\n\nIn June 2018, Accenture generated controversy over the amount the firm has been charging to recruit 7,500 Customs and Border Protection officers. Under the $297 million contract, Accenture had been charging the US Government nearly $40,000 per hire, which is more than the annual salary of the average officer.\n\nFor the fiscal year 2018, Accenture reported earnings of US$4.060 billion, with an annual revenue of US$41.603 billion, an increase of 13.2% over the previous fiscal cycle. Accenture's shares traded at over $159 per share, and its market capitalization was valued at over US$104.2 billion in October 2018.\n\nIn 2011, Accenture launched a new campaign of results-based ads featuring clients such as Marriott, Unilever and the Royal Shakespeare Company alongside its slogan “High performance. Delivered”. As of 2017, Interbrand ranked Accenture No. 37 on its list of best global brands. The brand consultancy noted Accenture's focus on branding and marketing of its Accenture Strategy, Accenture Consulting, Accenture Digital, Accenture Technology and Accenture Operations divisions.\n\nFrom at least 2005 until December 2009, Accenture used Tiger Woods as a celebrity spokesperson and advertised using the service mark \"Go on, be a Tiger\" and the ancillary statement \"We know what it takes to be a Tiger\" in association with his image. On 13 December 2009 after details of Woods' extra-marital affairs were exposed, the company terminated Woods' six-year sponsorship deal.\n\nThe company uses a standardised system of branding, with extensive use of the font Graphik.\n\nFrom 1999, the firm's culture was parodied by the webcomic \"Bigtime Consulting\", operated pseudonymously by its San Francisco-based employee James Sanchez.\n\nAccenture actively manages their Wikipedia presence using the public relations company Burson-Marsteller and advertising agency Beutler Ink.\n\nAccenture has implemented policies to reduce gendered discrimination such as gender neutral bathrooms and gender neutral dress-codes. Denise Norris, a transgender activist and Accenture employee, said “In cultures that don’t embrace gender diversity, Accenture’s workplace can become a haven, a safe space for our transgender employees.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13087952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13087952", "title": "Adolph Coors II", "text": "Adolph Coors II\n\nAdolph Herman Joseph Coors Jr. (January 12, 1884 – June 28, 1970) was an American businessman. He was the son of Louisa (Webber) and brewer Adolph Coors, and the second President of Coors Brewing Company.\n\nCoors was a graduate of Cornell University, where he was a member of the Sphinx Head Society and the Beta Delta chapter of Beta Theta Pi. He became an accomplished chemist who worked in prominent positions in the family's brewing and porcelain operations. He married Alice May Kistler (1885–1970) of Denver on May 4, 1912, at the Kistler home by Rev. Van Arsdall. The couple had four children: Adolph Coors III (1915–1960) who was kidnapped and killed in 1960; William K. Coors (1916–2018), Joseph Coors (1917–2003), and May Louise Coors (1923–2008).\n\nCoors had his own brush with kidnapping in 1934. Paul Robert Lane, the former state Prohibition agent for Colorado, along with Clyde Culbertson, former investigator for the federal dry forces, along with two other men conspired to kidnap Adolph Jr. for a ransom of $50,000. The person delivering the money was to proceed to three different checkpoints to ensure no officers were tailing him and then split the money; Coors would be released somewhere around Colorado Springs. Denver police learned of the plot while working on an auto theft ring and Adolph Jr. volunteered to be kidnapped so the police could arrest the suspects. However, Lane was arrested on an auto theft charge and the conspiracy was foiled in advance.\n\nAdolph Coors Jr. died in 1970 at the age of 86 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "9650538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9650538", "title": "Ahmed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud", "text": "Ahmed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud\n\nPrince Ahmed bin Salman al-Saud (17 November 1958 – 22 July 2002) was a member of the House of Saud and a media executive who was also a major figure in international Thoroughbred horse racing.\n\nPrince Ahmed was born in Riyadh on 17 November 1958. He was the third eldest son of Salman bin Abdulaziz, King of Saudi Arabia, and Sultana bin Turki Al Sudairi who died in July 2011. She was a daughter of Prince Salman's uncle, Turki bin Ahmed al Sudairi, a former governor of Asir. Ahmed bin Salman is full brother of Prince Fahd, Prince Sultan, Prince Abdulaziz, Prince Faisal and Princess Hassa.\n\nPrince Ahmed first studied at Colorado School of Mines. He then graduated from Wentworth Military Academy. After graduation, he returned to Saudi Arabia and joined the Saudi Air Force.\n\nLater, Ahmed bin Salman continued his studies in the US and attended University of California, Irvine. He studied comparative culture and graduated from the university in the early 1980s.\n\nIn Saudi Arabia Ahmed bin Salman joined armed forces before dealing with business. After leaving armed forces in 1985 he established ASAS, a company which specialized in maintenance and contracting. He became chairman of Saudi Research and Marketing Group (SRMG) in 1989, a media company with offices in Riyadh and Jeddah as well as in London and Washington D.C. Prince Ahmed also bought 80% of the daily, \"Asharq Al Awsat\", which is a publication of the SRMG.\n\nSRMG is reported to be the largest media company in the Middle East. However, the business was worth $90 million when Prince Ahmed took over the company. Its assets were worth nearly $533 million at the period when he died. After his death his full brother Prince Faisal became the chairman of SRMG.\n\nAhmed bin Salman began horseracing activity with his college friend Richard Mulhall as his horse trainer and eventually his manager of racing operations. First he bought a gray stallion named Jumping Hill. Then, Prince Ahmed began racing under the name Universal Stable until 1994. Later, he created the Thoroughbred Corporation and became the principal partner of this company. In 1999 Ahmed bin Salman won The Derby with Oath. He also won the Preakness and Belmont Stakes with the 2001 horse of the year, Point Given. He also achieved another dream by winning the Kentucky Derby with War Emblem in May 2002, making him the first Arab horse owner to win this race. War Emblem was sold to Prince Ahmed just three weeks before the race after the horse won the Illinois Derby. The price of the horse was $900,000. Prince Faisal, his brother, succeeded him as the head of the Thoroughbred Corporation after his death in 2002.\n\nAhmed bin Salman also owned Spain, horse racing's all-time female money-winner. He is one of only four men to have raced both a Kentucky Derby winner and an Epsom Derby winner. The others are John W. Galbreath, Michael Tabor, and Paul Mellon.\n\nAhmed bin Salman was appointed secretary-general of the Prince Fahd bin Salman Charitable Association for Kidney Patients and a member of the charity’s board of directors following the death of his elder brother Fahd bin Salman in 2001.\n\nPrince Ahmed is survived by his wife, Lamia bint Mishaal, daughter of Mishaal bin Saud Al Saud. He had four daughters and a son. His family owns three percent of Saudi Research and Marketing Group.\n\nAhmed bin Salman died of heart failure at age 43 in Riyadh on 22 July 2002. He was buried in Al Oud cemetery on 23 July 2002 after funeral prayers at the Imam Turki bin Abdullah mosque in Riyadh. His cousin, Sultan bin Faisal bin Turki bin Abdullah, brother of Abdullah bin Faisal, was coming to Riyadh to participate in funeral prayers for Prince Ahmed when he was killed in a car crash. The cousins were buried together.\n\nWith his college friend Richard Mulhall as trainer, he got into the racing business initially as Universal Stable. In 1994 when the operation resurfaced as The Thoroughbred Corporation, with Mulhall retiring as a trainer and taking on the job of racing manager. Mulhall is currently the president of the operation. The pair would go on to racing greatness, both with sales purchases and homebreds. The Thoroughbred Corp.'s roster reads like a who's who of racing in the past decade, with such greats as Sharp Cat, Lear Fan, Jewel Princess, Windsharp, Military, Royal Anthem, Anees, Officer, Habibti, Spain, 2001 Horse of the Year Point Given, and this year's dual classic winner War Emblem. Currently Thoroughbred Corp. has approximately 60 horses in training mostly stabled with Bob Baffert, D. Wayne Lukas, and John Shireffs, along with 45 broodmares, mostly at Mill Ridge Farm in Lexington. His name will always be associated with War Emblem, his one Kentucky Derby winner, which he quipped was \"one of the best investments I ever made in my life, besides buying oil in Saudi Arabia,\" after he won the Preakness. He bought a 90% share in the colt just three weeks before the Derby, and with the win, became the first Arab owner to capture the Roses.\n\nFaisal bin Salman announced in 2004 that Prince Ahmad bin Salman Institute for Applied Media Training would be established to train journalists.\n\nIn \"Why America Slept\" (2003), Gerald Posner claimed that Ahmed bin Salman (along with Sultan bin Faisal bin Turki bin Abdullah and Prince Fahd bin Turki bin Saud al-Kabir) had had ties to al-Qaeda and had advance knowledge of the September 11, 2001 attacks. All three died within days of each other, and soon after the CIA inquired about their possible connection to the attacks. The story was strongly denied by his family, who claimed that he admired the United States, spent a great deal of time at his home there in Bradbury, California, and invested heavily in the American horse racing industry. His friends in American racing stated their knowledge of him and his attitudes made it impossible to believe the allegations.\n\n"}
{"id": "23095874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23095874", "title": "Aleksandr Potupa", "text": "Aleksandr Potupa\n\nAlexander Sergeevich Potupa (; ; March 21, 1945 – June 1, 2009) was a Belarusian philosopher, writer, scientist and human rights activist.\n\nAlexander Sergeevich Potupa was born in Sevastopol, Russia on March 21, 1945, eventually moving to Yeysk, where he went to school. He also became a chess master. From 1961 until his death, he lived in Minsk, Belarus.\n\nIn 1967 he graduated from Moscow State University with MS in Nuclear Physics, Quantum Field Theory. In 1970 he received PhD in Theoretical Physics & Mathematics. By the time of his death Potupa had published approximately 50 works, made 30 appearances at international and national conferences in the areas of nuclear physics, high energy physics, cosmology, electrodynamics, and has done research work at Physics Institute and Belarusian State University.\n\nSoon after the collapse of the Soviet Union Potupa decided to open a private company. Prior to 1988, there were only public/government businesses. From 1989 until 1996, Potupa was the President /Founder of Publishing & Printing Company \"Eridan\", which was the first Private publishing & printing company to open in Belarus. \"Eridan\", won the – Torch of Birmingham awarded for survival in a rough economic environment.\n\nSince 1992 he was a President of Future Studies Center (forecast and social research) where he had performed over 15 complex expert social polls. Potupa published over 100 publications and articles and made over 60 appearances in international and national conferences in the area of forecasting, sociology, political science, economics, and law.\n\nIn 1995 he received a PhD in Philosophy & Futurology (strategic forecasting and information technology). Professor. Dr. Potupa was also a researcher & lecturer in future studies. His specialty was in strategic forecasting, globalization, futurogenic causality, models for Belarus & CIS development, sociology, cosmology, strategy for science.\n\nHe died unexpectedly on June 1, 2009 at the Borovliani Hospital during a lung cancer treatment. The cause of death is thrombus, a blood clot, which separated from his leg blocking path to both of his lungs.\n\nOccupations:<br>\n– President of Center for Future Studies (1992–2009)<br>\n– President of BAE – Belarusian Association of Entrepreneurs (2001–2007), Honorable President of BAE (2008)<br>\n– President /Founder of Publishing & Printing Company \"Eridan\" (1989–1996), 1st Private publishing & printing company in Belarus.\n\nProfessional and Other Memberships:<br>\n– IAIPT (International Academy of Informational Processes and Technologies)<br>\n– IALBA (International Academy of Leaders in Business & Administration)<br>\n– NYAS (New York Academy of Science)<br>\n– NGS (National Geographic Society)<br>\n– WFS (World Future Society)<br>\n– AAAS (American Association for the Advancement of Science)<br>\n– IPC (International Pen Club)<br>\n– BAJ (Belarusian Association of Journalists)<br>\n– BATT (Belarusian Association of Think Tanks)<br>\n– Charter 97 <br>\n– ADNGOB (Assembly of Democratic Non-Governmental Organizations of Belarus)<br>\n– Chairman of the BHRC (Belarusian Human Rights Convention)<br>\n– Chairman of the Belarusian Helsinki-XXI<br>\n– Coordinating Council of BEA (Belarusian Euro-Atlantic Association)\n\nHis publications would include diverse topics in Nuclear physics, cosmology, science history, forecasting and many others.\n\n– Recipient Torch of Birmingham (1995)<br>\n– International Man of Year (Cambridge, England, 1998)<br>\n– Best Analytical Material of the Year (BAJ, Minsk, Belarus, 1999) <br>\n– Outstanding People of 20th Century (Cambridge, England, 1999)<br>\n– For High Achievements in a Science (IAIT, Minsk, Belarus, 2004)<br>\n– For High Achievements in a Science (Gold Medal, IAIT, Minsk, Belarus, 2005)\n\n– Married, 2 kids<br>\n– Wife (Lubov N. Potupa, 1955, manager)<br>\n– Daughter (Elena A. Potoupa, 1975, JD International Law, BS Physics, MBA International Business, President/Owner of Wow Things, Inc., NJ, USA, Internet-\"Oscar\"-2005 Golden Link Award)<br>\n– Son (Andrei A. Potupa, 1976, JD International Law, manager, journalist)<br>\n– Grandson (Antony, 2002)\n\n– In 2009, Elena Potoupa, daughter of Alexander S. Potupa, has established the Dr. Alexander S. Potupa Memorial Scholarship in memory of her late father, a Belarusian writer, philosopher, scientist and civil activist. The scholarship supports international business students.\n\n"}
{"id": "13411300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13411300", "title": "Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine", "text": "Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine\n\nAstellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine is a subsidiary of Astellas Pharma located in Marlborough, Massachusetts, developing stem cell therapies with a focus on diseases that cause blindness. It was formed in 1994 as a company named Advanced Cell Technology, Incorporated (ACT), which was renamed to Ocata Therapeutics in November 2014. In February 2016 Ocata acquired by Astellas for $379 million. which was finally completed in February 2016.\n\nAdvanced Cell Technology was formed in 1994 and was led from 2005 to late 2010 by William M. Caldwell IV, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Upon Mr. Caldwell's death on December 13, 2010, Gary Rabin, a member of ACT's board of directors with experience in investment and capital raising, assumed the role of Chairman and CEO.\n\nIn 2007 the company's Chief Scientific Officer (CSO), Michael D. West, PhD, also founder of Geron () left Ocata to join a regenerative medicine firm, BioTime () as CEO. In 2008, for $250,000 plus royalties up to a total of $1 million, the company licensed its \"ACTCellerate\" technology to BioTime. Robert Lanza was appointed CSO.\n\nOn November 22, 2010, the company announced that it had received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to initiate the first human clinical trial using embryonic stem cells to treat retinal diseases. A preliminary report of the trial published in 2012, and a follow-up article was published in February 2015.\n\nIn July 2014, Ocata announced that Paul K. Wotton, previously of Antares Pharma Inc (ATRS:NASDAQ CM), became President and Chief Executive Officer.\n\nOn August 27, 2014, Ocata announced a 1-100 reverse stock split of its common stock. Ocata was listed on NASDAQ in February 2015.\n\nOn November 30, 2010, Ocata filed an Investigational New Drug application with the U.S. FDA for the first clinical trial using embryonic stem cells to regenerate retinal pigment epithelium to treat Dry Age-Related Macular Degeneration (Dry AMD). Dry AMD is the most common form of macular degeneration and represents a market size of $25–30 Billion in the U.S. and Europe.\n\nIn November 2010 the FDA allowed Ocata to begin a Phase I/II human clinical trial to use its retinal pigment epithelium cell therapy to treat Stargardt disease, a form of inherited juvenile macular degeneration.\n\n"}
{"id": "308882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=308882", "title": "Australian Recording Industry Association", "text": "Australian Recording Industry Association\n\nThe Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) is a trade group representing the Australian recording industry which was established in 1983 by six major record companies, EMI, Festival, CBS, RCA, WEA and Universal replacing the Association of Australian Record Manufacturers (AARM) which was formed in 1956. It oversees the collection, administration and distribution of music licenses and royalties.\n\nThe association has more than 100 members, including small labels typically run by one to five people, medium size organisations and very large companies with international affiliates. ARIA is administered by a Board of Directors comprising senior executives from record companies, both large and small. As of October 2010, the directors were Denis Handlin (chair, CEO of Sony Music), George Ash (Universal Music), Mark Poston (EMI), Sebastian Chase (MGM Distribution), David Vodica (Rubber Records/Music) and Tony Harlow (WAR).\n\nIn 1956, the Association of Australian Record Manufacturers (AARM) was formed by Australia's major record companies. It was replaced in 1983 by the Australian Recording Industry Association, which was established by the six major record companies operating in Australia, EMI (now part of Universal Music Group), Festival Records, CBS (now known as Sony Music), RCA (now part of Sony Music), WEA (now known as Warner Music Group) and Polygram (now known as Universal). It later included smaller record companies representing independent acts/labels and has over 100 members. By 1997, the six major labels provided 90% of all recordings made in Australia. ARIA is administered by a Board of Directors comprising senior executives from record companies, both large and small. As of October 2010, the directors were Denis Handlin (chair, CEO of Sony Music), George Ash (Universal Music), Mark Poston (EMI), Sebastian Chase (MGM Distribution), David Vodica (Rubber Records/Music) and Tony Harlow (WAR).\n\nAustralian TV pop music show \"Countdown\" presented its own annual awards ceremony, , which was co-produced by Carolyn James (a.k.a. Carolyn Bailey) during 1981–1984 in collaboration with ARIA. ARIA provided peer voting for some awards, while \"Countdown\" provided coupons in the related \"Countdown Magazine\" for viewers to vote for populist awards. At the 1985 \"Countdown\" awards ceremony, held on 14 April 1986, fans of INXS and Uncanny X-Men scuffled during the broadcast and as a result ARIA decided to hold their own awards.\n\nSince 2 March 1987, ARIA administered its own entirely peer-voted ARIA Music Awards, to \"recognise excellence and innovation in all genres of Australian music\" with an annual ceremony. Initially included in the same awards ceremonies, it established the ARIA Hall of Fame in 1988 and has held separate annual ceremonies since 2005. The ARIA Hall of Fame \"honours Australian musicians' achievements [that] have had a significant impact in Australia or around the world\".\n\nIn February 2004, the Australian Record Industry Association (ARIA) announced its own legal action against Kazaa, alleging massive copyright breaches. The trial began on 29 November 2004. On 6 February 2005, the homes of two Sharman Networks executives and the offices of Sharman Networks in Australia were raided under a court order by ARIA to gather evidence for the trial.\n\nIn 2006, ARIA formed sponsorship deals with Motorola and Nova and changed the appearance and conduct of the charting. Motorola took naming-rights sponsorship seeing the charts referred to in the media as the Motorola ARIA Charts. ARIA, have commented that as part of the same marketing printed charts would be reintroduced into media retailing shops and their website would be redesigned. As part of the deal Nova began broadcasting the charted singles in reverse order on a Sunday afternoon show before it was released on the ARIA charts website.\n\nThe ARIA Charts is the main Australian music sales charts, issued weekly by the Australian Recording Industry Association. The charts are a record of the highest selling singles and albums in various genres. All charts are compiled from data of both physical and digital sales from retailers in Australia.\n\nThe ARIA No. 1 Chart Awards were established in 2002 to recognise Australian recording artists, who reached number one on the ARIA albums, singles and music DVDs charts.\n\nThe ARIA Music Awards is an annual series of awards nights celebrating the Australian music industry. The event has been held annually since 1987; it encompasses the general genre-specific and popular awards known as the ARIA Awards, as well as the Fine Arts Awards and Artisan Awards (held separately from 2004), Lifetime Achievement Awards and the ARIA Hall of Fame (held separately from 2005 to 2010 but returned to the general ceremony in 2011).\n\nLike most recording industry associations, ARIA has been criticised for fighting copyright infringement matters aggressively, although in Australia this has largely taken the form of aggressive advertising campaigns particularly in cinemas directly preceding movies. This criticism is stauncher in Australia due to the absence of an equivalent Digital Millennium Copyright Act or state crimes acts which clearly establish copyright infringement as a crime.\nIn February 2004, the Australian Record Industry Association (ARIA) took legal action against Kazaa, alleging massive copyright breaches. The trial began on 29 November 2004. On 6 February 2005, the homes of two Sharman Networks executives and the offices of Sharman Networks in Australia were raided under a court order by ARIA to gather evidence for the trial.\n\nThe ARIA charts have also been criticised as an easily manipulated market tool abused by aggressively marketed pop acts. \"Gold\" and \"Platinum\" ARIA awards are based on units shipped to retail outlets, not on how many of those units are sold to customers. A lukewarm album or single release can achieve Gold or Platinum status by flooding the market with copies, and if 99% are returned to the manufacturer that in no way affects the status of the award.\n\nARIA has been criticised by former \"Australian Idol\" judge and record producer Ian Dickson for a perceived intolerance of \"Australian Idol\" contestants, and a lack of nomination in the ARIA Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46991115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46991115", "title": "Autographic Register", "text": "Autographic Register\n\nAn Autographic Register is a business machine invented in 1883 by James C. Shoup. The device consisted two separate rolls of paper interleaved with carbon paper. Usually one or both of the rolls would be preprinted with form information. To operate the machine the user would write, for example, a sales receipt and the machine automatically produced a copy. The crank on the machine ejected the records and moved a blank form into view. The original receipt produced would go to the user and the copy was filed. Shoup founded the Autographic Register Company in Hoboken, NJ to manufacture his invention.\n\nThe Autographic Register was an advance over use of separate forms and carbon paper as it guaranteed that the copy was made and kept the forms in relative alignment. A number of advancements were soon made, including the use of sprocket-fed paper, invented by Theodore Schirmer. This helped avoid slippage and misalignment of forms, allowing more copies to be produced simultaneously. In 1912 Schirmer founded the Standard Register Company in Dayton, Ohio.\n\nThe invention of sprocket-fed paper later found use in computer printers.\n\nAlthough the Autographic Register has been largely replaced by newer technology it remains in use as of 2015.\n"}
{"id": "4846954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4846954", "title": "Cameron Kerry", "text": "Cameron Kerry\n\nCameron Forbes Kerry (born September 6, 1950) is an American politician who served as general counsel of the U.S. Department of Commerce. He is the younger brother and political confidant of John Forbes Kerry, former Massachusetts Senator, 2004 presidential nominee, and former U.S. Secretary of State.\n\nKerry was appointed Acting United States Secretary of Commerce on June 1, 2013, and resumed his position as general counsel on June 26, 2013, when Penny Pritzker was sworn in as the 38th Secretary of Commerce. As the General Counsel of the Department of Commerce, Kerry was the principal legal advisor to the Secretary of Commerce and third ranking secretarial officer. He resigned his position on September 4, 2013.\n\nCameron Forbes Kerry was born on September 6, 1950 in Washington, D.C.. He is the fourth child of U.S. diplomat Richard John Kerry and Rosemary Isabel Forbes of the Forbes family and Dudley–Winthrop family. He graduated from Harvard College in 1972, and Boston College Law School in 1978.\n\nAfter graduation from law school, Kerry was an associate with Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr in Washington, D.C. and served as law clerk to U.S. Senior Circuit Judge Elbert Tuttle, former Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (now the Eleventh Circuit). He has been an Adjunct Professor of Telecommunications Law at Suffolk University Law School and has written on First Amendment and cable television issues. From 1983 to 2008, he worked as a partner at Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky, and Popeo, focusing on civil litigation, environmental issues, and communications regulation.\n\nIn 1983, Cameron Kerry converted from Roman Catholicism to Judaism before marrying Kathy Weinman. Cameron Kerry traveled across the country speaking to his brother's views on Israel, campaigning with Harvard Law School professor Alan Dershowitz, writer-comedian Larry David, and Jewish elected officials.\n\nIn 2004, Cameron Kerry served as an influential advisor in his brother's presidential campaign. Kerry played a role in decisions behind the scenes and as a campaign surrogate.\n\nIn 2006, Cameron Kerry explored a run for Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth but decided not to run when the Democratic incumbent William F. Galvin announced that he would seek re-election.\n\nDuring the 2008 Presidential campaign, he was the Vice-Chair of the National Jewish Democratic Council and defended Barack Obama in the Jewish press.\n\nOn April 20, 2009, President Obama nominated him, and on May 21, 2009, he was confirmed unanimously by the United States Senate as the General Counsel of the Department of Commerce. In this role, Kerry was the principal legal advisor to the Secretary of Commerce and third ranking secretarial officer. He served as the department's chief legal officer and oversees the work of over 325 lawyers in 14 offices. Kerry also serves as the department's chief ethics officer, and co-chairs the secretary's Internet Policy Task Force, which brings together Commerce agencies with expertise on the internet in the 21st-century global economy. \n"}
{"id": "808982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=808982", "title": "Capacity (law)", "text": "Capacity (law)\n\nThe capacity of natural and juridical persons (legal persons) in general, determines whether they may make binding amendments to their rights, duties and obligations, such as getting married or merging, entering into contracts, making gifts, or writing a valid will. Capacity is an aspect of status and both are defined by a person's \"personal law\":\nWhen the law limits or bars a person from engaging in specified activities, any agreements or contracts to do so are either voidable or void for incapacity. Sometimes such legal incapacity is referred to as \"incompetence\". For comparison, see Competence (law).\n\nAs an aspect of the social contract between a state and its citizens, the state adopts a role of protector to the weaker and more vulnerable members of society. In public policy terms, this is the policy of \"parens patriae\". Similarly, the state has a direct social and economic interest in promoting trade, so it will define the forms of business enterprise that may operate within its territory, and lay down rules that will allow both the businesses and those that wish to contract with them a fair opportunity to gain value. This system worked well until social and commercial mobility increased. Now persons routinely trade and travel across state boundaries (both physically and electronically), so the need is to provide stability across state lines given that laws differ from one state to the next. Thus, once defined by the personal law, persons take their capacity with them like a passport whether or however they may travel. In this way, a person will not gain or lose capacity depending on the accident of the local laws, e.g. if A does not have capacity to marry her cousin under her personal law (a rule of consanguinity), she cannot evade that law by travelling to a state that does permit such a marriage (see nullity). In Saskatchewan Canada, an exception to this law allows married persons to become the common law spouse of other(s) prior to divorcing the first spouse. This law is not honored amongst other Canadian provinces.\n\nStandardized classes of person have had their freedom restricted. These limitations are exceptions to the general policy of freedom of contract and the detailed human and civil rights that a person of ordinary capacity might enjoy. Hence, for example, freedom of movement may be modified, the right to vote may be withdrawn, etc. As societies have developed more equal treatment based on gender, race and ethnicity, many of the older incapacities have been removed. For example, English law used to treat married women as lacking the capacity to own property or act independently of their husbands (the last of these rules was repealed by the Domicile and Matrimonial Proceedings Act 1973, which removed the wife's domicile of dependency for those marrying after 1974, so that a husband and wife could have different domiciles).\n\nThe definition of an \"infant\" or \"minor\" varies, each state reflecting local culture and prejudices in defining the age of majority, marriageable age, voting age, etc. In many jurisdictions, legal contracts, in which (at least) one of the contracting parties is a minor, are voidable by the minor. For a minor to undergo medical procedure, consent is determined by the minor's parent(s) or legal guardian(s). The right to vote in the United States is currently set at 18 years, while the right to buy and consume alcohol is often set at 21 years by U.S. state law. Some laws, such as marriage laws, may differentiate between the sexes and allow women to marry younger. There are instances in which a person may be able to gain capacity earlier than the prescribed time through a process of emancipation. Conversely, many states allow the inexperience of childhood to be an excusing condition to criminal liability and set the age of criminal responsibility to match the local experience of emerging behavioral problems (see \"doli incapax\"). For sexual crimes, the age of consent determines the potential liability of adult accused.\n\nAs an example of liability in contract, the law in most of Canada provides that an infant is not bound by the contracts he or she enters into except for the purchase of necessaries and for beneficial contracts of service. Infants must pay fair price only for necessary goods and services. However, the British Columbia \"Infants Act\" (RSBC 1996 c.223) declares all contracts, including necessities and beneficial contracts of service, are unenforceable against an infant. Only student loans and other contracts made specifically enforceable by statute will be binding on infants in that province.\n\nIn contracts between an adult and an infant, adults are bound but infants may escape contracts at their option (i.e. the contract is voidable). Infants may ratify a contract on reaching age of majority. In the case of executed contracts, when the infant has obtained some benefit under the contract, he/she cannot avoid obligations unless what was obtained was of no value. Upon repudiation of a contract, either party can apply to the court. The court may order restitution, damages, or discharge the contract. All contracts involving the transfer of real estate are considered valid until ruled otherwise.\n\nA minor (typically under 18) can disaffirm a contract made, no matter the case. However, the entire contract must be disaffirmed. Depending on the jurisdiction, the minor may be required to return any of the goods still in his possession. Also, barter transactions such as purchasing a retail item in exchange for a cash payment are generally recognized through a legal fiction not to be contracts due to the absence of promises of future action. A minor may not disavow such a trade.\nGenerally, the courts base their determination on whether the minor, after reaching the age of majority, has had ample opportunity to consider the nature of the contractual obligations he or she entered into as a minor and the extent to which the adult party to the contract has performed.\nAs one court put it, \"the purpose of the infancy doctrine is to protect 'minors from foolishly squandering their wealth through improvident contracts with crafty adults who would take advantage of them in the marketplace.'\"\n\nIndividuals may have an inherent physical condition which prevents them from achieving the normal levels of performance expected from persons of comparable age, or their inability to match current levels of performance may be caused by contracting an illness. Whatever the cause, if the resulting condition is such that individuals cannot care for themselves, or may act in ways that are against their interests, those persons are vulnerable through dependency and require the protection of the state against the risks of abuse or exploitation. Hence, any agreements that were made are voidable, and a court may declare that person a ward of the state and grant power of attorney to an appointed legal guardian.\n\nIn England and Wales, this is a specific function of the Court of Protection, and all matters concerning persons who have lost, or expect soon to lose, mental capacity are regulated under the Mental Capacity Act 2005. This makes provision for lasting powers of attorney under which decisions about the health, welfare and financial assets of a person who has lost capacity may be dealt with in that person's interests.\n\nIn Ireland the Assisted Decision-Making (Capacity) Act was passed in 2015. This Act addresses the capacity of people with intellectual disabilities. The general principles are set out in section 8 of the Act.\n\nThis sort of problem sometimes arises when people suffer some form of medical problem such as unconsciousness, coma, extensive paralysis, or delirious states, from accidents or illnesses such as strokes, or often when older people become afflicted with some form of medical/mental disability such as Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Lewy body disease, or similar dementia. Such persons are often unable to consent to medical treatment and otherwise handle their financial and other personal matters. If the afflicted person has prepared documents beforehand about what to do in such cases, often in a revocable living trust or related documents, then the named legal guardian may be able to take over their financial and other affairs. If the afflicted person owns his/her property jointly with a spouse or other able person, the able person may be able to take over many of the routine financial affairs. Otherwise, it is often necessary to petition a court, such as a probate court, that the afflicted person lacks legal capacity and allow a legal guardian to take over their financial and personal affairs. Procedures and court review have been established, dependent on the area of jurisdiction, to prevent exploitation of the incapacitated person by the guardian. The guardian periodically provides a financial accounting for court review.\n\nIn the Criminal Law, the traditional common law M'Naghten Rules excused all persons from liability if they did not understand what they were doing or, if they did, that they did not know it was wrong. The consequences of this excuse were that those accused were detained indefinitely or until the medical authorities certified that it was safe to release them back into the community. This consequence was felt to be too draconian and so statutes have introduced new defenses that will limit or reduce the liability of those accused of committing offenses if they were suffering from a mental illness at the relevant time (see the insanity and mental disorder defenses).\n\nAlthough individuals may have consumed a sufficient quantity of intoxicant or drug to reduce or eliminate their ability to understand exactly what they are doing, such conditions are self-induced and so the law does not generally allow any defense or excuse to be raised to any actions taken while incapacitated. The most generous states do permit individuals to repudiate agreements as soon as sober, but the conditions to exercising this right are strict.\n\nIf individuals find themselves in a situation where they can no longer pay their debts, they lose their status as credit-worthy and become bankrupt. States differ on the means whereby their outstanding liabilities can be treated as discharged and on the precise extent of the limits that are placed on their capacities during this time but, after discharge, they are returned to full capacity. In the United States, some states have spendthrift laws under which an irresponsible spender may be deemed to lack capacity to enter into contracts (in Europe, these are termed prodigality laws) and both sets of laws may be denied extraterritorial effect under public policy as imposing a potentially penal status on the individuals affected.\n\nDuring times of war or civil strife, a state will limit the ability of its citizens to offer help or assistance in any form to those who are acting against the interests of the state. Hence, all commercial and other contracts with the \"enemy\", including terrorists, would be considered void or suspended until a cessation of hostilities is agreed.\n\nThe extent of an artificial person's capacity depends on the law of the place of incorporation and the enabling provisions included in the constitutive documents of incorporation. The general rule is that anything not included in the corporation's capacity, whether expressly or by implication, is \"ultra vires\", i.e. \"beyond the power\" of the corporation, and so may be unenforceable by the corporation, but the rights and interests of innocent third parties dealing with the corporations are usually protected.\nThere is a clear division between the approach of states to the definition of partnerships. One group of states treats general and limited partnerships as aggregate. In terms of capacity, this means that they are no more than the sum of the natural persons who conduct the business. The other group of states allows partnerships to have a separate legal personality which changes the capacity of the \"firm\" and those who conduct its business and makes such partnerships more like corporations.\nIn some states, trade unions have limited capacity unless any contract made relates to union activities.\nWhen a business entity becomes insolvent, an administrator, receiver, or other similar legal functionary may be appointed to determine whether the entity shall continue to trade or be sold so that the creditors may receive all or a proportion of the money owing to them. During this time, the capacity of the entity is limited so that its liabilities are not increased unreasonably and to the detriment of the existing creditors.\n\n"}
{"id": "36871619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36871619", "title": "Cemented carbide drawing die", "text": "Cemented carbide drawing die\n\nCemented carbide as a tool material has been increasingly used for cutting tools, wear-resistant tools, impact-resistant tools, and other products with special purpose. Cemented carbide was first used in stretching mold area and has gone through cast iron mold, alloy steel mold, diamond dies, cemented carbide dies, polycrystalline module die and other developmental stages. With the property of high wear resistance, good polishing performance, low friction coefficient, etc., cemented carbide drawing die has been a substitute of steel mold which is used to stretching steel and non-ferrous metal.\n\nCemented carbide was first invented by Bavarians to make wire drawing dies. In other words, wire drawing die is the direct incentive of the appearance of cemented carbide.\n\nIn 1950s, cemented carbide industry grew up in China. Since then, cemented carbide drawing die has been gradually gaining popularity in China. Currently, WC-Co cemented carbide is widely used in China, Japan, Sweden, Italy, etc. In some other counties, rare metal carbides (such as TiC, TaC, NBC, etc.) are added into cemented carbide drawing dies and its manufacturing process is also certainly different.\n\nIn China, the Cobalt content in cemented carbide drawing die is basically the same as that in the Soviet Union. The traditional grade for cemented carbide drawing dies in China is almost YG8, rarely YG15 and YG6X. Later, in order to obtain better wearing resistance, the Cobalt content has to be decreased. While with the decreasing of the Cobalt content, the impact toughness and flexural strength of the cemented carbide drawing die will dramatically decline. In recent years, the Cobalt content adopted in cemented carbide drawing die area in China is the same as that in Sweden Sandvik Umparg which is the leader of cemented carbide industry in the world. At the same time, researchers are trying to improve the performance of cemented carbide by adding rare metal carbides. For example, researchers in Tianjin Cemented Carbide Research Institute add 1% TaC into cemented carbide drawing dies to inhibit grain growth and refine grain size in the sintering process. In result, the service life of this kind of drawing dies is greatly longer than the general grade YG8. In Shanghai Material Factory, the Cobalt content is declined to 6% and a few TaC are added into cemented carbide drawing dies in the sintering process so that the production volume is two times of that of general grade when stretching A3 steel, YIF steel, copper, etc.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27272457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27272457", "title": "Christopher Mattheisen", "text": "Christopher Mattheisen\n\nChristopher Mattheisen (born 1961) is an American businessman, economist, best known as the CEO of Hungarian telecommunications company Magyar Telekom from 2006 to 2018. \n\nMattheisen graduated in history at Indiana University, Bloomington (1979–1983) and economics at Columbia University, New York (1986–1988). In 1990 he came to Hungary where he started a consulting company for business analysis and strategic planning. In 1993 he was the founding marketing and sales director of T-Mobile Hungary (formerly Westel 900). He moved on to Poland in 1996 to participate in launching the mobile operator Era GSM for US West International as Director of Marketing, Sales and Strategy. From 1997 he headed in London the marketing and sales activities of US West’s (later MediaOne) European mobile subsidiaries, then from 1999 he worked at BT Cellnet as Business Marketing and Sales Director. In September 2002 he was appointed of Magyar Telekom’s Chief Officer heading the Residential Services business unit and member of the Management Committee. From January 2005 to June 2006 he was Chief Officer responsible for the Wireline Services business unit (T-Com, including the residential, Internet and network divisions). On December 5, 2006 he was appointed CEO of the company as successor of Elek Straub, and on December 21 elected member and Chairman of the Board of Directors. Under his leadership, Magyar Telekom won a string of professional awards such as Business Ethics Award (1997), Best Employer in Hungary (2009) and in Central and Eastern Europe (2010), and an international Innovation Award (2010).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3733092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3733092", "title": "Design leadership", "text": "Design leadership\n\nDesign leadership is a concept complementary to design management. In practice, design managers within companies often operate in the field of design leadership and design leaders in the field of design management. However, the two terms are not interchangeable, they are interdependent. In essence, and at the highest level, design leadership helps to define the future and design management provides key tools for getting there. Both are critically important to business, government and society, and both are necessary in order to maximise value from design activity and investment.\n\nDesign leadership can be described as leadership that generates innovative design solutions. Turner defines design leadership by adding three additional aspects for design leadership,\n\nTurner separates the core responsibilities of design leadership in following six activities:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42767085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42767085", "title": "Donald Brydon", "text": "Donald Brydon\n\nDonald Hood Brydon (born 1945) is a British businessman who is Chairman of the London Stock Exchange Group and the Sage Group.\n\nHe was previously Chairman of Royal Mail, Smiths Group, the London Metal Exchange, Amersham plc, Taylor Nelson Sofres, ifs School of Finance, the Medical Research Council and EveryChild and a Director of Allied Domecq and Scottish Power.\n\nBrydon went to George Watson's College, before studying at the University of Edinburgh and graduating in Mathematical Science in 1967. During this time he was chairman of the University's Conservative Association alongside his fellow Watsonian Malcolm Rifkind, who was secretary. He was also elected President of Edinburgh University Union. Brydon remained in Edinburgh to teach at the University for several years after graduation.\n\nIn 1977 Brydon began a 20-year career working at Barclays, during which time he became Chairman and Chief Executive of the company's investment arm, BZW Investment Management. From 1997 to 2002 Brydon was Chief Executive Officer at AXA Investment Managers SA. In 2004 Brydon was awarded a CBE for services to the financial industry.\n\nAs Chairman of the Royal Mail, Brydon was paid an annual salary £200,000, working two days a week. Whilst in office for a period of six years Brydon oversaw the controversial privatisation of the 499-year-old institution. \n\nHe resigned from the Royal Mail Group in 2015 to become Chairman of the London Stock Exchange Group.\n"}
{"id": "34619638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34619638", "title": "Edward Elworthy", "text": "Edward Elworthy\n\nEdward Elworthy (1836–22 January 1899) was a New Zealand farmer and businessman.\n\nElworthy was born in Wellington, Somerset, England, in 1836. He moved to Toowoomba, Australia, in 1860, then to the Timaru area of New Zealand in 1864. He bought a sheep run called Pareora, which came to be known as Holme station. He expanded his land holdings and by 1892 he and his family were the biggest land holders in South Canterbury. After his death on 22 January 1899, the land was divided among his three sons, Arthur, Herbert and Percy. Herbert was the father of Sir Peter Elworthy and Jonathan Elworthy; Percy was the father of Charles, Baron Elworthy.\n"}
{"id": "1486265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1486265", "title": "Elevator consultant", "text": "Elevator consultant\n\nAn elevator consultant is someone who specializes in the design, testing and maintenance inspection of elevators, escalators, moving walkways and many other conveyances that move people. They are not to be confused with elevator mechanics. Consultants (unlike mechanics) do not normally perform work on conveyances. Some elevator consultants may also work as private elevator inspectors. Some jurisdictions may accept independent third party inspectors for certified inspections while others may employ their own inspectors.\n\nElevator consultants work for property owners, developers, building tenants, architects, engineers, municipal code enforcement bodies and insurance companies for the following purposes:\n\nElevator Consultants can be a helpful resource to those who are involved in the design of new buildings and the management of existing buildings. An Elevator Consultant will typically not perform work on a conveyance in order to ensure their independence. In some instances, they may be authorized to address serious hazards as part of their ethical responsibility to the public by removing a conveyance from service, until potential dangers can be addressed.\n\nThere are no specific university programs to train an Elevator Consultant, although many are trained in mechanical and electrical engineering. Many Elevator consultants are former employees of major manufacturers, but may have limited technical background in the design and construction of buildings. Elevator consultants most frequently gain skills through experience in a variety of conveyance-related work. A qualified Elevator Consultant should have specific experience in elevator construction and modernization, familiarity with model codes and standards, and familiarity with local building codes, laws and regulations. Some elevator consultants may also perform certified inspections, after qualifying and obtaining QEI-1 credentials in the States or Provinces where independent inspectors are authorized. (see elevator inspector)\n\nAlthough some elevator consultants may be certified as QEI Inspectors, verifying qualifications of a consultant can be difficult. One organization called the International Association of Elevator Consultants, (IAEC) sets standards for experience and certification of independence, in order to become a member, which is intended to minimize concerns with the consultant's qualifications.\n\nIAEC has recently made available a special certification, the Qualified Elevator Consultant, (QEC). There are currently 10 QECs in the world. Included in this list are representatives from the USA, Canada, and India. Requirements for attaining QEC certification are found in the IAEC bylaws and include, among other things, ten years of verifiable elevator consulting experience and extensive industry involvement.\n\nSome elevator manufacturers may also employ trained staff in technical sales and support engineering departments to assist in the design of elevator and escalator systems. Elevator consultants however, are generally employed as independent contractors by architects, engineers or directly by property owners for large scale building projects involving multiple technical disciplines. A design team for a major building project will often require a specific technical design experience by professional consultants, such as a kitchen consultant, lighting consultant, audio-visual consultant, landscape architect, and/or am elevator consultant to supplement the technical work of the architect and engineer. It is expected by the Owner that these design teams will avoid using consultants that represent a specific manufacturer to minimize the potential, or even the appearance of a conflict of interest.\n\nThe demands of the real estate business have promoted the growth of the elevator consulting field, largely because one of the most expensive parts of the elevator is the space taken in the building. Careful design of the elevator system can both minimize the cost of elevators and improve the efficiency of the building. Elevators and escalators can add a substantial initial and long term investment to a building. A qualified independent elevator consultant is common in large campus type environments such as colleges, hotel chains and malls where standardization of materials and methods is desirable.\n\nIn general, elevator and escalator inspectors in the US and Canada are required to carry a current Qualified Elevator Inspector's (QEI) certification. In some jurisdictions, equivalent certification may be offered through State or Provincial authorities; however the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) requires QEI certification as the sole standard for proof of qualification (See: ASME A17.1 Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators). Increasingly, US States are using authorized independent inspectors to perform periodic inspections, witnessing annual tests that in the past would have been the work of State employees. In many States, a list of qualified competitive inspection companies are made available to private property owners to select from.\n\nQEI Certification is available from one of three organizations approved by the ASME. Qualification to obtain QEI certification includes extensive previous experience in the field of elevators (and other conveyances), experience working as an inspector and passing a comprehensive written examination. An application is available from the National Association of Elevator Safety Authorities, maintaining current certification that includes meeting standards for continuing education, required to be renewed annually. The qualifications for QEI Inspectors and QEIS (inspector supervisors) and Certifying Organizations and performance standards for inspectors can be found in the ASME standard QEI-1 Standard for the Qualification of Elevators and Inspectors. Inspectors are required by the ASME standards to avoid situations that are considered unethical, such as conflicts of interest that include performing or witnessing inspections and test on conveyances that they or their employer have financial interest in. Inspections are performed using the ASME A17.2 Guide for Inspection of Elevators, Escalators and Moving Walks as well as other relevant reference standards and local building codes. In most cases, inspectors are required to verify that conveyances meet the standards that they were originally installed under, however some jurisdictions may require conveyances that meet more current standards, including US federal authorities that often require conveyances meeting the minimum standards of the ASME A17.3 Safety Code for Existing Elevators and Escalators. Additionally, all conveyances are required to meet current safety standards for maintenance and inspection regardless of the date of original installation.\n\nASME A17.1 Appendix N lists the recommended frequency for conveyance inspections and tests. Each Authority Having Jurisdiction has authority to determine the frequency for inspection in their jurisdiction. However, the International Code Council, the most commonly adopted national standard for building codes in the US, adopts the recommended frequency of Appendix N in its entirety. In general, a QEI certified elevator inspector is required to perform a periodic inspection on passenger and freight elevators and escalators every six months. Additionally, each conveyance is required to have a series of safety tests completed annually by qualified elevator maintenance personnel (as defined by ASME A17.1). This test is required to be witnessed by a QEI inspector that does not have a personal financial interest in, or be employed by someone that has a financial interest in the results of the test. (This would be considered an unethical conflict of interest) In summary, most elevators, escalators, platform lifts and other conveyances that are permitted to carry people, are required to have two periodic inspections and one annual test each year. Additionally, all new and renovated elevators require an acceptance inspection and test to verify that any new or substantially modernized equipment conforms to the latest codes and standards.\n\nElevator Inspection Companies are Independent Contractors that are required to be authorized by the local, State or national authority having jurisdiction. (According to ASME A17.1) Standards for being approved for authorization generally include verification of independence, current certification and appropriate liability insurance. In most Jurisdictions that use independent inspectors, the authority having jurisdiction authorizes multiple inspection companies to avoid concerns with anti-trust lawsuits (see: Professional Ambulance Service, Inc. v. Abramowitz, 328 N.Y.S.2d 467). To protect the interests of the public, authorities are responsible to verify that an inspection company maintains current QEI certification for inspectors (as applicable), provides proper safety equipment to employees, carrying general liability, errors and omissions insurance prior to authorization.\n\nViolations of elevator, escalator and other conveyance safety codes may involve civil damages to property owners, and may include liability claims if those violations include personal injuries. Property Owners may incur additional liability, including civil and criminal penalties if it can be proven that they failed to properly maintain and/or meet the State or Provincial requirements for inspections of their conveyances, particularly if those claims are made that indicate negligence.\n\nVerification by Users of Conveyances of proof of current inspection is generally the right of the public. Certification processes vary widely across jurisdictions, but in general, the riding public has a right to demand proof that a conveyance available to the public has met the Jurisdiction's standards for current inspections. In States enforcing the ICC International Property Maintenance Code, that right is explicitly stated in section 606.1. Recent attempts to make those certifications more easily accessible to the public were blocked by building owner associations, however the property maintenance code is unambiguous about the right of the riding public to verify current certifications are maintained.\n\n"}
{"id": "3359565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3359565", "title": "Eli Elezra", "text": "Eli Elezra\n\nEliahu Ilan Elezra (; born November 24, 1960 in Jerusalem) is an Israeli professional poker player and businessman, now living in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nSince moving to America, Elezra has had numerous money finishes in the World Series of Poker (WSOP) in Omaha, Texas Hold 'em and Draw events. In July 2004, Elezra won the World Poker Tour $10,000 no limit hold'em event at the 2004 Mirage Poker Showdown, where he won $1,024,574. Elezra has played in \"The Big Game\" in Vegas for many years. He appeared in the second and third seasons of the Poker Superstars Invitational Tournament. He played in seasons 1-6 of GSN series \"High Stakes Poker\". In 2009, he appeared on several episodes of \"Poker After Dark\".\n\nElezra won his first bracelet by winning the World Championship Seven Card Stud Hi-Low in the 2007 World Series of Poker after defeating Scotty Nguyen heads-up. Before the event Elezra had made a side bet with Barry Greenstein laying 10:1 odds that he would win a World Series bracelet in 2007. He bet $25,000 and collected $250,000, resulting in more money than the first place prize in the event that he won.\n\nAs of 2012, his total live tournament winnings exceed $2,100,000. His 25 cashes at the WSOP account for $692,290 of those winnings.\n\nHe became a Full Tilt Pro and had his own H.O.R.S.E table.\n\nElezra released a long-awaited biography about his life and career in poker in March 2017 entitled \"Poker Legend\". The book was co-written by professional Israeli poker players Matan Krakow and Yoav Ronal and is currently available only in Hebrew, with an English-language version set for release by the end of the year.\n\n"}
{"id": "48223679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48223679", "title": "Elinor Morgenthau", "text": "Elinor Morgenthau\n\nElinor Morgenthau (February 19, 1892 – September 21, 1949) was an American Democratic party activist, member of the Lehman family, and spouse of Henry Morgenthau, Jr..\n\nBorn to a Jewish family in New York City, the daughter of Lisette \"Settie\" (née Lehman) and Morris Fatman, a clothing manufacturer. Her granddfather was Mayer Lehman, a co-founder of Lehman Brothers. She had one older sister, Eleanor. She attended the Jacobi School for girls and then graduated from Vassar College with a degree in theater in 1913. After school, she taught acting at the Henry Street Settlement where she met her future husband Henry Morgenthau, Jr., the son of ambassador Henry Morgenthau, Sr. They married in 1915 and settled in Dutchess County, New York where her husband became involved in local politics and operated a farm which they named Fishkill Farms. Morgenthau also became active in politics and served as the speaker for the state Democratic Committee Women’s Division.\n\nIn 1916, she and her husband became close friends with Eleanor and Franklin D. Roosevelt; like the Morgenthaus, the Roosevelts were active Democrats in predominantly Republican Dutchess County. The Morgenthaus actively campaigned for FDR thereafter and after Roosevelt was elected president, her husband was appointed as Secretary of Treasury in 1934. The Morgenthaus were the only Jewish family that the Roosevelts were intimate and Eleanor Roosevelt resigned from the New York Colony Club in protest of the club's refusal to admit her friend. In 1941, Elinor Morgenthau became Eleanor Roosevelt’s assistant in the Office of Civilian Defense. As a close personal friend of Eleanor Roosevelt, Morgenthau was influential in convincing the president to take a more active roll in supporting World War II refugees through the creation of the War Refugee Board.\n\nAlthough Jewish by descent, the Morgenthaus were not religious. They celebrated both Christmas and Easter and they avoided purely Jewish social networks. The couple had three children: television producer Henry Morgenthau III; New York District attorney Robert Morgenthau, and physician Joan Morgenthau Hirschhorn. They had homes in New York City and at their farm in Dutchess County, New York. Morgenthau died of a stroke in New York on September 21, 1949.\n"}
{"id": "11521591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11521591", "title": "Farzad Nazem", "text": "Farzad Nazem\n\nFarzad Nazem () (born 1961), also known as Zod Nazem, was Yahoo!'s chief technology officer and one of its longest-serving executives. On May 30, 2007, at age 46, he announced that he would retire and leave Yahoo! in June of that year. Since retirement, Nazem has spent most of his time on investments, philanthropy, and professional mentoring of young entrepreneurs in the technology field.\n\nNazem began working at the young age of 13 and paid his way through college. At the age of 19, he graduated with a B.S. degree in Computer Science with highest honors from the California Polytechnic State University. Upon graduation, he was recruited by Rolm Corporation, a revolutionary technology company of the time.\n\nNazem started his technical career in the VLCBX Division at Rolm Corporation, producing large, computer-based telephone switches. He was soon recruited to join Sydis Inc., a spin-off of Rolm, as a senior engineer. Sydis was positioning itself to become the leading provider of hybrid telephony and computer platform of the early 1980s. \n\nIn 1985, Nazem joined Oracle Corporation, what was then a small pre-IPO company. He spent a little over 10 years at Oracle working closely with its CEO, Larry Ellison, on strategic projects like the creation of the “Information Super Highway.” This effort of the early 1990s was meant to bring information and entertainment to consumers’ homes by providing the software platforms for Video Serving and other services to Telcos. By the time Nazem left Oracle, the company had grown from 350 to around 35,000 employees. \n\nWhen Nazem was recruited by Yahoo! in 1996, the company was less than a year old and had yet to go public. At the time, Lycos, Infoseek and Excite were considered established and more popular internet search engines while Yahoo! was better described as an internet directory. Nazem was brought to Yahoo! to build the engineering organization, take over site operation, and complete the executive team in preparation for the company’s public debut. \n\nUnder Nazem, Yahoo! became an internet giant. Nazem led several initiatives that helped Yahoo! grow rapidly and distinguish itself from competitors including a very scalable infrastructure composed of farms of small generic servers with a free operating system (FreeBSD). The cost effectiveness and the scalability translated to a more reliable user experience while having the highest profit margins in the industry. In 1997, Yahoo! entered the crowded email market and quickly added hundreds of millions of users, becoming the most popular mail server. Additionally, through all the innovations, Yahoo! became a web portal and originator of the personalized web experience, My Yahoo. \n\nThroughout Yahoo!’s surge, Nazem spearheaded over 50 company acquisitions, which helped in building out the different services offered by Yahoo!. Almost all of the acquisitions were technology companies and he was in charge of the integration of the people and the services. \n\nBecause of its dedication to innovation and Nazem’s strong and effective leadership, Yahoo! was one of three companies (the other two being Ebay and Amazon.com) that survived the internet bubble burst of 2000 and 2001. Collectively these companies were dubbed the “3 horsemen of the Internet.” Particularly significant, Nazem was the only remaining executive from the first phase who remained through the burst and into the second phase of Yahoo!’s growth. As such, he provided stability and continuity and set the groundwork for continual innovation. \n\nBy the time he retired in 2007, Nazem had grown Yahoo!’s engineering team from 6 to 6000 engineers. Additionally, he was credited with establishing a new norm of omnipresent service and the first website to serve hundreds of millions of users without downtime. When Zod retired from the company in 2007, Yahoo! had 690 million visitors on a monthly basis and employed 12,000 people.\n\nUpon his retirement from day to day operations at Yahoo!, Nazem released an official statement on Yahoo’s corporate blog, Yodel Anecdotal. In this statement, he wrote “After spending the last 26 years in this fast-paced technology industry, I’ve finally decided it's time to slow down. I'll be retiring in early June. After joining tiny little start-ups like Oracle and then Yahoo!, I never imagined things would take off the way they have. And looking back on my eleven years here at Yahoo!, I’m amazed at all that this company has accomplished. Yahoo! has played such a significant role in building the Internet into what it is today and I’m incredibly proud to have been a part of such a talented team.” \n\nNazem’s dedication to Yahoo and the technical community, as well as his influence and impact, continued long after his retirement. While at Yahoo!, Nazem mentored many Yahoo! alumni who have gone on to found, lead, and invest in numerous companies. Now, Nazem spends his time coaching entrepreneurs on technical architecture, market strategy, fundraising, talent development, and mergers and acquisitions. Since 2010, he has invested in more than 60 technology-driven companies in the areas of big data, cloud, health, and medical. His investments have yielded several successful exits, including acquisitions by Google, Yahoo!, Apigee, Twitter, and Cisco.\n\nIn 2003, Nazem and his wife, Noosheen Hashemi, co-founded a private family foundation, The HAND Foundation. He serves on its board of directors. \n\nNazem is also on the Board of Trustees of The Nueva School.\n\nNotorious for avoiding acclaim, Nazem has always stayed in the background and chosen to be low-profile. Nazem, his wife and two children live in the San Francisco Bay Area.\n\nNazem currently holds five patents in the area of information technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "21021578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21021578", "title": "Hemming Park", "text": "Hemming Park\n\nHemming Park is a public park, located in the heart of the government center in downtown Jacksonville, Florida. Originally a village green, it was the first and is the oldest park in the city.\n\nThe area was established as a public square in 1857 by Isaiah Hart, founder of Jacksonville. After Hart's death in 1861 and the end of the Civil War, the Hart family deeded the land to the city for $10. It was first known as \"City Park\", then \"St. James Park\" after the grand St. James Hotel was constructed across the street in 1869. The following year, another major hotel was built across from the park.\n\nThe area was renamed Hemming Park in 1899 in honor of Civil War veteran Charles C. Hemming, after he installed a -tall Confederate monument in the park in 1898. Hemming was born in Jacksonville. He later moved to Colorado Springs, Colorado and became a banker, making a fortune. The memorial is the oldest in the city and was the tallest at the time.\n\nThe Great Fire of 1901 destroyed most of the wooden structures in Jacksonville and many others, too. Hemming's Confederate monument was one of the few structures to survive the fire. The St. James Hotel burned to the ground and the owner did not have the cash to rebuild. In 1910, Jacob and Morris Cohen, who owned a local dry goods company, engaged 34-year-old architect, Henry John Klutho to fast track design and manage the construction of a four-story building to house their store. The name \"St. James Building\" stuck to the property and the building.\n\nDuring the 1960 presidential campaign, John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon both gave speeches at Hemming Park a few hours apart on October 18. President Lyndon B. Johnson delivered a speech in Hemming Park on October 26, 1964.\nBecause of its high visibility and patronage, the park and surrounding stores were the site of numerous civil rights demonstrations in the 1960s in the African-American effort to end racial segregation in public facilities. At the time, the city's population was about 45% black. Rutledge Pearson, a local high school teacher, and the NAACP organized many students to participate in sit-ins. Rodney Hurst was the president at age 16 of the NAACP youth council and years later, said the students were determined to carry out the protests to gain rights of service in stores that gladly accepted .\n\nPearson and members of the NAACP had met with the city's mayor to ask for his support in integration but were rejected. The sit-ins began on August 13, 1960: students asked to be served at the segregated lunch counters at Morrison's Cafeteria, Woolworths, and other stores, where the black community spent much money in retail purchases. They were denied service and frequently kicked, spit at, and addressed with racial slurs. This pattern continued for two weeks, until the 27th, a day now referred to as Ax Handle Saturday. On that day, a group of 200 \"middle-age and elderly white men,\" including some members of the Ku Klux Klan, were arming themselves with axe handles and baseball bats. The student protesters were warned but each wanted to go ahead. The armed group entered the store where they started attacking the students. Some of these found sanctuary in Historic Snyder Memorial, then a Methodist church. A couple of youths alerted the \"Boomerangs,\" a group of older black youth, who entered the fray to protect the demonstrators.\nAlthough the organizers had alerted the police when they saw armed men, law enforcement did not intervene until the Boomerangs and other blacks started fighting back to stop the beatings. Fifty people were injured and 62 were arrested, 14 whites and 48 blacks. The day's events were covered by national TV, as well as major newspapers such as the \"New York Times\" and \"Los Angeles Times\". Alton Yates, participated as a 24-year-old, but said some of the protesters were as young as 13, and he was shocked to see men beating children. He said the organizers gathered their forces again and continued sit-ins. In addition, committees of blacks and whites met to discuss and resolve racial issues. In April 1961, two leaders of the NAACP Youth Council ate at Woolworth's for a week to prepare the public for integration.\n\nFinally after the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the city completed integration of water fountains, restrooms, and dressing rooms. On August 26, 2000, the NAACP, the National Conference for Community and Justice, the Jacksonville Historical Society, the Human Rights Commission, and the Jacksonville Urban League hosted events to commemorate the history and celebrate the city's progress in the 40 years since then.\n\nThe Downtown Development Authority (DDA) was created in 1970 to reverse white flight, related to suburbanization and development of retail malls, and end urban blight. They hired RTKL Associates Inc., planning consultants from Baltimore, Maryland to study Jacksonville's situation. Their recommendations were incorporated into the \"1971 Downtown Master Plan\", using the idea of creating a Pedestrian mall surrounded by a transportation loop and abundant free parking. Another plan component was a group of elevated walkways that would permit shoppers to avoid traffic while moving from the retail core to the riverfront, which would contain a park, convention center including hotel, an exhibition center, Sears Department Store, and a high-rise containing financial offices. The plan was supposed to be completed within 20 years, but many components were never implemented.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, the image of the park had changed. Because the downtown had been invaded by thousands of starlings, the city had removed shade trees to drive the invaders from the park. The City renovated the park in 1977 at a cost of $648,000, converting it into a concrete/brick-paved square and changing the name to Hemming Plaza.\n\nThe second phase of city redevelopment was budgeted at $2.2 million, but was delayed in 1979. The money was used to construct a University Boulevard overpass of the rail yard adjacent to Philips Highway. Money was again budgeted in 1981, but was used instead to widen 103rd Street. In 1984, the project began, and lasted over two years.\n\nBy this time, the city's big retailers had already built new stores at the malls to meet suburban demand. The last three major stores closed their downtown locations. The empty storefronts attracted the homeless and the 1971 master plan became irrelevant.\n\nThe Federal Government spent $84 million for the John Milton Bryan Simpson United States Courthouse, which broke ground in 2000 and opened in 2003, across from the Plaza. Over $162 million was invested by the city in the buildings surrounding Hemming Plaza, including:\n\nA life-size cast bronze statue of the late U.S. Rep. Charles Edward Bennett, who served Northeast Florida in Congress for 44 years, was installed on a granite base in Hemming Plaza on April 23, 2004.\n\nIn September 2014, the city of Jacksonville entered into a public-private agreement with the nonprofit organization, Friends of Hemming Park, to manage the park. The organization is charged with revitalizing and programming the square. The 501(c)3 nonprofit organization was created by community leaders and members of The Cultural Council of Jacksonville, and Downtown Vision, Inc.\n\nThe first Wednesday of every month, Hemming Park is converted into the centerpiece of Jacksonville's Downtown Art Walk.\n\n"}
{"id": "2077842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2077842", "title": "Hong Kong Association of Banks", "text": "Hong Kong Association of Banks\n\nThe Hong Kong Association of Banks (HKAB; Chinese language:香港銀行公會 or 銀公會 in short) is an association created based on a series of Bank Ordinances enacted since 1948. In 1981 the association was established and replaced the Exchange Bank Association. The ordinance provides a framework for the Hong Kong Government to exchange views with the banking sector for the further development of the industry.\n\nAlthough banking licenses are granted by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, no fully licensed bank can operate in Hong Kong is thus subject to HKAB's rules. Its members are the banks, not their employees. HKAB is under the auspices of its member banks, which are represented by their designated representatives in general meetings. Each member bank must designate a senior executive to represent it vis-à-vis HKAB at meetings.\n"}
{"id": "40735777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40735777", "title": "IsaKidd refining technology", "text": "IsaKidd refining technology\n\nThe IsaKidd Technology is a copper electrorefining and electrowinning technology that was developed independently by Copper Refineries Proprietary Limited (“CRL”), a Townsville, Queensland subsidiary of MIM Holdings Limited (which is now part of the Glencore group of companies), and at the Falconbridge Limited (“Falconbridge”) now-dismantled Kidd Creek refinery that was at Timmins, Ontario. It is based around the use of reusable cathode starter sheets for copper electrorefining and the automated stripping of the deposited “cathode copper” from them.\n\nThe current IsaKidd technology represents the merger of the copper refining technologies developed by the two different organisations. The initial Isa Process development in the late 1970s, with its reusable stainless-steel cathode starter sheets, represented an advance on the previous technology of single-use starter sheets of pure copper, the production of which was a labour-intensive process.\n\nThe production of the single-use starter sheets involved laying down a sheet of copper by electrolysis on each side of a “mother plate”. Generating the sheet took a day, and thousands of sheets could be needed every day. Originally, the copper starter sheets were separated from the mother plate manually, but over time the process was automated. In addition, limitations associated with the use of copper starter sheets meant that it was difficult to meet the purity specifications of some new copper applications that were, in the 1970s and 1980s, demanding higher quality copper.\n\nThe development of the Isa Process tank house technology at CRL eliminated the whole process and cost of producing the starter sheets by using stainless-steel permanent cathodes. It also included substantial automation of the process of inserting the permanent cathodes into the electrolytic cells and their subsequent removal and stripping of the sheets of deposited cathode copper. The labour force required to operate a refinery using the IsaKidd technology has been estimated at 60–70% less of that required for refineries using starter sheets.\n\nMIM Holdings began marketing the Isa Process technology in 1980, as a result of demand from other refinery operators.\n\nFalconbridge subsequently independently developed a similar process to improve operations at its Kidd Creek copper refinery, near Timmins, Ontario. The initial development of permanent cathodes was for internal use, but marketing of the Kidd Process was initiated in 1992 after requests from other refinery operators.\n\nThe two technologies were brought together as the IsaKidd Technology in 2006, when Xstrata bought Falconbridge.\n\nThe IsaKidd Technology now dominates global copper refining. It has been licensed to 102 users and Xstrata Technology, which markets the technology, reports on its website a total installed capacity of some 12 million tonnes per year (“t/y”) of copper production, as of October 2011. This is about 60% of the estimated 2011 global refined copper production of 19.7 million tonnes.\n\nThe development of the IsaKidd technology allowed increased productivity, reduced operating costs and the production of consistent, high-quality cathode copper.\n\nThe process of electrorefining copper consists of placing a copper anode (about 99.5–99.7% pure copper) in sulfuric acid, together with a cathode, and passing a current between the anode and cathode through an external circuit. At the applied electropotential, copper and less noble elements dissolve in the electrolyte, while elements more noble than copper, such as gold and silver, do not. Under the influence of the applied electrical potential, copper ions migrate from the anode and deposit on the cathode, forming cathode copper.\n\nElectrolytic refining of copper was first patented in England by James Elkington in 1865 and the first electrolytic copper refinery was built in Newark, New Jersey, in 1883.\n\nThere were teething problems with the new technology. For example, the early refineries had trouble producing firm deposits on the cathodes. As a result, there was much secrecy between refinery operators as each strove to maintain a competitive edge.\n\nThe nature of the cathode used to collect the copper is a critical part of the technology. The properties of copper are highly susceptible to impurities. For example, an arsenic content of 0.1% can reduce the conductivity of copper by 23% and a bismuth content of just 0.001% makes copper brittle. The material used in the cathode must not contaminate the copper being deposited, or it will not meet the required specifications.\n\nThe current efficiency of the refining process depends, in part, on how close the anodes and cathodes can be placed in the electrolytic cell. This, in turn, depends on the straightness of both the anode and the cathode. Bumps and bends in either can lead to short-circuiting or otherwise affect the current distribution and also the quality of the cathode copper.\nPrior to the development of the Isa Process technology, the standard approach was to use a starter sheet of high-purity copper as the initial cathode. These starter sheets are produced in special electrolytic cells by electrodeposition of copper for 24 hours onto a plate made of copper coated with oil (or treated with other similar face-separation materials) or of titanium. Thousands of sheets could be needed every day, and the original method of separating the starter sheet from the “mother plate” (referred to as “stripping”) was entirely manual.\n\nStarter sheets are usually quite light. For example, the starter sheets used in the CRL refinery weighed 10 pounds (4.53 kilograms). Thus, they are thin and need to be handled carefully to avoid bending.\nOver time, the formation of starter sheets was improved by mechanisation, but there was still a high labour input.\n\nOnce the starter sheets were formed, they had to be flattened, to reduce the likelihood of short circuits, and then cut, formed and punched to make loops from which the starter sheets are hung from conductive copper hanger bars in the electrolytic cells (see Figure 1).\nThe starter sheets are inserted in the refining cells and dissolved copper deposits on them to produce the cathode copper product (see Figure 2). Because of the manufacturing cost of the starter sheets, refineries using them tend to keep them in the cells as long as possible, usually 12–14 days. On the other hand, the anodes normally reside in the cells for 24–28 days, meaning that there are two cathodes produced from each anode.\nThe starter sheets have a tendency to warp, due to the mechanical stresses they encounter and often need to be removed from the refining cells after about two days to be straightened in presses before being returned to the cells. The tendency to warp leads to frequent short-circuiting.\n\nDue to their limitations, it is difficult for copper produced on starter sheets to meet modern specifications for the highest-purity copper.\n\nThe development of the Isa Process tank house technology had its beginning in the zinc industry. During the mid-1970s, MIM Holdings Limited (“MIM”) was considering building a zinc refinery in Townsville to treat the zinc concentrate produced by its Mount Isa operations. As a result, MIM staff visited the zinc smelters using the best-practice technology and found that modern electrolytic zinc smelters had adopted permanent cathode plate and mechanised stripping technology.\n\nMIM recognised that the performance of traditional copper refineries was constrained by the poor cathode geometry inherent in using copper starter sheets.\n\nMIM then developed a research program aimed at developing similar permanent cathode technology for copper refining. CRL had been operating in Townsville since 1959, using conventional starter-sheet technology and treating blister copper produced in the Mount Isa Mines Limited copper smelter at Mount Isa in Queensland. CRL incorporated the permanent cathode technology in its 1978 refinery modernisation project. The material initially selected was 316L stainless steel, stitch-welded to a 304L stainless-steel hanger bar. The hanger-bar assembly was then electroplated with copper to a thickness of 1.3 millimeters (“mm”) (later increased to 2.5 mm and then 3.0 mm to improve the corrosion resistance of the hanger bar) to approximately 15 mm down onto the blade, which provided sufficient electrical conductivity and gave the assembly some corrosion resistance.\n\nElectrodeposited copper adheres quite firmly to the stainless steel so that it does not detach during refining. The vertical edges of the stainless steel plates are covered with tight-fitting polymer edge strips to prevent copper depositing around the edge of the cathode plate and so make it easier to strip the cathode copper from them. The bottom of the cathode plates were masked with a thin film of wax, again to prevent the copper depositing around the bottom edge. Wax was used rather than an edge strip to avoid having a ledge that would collect falling anode slimes and contaminate the cathode copper.\n\nWax was also used on the vertical edges to prolong the life of the vertical edge strip.\n\nThe original cathode stripping machine was based on that used at the Hikoshima plant of the Mitsui Mining and Smelting Company of Japan. However, considerable development work was necessary to modify the design to handle the copper cathodes, which were heavier than those at Hikoshima, and to process the cathode plates without damaging them. The machines also had to be redesigned to allow for waxing the sides and bottoms of the cathode plates to allow the next copper cathode sheets to be removed easily.\nThe stripping machines included receiving and discharge conveyors, washing, separation, cathode stacking and discharging, cathode plate separation for refurbishing, and the wax applications for the sides and bottoms of the cathode plates.\nThe original CRL stripping machine had the capability of stripping 250 cathode plates per hour.\n\nThe lower cost of the cathode plates compared to starter sheets means that shorter cathode cycle times are possible. The cycle time can range from 5 to 14 days, but a seven-day cathode cycle is common. This shorter cycle time improves current efficiency as less short circuits occur and there is less nodulation of the cathode surface.\n\nInitially, other refinery operators regarded the developments at CRL with scepticism. Stainless steel had been tried unsuccessfully as mother-plate material for copper starter sheets. They suffered from rapid deterioration of their strippability, resulting in “an almost daily increase in difficulty of stripping”. However, following the success of early installations in Townsville, Timmins, and many other places, the permanent stainless steel cathode technology has had widespread introduction.\n\nThe Isa Process was originally developed for the CRL copper electrorefinery in Townsville. It was subsequently licensed to the Copper Range Company for its White Pine copper refinery.\n\nThe next licence issued was for an electrowinning application at the Broken Hill Associated Smelters (“BHAS”) lead smelter at Port Pirie, in South Australia. BHAS commissioned in 1985 a solvent extraction and electrowinning (“SX–EW”) to recover copper from copper–lead matte produced as a by-product of the lead smelting operations. The process used involves leaching the copper from the material using an acidic chloride–sulfate solution, followed by solvent extraction to concentrate the leached copper and electrowinning.\n\nElectrowinning copper differs from electrorefining in that electrorefining uses a copper anode that is dissolved and redeposited on the cathode, while in electrowinning the copper is already in solution and is extracted from the solution by passing a current through the solution using an inert lead-alloy anode, and a cathode.\n\nThe chloride in the leach solution at Port Pirie proved to be a problem for the stainless steel cathodes of the Isa Process. A small amount of the chloride ions in the leach solution passed through the solvent into the electrolyte, leading to a reported chloride concentration of 80 milligrams per liter (“mg/L”) in the electrolyte. The presence of the chloride in the electrolyte caused pitting corrosion of the stainless steel cathode plates. After trying other types of stainless steel, BHAS switched to using titanium cathode plates.\n\nOther electrowinning operations followed, including Gibraltar Mines’ McLeese Lake operation and Magma Copper’s San Manuel copper mine in 1986, the Mexicana de Cananea operation in Mexico in 1989, and the Gunpowder Copper Limited operation at Gunpowder in north-west Queensland 1990. These operations did not suffer the chloride corrosion problems experienced by BHAS.\n\nFalconbridge Limited in mid-1981 commissioned a copper smelter and refinery near Timmins, Ontario, to treat concentrate from its Kidd Mine. However, at the outset, the quality of the cathode copper produced in the Kidd refinery suffered from the presence of higher than usual concentrations of lead and selenium in the copper smelter’s anodes. Kidd cathode copper was not able to meet its customers’ specifications and obtaining product certification for the London Metal Exchange (“LME”) became a key focus.\n\nAfter several process improvements were instigated, it was ultimately realised that the use of copper starter sheets was preventing the Kidd refinery meeting its cathode quality targets. Test work then began on the use of permanent stainless-steel cathodes. Preliminary tests using full-scale titanium blanks showed a reduction in the lead content of the cathode copper of a factor of four and a six-fold reduction in the selenium content, compared with the use of copper starter sheets.\n\nThe focus then shifted to developing a stripping machine, to develop stainless steel cathodes incorporating the existing header bars and evaluating edge-strip technology. The company’s board of directors gave approval for the conversion of the refinery to the Kidd technology in April 1985. The conversion was completed in 1986 and the Kidd refinery became the third to install permanent cathode and automated stripping technology.\n\nFalconbridge began marketing the technology in 1992, after many requests from other refinery operators. Thus, the Kidd Process created competition between two suppliers of permanent cathode technology. The main differences between them were the cathode header bar, edge stripping and the stripping machine technology.\n\nIn contrast to the stainless steel header bar then used in the Isa Process cathode, the Kidd Process cathode used a solid copper header bar, which was welded onto the stainless steel sheet. This gave a lower voltage drop (by 8–10 millivolts) than the Isa Process cathode.\n\nThe Isa Process technology used the waxed edge at the bottom of the cathode plate to stop the copper depositing around the plate’s bottom to form a single mass of copper running from the top of one side of the cathode plate around the bottom to the top of the other side. The copper was stripped from the cathode plates as two separate sheets. The Kidd Process technology did not use wax, as it was thought that it could exacerbate the impurity problems with which the plant had been struggling. At Kidd, the stripping approach was to remove the copper from the cathode plate as a single “V”-shaped cathode product, akin to a taco shell.\n\nThe Kidd Process initially used a “carousel” stripping machine, but a linear installation was subsequently developed to provide machines with lower to medium stripping capacities for electrowinning plants and smaller refineries. The linear stripping machines, first installed in 1996, were more compact, less complex and had lower installation costs than the carousel machines.\n\nAs outlined above, the Kidd Process did not use wax on its permanent cathodes. This highlighted disadvantages associated with the use of wax by the Isa Process. Cathode copper consumers applied pressure to producers to remove residual wax from the cathode copper, and the use of wax also created “housekeeping” problems for Isa Process operators.\n\nConsequently, MIM commenced a development program in 1997 aimed at eliminating the use of wax. This resulted in a new process called the Isa 2000 technology, which was able to produce single-sheet cathode (as opposed to the Kidd taco shell cathode) without using wax.\nThis was achieved by machining a 90° “V”-groove into the bottom edge of the cathode. The groove weakens the structure of the copper growing at the bottom edge of the cathode plate because the copper crystals grow perpendicular to the cathode plate from opposite sides of the groove, causing them to intersect at right angles to each other. A discontinuity in the structure is formed at the intersection that results in a weak zone, along which the copper splits during stripping.\n\nFigure 4 is a microscope view of the cross-section a copper cathode growing at the tip of a cathode plate. The yellow lines show the orientation and direction of crystal growth.\n\nThe standard Isa Process cathodes have slightly higher electrical resistance than solid-copper hanger bar systems used by the Kidd Process, meaning that there is a higher power cost. However, this cost is offset by greater reliability and predictability in the increase in resistance over time, allowing for maintenance planning.\n\nThe solid-copper hanger bars, on the other hand, lose electrical performance over a shorter period of time due to corrosive attack on the joint and sudden failure is possible. The maintenance costs of such systems are greater and less predictable. A trial of approximately 3000 solid-copper hanger bars, found over time a lower current efficiency in the solid-copper hanger bars of about 2.4%.\nThe MIM development team looked for other ways to reduce the resistance of the cathode plates and developed a new low-resistance cathode, which it called ISA Cathode BR. This new design extended the copper plating from 15–17 mm down the blade to approximately 55 mm, and it increased the thickness of the copper to 3.0 mm from the 2.5 mm used on the standard cathode.\nThe new cathode plate design was tested in the CRL refinery in Townsville and at Compania Minera Zaldivar in Chile. The Chilean results indicated the new cathode design had the potential to reduce power costs by approximately US$100,000 in 2003 for the plant, compared to using conventional Isa Process cathode designs.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2007, nickel prices rose from an average of US$5945 to US$37,216. Nickel is a key constituent of 316L stainless steel. This, combined with increases in some of the other constituents of the 316L alloy, prompted Xstrata Technology (by then the marketing organisation for the Isa Process technology) to seek an alternative material for the cathode plates.\n\nXstrata Technology personnel investigated the use of a new low-alloyed duplex stainless steel, LDX 2101 and 304L stainless steel. The LDX 2101 contains 1.5% nickel compared to 10–14% in 316L stainless steel.\n\nLDX 2101 has superior mechanical strength to the 316L stainless steel, allowing thinner sheets to be used for the cathode plates. However, the flatness tolerance of commercially available LDX 2101 steel did not meet the required specifications. Xstrata Technology worked with a manufacturer to produce sheets that did meet the required flatness tolerance.\n\nXstrata Technology also had to develop a finish that allowed the surface to function in the same way as 316L.\n\nCathode plates using LDX 2010 have equivalent corrosion resistance to 316L plates.\n\nThe LDX 2101 alloy provides an alternative to the 316L stainless steel, with the selection depending on relatively prices of the various steels.\n\nThe Kidd Process development team modified its cathode plates to cope with high-corrosion environments, such as the liberator cells used to remove contaminants in refineries and some high-corrosion environments in electrowinning plants.\n\nThe design of the plate features a stainless-steel jacket that surrounds a solid-copper hanger bar, protecting it from corrosion. A corrosion-resistant resin inside the stainless steel jacket protects the conductive interior weld between the header bar and the plate. The hanger bar is then finished with high-quality sealing to prevent ingress of electrolytes into the conductive interior weld.\n\nThis corrosion resistance electrode is marketed as the HP cathode plate.\n\nAfter the initial carousel stripping machine development and the later development of the linear stripping machine, Falconbridge personnel developed the Kidd Process High Capacity Linear Machine (“HCLM”). This machine included a loading and unloading system that was based on robotics.\n\nThe new design improved, among other things, the discharge area of the stripper. This had been a problem area for the carousel stripping machines, in which copper released from the cathode plate fell into an envelope and was then transferred to a material handling device. Copper that misbehaved and failed to transfer often required manual intervention. The new robot discharge system eliminated the free falling of the copper and physically transferred the released copper to the discharge location.\n\nAfter Falconbridge’s 1992 decision to market the Kidd technology, the Falconbridge and the then MIM Process Technologies groups competed for the tank house technology market. Between 1992 and 2006, 25 Kidd technology licences were sold, while there were 52 Isa process licences sold in the same period.\n\nXstrata plc (now Glencore Xstrata) took over MIM Holdings in 2003. The Isa Process technology continued to be developed and marketed by Xstrata Technology. Xstrata subsequently took over Falconbridge in 2006. The Kidd Process technology consequently became part of the Xstrata Technology tank house package and together they began to be marketed as IsaKidd, a name that represents the dual heritage of the technology.\n\nThe result has been a technology package that combined what were mutually regarded as the best of both versions. This combination led to the development of new stripping systems and new cathode designs are in development.\n\nThe variation in copper deposits on the cathode plates was one of the difficulties encountered with the earlier stripping machines. Areas of thin copper on the cathode plates, which are caused by short circuits, are difficult to separate from the stainless steel plate due to their lack of rigidity. Plates bearing such areas generally had to be rejected from the stripping machine and stripped manually. Similarly, sticky copper deposits (generally related to poor surface condition on the cathode plate, such as corroded surfaces or improper mechanical treatment), heavily nodulated cathode and laminated copper caused problems for stripping.\n\nStripping machine development focussed on developing a device that could be seen as a more accommodating and universal stripping machine that could handle cathode plates with problem copper deposits without rejecting them or slowing the stripping rate.\nThe result of this work was a new robotic cathode stripping machine. It incorporated the following features:\n\nThe stripping wedges are mounted on two robotic arms, one for each side of the cathode plate. These arms strip the copper from the plate and lay the sheets of cathode copper onto conveyors for them to be taken away for bundling.\n\nAdvantages cited for the IsaKidd technology include:\nStaff of the Cyprus Miami copper refinery wrote after their installation of the Isa Process technology that: “It is now well proven that tankhouses applying stainless steel cathode technology can consistently produce high quality cathodes while operating at higher cathode current density and at a lower cathode spacing than those used in conventional tankhouses.”\n"}
{"id": "54852685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54852685", "title": "José Fanjul", "text": "José Fanjul\n\nJosé Francisco \"Pepe\" Fanjul (born 1944) is the second eldest of the Fanjul brothers, who control a sugar and real estate business valued at US$8.2 billion.\n\nHe is the second son of Alfonso Fanjul Sr. and his wife Lillian Rosa Gomez-Mena. He received a bachelor's degree from Villanova University, and an MBA from New York University (NYU).\n\nFanjul is the vice chairman and president of Flo-Sun, a Fanjul family-owned sugar growing and refining company, and of Florida Crystals.\n\nFanjul is a longstanding supporter of Republican politicians, one of the largest contributors to George W. Bush, a leading patron of Marco Rubio, and has co-hosted a large fundraiser for Donald Trump. His brother Alfonso Fanjul Jr. has been a leading Democrat supporter since at least 1992, and was co-chair of Bill Clinton's Florida campaign.\n\nHe is married to Emilia May Fanjul, and they live in Palm Beach, Florida. They also own an apartment at 960 Fifth Avenue, New York City.\n\nIn 2002, the \"New York Times\" reported that Fanjul had \"considered\" leaving his wife for socialite Nina Griscom, with whom he had a \"celebrated affair\" (and who was married to plastic surgeon Daniel Baker), but had \"changed his mind\".\n\nIn 2002, their daughter Emilia Helena Fanjul married Brian C. Pfeifler, an investment banker with Morgan Stanley, son of Mr. and Mrs. Brian D. Pfeifler of Gulf Stream, Florida.\n"}
{"id": "30767483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30767483", "title": "Kohei Nishiyama", "text": "Kohei Nishiyama\n\nKohei Nishiyama (born 1970 in Hyogo Pref., Japan) is Kohei Nishiyama is CEO and Co-Founder of ELEPHANT DESIGN HOLDINGS ltd., and Founder of CUUSOO SYSTEM ltd CUUSOO.com, an online user innovation community, which collects users' ideas and turns them into real products. Since 1997, sixty wishes have been realized both in products and services. Currently 140,000 users, 3,000 designers and 500 manufactures participate in this platform. CUUSOO is used in universities as official curriculum and more than thousand students have benefited from this entrepreneurial educational experience.\n\nHe spent his teenage years in Colombia then returned to Japan to enter Tokyo university. <br>While he was at the university, he started a tailor made bag business, and studied industrial design at . <br>Prior to founding CUUSOO.com and elephant design, Kohei was a consultant at McKinsey & Company, where he primarily handled new product development projects.\n\nbetween the United States and Japan in a global context since 1907.\n\nWorld Design Capital from ICSID ( International Council of Societies of Industrial Design ).\n\nAlso, he was accepted a position a committee member and a judge for the Royal Society for \nthe Encouragement of the Arts, <br>Manufactures and Commerce, and became an advisor \nto the Secretariat of Intellectual Property Strategy Headquarters of Japanese Government.\n\nand became a member to Japan Industrial Designer's Association.<br>\nHe is currently advising the Danish government to build the world first public user innovation platform, JOIN.dk\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23211995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23211995", "title": "Labour standards in the World Trade Organization", "text": "Labour standards in the World Trade Organization\n\nLabour Standards in the World Trade Organization are binding rules, which form a part of the jurisprudence and principles applied within the rule making institutions of the World Trade Organization (WTO). Labour standards play an implicit, but not an overt role within the WTO, however it forms a prominent issue facing the WTO today, and has generated a wealth of academic debate.\n\nThe debate about the extent to which the WTO should recognise labour standards is typically based on the principles found in Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), as well as mainstream human rights treaties, most prominently, the International Bill of Human Rights.\n\nThe WTO is an international institution that deals with the rules of trade between countries with the view of inter alia \"raising standards of living, [and] ensuring full employment…\". This is achieved through a series of trade liberalising agreements based on consensus from the WTO's 164 members who form the General Council. The General Council, sitting as the Dispute Settlement Body (DSB) has the jurisdictional power to solve disputes brought before it, and is able to approve trade restrictive measures to enforce compliance with agreements. The WTO's dispute settlement process is compulsory and the DSB's recommendations and rulings immediately become binding international law.\n\nThe WTO has its origins in the 1944 Bretton Woods Conference which was convened by the Allied nations towards the end of World War II with the aim of establishing an international economic order. Although the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (now known as the World Bank) were created, the International Trade Organisation (ITO), the forerunner of the WTO, was only a proposition at this point. It was not until 1947 that negotiations were concluded and the ITO came into being. In the Havana Charter, the text of the ITO, Article 7 pertained specifically to fair labour standards, requiring that members of the organisation must, amongst other things, \"take fully into account the rights of workers under inter-governmental declarations, conventions and agreements\" and recognise \"that all countries have a common interest in the achievement and maintenance of fair labour standards related to productivity, and thus in the improvement of wages and working conditions as productivity may permit\". In the interim period before the ratification of the charter, states decided to follow an interim agreement, known as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), which was to be later incorporated into the ITO's legal framework. This temporary arrangement did not include any references to labour rights. The requisite number of states failed to ratify the ITO and so it failed and GATT became the basis for the current world trade system.\n\nThe WTO was established 1 January 1995 as a result of the Uruguay Round of negotiations (1986–1994). It was formed from the GATT, which became one of the core agreements annexed to the Marrakesh Agreement, the document establishing the WTO. None of the other WTO agreements concluded at the end of the Uruguay Round include labour rights obligations. The effects of GATT are still felt and some commentators have described the WTO as the one major international governance organisation that does not examine the impact of its policies upon the ability of member states to advance human rights.\n\nThe WTO currently does not have jurisdiction over labour standards and the only place in which they are mentioned in the entire set of WTO Agreements is in GATT Article XX e) \"relating to the products of prison labour\". Since the formation of the WTO in 1995 there have been increasing calls for action on the labour standards issue, and requests for a \"human face on the world economy\". The United Nations is among those bodies which have criticised the current system, and have called for a shift to a human rights oriented approach to trade, with steps to be taken \"to ensure that human rights principles and obligations are fully integrated in future negotiations in the World Trade Organization\", as the \"primacy of human rights law over all other regimes of international law is a basic and fundamental principle that should not be departed from\". It is clear that states have both a legal and a moral obligation to uphold human rights standards, inclusive of their activities in the economic sphere. The United Nations (UN) Charter states that in \"the event of a conflict between the obligations of the Members of the United Nations under the present Charter and their obligations under any other international agreement, their obligations under the present Charter shall prevail\".'Charter of the United Nations', Chapter XVI, Article 103 of Charter. The UN Charter explicitly advocates the upholding of human rights and fundamental freedoms.'Charter of the United Nations', preamble, art. 62(2). This means that respect for human rights, and within this, labour standards, effectively trumps any conflicting WTO Agreements. However, not all WTO members are members of the UN (e.g. Taiwan), which raises issues.\n\nIdentified by the International Labour Organization (ILO) in the 'Declaration of the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work', core labour standards are \"widely recognised to be of particular importance\". They are universally applicable, regardless of whether the relevant conventions have been ratified, the level of development of a country or cultural values. These standards are composed of qualitative, not quantitative standards and don't establish a particular level of working conditions, wages or health and safety standards. They are not intended to undermine the comparative advantage that developing countries may hold. Core labour standards are important human rights and are recognised in widely ratified human rights instruments including the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CROC), the most widely ratified human rights treaty with 193 parties, and the ICCPR with 160 parties. The core labour standards are:\n\n\nMost ILO member countries have ratified all of these conventions - 140 ILO member States have ratified all 8 fundamental Conventions.\n\nThere are some major roadblocks to the process of recognising core labour standards within the WTO. Firstly, incorporating labour rights into the WTO is not simply a question of law and economics, but also of politics and ethics. Interplay between states and interest groups cloud the already complex issue further. Recognising human rights and specifically core labour standards in the WTO raises a series of thorny political, and in some cases moral, questions. Because each state is acting primarily according to its national interest, even technically viable solutions that could benefit the majority may become politicised. The highly democratic nature of the WTO compounds this problem because consensus needs to be reached before any major decisions are made, meaning each country effectively carries the power of veto, sometimes making it difficult to achieve real progress.\n\nSecondly, this issue occurs at the intersection between trade and human rights which raises a series of unique questions. Although the trade and human rights regimes developed alongside each other following WWII, in some ways they are very different. This is because human rights law, unlike other types of international law that are more contractual in nature, governs how states treat their own citizens. Since the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648, sovereignty has been a key principle of the international system, with states being free from any higher legal authority with the entitlement to exclusive, unqualified, and supreme rule within a delimited territory. The atrocities committed by the Nazi regime in WWII however resulted in the establishment of a human rights regime where states have a responsibility to protect the rights of their citizens, and may be subject to international condemnation and even intervention if they fail to do so. Human rights law results in an unprecedented number of controls on domestic behaviour, \"challenging the traditional legal concept of state sovereignty\".\n\nTrade liberalisation on the other hand places constraints on domestic policy making ability, and the ability of states to fulfil their treaty obligations. For example, it is trade liberalisation that has led developing countries to deregulate in order to attract investment and retain a competitive advantage. The governments are therefore restricted in providing key workplace rights and satisfying core labour standards. This is known as the 'race to the bottom'. In simple terms, it is a phenomenon where interstate competition results in the progressive dismantling of regulatory standards, and in this case, those governing labour standards. In order to gain a comparative advantage and attract foreign investment, countries deregulate which leads to a decrease in working conditions and wages. The race to the bottom becomes a vicious circle with states competing to deregulate even further resulting in major human rights problems.\n\nMany developing countries express their concern that labour standards will have a deleterious effect on their economy. The comparative wage advantage is an essential part of the world economic order so there is a general opposition to the incorporation of labour standards within the WTO. Developing countries also hold legitimate fears that the attempts to incorporate labour standards may be used as a thinly veiled protectionist measure. Tariffs can have a devastating effect on a developing economy. Although the threat of protectionism is valid and justified, in some cases it is just trade language being used to justify heinous human rights abuses such as slave labour and exploitive forms of child labour. The recognition of labour standards in the WTO may \"alienate Members who negotiated the agreement with different expectations\" and cause further unrest. However a country is unlikely to leave the WTO altogether as the disadvantages of leaving the system would be too great.\n\nTaking these tensions into account, there are some possible ways to incorporate core labour standards into the WTO.\n\nIn theory, it is possible to use existing measures within the WTO to protect certain human rights. Within the WTO Agreements there are general exceptions (GATT Article XX) that can be used for the protection of specific human rights. GATT Article XX paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) can be used to impose unilateral trade restrictive measures on countries for unacceptable labour standards. However, the wording of the exceptions has resulted in extreme difficulty for those who try to invoke trade measures, as is evidenced by 48 years of GATT where no country restricted trade through these sections. One of the reasons for this is that even when trade restrictive measures are successfully applied to a state, GATT Article 1, the principle of most favoured nation treatment, comes into play. This prescribes in essence, that any country which treats a state in a particular way then has to grant the same treatment to all other states. In regards to sanctions this means that if trade sanctions are applied to one country for a certain human rights abuse, they must then be applied to all countries who abuse the same right. This can have massive economic and political ramifications.\n\nThe political aspect of GATT Article XX aside, there are technical legal problems involved with invoking the clause in the first place. The wording in the relevant sections of GATT Article XX means that it must be proved that it is \"necessary\" to restrict a product in order to protect human, animal or plant life or health. For a state to legally take unilateral trade restrictive measures under these sections, the 'necessity test' must first be passed. There are three components. Firstly, it must be determined whether the interests protected are vital. Secondly, there is an assessment as to whether or not alternative measures are reasonably available and thirdly it is determined whether these alternate measures are less inconsistent with GATT (are the measures being proposed 'necessary' to combat the risk?). This means that a link must be established between both the targeted risk, the product being targeted and the trade measures being undertaken, with the burden of proof is solely upon the party seeking to uphold the clause. According to Black's Law dictionary, 'necessary' does not have to carry the meaning 'indispensable' but can refer to the most appropriate or convenient option. In the Korea- Beef case it was taken to mean 'nearly indispensable', and this definition has become a benchmark by which other cases are evaluated. Context is very important, and the greater the risk posed by a product the more lenience is granted when proving a link. For example, if there is a danger to human life, the evaluation is less stringent. However it is still extremely difficult to justify cases of labour standards abuse under GATT XX. Even if the necessity test is satisfied, the chapeau to Article XX must also be satisfied- the laws must not be applied in a manner so as to constitute arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination, nor be a disguised restriction on international trade. This last requirement is particularly important because there is often a suspicion that the insertion of labour standards into free trade agreements/other measures, for example, are really disguised restrictions on trade.\n\nFurthermore, the 'necessity test' ensures that only when the products themselves present a threat can they be restricted. Therefore, protecting labour rights through GATT Article XX is impossible, even if the production of the product may threaten human life. For example, the worst forms of child labour are a heinous practice which fall within the Article XX exception (b) yet children cannot be protected under this because it is their work conditions which are harmful, not the products themselves. In order to assist in removing constraints on states' ability to protect labour rights through GATT Article XX, the word 'necessary' should be replaced in Article XX(b) with 'relating to', as is used in GATT XX (c) and (g), or 'involving' as is the wording in (i). In the Korea- Beef case this was decided to be \"more flexible textually\", not requiring such stringent linkage. This would allow trade measures to be implemented to combat labour standards with more ease, whilst ensuring that the exceptions are not used indiscriminately. However, due to the political concerns expressed above it would be quite difficult to amend the GATT, especially Article XX.\n\nA solution that is widely talked about by some trade unionists and human rights groups is the incorporation of a social clause into the WTO Agreement. Essentially, this means that the core labour standards would inserted into an article within the WTO Agreements which could be a more viable option than amendment of the Agreements themselves. If a state violated the social clause, the breach could become subject to WTO scrutiny, through the usual WTO dispute settlement provisions (provided provision is made for this when inserting a social clause). As a result of dispute settlement proceedings, the DSB could, at the request of the complaining party, recommend that retaliatory trade measures be taken against the offending country. At first glance this might seem to be a good solution, as labour rights could not only be recognised, but enforced within the dispute settlement mechanisms of the WTO.\n\nWithin the international system it is difficult to enforce international law, particularly with regard to human rights. So using trade sanctions as a coercive measure is an appealing prospect to ensure cooperation. However, there are many reasons why trade sanctions are an inappropriate mechanism for enforcing labour standards. They are generally against WTO principles, and can only be used in very limited circumstances that are authorized by the WTO agreements, such as anti-dumping and countervailing measures. Politically, it is unlikely that unilateral action would be allowed for breaches of labour standards. Even assuming that labour standards are able to be enforced through trade measures within the WTO, either through amendments to GATT XX, the introduction of a social clause or any other measure, they do not provide a solution to the complexity of the labour standards issue and should not be used to deal with disputes over labour standards.\n\nFirstly, trade measures have the effect of constraining access to markets, which is why they are effective as a deterrent. However this may be counterproductive, resulting in developing countries becoming even poorer without helping the workers. \"Trade sanctions are a blunt instrument, penalizing the country as a whole, not just those responsible for rights violations.\" The linkage and inalienability between civil & political, and economic, social & cultural rights means that without a strong economic foundation, not only ICESCR rights are jeopardised, but ICCPR rights also. For example, in ensuring that civil and political rights such as the prohibition of forced labour are protected, there must be sufficient funds available to legislate against this practice, and monitor and ensure that the legislation is carried out. Therefore, when a country is denied access to global markets, the resulting poverty can mean that the capability of the country to protect human rights is diminished, even if the political will is present. Not only may the government be affected, but individual businesses and workers may experience increased hardship as a result of trade barriers. For example, wages may be lowered to retain a competitive edge, which is the direct opposite of the intended effect of the sanctions.\n\nSecondly, social clauses and the resulting sanctions are only applicable to export sectors. This causes considerable problems. For example, if sanctions were applied to the export sector because of the use of child labour, affected children would simply move into employment opportunities in the non-export sector (assuming full labour moveability). Working in the unregulated and non-accountable 'shadow economy' can lead to even worse conditions and human rights abuses. Studies show that child labour in the export sector is only 5% of overall child labour. Therefore, sanctions may not improve the situation at all and may force children into even worse working conditions. Because sanctions only apply to exported goods, abuse of core labour standards can occur domestically with few legal repercussions. One of the core conventions, that condemning forced labour, is blatantly violated in the US where prison inmates make commercial products. However, because they are supplied solely to the domestic market, the WTO does not have jurisdiction and trade sanctions cannot be applied.\n\nThirdly, poor labour standards are usually rooted in poverty and this is not something that sanctions can solve. If the root cause of the problem is not addressed and the a worker loses their job because of a heavy handed approach such as trade measures resulting in mass lay-offs, the family may lose its income and be plunged into greater poverty.\n\nFurthermore, sanctions have the potential be used in an unfair way or for protectionist purposes. One reason for this is because when the DSB rules that trade sanctions are allowed in response to a violation of one of the agreements, it is up to the wronged country to choose what products it will restrict. This has seen the US restrict a variety of imports from the EU including telecommunications products and cheese, after winning a case in the WTO over bananas. This is different from GATT XX in that the targeted product does not have to be directly related to the perceived threat. The problem with the indiscriminate restrictions of products is that it gives the complainant a huge amount of power which could lead to protectionism. Trade penalties can have a much larger effect on developing countries than developed. Although legally they have the same power as other nations, developing countries are at a disadvantage when it comes to pursuing trade measures because unilateral trade measures often have deleterious consequences for the punishing country as well as the offender. In addition, hostile regimes can gain control of the black market and charge exorbitant prices. Trade sanctions are not necessarily an effective way to deal with \"wayward\" governments as it simply gives them greater control of the countries resources.\n\nAlthough not a suitable long term solution, a way to break the current deadlock would be to further institutionalise the relationship between the WTO and ILO. The WTO Secretariat has some restricted interaction with the ILO \"compiling statistics, research and technical assistance and training\". Originally however, the ITO was supposed to have a strong working relationship with the ILO and \"consult and co-operate\" in all labour related matters, as well as cooperating in regards economic development and reconstruction. The current system is but a shadow of this, with very limited collaboration. When the issue of labour standards was raised at the 1996 Singapore Ministerial conference, Article 4 of the resultant Ministerial Declaration ruled that \"the WTO and ILO Secretariats will continue their existing collaboration\". The Chairman of the Singapore Ministerial Conference Yeo Chow Tong later clarified in his concluding remarks that this collaboration \"respects fully the respective and separate mandates of the two organisations\". During the Geneva Ministerial Conference, the US, EU and South Africa pushed again for a more substantive relationship between the two organisations which was opposed by a group of developing countries, led by Brazil. But despite the amount of controversy and discussion about the issue, the Ministerial Declaration failed to make a mention of it.\n\nThe obvious reluctance of the WTO to deal with labour standards and the unlikelihood of recognition in this field in the near future means that the link between the WTO and ILO is crucial in regulating labour standards. However this relationship has never been formalised within the WTO and so will remain ineffective at best without proactive change. Within the Agreement Establishing the WTO, Article III 'Functions of the WTO' Par. 5 of reads: \"With a view to achieving greater coherence in global economic policy-making, the WTO shall cooperate, as appropriate, with the International Monetary Fund and with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and its affiliated agencies.\" The ILO should be inserted into this section. Furthermore, in order to establish a formal, more meaningful relationship, a Ministerial Declaration should be written acknowledging the high level of cooperation and interconnectedness of the organisations, similar to the Ministerial Declarations regarding the relationship with the IMF and World Bank. The advantage of this relationship is that the ILO would not be undermined by the WTO, maintaining its authority in regards to labour standards. The mandates of each organisation would be respected, and there would be no recourse to trade sanctions whilst maintaining a degree of basic protection for labour rights. Collaboration between the ILO and WTO should also make use of the joint research facilities available, and a series of reports on labour rights should be created, similar to the ILO and WTO report \"Joint Study on Trade and Employment\", but with a focus on labour standards. In the thinking of ILO Director General Michel Hansenne in the aftermath of the Singapore Ministerial Conference, a good working relationship could be established by pressuring states to ratify the relevant ILO conventions comprising the core labour standards. A scheme was established where those states who do not choose to ratify have to present a brief every 4 years \"showing the extent to which effect has been given, or is proposed to be given, to any of the provisions of the Convention by legislation, administrative action, collective agreement or otherwise and stating the difficulties which prevent or delay the ratification of such Convention\". Although the ILO is unable to enforce labour standards and can simply make recommendations, relying on moral suasion, Hansenne's scheme once improved could lead to increased transparency and lead to regular discussion about labour standards, which is obviously to be desired. More regular reports, and increased pressure on non-ratifying state are necessary. Following the Singapore Ministerial Conference Hansenne further opined that it would be beneficial if a complaints committee were set up which could recommend that\n(a) A case does not require further consideration\n(b) The offending government rectify the labour standards abuse\n(c) The matter be referred to the Fact-finding and Conciliation Commission of the ILO with the agreement of the offending government.\nUnfortunately, the committee idea failed to gain support.\n\nIt has been suggested that another way in which to increase the importance of the relationship between the WTO and ILO is that countries wishing to join the organisation must first ratify the relevant ILO convention. Within the WTO, existing members set the standards of accession. However this use of double standards is completely unjust, and does nothing to address the labour standard abuses of existing members. This is still no way of coercing uncooperative states into respecting core standards, and not including labour standards expressly within the WTO has the possible result of sidelining the issue and so is no means an ideal solution, but remains a worthy first step.\n\nOne suggestion for the improvement of the WTO system is to allow for increased civil society participation. This would result in the centralisation of social issues, and within this, core labour standards. Furthermore, civil society groups are in an ideal position to put pressure on governments to uphold their human rights commitments, and monitor any progress in this field. Within civil society, Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) would play a particularly crucial role. The term NGO passed into popular usage in the early 1970s and has come to mean a non-profit organisation that has specific objectives that is independent from the government, non-criminal, non-violent, not a political party. Within the UN under Article 71 there are 2,350 (2004) NGOs with consultative status. This successful system has set a precedent for formalised NGO participation and should be used as a model for the WTO. There is provision for NGO participation within the WTO already under Article 5:2 'Relations with Other Organisations of the Marrakech Agreement': \"The General Council may make appropriate arrangements for consultation and cooperation with non-governmental organizations concerned with matters related to those of the WTO\". The WTO is a strictly intergovernmental organisation, which means that civil society has no direct input, and much decision-making takes place behind closed doors. This system is appropriate when dealing with tariff reduction issues, but as large scale protests outside WTO meetings continue to demonstrate, social issues which concern civil society at large are forming a part of the WTO agenda. Globalisation means that decisions made at the WTO have come to affect everyone's lives, and hence there has been an increase in interest in the goings-on of the WTO by civil society. Allowing NGOs to have a say could increase transparency of the system, put pressure on non-compliant governments and provide specialist knowledge and support. Many organisations such as Oxfam, the International Confederation of Trade Unions and One World have already investigated the link between trade and labour standards- it does not make sense to ignore their expertise in this field. Unlike many domestic judicial systems, the WTO does not allow public scrutiny of proceedings, and it is this, rather than lack of any textual mechanism, that impedes NGO involvement. Forums are an effective way to allow NGOs to express their opinion and present information and regular forums should be held to discuss current, relevant issues. This idea has certainly won some support. In the aftermath of the Geneva Ministerial Conference in 1998, US President Bill Clinton said that \"The WTO was created to lift the lives of ordinary citizens', it should listen to them. I propose the WTO, for the first time, provide a forum where business, labour, environmental and consumer groups can speak out and help guide further evolution of the WTO. When this body convenes again, I believe that the world's trade ministers should sit down with representatives of the broad public to begin this discussion\". It is not only NGOs who should have increased participation, but expert UN human rights bodies who are also highly proficient in exploring the trade and human rights intersection. For example, the UN Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights has regrettably not been included in WTO processes.\n\nOne of the first steps to enforcing core labour standards is to acknowledge them explicitly within the WTO. Specific amendments to the body of the agreements on how to include labour standards within the WTO will take time as there are myriad proposed ways in which to do this. Therefore, incorporating the importance of labour standards into the preamble of the Agreement Establishing the WTO is an important action- with both symbolic and legal value. Although this does not place any binding obligations upon states to take immediate action on the labour standards issue, it can be used for the purposes of interpretation according to the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties: \"The context for the purpose of the interpretation of a treaty shall comprise, in addition to the text... its preamble and annexes\". There are oblique references to human rights already within the WTO preamble, but more explicit recognition is desirable. The importance of the preamble has been recognised by the Appellate Body report in many cases so if labour rights were inserted into the preamble, the DSB when interpreting the agreements would be forced to take the preamble into account, and decisions with more favourable conclusions for labour rights would hopefully be passed down. So although this measure seems ineffective, once consensus has been established to include labour standards, this is one of the first steps that should be taken.\n\nIncorporation of core labour standards into the preamble would also lead to the examination of human rights abuses through existing WTO review mechanisms. In 1988 the decision was made to make regular reviews of state's trade policy conducted by the WTO, a key part of the transparency of the organisation. Governments submit information to the WTO Secretariat who issue a report which is then examined by the General Council sitting as the Trade Policy Review Body. Government policies are reviewed in relation to the \"functioning of the multilateral trading system\" so as to encourage adherence to commitments under the agreements, and greater transparency. At present, the reviews are focusing solely upon the issue of trade liberalisation, and whether a member's policies support this. Although free trade is an important issue, it is not the overall objective of the multilateral trading system and should not be examined to the exclusion of all else. The real objectives of the WTO, with the aim of \"raising standards of living, [and] ensuring full employment…\" are conspicuously ignored. If labour rights were incorporated into the Marrakech Agreement Preamble, it would be even easier to address labour standards through the trade policy review mechanism.\n\nOne of the problems with the system is that the member state has the responsibility to supply the information to the WTO Secretariat. With no one checking on them, this could lead to problems however NGOs could play an important role in overcoming this. A second issue is that the regularity of reviews is calculated by a state's share of world trade. This means that the top 4 countries (the \"Quad\"): US, EU, Japan and Canada must review their policy every 2 years. The next 16 countries must submit reviews every four years and developing countries every 6 years. Although the system may work currently, when it comes to human rights this is a problem. This is because the labour standards and human rights abuses of developing countries are no less egregious than those in developed countries and so do not deserve to be monitored any less. Each state should have to submit a report addressing the \"real\" objectives of the WTO every 2 years or so, as well as a report addressing trade liberalisation according to the current system. By reporting on labour standards, the issue is opened to discussion, which can only be positive. Although states are not forced to act on any labour standards abuses that may be found within their territories, the public acknowledgement of their existence could provide fuel for human rights groups and victims. The very act of raising the labour standards issue is the first step because the power of shame should never be underestimated.\n\n"}
{"id": "1342747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1342747", "title": "List of social entrepreneurs", "text": "List of social entrepreneurs\n\nA social entrepreneur is an entrepreneur who works to increase social capital by founding social ventures, including charities, for-profit businesses with social causes, and other non-government organizations. These types of activities are distinct from work of non-operating foundations and philanthropists who provide funding and other support for them.\n\n"}
{"id": "50019371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50019371", "title": "Malan triangles", "text": "Malan triangles\n\nMalan's triangles – comprising the \"triangle of conflict\" and the \"triangle of persons\" – were developed in 1979 by the psychotherapist David Malan as a way of illuminating the phenomenon of transference in psychotherapy, both brief and extended.\n\nTheir application has continued to prove fruitful into the twenty-first century.\n\nAs Malan himself acknowledged, he drew the concept of his triangles from previous analytic writings (albeit combining in the process very different aspects of the tradition). The American Freudian Karl Menninger - building on Franz Alexander's concept of the totalizing transference interpretation, which linked past experience, life context and the analytic setting – set out what he called the triangle of insight, involving the three poles of analyst, past significant others, and present significant others. This triangle Malan renamed as the triangle of persons.\n\nMalan derived his second triangle from his Tavistock Clinic colleague, the Kleinian group therapist Henry Ezriel. Ezriel had used a three-tiered interpretation for identifying members' attitudes to the group – the required (surface) attitude, the wished-for attitude, and the catastrophic attitude (a traumatic expectation, fear of which helped turn the wished-for attitude into the required or conformist attitude). Simplified, Ezriel's three tiers became Malan's triangle of conflict, comprising defence, impulse and anxiety.\n\nMalan's achievement was to place these very differently-sourced triangles in juxtaposition, the one to illuminate intra-psychic processes, the other the inter-personal. Malan himself claimed that “between them they can be used to represent almost every intervention that a therapist makes...skill consists in knowing which part of which triangle to include at any given moment”.\n\nBoth triangles should be imagined as inverted, standing on their apex – which in the one consisted of the unconscious impulse, in the other of early childhood links to the parents. Much interpretation using the triangles concerns illuminating defences and current relationships, with reference to the unconscious feelings and personal transferences underlying them.\n\nCritics have warned of the danger of the mechanical, the overly-intellectual application of Malan's triangles in actual practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "20200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20200", "title": "Management science", "text": "Management science\n\nManagement science (MS), is the broad interdisciplinary study of problem solving and decision making in human organizations, with strong links to management, economics, business, engineering, management consulting, and other sciences. It uses various scientific research-based principles, strategies, and analytical methods including mathematical modeling, statistics and numerical algorithms to improve an organization's ability to enact rational and accurate management decisions by arriving at optimal or near optimal solutions to complex decision problems. Management sciences help businesses to achieve goals using various scientific methods. \n\nThe field was initially an outgrowth of applied mathematics, where early challenges were problems relating to the optimization of systems which could be modeled linearly, i.e., determining the optima (maximum value of profit, assembly line performance, crop yield, bandwidth, etc. or minimum of loss, risk, costs, etc.) of some objective function. Today, management science encompasses any organizational activity for which the problem can be structured as a functional system so as to obtain a solution set with identifiable characteristics.\n\nManagement science is concerned with a number of different areas of study: One is developing and applying models and concepts that may prove useful in helping to illuminate management issues and solve managerial problems. The models used can often be represented mathematically, but sometimes computer-based, visual or verbal representations are used as well or instead. Another area is designing and developing new and better models of organizational excellence. \n\nManagement science research can be done on three levels:\n\nThe management scientist's mandate is to use rational, systematic, science-based techniques to inform and improve decisions of all kinds. The techniques of management science are not restricted to business applications but may be applied to military, medical, public administration, charitable groups, political groups or community groups.\n\nIts origins can be traced to operations research, which made its debut during World War II when the Allied forces recruited scientists of various disciplines to assist with military operations. In these early applications, the scientists utilized simple mathematical models to make efficient use of limited technologies and resources. The application of these models within the corporate sector became known as management science. \n\nIn 1967 Stafford Beer characterized the field of management science as \"the business use of operations research\".\n\nSome of the fields that management science involves include: \n\n\nas well as many others.\n\nApplications of management science are abundant in industry as airlines, manufacturing companies, service organizations, military branches, and in government. The range of problems and issues to which management science has contributed insights and solutions is vast. It includes:.\n\nManagement science is also concerned with so-called \"soft-operational analysis\", which concerns methods for strategic planning, strategic decision support, and problem structuring methods (PSM). At this level of abstraction, mathematical modeling and simulation will not suffice. Therefore, during the past 30 years, a number of non-quantified modelling methods have been developed. These include morphological analysis and various forms of influence diagrams.\n\n"}
{"id": "57218009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57218009", "title": "Mateusz Mach", "text": "Mateusz Mach\n\nMateusz Mach (born April 15, 1997) is a Polish entrepreneur, start-up developer, founder of the world's first sign language messenger Five App and the co-founder of OPUS. Finalist of the ranking of the most influential European entrepreneurs under the age of thirty, Forbes 30 Under 30.\n\nMach graduated from high school III Liceum Ogólnokształcące im. Marynarki RP in Gdynia, Poland with International Baccalaureate Diploma. \nCurrently he studies Economics at New York University Abu Dhabi. He also attended courses at New York University Leonard N. Stern School of Business.\n\nIn 2015, at the age of 17 Mateusz Mach debuted as an entrepreneur when he introduced the Five App start-up, valued at two million Polish Zloty. The mobile application was the world's first sign language messenger, enabling deaf people to communicate efficiently using Android- and iOS-based devices. As a social impact project, the Five App was largely acclaimed among the targeted audience and acquired over ten thousands of users. \nIn 2017, Mach cofounded a new start-up, OPUS. The firm aims at the decentralization of music industry by introducing Ethereum-backed utility tokens for users to purchase access to music streaming services. He launched the Initial Coin Offering (ICO) of OPUS in the Summer of 2017.\n\nIn 2017 Mach was ranked in the European edition of the Forbes 30 Under 30 Ranking, thanks to the success of Five App. Mateusz Mach is also the finalist of New Europe 100 List, a project founded by Google and Financial Times in order to distinguish the most innovative entrepreneurs in the region of Central and Eastern Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "36365306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36365306", "title": "Medicen", "text": "Medicen\n\nMedicen (also called Medicen Paris Region) is a French business cluster created in 2005 and located in Île-de-France. Its main focus is Biomedical engineering.\n\nIt brings together 13 major companies, 138 small and medium enterprises, 28 research centers, and universities.\n\nThe cluster is dedicated to biological and clinical research to find new drugs and gene therapies. The Medicen Paris Region has six thematic priorities. Three of these themes are for therapeutic purposes: nervous system disease, Cancer, and infectious diseases. The other three focus on technology: molecular medicine, biomedical Imaging and Science and Technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "28235643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28235643", "title": "Neal Asbury", "text": "Neal Asbury\n\nNeal Asbury (born May 2, 1957) is an American entrepreneur and Chief Executive of The Legacy Companies. In addition to being an advocate of entrepreneurship and free enterprise, he is a published author, and he hosts the nationally syndicated talk radio show \"Neal Asbury's Truth for America\" (\"now Neal Asbury's Made in America\").\n\nNeal Asbury attended Jefferson Township High School in Jefferson Township, New Jersey. After graduation he enrolled in Rowan University in New Jersey. Neal graduated from Rowan University in 1979 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Music.\n\nAfter graduating from Rowan State University Neal began working in the mail room of a Fifth Avenue as a food service exporter. A year later, Asbury moved on to Manila, working as a director of sales for a large trading company and traveling to capitals throughout the Far East. Seven years later, he founded Asbury Worldwide. In 1987, Asbury Worldwide grew to include twelve distribution facilities around the globe. In 1989, Neal began FAB Asia, Inc. in Manila, Philippines which was the Asian fabricator of commercial kitchens for McDonald's as well as other American restaurant chains.\n\nAfter selling his group of companies in July 1999, Mr. Asbury established Greenfield World Trade which is a global trading company selling and servicing American manufactured products in over 130 countries to both the retail and commercial markets. He acquired J. Cobo (a distribution company with operations throughout Latin America), General (a manufacturer of food preparation equipment), Zeroll (a manufacturer of kitchen gadgets), and Omega (a manufacturer of electrical kitchen appliances).\n\nAsbury has received the E-Star Export Award and the Export Achievement Award from the U.S. Department of Commerce. Asbury's company was recognized as National Champion Exporter of The Year(2008) after they were first recognized in February as Exporter of the Year for Florida, which was preceded by being selected as the Region IV Exporter of the Year, covering the Southeast United States. Greenfield World Trade's Neal Asbury Named SBA's National Champion Exporter of the Year. He was also a finalist for the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award in 2010.\n\nHe is a founding faculty member of Export University (a collaboration between the District Export Council and the U.S. Department of Commerce). He is also the chairman of the Export University National Oversight Committee.\n\nAdditionally, he is a vice chairman of the District Export Council National Steering Committee and a chairman of the Florida District Export Council, appointed to serve by the U.S. Secretary of Commerce. Asbury also serves as a member of the International Advisory Committee to Governor Charlie Crist of Florida and he is a member of the International Policy Committee of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington D.C. He has testified before the Philippine Senate on multiple occasions on foreign trade.\n\nEach week Asbury hosts a nationally broadcast talk radio show, \"Neal Asbury's Made In America\", (formerly \"Truth For America\"), produced by Atlantic Radio Network. It is broadcast around the country by Radio America and deals with topics related to America’s entrepreneurial spirit and the American Dream.\n\nAsbury also writes the Conscientious Equity blog, which focuses on his interest for small business, entrepreneurship and the benefits of expanding the U.S. role in global commerce. Topics discussed on the Conscientious Equity blog range from the health care crisis to job creation and international trade. Asbury’s blog entries are often syndicated online, appearing on such sites as Moneynews.com. His advocacy has taken him to address the United Nations at the Commission of Trade and Development, as well as frequent speaking engagements at universities, government events and trade associations.\n\nOn December 29 in 1984 Neal married Elizabeth Trixia Gomez Carpio, an actress from the Philippines. They have two daughters, Alyssa Kyla Asbury and Anjelica Dawn Asbury.\n"}
{"id": "26352664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26352664", "title": "Nexcelle", "text": "Nexcelle\n\nNexcelle is a joint venture between GE Aviation’s \"Middle River Aircraft Systems\" and Safran Nacelles – both of which are suppliers of engine nacelles, thrust reversers and aerostructures.\n\nHeadquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Nexcelle has teamed with its parent companies to develop, produce and support integrated propulsion systems for jet engine applications on single-aisle jetliners and business aircraft.\n\nWith its initial program win, Nexcelle is positioned as a key partner on the world’s first truly integrated propulsion system, the CFM International LEAP-1C engine on China’s COMAC C919 jetliner. The joint venture subsequently was selected to provide the nacelle and thrust reverser for GE’s Passport integrated propulsion system, which powers the Bombardier Global 7000 and Global 8000 business jets.\n\nGE Aviation and Safran announced an agreement on a new nacelle joint venture on July 15, 2008 at the Farnborough Airshow in Farnborough, England. Nexcelle was announced as the name of the new company on September 21, 2009.\n\nOn June 14, 2009, the appointment of Steve Walters as Nexcelle president was announced at the Paris Air Show. Walters had worked in various engineering and leadership roles, with the majority of his career at GE – including two of his most recent roles as director of Business Operations for the CFM56 engine program and the airfoils business Quality and Compliance leader for GE Aviation.\n\nAlso at the 2009 Paris Air Show, Nexcelle’s cooperative nacelle systems agreement with CFM International was detailed. This accord covers the development and production of integrated propulsion systems for potential new applications for CFM engines.\n\nMichel J. Abella was announced as the Director of Programs at Nexcelle on December 18, 2009.\n\nIn December, 2009, Nexcelle became a partner on the world's first truly integrated propulsion system. The company was selected to provide a combined nacelle, thrust reverser and exhaust system for the new CFM International LEAP-1C engine selected as the sole western powerplant to launch China’s COMAC C919 jetliner. Nexcelle’s contribution to LEAP-1C on the C919 includes an innovative nacelle design that is produced with a significant percentage of composites, and which incorporates advanced acoustic treatment. It also is to be equipped with an Electrical Thrust Reverser Actuation System (ETRAS).\n\nIn October 2010, GE selected Nexcelle to provide the nacelle and thrust reverser for the GE Passport 20 engine to be used on Bombardier’s new Global 7000 and Global 8000 business jets. The announcement was made at the NBAA Annual Meeting and Convention. At the Paris Air Show in June 2011, Nexcelle signed the purchase agreement for its supply of the GE Passport 20’s nacelle system to GE Aviation.\n\nNexcelle’s presence at the 2011 Paris Air Show also included a functional half-scale model demonstrating key elements of the company’s integrated propulsion system concepts for jet engines on airliners.\n\nIn January 2012, Nexcelle announced the appointment of Huntley Myrie as its new president – succeeding the company’s first president, Steve Walters, who moved on to become the product leader for GE Aviation’s nacelle and aerostructures activities.\n\nNexcelle began full-scale testing of its nacelle demonstrator – called PANACHE (Pylon And Nacelle Advanced Configuration for High Efficiency) – in May 2012, marking a first validation of the thrust reverser element for the company’s Integrated Propulsion System technology. This activity occurred at GE Aviation’s Peebles Test Operation in Ohio, and it involved 200 cycles representing normal deployments, rejected take-off deployments and aborted landings.\n\nMichel Abella was appointed president of Nexcelle in August 2013. Ken Onderko took over the role in December 2016.\n"}
{"id": "1296094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1296094", "title": "Nicky Oppenheimer", "text": "Nicky Oppenheimer\n\nNicholas F. Oppenheimer (born 8 June 1945) is a South African billionaire businessman and philanthropist. He was formerly the chairman of De Beers diamond mining company and of its subsidiary, the Diamond Trading Company, and former deputy chairman of Anglo American. He is the second richest African.\n\nNicholas is the son of Bridget (née McCall) and Harry Oppenheimer, and grandson of Ernest Oppenheimer, founder of Anglo American and the first generation of the family to chair (from 1929) the De Beers diamond mining company in South Africa, established by Cecil John Rhodes in 1888. His father was of German Jewish descent. Oppenheimer was educated at Harrow School and Christ Church, Oxford, where he read Philosophy, Politics and Economics and took the Oxford MA.\n\nOppenheimer joined the Anglo American Corporation in 1968, and was appointed a director in 1974. He became deputy chairman in 1983. He subsequently resigned in 2001 but remained a non-executive director until 2011.\n\nOppenheimer was appointed deputy chairman of the then Central Selling Organisation (now Diamond Trading Company) in 1984 and deputy chairman of De Beers Consolidated Mines in 1985. He was appointed chairman of the Diamond Trading Company in 1985. He was chairman of the De Beers Group from 1998 to 2012, at which point he retired when the family stake was sold to Anglo American.\n\nThe Oppenheimer family has directed much of its philanthropic efforts towards preserving the heritage and cultural importance of the Southern African region, as well as to broader community upliftment in the areas of education, health, nature conservation and the arts. Nicky Oppenheimer and his son Jonathan Oppenheimer established the Brenthurst Foundation in 2005 as a way to contribute to the debate around strategies and policies for strengthening Africa's economic performance and enabling inclusive and sustainable development. \nThe family has also long been involved in environmental and conservation issues. The Oppenheimer family partnered with De Beers to establish the Diamond Route in 2006 to maximise the potential of their properties for conservation, research and environmental awareness purposes. The Diamond Route links 8 sites across northern South Africa, stretching from Namaqualand on the west coast, to Kimberley, north to Tswalu in the Kalahari, and to the Brenthurst Gardens in Johannesburg, eastwards to Ezemvelo Nature Reserve and northwards to the Venetia Limpopo Nature Reserve in Limpopo Province. Since 2015 Oppenheimer is also a Rhodes Trustee.\n\nIn 2003, the Technikon Witwatersrand awarded Oppenheimer an honorary doctorate. He received the Presidential Order of Honor (2004) from the former President of Botswana, Festus Mogae, and an honorary fellowship (2009) from the London Business School.\n\nIn 1968, he married Orcillia \"Strilli\" Lasch, daughter of industrial tycoon Helli Lasch; both are Anglican. His father was born Jewish and converted to Anglicanism.\n\n"}
{"id": "7443688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7443688", "title": "Promax Awards", "text": "Promax Awards\n\nThe PromaxBDA Awards (also known as the Promax Awards) honor promotion, design and marketing by a company or individual that is broadcast, published or released in their respective markets.\n\nPromaxBDA sponsors awards competitions at the global level, as well as in North America, Latin America, Europe, the United Kingdom, Africa, Asia, India, and Australia & New Zealand. There is also a competition at the local level in the United States and Canada.\n\nThe awards categories include network TV, TV stations, cable networks, cable systems, network radio, radio stations, syndication distributors, and interactive media. At one point they also included Brandon Tartikoff Award, although it has not been awarded in several years. \n\nWinners in the past have included FX Networks, Showtime, Red Bee Media, HBO, A+E Networks, 4Creative, Les Télécréateurs Paris, Rogers Media and Bell Media Agency.\n\nThe PromaxBDA Global Excellence and North America Awards are handed out each year at PromaxBDA's annual conference in June, which alternates between New York City and Los Angeles.\n\nPromax was established in 1956 as a non-profit association for promotion and marketing professionals working in broadcast media. In 1997, The Broadcast Design Association (BDA) who had partnered with Promax for years on their annual conference, officially joined with Promax.\n\nThe PromaxBDA awards replaced earlier awards presented separately by Promax and the Broadcast Designers Association (BDA). Thousands of PromaxBDA awards have been presented to companies and individuals whose work is judged by a panel of promotion and marketing professionals using three measures: overall creativity, production quality, and results in achieving marketing objectives.\n\nPromaxBDA is a nonprofit professional association based in Los Angeles, with a branch office in Singapore. PromaxBDA describes itself as \"the global association for the entertainment marketing industry, representing thousands of people who create, market, and distribute content in media.\" Founded in the United States in 1956 as the Broadcast Promotion Association (BPA), in 1985, the organization changed its name to Broadcast Promotion & Marketing Executives (BPME). In 1993, the organization again changed its name to PROMAX (a loose acronym for Promotion and Marketing Executives). A merger with the Broadcast Design Association (BDA) in 1997 created the current association: PromaxBDA. The legal name for the group, which has 501(c)6 status from the IRS, is Promax International BPME.\n\nThe association holds conferences, award competitions and prints publications for their members, and present networking opportunities. Steve Kazanjian is the current President & CEO. The Board of Directors is composed of senior entertainment marketing executives, and is currently chaired by Steph Sebbag, CEO of Los Angeles-based creative agency BPG. Previous PromaxBDA chairs include Joe Earley, President, The Jackal Group (formerly COO, Fox Television Group, , Lisa Gregorian, President & CMO, Warner Bros. Television Group, Adam Stotsky, Pres. and GM, E!, and Mike Benson, Head of Marketing, Amazon Studios .\n\nPromaxBDA publishes the Daily Brief newsletter.\n\n"}
{"id": "6254387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6254387", "title": "Rapaport Diamond Report", "text": "Rapaport Diamond Report\n\nThe Rapaport Price List, also known as the \"Rap List\" is the diamond industry standard for the pricing of diamonds.\n\nThe first Rapaport Price List was produced by Martin Rapaport, the Rapaport Diamonds Group founder, in 1978.\n\nThe report is updated every week on Thursday, at 11:59pm EST. The Rapaport Price List is copyrighted and available only to subscribers. Jewelers and diamond merchants use it to set prices for consumers. Consumers should therefore use the report with caution. These prices are used as the basis for standardization and negotiation of diamond prices around the world. Many of the agreed upon prices in diamond trade are come to from discounts based on the Rapaport Price List. \n\nThe report is issued in the form of a table and prices diamonds based on their size, color and clarity. The report provides prices for individual diamonds and not diamonds sold in bulk.\n\nEach price list has four separate grids each one containing information for a different carat size for diamonds. Each grid has the clarity options on the horizontal line and the color options on the vertical line. In order to calculate the price of a diamond according to the Rapaport Price List, you need to know the size, color and clarity of the diamond. The price listed based on this information is in hundreds of dollars per carat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43380350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43380350", "title": "Registrar (law)", "text": "Registrar (law)\n\nThe registrar is a Chief Executive officer of a judicial forum. They are the in charge of the entire registry of the department.\n\nIn common law jurisdictions, registrars are usually judicial officers with the power to hear certain civil matters such as interlocutory applications and assessment of damages. In some jurisdictions they may also hear trials of cases if both parties consent. Registrars are assisted by Deputy-Registrars, who in common law jurisdictions are sometime called masters.\nThe Registrar is the chief administrator of the department, normally they happen to be the Head of the Department. The posts of the Registrar are generally created in judicial forum like tribunals, High Courts and Supreme Court and in educational universities. In judicial forum they manage both administrative and judicial sides in departments under the authority of the president/Chairman of the tribunals and Chief justices of the High Courts and Supreme Court. The Government may also appoint one or more Assistant/Deputy Registrars. They help the Courts, the Registrar, the President/Chairman and the Judges in all their official/ judicial functions. They are exercising delegated powers of the Registrar. They are Guardian of the Seals and responsible for the Court's archives and publications. \n\nThe Registrar is responsible for the administrative and few judicial work as are assigned by the President/ Chairman/Judges of the tribunal/Court. In the event of necessities the Registrar may pass interlocutory orders for staying the proceedings as he deems fit until the appeal is heard by the other courts.\n\nIn other jurisdictions, the Registrar exercises his powers with the change of nomenclature. Normally, the status of the Registrar is equal to that of the District Judge of Higher Judicial Service.\n\nThe court's Registrar, Senior Deputy Registrars and Deputy Registrars serve as Masters of the High Court in civil trials in the Court of First Instance.\n\nThe Supreme Court Registry is currently headed by the Registrar of the Supreme Court. He is assisted by the Deputy Registrar, Senior Assistant Registrars and the Assistant Registrars who perform judicial functions. Certain civil proceedings in the High Court, which are heard in chambers, are dealt with by the Registrars.\n"}
{"id": "600500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=600500", "title": "Scenario planning", "text": "Scenario planning\n\nScenario planning, also called scenario thinking or scenario analysis, is a strategic planning method that some organizations use to make flexible long-term plans. It is in large part an adaptation and generalization of classic methods used by military intelligence.\n\nThe original method was that a group of analysts would generate simulation games for policy makers. The methods combine known facts about the future, such as demographics, geography, military, political, industrial information, and mineral reserves, with key driving forces identified by considering social, technical, economic, environmental, and political (STEEP) trends.\n\nIn business applications, the emphasis on gaming the behavior of opponents was reduced (shifting more toward a game against nature). At Royal Dutch/Shell for example, scenario planning was viewed as changing mindsets about the exogenous part of the world, prior to formulating specific strategies.\n\nScenario planning may involve aspects of systems thinking, specifically the recognition that many factors may combine in complex ways to create sometime surprising futures (due to non-linear feedback loops). The method also allows the inclusion of factors that are difficult to formalize, such as novel insights about the future, deep shifts in values, unprecedented regulations or inventions. Systems thinking used in conjunction with scenario planning leads to plausible scenario storylines because the causal relationship between factors can be demonstrated . In these cases when scenario planning is integrated with a systems thinking approach to scenario development, it is sometimes referred to as dynamic scenarios.\n\nThese combinations and permutations of fact and related social changes are called \"scenarios\". The scenarios usually include plausible, but unexpectedly important situations and problems that exist in some small form in the present day. Any particular scenario is unlikely. However, future studies analysts select scenario features so they are both possible and uncomfortable. Scenario planning help policy-makers and firms to anticipate change, prepare a response and create more robust strategies.\n\nScenarios help a firm to anticipate the impact of different scenarios identify weaknesses. When disclosed years in advance, these weaknesses can be avoided or their impacts reduced more effectively than if similar real-life problems were considered under duress of an emergency. For example, a company may discover that it needs to change contractual terms to protect against a new class of risks, or collect cash reserves to purchase anticipated technologies or equipment. Flexible business continuity plans with \"PREsponse protocols\" help cope with similar operational problems and deliver measurable future value-added.\n\nStrategic military intelligence organizations also construct scenarios. The methods and organizations are almost identical, except that scenario planning is applied to a wider variety of problems than merely military and political problems.\n\nAs in military intelligence, the chief challenge of scenario planning is to find out the real needs of policy-makers, when policy-makers may not themselves know what they need to know, or may not know how to describe the information that they really want.\n\nGood analysts design wargames so that policy makers have great flexibility and freedom to adapt their simulated organisations. Then these simulated organizations are \"stressed\" by the scenarios as a game plays out. Usually, particular groups of facts become more clearly important. These insights enable intelligence organizations to refine and repackage real information more precisely to better serve the policy-makers' real-life needs. Usually the games' simulated time runs hundreds of times faster than real life, so policy-makers experience several years of policy decisions, and their simulated effects, in less than a day.\n\nThis chief value of scenario planning is that it allows policy-makers to make and learn from mistakes without risking career-limiting failures in real life. Further, policymakers can make these mistakes in a safe, unthreatening, game-like environment, while responding to a wide variety of concretely presented situations based on facts. This is an opportunity to \"rehearse the future\", an opportunity that does not present itself in day-to-day operations where every action and decision counts.\n\n\nScenario planning is also extremely popular with military planners. Most states' department of war maintains a continuously updated series of strategic plans to cope with well-known military or strategic problems. These plans are almost always based on scenarios, and often the plans and scenarios are kept up-to-date by war games, sometimes played out with real troops. This process was first carried out (arguably the method was invented by) the Prussian general staff of the mid-19th century.\n\nIn the past, strategic plans have often considered only the \"official future\", which was usually a straight-line graph of current trends carried into the future. Often the trend lines were generated by the accounting department, and lacked discussions of demographics, or qualitative differences in social conditions.\n\nThese simplistic guesses are surprisingly good most of the time, but fail to consider qualitative social changes that can affect a business or government. Scenarios focus on the joint effect of many factors. Scenario planning helps us understand how the various strands of a complex tapestry move if one or more threads are pulled. When you just list possible causes, as for instance in fault tree analysis, you may tend to discount any one factor in isolation. But when you explore the factors together, you realize that certain combinations could magnify each other’s impact or likelihood. For instance, an increased trade deficit may trigger an economic recession, which in turn creates unemployment and reduces domestic production. Paul J. H. Schoemaker offers a strong managerial case for the use of scenario planning in business and had wide impact.\n\nScenarios planning starts by dividing our knowledge into two broad domains: (1) things we believe we know something about and (2) elements we consider uncertain or unknowable. The first component – trends – casts the past forward, recognizing that our world possesses considerable momentum and continuity. For example, we can safely make assumptions about demographic shifts and, perhaps, substitution effects for certain new technologies. The second component – true uncertainties – involve indeterminables such as future interest rates, outcomes of political elections, rates of innovation, fads and fashions in markets, and so on. The art of scenario planning lies in blending the known and the unknown into a limited number of internally consistent views of the future that span a very wide range of possibilities. In project management, this is called the cone of uncertainty.\n\nNumerous organizations have applied scenario planning to a broad range of issues, from relatively simple, tactical decisions to the complex process of strategic planning and vision building. The power of scenario planning for business was originally established by Royal Dutch/Shell, which has used scenarios since the early 1970s as part of a process for generating and evaluating its strategic options. Shell has been consistently better in its oil forecasts than other major oil companies, and saw the overcapacity in the tanker business and Europe’s petrochemicals earlier than its competitors. The approach may have had more impact outside Shell than within, as many others firms and consultancies started to benefit as well from scenario planning. Scenario planning is as much art as science, and prone to a variety of traps (both in process and content) as enumerated by Paul J. H. Schoemaker. More recently scenario planning has been discussed as a tool to improve the strategic agility, by cognitively preparing not only multiple scenarios but also multiple consistent strategies. \n\nMost authors attribute the introduction of scenario planning to Herman Kahn through his work for the US Military in the 1950s at the RAND Corporation where he developed a technique of describing the future in stories as if written by people in the future. He adopted the term \"scenarios\" to describe these stories. In 1961 he founded the Hudson Institute where he expanded his scenario work to social forecasting and public policy. One of his most controversial uses of scenarios was to suggest that a nuclear war could be won. Though Kahn is often cited as the father of scenario planning, at the same time Kahn was developing his methods at RAND, Gaston Berger was developing similar methods at the Centre d’Etudes Prospectives which he founded in France. His method, which he named 'La Prospective', was to develop normative scenarios of the future which were to be used as a guide in formulating public policy. During the mid-1960s various authors from the French and American institutions began to publish scenario planning concepts such as 'La Prospective' by Berger in 1964 and 'The Next Thirty-Three Years' by Kahn and Wiener in 1967. By the 1970s scenario planning was in full swing with a number of institutions now established to provide support to business including the Hudson Foundation, the Stanford Research Institute (now SRI International), and the SEMA Metra Consulting Group in France. Several large companies also began to embrace scenario planning including DHL Express, Dutch Royal Shell and General Electric.\n\nPossibly as a result of these very sophisticated approaches, and of the difficult techniques they employed (which usually demanded the resources of a central planning staff), scenarios earned a reputation for difficulty (and cost) in use. Even so, the theoretical importance of the use of alternative scenarios, to help address the uncertainty implicit in long-range forecasts, was dramatically underlined by the widespread confusion which followed the Oil Shock of 1973. As a result, many of the larger organizations started to use the technique in one form or another. By 1983 Diffenbach reported that 'alternate scenarios' were the third most popular technique for long-range forecasting – used by 68% of the large organizations he surveyed.\nPractical development of scenario forecasting, to guide strategy rather than for the more limited academic uses which had previously been the case, was started by Pierre Wack in 1971 at the Royal Dutch Shell group of companies – and it, too, was given impetus by the Oil Shock two years later. Shell has, since that time, led the commercial world in the use of scenarios – and in the development of more practical techniques to support these. Indeed, as – in common with most forms of long-range forecasting – the use of scenarios has (during the depressed trading conditions of the last decade) reduced to only a handful of private-sector organisations, Shell remains almost alone amongst them in keeping the technique at the forefront of forecasting.\n\nThere has only been anecdotal evidence offered in support of the value of scenarios, even as aids to forecasting; and most of this has come from one company – Shell. In addition, with so few organisations making consistent use of them – and with the timescales involved reaching into decades – it is unlikely that any definitive supporting evidenced will be forthcoming in the foreseeable future. For the same reasons, though, a lack of such proof applies to almost all long-range planning techniques. In the absence of proof, but taking account of Shell's well documented experiences of using it over several decades (where, in the 1990s, its then CEO ascribed its success to its use of such scenarios), can be significant benefit to be obtained from extending the horizons of managers' long-range forecasting in the way that the use of scenarios uniquely does.\n\nIn the 1970s, many energy companies were surprised by both environmentalism and the OPEC cartel, and thereby lost billions of dollars of revenue by mis-investment. The dramatic financial effects of these changes led at least one organization, Royal Dutch Shell, to implement scenario planning. The analysts of this company publicly estimated that this planning process made their company the largest in the world. However other observers of Shell's use of scenario planning have suggested that few if any significant long term business advantages accrued to Shell from the use of scenario methodology. Whilst the intellectual robustness of Shell's long term scenarios was seldom in doubt their actual practical use was seen as being minimal by many senior Shell executives. A Shell insider has commented \"The scenario team were bright and their work was of a very high intellectual level. However neither the high level \"Group scenarios\" nor the country level scenarios produced with operating companies really made much difference when key decisions were being taken\".\n\nThe use of scenarios was audited by Arie de Geus's team in the early 1980s and they found that the decision-making processes following the scenarios were the primary cause of the lack of strategic implementation ), rather than the scenarios themselves. Many practitioners today spend as much time on the decision-making process as on creating the scenarios themselves.\n\nAlthough scenario planning has gained much adherence in industry, its subjective and heuristic nature leaves many academics uncomfortable. How do we know if we have the right scenarios? And how do we go from scenarios to decisions? These concerns are legitimate and scenario planning would gain in academic standing if more research were conducted on its comparative performance and underlying theoretical premises. A collection of chapters by noted scenario planners failed to contain a single reference to an academic source, though this may be because academics have not caught up or do not have the resources to either do or teach scenario planning. In general, there are few academically validated analyses of scenario planning (for a notable exception, see Paul J. H. Schoemaker). The technique was born from practice and its appeal is based more on experience than scientific evidence. Furthermore, significant misconceptions remain about its intent and claims. Above all, scenario planning is a tool for collective learning, reframing perceptions and preserving uncertainty when the latter is pervasive. Too many decision makers want to bet on one future scenario, falling prey to the seductive temptation of trying to predict the future rather than to entertain multiple futures. Another trap is to take the scenarios too literally as though they were static beacons that map out a fixed future. In actuality, their aim is to bound the future but in a flexible way that permits learning and adjustment as the future unfolds.\n\nOne criticism of the two-by-two technique commonly used is that the resulting matrix results in four somewhat arbitrary scenario themes. If other key uncertainties had been selected, it might be argued, very different scenarios could emerge. How true this is depends on whether the matrix is viewed as just a starting point to be superseded by the ensuing blueprint or is considered as the grand architecture that nests everything else. In either case, however, the issue should not be which are the “right” scenarios but rather whether they delineate the range of possible future appropriately. Any tool that tries to simplify a complex picture will introduce distortions, whether it is a geographic map or a set of scenarios. Seldom will complexity decompose naturally into simple states. But it might. Consider, for example, the behavior of water (the molecule HO) which, depending on temperature and pressure, naturally exists in just one of three states: gas, liquid or ice. The art of scenarios is to look for such natural states or points of bifurcation in the behavior of a complex system.\n\nApart from some inherent subjectivity in scenario design, the technique can suffer from various process and content traps. These traps mostly relate to how the process is conducted in organizations (such as team composition, role of facilitators, etc.) as well as the substantive focus of the scenarios (long vs. short term, global vs. regional, incremental vs. paradigm shifting, etc.). One might think of these as merely challenges of implementation, but since the process component is integral to the scenario experience, they can also be viewed as weaknesses of the methodology itself. Limited safeguards exist against political derailing, agenda control, myopia and limited imagination when conducting scenario planning exercises within real organizations. But, to varying extents, all forecasting techniques will suffer from such organizational limitations. The benchmark to use is not perfection, especially when faced with high uncertainty and complexity, or even strict adherence to such normative precepts as procedural invariance and logical consistency, but whether the technique performs better than its rivals. And to answer this question fairly, performance must be carefully specified. It should clearly include some measures of accuracy as well as a cost-benefit analysis that considers the tradeoff between effort and accuracy. In addition, legitimation criteria may be important to consider as well as the ability to refine and improve the approach as more experience is gained.\n\nA third limitation of scenario planning in organizational settings is its weak integration into other planning and forecasting techniques. Most companies have plenty of trouble dealing with just one future, let alone multiple ones. Typically, budgeting and planning systems are predicated on single views of the future, with adjustments made as necessary through variance analysis, contingency planning, rolling budgets, and periodic renegotiations. The weaknesses of these traditional approaches were very evident after the tragic attack of September 11, 2001 when many companies became paralyzed and quite a few just threw away the plan and budget. Their strategies were not future-proof and they lacked organized mechanisms to adjust to external turmoil. In cases of crisis, leadership becomes important but so does some degree of preparedness. Once the scenarios are finished, the real works starts of how to craft flexible strategies and appropriate monitoring systems. Managers need a simple but comprehensive compass to navigate uncertainty from beginning to end. Scenario planning is just one component of a more complete management system. The point is that scenario thinking needs to be integrated with the existing planning and budgeting system, as awkward as this fit may be. The reality is that most organizations do not handle uncertainty well and that researchers have not provided adequate answers about how to plan under conditions of high uncertainty and complexity.\n\nThe basic concepts of the process are relatively simple. In terms of the overall approach to forecasting, they can be divided into three main groups of activities (which are, generally speaking, common to all long range forecasting processes):\nThe first of these groups quite simply comprises the normal environmental analysis. This is almost exactly the same as that which should be undertaken as the first stage of any serious long-range planning. However, the quality of this analysis is especially important in the context of scenario planning. \nThe central part represents the specific techniques – covered here – which differentiate the scenario forecasting process from the others in long-range planning.\nThe final group represents all the subsequent processes which go towards producing the corporate strategy and plans. Again, the requirements are slightly different but in general they follow all the rules of sound long-range planning.\n\nThe part of the overall process which is radically different from most other forms of long-range planning is the central section, the actual production of the scenarios. Even this, though, is relatively simple, at its most basic level. As derived from the approach most commonly used by Shell, it follows six steps:\n\nThe first stage is to examine the results of environmental analysis to determine which are the most important factors that will decide the nature of the future environment within which the organisation operates. These factors are sometimes called 'variables' (because they will vary over the time being investigated, though the terminology may confuse scientists who use it in a more rigorous manner). Users tend to prefer the term 'drivers' (for change), since this terminology is not laden with quasi-scientific connotations and reinforces the participant's commitment to search for those forces which will act to change the future. Whatever the nomenclature, the main requirement is that these will be informed assumptions.\nThis is partly a process of analysis, needed to recognise what these 'forces' might be. However, it is likely that some work on this element will already have taken place during the preceding environmental analysis. By the time the formal scenario planning stage has been reached, the participants may have already decided – probably in their sub-conscious rather than formally – what the main forces are.\nIn the ideal approach, the first stage should be to carefully decide the overall assumptions on which the scenarios will be based. Only then, as a second stage, should the various drivers be specifically defined. Participants, though, seem to have problems in separating these stages.\nPerhaps the most difficult aspect though, is freeing the participants from the preconceptions they take into the process with them. In particular, most participants will want to look at the medium term, five to ten years ahead rather than the required longer-term, ten or more years ahead. However, a time horizon of anything less than ten years often leads participants to extrapolate from present trends, rather than consider the alternatives which might face them. When, however, they are asked to consider timescales in excess of ten years they almost all seem to accept the logic of the scenario planning process, and no longer fall back on that of extrapolation. There is a similar problem with expanding participants horizons to include the whole external environment.\n\nBrainstorming\nIn any case, the brainstorming which should then take place, to ensure that the list is complete, may unearth more variables – and, in particular, the combination of factors may suggest yet others. \nA very simple technique which is especially useful at this – brainstorming – stage, and in general for handling scenario planning debates is derived from use in Shell where this type of approach is often used. An especially easy approach, it only requires a conference room with a bare wall and copious supplies of 3M Post-It Notes.\nThe six to ten people ideally taking part in such face-to-face debates should be in a conference room environment which is isolated from outside interruptions. The only special requirement is that the conference room has at least one clear wall on which Post-It notes will stick. At the start of the meeting itself, any topics which have already been identified during the environmental analysis stage are written (preferably with a thick magic marker, so they can be read from a distance) on separate Post-It Notes. These Post-It Notes are then, at least in theory, randomly placed on the wall. In practice, even at this early stage the participants will want to cluster them in groups which seem to make sense. The only requirement (which is why Post-It Notes are ideal for this approach) is that there is no bar to taking them off again and moving them to a new cluster.\n\nA similar technique – using 5\" by 3\" index cards – has also been described (as the 'Snowball Technique'), by Backoff and Nutt, for grouping and evaluating ideas in general.\nAs in any form of brainstorming, the initial ideas almost invariably stimulate others. Indeed, everyone should be encouraged to add their own Post-It Notes to those on the wall. However it differs from the 'rigorous' form described in 'creative thinking' texts, in that it is much slower paced and the ideas are discussed immediately. In practice, as many ideas may be removed, as not being relevant, as are added. Even so, it follows many of the same rules as normal brainstorming and typically lasts the same length of time – say, an hour or so only.\nIt is important that all the participants feel they 'own' the wall – and are encouraged to move the notes around themselves. The result is a very powerful form of creative decision-making for groups, which is applicable to a wide range of situations (but is especially powerful in the context of scenario planning). It also offers a very good introduction for those who are coming to the scenario process for the first time. Since the workings are largely self-evident, participants very quickly come to understand exactly what is involved. \nImportant and uncertain\nThis step is, though, also one of selection – since only the most important factors will justify a place in the scenarios. The 80:20 Rule here means that, at the end of the process, management's attention must be focused on a limited number of most important issues. Experience has proved that offering a wider range of topics merely allows them to select those few which interest them, and not necessarily those which are most important to the organisation.\nIn addition, as scenarios are a technique for presenting alternative futures, the factors to be included must be genuinely 'variable'. They should be subject to significant alternative outcomes. Factors whose outcome is predictable, but important, should be spelled out in the introduction to the scenarios (since they cannot be ignored). The Important Uncertainties Matrix, as reported by Kees van der Heijden of Shell, is a useful check at this stage.\nAt this point it is also worth pointing out that a great virtue of scenarios is that they can accommodate the input from any other form of forecasting. They may use figures, diagrams or words in any combination. No other form of forecasting offers this flexibility.\n\nThe next step is to link these drivers together to provide a meaningful framework. This may be obvious, where some of the factors are clearly related to each other in one way or another. For instance, a technological factor may lead to market changes, but may be constrained by legislative factors. On the other hand, some of the 'links' (or at least the 'groupings') may need to be artificial at this stage. At a later stage more meaningful links may be found, or the factors may then be rejected from the scenarios. In the most theoretical approaches to the subject, probabilities are attached to the event strings. This is difficult to achieve, however, and generally adds little – except complexity – to the outcomes.\nThis is probably the most (conceptually) difficult step. It is where managers' 'intuition' – their ability to make sense of complex patterns of 'soft' data which more rigorous analysis would be unable to handle – plays an important role. There are, however, a range of techniques which can help; and again the Post-It-Notes approach is especially useful:\nThus, the participants try to arrange the drivers, which have emerged from the first stage, into groups which seem to make sense to them. Initially there may be many small groups. The intention should, therefore, be to gradually merge these (often having to reform them from new combinations of drivers to make these bigger groups work). The aim of this stage is eventually to make 6–8 larger groupings; 'mini-scenarios'. Here the Post-It Notes may be moved dozens of times over the length – perhaps several hours or more – of each meeting. While this process is taking place the participants will probably want to add new topics – so more Post-It Notes are added to the wall. In the opposite direction, the unimportant ones are removed (possibly to be grouped, again as an 'audit trail' on another wall). More important, the 'certain' topics are also removed from the main area of debate – in this case they must be grouped in clearly labelled area of the main wall.\nAs the clusters – the 'mini-scenarios' – emerge, the associated notes may be stuck to each other rather than individually to the wall; which makes it easier to move the clusters around (and is a considerable help during the final, demanding stage to reducing the scenarios to two or three).\nThe great benefit of using Post-It Notes is that there is no bar to participants changing their minds. If they want to rearrange the groups – or simply to go back (iterate) to an earlier stage – then they strip them off and put them in their new position.\n\nThe outcome of the previous step is usually between seven and nine logical groupings of drivers. This is usually easy to achieve. The 'natural' reason for this may be that it represents some form of limit as to what participants can visualise. \nHaving placed the factors in these groups, the next action is to work out, very approximately at this stage, what is the connection between them. What does each group of factors represent?\n\nThe main action, at this next stage, is to reduce the seven to nine mini-scenarios/groupings detected at the previous stage to two or three larger scenarios. The challenge in practice seems to come down to finding just two or three 'containers' into which all the topics can be sensibly fitted. This usually requires a considerable amount of debate – but in the process it typically generates as much light as it does heat. Indeed, the demanding process of developing these basic scenario frameworks often, by itself, produces fundamental insights into what are the really important (perhaps life and death) issues affecting the organisation. During this extended debate – and even before it is summarised in the final reports – the participants come to understand, by their own involvement in the debate, what the most important drivers for change may be, and (perhaps even more important) what their peers think they are. Based on this intimate understanding, they are well prepared to cope with such changes – reacting almost instinctively – when they actually do happen; even without recourse to the formal reports which are eventually produced!\nThere is no theoretical reason for reducing to just two or three scenarios, only a practical one. It has been found that the managers who will be asked to use the final scenarios can only cope effectively with a maximum of three versions! Shell started, more than three decades ago, by building half a dozen or more scenarios – but found that the outcome was that their managers selected just one of these to concentrate on. As a result, the planners reduced the number to three, which managers could handle easily but could no longer so easily justify the selection of only one! This is the number now recommended most frequently in most of the literature. \nComplementary scenarios\nAs used by Shell, and as favoured by a number of the academics, two scenarios should be complementary; the reason being that this helps avoid managers 'choosing' just one, 'preferred', scenario – and lapsing once more into single-track forecasting (negating the benefits of using 'alternative' scenarios to allow for alternative, uncertain futures). This is, however, a potentially difficult concept to grasp, where managers are used to looking for opposites; a good and a bad scenario, say, or an optimistic one versus a pessimistic one – and indeed this is the approach (for small businesses) advocated by Foster. In the Shell approach, the two scenarios are required to be equally likely, and between them to cover all the 'event strings'/drivers. Ideally they should not be obvious opposites, which might once again bias their acceptance by users, so the choice of 'neutral' titles is important. For example, Shell's two scenarios at the beginning of the 1990s were titled 'Sustainable World' and 'Global Mercantilism'[xv]. In practice, we found that this requirement, much to our surprise, posed few problems for the great majority, 85%, of those in the survey; who easily produced 'balanced' scenarios. The remaining 15% mainly fell into the expected trap of 'good versus bad'. We have found that our own relatively complex (OBS) scenarios can also be made complementary to each other; without any great effort needed from the teams involved; and the resulting two scenarios are both developed further by all involved, without unnecessary focusing on one or the other.\nTesting\nHaving grouped the factors into these two scenarios, the next step is to test them, again, for viability. Do they make sense to the participants? This may be in terms of logical analysis, but it may also be in terms of intuitive 'gut-feel'. Once more, intuition often may offer a useful – if academically less respectable – vehicle for reacting to the complex and ill-defined issues typically involved. If the scenarios do not intuitively 'hang together', why not? The usual problem is that one or more of the assumptions turns out to be unrealistic in terms of how the participants see their world. If this is the case then you need to return to the first step – the whole scenario planning process is above all an iterative one (returning to its beginnings a number of times until the final outcome makes the best sense).\n\nThe scenarios are then 'written up' in the most suitable form. The flexibility of this step often confuses participants, for they are used to forecasting processes which have a fixed format. The rule, though, is that you should produce the scenarios in the form most suitable for use by the managers who are going to base their strategy on them. Less obviously, the managers who are going to implement this strategy should also be taken into account. They will also be exposed to the scenarios, and will need to believe in these. This is essentially a 'marketing' decision, since it will be very necessary to 'sell' the final results to the users. On the other hand, a not inconsiderable consideration may be to use the form the author also finds most comfortable. If the form is alien to him or her the chances are that the resulting scenarios will carry little conviction when it comes to the 'sale'. \nMost scenarios will, perhaps, be written in word form (almost as a series of alternative essays about the future); especially where they will almost inevitably be qualitative which is hardly surprising where managers, and their audience, will probably use this in their day to day communications. Some, though use an expanded series of lists and some enliven their reports by adding some fictional 'character' to the material – perhaps taking literally the idea that they are stories about the future – though they are still clearly intended to be factual. On the other hand, they may include numeric data and/or diagrams – as those of Shell do (and in the process gain by the acid test of more measurable 'predictions').\n\nThe final stage of the process is to examine these scenarios to determine what are the most critical outcomes; the 'branching points' relating to the 'issues' which will have the greatest impact (potentially generating 'crises') on the future of the organisation. The subsequent strategy will have to address these – since the normal approach to strategy deriving from scenarios is one which aims to minimise risk by being 'robust' (that is it will safely cope with all the alternative outcomes of these 'life and death' issues) rather than aiming for performance (profit) maximisation by gambling on one outcome.\n\nIt is important to note that scenarios may be used in a number of ways:\na) Containers for the drivers/event strings\nMost basically, they are a logical device, an artificial framework, for presenting the individual factors/topics (or coherent groups of these) so that these are made easily available for managers' use – as useful ideas about future developments in their own right – without reference to the rest of the scenario. It should be stressed that no factors should be dropped, or even given lower priority, as a result of producing the scenarios. In this context, which scenario contains which topic (driver), or issue about the future, is irrelevant. \nb) Tests for consistency\nAt every stage it is necessary to iterate, to check that the contents are viable and make any necessary changes to ensure that they are; here the main test is to see if the scenarios seem to be internally consistent – if they are not then the writer must loop back to earlier stages to correct the problem. Though it has been mentioned previously, it is important to stress once again that scenario building is ideally an iterative process. It usually does not just happen in one meeting – though even one attempt is better than none – but takes place over a number of meetings as the participants gradually refine their ideas.\nc) Positive perspectives\nPerhaps the main benefit deriving from scenarios, however, comes from the alternative 'flavors' of the future their different perspectives offer. It is a common experience, when the scenarios finally emerge, for the participants to be startled by the insight they offer – as to what the general shape of the future might be – at this stage it no longer is a theoretical exercise but becomes a genuine framework (or rather set of alternative frameworks) for dealing with that.\n\nScenario planning differs from contingency planning, sensitivity analysis and computer simulations.\n\nContingency planning is a \"What if\" tool, that only takes into account one uncertainty. However, scenario planning considers combinations of uncertainties in each scenario. Planners also try to select especially plausible but uncomfortable combinations of social developments.\n\nSensitivity analysis analyzes changes in one variable only, which is useful for simple changes, while scenario planning tries to expose policy makers to significant interactions of major variables.\n\nWhile scenario planning can benefit from computer simulations, scenario planning is less formalized, and can be used to make plans for qualitative patterns that show up in a wide variety of simulated events.\n\nDuring the past 5 years, computer supported Morphological Analysis has been employed as aid in scenario development by the Swedish Defence Research Agency in Stockholm. This method makes it possible to create a multi-variable morphological field which can be treated as an inference model – thus integrating scenario planning techniques with contingency analysis and sensitivity analysis.\n\nScenario planning concerns planning based on the systematic examination of the future by picturing plausible and consistent images thereof. Delphi, in turn, attempts to develop systematically expert opinion consensus concerning future developments and events. It is a judgmental forecasting procedure in form of an anonymous, written, multi-stage survey process, where feedback of group opinion is provided after each round.\n\nNumerous researchers have stressed that both approaches are best suited to be combined. Kinkel et al. (2006) recently reported on their experiences with both Delphi-scenarios and scenario-Delphis. The authors found that, due to their process similarity, the two methodologies can be easily combined. Generally speaking, the output of the different phases of the Delphi method can be used as input for the scenario method and vice versa. A combination makes a realization of the benefits of both tools possible. In practice, usually one of the two tools is considered the dominant methodology and the other one is integrated at some stage. In fact, the authors found that in either case the combination of the methodologies adds significant value to futures projects.\n\nThe variant that is most often found in practice is the integration of the Delphi method into the scenario process (see e.g. Rikkonen, 2005; von der Gracht, 2007; Transportation & Logistics 2030 – How will supply chains evolve in an energy constrained and low-carbon world; Transportation & Logistics 2030 – Transport infrastructure – Engine or hand brakes for global supply chains?; Future of Logistics – Global Scenarios 2025). Authors refer to this type as Delphi-scenario (writing), expert-based scenarios, or Delphi panel derived scenarios. Von der Gracht (2010) is a scientifically valid example of this method. Since scenario planning is “information hungry”, Delphi research can deliver valuable input for the process. There are various types of information output of Delphi that can be used as input for scenario planning. Researchers can, for example, identify relevant events or developments and, based on expert opinion, assign probabilities to them. Moreover, expert comments and arguments provide deeper insights into relationships of factors that can, in turn, be integrated into scenarios afterwards. Also, Delphi helps to identify extreme opinions and dissent among the experts. Such controversial topics are particularly suited for extreme scenarios or wildcards.\n\nIn his doctoral thesis, Rikkonen (2005) examined the utilization of Delphi techniques in scenario planning and, concretely, in construction of scenarios. The author comes to the conclusion that the Delphi technique has instrumental value in providing different alternative futures and the argumentation of scenarios. It is therefore recommended to use Delphi in order to make the scenarios more profound and to create confidence in scenario planning. Further benefits lie in the simplification of the scenario writing process and the deep understanding of the interrelations between the forecast items and social factors.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "104957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104957", "title": "Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation", "text": "Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation\n\nThe Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation is a nonprofit organization founded in 1937 by philanthropist Solomon R. Guggenheim and his long-time art advisor, artist Hilla von Rebay. The foundation is a leading institution for the collection, preservation, and research of modern and contemporary art and operates several museums around the world. The first museum established by the foundation was The Museum of Non-Objective Painting, in New York City. This became The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in 1952, and the foundation moved the collection into its first permanent museum building, in New York City, in 1959. The foundation next opened the Peggy Guggenheim Collection in Venice, Italy, in 1980. Its international network of museums expanded in 1997 to include the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao in Bilbao, Spain, and it expects to open a new museum, Guggenheim Abu Dhabi, in the United Arab Emirates in 2017.\n\nThe mission of the foundation is \"to promote the understanding and appreciation of art, architecture, and other manifestations of visual culture, primarily of the modern and contemporary periods, and to collect, conserve, and study\" modern and contemporary art. The Foundation seeks, in its constituent museums, to unite distinguished architecture and artworks. The foundation's first permanent museum, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, is housed in a modern spiral building designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, and the Guggenheim Bilbao was designed by Frank Gehry. Both of these innovative designs received wide press and critical attention. The Peggy Guggenheim Collection is housed in an 18th-century Italian palace, the Palazzo Venier dei Leoni, on the Grand Canal.\n\nThe permanent collection of the foundation is based primarily on nine private collections: Solomon R. Guggenheim's collection of non-objective paintings; Karl Nierendorf's collection of German expressionism and early abstract expressionism; Katherine S. Dreier's gift of paintings and sculptures; Peggy Guggenheim's collection, concentrating on abstraction and surrealism; Justin K. and Hilde Thannhauser's collection of impressionist, post-impressionist, and early modern masterpieces; part of Hilla von Rebay's collection; Giuseppe Panza di Biumo's holdings of American minimalist, post-minimalist, environmental and conceptual art of the 1960s and 1970s; a collection of photographs and mixed media from the Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation; and the Bohen Foundation's collection of film, video, photography and new media. The foundation's collections have expanded greatly through eight decades and include every major movement of 20th- and 21st-century art. Its directors and curators have attempted to form a single collection that is not encyclopedic, but rather based on their unique visions. The collection has grown in scope to include new media and performance art, and the foundation has entered into collaborations with YouTube and BMW.\n\nSolomon R. Guggenheim, a member of a wealthy mining family, began collecting works of the old masters in the 1890s. He retired from his business in 1919 to devote more time to art collecting. In 1926, at age 66, he met artist Hilla von Rebay, who was commissioned by Guggenheim's wife, Irene Rothschild, to paint his portrait. Rebay introduced him to European avant-garde art, in particular abstract art that she felt had a spiritual and utopian aspect (non-objective art). Guggenheim completely changed his collecting strategy. In 1930, the two visited Wassily Kandinsky's studio in Dessau, Germany, and Guggenheim began to purchase Kandinsky's work. The same year, Guggenheim began to display the collection to the public at his apartment in the Plaza Hotel in New York City. Guggenheim's purchases continued with the works of Rudolf Bauer, Fernand Léger, Robert Delaunay, and great artists who were not of the non-objective school, such as Marc Chagall, Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Pablo Picasso and László Moholy-Nagy.\nIn 1937, Guggenheim established the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation to foster the appreciation of modern art. The foundation's first venue for the display of art was called the \"Museum of Non-Objective Painting\". It opened in 1939 under the direction of Rebay, its first curator, in a former automobile showroom at East 54th Street in midtown Manhattan. This moved, in 1947, to another rented space at 1071 Fifth Avenue. Under Rebay's guidance, Guggenheim sought to include in the collection the most important examples of non-objective art available at the time, such as Kandinsky's \"Composition 8\" (1923), Léger's \"Contrast of Forms\" (1913) and Delaunay's \"Simultaneous Windows\" (2nd Motif, 1st Part)\" (1912).\n\nBy the early 1940s, the foundation had accumulated such a large collection of avant-garde paintings that the need for a permanent building to house the art collection had become apparent. In 1943, Guggenheim and Rebay commissioned architect Frank Lloyd Wright to design the museum building. Rebay conceived of the space as a \"temple of the spirit\" that would facilitate a new way of looking at the modern pieces in the collection. In 1948, the collection was greatly expanded through the purchase of art dealer Karl Nierendorf's estate of some 730 objects, notably German expressionist paintings. By that time, the foundation's collection included a broad spectrum of expressionist and surrealist works, including paintings by Paul Klee, Oskar Kokoschka and Joan Miró. Guggenheim died in 1949, and the museum was renamed the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in 1952. The foundation expanded its display activities with a series of traveling exhibitions.\n\nAfter Guggenheim's death, members of the Guggenheim family who sat on the foundation's board of directors had personal and philosophical differences with Rebay, and in 1952 she resigned as director of the museum. Nevertheless, she left a portion of her personal collection to the foundation in her will, including works by Kandinsky, Klee, Alexander Calder, Gleizes, Piet Mondrian and Kurt Schwitters.\n\nIn 1953, the foundation's collecting boundaries extended even further under its new director, James Johnson Sweeney. Sweeney rejected Rebay's dismissal of \"objective\" painting and sculpture, and he soon acquired Constantin Brâncuși's \"Adam and Eve\" (1921), followed by works of other modernist sculptors, including Jean Arp, Alexander Calder, Alberto Giacometti and David Smith. Sweeney reached beyond the 20th century to acquire Paul Cézanne's \"Man with Crossed Arms\" (c. 1899). In 1953, the foundation received a gift of 28 important works from the Estate of Katherine S. Dreier, a founder of America's first collection to be called a modern art museum, the Société Anonyme. Dreier had been a colleague of Rebay's. The works included \"Little French Girl\" (1914–18) by Brâncuși, an untitled still life (1916) by Juan Gris, a bronze sculpture (1919) by Alexander Archipenko and three collages (1919–21) by German Hanoverian Dadaist Schwitters. It also included works by Calder, Marcel Duchamp, El Lissitzky and Mondrian. Among others, Sweeney also acquired the works of Alberto Giacometti, David Hayes, Willem de Kooning and Jackson Pollock. He also established the Guggenheim International Awards in 1956. Sweeney oversaw the last half dozen years of the construction of the museum building, during which time he had an antagonistic relationship with Frank Lloyd Wright, especially regarding the building's lighting issues.\n\nThe distinctive cylindrical building, wider at the top than the bottom, with a spiral ramp climbing gently from ground level to the skylight at the top, turned out to be Wright's last major work, as the architect died six months before its opening. The building opened in October 1959 to large crowds and instantly polarized architecture critics, though today it is widely praised. Some of the criticism focused on the idea that the building overshadows the artworks displayed inside, and that it is difficult to properly hang paintings in the shallow, windowless, concave exhibition niches that surround the central spiral. Prior to its opening, twenty-one artists signed a letter protesting the display of their work in such a space. Upon opening, the museum received a largely favorable response from the public, despite the early misgivings: \"overall Wright's design was, and still is, admired for being highly personal and inviting\".\n\nThomas M. Messer succeeded Sweeney as director of the museum (but not the foundation) in 1961 and stayed for 27 years, the longest tenure of any of the city's major arts institutions' directors. When Messer took over, the museum's ability to present art at all was still in doubt due to the challenges presented by continuous spiral ramp gallery that is both tilted and has curved walls. Almost immediately, in 1962, he took a risk putting on a large exhibition that combined the Guggenheim's paintings with sculptures on loan from the Hirshhorn Museum. Three-dimensional sculpture, in particular, raised \"the problem of installing such a show in a museum bearing so close a resemblance to the circular geography of hell\", where any vertical object appears tilted in a \"drunken lurch\" because the slope of the floor and the curvature of the walls could combine to produce vexing optical illusions.\n\nIt turned out that the combination could work well in the Guggenheim's space, but, Messer recalled that at the time, \"I was scared. I half felt that this would be my last exhibition.\" Messer had the foresight to prepare by staging a smaller sculpture exhibition the previous year, in which he discovered how to compensate for the space's weird geometry by constructing special plinths at a particular angle, so the pieces were not at a true vertical yet appeared to be so. In the earlier sculpture show, this trick proved impossible for one piece, an Alexander Calder mobile whose wire inevitably hung at a true plumb vertical, \"suggesting hallucination\" in the disorienting context of the tilted floor.\n\nThe next year, Messer acquired a private collection from art dealer Justin K. Thannhauser for the foundation's permanent collection. These 73 works include Impressionist, Post-Impressionist and French modern masterpieces, including important works by Paul Gauguin, Édouard Manet, Camille Pissarro, Vincent van Gogh and 32 works by Pablo Picasso.\n\nPeggy Guggenheim, Solomon's niece, collected and displayed art beginning in 1938. At Messer's urging, she donated her art collection and home in Venice, the \"Palazzo Venier dei Leoni\", to the foundation in 1976. After her death in 1979, the collection of more than 300 works was re-opened to the public as the Peggy Guggenheim Collection in 1980 by the foundation, which was then under the direction of Peter Lawson-Johnston. It includes early 20th century works of prominent American modernists and Italian futurists. Pieces in the collection embrace Cubism, Surrealism and Abstract expressionism. Some of the notable artists are Picasso, Dalí, Magritte, Brâncuși (including a sculpture from the \"Bird in Space\" series), eleven works by Pollock, Braque, Duchamp, Léger, Severini, Picabia, de Chirico, Mondrian, Kandinsky, Miró, Giacometti, Klee, Gorky, Calder, Max Ernst and Peggy Guggenheim's daughter, Pegeen Vail Guggenheim.\n\nSince 1985, the United States has selected the foundation to operate the U.S. Pavilion of the Venice Biennale, an exhibition held every other summer. In 1986, the foundation purchased the Palladian-style pavilion, built in 1930.\n\nThomas Krens, director of the foundation from 1988 to 2008, led a rapid expansion of the foundation's collections. In 1991, he broadened the foundation's holdings by acquiring the Panza Collection. Assembled by Count Giuseppe di Biumo and his wife, Giovanna, the Panza Collection includes examples of Minimalist sculptures by Carl Andre, Dan Flavin and Donald Judd, and Minimalist paintings by Robert Mangold, Brice Marden and Robert Ryman, as well as an array of Post-Minimal, Conceptual, and perceptual art by Robert Morris, Richard Serra, James Turrell, Lawrence Weiner and others, notably American examples of the 1960s and 1970s. In 1992, the Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation gifted 200 of his best photographs to the foundation. The works spanned his entire output, from his early collages, Polaroids, portraits of celebrities, self-portraits, male and female nudes, flowers and statues. It also featured mixed-media constructions and included his well-known 1998 \"Self-Portrait\". The acquisition initiated the foundation's photography exhibition program.\n\nAlso in 1992, the New York museum building's exhibition and other space was expanded by the addition of an adjoining rectangular tower, taller than the original spiral, and a renovation of the original building. The same year, the foundation opened a small Guggenheim Museum SoHo in the SoHo neighborhood of downtown Manhattan. This space was kept after the main museum was re-opened, but it closed in 2002 due to an economic downturn. To finance these moves, controversially, the foundation sold works by Kandinsky, Chagall and Modigliani to raise $47 million, drawing considerable criticism for trading masters for \"trendy\" latecomers. In \"The New York Times\", critic Michael Kimmelman wrote that the sales \"stretched the accepted rules of deaccessioning further than many American institutions have been willing to do.\" Krens defended the action as consistent with the museum's principles, including expanding its international collection and building its \"postwar collection to the strength of our pre-war holdings\" and pointed out that such sales are a regular practice by museums.\nOne of Krens's most significant initiatives was to expand the foundation's international presence. The Guggenheim Museum Bilbao opened in 1997. Designed by Frank Gehry, the titanium, glass and limestone Guggenheim Bilbao is a centerpiece of the revitalization of the Basque city of Bilbao, Spain. The building was greeted with glowing praise from architecture critics. The Basque government funded the construction, while the Foundation purchased the artworks and manages the facility. The museum's permanent collection includes works by modern and contemporary Basque and Spanish artists like Eduardo Chillida, Juan Munoz and Antonio Saura, as well as works from the foundation, and it has organized various exhibitions curated by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York.\n\nAlso in 1997, the foundation opened a small gallery in the Unter den Linden area of Berlin, Germany, as the Deutsche Guggenheim, in cooperation with the Deutsche Bank. The Deutsche Guggenheim had four exhibitions each year, complemented by educational programming, and it annually commissioned one, or occasionally two, new artworks or series by contemporary artists, which were then displayed at the museum in a special exhibition. After 14 years of operation, Deutsche Guggenheim closed at the end of 2012.\n\nUnder Krens, the foundation mounted some of its most popular exhibitions: \"Africa: The Art of a Continent\" in 1996; \"China: 5,000 Years\" in 1998, \"Brazil: Body & Soul\" in 2001; and \"The Aztec Empire\" in 2004. It has shown unusual exhibitions on occasion, for example commercial art installations of Giorgio Armani suits and motorcycles. \"The New Criterion\"'s Hilton Kramer condemned both \"The Art of the Motorcycle\" and the retrospective of the work of fashion designer Armani. Others disagreed. A 2009 retrospective of Frank Lloyd Wright at the original building in New York showcased the architect on the 50th anniversary of the opening of the building and was the museum's most popular exhibit since it began keeping such attendance records in 1992.\nIn 2001, the foundation opened two new museums in Las Vegas, Guggenheim Las Vegas and Guggenheim Hermitage Museum, both designed by architect Rem Koolhaas. The museums showcased highlights of the collections, respectively, of the foundation and the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg, Russia. The first and larger of the two hosted one exhibition: \"The Art of the Motorcycle\", before closing in 2003. The latter, held ten exhibitions of masterworks by leading artists from the last six centuries, including Van Eyck, Titian, Velázquez, Van Gogh, Picasso, Pollock and Lichtenstein. The Guggenheim Hermitage Museum closed in 2008.\n\nIn 2001 the foundation also established the Sackler Center for Arts Education on the campus of the original New York building. The same year, the foundation received a gift of the large collection of the Bohen Foundation, which, for two decades, commissioned new works of art with an emphasis on film, video, photography and new media. Artists included in the collection are Pierre Huyghe, Sophie Calle and Jac Leirner. The foundation planned for a large Guggenheim museum on the waterfront in lower Manhattan, and it engaged Frank Gehry as the architect. His essentially complete designs for the building were showcased in 2001 at the Fifth Avenue museum, but these plans were disrupted by the economic downturn of the early 2000s and the September 11, 2001 attacks, which prompted reconsideration of any plans in lower Manhattan. Other projects in Rio de Janeiro, Vilnius, Salzburg, Guadalajara and Taichung were also considered but not completed.\n\nOn January 19, 2005, the philanthropist Peter B. Lewis resigned from his position as chairman of the foundation, expressing his opposition to Krens' plans for further global expansion of the Guggenheim museums. Lewis had been the largest donor in the history of the Guggenheim. Tensions continued, however, and on February 27, 2008, Krens resigned from his position in the foundation. He has remained, however, as an advisor for international affairs. Over his two decades at the head of the foundation, Krens was criticized not only for the deaccessioning of older works of the museum but for both his businesslike style and perceived populism and commercialization. One writer commented, \"Krens has been both praised and vilified for turning what was once a small New York institution into a worldwide brand, creating the first truly multinational arts institution. ... Krens transformed the Guggenheim into one of the best-known brand name in the arts.\"\nRichard Armstrong became the fifth director of the foundation on November 4, 2008. He had been director of the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania for 12 years, where he had also served as chief curator and curator of contemporary art. In addition to its permanent collections, which continue to grow, the foundation administers loan exhibitions and co-organizes exhibitions with other museums to foster public outreach.\n\nIn 2006, Abu Dhabi, the capital of the United Arab Emirates, announced an agreement with the Guggenheim Foundation to build a new museum, \"Guggenheim Abu Dhabi\". Gehry designed the structure, which will, if completed, be the foundation's largest by far. It has begun construction on the northwest tip of Saadiyat Island, along with a performing arts center, the Zayed National Museum and a branch of the Louvre. The museum is expected to \"create an exhibition space intended to turn this once-sleepy desert city along the Persian Gulf into an international arts capital and tourist destination.\" The completion date has been pushed back repeatedly, and the museum is now expected to open in 2017 at the earliest. The museum is expected to house modern and contemporary collections that will focus on Middle-Eastern contemporary art and to display special exhibitions from the foundation's main collection.\n\nIn 2011, the city of Helsinki, Finland, commissioned the foundation to study the feasibility of constructing a museum there. The feasibility study recommended building the museum in Helsinki's South Harbor. In 2012, the proposal was rejected by the city board \"over concerns about the cost and a proposed merger with the Helsinki Art Museum\". In 2013, the foundation made a revised proposal that provideed that the project's architect would be chosen through an international competition. The proposal anticipated that the Guggenheim's licensing fee would be funded by private sources, with decreased operating costs and increased revenues; one journalist called the Foundation's estimates \"speculative at best\". In 2014, the city council approved an international architecture competition to solicit designs for the museum, and the following year, a design was chosen. In 2016 the Helsinki city council voted to reject the plan.\n\nThe foundation has long sought, in its constituent museums, to unite its artworks with distinguished architecture. In 1943, Hilla von Rebay and Solomon R. Guggenheim commissioned Frank Lloyd Wright to build the foundation's first permanent museum. Rebay wrote to Wright that \"each of these great masterpieces should be organized into space, and only you ... would test the possibilities to do so. … I want a temple of spirit, a monument!\" The resultant achievement, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, in New York City, testifies not only to Wright's architectural genius, but also to the adventurous spirit that characterized its founders. The critic Paul Goldberger later wrote that, before Wright's modernist building, \"there were only two common models for museum design: Beaux-arts Palace ... and the International Style Pavilion.\" Goldberger thought the building a catalyst for change, making it \"socially and culturally acceptable for an architect to design a highly expressive, intensely personal museum. In this sense almost every museum of our time is a child of the Guggenheim.\"\n\nBefore settling on the present site for the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum on Fifth Avenue between 88th and 89th Streets, Wright, Rebay and Guggenheim considered numerous locations in Manhattan, as well as in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, overlooking the Hudson River. Guggenheim felt that the site's proximity to Central Park was important; the park afforded relief from the noise, congestion and concrete of the city. Nature also provided the museum with inspiration. The building embodies Wright's attempts \"to render the inherent plasticity of organic forms in architecture.\" The Guggenheim was to be the only museum designed by Wright. The city location required Wright to design the building in a vertical rather than a horizontal form, far different from his earlier, rural works.\n\nWright's original concept was called an inverted \"ziggurat\", because it resembled the steep steps on the ziggurats built in ancient Mesopotamia. His design dispensed with the conventional approach to museum layout, in which visitors are led through a series of interconnected rooms and forced to retrace their steps when exiting. Wright's plan was for the museum guests to ride to the top of the building by elevator, to descend at a leisurely pace along the gentle slope of the continuous ramp, and to view the atrium of the building as the last work of art. The open rotunda afforded viewers the unique possibility of seeing several bays of work on different levels simultaneously and even to interact with guests on other levels. The spiral design recalled a nautilus shell, with continuous spaces flowing freely one into another.\n\nEven as it embraced nature, Wright's design also expresses his take on modernist architecture's rigid geometry. Wright ascribed a symbolic meaning to the building's shapes. He explained, \"these geometric forms suggest certain human ideas, moods, sentiments – as for instance: the circle, infinity; the triangle, structural unity; the spiral, organic progress; the square, integrity.\" Forms echo one another throughout: oval-shaped columns, for example, reiterate the geometry of the fountain. Circularity is the leitmotif, from the rotunda to the inlaid design of the terrazzo floors.\nWright's vision took 16 years to be fulfilled. Set in sharp contrast to typically rectangular Manhattan buildings that surround it, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum building opened in October 1959. Even before it opened, the design polarized architecture critics. Some believed that the building would overshadow the museum's artworks. \"On the contrary\", wrote the architect, the design makes \"the building and the painting an uninterrupted, beautiful symphony such as never existed in the World of Art before.\" Other critics, and many artists, felt that it is awkward to properly hang paintings in the shallow, windowless, concave exhibition niches that surround the central spiral. The building, nevertheless, became widely praised and inspired many other architects.\n\nThe building's surface was made out of concrete to reduce the cost, inferior to the stone finish that Wright had wanted. The small rotunda (or \"Monitor building\", as Wright called it) next to the large rotunda was intended to house apartments for Rebay and Guggenheim but instead became offices and storage space. In 1965, the second floor of the Monitor building was renovated to display the museum's growing permanent collection, and with the restoration of the museum in 1990–92, it was turned over entirely to exhibition space and christened the Thannhauser Building, in honor of one of the most important bequests to the museum. Wright's original plan for an adjoining tower, artists' studios and apartments went unrealized, largely for financial reasons. However, as part of the restoration, architects Gwathmey Siegel and Associates analyzed Wright's original sketches to design the rectangular 10-story limestone tower, that stands behind, and taller than, the original spiral building (replacing a much smaller structure), which has four additional exhibition galleries with flat walls that are \"more appropriate for the display of art.\" Also in the original construction, the main gallery skylight had been covered, which compromised Wight's carefully articulated lighting effects. This changed in 1992 when the skylight was restored to its original design. Funding for the alterations was raised partly through the controversial sale of masterworks by the foundation in 1991.\n\nIn 2001, the museum opened the Sackler Center for Arts Education to the public, which was another part of Wright's original design for the building, through a gift of the Mortimer D. Sackler family. Located just below the large rotunda, this 8,200-square-foot education facility provides classes and lectures about the visual and performing arts and opportunities to interact with the museum's collections and special exhibitions through its labs, exhibition spaces, conference rooms and the Peter B. Lewis Theater. Between September 2005 and July 2008, the Guggenheim Museum underwent a significant exterior restoration to repair cracks and modernize systems and exterior details. Artist Jenny Holzer painted a tribute, \"For the Guggenheim\", in honor of Peter B. Lewis, a major benefactor in the restoration project. The museum was registered as a National Historic Landmark on October 6, 2008.\n\nPeggy Guggenheim purchased the Palazzo Venier dei Leoni in 1948 to house and display her collection to the public, and she resided there for thirty years. Although sometimes mistaken for a modern building, it is an 18th-century palace designed by the Venetian architect Lorenzo Boschetti. The building was unfinished and has an unusually low elevation on the Grand Canal. The museum's website describes its \"long low façade, made of Istrian stone and set off against the trees in the garden behind that soften its lines, forms a welcome \"caesura\" in the stately march of Grand Canal palaces from the Accademia to the Salute.\"\n\nThe Foundation took control of the building in 1979 following Guggenheim's death and took steps to expand gallery space. By 1985, \"all of the rooms on the main floor had been converted into galleries ... the white Istrian stone facade and the unique canal terrace had been restored\", and a protruding arcade wing, called the barchessa, had been rebuilt by architect Giorgio Bellavitis. Since 1985, the museum has been open year-round. In 1993, the foundation converted apartments adjacent to the museum into a garden annex, a shop and more galleries. In 1995, the Nasher Sculpture Garden was completed, Since 1993, the museum has doubled in size, from 2,000 to 4,000 square meters. and it was renovated in 2012.\n\nIn 1991, the Basque government suggested to the foundation that it would fund a Guggenheim museum to be built in Bilbao. The foundation selected Frank Gehry as the architect, and its director, Thomas Krens, encouraged him to design something daring and innovative. The curves on the exterior of the building were intended to appear random; the architect said that \"the randomness of the curves are designed to catch the light\". The interior \"is designed around a large, light-filled atrium with views of Bilbao's estuary and the surrounding hills of the Basque country.\"\n\nWhen the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao opened to the public in 1997, it was immediately hailed as one of the world's most spectacular buildings, a masterpiece of the 20th century. Architect Philip Johnson described it as \"the greatest building of our time\", while critic Calvin Tomkins, in \"The New Yorker\", characterized it as \"a fantastic dream ship of undulating form in a cloak of titanium\", its brilliantly reflective panels also reminiscent of fish scales. Herbert Muschamp praised its \"mercurial brilliance\" in \"The New York Times Magazine\". \"The Independent\" calls the museum \"an astonishing architectural feat\".\n\nThe museum is seamlessly integrated into the urban context, unfolding its interconnecting shapes of stone, glass and titanium on a 32,500-square-meter site along the Nervión River in the old industrial heart of the city; while modest from street level, it is most impressive when viewed from the river. Eleven thousand square meters of exhibition space are distributed over nineteen galleries, ten of which follow a classic orthogonal plan that can be identified from the exterior by their stone finishes. The remaining nine galleries are irregularly shaped and can be identified from the outside by their swirling organic forms and titanium cladding. The largest gallery measures 30 meters wide and 130 meters long. Since 2005, it has housed Richard Serra's monumental installation \"The Matter of Time\".\n\nDeutsche Guggenheim, in Berlin, opened one month after the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao, in 1997. Designed by American architect Richard Gluckman in a minimalist style, the modest Berlin gallery occupied a corner of the ground floor of the sandstone Deutsche Bank building, in the Unter der Linden boulevard, constructed in 1920. It closed in 2013.\n\nThe museum in Abu Dhabi is planned to be the foundation's largest facility by far. Gehry's design features exhibition galleries, education and research space, a conservation laboratory, a center for contemporary Arab, Islamic and Middle Eastern culture, and a center for \"art and technology\". Inspired by traditional middle-eastern covered courtyards and wind towers, used to cool structures exposed to the desert sun, the museum's clusters of horizontal and vertical galleries of various sizes are connected by catwalks and planned around a central, covered courtyard, incorporating natural features intended to maximize the energy efficiency of the building. The largest galleries will offer a grand scale for the display of large contemporary art installations. Parts of the building will be four stories tall, with \"clusters of block and cone-shaped connected galleries seemingly piled on top of each other.\" The museum is intended to be a centerpiece in the island's plan for contemporary art and culture\".\n\nThe new museum began construction on a peninsula at the northwestern tip of Saadiyat Island adjacent to Abu Dhabi. Gehry commented, \"The site itself, virtually on the water or close to the water on all sides, in a desert landscape with the beautiful sea and the light quality of the place suggested some of the direction.\" The completion date was pushed back from 2011 to at least 2017. In March 2011, over 130 artists announced a plan to boycott the Abu Dhabi museum, citing reports of abuses of foreign workers, including the arbitrary withholding of wages, unsafe working conditions and failure of companies to pay recruitment fees to laborers. Continued progress awaits the approval of construction applications and contracts by the Tourism Development & Investment Company (TDIC). As of early 2016, no progress had been made on construction, and the Guggenheim Foundation confirmed that \"TDIC has not yet awarded a contract.\"\n\nThe Guggenheim Helsinki Design Competition in 2014–2015 was the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation's first open, international architectural competition. It received 1,715 submissions from 77 countries, a record for a museum design competition. The design chosen for a proposed €130 million Guggenheim museum in Helsinki, Finland, envisions \"an indistinct jumble of pavilions faced in charred wood\" and glass. The winning design is by Paris-based Moreau Kusunoki Architectes. Critics objected to the dark color of the design's exterior, which contrasts with the surrounding architecture, as well as the shape of the building. Osku Pajamaki, vice chairman of the city's executive board, said: \"The symbol of the lighthouse is arrogant in the middle of the historical center ... [like] a Guggenheim museum next to Notre Dame in Paris. People are approaching from the sea, and the first thing that they will see is that the citizens of Helsinki bought their identity from the Guggenheim.\" The proposed museum was rejected by the Helsinki city council in 2016.\n\nThe foundation annually lends hundreds of works of art from its collections to other museums and institutions around the world. It also enters into collaborations with partners throughout the world to engage with diverse audiences and to promote cultural discourse. From 2006 to 2011, exhibitions of the foundation's works were seen in more than 80 museums, such as the National Art Museum of China in Beijing during the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games.\n\nIn 2010, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation and YouTube, in collaboration with Hewlett-Packard and Intel, presented \"YouTube Play, A Biennial of Creative Video\". More than 23,000 videos from 91 countries were submitted in response to an open call for submissions aimed \"to discover and showcase the most exceptional talent working in the ever-expanding realm of online video\". Foundation curators selected a short list of 125 videos from which a jury, including artists Laurie Anderson and Takashi Murakami and the musical group Animal Collective, picked a playlist of 25 works. These were featured at the \"YouTube Play\" event at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York on October 21, 2010, during which the videos were projected on the exterior of the museum building and inside the museum's rotunda.\n\nThe 25 selected works continued on view at the museum until October 24, 2010. The 125 short list videos were on view throughout the fall of 2010 at kiosks at Guggenheim museums in New York, Berlin, Bilbao and Venice. The project's YouTube channel, youtube.com/play, features all of the short list videos, as well as highlights from the event in New York and information about the project. The collaboration was intended to reach wide audiences beyond the museum environment. \"New York Times\" art critic Roberta Smith commented: \"It is an idea whose time has come. ... In many ways it is simply an old-fashioned open-submission exhibition of the kind that regional museums and art centers around the country have staged for decades – except that it has gone digital.\"\n\nThe BMW Guggenheim Lab is an interdisciplinary travelling project that began in 2011. A collaboration between the BMW Group and the foundation, the lab is part urban think tank, part community center, and part gathering space, which explores issues of urban life through public programming and discourse. The program is designed to proactively engage residents from each city that it visits, and participants on the Internet and from around the world, in free programs and experiments, and to address ideas and issues of urban living with particular relevance to each city. The Lab's Advisory Committee of experts nominates each city's lab team, an interdisciplinary group that creates the programming for that location. The lab was expected to visit nine cities for three months each over the course of six years, with three different structures housing the lab, each of which was to travel to three cities. In 2013, however, BMW ended its support of the project.\n\nThe lab's structure was designed by the Tokyo-based architecture firm Atelier Bow-Wow. The project's three-city cycle was designed around the theme \"Confronting Comfort\", which explored ways of making urban environments more responsive to people's needs, striking a balance between individual and collective comfort, and promoting environmental and social responsibility. The Lab's Advisory Committee members were: Daniel Barenboim, Elizabeth Diller, Nicholas Humphrey, Muchadeyi Masunda, Enrique Peñalosa, Juliet Schor, Rirkrit Tiravanija, and Wang Shi. The lab was open from August 3 to October 16, 2011, in New York City's East Village and was attended by over 54,000 visitors from 60 countries. The Lab was open in Berlin from May 24 to July 29, 2012. The programming of the Berlin Lab focused on four main topics: Empowerment Technologies (Gómez-Márquez), Dynamic Connections (Smith), Urban Micro-Lens (Rose) and the Senseable (SENSEable) City (Ratti). The Lab opened in Mumbai, India, on December 9, 2012, and ran until January 20, 2013. The central location was on the grounds of the Dr. Bhau Daji Lad Museum, with additional satellite locations around the city. Along with neighborhood-specific public programming, the Mumbai Lab program included participatory research studies and design projects.\n\nThe program ended with an exhibition, \"Participatory City: 100 Urban Trends from the BMW Guggenheim Lab\", which was on view at the New York museum from October 11, 2013, through January 5, 2014.\n\nThe Guggenheim UBS MAP Global Art Initiative is a five-year program, supported by Swiss bank UBS in which the Foundation identifies and works with artists, curators and educators from Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa to expand its reach in the international art world. For each of the three phases of the project, the museum invites one curator from the chosen region to the Guggenheim Museum in New York City for a two-year curatorial residency, where he or she works with a team of Guggenheim staff to identify new artworks that reflect the range of talents in their parts of the world. The resident curators organize international touring exhibitions that highlight these artworks and help organize educational activities. The Foundation acquires these artworks for its permanent collection and includes them as the focus of exhibitions that open at the museum in New York and subsequently travel to two other cultural institutions or other venues around the world. The Foundation supplements the exhibitions with a series of public and online programs based on the theme of cross-cultural exchange. UBS is reportedly contributing more than $40 million to the project to pay for its activities and the art acquisitions. Foundation director Richard Armstrong commented: \"We are hoping to challenge our Western-centric view of art history.\"\n\nThe first exhibition (phase 1) focuses on art from South and Southeast Asia and is curated by Singaporean June Yap, who has worked for six years in the curatorial departments of modern and contemporary art museums, including the Institute of Contemporary Arts Singapore and the Singapore Art Museum. The second and third phases of the project will focus on Latin America and the Middle East and North Africa.\n\nThe Hong Kong-based Robert H.N. Ho Family Foundation made a $10 million grant to help the New York museum to commission works for its permanent collection by at least three Chinese-born artists and to hire a curator dedicated to its Chinese art collection. The works are expected to be exhibited at the museum in New York in three exhibitions between 2014 and 2017 and also at the other Guggenheim museums. The commissions are part of an effort by the museum to broaden the geographical scope of its collection, and the Robert H.N. Ho Family Foundation hopes that the collaboration will foster \"a greater understanding of Chinese culture.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25817869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25817869", "title": "Stephen Tan", "text": "Stephen Tan\n\nStephen Tan (born in 1961), () is first son of Robin Chan (Chairman of the Asia Financial Group), and a grandson of Chin Sophonpanich (founder and former president of Bangkok Bank). He serves as the Executive Director of the Asia Financial Group. He has a brother Bernard Chan, who is a Hong Kong politician and businessman, President of Asia Financial Group and its main subsidiary, Asia Insurance.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "55697220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55697220", "title": "Surachart Pisitwuttinan", "text": "Surachart Pisitwuttinan\n\nSurachart Pisitwuttinan (, formerly: \"Suchart\"; สุชาติ; born: circa 1950 in Nonthaburi province, central Thailand) is a Thai boxing manager, trainer and promoter. He is the founder and chairman of Nakornloung Boxing Promotion based in Nonthaburi. He is known as \"Sia Hui\" (เสี่ยฮุย).\n\nHe was born in Thai Chinese family in Nonthaburi province. His family carries on business in the entertainment industry. It owns several cinemas. For Surachart, he has a passion for boxing. Especially professional boxing since childhood. He often goes to training boxing at Yontarakit, the famous boxing gym at that time, located near his native. He competed in the Thailand National Games and won a gold medal in Bantamweight (118 lb) division. After that, he turned professional boxing and won by knocked out every consecutive six times at Lumpinee Stadium, and he was a boxing partner for Venice Borkhorsor, a WBC & The Ring Flyweight (112 lb) world title holder. He is considered a boxer who is good enough to be a world champion.\n\nBut his father did not like it for fear that he will be traumatized. When he was 18 years old, his father sent him to be a cinema manager in Chachoengsao province. But he still does not leave the boxing. He continued to visit the boxing match and catching up with the news feed in the boxing circles often.\n\nIn the fight between Gilberto Román and Kongtoranee Payakaroon in Super flyweight (115 lb) division in late 1986 at Indoor Stadium Huamark inside Huamark Sports Complex, Bangkok. After the match, the victory was Román. He brought his eldest son, \"Pop\" Chokchai, to sit on Román's lap and take a photo together. He often takes him to visit the boxing match often, he has a dream Chokchai in the future will be the first Thai boxer to win the Summer Olympic Games gold medal. He instilled a love of boxing for all his children.\n\nHe started as a promoter in 1994, starting with Veeraphol Sahaprom, including many other boxers such as Suvatchai Chalermsri, Chaosingthong Chalermsri, Samanchai Chalermsri, Daonuea Chalermsri (Napapol Kiatisakchokchai), Thong Por Chokchai and Sirimongkol Singwangcha also one moment.\n\nCurrently, there are several boxers in his stable viz Suriyan Sor Rungvisai, Nawaphon Sor Rungvisai, Srisaket Sor Rungvisai and Pongsaklek Sithdabnij.\n\nToday, in Nakornloung Boxing Promotion his eldest son, Chokchai \"Pop\" Pisitwuttinan was the head trainer and his third son, Thainchai \"Bank\" Pisitwuttinan is an assistant manager.\n\nBesides boxing, he is also the owner of several cinemas in Bangkok and its suburbs such as NK THX, Phueng Luang Rama, Nakornloung Rama etc. (now all closed down). His younger brother, Supote Pisitwuttinan has been two times president of the Federation of National Film Associations of Thailand (currently The National Federation of Motion Pictures and Contents Associations (MPC)).\n\n"}
{"id": "56460782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56460782", "title": "Terry Van Ginderen", "text": "Terry Van Ginderen\n\nEsther Van Ginderen-Verbeeck (8 September 1931, Hoboken – 30 January 2018, Bonheiden), also known as Aunt Terry, was a Flemish television presenter and businesswoman.\n\nIn 1954, she worked for Belgium TV (at that time NIR). As \"Aunt Terry\", she presented, together with Bob Davidse (\"Nonkel Bob\"), the children's program \"Come Take a Look\", and, from 1961 for eighteen years, \"Small, small toddler\". After her resignation in 1979, she became a businesswoman.\n\nFrom 1989, when she founded VTM she worked for this channel, again for children's programs, but she also appeared in various juries of game programs. In 1992, she became manager of Silvy Melody.\n\nOn the occasion of her 75th birthday in 2006, Van Ginderen was received at the Antwerp City Hall. She was active as a presenter of fashion shows and active with performances for the elderly until her death from pneumonia at age 86.\n\nAt record company Arcade Records:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33018826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33018826", "title": "The Battery (Manhattan)", "text": "The Battery (Manhattan)\n\nThe Battery (also commonly known as Battery Park) is a public park located at the southern tip of Manhattan Island in New York City facing New York Harbor. The park and surrounding area is named for the artillery batteries that were positioned there in the city's early years to protect the settlement behind them.\n\nThe Battery Conservancy, founded in 1994 by current President Warrie Price, has undertaken and funded the restoration and improvement of the once-dilapidated park. The park was known as \"Battery Park\" until 2015, when the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation restored the park's original, historical title of \"The Battery\".\n\nThe southern shoreline of Manhattan Island had been known as \"The Battery\" since the 17th century when the area was part of the Dutch Settlement of New Amsterdam. At the time, an artillery battery there served to protect the seaward approaches to the town. The Battery continued its function during the colonial era, and was the center of Evacuation Day celebrations commemorating the departure of the last British troops in the United States after the American Revolutionary War. Just prior to the War of 1812, the West Battery, later renamed Castle Clinton, was erected on a small artificial offshore island nearby, to replace the earlier batteries in the area; later, when the Battery's landmass was created, it encircled and incorporated the island.\n\nThe relatively modern Battery was mostly created by landfill starting from 1855, resulting in a landscaped open space at the foot of the heavily developed mainland of downtown. Skyscrapers now occupy most of the original land, stopping abruptly where the park begins. On State Street, the former harbor front and the northern boundary of the park, a single Federal mansion, the James Watson House, survives as part of the Shrine of Saint Elizabeth Ann Seton; until the 1820s, the city's stylish residential district was north of this house, between Broadway and the Hudson River.\n\nWhile the Brooklyn–Battery Tunnel and Battery Park Underpass were under construction from 1940–52, the park was partly closed; it was later re-landscaped and expanded by . Peter Minuit Plaza was built in 1955; the East Coast Memorial was dedicated in 1963. The Battery was included within a \"group of historic waterfront sites\" designated Harbor Park, by the government of New York State, in 1982. The park was renamed from \"Battery Park\" to \"The Battery\" in April 2015.\n\nToward the northwestern end of the park is Castle Clinton, the often-repurposed last remnant of the defensive works which inspired the name of the park; the former fireboat station Pier A; and Hope Garden, a memorial to AIDS victims. The Battery Gardens restaurant, next to the United States Coast Guard Battery Building. Along the waterfront, Statue Cruises offers ferries to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island. The park is also the site of the East Coast Memorial which commemorates U.S. servicemen who died in coastal waters of the western Atlantic Ocean during World War II, and several other memorials. The SeaGlass Carousel, a site-specific attraction that opened on August 20, 2015, is designed to resemble an under-the-sea garden through which visitors ride on fish shimmering as though they were bioluminescent, and pays homage not only to the carousel's waterfront site, but also to Castle Clinton, which housed the New York Aquarium in the early 20th century.\n\nCastle Clinton, named for mayor DeWitt Clinton, now lies within the park. Originally called the West Battery, it was built as a fort just prior to the War of 1812. It became property of the city after the war and was renamed Castle Clinton. When leased by the city, it became a popular promenade and beer garden. Later roofed over, it became one of the premier theatrical venues in the United States and contributed greatly to the development of New York City as the theater capital of the nation.\n\nThe migration of the city's elite uptown increased concurrently with the mass European emigration of the middle 19th century. As immigrants settled the Battery, the location was less favorable to theater patrons and Castle Garden was closed. The structure was then made into the world's first immigration depot, processing millions of immigrants beginning in 1855, almost 40 years before its successor, Ellis Island, opened its doors. This period coincided with immigration waves resulting from Ireland's Great Famine and other pivotal European events. The structure then housed the New York Aquarium from 1896 to 1941, when it was threatened with destruction under transportation planner Robert Moses's plans.\n\nMade a National Monument in 1946 and restored in 1975, Castle Clinton currently known by its original name and managed by the National Park Service. It contains a small history exhibit and occasionally hosts concerts. As the site of the ticket office for ferries to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island, it recorded nearly 4.08 million visitors in 2009. According to data from the National Park Service, that made Castle Clinton the most popular National Monument.\n\nFive months after being damaged in the September 11 attacks, Fritz Koenig's \"The Sphere\", which once stood at the center of the plaza of the World Trade Center a few blocks away, was reinstalled in a temporary location in the northern section of the park. For a while it was located near the Netherlands memorial flagpole in the northeast corner of the park, but \"The Sphere\" was moved to Liberty Park in the new World Trade Center in fall 2017. \"The Sphere\", standing high, was meant to symbolize world peace through world trade, and was, at its original location, in the center of a ring of fountains to mimic the Masjid al-Haram, Great Mosque of Mecca; \"The Sphere\" had stood at the place in the World Trade Center where the Kaaba was in the Masjid al-Haram. After 2001, it became a World Trade Center memorial as well; a plaque alongside \"The Sphere\" reads as follows:\n\nWithin the park is Hope Garden, a memorial dedicated to AIDS victims, where \"The Sphere\" has been exhibited at times. The garden has also been used as a site for environmental demonstrations due to its fragility and status as a tourist attraction.\n\nA World War II war memorial, the East Coast Memorial is one of three war memorials in the United States administered by the American Battle Monuments Commission; the others are the West Coast Memorial to the Missing of World War II in San Francisco and the Honolulu Memorial. The memorial commemorates U.S. servicemen who died in coastal waters of the western Atlantic Ocean during the Battle of the Atlantic. A total of 4,609 names are inscribed on both sides of eight 19-foot-tall granite pylons. The pylons are arranged in two rows of four each. Between the two rows stands a bronze statue of an eagle, erected on a black granite pedestal. The eagle faces the Statue of Liberty in New York Harbor.\n\nThe memorial was designed by the architectural firm of Gehron & Seltzer. The eagle statue was created by Albino Manca, an Italian-born sculptor. The granite slabs were set up in October 1959, while the sculpture was installed on February 4, 1963. The memorial was dedicated by President John F. Kennedy on May 23, 1963 at a ceremony which included addresses by New York mayor Robert F. Wagner Jr., Senate majority leader Mike Mansfield, and the President. The destroyer USS \"Mitscher\" fired a salute from nearby offshore.\n\nThe American Merchant Mariners' Memorial sculpture, located in the Hudson River west of the park, is sited on a stone breakwater just south of Pier A and connected to the pier by a dock. It was designed by the sculptor Marisol Escobar and dedicated on October 8, 1991. The bronze sculpture depicts four merchant seamen with their sinking vessel after it had been attacked by a U-boat during World War II. One of the seamen is in the water, and is covered by the sea with each high tide. The sculpture is loosely based on a real photograph of crewmen of the \"SS Muskogee\" that was taken by the commander of an attacking submarine. All died at sea. The memorial was commissioned by the American Merchant Mariners' Memorial, Inc., chaired by AFL–CIO president Lane Kirkland.\n\nOther memorials include the Korean War Memorial dedicated to veterans of that conflict, located just north of Castle Clinton; a statue of John Ericsson, designer and innovator of ironclad warships; the Walloon Monument, dedicated to Jessé de Forest for his contributions to the founding of New York City; a 1909 statue of Giovanni da Verrazzano, the first European to sail into New York Harbor; a World War II Coast Guard Memorial; and a monument to Veteran Wireless Operators who went down with their ships.\n\nAt least ten monuments, including the Verrazzano, Coast Guard and Wireless memorials, were stored in the park behind a temporary fence from 2004 or 2005 until 2016 as the result of a long-term renovation of Battery Park. Controversy over the statues' integrity arose in 2015 after renovations took longer than expected. Representatives of NYC Park Advocates and the Italian-American organization UNICO expressed concern about the statues' condition, although experts said there should be no long-term physical harm. The monuments have since been installed in or around the perimeter of the park, although not necessarily in their previous locations.\n\nTo the northwest of the park lies Battery Park City, a planned community built on landfill in the 1970s and '80s, which includes Robert F. Wagner Park and the Battery Park City Promenade. Battery Park City was named after the park. Together with Hudson River Park, a system of greenspaces, bikeways, and promenades now extend up the Hudson River shoreline. A bikeway might be built through the park that will connect the Hudson River Park and East River Greenway parts of the Manhattan Waterfront Greenway.\n\nAcross State Street to the northeast is Bowling Green, as well as the old U.S. Customs House, now used as a branch of the National Museum of the American Indian and the district U.S. Bankruptcy Court. Peter Minuit Plaza abuts the southeast end of the park, directly in front of the Staten Island Ferry's Whitehall Terminal at South Ferry.\n\nThe Battery, due to its key location, has played an important role in the construction of transportation infrastructure. Under the park and immediate surrounding area lies the following active infrastructure:\n\n\nOn December 8, 2005, New York City authorities announced that builders working on the new South Ferry station had found the remains of a 200-year-old stone wall. After archaeological analysis, it was widely reported to be the oldest man-made structure still in place in Manhattan. Four walls and over 250,000 individual artifacts were found in the excavation of the South Ferry subway station. A portion of one wall was placed on temporary display inside Castle Clinton. In 2009, a long portion of wall was embedded permanently into the wall of the entrance to the newly constructed station, at the same depth below street level as originally discovered.\n\nRobert Tierney, chairman of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, said that the wall was probably built to protect the 17th- and 18th-century artillery batteries from which the park's name is derived. The city and the New York City Transit Authority plan to work together to preserve the remains, which were described as \"an important remnant of the history of New York City\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16243181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16243181", "title": "Theodore Douglas Robinson", "text": "Theodore Douglas Robinson\n\nTheodore Douglas Robinson (April 28, 1883 – April 10, 1934) was an American politician from New York who served as the Assistant Secretary of the Navy from November 1924 to 1929. He was a member of the Roosevelt family through his mother and was the eldest nephew of President Theodore \"T.R.\" Roosevelt, Jr. (1858–1919). As an Oyster Bay Roosevelt, Theodore was a descendant of the Schuyler family.\n\nTheodore Douglas Robinson was born on April 28, 1883 in New York City to Douglas Robinson Jr. and Corinne Roosevelt. He attended St. Paul's School in Concord, New Hampshire and graduated from Harvard University in 1904.\n\nHis father was a real estate dealer who was president of Douglas Robinson Company, Charles S. Brown Company, and the Douglas Land Company, trustee of the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, director of the Equitable Life Insurance Society and the Astor Trust Company. He had three younger siblings: Corinne, Monroe, and Stewart.\n\nHis maternal grandparents were Theodore \"Thee\" Roosevelt Sr., a businessman/philanthropist, and Martha Stewart \"Mittie\" Bulloch, a socialite. His paternal grandparents were Douglas Robinson Sr. and Frances Monroe, who was a grandniece of President James Monroe.\n\nIn 1910, he first ran for the New York State Legislature, but was defeated in the primaries by Charles S. Millington. He ran again in 1912, and was elected to the 135th Legislature, serving in the New York State Assembly.\n\nIn 1912, Robinson was elected Chairman of his uncle Theodore's Progressive \"Bull Moose\" Party in the State of New York, and served until 1914.\n\nFrom 1917 until 1918, he was a Republican member of the New York State Senate in 1917 and 1918 (both 32nd D.). Also in 1918, he was campaign manager for then Attorney General of New York Merton E. Lewis's bid for the Republican nomination for governor against incumbent Governor Charles S. Whitman. Lewis lost the nomination to Whitman, who lost his reelection campaign to Al Smith.\n\nLater in 1918, he declined renomination and enlisted in the United States Army, becoming an officer at Camp Zachary Taylor, a training camp in Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nHe returned to the New York State Senate and served again from 1921 to 1924, sitting in the 144th, 145th, 146th and 147th New York State Legislatures, all four with the 35th district. During his time with the New York State Senate, he introduced a number of bills focusing on stray cats, census of men and materials, and revocation of the New York branch of the German American Alliance. In 1921, along with Assemblyman Joseph Steinberg, he led an investigation into the John F. Hylan, the then Mayor of New York City.\n\nIn 1924, he was appointed Assistant Secretary of the Navy by Calvin Coolidge, taking the reins from his cousin, Theodore Roosevelt III. He served from November 1924 to 1929, and during his term changed the Navy's slogan from \"Join the Navy and See the World\" to \"Join the Navy and Show the World.\"\n\nIn 1904, he married Helen Rebecca Roosevelt (1881–1962), daughter of James \"Rosey\" Roosevelt Roosevelt (1854–1927) and Helen Schermerhorn Astor (1855–1893) from the Astor family. Rosey was the half-brother of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Together they had:\n\nRobinson lived in Herkimer County, New York, where his family had an estate since 1725 called \"Henderson House\". He died of pneumonia on April 10, 1934, after being ill for only a few days. His funeral was at the family estate, His pallbearers were Edmund B. Rogers, Franklin B. Lord, G. Palen Snow, Elbridge G. Chadwick, Wendell Blagden, Warren Motley, John Cutter, and James Hackson. The funeral was attended by First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt, Col. Theodore Roosevelt and Eleanor Alexander Roosevelt, Mr. and Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt, Warren D. Robbins, Courtland Nichols, Mr. and Mrs. Phillip McKim Garrison, and Mr. and Mrs. Trubeee Davison, and Senators Henry I. Patrie, Walter W. Stokes, and Henry D. Williams.\n\nHe was a member of the Masons and the Elks as well as the Racquet and Tennis Club, Harvard Club, Union League, Republican Club, Knickerbocker Club, The Brook, Downtown Association of New York City, Meadow Brook Golf Club, Piping Rock Club, National Golf Links of America, Fort Orange Club of Albany, Fort Schuyler Club, Yahnundasis Golf Club of Utica and the Mohawk Valley Country Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "30518856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30518856", "title": "Training simulation", "text": "Training simulation\n\nIn business, training simulation is a virtual medium through which various types of skills can be acquired. Training simulations can be used in a variety of genres; however they are most commonly used in corporate situations to improve business awareness and management skills. They are also common in academic environments as an integrated part of a business or management course.\n\nThe word simulation implies an imitation of a real-life process, usually via a computer or other technological device, in order to provide a lifelike experience. This has proven to be a reliable and successful method of training in thousands of industries worldwide. They can be used both to allow specialization in a certain area, and to educate individuals in the workings of the sectors as a whole, making training simulations versatile. Training simulations are not just games; their aim is to educate and inform in an exciting and memorable way, rather than purely to entertain.\n\nCompanies across the world regularly use simulations as a tool to teach employees. With the enormous range of simulation-based activities available, it is unsurprising that the specific aims of the sessions vary widely. Some simulations are focused on making decisions in a particular area of the business, such as personnel or product design, and these are called \"Functional Simulations\". Others give a general overview of a company and give experience of making executive management decisions, and are called \"Total Enterprise Simulations\". In recent years, however, this classification has become somewhat impractical, as increasing numbers of training simulations are involving both elements, and combining both an overall view of the industry with some decisions relating to specific sectors.\n\nTraining Simulations normally form part of a program designed to educate employees or students about the skills needed to operate a business, as well as persuade them to \"think outside the box\" and see the bigger picture. This can make for a better organized, more fluid system in which all employees understand their part in making the company successful.\nAlthough the most common use for training simulations is in a corporate setting, simulation games are increasingly being used to educate young people about the importance of business. From secondary school age all the way up to MBA students, anyone can benefit from the first-hand experience of running a company and making decisions that directly affect performance. This will allow the participants to gain an overall understanding of the business world, and give some insight into the type of skills that are necessary to succeed. It is also important to note that ‘beating the game’ should not be a primary aim for anyone taking part in a simulation; the focus should be directed towards everyone gaining some useful and relevant knowledge that they can take away and use in their daily lives. If the simulation does have a competitive element, it is to motivate and inspire, rather than encourage any malpractice. Some training activities are non-competitive to avoid this, however many noted experts in the field state that the rivalry between teams or individuals improves the learning experience and adds a sense of fun and drama into the simulation. This is particularly important when working with young people such as students, as they often require an extra boost to keep them entertained, especially when a simulation is run over an extended period.\n\nThe concept of training employees to have a wider perspective on their position within the workplace has been around for hundreds of years, but it is only relatively recently that the idea of creating a simulated environment for trainees to test their abilities and skills has been developed. The first commercially available training simulation was in 1956, and was called \"The Top Management Decision Game\", and was created by the American Management Association. Since then, the market has expanded hugely, with thousands of simulations available based upon hundreds of different industries. Initially simple with just a few choices to make, some simulations have become extremely complex with many different interlinking decisions. When training simulations were first used, they involved paper forms that were filled in by the participants and then compared by the organizer of the exercise. Nowadays, nearly all simulations are computer based, and involve multi-stage algorithms that calculate performance based on the decisions entered. Most simulations are based around a real industry, and hence they use real data to be as accurate as possible and to provide a realistic experience. However, some remain generic and do not model a particular industry, although these tend to be more useful for younger players or those with absolutely no business knowledge.\n\nMost corporations and academic courses that contain a training simulation integrate it into an existing or completely new training programme. This allows the participants to get the maximum value from the experience, as well as review the sessions in order to improve them for future use. The structure of a training session would normally be as follows:\n\n\nThis integrated training will allow everyone taking part in the simulation to get the maximum experience possible, as well as being entertaining, exciting and giving them a new perspective on the business world. Many companies that specialize in training simulations also offer to create a special integrated plan unique to the client, to make the process as streamlined and efficient as possible.\n\nSince training simulations are available based on such a wide range of different industries, and with thousands of different aims and objectives, it is difficult to outline a specific skill-set that will be improved by taking part in a training simulation. However, skills that good training simulations should build on include:\n\nIf every participant improves in these four key skill areas, the training programme will be a success, and any business should notice an improvement in efficiency and motivation, and students will be inspired and animated.\n\n"}
{"id": "28075557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28075557", "title": "Values scale", "text": "Values scale\n\nValues scales are psychological inventories used to determine the values that people endorse in their lives. They facilitate the understanding of both work and general values that individuals uphold. In addition, they assess the importance of each value in people's lives and how the individual strives toward fulfillment through work and other life roles, such as parenting. Most scales have been normalized and can therefore be used cross-culturally for vocational, marketing, and counseling purposes, yielding unbiased results. Psychologists, political scientists, economists, and others interested in defining values, use values scales to determine what people value, and to evaluate the ultimate function or purpose of values.\n\nValues scales were first developed by an international group of psychologists whose goal was to create a unique self-report instrument that measured intrinsic and extrinsic values for use in the lab and in the clinic. The psychologists called their project the Work Importance Study (WIS). The original values scale measured the following values, listed in alphabetical order: ability utilization, achievement, advancement, aesthetics, altruism, authority, autonomy, creativity, cultural identity, economic rewards, economic security, life style, personal development, physical activity, physical prowess, prestige, risk, social interaction, social relations, variety, and working conditions. Some of the listed values were intended to be inter-related, but conceptually differentiable.\n\nSince the original Work Importance Study, several scientists have supplemented the study by creating their own scale or by deriving and improving the original format. Theorists and psychologists often study values, values scales, and the field surrounding values, otherwise known as axiology. New studies have even been published recently, updating the work in the field. Dr. Eda Gurel-Atay published an article in the \"Journal of Advertising Research\" in March 2010, providing a glimpse into how social values have changed between 1976 and 2007. The paper explained how “self-respect” has been on the upswing, while “a sense of belonging” has become less important to individuals.\n\nAccording to social psychologist Milton Rokeach, human values are defined as “core conceptions of the desirable within every individual and society. They serve as standards or criteria to guide not only action but also judgment, choice, attitude, evaluation, argument, exhortation, rationalization, and…attribution of causality.” In his 1973 publication, Rokeach also stated that the consequences of human values would be manifested in all phenomena that social scientists might consider worth investigating. In order for any type of research to be successful, regardless of the field of study, people’s underlying values needed to be understood. To allow for this, Rokeach created the Rokeach Value Survey (RVS), which has been in use for more than 30 years. It provides a theoretical perspective on the nature of values in a cognitive framework and consists of two sets of values – 18 instrumental and 18 terminal. Instrumental values are beliefs or conceptions about desirable modes of behavior that are instrumental to the attainment of desirable end points, such as honesty, responsibility, and capability. Terminal values are beliefs or conceptions about ultimate goals of existence that are worth surviving for, such as happiness, self-respect, and freedom. The value survey asks subjects to rank the values in order of importance to them. The actual directions are as follows: “Rank each value in its order of importance to you. Study the list and think of how much each value may act as a guiding principle in your life.”\nThe Rokeach Value Survey has been criticized because people are often not able to rank each value clearly. Some values may be equally important, while some values may be equally unimportant, and so on. Presumably, people are more certain of their most extreme values (i.e. what they love and what they hate) and are not so certain of the ones “in between.” Further, C.J. Clawson and Donald E. Vinson showed that the Rokeach Value Survey omitted a number of values that a large portion of the population holds.\n\nShalom H. Schwartz, social psychologist and author of \"\" and \"Theory of Basic Human Values\", has done research on universal values and how they exist in a wide variety of contexts. Most of his work addressed broad questions about values, such as: how are individuals’ priorities affected by social experiences? How do individuals’ priorities influence their behavior and choices? And, how do value priorities influence ideologies, attitudes, and actions in political, religious, environmental, and other domains? Through his studies, Schwartz concluded that ten types of universal values exist: achievement, benevolence, conformity, hedonism, power, security, self-direction, stimulation, tradition, and universalism. Schwartz also tested the possibility of spirituality as an eleventh universal value, but found that it did not exist in all cultures. Schwartz's value theory and instruments are part of the biennial European Social Survey.\n\nGordon Allport, a student of American philosopher and psychologist Eduard Spranger, believed that an individual’s philosophy is founded upon the values or basic convictions that a person holds about what is and is not important in life. Based on Spranger’s (1928) view that understanding the individual’s value philosophy best captures the essence of a person, Allport and his colleagues, Vernon and Lindzey, created the Allport-Vernon-Lindzey Study of Values. The values scale outlined six major value types: theoretical (discovery of truth), economic (what is most useful), aesthetic (form, beauty, and harmony), social (seeking love of people), political (power), and religious (unity). Forty years after the study’s publishing in 1960, it was the third most-cited non-projective personality measure.\n\nBy 1980, the values scale had fallen into disuse due to its archaic content, lack of religious inclusiveness, and dated language. Richard E. Kopelman, et al., recently updated the Allport-Vernon-Lindzey Study of Values. The motivation behind their update was to make the value scale more relevant to today; they believed that the writing was too dated. The updated, copyrighted version was published in \"Elsevier Science\" in 2003. Today, permission is required for use. (volume 62)\n\nPhilosopher Robert S. Hartman, creator of the Science of Value, introduced and identified the concept of systematic values, which he believed were an important addition to the previously studied intrinsic and extrinsic values. He also made an illuminating distinction between \"what\" people value and \"how\" people value. How people value parallels very closely with systematic values, which Hartman operationally defined as conceptual constructs or cognitive scripts that exist in people’s minds. Ideals, norms, standards, rules, doctrines, and logic systems are all examples of systematic values. If someone’s cognitive script is repetitively about violent actions, for instance, then that person is more likely to act vengefully and less likely to value peace. With that additional idea in mind, Harman combined intrinsic, extrinsic, and systematic concepts to create the Hartman Value Profile, also known as the Hartman Value Inventory. The profile consists of two parts. Each part contains 18 paired value-combination items, where nine of these items are positive and nine are negative. The three different types of values, intrinsic, extrinsic, and systematic, can be combined positively or negatively with one another in 18 logically possible ways. Depending on the combination, a certain value is either enhanced or diminished. Once the rankings are completed, the outcome is then compared to the theoretical norm, generating scores for psychological interpretation.\n\nResearch surrounding understanding values serves as a framework for ideas in many other situations, such as counseling. Psychotherapists, behavioral scientists, and social scientists often deal with intrinsic, extrinsic, and systematic values of their patients. A primary way to learn about patients is to know what they value, as values are essential keys to personality structures. This knowledge can pinpoint serious problems in living, aide immensely in planning therapeutic regimens, and measure therapeutic progress with applications of values scales over time, especially as social environments and social norms change.\n\nValues are important in the construction of personal morality and as a basis for living life. Recent literature suggests that social values are reflected in a large variety of advertisements and can influence audience reactions to advertising appeals. When a choice is tied to a value, that choice then becomes more attractive to people who share that value. Means-end chain analyses often find that consumers select products with attributes that deliver consequences, which in turn contribute to value fulfillment. In short, people’s values resonate in and are observable throughout their daily lives. An example, presented in the \"Journal of Advertising Research\" by Eda Gurel-Atay, is coffee. People who endorse fun and enjoyment in life may want a cup of coffee for its rich, pleasant taste. Meanwhile, people who value a sense of accomplishment may rather use coffee as a mild stimulant. People who value warm, loving relationships with others may want a cup of coffee to share in a social manner. Perspective and personal beliefs greatly influence behavior.\n\nClawson and Vinson (1978) further elaborated on this idea by explaining how values are one of the most powerful explanations of, and influences on, consumer behavior. Values scales are helpful in understanding several aspects of consumption areas and consumer behavior, including leisure, media, and gift giving. People who endorse certain values more highly than others engage in certain activities, prefer certain programs or magazines, or give gifts differently from others. Values scales and the study of values could also be of interest to companies who are looking to build or strengthen their customer relationship management.\n\n"}
{"id": "39240181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39240181", "title": "Wan Mohammad Khair-il Anuar", "text": "Wan Mohammad Khair-il Anuar\n\nDatuk Wan Mohammad Khair-il Anuar bin Wan Ahmad (16 January 1960 – 5 May 2016) was a Malaysian politician, architect, and entrepreneur who has served as a member of the Parliament of Malaysia for the seat of Kuala Kangsar since 2013 and Chairman of Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB). He is a native of Kuala Kangsar, Perak. Wan Khair-il Anuar was a member of the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) in Malaysia's previous ruling Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition.\n\nWan Khair-il Anuar received his primary education in Sekolah Kebangsaan Clifford, Kuala Kangsar from 1967 to 1972. During his secondary education, he went to three different schools: Sekolah Menengah Clifford, Sekolah Menengah Anderson and Sungai Petani Science School (Boarding School) in Kedah.\n\nWith an excellent achievement during his secondary education, Wan Khair-il Anuar was sent by the government to further his studies in architecture abroad. His first stop was the City College Plymouth, where he obtained distinction in his \"A level\" program. Then, he was accepted to the Kingston University where he was awarded a BA (Hons) Architecture and Master in Architecture.\n\nIn 1990, Wan Khair-il Anuar set up an architecture firm, which is based in Kuala Lumpur. Wan Khair-il Anuar was also appointed as Chairman of Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB). He has also been a board member of Damansara Realty Berhad, a public listed company.\n\nWan Khair-il Anuar was inducted into various professional organizations. In 1990, he became a member of Pertubuhan Arkitek Malaysia (PAM), followed by Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) in 1992 and Institut Perekabentuk Dalaman Malaysia (IPDM) in 1995.\n\n\nWan Khair-il Anuar was elected as a member of the Perak State Legislative Assembly for Bukit Chandan constituency in the 2008 general election with a majority of 1,694.\nIn the 2013 general election, he was elected as a member of the Parliament of Malaysia for the seat of Kuala Kangsar after defeating Khalil Idham Lim Abdullah of the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS) and Datuk Kamilia Ibrahim, the former UMNO Women's Deputy Chief as an Independent, with a majority of 1,082 votes.\n\nWan Khair-il Anuar was killed in an AS 350 helicopter crash near Sebuyau, Sarawak. He was travelling with several other government officials from Betong to Kuching on 5 May 2016 when the helicopter lost contact with ground officials. Debris were found near Batang Lupar river the following day. The tragedy also involved Tan Sri Dato' Hajjah Noriah Kasnon, the Deputy Minister of Plantation Industries and Commodities and member of parliament for Sungai Besar, Selangor. Wan Mohammad Khair-il Anuar's remains were flown back to Perak and he was laid to rest at the Al-Ghufran Royal Mausoleum near Ubudiah Mosque, Kuala Kangsar.\n\n"}
{"id": "25625674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25625674", "title": "Weeratunge Edward Perera", "text": "Weeratunge Edward Perera\n\nWeeratunge Edward Perera (; 22 June 1898 – 23 September 1982) was a Malaysian Sinhalese educator, businessman and social entrepreneur. He brought some semblance of peace to Teluk Anson (now Teluk Intan, Perak, Malaysia) during its occupation by the Imperial Japanese Army in World War II and the Malayan Emergency that followed. W. E. Perera oversaw the restoration of water, electrical supplies, medical services and governance to Telok Anson after its invasion by Japanese forces following the withdrawal of the British forces to Singapore. With the surrender of the Japanese and during the tumultuous Malayan emergency that followed, he was responsible in restarting and extending the Anglo Chinese School (ACS), Telok Anson (now Sekolah Kebangsaan Horley Methodist, Teluk Intan) with the help of the returning British administration and local philanthropists. He was the first non Methodist post war principal of the Anglo Chinese School in Telok Anson and was also responsible in organising the first teachers housing cooperative in Malaya at Telok Anson (now the suburb of Kampong Guru (Teacher's Village), Teluk Intan).\n\nW. E. Perera was born in Telok Anson, Perak, to Weeratunge Charles Perera and his wife, Galgodliynage Marthina Perera. His father a contract railway engineer from Kotahena, Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) settled in Malaya (1880s) after accepting the permanent position as Head Guard of the railway between Teluk Anson and Tapah and later retiring as Chief Inspector, Permanent Ways, of the Malayan Railways. He and his siblings, elder sister Margaret, and younger brothers Samuel, Joseph and Daniel grew up in Seremban, Negri Sembilan where his father was subsequently transferred. W. E. Perera started his education at St. Francis Institution, Malacca and then moved to St. Xavier's Institution, Penang to complete his Junior Cambridge exams. After passing the local government school leaving exams at Standard VII, at the direction of his father, he continued his studies whilst living in Prai, Penang with his parents. He passed his Senior Cambridge Certificate exams on a second try during the height of World War I.\n\nThe First World War came to Malaya at the battle of Penang on 28 October 1914. As he describes in his memoirs,\n\nDuring this time W E Perera was a member of the Cadet Corps and through his friend Pertha Singh, befriended all the petty officers of the local guarding regiment frequently meeting with them in \"one famous bar in those days known as Kee Kee Hotel\", Penang.\nAlthough being in the Commonwealth the sympathies of the locals were with the Germans during the early part of World War I.\n\nAfter leaving school and short apprenticeships in engineering and surveying, his father arranged for him to join the Government service to apprentice under the Chief Clerk of the Railway Traffic office and later the Lands Office in Teluk Anson. Here, W. E. Perera learnt to buy and sell land, plant rubber and became conversant in the Malay language. He also applied to join the Army in an Anglo-Indian regiment being formed in India with volunteers from Malaya much to the disapproval of his father. However, his departure was delayed and later cancelled when the Armistice was ratified with Germany.\nOn being transferred to Batu Gajah, he lived in his own quarters, socialised with the local Eurasian community, studied and experimented in psychology, parapsychology, took up athletics and even music, playing the clarinet in a local band. He passed his clerical examinations and then completed a teaching diploma alongside doing a course in bookkeeping.\n\nW. E. Perera was employed by the Rev. W. E. Horley as a teacher at the Methodist High School in Telok Anson. By heeding the sound advice of his mentor Mr W. A. Rabel and friends, he saved enough money to invest in coconut and rubber plantations which he successfully ran whilst continuing his career as a teacher. This gave him financial independence to pursue various social activities like helping organise the Boy Scouts of Lower Perak and the Methodist Youth Fellowship, Telok Intan. In 1922, he created \"The Cosmopolitan Club\", Telok Anson, a multi-racial, secular social club much to the angst of the British who tried to keep the races separate. This gave him the opportunity to interact and befriend influential people from various social and ethnic groups like the Japanese, Chinese, Eurasians, Indians, Europeans, Malays and the Royalty of Teluk Anson.In 1928 after a brief visit to see his mother and sister in Taiping, he met and eventually married Meepaygamay Kankananga Joci Perera (7 March 1908 – 6 January 1994) on 11 January 1929. They had 10 children: Minona, Jothika, Abhay, Wimala, Susimal,Tissa, Kimsuke, Jinamal, Kusala and Jaya in the years 1930 to 1947.\n\nThe war arrived to Telok Anson in form of air bombing raids by the Japanese Air Forces. Despite being instructed to leave Teluk Anson by the British district officer, W. E. Perera was one of a few people that boldly came out of hiding to help the unfortunate victims. He was a volunteer in the St Johns Ambulance at that time and months earlier had received training as a Superintendent of a medical unit which he put to good use.\n\nAs described in one of his birthday messages:\n\nThroughout the war, Mr W. E. Perera was not affected by the atrocities of the Japanese soldiers or the Communists but he was not immune to other factions which he thought were war opportunists. W. E. Perera slapped an Indian National Army health officer who rebuked him for contributing only 5 Japanese dollars for their movement. This landed W. E. Perera being branded a traitor, arrested and detained in the Kempeitai jail. However, after a few hours, he was released when his friends who worked for the Japanese protested his innocence to the Kempeitai.\n\nDuring the war, a number of people lived with the family of W. E. Perera at his residence at various times for protection against persecution by the Japanese, Communists and for economic reasons. These included Mr Neoh Ban Soon and family, Mr James Ranatunge and family, Mrs Rosie Shoemarker and family, Mrs Loveridge and six former members of an Auxiliary Armed Force. To purchase food during these years, W. E. Perera sold some of his properties.\n\nW. E Perera saved a number of people from being executed during this period. As witnessed by his eldest son Jothika,\n\nLife in Telok Anson was still difficult after the surrender of the Japanese at the end of World War II when the Malayan Emergency was declared. In the message given to his family, W. E. Perera relates the following:\n\nWhen the missionaries arrived and found out what W. E. Perera, a non-Methodist teacher had done for their school, they appointed him Principal of the School.\n\nAs principal, he created a new high school with a laboratory for science teaching as an extension of ACS, Teluk Anson by getting his friend Mr V. Kn. Kannappa Chettiar to dispose of a five-acre block of rubber land which he owned adjoining the Raja Muda's Istana for a reasonably low price of $25,000. The school was constructed with donations from the Missionaries, various guilds and associations like the rubber and copra associations, sizeable contributions from Raja Musa the then Raja Muda of Perak, and the Malay Gurus Association for special class-rooms to be named after them.\n\nW.E Perera was the first in Malaya to initiate a housing society for teachers of his school at Teluk Anson from 1953 to 1955. He sought loans, land, got the houses built and created the housing estate named \"Kampung Guru\" (Teacher's Village) after refusing to have it named after him. This estate was opened by Governor Mc Gillivray of Teluk Anson.\n\nNot one to rest on his laurels, W. E. Perera refused to accept any offers of honours or awards from the Sultan of Perak for his community service during the war. He also refused the recommendation for an MBE (Member of the Order of the British Empire) award made by the then governor Sir Edward Gent. However, when General Sir Gerald Templer offered it again with the statement \"the people have requested that it be bestowed upon you\", W. E. Perera could not turn down the honour.\n\nKeeping to his desire to retire in Kuala Lumpur, Selangor so that his children could have better work and social opportunities, W. E Perera accepted the position of Principal of the Kishan Dial School, Petaling Jaya from the late Swami Satayanda. He eventually settled in Petaling Jaya, Kuala Lumpur in 1965. Here he delved into the study of Asian philosophy and was involved in the establishment of the Brickfields Buddhist Temple among other social endeavours like volunteering in the schools for the underprivileged. He taught Buddhist philosophy at the local university and regularly had discussions with visiting and resident Theravada Buddhist monks like the Revs. K. Sri Dhammananda, Ananda Mangala and Henepola Gunaratana whom he mentored.\n\nW. E. Perera died at the University hospital, Petaling Jaya from a massive heart attack before he was due to receive a pacemaker. Having been the first voluntary worker with the blind to have pledged his eyes earlier, his corneas were donated to the eye bank and successfully transplanted into two recipients. Following a funeral, his body was cremated and ashes dispersed in the Straits of Malacca off Klang.\n\n"}
{"id": "56557977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56557977", "title": "West Loop–LaSalle Street Historic District", "text": "West Loop–LaSalle Street Historic District\n\nThe West Loop–LaSalle Street Historic District is a historic district centered on LaSalle Street in the western Chicago Loop. The district encompasses Chicago's financial center, which is anchored by the Chicago Board of Trade Building, and also includes several of its major government buildings. Development in the district began in 1873 and, with the exception of a lull during the Great Depression and World War II, has continued through the present day. Most of the district's buildings are high-rises with at least ten stories, with the tallest being the 49-story One North LaSalle Building. Many of Chicago's prominent architectural firms designed buildings within the district, and the buildings feature styles such as Classical Revival, Chicago School, Art Deco, Romanesque Revival, and International. Significant buildings within the district include the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Chicago City Hall, and several office buildings for large banks and insurance companies.\n\nThe district was added to the National Register of Historic Places on June 1, 2013. A boundary increase on July 24, 2017 added two buildings at 330 S. Wells Street and 212 W. Van Buren Street to the district.\n"}
