{"id": "52404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52404", "title": "24th century BC", "text": "24th century BC\n\nThe 24th century BC was a century which lasted from the year 2400 BC to 2301 BC.\n\n\n\nIn modern Korean national mythology, the character Dangun, whose mother was originally a bear, founded the state Gojoseon in 2333 BC and ruled it for about 2000 years. Some Koreans think of it as the earliest Korean state and of Dangun as the ancestor of Koreans. From 1948 until December 1961, the Republic of Korea officially reckoned years by adding 2333 to the Common Era year. The year 2333 BC and the related myth are sometimes presented matter-of-factly as \"history\" rather than \"mythology\" in Korea.\n"}
{"id": "1350425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1350425", "title": "AN/URC-117 Ground Wave Emergency Network", "text": "AN/URC-117 Ground Wave Emergency Network\n\nThe Ground Wave Emergency Network (GWEN) was a command and control communications system intended for use by the United States government to facilitate military communications before, during and after a nuclear war. Specifically, the GWEN network was intended to survive the effects of an electromagnetic pulse from a high-altitude nuclear explosion and ensure that the United States President or his survivors could issue a launch order to Strategic Air Command bombers by radio.\n\nAN/URC-117 was the system's Joint Electronics Type Designation System identifier, which signified various radio components installed in different locations. Each GWEN Relay Node site featured a longwave transmitting tower, generally between tall, and emitting an RF output of between 2,000 and 3,000 watts. Of 240 planned GWEN towers, only 58 were built. In 1994, a defense appropriations bill banned the funding of new GWEN tower construction, and a few months later, the GWEN program was cancelled by the US Air Force. The United States Coast Guard later outfitted a number of former GWEN sites to house the National Differential GPS system.\n\nGWEN was part of the Strategic Modernization Program designed to upgrade the nation's strategic communication system, thereby strengthening the value of nuclear deterrence. The GWEN communication system, established in the late 1980s, was designed to transmit critical Emergency Action Messages (EAM) to United States nuclear forces. EMP can produce a sudden power surge over a widespread area that could overload unprotected electronic equipment and render it inoperable. In addition, EMP could interfere with radio transmissions that use the ionosphere for propagation. It was thought that GWEN would use a ground-hugging wave for propagation and so be unaffected by the EMP. The network was conceived as an array of approximately 240 radio transceivers distributed across the continental USA which operated in the Low frequency (LF) radio band.\n\nAnalysis showed that low-frequency (150-190 kilohertz) radio transmissions were largely unaffected by high-altitude EMP, and the Air Force Weapons Laboratory (Kirtland Air Force Base) tested a small scale 'groundwave' transmission system in 1978-1982. Based on the groundwave concept's promise, USAF Headquarters issued a draft Program Management Directive (PMD) for a \"Proliferated Groundwave Communications System (PGCS)\" on 25 August 1981. The name of this proposed network system was changed from PGCS to Groundwave Emergency Network in February 1982 The Air Force placed a tentative initial operating capability for GWEN by January 1992.\n\nWhen doubts arose regarding the threat of electromagnetic pulse to permanently shut down communications, only 58 of the originally planned 240 GWEN towers were built. In 1994 a defense appropriations bill banned new towers from being built, and shortly after, the GWEN program was cancelled by the Air Force.\n\nCommand and control messages originating at various military installations were transmitted on the 225 to 400 MHz band and received by a network of unmanned relay stations, called \"Relay Nodes\", dispersed throughout the contiguous 48 states. The Relay Nodes would re-transmit these command and control messages to each other, and to Strategic Air Command operating locations and launch control centers using low frequencies in the 150-175 kHz range in order to take advantage of ground-hugging radio propagation similar to commercial AM radio stations.\n\nDistance between the Relay Nodes were approximately 150–200 miles, determined by the ground wave transmission range. During initial operations, the Relay Nodes would receive and relay brief test messages every 20 minutes. The system had built-in redundancy, using packet switching techniques for reconstruction of connectivity if system damage occurred.\n\nEarly in its lifetime, electrical interference problems caused by GWEN system operation began to surface. Since the stations were using LF, the chosen frequency was within 1 kHz of the operating frequency of nearby electrical carrier current systems. With GWEN handling constant voice, teletype and other data traffic, it caused interference to the power companies diagnostic two kilohertz side carrier tone. When the side carrier tone disappeared due to interference from GWEN, the power grid would interpret that as a system fault.\n\nThe overall area of a GWEN Relay Node was approximately , approximately × 700 feet. It was surrounded on the perimeter by locked, chain-link fences topped with barbed wire. Typical site features included:\n\n\nThe main GWEN antenna operated intermittently in the LF band at 150 to 175 kilohertz (kHz) (below the bottom of the AM broadcast band at 530 kHz). The peak broadcasting power was from 2,000 to 3,000 watts. The UHF antenna operated at 20 watts, between 225 and 400 megahertz (MHz).\n\nA 1998 Department of Transportation environmental impact survey that proposed repurposing a number of existing GWEN sites for use by the Nationwide Differential Global Positioning System listed the locations of 29 GWEN sites:\n\n\nSome of the initial towers had prompted groups of citizens in Massachusetts, Oregon, Pennsylvania, and California to organize to fight construction of GWEN towers in their areas. The groups believed that the presence of a GWEN node would increase the community's \"strategic worth\" in the eyes of the Soviet Union and thus invite attack. Responding to these groups, the Air Force repeatedly downplayed the importance of the towers, stating they were not worth that kind of attention by the Soviet Union.\n\nAmid controversy and world geopolitical changes, GWEN's value diminished greatly in the post-Cold War environment, in addition to its existence being rendered moot by the sustained effectiveness of predecessor and follow-on systems (Survivable Low Frequency Communication System and Minimum Essential Emergency Communication Network respectively). As early as 1990, legislative measures were enacted to terminate the program.\n\nIn 1994, new construction of GWEN towers were banned after a defense appropriations bill eliminated any funding for the towers for one year. A few months later, the United States Air Force announced that they would terminate the construction contract to build the remaining 25 towers, except for monies used to dismantle the system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25891135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25891135", "title": "AVM Runestone", "text": "AVM Runestone\n\nThe AVM Runestone, also known as the Berg-AVM Runestone, is a hoax created in 1985 by students carving runes into a boulder near Kensington, Minnesota, not far from where the Kensington Runestone was found in 1898. In 2001, a carving expert and her geologist father found the AVM Runestone, told the press that it was proof of early Viking or Norse settlement in Minnesota, and began an investigation to prove its authenticity. The creators came forward with their story that it was purely a hoax and not an artifact of Viking explorers.\n\nIn the spring of 2001, stone carving expert Janey Westin, of Minneapolis, and her father, Robert G. Johnson, an adjunct professor in the geology department of the University of Minnesota, were making a systematic survey of stones in the vicinity of the Kensington Runestone Park, for the Research Team set up to further understanding of the Kensington Runestone. Investigating a small island in a lake on the farm of Arlen and Ruby Sabolik, about 400 metres (1/4 mile) from the 1898 find site, on May 13, Westin found the carved letters \"AVM\" on a lichen-covered, pinkish-brown granite gneiss boulder (about 110 cm or 43 inches long, weighing perhaps a tonne) which they had inspected previously in different light conditions. They took photographs and reported their find. Two weeks later, they returned to the site with Minneapolis geologist Scott Wolter and removed lichen to reveal more inscribed characters: the date 1363 in the same pentadic numerals as seen on the Kensington Runestone and a second line of three runes, possibly \"ASU\", \"XSU\" or \"XSV\". Although the symbols of the top line were similar to those on the stone found in 1898, those in the second line were not.\n\nIn June, the Runestone Museum in Alexandria established a Special Committee to investigate the discovery and contacted archaeologists. On June 9, the site was carefully mapped and documented; on July 11, the stone was removed. Three archaeologists from Minnesota institutions conducted a preliminary dig of nine test-holes at and around the site, on July 25, finding no evidence of Norse presence. They found a few Native American artifacts, including two quartz flakes, probably waste from arrowhead production.\n\nThe discovery was announced in the Minneapolis \"Star Tribune\" on August 11, 2001, with Westin pre-empting accusations by making it very clear that she had not carved the stone. The team suggested that the stone might have been made as a grave marker for some of the Norse explorers. After a public display and press conference at Kensington, the stone was taken to Wolter's St. Paul laboratory for detailed photography and analysis of the weathering of stone and carving. The state archaeologist, Mark Dudzik, was skeptical, maintaining the position that it was \"just not logical\" to believe that Scandinavian explorers — who, he argued, specialized in exploiting resources along coastlines — had penetrated to Minnesota in the 1360s. Russell Fridley, a former director of the Minnesota Historical Society, expressed a similar view with the observation that \"It's a great testimony to Scandinavian humor on the frontier.\"\n\nImmediately after the announcement, local Norse enthusiast Bob Berg came forward to report that he had found the stone while undertaking a similar survey in late 1994 and reported on it in April 1995 to the Viking research group of which he was a member. Their firm conclusion had been that it was a hoax, not worth further effort.\n\nOn September 5, 2001, Kari Ellen Gade, then chair of the Department of Germanic Studies at Indiana University, and Jana K. Schulman, associate professor in English at Southeastern Louisiana University, wrote a letter to the Minnesota Historical Society. They explained that in June 1985, while students at the University of Minnesota, they and three friends (who chose to remain anonymous) had carved the AVM stone with a hammer and chisel as a test of willingness to believe in mystery artifacts (and \"for fun\"). They also revealed that the odd runes on the second line were supposed to read \"ALU\" (a pagan magical invocation) in an older style of runes, but the chisel had slipped.\n\nBreaking the news on November 5 on behalf of the Special Committee, Scott Wolter — who had found \"specific points that bothered me\" during his scientific investigation — accepted the confession, saying \"I give them credit for coming forward and admitting it.\" Westin was less forgiving: She had paid for transportation of the stone to its initial safe storage and had devoted time and energy that could have gone \"into my work, where it belonged.\" Gade stated that the confession was made specifically because \"We saw that people were being asked to make financial contributions to have the rock tested ... we didn't feel it would be right to carry this further.\" She also said \"I'm sorry that people spent their time and money on the stone, but it was clearly a fake.\"\n\nLocal researcher Barry Hanson, in a book he was then writing about the original Kensington Runestone, explained the main concerns that had emerged before the confession. The scientific testing had quickly shown that the carved surfaces had too much iron pyrite, which ought long ago to have oxidized to ferrous sulfate if the carving was genuinely ancient. Also, the site, though an island in 2001, ought to have been underwater in 1363.\n\n"}
{"id": "37730439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37730439", "title": "Arturo Ardao", "text": "Arturo Ardao\n\nArturo Ardao (Minas, Lavalleja Department, 27 September 1912 – Montevideo, 22 September 2003) was a Uruguayan philosopher and historian of ideas.\n\nFrom 1968 to 1972 he was dean of the Faculty of Humanities.\n\nHe contributed to the weekly newspaper \"Marcha\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45127503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45127503", "title": "B. Ch. Chhabra", "text": "B. Ch. Chhabra\n\nBahadur Chand Chhabra (born 3 April 1908), popularly known as B. Ch. Chhabra, was an Indian Sanskritist and epigraphist who served as Assistant and Joint Director General of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).\n\nChhabra was born at Kohat near Peshawar in the then North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) of British India on 3 April 1908. Chhabra graduated from the Punjab University, Lahore and earned a doctorate. In the early 1930s, he joined the Archaeological Survey of India as an epigraphist under J. Ph. Vogel.\n\nChhabra succeeded Vogel as Chief Epigraphist in 1935 and served till 1953. In 1953, he reached the pinnacle of his career becoming Assistant Director General and then, Joint Director General of the Archaeological Survey of India. Chhabra retired from ASI in 1966.\n\n"}
{"id": "54784271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54784271", "title": "Battle of Andoain", "text": "Battle of Andoain\n\nThe Battle of Andoain (Basque: Andoaingo Gudua) was a battle fought on 14 September 1837, during the First Carlist War in northern Spain. The action took place in Andoain, south of the main Liberal stronghold of San Sebastián. Liberal troops, led by the Spanish General Leopoldo O'Donnell, had captured Andoain on 9 September, driving the Carlist garrison to the western bank of the river Oria. Then followed a three-day period of breastwork building by both sides and sporadic fighting. After two days of trench warfare, the Carlist poured heavy artillery fire on the Liberals lines and launched an all-out offensive by midday supported by reinforcements brought in from Navarra by General José Ignacio de Uranga. The Liberals were flanked on their left wing, and their lines crumbled. Only two British Auxiliary Legion Regiments and a number of their Basque local guides, the Chapelgorris, were left to resist the Carlist advance, but were eventually outnumbered and overran. Most of the British who surrendered to the Carlists were executed, accused of the burning of several local farms in the previous days. The battle was the end of the British Auxiliary Legion as an effective fighting force, with two-thirds of their members killed, wounded or executed by the Carlists and local civilian residents. General O´Donnell and the remnants of his forces withdrew to Hernani.\n\nAfter the battle of Oriamendi in March 1837, with the morale of the Carlist army on the rise, royal pretender Carlos María Isidro de Borbón conceived a thrust of his army through Aragon, Catalonia and Valencia to take supplies and reinforcements from their allies in the region, and later carry out an all-out offensive on Madrid. The main reason behind the operation was to lift the Liberal blockade of the Basque provinces, which was taking effect on the economy of these Carlist-held areas. The plan is referred to by historians as the \"Royal Expedition\". The British Auxiliary Legion, which had been badly beaten at Oriamendi and was based at San Sebastián, took advantage of the circumstances to lead a Liberal offensive along the Cantabrian coast, only defended by isolated garrisons. The Liberals only found some resistance at Irun, which was taken by assault and plundered on 17 May. When the Carlist troops were approaching Madrid, Spanish Liberal General O'Donnell left the besieged San Sebastián to launch a successful offensive to the south, on Hernani and Urnieta. The Carlists retreated to the other side of the rivers Oria and Leitzaran, near Andoain.\n\nOn 8 September 1837, O'Donnell massed a 7,000-men strong force to advance on the Carlist lines between the villages of Hernani and Urnieta. The Liberals pushed their enemies towards the natural barrier formed by the rivers Oria and Leizaran, where the two armies stood facing each other at a distance of a mere 200 yards. O´Donnell established his headquarters at Andoain, which lays on the main road between San Sebastián and the Carlist stronghold of Tolosa. The Carlist forces, composed of five Guipuzcoan battalions and an improvised militia of local residents, controlled the western bank of the river Oria. The opposing forces started to fortified their positions and entrenchments, O´Donnell men by rebuilding the town's fortress, destroyed by the retreating rebels, and the Carlist faction by setting up a six-feet high barricade with a number of embrasures that enabled them to keep the town under fire. The wall had the shape of a horseshoe, following the course of the stream, with the convex side aimed to Andoain. The extreme left ended up in a bunker, where the Carlists mounted a permanent watch. The narrowness of the stream and the main bridge made any force attempting to cross the river an easy target for the rebels. The accurate fire from the parapets indeed hampered the Liberals building of their own breastworks. The Carlist bunker was connected with their rearguard by a ravine which edges were protected by rocky crags, while the gaps were closed with casket filled with clay and stones. This means that any reinforcement or movement out or into the bunker and eventually to the barricade became unnoticed to the Liberals. On the right side of the trenches, the terrain allowed O'Donnell to command the enemies' positions, which were occasionally checked by the British artillery, which provoked a number of casualties among the Carlists when their rounds struck home. The British battery was made of two nine pounders and one twelve-pound howitzer. In the course of these skirmishes, two British officers were wounded by snipers. The Spanish Liberal troops were stationed to the left and to the right of the fortifications, while two companies of British Rifles were deployed in several outposts along the river. In order to reprieve Carlist sympathizers of supplies, British troops set 126 barns on fire. This action enraged the local residents, who sought revenge by moving en masse to the Carlist zone and joining the rebel ranks. A British regular force of Royal Marines and Royal Artillery deployed in Hernani, but did not intervene in the following actions.\n\nDuring the buildup process, Navarrese troops lead by General José Ignacio de Uranga, departing from Arróniz in Navarre, sneaked through the valley between Tolosa and Andoain. These reinforcements increased the strength of the rebel army to some 3,000 soldiers. In the morning of 14 September, the loyalists found that two artillery emplacement had been mounted on the palisade. Five rebel cannons began to poured heavy fire on the Liberal forces at Andoain itself. The British battery returned fire, and claimed to have silenced one of the pieces. The exchange lasted until 11 o'clock, when the rebel infantry emerged from their entrenchements and supported by intense musketry fire, advanced on the left and right flanks of the Liberal army. Uranga's plan was to lure the main body of the Liberal army to their right, north of Andoain, and then launch a two-pronged attack on the weakened center and left. The British Rifles and Scottish regiments were in the center, watching the main bridge on the river Oria, along with the Basque militia loyal to the Spanish government, known as the Chapelgorris. The Chapelgorris were forced to abandon their posts at the bridge after fierce fighting, as the right wing of the Carlist attack made gains on the eastern bank of the river.\n\nAccording to British sources, it was at this stage of the battle that Colonel F. R. Clarke, in charge of a Scottish regiment, mustered a column of near 300 troops in the town's main square and launched a bayonet attack in the direction of the bridge, which eventually drove the Carlists back to the river's edge. Earlier in the battle, however, O'Donnell had moved the \"Gerona\" battalion, made up of veteran Spaniard soldiers who had kept at bay the Carlist forces on the left flank over the past days, to meet what he perceived as the main Carlist effort on his right, replacing them by the unexperienced troops of the \"Infanta Isabel\" battalion. These young recruits fled in panic when rebel forces reached the eastern bank of the river Oria. Their retreat allowed the Carlist army to flank the British from their left. The artillery wagon of the Legion, whose cannons had been emplaced on the right side of the fortifications, was forced to withdraw, defended by the British Lancers and returning fire whenever possible. Two British gunners were killed by counter-battery fire. At this point, Colonel Clarke's troops became trapped between the bridge and downtown Andoain, now occupied by the Carlists.\n\nClarke was last seen at the head of the bridge, where he received a sabre wound from a Carlist officer on one of his legs and fell from his horse. Clarke, with his left arm still in a sling from a wound received at Oriamendi, became prisoner and was executed the following day at Tolosa. One of Clarke's subordinates, Captain Larkham, was shot and killed by a sharpshooter while involved in a sword duel with a Carlist officer. After the action on the bridge, the Scotchs and two Rifles companies were cut off from the village's center. One of the Rifles companies keeping watch on the Carlist main breastwork, commanded by Captain Courtenay and two subalterns, was almost whipped out by the Spanish rebels, with only five survivors. The British stragglers fled in disarray, only to be killed by the rebels or died from exhaustion. The remains of Clarke's column, meanwhile, sought shelter in the local church. The thick walls of the building provided a good protection against gunfire, and in its stores were plenty of food and supplies, but the 25 soldiers eventually surrendered to the Carlists on 16 September, on the promise of mercy.\n\nDuring the withdrawal from Andoain, Spanish General O'Donnell had a narrow escape when his horse was killed by a Carlist bullet. Overpowered by the tumultuous retreat of his troops, O´Donnell fell into a ditch. He was rescued by Colonel James Arbuthnot, a Scottish officer who has been in the Spanish service for 35 years. It was at this stage of the battle that a company of Lancers carried out a rearguard action, in an attempt to relief the Scotchs and Rifles surrounded in the village and recover a cart of rockets overturned in the retreat. The cavalry charge into Andoain was eventually beaten off by the Carlists. The action resulted in the death of the company commander and aide-de-camp of Brigadier O'Connell, Mayor McKellar, and two ranks. A total of 13 British officers lost their lives at Andoain, some of them executed or lynched after surrender. The action lasted barely half-an-hour.\nOverstretched by their own progress, the Carlists were forced to leave Urnieta, which was briefly retaken by the Lancers and other loyalist troops. The position, however, was deemed untenable by O'Donnell, who ordered his men to fall back to Hernani at dusk. The victorious Carlist troops rounded up 100,000 rounds of ball cartridges, 1,500 firearms, 199 rockets, 150 British tents, 3,000 pairs of shoes and three-day provisions for 10,000 men.\nAlthough the Lord Eliot Convention put an end, or at least restrained the indiscriminate execution of prisoners, the Carlist usually did not abide to the agreement if they captured foreign combatants, particularly after Carlos of Bourbon promulgated the \"Durango decree\" stating that all foreign \"adventurers\" fighting with the Liberal forces should be shot immediately after surrender.\nMost of the Legion's troops who laid down their weapons in Andoain were in fact summarly tried for arson and executed in sight, or lynched by local residents, men and women, whose barns and properties had been burned to the ground by the British troops the previous days. The burning of civilian residences and farms had been already denounced at the Carlist Deputation at War on the session of 10 September. The crowd cried out in Euskara \"ez da cuartelic suematen duenentzat!\" (\"no quarter to the arsonists\"). Spanish sources put the number of executions there at 60. All the British soldiers captured at Andoain were forced to march to the rebel headquarters of Tolosa, where they were likewise massacred on the main square. British army sources from Pamplona reported instead that the British prisoners taken in Andoain were killed \"in situ\", exception made of 37 soldiers, 20 of them stabbed to death on the road to Tolosa and the remainder 17 executed by firing squad in the Carlist stronghold.\n\nThe British Auxiliary Legion ceased to exist as a useful fighting force, with a total of 500 casualties, which represents two-thirds of the Legion strength. Some authors claim the execution of some 150 officers and ranks after the battle. Alexander Sommerville lists 136 deaths, 131 of them from the Scotchs and the Rifles, without distinguish between killed in action and executed. Legion surgeon Henry Wilkinson and the British press of the time differ slightly from Sommerville, with 13 officers and 143 ratings either killed in action or massacred. Others sources referred to up to 25 officers killed. The heavy casualties, together with the chronic lack of payments and supplies owed by the Spanish government and the indifference of the British Crown led to the official dissolution of the Auxiliary Legion on 10 December 1837.\n\nSpanish Liberal troops losses amounted to 320 killed and wounded and 114 prisoners. Some of the officers were slain by Spanish and British Lancers while deserting their troops.\n\nUranga's army losses were minimal, with no more than 100 casualties, all of them wounded, according to some sources. Royal pretender Don Carlos celebrated the victory with a Te Deum at Tolosa, and established the \"Cruz de Andoain\" (\"Andoain Cross\"), a special decoration awarded to the Carlist soldiers who had taken part of the battle.\n\nThe northern front stabilised between Andoain and Urnieta for the rest of the war. Before marching back to Navarra, Uranga built a defensive line, manned by four battalions. The new fortifications were initially designed by Prussian engineer Hugo Strauss, later replaced by the Spanish Policarpo Fuentes, and built in a mere twelve days by 800 workers. \nThe Liberal army launched four limited offensives on the sector from October 1837 to June 1838, making modest gains, like the occupation of Lasarte and Urnieta. Elsewhere, the Royal Expedition eventually petered out outside Madrid, and the main Carlist army withdrew beyond the Ebro by October 1837, after being defeated at the Battle of Aranzueque.\n\nA reenactment of the battle is held every year at Andoain, the only event of this kind in the Basque Country related to the Carlist Wars.\n\n"}
{"id": "25066045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25066045", "title": "Chaldean Catholic Eparchy of Amadiyah and Zaku", "text": "Chaldean Catholic Eparchy of Amadiyah and Zaku\n\nChaldean Catholic Diocese of Zakho is a diocese of the Chaldean Church in the second half of the 19th century and for most of the 20th century. The diocese of Zakho was merged with the Chaldean diocese of Amadiya in 1987. In December 2001, a new bishop was consecrated. In July 2013, Zakho was suppressed to the Diocese of Amadiyah.\n\nThe diocese of Zakho was founded in 1851. The diocese included some villages in the western Khabur valley and the mountains to the northeast of Zakho previously in the diocese of Gazarta, and several villages in the Dohuk district previously in the diocese of Amadiya.\n\nThe first Chaldean bishop of Zakho was Emmanuel Asmar (1859–75).\n\nHe was succeeded by Quriaqos Giwargis Goga, a monk of the monastery of Rabban Hormizd, who was born in Telkepe on 15 January 1820 and ordained a priest in 1855. According to Tfinkdji he was consecrated for Zakho on 25 July 1875 by the patriarch Joseph VI Audo, but a manuscript note gives the date of his consecration as 1 August 1875. In 1876 Quriaqos Giwargis Goga rebelled against the patriarch and installed himself in the village of Telkepe in the patriarchal diocese of Mosul, where he was supported by most of the village's priests. Following an appeal to the Vatican by Joseph Audo, the two rebels eventually submitted, and Goga was transferred to the diocese of Amadiya in 1879.\n\nQuriaqos Goga was succeeded by Mattai Paul Shamina (1879–85) and Stephen Yohannan Qaynaya (1886–9).\n\nJeremy Timothy Maqdassi, who was born in Alqosh in 1847 and became a priest in 1879, was consecrated bishop of Zakho either in 1890 (De Clerq) or 1892 (Fiey), and remained its bishop until his death in 1929. He was succeeded by Peter Raffo Aziz (1929–37), Yohannan Nisan (1937–57), Thomas Rayyis (1957–66) and Gabriel Qoda (27 November 1965– 7 March 1968).\n\nGabriel Qoda, who died in March 1993, was succeeded as bishop of Zakho on 7 March 1968 by Joseph Babana. Joseph Babana died on 9 September 1973 at the age of 57, and was succeeded on 13 October 1973 by Yohannan Paulus Marcus.\n\nThe elderly Yohannan Paulus Marcus, who died on 13 July 1985 at the age of 75, was succeeded as bishop of Zakho by Stephen Kajo on 29 November 1983.\n\nFollowing the death of Stephen Kajo on 8 November 1987, the diocese of Zakho remained vacant for fourteen years. During this period the few remaining Chaldeans in the Zakho district remained under the care of Yohannan Qello, the bishop of Amadiya.\n\nIn December 2001 Petros Hanna Issa Al-Harboli was consecrated bishop of Zakho. After brief illness he died on November 3, 2010.\n\nIn July 2013, the Chaldean diocese of Amadiya was united with Zakho under Rabban al-Qas.\n\nIn 1867 the diocese of Zakho had a population of 3,000 Chaldeans and contained 15 villages (Martin).\n\nIn 1896 the diocese had a population of 3,500 Chaldeans, and contained 15 parishes and 20 churches (Chabot). The largest villages in the diocese were Zakho, Dohuk, Sharanesh, Yarda, Beidar, Bir Sivi, Mar Yaqob and Esnakh, and the bishop resided either at Zakho or Dohuk. The diocese then had ten indigenous priests and 5 priests who had been trained at the monastery of Rabban Hormizd.\n\nIn 1913 the diocese contained 15 villages and 17 churches and had a population of 4,880 Chaldeans, served by 13 priests (Tfinkdji).\n\n\"Chaldean communities in the diocese of Zakho, 1913\"\n\nA large number of Assyrian refugees settled in the Zakho district after the First World War, and their presence is reflected in later statistics for the diocese. In 1928, according to an official statistic prepared by the Congregation for the Oriental Churches, the diocese of Zakho included 16 villages and contained 8,000 Chaldeans and 18 churches. In 1937 the diocese included 23 villages, and contained 10,852 Chaldeans, 18 priests, and 16 churches (Kajo).\n\n"}
{"id": "9852313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9852313", "title": "Claude-François Ménestrier", "text": "Claude-François Ménestrier\n\nClaude-François Ménestrier (9 March 1631 – 21 January 1705) was a French heraldist, a member of the Society of Jesus [Jesuit], and attendant of the royal court.\n\nMénestrier was born in Lyon. He composed numerous books on heraldry, in which he was one of the greatest authorities of his age, the professor of the colleges in Chambéry, Vienne, Grenoble, and Lyon. During 1669-70 he traveled to Germany and Italy, but reached Paris and lived there to his death. He was the most widely known heraldist of his time, and was from 1622 in close correspondence with Philipp Jakob Spener, the founder of the German scientific heraldry who refused the merely symbolic interpretation of arms. Ménestrier maintained that we can know the essence of heraldry only from the sources from the age of living heraldry but he was also influenced by the heraldic view of his age. Thus, his researches were abortive.\n\nMénestrier's essays \"On Ancient and Modern Musical Productions\" (\"Des Représentations en musique anciennes et modernes\", 1681) and \"On Ancient and Modern Ballets, After The Rules of Theatre\" (\"Des Ballets anciens et modernes selon les règles du théâtre\", 1682) were influential in the development of ballet as a dramatic concert dance style capable of expressing a wide range of emotion and narrating a complex story, drawing upon accounts of ancient Roman pantomime.\n\nMénestrier was also a numismatist and antiquary. In 1689 he published his \"Histoire du Roy Louis le Grand par les médailles. emblêmes, devises, jettons, inscriptions, armoiries, et autres monumens publics\". The book was the first antiquarian history of a modern individual, and largely used medals drawn from the collection of Père François de la Chaise. It also covered jettons and heraldic devices.\n\nUnfortunately for Ménestrier a pirated 1691 Dutch edition included five pages of anti-Louis medals, harming Ménestrier's position at court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58969905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58969905", "title": "Console (heraldry)", "text": "Console (heraldry)\n\nA console in heraldry is a decorative frame or support surrounding a heraldic shield or escutcheon. \n\nThe term derives from the compound Latin verb \"consolor\" \"to alleviate, lighten\", from the verb \"solor\", \"to assuage, soothe, relieve, mitigate\", plus the preposition \"con/com/cum\", \"with\". It thus serves to add interest to and mitigate the harshness of the stark outline of the shield, were used primarily for decorative purposes, rather than for its original purpose of identifying a knight in battle. The term \"console\" in architecture is generally used for elements which provide support, such as corbels on a console table.\n"}
{"id": "24768341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24768341", "title": "Council of Tarragona", "text": "Council of Tarragona\n\nThe Council of Tarragona was two distinct Council of the Roman Catholic Church held in the city of Tarragona, in Catalonia, Spain.\n\nThe Council of Tarragona was held by Archbishop John of Tarragona, on 6 November 516. This council assembled all the bishops of his province, thus becoming the first provincial council of Tarragona. There were ten bishops were present. In 517 he assembled another provincial council in Girona.\n\nA second council was held at Tarragona in 1234 to regulate the procedure of the Inquisition, which had begun in 1233. and to also ratify the findings of the Toulouse Council.\n\nCanon two of this second Council of Tarragona also restated the cannon of the Council of Toulouse held two years before. \"“No one may possess the books of the Old and New Testaments, and if anyone possesses them he must turn them over to the local bishop within eight days, so that they may be burned…”\"\n"}
{"id": "5208495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5208495", "title": "David Williams (historian)", "text": "David Williams (historian)\n\nDavid Williams (1900 – 1978) was a Welsh historian.\n\nWilliams was born at Llan-y-Cefn, Pembrokeshire.\n\nFrom 1945 until his retirement in 1967, Williams was Professor of Welsh History in the University of Wales. He is best known for his classic \"History of Modern Wales\".\n\n"}
{"id": "464273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464273", "title": "Episode", "text": "Episode\n\nAn episode is a coherent narrative unit within a larger dramatic work, such as a radio or television series. The word derives from the Greek term () (\"epeisodion\"), meaning the material contained between two songs or odes in a Greek tragedy.\n\nAn episode is a coherent narrative unit within a larger dramatic work. It is frequently used to describe units of television or radio series. An episode is to a sequence as a chapter is to a book. Modern series episodes typically last 20 to 40 minutes in length.\n\nThe word derives from the Greek term () (\"epeisodion\"), meaning the material contained between two songs or odes in a Greek tragedy.\n\nEpisode is abbreviated as ep (\"plural\" eps).\n\n"}
{"id": "2368634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2368634", "title": "Ernst Kantorowicz", "text": "Ernst Kantorowicz\n\nErnst Hartwig Kantorowicz (May 3, 1895 – September 9, 1963) was a German-American historian of medieval political and intellectual history and art, known for his 1927 book \"Kaiser Friedrich der Zweite\" on Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II, and \"The King's Two Bodies\" (1957) on medieval and early modern ideologies of monarchy and the state.\n\nKantorowicz was born in Posen (then part of Prussia) to a wealthy, assimilated German-Jewish family and as a young man was groomed to take over his family's prosperous liquor distillery business. He served as an officer in the German Army for four years in World War I. After the war, he matriculated at the University of Berlin to study economics, at one point also joining a right-wing militia that fought against Polish forces in the Greater Poland Uprising (1918–1919) and helped put down the Spartacist uprising in Berlin. The following year, he transferred briefly to the University of Munich, where once again he was involved in armed clashes between leftists and pro-government militias, but soon thereafter settled on the University of Heidelberg where he continued to enroll in economics courses while developing a broader interest in Arabic, Islamic Studies, history, and geography. While in Heidelberg, Kantorowicz became involved with the so-called Georgekreis, a group of artists and intellectuals devoted to the German symbolist poet and aesthete Stefan George, believing that George's poetry and philosophy would become the foundation of a great revival of the nationalist spirit in post-war Germany. In 1921, Kantorowicz was awarded a doctorate supervised by Eberhard Gothein based on a slim dissertation on \"artisan associations\" in the Muslim world.\n\nAlthough his degree was in Islamic economic history, Kantorowicz's interests soon turned to the European Middle Ages and to ideas about kingship in particular. His association with the elitist and culturally conservative Georgekreis inspired Kantorowicz to undertake writing a sweeping and highly unorthodox biography of the great Holy Roman emperor Frederick II, published in German in 1927 and English in 1931. Instead of offering a more typical survey of laws, institutions, and important political and military achievements of Frederick's reign, the book struck a distinctly panegyrical tone, portraying Frederick as a tragic hero and the idealized embodiment of the German nation. It included no footnotes and seemed to elide historical events with more fanciful legends and propagandistic literary depictions. The work elicited a combination of bewilderment and criticism from the mainstream historical academy. Reviewers complained that it was literary myth-making and not a work of serious historical scholarship. As a result, Kantorowicz published a hefty companion volume (\"Ergänzungsband\") in 1931 which contained detailed historical documentation for the biography.\n\nDespite the furor over the Frederick book, and not having written a formal \"Habilitationsschrift\" (second thesis to qualify for a professorial appointment), Kantorowicz received an (honorary) professorship at the University of Frankfurt in 1930. By 1933, however, Kantorowicz had to cease giving lectures due to increasing pressure on Jewish academics under the new Nazi regime. After taking several leaves of absence, he was finally granted an early retirement with a pension in 1935. He remained in Germany until 1938, when after the Kristallnacht riots it became clear that the situation for even assimilated Jews such as himself was no longer tenable. He accepted a teaching position for a short time at Oxford before taking up a lectureship at the University of California - Berkeley in 1939. After several years, Kantorowicz was able to secure a permanent professorship, but in 1950, he famously resigned in protest when the UC Regents demanded that all continuing faculty sign a loyalty oath disavowing affiliation with any politically subversive movements. Kantorowicz insisted he was no leftist and pointed to his role in an anti-communist militia as a young university student, but nonetheless objected on principle to an instrument which he viewed as a blatant infringement on academic freedom and freedom of conscience more generally. During the controversy in Berkeley, two eminent German émigré medievalists working in Princeton, Theodore Mommsen (grandson of the great classical historian) and the art historian Erwin Panofsky, persuaded J. Robert Oppenheimer, director of the prestigious Institute for Advanced Study, to appoint Kantorowicz to the Institute's faculty of Historical Studies. Kantorowicz accepted and moved to Princeton, where he remained for the rest of his career.\n\nIn 1957, Kantorowicz published his masterpiece, \"The King's Two Bodies\", which explored, in the words of the volume's subtitle, \"medieval political theology.\" The book traced the ways in which theologians, historians, and canon lawyers in the Middle Ages and early modern period understood \"the king\" as both a mortal individual and an institution which transcends time. Drawing on a diverse array of textual and visual sources, including Shakespeare and Dante, \"The King's Two Bodies\" made a major contribution to the way historians and political scientists came to understand the evolution of ideas about authority and charisma vested in a single individual versus transpersonal conceptions of the realm or the state in pre-modern Europe. The book remains a classic in the field.\n\nKantorowicz died in his home in Princeton of an aortic aneurysm at age 68. \nKantorowicz was the subject of a controversial biographical sketch in the book \"Inventing the Middle Ages\" (1991) by the medievalist Norman F. Cantor. Cantor suggested that, but for his Jewish heritage, the young Kantorowicz could be considered a Nazi in terms of his intellectual temperament and cultural values. Cantor compared Kantorowicz with another contemporary German medievalist, Percy Ernst Schramm, who worked on similar topics and later joined the Nazi Party and served as the staff diarist for the German High Command during the war. Kantorowicz's defenders (particularly his student Robert L. Benson) responded that although as a younger man Kantorowicz embraced the Romantic ultranationalism of the George-Kreis, he had only contempt for Nazism and was a vocal critic of Hitler's regime, both before and after the war.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23821222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23821222", "title": "Fritz Reuter Literary Archive", "text": "Fritz Reuter Literary Archive\n\nThe Fritz Reuter Literary Archive (FRLA - Fritz Reuter Literaturarchiv) in Berlin, Germany collects autographs and manuscripts by 19th century authors from Mecklenburg, as well as editions of their works. The collections primarily include Fritz Reuter (1810–1874), who wrote mostly in Low German, and Ida Gräfin Hahn-Hahn (1805–1880), who wrote primarily in High German. During the 19th century these two novelists, with Mecklenburgian roots, were counted among the most widely read authors by the German, as well as the reading public in other countries.\n\nThe Fritz Reuter Literary Archive came into being during the early 1970s, based on private initiative, and literary interest in Fritz Reuter. Its founder is Hans-Joachim Griephan, journalist and former editor, who originally hails from Mecklenburg. The archive tries to be a gathering and documenting site for Fritz Reuter, his time and his contemporaries. Included as well are authors who influenced Reuter literarily, who see themselves in the tradition of Fritz Reuter, have done research on Fritz Reuter and his time, or have written about Fritz Reuter and his works.\nThe holdings of the FRLA also include other significant autographs and manuscripts, especially those with ties to Mecklenburg. Beyond those holdings, FRLA includes material by Fritz Reuter and Ida Hahn-Hahn (whole editions of their works, partial editions, translations into foreign languages, essays on their lives, influences, pictures and views pertaining to them, literature of their times, collections of as well as articles from newspapers and magazines). The autographs and manuscripts of the FRLA include whole albums, pages from albums, dedications, drawings (by Fritz Reuter), letters, postcards, manuscripts as well as documents and files.\n\nSeparate holdings contain, among other items, examples of texts and other papers by the preacher and poet Ernst Theodor Johann Brückner and the Neubrandenburg Brückner Family, of Reuter’s publisher Dethloff Carl Hinstorff and the Hinstorff Court Publishing House in Wismar/Mecklenburg, as well as those of Ida Countess Hahn-Hahn and Friedrich Griese.\n\nThe FRLA collections contain (in selections) material by and on:\n"}
{"id": "34576694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34576694", "title": "George Macdonald (historian)", "text": "George Macdonald (historian)\n\nGeorge Ranald Macdonald (4 October 1891 – 13 December 1967) was a New Zealand farmer and historian. He compiled the \"MacDonald dictionary of Canterbury biographies\", a collection of 12,000 biographies held by the Canterbury Museum.\n\nMacdonald was born in the Christchurch suburb of St Albans in 1891. His parents were Gertrude Gould and Ranald Macintosh Macdonald, and George Gould was his uncle. He attended school at French Farm on Banks Peninsula, and Christ's College in Christchurch. He was then sent to study history at Christ Church College at the University of Oxford in England, from where he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in 1912, and a Master of Arts in 1919. He was a qualified lawyer but rarely practised in that profession. His education was interrupted by World War I, where he saw active service for the British Army after having been rejected by New Zealand forces due to his poor eyesight. After various assignments, he was with the Royal Tank Corps, was wounded on three occasions, and received the Military Cross in January 1919. His citation reads:\n\nFor conspicuous gallantry and devotion to duty. This officer, though wounded shortly after zero hours, continued to supervise the carrying-up of supplies to the battalion with which he was working, in one case reconnoitring a village which was still occupied by the enemy. He refused to be medically treated until his section was withdrawn.\n\nWhen back in New Zealand, he married Beatrice Mary (Wina) Clifford of Stonyhurst Station at Waipara on 14 February 1922; they were to have four sons. She was the granddaughter of Sir Charles Clifford, 1st Baronet, one of the station's founders. His first farming venture failed. When his father died in 1928, he inherited Lowry Hills near Cheviot. Disillusioned with farming, he sold his farm, bought another, and then retired to Woodend.\n\nIn his retirement, Macdonald compiled the \"MacDonald dictionary of Canterbury biographies\", a collection of 12,000 biographies held by the Canterbury Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "54865762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54865762", "title": "Graeme Morton (historian)", "text": "Graeme Morton (historian)\n\nGraeme Morton is a Scottish academic historian who has occupied the Chair of Modern History at the University of Dundee since 2013.\n\nMorton completed a master of arts degree (MA) in economic and social history and sociology in 1989, and a doctorate of philosophy (PhD) at the University of Edinburgh in 1993; his doctoral thesis was entitled \"Unionist-nationalism: the historical construction of Scottish national identity, Edinburgh, 1830–1860\". He lectured at Edinburgh from 1992 until 2004, when he was appointed to the new Scottish Studies Foundation Chair at the University of Guelph; while in this post, he was Director of the university's Centre for Scottish Studies. In 2013, he returned to Scotland as Professor of Modern History at the University of Dundee; he remained an Adjunct Professor of History at Guelph.\n\nMorton's research interests include Scottish national identity and nationalism (including the significance of William Wallace), as well as the urban history of Scotland, and civil society and associational activity. His published works include:\n"}
{"id": "21468585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21468585", "title": "Hans Try", "text": "Hans Try\n\nHans Try (1934–1990) was a Norwegian archivist and historian.\n\nHe hailed from Søgne. He started as an ethnologist, but later took the cand.philol. degree in history. He worked in the National Archival Services branch in Kristiansand from 1975. His main work was \"To kulturer - en stat. 1851-1884\", volume eleven of the overview of Norwegian history, \"Norges historie\", published by Cappelen and edited by Knut Mykland.\n\nHe was a deputy board member of the Norwegian Institute of Local History from 1986 to 1989 and of the Staet Museum Council from 1987 to 1990.\n\nHe died in 1990.\n"}
{"id": "9735934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9735934", "title": "Helena Concannon", "text": "Helena Concannon\n\nHelena Concannon (; 28 October 1878 – 27 February 1952) was an Irish historian, writer, language scholar and Fianna Fáil politician.\n\nBorn in Maghera, County Londonderry, she attended secondary school in Dublin in Loreto North Great Georges Street and Loreto Stephen's Green. She attended university at the Royal University of Ireland in Belfast and then the National University of Ireland. She also studied abroad at the Sorbonne University Paris, Berlin University and in Rome. She was Professor of History at University College Galway. In her youth Helena, as well as her husband, was a member of \"The Irish Fireside Club\", which in the 1880s was the largest children's association in Ireland where children took responsibility upon themselves to teach others and themselves to make Ireland a better place.\n\nMany of her writings were on the subject of Irish women, including \"Canon Sheehan's Woman Characters\" (1910), \"Women of Ninety Eight\" (1919), \"Daughters of Banba\" (1922), \"The Poor Clares in Ireland\" (1929), and \"Irish nuns in penal days\" (1931).\n\nShe was first elected to Dáil Éireann as a Fianna Fáil Teachta Dála (TD) at the 1933 general election for the National University of Ireland constituency. At the 1938 general election, she was elected to Seanad Éireann for the National University of Ireland constituency. She was re-elected at each successive election and served in the Seanad until her death in 1952.\n\nHer husband was the Irish scholar Tomás Bán Ó Conceanainn (Thomas Concannon), a national health inspector, and she authored several books as \"Mrs Thomas Concannon\".\n\nHelena Concannon was an excellent student being educated by the Loreto nuns in Coleraine. In 1897, Helena Concannon studied modern languages at the Royal University of Ireland on a three-year scholarship. She studied abroad during these years as in 1899, she travelled to Germany and studied German in Berlin University accompanied by her friend, Mary Macken. Concannon then travelled to France to study French in Sorbonne. In 1900, Concannon graduated Bachelor of Arts with first class honours and went on to study Master of Arts in 1902 at the Royal University of Ireland. Concannon was fortunate to being one of the first generation of educated women.<ref name=\"Paseta, S.P. (2005), Oxford Dictionary of National Biography. Available at: http://www.oxforddnb.com/view/article/50993\"></ref>\n\nIn 1906, Concannon married Thomas Concannon who she met in 1900, when he arrived home from America. They settled down in Co.Galway where they shared the same love for the Irish Language and wrote many Irish texts. In Galway, Concannon was a professor at the University of Galway where she taught history, which mainly involved the history of Irish Women. In 1909, Concannon was offered a lectureship at University of College Dublin, in Italian, but the offer was then drawn before she could accept, so she decided to pursue the writing career.\n\nIn 1909 she was offered a lecturer position at University College Dublin and after the offer was withdrawn she began her writing career. She produced over twenty books and published a number of works on religion, history of Ireland and Irish women's history. Her works were highly impacted by her political and nationalist views. Helena's 'analyses of Irish history was based on Catholicism and patriotism'. She was also an advocate of Irish language restoration.\n\nHer first writings were love poems to her husband Thomas Concannon. These poems were 'simple, sensuous and passionate'.\n\nShe also produced a number of imaginative historical text for children. She used her married name for her publications and her first book was published in 1914 titled as A Garden of girls, or the famous schoolgirls of former days, it was about 'school life and education of real little girls'. Her next well known piece was the Life of st. Columban in 1915, which was a study about the Irish ancient monastic life and a biography of a sixth-century.\n\nTwo of her books, Daughters of Banba (1922) and St. Patrick (1932), received the Tailteann Medal for Literature, and The Poor Clares in Ireland (1929) won the National University Prize a DLitt higher doctorate degree for historical research.\n\nHer most common publication the Women of Ninety Eight was dedicated to all the dead women and all the living ones who have given their loved ones. This book emerged on the ideologies of Catholicism and patriotism \"praising the devotion of Irish nationalist women while emphasising the centrality of women's spiritual and domestic role in the home to the well-being of the nation\" As this work was written during the time of War of Independence, Helena Concannon stressed the importance of women help during the rebellion as \"they acted as messengers and intelligence officers\", and in some cases, they fought as any men.\n\nHelena Concannon started her political career in the Dáil, she was in the Dáil from 8 February 1933, after the 1933 general election, until 14 June 1937. She was as a Fianna Fáil Teachta Dála (TD) for the National University of Ireland constituency. She was a part of the 8th Dáil, in which Fianna Fail leader Eamonn DeValera took the presidency of the executive council from W.T Cosgrave, making him the second President of the Executive Council of Ireland. Her constituency 'National University of Ireland' also had two other TDs representing in the same Dáil, Mr Conor Alexander Maguire, a fellow Fianna Fail member and Mr. Patrick McGilligan who was part of the Fine Gael party. Her session of the Dáil had 153 seats.\n\nConcannon, in 1933, voted 'Yes' along with 81 others for Eamonn De Valera to the President of the Executive Council.\n\nIn 1935, she voted for 'The Control of Imports Orders' Quota 2 and Quota 3 along with 65 other TDs in the first and 60 others in the latter. She voted yes with the majority on every issue posed on 13 February 1935\n\nShe voted 'No' to for the Dáil to condemn the Executive Council for 'its neglect to secure a quota for the export of cattle to Great Britain adequate to the needs of our agricultural industry.'—(Patrick Hogan, Richard Curran.)on the issue of Exporting cattle to England, with the majority.\n\nShe voted 'No' to for the Dáil to condemn the Executive Council for 'its neglect to secure a quota for the export of cattle to Great Britain adequate to the needs of our agricultural industry.'—(Patrick Hogan, Richard Curran.)on the issue of Exporting cattle to England, with the majority.\n\nConcerning the 'Land Purchase (Guarantee Fund) Bill, 1935' which according to Mr. Bennet would have negatively impacted the rural middle class of which he was a representative, Bennet accuses Concannon and her fellow Dublin men of not caring about the people of the country \"If Deputy Kelly, Deputy Donnelly or Deputy Mrs. Concannon were asked to apply a retrospective liability of this character to the citizens of Dublin, would they comply with the request? They know they would not. Because this Bill affects, in the main, the hardworking agriculturists, Deputy Kelly, Deputy Mrs. Concannon and other City Deputies can view it with equanimity.\"-Bennet Concannon went on to vote that the Dail should disagree with the Seanad propose bill with 71 others\n\nThough, she was a TD in the Dail as a University representative, she voted to annexe University representation in the Dail, in following with her parties views. Leading to one TD saying \" I am very much surprised to see such a distinguished scholar and such a great contributor to Irish literature as Deputy Mrs. Concannon voting for the disfranchisement of the University that she has so well and so ably represented. \"-Mr. J.M. Burke\n\nConcannon stays silent through the duration of this debate causing one TD to voice how he has yet to hear her speak \"About Deputy Mrs. Concannon I can say less, because I have not had the pleasure of hearing her speak.\" He then goes on to accuse her of party politics\" I have noticed, however, that she votes with commendable—I do not know whether I should say commendable—but at any rate with complete regularity in the Lobby of her particular Party, and that she never strays into the other Lobby by chance or accident. It seems to me that even if a University representative is a member of a Party he should have that extra little amount of detachment that would guide him sometimes into the opposite Lobby from his Party, because no Party can be always right.\" Mr. MacDermot\n\nShe did not respond that day, but the next day when discussions on the subject began again, she opened the talks. Sticking with her party's view that University constituents shouldn't be separated from other constituents giving the figure that out of 2000 student voters who voted for her only one wrote in to say university representation should continue and that she read that to her party but as it was only one who wanted this, she was representing her university constituents by voting the university TDs should be abolished. She voted this way and won. Although the Chair of the Dail said after the vote had been won by Concannon's side \"I am certifying the Constitution (Amendment No. 23) Bill, 1934, under Article 38A of the Constitution, as containing only such modification as is necessary owing to the time which has elapsed since that Bill was first sent by the Dáil to the Seanad.\"\n\nLater on when the amendment seemed not to be taking place Concannon placed a question asking about whether moves have been made to begin the process to which W.T. Cosgrave responded that Concannon had been forced to ask the question \"The Minister wants to introduce legislation to deal with this, but he has not got the legislation yet. He hopes that, by the time the legislation is introduced, this thing will be all right. The Minister knows well that this is a nice mess that he has got us into. He had to get Deputy Mrs. Concannon, a University representative, to ask a question about it so as to try and make the case that he knows something about it. Is not that the whole sum and substance of it?\"\n\nConcannon spoke on behalf of Irish women in the Dáil in 1936. She spoke on how Irish women a fundamental role in Ireland's agricultural economy and so more money should be put towards educating these women.\n\nConcannon didn't object to Bunreacht na hEireann the constitution put forward by her party man De Valera, although many women at the time did.\n\nShe did not contest the Dáil election of 1937\n\nHelena Concannon was elected in the 1938 general election to the Seanad Eireann for the National University of Ireland constituency. She was a popular figure and was re-elected by voters each election in the Seanad until she died in 1952. Concannon was one of the minority voices against the part appointed to women De Valera's constitution. Helena was a member of the Seaned for 8 years.\n\nHelena's very first year in the Seanad was in 1938. She was a member for a year and then was re-elected by popular vote in the next general election. She spent the next five years of her life (1938-1943) in the 3rd Seanad with the party Fianna Fáil. In 1944 she was voted back in again until 1948, and so on until her death in February 1952.\n\nHelena Cocannon was not the only senator elected for the National University of Ireland. She was elected alongside Dr. Henry Leo Barniville and Professor Micheal Tierney. Helena wanted Senator Sean Goulding to by the cathaoirlech of the Seanad. She was the first person to talk about nominating Senator Sean Goulding and after she did he won a place in the Seanad. She mentions that he was patient and helpful with everyone, and they all had to step in and help.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "503345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=503345", "title": "High Middle Ages", "text": "High Middle Ages\n\nThe High Middle Ages, or High Medieval Period, was the period of European history that commenced around 1000 and lasted until around 1250. The High Middle Ages were preceded by the Early Middle Ages and were followed by the Late Middle Ages, which by convention, ended around 1500.\n\nKey historical trends of the High Middle Ages include the rapidly increasing population of Europe, which brought about great social and political change from the preceding era, and the Renaissance of the 12th century, including the first developments of rural exodus and of urbanization. By 1250, the robust population increase had greatly benefited the European economy, which reached levels that would not be seen again in some areas until the 19th century. That trend faltered during the Late Middle Ages because of a series of calamities, most notably the Black Death, but also numerous wars as well as economic stagnation.\n\nFrom around 780, Europe saw the last of the barbarian invasions and became more socially and politically organized. The Carolingian Renaissance led to scientific and philosophical activity in Northern Europe. The first universities started operating in Bologna, Paris, Oxford and Modena. The Vikings settled in the British Isles, France and elsewhere, and Norse Christian kingdoms started developing in their Scandinavian homelands. The Magyars ceased their expansion in the 10th century, and by the year 1000, a Christian Kingdom of Hungary had become a recognized state in Central Europe that was forming alliances with regional powers. With the brief exception of the Mongol invasions in the 13th century, major nomadic incursions ceased. The powerful Byzantine Empire of the Macedonian and the Komnenos dynasties gradually gave way to the resurrected Serbia and Bulgaria and to a successor crusader state (1204 to 1261), which countered the continuous threat of the Seljuk Turks in Asia Minor.\n\nIn the 11th century, populations north of the Alps began a more intensive settlement, targeting \"new\" lands, some of which areas had reverted to wilderness after the end of the Roman Empire. In what is known as the \"great clearances\", Europeans cleared and cultivated some of the vast forests and marshes that lay across of the continent. At the same time, some settlers moved beyond the traditional boundaries of the Frankish Empire to new frontiers beyond the Elbe River, which tripled the size of Germany in the process. The Catholic Church, which reached the peak of its political power around then, called armies from across Europe to a series of Crusades against the Seljuk Turks. The crusaders occupied the Holy Land and founded the Crusader States in the Levant. Other wars led to the Northern Crusades. The Christian kingdoms took much of the Iberian Peninsula from Muslim control, and the Normans conquered southern Italy, all part of the major population increases and the resettlement patterns of the era.\n\nThe High Middle Ages produced many different forms of intellectual, spiritual and artistic works. The age also saw the rise of ethnocentrism, which evolved later into modern civic nationalisms in most of Europe, the ascent of the great Italian city-states and the rise and fall of the Muslim civilization of Al-Andalus. The rediscovery of the works of Aristotle led Thomas Aquinas and other thinkers of the period to expand Scholasticism, a combination of Catholicism and ancient philosophy. For much of this period, Constantinople remained Europe's most populous city, and Byzantine art reached a peak in the 12th century. In architecture, many of the most notable Gothic cathedrals were built or completed around this period.\n\nThe Crisis of the Late Middle Ages began at the start of the 14th century and marked the end of the period.\n\nIn England, the Norman Conquest of 1066 resulted in a kingdom ruled by a Francophone nobility. The Normans invaded Ireland by force in 1169 and soon established themselves throughout most of the country, although their stronghold was the southeast. Likewise, Scotland and Wales were subdued to vassalage at about the same time, though Scotland later asserted its independence and Wales remained largely under the rule of independent native princes until the death of Llywelyn ap Gruffydd in 1282. The Exchequer was founded in the 12th century under King Henry I, and the first parliaments were convened. In 1215, after the loss of Normandy, King John signed the Magna Carta into law, which limited the power of English monarchs.\n\nMuch of the Iberian peninsula had been occupied by the Moors after 711, although the northernmost portion was divided between several Christian states. In the 11th century, and again in the thirteenth, the Christian kingdoms of the north gradually drove the Muslims from central and most of southern Iberia.\n\nIn Italy, independent city states grew affluent on eastern maritime trade. These were in particular the thalassocracies of Pisa, Amalfi, Genoa and Venice.\nFrom the mid-tenth to the mid-11th centuries, the Scandinavian kingdoms were unified and Christianized, resulting in an end of Viking raids, and greater involvement in European politics. King Cnut of Denmark ruled over both England and Norway. After Cnut's death in 1035, England and Norway were lost, and with the defeat of Valdemar II in 1227, Danish predominance in the region came to an end. Meanwhile, Norway extended its Atlantic possessions, ranging from Greenland to the Isle of Man, while Sweden, under Birger Jarl, built up a power-base in the Baltic Sea. However, the Norwegian influence started to decline already in the same period, marked by the Treaty of Perth of 1266. Also, civil wars raged in Norway between 1130 and 1240.\n\nBy the time of the High Middle Ages, the Carolingian Empire had been divided and replaced by separate successor kingdoms called France and Germany, although not with their modern boundaries. Germany was under the banner of the Holy Roman Empire, which reached its high-water mark of unity and political power.\n\nDuring the successful reign of King David IV of Georgia (1089–1125), Kingdom of Georgia grew in strength and expelled the Seljuk Empire from its lands. David's decisive victory in the Battle of Didgori (1121) against the Seljuk Turks, as a result of which Georgia recaptured its lost capital Tbilisi, marked the beginning of the Georgian Golden Age. David's granddaughter Queen Tamar continued the upward rise, successfully neutralizing internal opposition and embarking on an energetic foreign policy aided by further decline of the hostile Seljuk Turks. Relying on a powerful military élite, Tamar was able to build on the successes of her predecessors to consolidate an empire which dominated vast lands spanning from present-day southern Russia on the Black Sea to the Caspian Sea. Georgia remained a leading regional power until its collapse under the Mongol attacks within two decades after Tamar's death.\n\nIn the High Middle Ages, the Kingdom of Hungary (founded in 1000), became one of the most powerful medieval states in central Europe and Western Europe. King Saint Stephen I of Hungary introduced Christianity to the region; he was remembered by the contemporary chroniclers as a very religious monarch, with wide knowledge in Latin grammar, strict with his own people but kind to the foreigners. He eradicated the remnants of the tribal organisation in the Kingdom and forced the people to sedentarize and adopt the Christian religion, ethics, way of life and founded the Hungarian medieval state, organising it politically in counties using the Germanic system as a model.\n\nThe following monarchs usually kept a close relationship with Rome like Saint Ladislaus I of Hungary, and a tolerant attitude with the pagans that escaped to the Kingdom searching for sanctuary (for example Cumans in the 13th century), which eventually created certain discomfort for some Popes. With entering in Personal union with the Kingdom of Croatia and annexation of other small states, Hungary became a small empire that extended its control over the Balkans and all the Carpathian region. The Hungarian royal house was the one that gave the most saints to the Catholic Church during medieval times.\n\nDuring the High Middle Ages Poland emerged as a kingdom. It decided to bond itself with the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, confirmed by the Union of Krewo and later treaties, leading to a personal union in 1569.\n\nThe High Middle Ages saw the height and decline of the Slavic state of Kievan Rus' and emergence of Cumania. Later, the Mongol invasion in the 13th century had great impact on the east of Europe, as many countries of the region were invaded, pillaged, conquered and/or vassalized.\n\nDuring the first half of this period (1185) the Byzantine Empire dominated the Balkans, and under the Komnenian emperors there was a revival of prosperity and urbanization; however, their domination of Southeastern Europe came to an end with a successful Vlach-Bulgarian rebellion in 1185, and henceforth the region was divided between the Byzantines in Greece, some parts of Macedonia, and Thrace, the Bulgarians in Moesia and most of Thrace and Macedonia, and the Serbs to the northwest. Eastern and Western churches had formally split in the 11th century, and despite occasional periods of co-operation during the 12th century, in 1204 the Fourth Crusade treacherously captured Constantinople. This severely damaged the Byzantines, and their power was ultimately weakened by the Seljuks and the rising Ottoman Empire in the 14-15th century. The power of the Latin Empire, however, was short lived after the Crusader army was routed by Bulgarian Emperor Kaloyan in the Battle of Adrianople (1205).\n\nThe Medieval Warm Period, the period from 10th century to about the 14th century in Europe, was a relatively warm and gentle interval ended by the generally colder Little Ice Age. Farmers grew wheat well north into Scandinavia, and wine grapes in northern England, although the maximum expansion of vineyards appears to occur within the Little Ice Age period. During this time, a high demand for wine and steady volume of alcohol consumption inspired a viticulture revolution of progress. This protection from famine allowed Europe's population to increase, despite the famine in 1315 that killed 1.5 million people. This increased population contributed to the founding of new towns and an increase in industrial and economic activity during the period. They also established trade and a comprehensive production of alcohol. Food production also increased during this time as new ways of farming were introduced, including the use of a heavier plow, horses instead of oxen, and a three-field system that allowed the cultivation of a greater variety of crops than the earlier two-field system—notably legumes, the growth of which prevented the depletion of important nitrogen from the soil.\n\nHousehold heavy cavalry (knights) became common in the 11th century across Europe, and tournaments were invented. Although the heavy capital investment in horse and armor was a barrier to entry, knighthood became known as a way for serfs to earn their freedom. In the 12th century, the Cluny monks promoted ethical warfare and inspired the formation of orders of chivalry, such as the Templar Knights. Inherited titles of nobility were established during this period. In 13th-century Germany, knighthood became another inheritable title, although one of the less prestigious, and the trend spread to other countries.\n\nThe East–West Schism of 1054 formally separated the Christian church into two parts: Western Catholicism in Western Europe and Eastern Orthodoxy in the east. It occurred when Pope Leo IX and Patriarch Michael I excommunicated each other, mainly over disputes as to the existence of papal authority over the four Eastern patriarchs, as well as disagreement over the filioque.\n\nThe Crusades occurred between the 11th and 13th centuries. They were conducted under papal authority with the intent of reestablishing Christian rule in \"The Holy Land\" by taking the area from the Muslim Fatimid Caliphate. The Fatimids had captured Palestine in AD 970, lost it to the Seljuk Turks in 1073 and recaptured it in 1098, just before they lost it again in 1099 as a result of the First Crusade.\n\nIn the context of the crusades, monastic military orders were founded that would become the template for the late medieval chivalric orders.\n\nThe Knights Templar were a Christian military order founded after the First Crusade to help protect Christian pilgrims from hostile locals and highway bandits. The order was deeply involved in banking, and in 1307 Philip the Fair (Philippine le Bel) had the entire order arrested in France and dismantled on charges of heresy.\n\nThe Knights Hospitaller were originally a Christian organization founded in Jerusalem in 1080 to provide care for poor, sick, or injured pilgrims to the Holy Land. After Jerusalem was taken in the First Crusade, it became a religious/military order that was charged with the care and defence of the Holy Lands. After the Holy Lands were eventually taken by Muslim forces, it moved its operations to Rhodes, and later Malta.\n\nThe Teutonic Knights were a German religious order formed in 1190, in the city of Acre, to both aid Christian pilgims on their way to the Holy Lands and to operate hospitals for the sick and injured in Extremer. After Muslim forces captured the Holy Lands, the order moved to Transylvania in 1211 and later, after being expelled, invaded pagan Prussic with the intention of Christianizing the Baltic region. Yet, before and after the Order's main pagan opponent, Lithuania, converted to Christianity, the Order had already attacked other Christian nations such as Novgorod and Poland. The Teutonic Knights' power hold, which became considerable, was broken in 1410, at the Battle of Grunwald, where the Order suffered a devastating defeat against a joint Polish-Lithuanian army. After Grunwald, the Order declined in power until 1809 when it was officially dissolved. There were ten crusades in total.\n\nThe new Christian method of learning was influenced by Anselm of Canterbury (1033–1109) from the rediscovery of the works of Aristotle, at first indirectly through Medieval Jewish and Muslim Philosophy (Maimonides, Avicenna, and Averroes) and then through Aristotle's own works brought back from Byzantine and Muslim libraries; and those whom he influenced, most notably Albertus Magnus, Bonaventure and Abélard. Many scholastics believed in empiricism and supporting Roman Catholic doctrines through secular study, reason, and logic. They opposed Christian mysticism, and the Platonist-Augustinian belief that the mind is an immaterial substance. The most famous of the scholastics was Thomas Aquinas (later declared a \"Doctor of the Church\"), who led the move away from the Platonic and Augustinian and towards Aristotelianism. Aquinas developed a philosophy of mind by writing that the mind was at birth a \"tabula rasa\" (\"blank slate\") that was given the ability to think and recognize forms or ideas through a divine spark. Other notable scholastics included Roscelin, Abélard, Peter Lombard, and Francisco Suárez. One of the main questions during this time was the problem of universals. Prominent opponents of various aspects of the scholastic mainstream included Duns Scotus, William of Ockham, Peter Damian, Bernard of Clairvaux, and the Victorines. \n\n\n\nChristian heresies existed in Europe before the 11th century but only in small numbers and of local character: in most cases, a rogue priest, or a village returning to pagan traditions. Beginning in the 11th century, however mass-movement heresies appeared. The roots of this can be partially sought in the rise of urban cities, free merchants, and a new money-based economy. The rural values of monasticism held little appeal to urban people who began to form sects more in tune with urban culture. The first large-scale heretical movements in Western Europe originated in the newly urbanized areas such as southern France and northern Italy and were probably influenced by the Bogomils and other dualist movements. These heresies were on a scale the Catholic Church had never seen before; the response was one of elimination for some (such as the Cathars), and acceptance and integration of others (such as the veneration of Francis of Assisi, the son of an urban merchant who renounced money).\n\nCatharism was a movement with Gnostic elements that originated around the middle of the 10th century, branded by the contemporary Roman Catholic Church as heretical. It existed throughout much of Western Europe, but its origination was in Languedoc and surrounding areas in southern France.\n\nThe name \"Cathar\" stems from Greek \"katharos\", \"pure\". One of the first recorded uses is Eckbert von Schönau who wrote on heretics from Cologne in 1181: \"Hos nostra Germania catharos appellat.\"\n\nThe Cathars are also called Albigensians. This name originates from the end of the 12th century, and was used by the chronicler Geoffroy du Breuil of Vigeois in 1181. The name refers to the southern town of Albi (the ancient Albiga). The designation is hardly exact, for the centre was at Toulouse and in the neighbouring districts.\n\nThe Albigensians were strong in southern France, northern Italy, and the southwestern Holy Roman Empire.\n\nThe Bogomils were strong in the Balkans, and became the official religion supported by the Bosnian kings.\n\nPeter Waldo of Lyon was a wealthy merchant who gave up his riches around 1175 after a religious experience and became a preacher. He founded the Waldensians which became a Christian sect believing that all religious practices should have scriptural basis. Waldo was denied the right to preach his sermons by the Third Lateran Council in 1179, which he did not obey and continued to speak freely until he was excommunicated in 1184. Waldo was critical of the Christian clergy saying they did not live according to the word. He rejected the practice of selling indulgences, as well as the common saint cult practices of the day.\n\nWaldensians are considered a forerunner to the Protestant Reformation, and they melted into Protestantism with the outbreak of the Reformation and became a part of the wider Reformed tradition after the views of John Calvin and his theological successors in Geneva proved very similar to their own theological thought. Waldensian churches still exist, located on several continents.\n\nIn Northern Europe, the Hanseatic League, a federation of free cities to advance trade by sea, was founded in the 12th century, with the foundation of the city of Lübeck, which would later dominate the League, in 11581159. Many northern cities of the Holy Roman Empire became hanseatic cities, including Amsterdam, Cologne, Bremen, Hanover and Berlin. Hanseatic cities outside the Holy Roman Empire were, for instance, Bruges and the Polish city of Gdańsk (Danzig), as well as Königsberg, capital of the monastic state of the Teutonic Knights. In Bergen, Norway and Veliky Novgorod, Russia the league had factories and middlemen. In this period the Germans started colonising Europe beyond the Empire, into Prussia and Silesia.\n\nIn the late 13th century, a Venetian explorer named Marco Polo became one of the first Europeans to travel the Silk Road to China. Westerners became more aware of the Far East when Polo documented his travels in \"Il Milione\". He was followed by numerous Christian missionaries to the East, such as William of Rubruck, Giovanni da Pian del Carpine, André de Longjumeau, Odoric of Pordenone, Giovanni de' Marignolli, Giovanni di Monte Corvino, and other travellers such as Niccolò de' Conti.\n\nPhilosophical and scientific teaching of the Early Middle Ages was based upon few copies and commentaries of ancient Greek texts that remained in Western Europe after the collapse of the Western Roman Empire. Most of them were studied only in Latin as knowledge of Greek was very limited.\n\nThis scenario changed during the Renaissance of the 12th century. The intellectual revitalization of Europe started with the birth of medieval universities. The increased contact with the Islamic world in Spain and Sicily during the Reconquista, and the Byzantine world and Muslim Levant during the Crusades, allowed Europeans access to scientific Arabic and Greek texts, including the works of Aristotle, Alhazen, and Averroes. The European universities aided materially in the translation and propagation of these texts and started a new infrastructure which was needed for scientific communities.\nAt the beginning of the 13th century there were reasonably accurate Latin translations of the main works of almost all the intellectually crucial ancient authors, allowing a sound transfer of scientific ideas via both the universities and the monasteries. By then, the natural science contained in these texts began to be extended by notable scholastics such as Robert Grosseteste, Roger Bacon, Albertus Magnus and Duns Scotus. Precursors of the modern scientific method can be seen already in Grosseteste's emphasis on mathematics as a way to understand nature, and in the empirical approach admired by Bacon, particularly in his \"Opus Majus\".\n\nDuring the 12th and 13th century in Europe there was a radical change in the rate of new inventions, innovations in the ways of managing traditional means of production, and economic growth. In less than a century there were more inventions developed and applied usefully than in the previous thousand years of human history all over the globe. The period saw major technological advances, including the adoption or invention of windmills, watermills, printing (though not yet with movable type), gunpowder, the astrolabe, glasses, scissors of the modern shape, a better clock, and greatly improved ships. The latter two advances made possible the dawn of the Age of Discovery. These inventions were influenced by foreign culture and society.\n\nAlfred W. Crosby described some of this technological revolution in \"The Measure of Reality: Quantification in Western Europe, 1250-1600\" and other major historians of technology have also noted it.\n\n\nArt in the High Middle Ages includes these important movements:\n\nGothic architecture superseded the Romanesque style by combining flying buttresses, gothic (or pointed) arches and ribbed vaults. It was influenced by the spiritual background of the time, being religious in essence: thin horizontal lines and grates made the building strive towards the sky. Architecture was made to appear light and weightless, as opposed to the dark and bulky forms of the previous Romanesque style. Saint Augustine of Hippo taught that light was an expression of God. Architectural techniques were adapted and developed to build churches that reflected this teaching. Colorful glass windows enhanced the spirit of lightness. As color was much rarer at medieval times than today, it can be assumed that these virtuoso works of art had an awe-inspiring impact on the common man from the street. High-rising intricate ribbed, and later fan vaultings demonstrated movement toward heaven. Veneration of God was also expressed by the relatively large size of these buildings. A gothic cathedral therefore not only invited the visitors to elevate themselves spiritually, it was also meant to demonstrate the greatness of God. The floor plan of a gothic cathedral corresponded to the rules of scholasticism: According to Erwin Panofsky's \"Gothic Architecture and Scholasticism\", the plan was divided into sections and uniform subsections. These characteristics are exhibited by the most famous sacral building of the time: Notre Dame de Paris.\n\nA variety of cultures influenced the literature of the High Middle Ages, one of the strongest among them being Christianity. The connection to Christianity was greatest in Latin literature, which influenced the vernacular languages in the literary cycle of the Matter of Rome. Other literary cycles, or interrelated groups of stories, included the Matter of France (stories about Charlemagne and his court), the Acritic songs dealing with the chivalry of Byzantium's frontiersmen, and perhaps the best known cycle, the Matter of Britain, which featured tales about King Arthur, his court, and related stories from Brittany, Cornwall, Wales and Ireland. An anonymous German poet tried to bring the Germanic myths from the Migration Period to the level of the French and British epics, producing the Nibelungenlied. There was also a quantity of poetry and historical writings which were written during this period, such as \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" by Geoffrey of Monmouth.\n\nDespite political decline during the late 12th and much of the 13th centuries, the Byzantine scholarly tradition remained particularly fruitful over the time period. One of the most prominent philosophers of the 11th century, Michael Psellos, reinvigorated Neoplatonism on Christian foundations and bolstered the study of ancient philosophical texts, along with contributing to history, grammar, and rhetorics. His pupil and successor at the head of Philosophy at the University of Constantinople Ioannes Italos continued the Platonic line in Byzantine thought and was criticized by the Church for holding opinions it considered heretical, such as the doctrine of transmigration. Two Orthodox theologians important in the dialogue between the eastern and western churches were Nikephoros Blemmydes and Maximus Planudes. Byzantine historical tradition also flourished with the works of the brothers Niketas and Michael Choniates in the beginning of the 13th century and George Akropolites a generation later. Dating from 12th century Byzantine Empire is also Timarion, an Orthodox Christian anticipation of Divine Comedy. Around the same time the so-called Byzantine novel rose in popularity with its synthesis of ancient pagan and contemporaneous Christian themes.\n\nAt the same time southern France gave birth to Occitan literature, which is best known for troubadours who sang of courtly love. It included elements from Latin literature and Arab-influenced Spain and North Africa. Later its influence spread to several cultures in Western Europe, notably in Portugal and the Minnesänger in Germany. Provençal literature also reached Sicily and Northern Italy laying the foundation of the \"sweet new style\" of Dante and later Petrarca. Indeed, the most important poem of the Late Middle Ages, the allegorical \"Divine Comedy,\" is to a large degree a product of both the theology of Thomas Aquinas and the largely secular Occitan literature.\n\nThe surviving music of the High Middle Ages is primarily religious in nature, since music notation developed in religious institutions, and the application of notation to secular music was a later development. Early in the period, Gregorian chant was the dominant form of church music; other forms, beginning with organum, and later including clausulae, conductus, and the motet, developed using the chant as source material.\n\nDuring the 11th century, Guido of Arezzo was one of the first to develop musical notation, which made it easier for singers to remember Gregorian chants.\n\nIt was during the 12th and 13th centuries that Gregorian plainchant gave birth to polyphony, which appeared in the works of French Notre Dame School (Léonin and Pérotin). Later it evolved into the \"ars nova\" (Philippe de Vitry, Guillaume de Machaut) and the musical genres of late Middle Ages. An important composer during the 12th century was the nun Hildegard of Bingen.\n\nThe most significant secular movement was that of the troubadours, who arose in Occitania (Southern France) in the late 11th century. The troubadours were often itinerant, came from all classes of society, and wrote songs on a variety of topics, though with a particular focus on courtly love. Their style went on to influence the trouvères of northern France, the minnesingers of Germany, and the composers of secular music of the Trecento in northern Italy.\n\nEconomic and political changes in the High Middle Ages led to the formation of guilds and the growth of towns, and this would lead to significant changes for theatre starting in this time and continuing into the Late Middle Ages. Trade guilds began to perform plays, usually religiously based, and often dealing with a biblical story that referenced their profession. For instance, a baker's guild would perform a reenactment of the Last Supper. In the British Isles, plays were produced in some 127 different towns during the Middle Ages. These vernacular Mystery plays were written in cycles of a large number of plays: York (48 plays), Chester (24), Wakefield (32) and Unknown (42). A larger number of plays survive from France and Germany in this period and some type of religious dramas were performed in nearly every European country in the Late Middle Ages. Many of these plays contained comedy, devils, villains and clowns.\n\nThere were also a number of secular performances staged in the Middle Ages, the earliest of which is \"The Play of the Greenwood\" by Adam de la Halle in 1276. It contains satirical scenes and folk material such as faeries and other supernatural occurrences. Farces also rose dramatically in popularity after the 13th century. The majority of these plays come from France and Germany and are similar in tone and form, emphasizing sex and bodily excretions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3143150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3143150", "title": "History of scientific method", "text": "History of scientific method\n\nThe history of scientific method considers changes in the methodology of scientific inquiry, as distinct from the history of science itself. The development of rules for scientific reasoning has not been straightforward; scientific method has been the subject of intense and recurring debate throughout the history of science, and eminent natural philosophers and scientists have argued for the primacy of one or another approach to establishing scientific knowledge. Despite the disagreements about approaches, scientific method has advanced in definite steps. Rationalist explanations of nature, including atomism, appeared both in ancient Greece in the thought of Leucippus and Democritus, and in ancient India, in the Nyaya, Vaisesika and Buddhist schools, while Charvaka materialism rejected inference as a source of knowledge in favour of an empiricism that was always subject to doubt. Aristotle pioneered scientific method in ancient Greece alongside his empirical biology and his work on logic, rejecting a purely deductive framework in favour of generalisations made from observations of nature.\n\nSome of the most important debates in the history of scientific method center on: rationalism, especially as advocated by René Descartes<nowiki>;</nowiki> inductivism, which rose to particular prominence with Isaac Newton and his followers; and hypothetico-deductivism, which came to the fore in the early 19th century. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, a debate over realism vs. antirealism was central to discussions of scientific method as powerful scientific theories extended beyond the realm of the observable, while in the mid-20th century some prominent philosophers argued against any universal rules of science at all.\n\nThere are few explicit discussions of scientific methodologies in surviving records from early cultures. The most that can be inferred about the approaches to undertaking science in this period stems from descriptions of early investigations into nature, in the surviving records. An Egyptian medical textbook, the Edwin Smith papyrus, (c. 1600 BCE), applies the following components: examination, diagnosis, treatment and prognosis, to the treatment of disease, which display strong parallels to the basic empirical method of science and according to G. E. R. Lloyd played a significant role in the development of this methodology. The Ebers papyrus (c. 1550 BCE) also contains evidence of traditional empiricism.\n\nBy the middle of the 1st millennium BCE in Mesopotamia, Babylonian astronomy had evolved into the earliest example of a scientific astronomy, as it was \"the first and highly successful attempt at giving a refined mathematical description of astronomical phenomena.\" According to the historian Asger Aaboe, \"all subsequent varieties of scientific astronomy, in the Hellenistic world, in India, in the Islamic world, and in the West – if not indeed all subsequent endeavour in the exact sciences – depend upon Babylonian astronomy in decisive and fundamental ways.\"\n\nThe early Babylonians and Egyptians developed much technical knowledge, crafts, and mathematics used in practical tasks of divination, as well as a knowledge of medicine, and made lists of various kinds. While the Babylonians in particular had engaged in the earliest forms of an empirical mathematical science, with their early attempts at mathematically describing natural phenomena, they generally lacked underlying rational theories of nature. It was the ancient Greeks who engaged in the earliest forms of what is today recognized as a rational theoretical science, with the move towards a more rational understanding of nature which began at least since the Archaic Period (650 – 480 BCE) with the Presocratic school. Thales was the first to use natural explanations, proclaiming that every event had a natural cause, even though he is known for saying \"all things are full of gods\" and sacrificed an ox when he discovered his theorem. Leucippus, went on to develop the theory of atomism – the idea that everything is composed entirely of various imperishable, indivisible elements called atoms. This was elaborated in great detail by Democritus.\n\nSimilar atomist ideas emerged independently among ancient Indian philosophers of the Nyaya, Vaisesika and Buddhist schools. In particular, like the Nyaya, Vaisesika, and Buddhist schools, the Cārvāka epistemology was materialist, and skeptical enough to admit perception as the basis for unconditionally true knowledge, while cautioning that if one could only infer a truth, then one must also harbor a doubt about that truth; an inferred truth could not be unconditional.\n\nTowards the middle of the 5th century BCE, some of the components of a scientific tradition were already heavily established, even before Plato, who was an important contributor to this emerging tradition, thanks to the development of deductive reasoning, as propounded by his student, Aristotle. In \"Protagoras\" (318d-f), Plato mentioned the teaching of arithmetic, astronomy and geometry in schools. The philosophical ideas of this time were mostly freed from the constraints of everyday phenomena and common sense. This denial of reality as we experience it reached an extreme in Parmenides who argued that the world is one and that change and subdivision do not exist.\n\nIn the 3rd and 4th centuries BCE, the Greek physicians Herophilos (335–280 BCE) and Erasistratus of Chios employed experiments to further their medical research; Erasistratus at one time repeatedly weighing a caged bird, and noting its weight loss between feeding times.\n\nAristotle's inductive-deductive method used inductions from observations to infer general principles, deductions from those principles to check against further observations, and more cycles of induction and deduction to continue the advance of knowledge.\n\nThe \"Organon\" (Greek: Ὄργανον, meaning \"instrument, tool, organ\") is the standard collection of Aristotle's six works on logic. The name \"Organon\" was given by Aristotle's followers, the Peripatetics.\nThe order of the works is not chronological (the chronology is now difficult to determine) but was deliberately chosen by Theophrastus to constitute a well-structured system. Indeed, parts of them seem to be a scheme of a lecture on logic. The arrangement of the works was made by Andronicus of Rhodes around 40 BCE.\n\nThe \"Organon\" comprises the following six works:\n\nAristotle's \"Metaphysics\" has some points of overlap with the works making up the \"Organon\" but is not traditionally considered part of it; additionally there are works on logic attributed, with varying degrees of plausibility, to Aristotle that were not known to the Peripatetics.\n\nAristotle introduced what may be called a scientific method. His demonstration method is found in \"Posterior Analytics\". He provided another of the ingredients of scientific tradition: empiricism. For Aristotle, universal truths can be known from particular things via induction. To some extent then, Aristotle reconciles abstract thought with observation, although it would be a mistake to imply that Aristotelian science is empirical in form. Indeed, Aristotle did not accept that knowledge acquired by induction could rightly be counted as scientific knowledge. Nevertheless, induction was for him a necessary preliminary to the main business of scientific enquiry, providing the primary premises required for scientific demonstrations.\n\nAristotle largely ignored inductive reasoning in his treatment of scientific enquiry. To make it clear why this is so, consider this statement in the \"Posterior Analytics\":\n\nWe suppose ourselves to possess unqualified scientific knowledge of a thing, as opposed to knowing it in the accidental way in which the sophist knows, when we think that we know the cause on which the fact depends, as the cause of that fact and of no other, and, further, that the fact could not be other than it is.\n\nIt was therefore the work of the philosopher to demonstrate universal truths and to discover their causes. While induction was sufficient for discovering universals by generalization, it did not succeed in identifying causes. For this task Aristotle used the tool of deductive reasoning in the form of syllogisms. Using the syllogism, scientists could infer new universal truths from those already established.\n\nAristotle developed a complete normative approach to scientific inquiry involving the syllogism, which he discusses at length in his \"Posterior Analytics\". A difficulty with this scheme lay in showing that derived truths have solid primary premises. Aristotle would not allow that demonstrations could be circular (supporting the conclusion by the premises, and the premises by the conclusion). Nor would he allow an infinite number of middle terms between the primary premises and the conclusion. This leads to the question of how the primary premises are found or developed, and as mentioned above, Aristotle allowed that induction would be required for this task.\n\nTowards the end of the \"Posterior Analytics\", Aristotle discusses knowledge imparted by induction.\n\nThus it is clear that we must get to know the primary premises by induction; for the method by which even sense-perception implants the universal is inductive. [...] it follows that there will be no scientific knowledge of the primary premises, and since except intuition nothing can be truer than scientific knowledge, it will be intuition that apprehends the primary premises. [...] If, therefore, it is the only other kind of true thinking except scientific knowing, intuition will be the originative source of scientific knowledge.\n\nThe account leaves room for doubt regarding the nature and extent of Aristotle's empiricism. In particular, it seems that Aristotle considers sense-perception only as a vehicle for knowledge through intuition. He restricted his investigations in natural history to their natural settings, such as at the Pyrrha lagoon, now called Kalloni, at Lesbos. Aristotle and Theophrastus together formulated the new science of biology, inductively, case by case, for two years before Aristotle was called to tutor Alexander. Aristotle performed no modern-style experiments in the form in which they appear in today's physics and chemistry laboratories.\nInduction is not afforded the status of scientific reasoning, and so it is left to intuition to provide a solid foundation for Aristotle's science. With that said, Aristotle brings us somewhat closer an empirical science than his predecessors.\n\nIn his work Kαvώv ('canon', a straight edge or ruler, thus any type of measure or standard, referred to as 'canonic'), Epicurus laid out his first rule for inquiry in physics: 'that the \"first concepts be seen\", and that they \"not require demonstration\" '.\n\nHis second rule for inquiry was that prior to an investigation, \"we are to have self-evident concepts\", so that we might infer [ἔχωμεν οἷς σημειωσόμεθα] both what is expected [τò προσμένον], and also what is non-apparent [τò ἄδηλον].\n\nEpicurus applies his method of inference (the use of observations as signs, Asmis' summary, p. 333: \"the method of using the phenomena as signs (σημεῖα) of what is unobserved\") immediately to the atomic theory of Democritus. In Aristotle's \"Prior Analytics\", Aristotle himself employs the use of signs. But Epicurus presented his 'canonic' as rival to Aristotle's logic. See: Lucretius (c. 99 BCE – c. 55 BCE) \"De rerum natura\" (\"On the nature of things\") a didactic poem explaining Epicurus' philosophy and physics.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages issues of what is now termed science began to be addressed. There was greater emphasis on combining theory with practice in the Islamic world than there had been in Classical times, and it was common for those studying the sciences to be artisans as well, something that had been \"considered an aberration in the ancient world.\" Islamic experts in the sciences were often expert instrument makers who enhanced their powers of observation and calculation with them. Muslim scientists used experiment and quantification to distinguish between competing scientific theories, set within a generically empirical orientation, as can be seen in the works of Jābir ibn Hayyān (721–815) and Alkindus (801–873) as early examples. Several scientific methods thus emerged from the medieval Muslim world by the early 11th century, all of which emphasized experimentation as well as quantification to varying degrees.\n\nThe Arab physicist Ibn al-Haytham (Alhazen) used experimentation to obtain the results in his \"Book of Optics\" (1021). He combined observations, experiments and rational arguments to support his intromission theory of vision, in which rays of light are emitted from objects rather than from the eyes. He used similar arguments to show that the ancient emission theory of vision supported by Ptolemy and Euclid (in which the eyes emit the rays of light used for seeing), and the ancient intromission theory supported by Aristotle (where objects emit physical particles to the eyes), were both wrong.\n\nExperimental evidence supported most of the propositions in his \"Book of Optics\" and grounded his theories of vision, light and colour, as well as his research in catoptrics and dioptrics. His legacy was elaborated through the 'reforming' of his \"Optics\" by Kamal al-Din al-Farisi (d. c. 1320) in the latter's \"Kitab Tanqih al-Manazir\" (\"The Revision of\" [Ibn al-Haytham's] \"Optics\").\n\nAlhazen viewed his scientific studies as a search for truth: \"Truth is sought for its own sake. And those who are engaged upon the quest for anything for its own sake are not interested in other things. Finding the truth is difficult, and the road to it is rough. ...\n\nAlhazen's work included the conjecture that \"Light travels through transparent bodies in straight lines only\", which he was able to corroborate only after years of effort. He stated, \"[This] is clearly observed in the lights which enter into dark rooms through holes. ... the entering light will be clearly observable in the dust which fills the air.\" He also demonstrated the conjecture by placing a straight stick or a taut thread next to the light beam.\n\nIbn al-Haytham also employed scientific skepticism and emphasized the role of empiricism. He also explained the role of induction in syllogism, and criticized Aristotle for his lack of contribution to the method of induction, which Ibn al-Haytham regarded as superior to syllogism, and he considered induction to be the basic requirement for true scientific research.\n\nSomething like Occam's razor is also present in the \"Book of Optics\". For example, after demonstrating that light is generated by luminous objects and emitted or reflected into the eyes, he states that therefore \"the extramission of [visual] rays is superfluous and useless.\" He may also have been the first scientist to adopt a form of positivism in his approach. He wrote that \"we do not go beyond experience, and we cannot be content to use pure concepts in investigating natural phenomena\", and that the understanding of these cannot be acquired without mathematics. After assuming that light is a material substance, he does not further discuss its nature but confines his investigations to the diffusion and propagation of light. The only properties of light he takes into account are those treatable by geometry and verifiable by experiment.\n\nThe Persian scientist Abū Rayhān al-Bīrūnī introduced early scientific methods for several different fields of inquiry during the 1020s and 1030s. For example, in his treatise on mineralogy, \"Kitab al-Jawahir\" (\"Book of Precious Stones\"), al-Biruni is \"the most exact of experimental scientists\", while in the introduction to his study of India, he declares that \"to execute our project, it has not been possible to follow the geometric method\" and thus became one of the pioneers of comparative sociology in insisting on field experience and information. He also developed an early experimental method for mechanics.\n\nAl-Biruni's methods resembled the modern scientific method, particularly in his emphasis on repeated experimentation. Biruni was concerned with how to conceptualize and prevent both systematic errors and observational biases, such as \"errors caused by the use of small instruments and errors made by human observers.\" He argued that if instruments produce errors because of their imperfections or idiosyncratic qualities, then multiple observations must be taken, analyzed qualitatively, and on this basis, arrive at a \"common-sense single value for the constant sought\", whether an arithmetic mean or a \"reliable estimate.\" In his scientific method, \"universals came out of practical, experimental work\" and \"theories are formulated after discoveries\", as with inductivism.\n\nIn the \"On Demonstration\" section of \"The Book of Healing\" (1027), the Persian philosopher and scientist Avicenna (Ibn Sina) discussed philosophy of science and described an early scientific method of inquiry. He discussed Aristotle's \"Posterior Analytics\" and significantly diverged from it on several points. Avicenna discussed the issue of a proper procedure for scientific inquiry and the question of \"How does one acquire the first principles of a science?\" He asked how a scientist might find \"the initial axioms or hypotheses of a deductive science without inferring them from some more basic premises?\" He explained that the ideal situation is when one grasps that a \"relation holds between the terms, which would allow for absolute, universal certainty.\" Avicenna added two further methods for finding a first principle: the ancient Aristotelian method of induction (\"istiqra\"), and the more recent method of examination and experimentation (\"tajriba\"). Avicenna criticized Aristotelian induction, arguing that \"it does not lead to the absolute, universal, and certain premises that it purports to provide.\" In its place, he advocated \"a method of experimentation as a means for scientific inquiry.\"\n\nEarlier, in \"The Canon of Medicine\" (1025), Avicenna was also the first to describe what is essentially methods of agreement, difference and concomitant variation which are critical to inductive logic and the scientific method. However, unlike his contemporary al-Biruni's scientific method, in which \"universals came out of practical, experimental work\" and \"theories are formulated after discoveries\", Avicenna developed a scientific procedure in which \"general and universal questions came first and led to experimental work.\" Due to the differences between their methods, al-Biruni referred to himself as a mathematical scientist and to Avicenna as a philosopher, during a debate between the two scholars.\n\nDuring the European Renaissance of the 12th century, ideas on scientific methodology, including Aristotle's empiricism and the experimental approaches of Alhazen and Avicenna, were introduced to medieval Europe via Latin translations of Arabic and Greek texts and commentaries. Robert Grosseteste's commentary on the \"Posterior Analytics\" places Grosseteste among the first scholastic thinkers in Europe to understand Aristotle's vision of the dual nature of scientific reasoning. Concluding from particular observations into a universal law, and then back again, from universal laws to prediction of particulars. Grosseteste called this \"resolution and composition\". Further, Grosseteste said that both paths should be verified through experimentation to verify the principles.\n\nRoger Bacon was inspired by the writings of Grosseteste. In his account of a method, Bacon described a repeating cycle of \"observation\", \"hypothesis\", \"experimentation\", and the need for independent \"verification\". He recorded the way he had conducted his experiments in precise detail, perhaps with the idea that others could reproduce and independently test his results.\n\nAbout 1256 he joined the Franciscan Order and became subject to the Franciscan statute forbidding Friars from publishing books or pamphlets without specific approval. After the accession of Pope Clement IV in 1265, the Pope granted Bacon a special commission to write to him on scientific matters. In eighteen months he completed three large treatises, the \"Opus Majus\", \"Opus Minus\", and \"Opus Tertium\" which he sent to the Pope. William Whewell has called \"Opus Majus\" at once the Encyclopaedia and Organon of the 13th century.\n\nAristotle’s ideas became a framework for critical debate beginning with absorption of the Aristotelian texts into the university curriculum in the first half of the 13th century. Contributing to this was the success of medieval theologians in reconciling Aristotelian philosophy with Christian theology. Within the sciences, medieval philosophers were not afraid of disagreeing with Aristotle on many specific issues, although their disagreements were stated within the language of Aristotelian philosophy. All medieval natural philosophers were Aristotelians, but \"Aristotelianism\" had become a somewhat broad and flexible concept. With the end of Middle Ages, the Renaissance rejection of medieval traditions coupled with an extreme reverence for classical sources led to a recovery of other ancient philosophical traditions, especially the teachings of Plato. By the 17th century, those who clung dogmatically to Aristotle's teachings were faced with several competing approaches to nature.\nThe discovery of the Americas at the close of the 15th century showed the scholars of Europe that new discoveries could be found outside of the authoritative works of Aristotle, Pliny, Galen, and other ancient writers.\n\nGalen of Pergamon (129 – c. 200 AD) had studied with four schools in antiquity — Platonists, Aristotelians, Stoics, and Epicureans, and at Alexandria, the center of medicine at the time. In his \"Methodus Medendi\", Galen had synthesized the empirical and dogmatic schools of medicine into his own method, which was preserved by Arab scholars. After the translations from Arabic were critically scrutinized, a backlash occurred and demand arose in Europe for translations of Galen's medical text from the original Greek. Galen's method became very popular in Europe. Thomas Linacre, the teacher of Erasmus, thereupon translated \"Methodus Medendi\" from Greek into Latin for a larger audience in 1519. Limbrick 1988 notes that 630 editions, translations, and commentaries on Galen were produced in Europe in the 16th century, eventually eclipsing Arabic medicine there, and peaking in 1560, at the time of the scientific revolution.\n\nBy the late 15th century, the physician-scholar Niccolò Leoniceno was finding errors in Pliny's \"Natural History\". As a physician, Leoniceno was concerned about these botanical errors propagating to the materia medica on which medicines were based. To counter this, a botanical garden was established at Orto botanico di Padova, University of Padua (in use for teaching by 1546), in order that medical students might have empirical access to the plants of a pharmacopia. Other Renaissance teaching gardens were established, notably by the physician Leonhart Fuchs, one of the founders of botany.\n\nThe first published work devoted to the concept of method is Jodocus Willichius, \"De methodo omnium artium et disciplinarum informanda opusculum\" (1550).\n\nIn 1562 \"Outlines of Pyrrhonism\" by Sextus Empiricus (c. 160-210 AD) appeared in print and in Latin, quickly placing the arguments of classical skepticism in the European mainstream. Skepticism either denies or strongly doubts (depending on the school) the possibility of certain knowledge. Descartes' famous \"Cogito\" argument is an attempt to overcome skepticism and reestablish a foundation for certainty but other thinkers responded by revising what the search for knowledge, particularly physical knowledge, might be.\n\nThe first of these, philosopher and physician Francisco Sanches, was led by his medical training at Rome, 1571–73, to search for a true method of knowing (\"modus sciendi\"), as nothing clear can be known by the methods of Aristotle and his followers — for example, 1) syllogism fails upon circular reasoning; 2) Aristotle's modal logic was not stated clearly enough for use in medieval times, and remains a research problem to this day. Following the physician Galen's \"method of medicine\", Sanches lists the methods of judgement and experience, which are faulty in the wrong hands, and we are left with the bleak statement \"That Nothing is Known\" (1581, in Latin \"Quod Nihil Scitur\"). This challenge was taken up by René Descartes in the next generation (1637), but at the least, Sanches warns us that we ought to refrain from the methods, summaries, and commentaries on Aristotle, if we seek scientific knowledge. In this, he is echoed by Francis Bacon who was influenced by another prominent exponent of skepticism, Montaigne; Sanches cites the humanist Juan Luis Vives who sought a better educational system, as well as a statement of human rights as a pathway for improvement of the lot of the poor.\n\n\"Sanches develops his scepticism by means of an intellectual critique of Aristotelianism, rather than by an appeal to the history of human stupidity and the variety and contrariety of previous theories.\" —, as cited by \n\nFrancis Bacon (1561–1626) entered Trinity College, Cambridge in April 1573, where he applied himself diligently to the several sciences as then taught, and came to the conclusion that the methods employed and the results attained were alike erroneous; he learned to despise the current Aristotelian philosophy. He believed philosophy must be taught its true purpose, and for this purpose a new method must be devised. With this conception in his mind, Bacon left the university.\n\nBacon attempted to describe a rational procedure for establishing causation between phenomena based on induction. Bacon's induction was, however, radically different than that employed by the Aristotelians. As Bacon put it,\n\n[A]nother form of induction must be devised than has hitherto been employed, and it must be used for proving and discovering not first principles (as they are called) only, but also the lesser axioms, and the middle, and indeed all. For the induction which proceeds by simple enumeration is childish. —\"Novum Organum\" section CV\n\nBacon's method relied on experimental \"histories\" to eliminate alternative theories. Bacon explains how his method is applied in his \"Novum Organum\" (published 1620). In an example he gives on the examination of the nature of heat, Bacon creates two tables, the first of which he names \"Table of Essence and Presence\", enumerating the many various circumstances under which we find heat. In the other table, labelled \"Table of Deviation, or of Absence in Proximity\", he lists circumstances which bear resemblance to those of the first table except for the absence of heat. From an analysis of what he calls the \"natures\" (light emitting, heavy, colored, etc.) of the items in these lists we are brought to conclusions about the \"form nature\", or cause, of heat. Those natures which are always present in the first table, but never in the second are deemed to be the cause of heat.\n\nThe role experimentation played in this process was twofold. The most laborious job of the scientist would be to gather the facts, or 'histories', required to create the tables of presence and absence. Such histories would document a mixture of common knowledge and experimental results. Secondly, \"experiments of light\", or, as we might say, crucial experiments would be needed to resolve any remaining ambiguities over causes.\n\nBacon showed an uncompromising commitment to experimentation. Despite this, he did not make any great scientific discoveries during his lifetime. This may be because he was not the most able experimenter. It may also be because hypothesising plays only a small role in Bacon's method compared to modern science. Hypotheses, in Bacon's method, are supposed to emerge during the process of investigation, with the help of mathematics and logic. Bacon gave a substantial but secondary role to mathematics \"which ought only to give definiteness to natural philosophy, not to generate or give it birth\" (\"Novum Organum XCVI\"). An over-emphasis on axiomatic reasoning had rendered previous non-empirical philosophy impotent, in Bacon's view, which was expressed in his \"Novum Organum\":\n\nXIX. There are and can be only two ways of searching into and discovering truth. The one flies from the senses and particulars to the most general axioms, and from these principles, the truth of which it takes for settled and immoveable, proceeds to judgment and to the discovery of middle axioms. And this way is now in fashion. The other derives axioms from the senses and particulars, rising by a gradual and unbroken ascent, so that it arrives at the most general axioms last of all. This is the true way, but as yet untried.\n\nIn Bacon's utopian novel, \"The New Atlantis\", the ultimate role is given for inductive reasoning:\n\nLastly, we have three that raise the former discoveries by experiments into greater observations, axioms, and aphorisms. These we call interpreters of nature.\nIn 1619, René Descartes began writing his first major treatise on proper scientific and philosophical thinking, the unfinished \"Rules for the Direction of the Mind\". His aim was to create a complete science that he hoped would overthrow the Aristotelian system and establish himself as the sole architect of a new system of guiding principles for scientific research.\n\nThis work was continued and clarified in his 1637 treatise, \"Discourse on Method\", and in his 1641 \"Meditations\". Descartes describes the intriguing and disciplined thought experiments he used to arrive at the idea we instantly associate with him: \"I think therefore I am\".\n\nFrom this foundational thought, Descartes finds proof of the existence of a God who, possessing all possible perfections, will not deceive him provided he resolves \"[...] never to accept anything for true which I did not clearly know to be such; that is to say, carefully to avoid precipitancy and prejudice, and to comprise nothing more in my judgment than what was presented to my mind so clearly and distinctly as to exclude all ground of methodic doubt.\"\n\nThis rule allowed Descartes to progress beyond his own thoughts and judge that there exist extended bodies outside of his own thoughts. Descartes published seven sets of objections to the \"Meditations\" from various sources along with his replies to them. Despite his apparent departure from the Aristotelian system, a number of his critics felt that Descartes had done little more than replace the primary premises of Aristotle with those of his own. Descartes says as much himself in a letter written in 1647 to the translator of Principles of Philosophy,\n\na perfect knowledge [...] must necessarily be deduced from first causes [...] we must try to deduce from these principles knowledge of the things which depend on them, that there be nothing in the whole chain of deductions deriving from them that is not perfectly manifest.\n\nAnd again, some years earlier, speaking of Galileo's physics in a letter to his friend and critic Mersenne from 1638,\n\nwithout having considered the first causes of nature, [Galileo] has merely looked for the explanations of a few particular effects, and he has thereby built without foundations.\n\nWhereas Aristotle purported to arrive at his first principles by induction, Descartes believed he could obtain them using reason only. In this sense, he was a Platonist, as he believed in the innate ideas, as opposed to Aristotle's blank slate (\"tabula rasa\"), and stated that the seeds of science are inside us.\n\nUnlike Bacon, Descartes successfully applied his own ideas in practice. He made significant contributions to science, in particular in aberration-corrected optics. His work in analytic geometry was a necessary precedent to differential calculus and instrumental in bringing mathematical analysis to bear on scientific matters.\n\nDuring the period of religious conservatism brought about by the Reformation and Counter-Reformation, Galileo Galilei unveiled his new science of motion. Neither the contents of Galileo’s science, nor the methods of study he selected were in keeping with Aristotelian teachings. Whereas Aristotle thought that a science should be demonstrated from first principles, Galileo had used experiments as a research tool. Galileo nevertheless presented his treatise in the form of mathematical demonstrations without reference to experimental results. It is important to understand that this in itself was a bold and innovative step in terms of scientific method. The usefulness of mathematics in obtaining scientific results was far from obvious. This is because mathematics did not lend itself to the primary pursuit of Aristotelian science: the discovery of causes.\n\nWhether it is because Galileo was realistic about the acceptability of presenting experimental results as evidence or because he himself had doubts about the epistemological status of experimental findings is not known. Nevertheless, it is not in his Latin treatise on motion that we find reference to experiments, but in his supplementary dialogues written in the Italian vernacular. In these dialogues experimental results are given, although Galileo may have found them inadequate for persuading his audience. Thought experiments showing logical contradictions in Aristotelian thinking, presented in the skilled rhetoric of Galileo's dialogue were further enticements for the reader.\n\nIn his 1991 survey of developments in the modern accumulation of knowledge such as this Charles Van Doren considers that the Copernican Revolution really is the Galilean Cartesian (René Descartes) or simply the Galilean revolution on account of the courage and depth of change brought about by the work of Galileo.\n\nBoth Bacon and Descartes wanted to provide a firm foundation for scientific thought that avoided the deceptions of the mind and senses. Bacon envisaged that foundation as essentially empirical, whereas Descartes provides a metaphysical foundation for knowledge. If there were any doubts about the direction in which scientific method would develop, they were set to rest by the success of Isaac Newton. Implicitly rejecting Descartes' emphasis on rationalism in favor of Bacon's empirical approach, he outlines his four \"rules of reasoning\" in the \"Principia\",\n\nBut Newton also left an admonition about a theory of everything:\nTo explain all nature is too difficult a task for any one man or even for any one age. 'Tis much better to do a little with certainty, and leave the rest for others that come after you, than to explain all things.\n\nNewton's work became a model that other sciences sought to emulate, and his inductive approach formed the basis for much of natural philosophy through the 18th and early 19th centuries. Some methods of reasoning were later systematized by Mill's Methods (or Mill's canon), which are five explicit statements of what can be discarded and what can be kept while building a hypothesis. George Boole and William Stanley Jevons also wrote on the principles of reasoning.\n\nAttempts to systematize a scientific method were confronted in the mid-18th century by the problem of induction, a positivist logic formulation which, in short, asserts that nothing can be known with certainty except what is actually observed. David Hume took empiricism to the skeptical extreme; among his positions was that there is no logical necessity that the future should resemble the past, thus we are unable to justify inductive reasoning itself by appealing to its past success. Hume's arguments, of course, came on the heels of many, many centuries of excessive speculation upon excessive speculation not grounded in empirical observation and testing. Many of Hume's radically skeptical arguments were argued against, but not resolutely refuted, by Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\" in the late 18th century. Hume's arguments continue to hold a strong lingering influence and certainly on the consciousness of the educated classes for the better part of the 19th century when the argument at the time became the focus on whether or not the inductive method was valid.\n\nHans Christian Ørsted, (Ørsted is the Danish spelling; \"Oersted\" in other languages) (1777–1851) was heavily influenced by Kant, in particular, Kant's \"Metaphysische Anfangsgründe der Naturwissenschaft\" (\"Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science\"). The following sections on Ørsted encapsulate our current, common view of scientific method. His work appeared in Danish, most accessibly in public lectures, which he translated into German, French, English, and occasionally Latin. But some of his views go beyond Kant:\n\nØrsted's \"First Introduction to General Physics\" (1811) exemplified the steps of observation, hypothesis, deduction and experiment. In 1805, based on his researches on electromagnetism Ørsted came to believe that electricity is propagated by undulatory action (i.e., fluctuation). By 1820, he felt confident enough in his beliefs that he resolved to demonstrate them in a public lecture, and in fact observed a small magnetic effect from a galvanic circuit (i.e., voltaic circuit), \"without rehearsal\";\n\nIn 1831 John Herschel (1792–1871) published \"A Preliminary Discourse on the study of Natural Philosophy\", setting out the principles of science. Measuring and comparing observations was to be used to find generalisations in \"empirical laws\", which described regularities in phenomena, then natural philosophers were to work towards the higher aim of finding a universal \"law of nature\" which explained the causes and effects producing such regularities. An explanatory hypothesis was to be found by evaluating true causes (Newton's \"vera causae\") derived from experience, for example evidence of past climate change could be due to changes in the shape of continents, or to changes in Earth's orbit. Possible causes could be inferred by analogy to known causes of similar phenomena. It was essential to evaluate the importance of a hypothesis; \"our next step in the verification of an induction must, therefore, consist in extending its application to cases not originally contemplated; in studiously varying the circumstances under which our causes act, with a view to ascertain whether their effect is general; and in pushing the application of our laws to extreme cases.\"\n\nWilliam Whewell (1794–1866) regarded his \"History of the Inductive Sciences, from the Earliest to the Present Time\" (1837) to be an introduction to the \"Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences\" (1840) which analyzes the method exemplified in the formation of ideas. Whewell attempts to follow Bacon's plan for discovery of an effectual art of discovery. He named the hypothetico-deductive method (which \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" credits to Newton); Whewell also coined the term \"scientist\". Whewell examines ideas and attempts to construct science by uniting ideas to facts. He analyses induction into three steps:\nUpon these follow special techniques applicable for quantity, such as the method of least squares, curves, means, and special methods depending on resemblance (such as pattern matching, the method of gradation, and the method of natural classification (such as cladistics).\nBut no art of discovery, such as Bacon anticipated, follows, for \"invention, sagacity, genius\" are needed at every step. Whewell's sophisticated concept of science had similarities to that shown by Herschel, and he considered that a good hypothesis should connect fields that had previously been thought unrelated, a process he called consilience. However, where Herschel held that the origin of new biological species would be found in a natural rather than a miraculous process, Whewell opposed this and considered that no natural cause had been shown for adaptation so an unknown divine cause was appropriate.\n\nJohn Stuart Mill (1806–1873) was stimulated to publish \"A System of Logic\" (1843) upon reading Whewell's \"History of the Inductive Sciences\". Mill may be regarded as the final exponent of the empirical school of philosophy begun by John Locke, whose fundamental characteristic is the duty incumbent upon all thinkers to investigate for themselves rather than to accept the authority of others. Knowledge must be based on experience.\n\nIn the mid-19th century Claude Bernard was also influential, especially in bringing the scientific method to medicine. In his discourse on scientific method, \"An Introduction to the Study of Experimental Medicine\" (1865), he described what makes a scientific theory good and what makes a scientist a true discoverer. Unlike many scientific writers of his time, Bernard wrote about his own experiments and thoughts, and used the first person.\n\nWilliam Stanley Jevons' \"The Principles of Science: a treatise on logic and scientific method\" (1873, 1877) Chapter XII \"The Inductive or Inverse Method\", Summary of the Theory of Inductive Inference, states \"Thus there are but three steps in the process of induction :-\nJevons then frames those steps in terms of probability, which he then applied to economic laws. Ernest Nagel notes that Jevons and Whewell were not the first writers to argue for the centrality of the hypothetico-deductive method in the logic of science.\n\nIn the late 19th century, Charles Sanders Peirce proposed a schema that would turn out to have considerable influence in the further development of scientific method generally. Peirce's work quickly accelerated the progress on several fronts. Firstly, speaking in broader context in \"How to Make Our Ideas Clear\" (1878), Peirce outlined an objectively verifiable method to test the truth of putative knowledge on a way that goes beyond mere foundational alternatives, focusing upon both Deduction and Induction. He thus placed induction and deduction in a complementary rather than competitive context (the latter of which had been the primary trend at least since David Hume a century before). Secondly, and of more direct importance to scientific method, Peirce put forth the basic schema for hypothesis-testing that continues to prevail today. Extracting the theory of inquiry from its raw materials in classical logic, he refined it in parallel with the early development of symbolic logic to address the then-current problems in scientific reasoning. Peirce examined and articulated the three fundamental modes of reasoning that play a role in scientific inquiry today, the processes that are currently known as abductive, deductive, and inductive inference. Thirdly, he played a major role in the progress of symbolic logic itself – indeed this was his primary specialty.\n\nCharles S. Peirce was also a pioneer in statistics. Peirce held that science achieves statistical probabilities, not certainties, and that chance, a veering from law, is very real. He assigned probability to an argument’s conclusion rather than to a proposition, event, etc., as such. Most of his statistical writings promote the frequency interpretation of probability (objective ratios of cases), and many of his writings express skepticism about (and criticize the use of) probability when such models are not based on objective randomization. Though Peirce was largely a frequentist, his possible world semantics introduced the \"propensity\" theory of probability. Peirce (sometimes with Jastrow) investigated the probability judgments of experimental subjects, pioneering decision analysis.\n\nPeirce was one of the founders of statistics. He formulated modern statistics in \"Illustrations of the Logic of Science\" (1877–1878) and \"A Theory of Probable Inference\" (1883). With a repeated measures design, he introduced blinded, controlled randomized experiments (before Fisher). He invented an optimal design for experiments on gravity, in which he \"corrected the means\". He used logistic regression, correlation, and smoothing, and improved the treatment of outliers. He introduced terms \"confidence\" and \"likelihood\" (before Neyman and Fisher). (See the historical books of Stephen Stigler.) Many of Peirce's ideas were later popularized and developed by Ronald A. Fisher, Jerzy Neyman, Frank P. Ramsey, Bruno de Finetti, and Karl Popper.\n\nKarl Popper (1902–1994) is generally credited with providing major improvements in the understanding of the scientific method in the mid-to-late 20th century. In 1934 Popper published \"The Logic of Scientific Discovery\", which repudiated the by then traditional observationalist-inductivist account of the scientific method. He advocated empirical falsifiability as the criterion for distinguishing scientific work from non-science. According to Popper, scientific theory should make predictions (preferably predictions not made by a competing theory) which can be tested and the theory rejected if these predictions are shown not to be correct. Following Peirce and others, he argued that science would best progress using deductive reasoning as its primary emphasis, known as critical rationalism. His astute formulations of logical procedure helped to rein in the excessive use of inductive speculation upon inductive speculation, and also helped to strengthen the conceptual foundations for today's peer review procedures.\n\nCritics of Popper, chiefly Thomas Kuhn, Paul Feyerabend and Imre Lakatos, rejected the idea that there exists a \"single\" method that applies to all science and could account for its progress. In 1962 Kuhn published the influential book \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\" which suggested that scientists worked within a series of paradigms, and argued there was little evidence of scientists actually following a falsificationist methodology. Kuhn quoted Max Planck who had said in his autobiography, \"a new scientific truth does not triumph by convincing its opponents and making them see the light, but rather because its opponents eventually die, and a new generation grows up that is familiar with it.\"\n\nThese debates clearly show that there is no universal agreement as to what constitutes \"the\" \"scientific method\". There remain, nonetheless, certain core principles that are the foundation of scientific inquiry today.\n\nIn \"Quod Nihil Scitur\" (1581), Francisco Sanches refers to another book title, \"De modo sciendi\" (on the method of knowing). This work appeared in Spanish as \"Método universal de las ciencias\".\n\nIn 1833 Robert and William Chambers published their 'Chambers's information for the people'. Under the rubric 'Logic' we find a description of investigation that is familiar as scientific method,\n\nInvestigation, or the art of inquiring into the nature of causes and their operation, is a leading characteristic of reason [...] Investigation implies three things – Observation, Hypothesis, and Experiment [...] The first step in the process, it will be perceived, is to observe...\n\nIn 1885, the words \"Scientific method\" appear together with a description of the method in Francis Ellingwood Abbot's 'Scientific Theism',\n\nNow all the established truths which are formulated in the multifarious propositions of science have been won by the use of Scientific Method. This method consists in essentially three distinct steps (1) observation and experiment, (2) hypothesis, (3) verification by fresh observation and experiment.\n\nThe Eleventh Edition of \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" did not include an article on scientific method; the Thirteenth Edition listed scientific management, but not method. By the Fifteenth Edition, a 1-inch article in the \"Micropædia\" of Britannica was part of the 1975 printing, while a fuller treatment (extending across multiple articles, and accessible mostly via the index volumes of Britannica) was available in later printings.\n\nIn the past few centuries, some statistical methods have been developed, for reasoning in the face of uncertainty, as an outgrowth of methods for eliminating error. This was an echo of the program of Francis Bacon's \"Novum Organum\" of 1620. Bayesian inference acknowledges one's ability to alter one's beliefs in the face of evidence. This has been called belief revision, or defeasible reasoning: the models in play during the phases of scientific method can be reviewed, revisited and revised, in the light of further evidence. This arose from the work of Frank P. Ramsey\n(1903–1930), of John Maynard Keynes\n(1883–1946), and earlier, of William Stanley Jevons (1835–1882) in economics.\n\nThe question of how science operates and therefore how to distinguish genuine science from pseudoscience has importance well beyond scientific circles or the academic community. In the judicial system and in public policy controversies, for example, a study's deviation from \"accepted scientific practice\" is grounds for rejecting it as junk science or pseudoscience. However, the high public perception of science means that pseudoscience is widespread. An advertisement in which an actor wears a white coat and product ingredients are given Greek or Latin sounding names is intended to give the impression of scientific endorsement. Richard Feynman has likened pseudoscience to cargo cults in which many of the external forms are followed, but the underlying basis is missing: that is, fringe or alternative theories often present themselves with a pseudoscientific appearance to gain acceptance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50712780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50712780", "title": "Ibn Hatim", "text": "Ibn Hatim\n\nBadr al-Dīn Muḥammad ibn Ḥātim al-Hamdānī, commonly known simply as Ibn Hatim, was a 13th-century official and historian in Yemen, under the Rasulid dynasty.\n\nVery little is known about Ibn Hatim's life, all of which is gleaned from his chief historical work, \"Kitāb al-Simṭ al-ghālī al-thaman fī akhbār al-mulūk min al-Ghuzz bi ’l-Yaman\". His date of birth is unknown, but he was a member of the Banu Hatim clan of the Banu Yam, who were dominant in the region of the provincial capital, Sana'a. Although an Isma'ili, he managed to have a successful career under the Sunni Rasulids, rising under Sultan al-Muzaffar Yusuf I (r. 1249–1295) to become one of only a handful of officials \"employed by the sultan in the capacity of roving ambassador, personally representing him wherever in the country he was needed, now negotiating with recalcitrant tribes, now conveying a personal message from the sultan, at times even participating in military operations\" (G. R. Smith). The date of his death is likewise unknown.\n\nIbn Hatim wrote two historical works, the first being \"Kitāb al-ʿIqd al-thamīn fī akhbār mulūk al-Yaman al-mutaʾakhkhirīn\", a general history of Yemen, which has not survived. He is therefore known from his other work, the \"Kitāb al-Simṭ\", a history of Yemen under the Ayyubids and the first two Rasulid sultans. G. R. Smith writes that despite a slight bias towards his own clan, Ibn Hatim's account is \"a refreshingly impartial one\", and contains much unique information about the country during the period it covers.\n"}
{"id": "1941376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1941376", "title": "J. C. Stobart", "text": "J. C. Stobart\n\nJohn Clarke Stobart (5 March 1878 – 11 May 1933), commonly known as J. C. Stobart, wrote two famous and influential books, The Glory that was Greece and The Grandeur that was Rome. He was also a classical scholar, a University of Cambridge lecturer, an HM Inspector of Schools and the BBC's first Director of Education.\n\nKnown as 'Jack' to his relations and friends, Stobart was born in Swyre Rectory, Dorset, England, on 5 March 1878. His father, William Stobart, was the Rector, his mother was Susan Elizabeth (née Morris), the daughter of a farmer in Rutland, and he had two elder sisters. Soon after his birth his father was appointed Rector of Bermondsey in London and the family moved to London. He was educated at Rugby School and as a Bell Scholar at Trinity College Cambridge, obtaining his BA in 1901 (MA in 1904). He also studied briefly at Greifswald University in Germany and in Edinburgh, before becoming a teacher at Merchant Taylor's School in London.\n\nIn 1904, he married Mary Currey Gibson, daughter of the Reverend Thomas Gibson, Vicar of St Sepulchre's in London. They had two daughters, Elizabeth and Margaret, both born in Cambridge, where in 1907 Stobart became a lecturer at Trinity College. Two years later he was appointed one of His Majesty's Inspectors of Schools and during the First World War worked for the Ministry of Munitions before acting as Assistant Secretary to the British War Cabinet of 1917–18.\n\nAfter the war, he helped organise the 1924 British Empire Exhibition at Wembley and in 1925 joined the BBC as its first Director of Education. He was responsible for two long-lasting programmes, \"Children's Hour\" and \"The Epilogue\" and according to one source suggested the BBC's motto, 'Nation Shall Speak Peace Unto Nation]'. He also proposed creating a new cultural network, to be named the \"Minerva\" programme, after the Roman goddess of wisdom, but this idea was turned down and was not realised until the creation of 'The Third Programme' at the end of the Second World War.\n\nHis mild but incisive manner, his humour and his attractive voice earned him the title of the 'BBC's charmer' and he became well-known all over the world for his regular New Year’s Eve broadcast, 'The Grand Good-night'. He was already dying of diabetes when he broadcast his last Grand Good-night on December 31, 1932, from his bedroom in Kensington.\n\nMuch of the humour, charm and enthusiastic optimism mentioned in his many obituaries still comes across from the friendly, lucid style of his two most famous books, whose 'point of view', according to his Preface to \"The Grandeur that was Rome\", 'is that of humanity and the progress of civilisation'. The books were ground-breaking and successful partly because of their popular as well as scholarly approach and partly because they included what were then newly sumptuous photographic illustrations.\n\nStobart writes in his Preface: 'The pictures are an integral part of my scheme. It is not possible with Rome, as it was with Greece, to let pictures and statues take the place of wars and treaties. Wars and treaties are an essential part of the Grandeur of Rome...the pictures are chosen so that the reader's eye may be able to gather its own impression of the Roman genius.'\n\nHe disagrees with Edward Gibbon's pessimistic view of the \"Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\", pointing out that 'The mere notion of empire continuing to decline and fall for five centuries is ridiculous' and remarking that 'this is one of the cases which prove that History is made not so much by heroes or natural forces as by historians', since 'if all the Roman historians had perished and only the inscriptions remained we should have a very different picture of the Roman Empire, a picture much brighter and, I think, much more faithful to truth.' He admires the Romans for their law, discipline, engineering and especially their sanitation, but it is clear that he prefers the Greeks for their art, philosophy, mathematics and literature.\n\nStobart wrote and edited several other books on English and Classical literature. Two books, \"The Divine Spark\" and \"The Gospel of Happiness\" were published posthumously. He died on 11 May 1933, at his country cottage next to West Byfleet golf-course in Surrey and was buried at Old Byfleet, where his grave can still be seen. The offer of a knighthood was in the post when he died.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40525210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40525210", "title": "James Dugald Somerville", "text": "James Dugald Somerville\n\nJames Dugold Somerville (1868 – March 1960), born in Glasgow, was a South Australian historian with a special interest in Eyre's Peninsula, especially Port Lincoln.\n\nSomerville was the third son of Peter Somerville (25 April 1834 – 8 January 1929) of Glasgow, floriculturist, and his wife Christina née Leitch (ca.1840 – 17 June 1923) whom he married in 1860 and with five children arrived in South Australia in the \"Saxon\" in May 1871, and settled at Glen Osmond, then Knoxville (modern day Glenside or Glenunga).\n\nOn 20 October 1896 he married Edith Tapley (1869 – 1971), a daughter of J. M. Tapley of Tapleys Hill, South Australia. They had one daughter, Mabel.\n\nFrom June 1909 to September 1911 he was Superintendent and Resident Railway Engineer of the Darwin and Pine Creek railway.\n\nHe was Resident Railway Engineer for the South Australian Railways at Port Lincoln, and on his retirement in 1933 began the work for which he is known; beginning with the compilation of a large album of newspaper cuttings, extracts from books and other material. Then from October 1934 he contributed several hundreds of articles on historical themes to the \"Port Lincoln Times\". He was able to enlist the assistance of a large number of private correspondents and public bodies, notably the Port Lincoln Council and the South Australian Archives.\n\nHe was secretary of the Historical Memorials committee of the Royal Geographical Society of South Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "35485742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35485742", "title": "Johann Jacob Grasser", "text": "Johann Jacob Grasser\n\nJohann Jacob Grasser (24 February 1579 – 20 March 1627) was a scholar and polyhistor of Basel.\nHe studied theology and was active as a poet, in the sciences and in geography. He was \"Magister Artium\" and \"Poeta laureatus\" in Basel in 1601. He travelled across Switzerland and in Europe during 1603 to 1608. When he was in Nîmes, he wrote a treatise on the Roman antiquities there which was reprinted several times. In 1607, he was given the title of Count Palatine by the Imperial Commissioner in Padua, from which time he styled himself as \"Ioannes Iacobus Grasserus, Civis Romanus, Comes Palatinus\".\n\nHe was pastor in Bennwil and Hölstein during 1610 to 1612, and sacristan at St. Theodore church in Basel during 1612 to 1627.\nHe published various editions and translations, besides his own works of moderate Calvinist theology, historiography and travel literature.\nHis 1624 Swiss \"Heldenbuch\" is without historiographical value but noted for its social criticism.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48843682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48843682", "title": "John Parkington (archaeology)", "text": "John Parkington (archaeology)\n\nJohn Parkington is an Emeritus professor in archaeology and hunter-gatherers, paleoenvironmental reconstruction and human ecology, prehistoric art, coastal archaeology.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24118862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24118862", "title": "Journal of Anthropological Archaeology", "text": "Journal of Anthropological Archaeology\n\nThe Journal of Anthropological Archaeology is a peer-reviewed academic journal in the field of archaeology. The journal was founded in 1982, appears four times per year, and is published by Elsevier. Since its beginnings, the \"Journal of Anthropological Archaeology\" has produced 40 volumes. The current editor is John O'Shea (University of Michigan). Publications in the journal focus on understanding the operation, organization, and evolution of human societies. Contributions to the journal are not limited to those submissions by archaeologists only. Contributions from practitioners from fields and sub disciplines that complement the interests of the \"Journal of Anthropological Archaeology\" readership are commonplace. Articles may be published from ethnologists, ecologists, sociologists, and evolutionary biologists, in addition to archaeologists. The data expressed in the journal ranges from early archaeological evidence of human culture to work by contemporary ethnographers.\n\nAuthors have the option to choose between publishing their content as open access articles which allow the general public to access the information, or subscription access only. Subscription access only allows the article to be viewed by paying journal subscribers. Elsevier applies the same peer review criterion to articles regardless of the author's publication access decision.\n\nThe \"Journal of Anthropological Archaeology\" offers the AudioSlides service free of charge to the journal's contributors and readers. The service offers authors the opportunity to verbally explain their work. Audio files may be embedded in personal websites and are attached to their respective articles.\n\nThe \"Journal of Anthropological Archaeology\" also offers interactive maps that allow readers to view geospatial data provided by the author through Google Maps. The interactive maps are KML or KMZ files uploaded by the author. These maps allow the author to pinpoint specific research locations and create annotations for those locations. They are also beneficial to readers who want to understand the author's geographical data and interact with it in an interesting way.\n\n"}
{"id": "11029706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11029706", "title": "Joyce Marcus", "text": "Joyce Marcus\n\nJoyce Marcus is a Latin American archaeologist and professor in the Department of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. She also holds the position of Curator of Latin American Archaeology, University of Michigan Museum of Anthropological Archaeology. Marcus has published extensively in the field of Latin American archaeological research. Her focus has been primarily on the Zapotec, Maya, and coastal Andean civilizations of Central and South America. Much of her fieldwork has been concentrated in the Valley of Oaxaca, Mexico. She is known for her \"Dynamic model\", four-tiered hierarchy, and her use of interdisciplinary study.\n\nJoyce Marcus was born in California. She credits receiving a copy of \"An Introduction to the Study of the Maya Hieroglyphs\" by S.G. Morley from Dr. Robert F. Heizer in 1969 after a field season in Lovelock, Nevada with influencing her to get into the field of hieroglyphics.\n\nShe received her B.A. from the University of California, Berkeley in 1969, and went on to receive her M.A. in 1971 and her Ph.D in 1974, both from Harvard University. She did her dissertation under her mentor, Tatiana Proskouriakoff, and Gordon R. Willey, Jeremy A. Sabloff, and Evon Z. Vogt. Her book, \"Emblem and State in the Classic Maya Lowlands: An Epigraphic Approach to Territorial Organization\", is the published version of her dissertation.\n\nMarcus has spent her entire teaching career at the University of Michigan, from 1973 to the present, though she has been invited to guest lecture all over the world. She became a curator for Latin American Archaeology for the University of Michigan Museum of Anthropology in 1978. She has also consulted for the American Museum of Natural History in New York, the University Museum at the University of Pennsylvania, the Cotson Institute of Archaeology at the University of California, Los Angeles, and the Peabody Museum at Harvard University.\n\nIn 1997 Marcus was elected to the National Academy of Sciences, and in 2005 she became the first archaeologist elected to the council. In 2005 the University of Michigan awarded her the Robert L. Carneiro Distinguished University Professor of Social Evolution. Marcus is also a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, American Philosophical Society, and Institute of Andean Studies. She is a member of the American Anthropological Association, the Society for American Archaeology, the American Society for Ethnohistory, the Midwest Andeanist Society, and the Midwest Mesoamerican Society.\n\nShe has received funding from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Ford Foundation, the Bowditch Fund at Harvard University, Dumbarton Oaks, the American Association for University Women, the National Science Foundation, and the University of Michigan.\n\nWilliam J. Folan invited her to record the Maya monuments at Calakmul, Campech and surrounding areas in 1983-1984. She has done research at Dumbarton Oaks Center for Pre-Columbian Studies in Washington, DC. Marcus often works and publishes with her husband Kent V. Flannery. Marcus and Flannery directed the Valley of Oaxaca Human Ecology Project with the University of Michigan, a long-term project designed by Flannery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26575592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26575592", "title": "Jure matris", "text": "Jure matris\n\nJure matris (iure matris) is a Latin phrase meaning \"by right of his mother\" or \"in right of his mother\".\n\nIt is commonly encountered in the law of inheritance when a noble title or other right passes from mother to son. It is also used in the context of monarchy in cases where a woman holds a title in her own right but grants exercise of the power to her son. In many cultures it was common for the husband of a titled woman to exercise power on her behalf, and sometimes after his death she allowed their son and heir the same privilege during her lifetime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1164173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1164173", "title": "Jōō (Kamakura period)", "text": "Jōō (Kamakura period)\n\n, also romanized as Jō-ō, was a Japanese era name (年号, \"nengō\", lit. year name) after \"Jōkyū\" and before \"Gennin.\" This period spanned the years from April 1222 to November 1224. The reigning emperor was Go-Horikawa\"-tennō\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55536741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55536741", "title": "Kelif el Boroud", "text": "Kelif el Boroud\n\nKelif el Boroud, also known as Kehf el Baroud, is an archaeological site in Morocco. It is located to the south of Rabat, near Dar es Soltan. \n\nHuman fossils excavated in the area have been radiocarbon-dated to the Late Neolithic, around 3,000 BCE. Ancient DNA analysis of these specimens indicates that they carried the broadly-distributed paternal haplogroup T-M184 as well as the maternal haplogroups K1, T2 and X2, the latter of which were common mtDNA lineages in Neolithic Europe and Anatolia.\n\n"}
{"id": "22999674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22999674", "title": "Lisa Sousa", "text": "Lisa Sousa\n\nLisa Sousa (born 1962) is an American academic historian active in the field of Latin American studies. A specialist in the colonial-era history of Latin America and of Colonial Mexico in particular, Sousa is noted for her research, commentary, and translations of colonial Mesoamerican literature and Nahuatl-language historical texts. She has also published research on historical and contemporary indigenous peoples in Mexico, the roles of women in indigenous societies and cultural definitions of gender. Sousa holds a position as assistant professor in the History Department at Occidental College in Los Angeles, California.\n\nLisa Sousa was born 1962 in Sebastopol, California. She attended the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) as an undergraduate, completing a B.A. in Latin American studies in 1990. Her postgraduate studies in Latin American history were also undertaken at UCLA, where her research focused on the history and experience of women and indigenous cultures in colonial-era Mexico.\n\nSousa first completed her Master's degree in 1992 before entering the doctorate studies program, and was awarded her PhD in 1998. Her doctoral dissertation, \"Women in Native Societies and Cultures of Colonial Mexico\", won UCLA's Mary Wollstonecraft Dissertation Award for the best thesis in Women's studies.\n\nAs her PhD was being completed, Sousa obtained a position as adjunct professor at Occidental College in the 1997–98 academic year. After a brief term as a visiting lecturer at UCLA, Sousa took up an assistant professorship at Occidental, from 1998 onwards. In addition to her continuing research and publications in the field, Sousa teaches a number of related courses in Latin American history, Mesoamerican literature and gender studies, and also provides instruction in learning Nahuatl.\n\nDuring the course of her studies at UCLA Sousa obtained a proficiency in Classical Nahuatl, an indigenous language of the central Mexican altiplano and \"lingua franca\" of the Aztec Empire at the time of the Spanish conquest in the 16th century.\n\nWhile studying at UCLA in the 1990s Sousa researched and published papers on a themes relating to women and gender among indigenous cultures in Mexico. Themes analysed by Sousa include rationalisation of and attitudes to violence against women, the representation and participation of women in crime and colonial-era rebellion, and slavery of indigenous groups in the New World. Her publications and seminars also explore the nature of gender roles in Mesoamerican cultures, particularly among Nahua, Mixtec and Zapotec peoples of the pre- and post-conquest eras.\n\nIn 1998 as her PhD was being completed, Sousa co-edited and translated an English-language edition of the \"Huei tlamahuiçoltica\", a 17th-century Nahuatl-language manuscript that is central to the claims of the Guadalupan apparition to Juan Diego. The book, \"The Story of Guadalupe: Luis Laso de la Vega's Huei tlamahuiçoltica of 1649\", jointly published by Stanford University Press and UCLA's Latin American Center, also contains analysis of and translated excerpts from the 1648 document, \"Imagen de la Virgen María, Madre de Dios de Guadalupe\" by Miguel Sánchez. Together with her collaborators Stafford Poole and James Lockhart, Sousa affirms that Luis Laso de la Vega was indeed the principal author of the \"Huei tlamahuiçoltica\", and that portions of the work bear affinities with Sánchez's document. They regard Sánchez's \"Imagen de la Virgen María\" as the earliest known written account of the Guadalupan apparition, and that consequently these two mid-17th-century texts are the principal origins of the apparition story, and not any earlier source or tradition contemporaneous with the events purported to have taken place more than a century before those documents were written.\n\nIN 2004, Sousa and UCLA professor Kevin Terraciano were presented with the Robert F. Heizer Article Award by the American Society for Ethnohistory, for their co-authored paper \"The 'Original Conquest' of Oaxaca: Nahua and Mixtec Accounts of the Spanish Conquest\", published the preceding year in the journal \"Ethnohistory.\"\n\nIn 2005 Sousa co-edited and with Matthew Restall and Terraciano a volume of translated colonial-era Nahuatl-, Mayan- and Mixtec-language primary source texts, under the title \"Mesoamerican Voices: Native-Language Writings from Colonial Mexico and Guatemala\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29616534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29616534", "title": "List of the oldest mosques", "text": "List of the oldest mosques\n\nThe designation of the oldest mosque in the world requires careful use of definitions, and must be divided into two parts, the oldest in the sense of oldest surviving building, and the oldest in the sense of oldest mosque congregation. Even here, there is the distinction between old mosque buildings that have been in continuous use as mosques, and those that have been converted to other purposes; and between buildings that have been in continuous use as mosques and those that were shuttered for many decades. In terms of congregations, they are distinguished between early established congregations that have been in continuous existence, and early congregations that ceased to exist.\n\nTo be listed here a site must:\n\nThe following are treated as the oldest mosques or sanctuaries mentioned in the Quran:\n\nNote that the major regions, such as Africa and Eurasia, are sorted alphabetically, whereas the minor regions, such as Northeast and Northwest Africa in Africa, and Arabia and South Asia in Eurasia, are sorted by the dates in which their first mosques were reportedly established, more or less, barring those that are mentioned by name in the Quran.\n\n'Eurasia' is treated here not as a continental landmass, but a combination of European and Asian countries, including island-states such as Japan and the United Kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29660013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29660013", "title": "List of types of funerary monument", "text": "List of types of funerary monument\n\nThis is a list of types of funerary monument, a physical structure that commemorates a deceased person or a group, in the latter case usually those whose deaths occurred at the same time or in similar circumstances. The funerary monument differs from a tomb or cemetery in that while it may or may not contain the body of the deceased, its primary purpose is not simply to house the remains, but to serve as a visible reminder of the dead for the living. It often features inscriptions (epitaphs) or funerary art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46740907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46740907", "title": "Mairbek Vatchagaev", "text": "Mairbek Vatchagaev\n\nMairbek Vatchagaev (born 1965) is a Chechen historian and political analyst on the North Caucasus. Mairbek Vatchagaev was a senior ranking official in the Chechen government of Aslan Maskhadov.\n\nVatchagaev was born in Chechnya. He studied history at the State University of Chechnya, the Research Institute of Chechnya, and the Institute of the Russian History. He defended his doctoral thesis in the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow in 1995.\n\nAfter receiving his doctoral degree, Vatchagaev returned to Chechnya and was placed in charge of the information department of the armed forces of Ichkeria. He worked closely with Aslan Maskhadov, and actively campaigned for him in 1996 before the elections. Together with Turpal Ali Atgeriev, Vatchagaev significantly assisted Maskhadov’s advance to power.\n\nDuring the period 1988–99, Vatchagaev was a press secretary and first adviser to President Maskhadov. At the same time, he was in charge of leading the investigation center functioning under the presidential administration of Ichkeria. In the summer of 1999, Vatchagaev was appointed as the general representative of the Republic of Ichkeria in the Russian Federation. On October 21, 1999, the Russian police detained him. Vatchagaev spent 9 months in the Butyrsk prison in Moscow. Amnesty International declared him to be a political prisoner. He was released in the summer of 2000. Vatchagaev continued to function as a press secretary of President Maskhadov until 2002.\n\nVatchagaev has been studying the history of the North Caucasus and political processes in the region, as well as the history of Islam in Russia since 2002. He has published numerous articles on the history of Chechnya and politics in the North Caucasus and Russia.\n\nHe has extensively contributed to the Jamestown publication \"Eurasia Daily Monitor\" about developments in the North Caucasus.\nVatchagaev is an author of five books on the history and religion of the North Caucasus, including Chechnya in the 19th Century Caucasian Wars :\n\n\nHe is the co-editor-in-chief of the \"Caucasus Survey\" (London, UK). He also co-edits an online magazine \"Prometheus\" (Paris, France). Vatchagaev is the \"Président de l'Association d'études caucasiennes\" (Paris, France).\n"}
{"id": "4830397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4830397", "title": "Manuel Caballero", "text": "Manuel Caballero\n\nManuel Antonio Caballero Agüero (5 December 1931 – 12 December 2010) was a notable Venezuelan historian, journalist, best-selling author and professor of contemporary Venezuelan History at the Central University of Venezuela.\n\nCaballero was born in Barquisimeto, studied History at the Central University of Venezuela and obtained a PhD at University College London. With the publication of his PhD dissertation he became the first Venezuelan author to be published by Cambridge University Press. In 1989 he was invited to teach at Universitá degli Studi di Napoli in Italy. He received the National Award on Journalism (Premio Nacional de Periodismo) and the National History Award (Premio Nacional de Historia, 1994) and in 2005 he was elected as a member of the \"Academia Nacional de la Historia\" (or National Academy of History of Venezuela). He wrote regularly for Venezuelan newspapers \"El Nacional, El Diario de Caracas\" and most recently \"El Universal.\" Despite his past as a left-wing thinker and political activist, in particular against president Rómulo Betancourt, in his latter years he became one of the most vocal and vehement critics of president Hugo Chávez and his administration. He revised his perspective on President Betancourt in a biography written in 2004.\n\nOn 2010, he underwent a prostate surgery that triggered a series of infections unresponsive to antibiotics, further complicated by diabetes. He died on 12 December 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41213275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41213275", "title": "Michael G. Vann", "text": "Michael G. Vann\n\nMichael G. Vann (born June 19, 1967) is an American historian who serves as Associate Professor of History at California State University, Sacramento. He specializes in the history of the French colonial empire. Vann holds a Ph.D. in History from the University of California, Santa Cruz, where he was a student of Tyler Stovall and Edmund Burke III. His dissertation was on the history of white supremacy in French colonial Hanoi. He is a graduate of 'Iolani School in Honolulu, Hawai'i, his home town.\n\nVann has won two Fulbright awards, one for doctoral research in France, 1995-1996, and a Senior Scholar award to Indonesia, 2012-2013. In Indonesia he was a visiting scholar for the History and American Studies departments at Universitas Gadjah Mada in Yogyakarta, Java.\n\nHe was President of the French Colonial Historical Society from 2008 to 2010. He is a member of a post-1999 wave of historians who adopted a new critical approach to this history of France and its colonial empire.\n\nVann has published two books: \"The Colonial Good Life: André Joyeux's Vision of French Indochina\" and \"20th Century Voices: Selected Readings in World History.\" \nVann was featured on public radio's Freakonomics, speaking about how his research on rat hunting in colonial Hanoi related to the economic concept \"perverse incentive\". He was interviewed about French colonialism on KUSP's 7th Avenue Project.\n\nHe has also published articles on Indonesian history and politics, including the Cebongan Prison raid, 2013, and Lawang Sewu, a Dutch era haunted house in Semarang.\n\nHailing from O'ahu, Hawai'i, Vann is an accomplished surfer who frequently travels to Indonesia. He holds a black belt in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. He has taught Brazilian Jiu Jitsu at Kaijin MMA in Santa Cruz, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "3670297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3670297", "title": "Phonological history of English consonants", "text": "Phonological history of English consonants\n\nThis article describes those aspects of the phonological history of the English language which concern consonants.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe voiceless stops /p/, /t/, /k/ are typically aspirated when they begin a stressed syllable, becoming , as described under English phonology (obstruents). There is some regional variation in the degree of aspiration, and in some Scottish and northern English accents aspiration does not occur at all.\n\nIn certain accents, such as Geordie (among younger women) and in some speakers of Dublin English, /p/, /t/ and /k/ can be preaspirated when they come at the end of a word or utterance, becoming .\n\nFlapping, or tapping, is a process whereby /t/ or /d/ is pronounced as the alveolar flap in certain positions, especially between vowels (but also sometimes after other sonorants). It may be perceived as, for example, the pronunciation of \"butter\" as \"budder\". It occurs especially in North American English (to varying extents) and in Australian and New Zealand English.\n\nApart from the T-voicing that results from flapping (described above), some dialects feature other instances of voicing or lenition of the stops /p/, /t/ and /k/. In Geordie, these stops may be fully voiced ([b], [d], [ɡ]) in intervocalic position. In Devon, stops and other obstruents may be voiced (or at least lenited) between vowels and when final after a weak vowel, so for example the /k/ and /t/ in \"jacket\" may approach the realizations [ɡ] and [d], making the word sound similar or identical to \"jagged\".\n\nStops, chiefly the voiceless stops, and especially /t/, are frequently glottalized or pre-glottalized in certain positions; that is, a stop may be replaced with the glottal stop , or else a glottal stop may be inserted before it. These phenomena are strongly dependent on the phonetic environment and on dialect. For details, see T-glottalization, as well as English phonology (obstruents) and glottalization in consonant clusters.\n\nIf all final voiceless stops are glottalized, as may occur in some London speech, then sets of words such as \"lick\", \"lit\" and \"lip\" may become homophones, pronounced .\n\nH-dropping is the omission of initial in words like \"house\", \"heat\" and \"hangover\". It is common in many dialects, especially in England, Wales, Australia and Jamaica, but is generally stigmatized, and is not a feature of the standard accents. The /h/ is nonetheless frequently dropped in all forms of English in the weak forms of function words like \"he\", \"him\", \"her\", \"his\", \"had\" and \"have\". The opposite of H-dropping, called H-insertion or H-adding, may arise as a hypercorrection by typically H-dropping speakers, or as a spelling pronunciation.\n\nThe voiceless velar and palatal fricative sounds [x] and [ç], considered to be allophones of /h/, and reflected by the in the spelling of words such as \"night\", \"taught\" and \"weight\", were lost in later Middle English or in Early Modern English. Their loss was accompanied by certain changes in the previous vowels. In some cases [x] became /f/, as in \"laugh\".\n\nA /x/ is still heard in words of the above type in certain Scots and northern English traditional dialect speech. A /x/ is more commonly heard – especially in the Celtic countries, but also for many speakers elsewhere – in the word \"loch\" and in certain proper names such as \"Buchan\".\n\nFor details of the above phenomena, see H-loss (Middle English). See also the vocalization of the voiced velar fricative.\n\nThe Old English fricatives had voiceless and voiced allophones, the voiced forms occurring in certain environments, such as between vowels. In Early Middle English, partly due to borrowings from French, these split into separate phonemes: . See Middle English phonology – Voiced fricatives.\n\nAlso in the Middle English period, the voiced affricate took on phonemic status (in Old English it is considered to have been an allophone of /j/). It occurred in Middle English not only in words like \"brigge\" (\"bridge\"), in which it had been present in Old English, but also in French loans such as \"juge\" (\"judge\") and \"general\".\n\nAfter the Middle English period, a fourth voiced fricative, , developed as a phoneme (alongside the voiceless ). This arose from yod-coalescence () in words like \"measure\", and from late French loans such as \"rouge\" and \"beige\".\n\nAs noted above, the Old English phoneme split into two phonemes in early Middle English: a voiceless dental fricative and a voiced dental fricative. Both continued to be spelt .\n\nCertain English accents feature variant pronunciations of these sounds. These include fronting, where they merge with /f/ and /v/ (found in Cockney and some other dialects); stopping, where they approach /t/ and /d/ (as in some Irish speech); alveolarization, where they become (in some African varieties); and debuccalization, where becomes before a vowel (found in some Scottish English).\n\nInitial fricative voicing is a process that occurs in some traditional accents of the English West Country, where the fricatives , , and are voiced to , , and when they occur at the beginning of a word. (Words beginning , like \"three\", develop /dr/ instead.) In these accents, \"sing\" and \"farm\" are pronounced and . The phenomenon is well known as a stereotypical feature, but is now rare in actual speech. Some such pronunciations have spread from these dialects to become standard usage: the words \"vane\", \"vat\" and \"vixen\" all had initial /f/ in Old English (\"fana\", \"fæt\", \"fyxen\").\n\nA similar phenomenon occurred in both German and Dutch.\n\n\nIn parts of the west and southwest of England, initial /w/ may be dropped in words like \"wool\" and \"woman\"; occasionally, though, a /w/ may be inserted before certain vowels, as in \"wold\" for \"old\" and \"bwoiling\" for \"boiling\". Similarly, initial /j/ may be lost in words like \"yeast\" and \"yes\" (this has also been reported in parts of eastern England), and may be added in words like \"earth\" (making \"yearth\").\n\nFor the much more widespread deletion of /j/ in consonant clusters, see yod-dropping (and compare also yod-coalescence and yod-rhotacization). For the historical loss of /w/ in such words as \"who\" and \"write\", see pronunciation of \"wh\" and reduction of /wr/.\n\nOld and Middle English /r/ was historically pronounced as an alveolar trill, [r]. At some time between later Middle English and Early Modern English, it changed to an alveolar approximant, , in the standard accents. Some Scottish speakers, however, retain the original trilled (\"rolled\") /r/.\n\nAnother possible realization of /r/ is the alveolar tap, . This is common (alongside ) in Scotland, and is also found in certain other accents, chiefly in positions between vowels or between a consonant and a vowel – this occurs, for example, in some Liverpool English and in some upper-class RP (this should not be confused with the tap pronunciation of /t/ and /d/, found especially in North America).\n\nIn most General American, /r/ is before a vowel, but when not followed by a vowel is generally realized as an r-colored vowel, [ɚ], or as r-coloring on the preceding vowel. In many accents of English, including RP, /r/ is lost altogether when not followed by a vowel – for this, see rhoticity in English (and for related phenomena, linking and intrusive R). For vowel changes before /r/, see English-language vowel changes before historic /r/.\n\nA uvular realization of /r/, the \"Northumbrian burr\", is used by some speakers in the far north of England.\nA relatively recent innovation in the southeast of England, possibly originating from Cockney, is the use of a labiodental approximant, , for /r/. To some listeners this can sound like a .\n\nVelarization of /l/ in positions where there is no vowel following, producing a \"dark L\", is a phenomenon that goes back to Old English times. Today there is much variation between dialects as regards the degree and distribution of this velarization; see English phonology (sonorants).\n\nIn Early Modern English, in many words in which a dark /l/ followed the vowel or , the /l/ either disappeared or underwent vocalization, usually with some kind of diphthongization or compensatory lengthening of the preceding vowel. This affected:\n\nAs noted under some of the points above, /l/ may be reintroduced in some of the words from which it has been lost, as a spelling pronunciation. This happens sometimes in Irish English, where for example \"Dundalk\" may be pronounced (in standard English the is silent).\n\nThe /l/ has also been lost in the words \"would\" and \"should\". The word \"could\" was never pronounced with /l/; its spelling results from analogy with the former words.\n\nModern L-vocalization (the replacement of \"dark\" /l/ with a non-syllabic vowel sound, usually similar to [ʊ] or [o]) is a feature of certain accents, particularly in London English and in near-RP speech that has been influenced by it (\"Estuary English\"), in some New York speech, in the American South and African American Vernacular English (AAVE), and according to some reports in New Zealand English. Also in AAVE and some southern American accents, L-dropping may occur when the sound comes after a vowel and before a labial consonant in the same syllable, causing pronunciations like for \"help\" and for \"self\".\n\nIn some accents around Bristol, \"intrusive L\" is found, where an /l/ is inserted at the end of words ending in schwa, like \"comma\" and \"idea\". This is now somewhat stigmatized, but far from rare. The name \"Bristol\" itself was formerly \"Bristow\".\n\nIn some modern English accents, significant \"pre-L breaking\" occurs when /l/ follows certain vowels (, , and diphthongs ending or ). Here the vowel develops a centering offglide (an additional schwa) before the /l/. This may cause \"reel\" to be pronounced like \"real\", and \"tile\", \"boil\" and \"fowl\" to rhyme with \"dial\", \"royal\" and \"vowel\". Wells considers this breaking to be a feature of midwestern General American, as well as New York English. Similar pre-L schwa-insertion may also occur after (in rhotic accents), leading to pronunciations like for \"world\".\n\nFinal obstruent devoicing is the full devoicing of final obstruents that occurs for some AAVE speakers in Detroit where obstruents are devoiced at the end of a word. The preceding length of the vowel is maintained when the final obstruents are devoiced in AAVE, hence the pronunciations and for \"big\" and \"bad\".\n\nMost varieties of English don't have full devoicing of final voiced obstruents. Nevertheless, voiced obstruents are partially devoiced in final position in English, especially when phrase-final or when followed by a voiceless consonant (for example, \"bad cat\" ). The most salient distinction between \"bad\" and \"bat\" is not the voicing of the final consonant but rather the duration of the vowel and possible glottalization of final : \"bad\" is pronounced while \"bat\" is .\n\nFinal consonant deletion is the nonstandard deletion of single consonants in syllable-final position occurring for some AAVE speakers resulting in pronunciations like:\n\n\nWhen final nasal consonants are deleted, nasality is maintained on the preceding vowel. When voiced stops are deleted, length of the preceding vowel is maintained. Consonants remaining from reduced final clusters may be eligible for deletion. The deletion occurs especially if the final consonant is a nasal or a stop. Final-consonant deletion is much less frequent than the more common final-cluster reduction.\n\nConsonants can also be deleted at the end of a morpheme boundary, leading to pronunciations like for \"kids\".\n\nIn Cardiff English, the contrast may be reduced before and unstressed . Phonetically, the merged sound is either an alveolar tap, or a postalveolar approximant. This merger makes e.g. \"starting\" and \"starring\" homophonous as or , but it can also apply across word boundaries, so that both \"but a\" and \"butter\" can be homophonous with \"borough\" as either or .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5384242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5384242", "title": "Pieter Oud", "text": "Pieter Oud\n\nPieter Jacobus Oud (5 December 1886 – 12 August 1968) was a Dutch politician of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) who held numerous political offices, including member of the House of Representatives, Minister of Finance and Mayor of Rotterdam. He was a founding member of the Labour Party (PvdA) and the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) which when on to become some of the most influential political parties in Dutch politics. Before World War II, he was member of the left-liberal Free-thinking Democratic League (VDB).\n\nOud came from a middle-class family, his father traded in tobacco, wine and, later, stocks and served as alderman in Purmerend. Oud attended HBS in Amsterdam graduating in 1904. He continued to study to become notary between 1904 and 1907. During this time he had become member of the board of the League of Freethinking Propaganda Associations, the freethinking liberal youth organisation. He took a private courses in registration in Gorinchem between 1907 and 1909. Between 1909 and 1911 he was civil servant within the ministry of Finance responsible for registration and government possessions. In 1911 he became a tax collector on Texel. In 1912 he took his matriculation in order to study law at the University of Amsterdam. He combined his work as tax collector with his study of law. In the same year he married Johanna Cornelia Fischer, from this marriage they got one son. In 1914 he became tax collector in Ommen. Meanwhile, he was mobilised as Sergeant of the seventh regiment infantry, which was stationed near Amsterdam between 1914 and 1916. Between 1915 and 1919 he was member of the national board of the VDB. He graduated in 1917 on basis of a disputation.\n\nOud was elected in 1917 elections for the VDB, the last election with runoff voting, in the second round he beat the Staalman of the left-wing Christian Democratic Party for the district of Den Helder. He retained his legal position as tax collector, but was given a leave for undetermined time. he was even promoted to inspector of finances in 1921, while on leave. In 1918 Oud stood for elections again and was elected with 5,000 preference votes, mainly from the district of Den Helder. While MP, Oud also served as secretary of the VDB national board and editor of the \"De Vrijzinnige Democraat\", the party's magazine. In parliament Oud took a particular interest in military matters and education, and served as the party's finance spokesperson. As MP he served as member of the Committee on the Navy between 1923 and 1933 and the Committee on the Army since 1925. He was chairman of the Association for the promotion of Public Education \"People's Education\" for many years.\n\nIn 1933 Oud became Minister of Finance in the second cabinet led by Colijn. As minister he was responsible for a large scale operation of budget cuts, during a time of economic crisis. In 1935 he proposed the \"Bezuigingswet 1935\" (the Budget Cut law 1935) which involved many budget cuts and financial reorganisations: salaries of civil servants were cut, the old age pensions were financed in a different way and for budgetary reasons, soldiers were to become civil servants after a certain period. Although his proposals lead to a political crisis, they were nonetheless carried by parliament. In the same year, after Marchant left the VDB after a scandal, Oud succeeded him as political leader of the VDB. Oud led the VDB in the 1937 elections and returned to the House of Representatives as chair of the parliamentary party. He also served as chair for the Committee on government expenditure.\n\nHe left the House of Representatives in 1938 to become mayor of Rotterdam. As mayor he also served in the College of Curators of the University of Rotterdam and as chair of the Association of Dutch Municipalities. After he stepped down in 1952 he became honorary chairman of that association. In 1939 he was elected into the States-Provincial of South Holland. In August 1939 he was offered the position of Minister of Finance in the cabinet of De Geer, but declined.\n\nControversially, Oud did not resign after the German invasion of 1940, although he was not a member of the National Socialist Movement in the Netherlands (NSB). During his period as mayor, he was involved in the reconstruction of the centre of Rotterdam which was destroyed by the German bombings. He was heavily criticised by Dutch politicians for cooperating too much with the NSB, while the NSB criticised him for being uncooperative. In the spring of 1941 he was harassed brutally by members of the NSB, twelve party-members invaded the City Hall, gagged Oud, adorned him with Freemason-like symbols and made pictures of him. In the autumn of 1941 he resigned as mayor and he stood down as member of the States Provincial. He was succeeded by Frederik Ernst Müller. In the summer of 1942 he was briefly held in Sint-Michielsgestel, where many prominent Dutch politicians were held captive. During the war Oud kept far from the resistance movement and instead committed himself to writing several books on parliamentary history. Meanwhile, he kept close contact with important people from the business and the political world of Rotterdam.\n\nIn 1945, after the liberation of the Netherlands, he returned to Rotterdam as mayor, although he was also asked to become mayor of Amsterdam, and he was officially re-appointed in 1946. In the same year the VDB merged with the social democratic SDAP and the left-wing Christian CDU to form the Labour Party. Oud was one of the co-founders of this party and served on the party's board between 1946 and 1947. Meanwhile, he served on many government, business, international and civil society committees, he chaired the government committee for municipal finances between 1946 and 1954, he was member of the board of trustees of the banker Staal, he was member of the pension council of the Dutch Reformed Church since 1946 and he served as chair of the International Union of Municipalities and Local Governments between 1948 and 1954.\n\nOn 3 October 1947 Oud sent a letter to the board of the PvdA with which he resigned as a member. The reason he gave for the split was that the PvdA was moving too much into socialist waters, instead of being committed to progressive politics. The fact that he was refused a position on the party list for the Senate is generally seen as the political reason for Oud's split. Oud never felt at home in the new social-democratic party.\n\nHe immediately founded the Committee of Preparation of the Foundation of a Democratic People's Party, which prepared the foundation of the VVD. He negotiated the merger of the remnants of the old VDB with the newly founded Freedom Party. On 24 January 1948 he became one of the founding members of the liberal VVD, together with Stikker and Korthals and served in its first national board as vice-chair. In 1948 he was elected to the House of Representatives for the VVD, and became chair of the VVD parliamentary party, he combined this position with the position of chair of the party's organisation.\n\nIn parliament he mainly spoke on issues of administrative and constitutional law. He was a very influential member of parliament. When the law concerning the decolonisation of Indonesia, a very controversial issue, was voted on, the two-thirds majority was only reached because of amendment proposed by Oud ensured the support of the VVD. In 1950-51 Oud came into conflict with the VVD's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Stikker, over the policy concerning New Guinea. Between 1950 and 1953 he was a member of the Government Committee Van Schaik, which prepared a constitutional change. In 1952 he did not seek to be reappointed as Rotterdam's mayor, and instead became extraordinary professor of Constitutional Administrative law at the University of Rotterdam, which he remained until 1957. Between 1953 and 1963 he was chair of the Justice Committee of the House of Representatives. As such he was heavily involved in the preparation of many laws, and served as chair on the committees preparing the laws on the provinces, the police, archives, patents and many more. In 1959 he came into conflict with Van Riel, the chair of the VVD's parliamentary party in the Senate, because Van Riel wanted to become minister, but Oud denied him this.\n\nIn the last years of his period in the House of Representatives, Oud was the eldest member of the House and on many times functioned as President, when a new president was elected for instance. Before the 1963 elections Oud announced that he would not continue as MP, he was succeeded by the Minister of Home Affairs Edzo Toxopeus. In the same year he was appointed as Minister of State, an honorary title.\n\nAfter 1963, Oud retired from Dutch political life. He was only asked upon at times of great crisis. In 1966 he was member of the committee, which advised government on the ministerial responsibility towards members of the royal house, together with Willem Drees. In the same year, he co-authored a book on a new constitution.\n\nWhen Oud died in 1968, his family wanted to announce his death after the burial. His GP did not know this, and told a patient that evening that Oud had died that afternoon. The father of this patient happened to be a journalist for the socialist paper Het Vrije Volk, which published a large \"In Memoriam\" the next morning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "637732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=637732", "title": "Pop icon", "text": "Pop icon\n\nA pop icon is a celebrity, character or object whose exposure in popular culture is widely regarded as constituting a defining characteristic of a given society or era. The categorization is usually associated with elements such as longevity, ubiquity and distinction. Moreover, \"pop icon\" status is distinguishable from other kinds of notoriety outside pop culture, such as with historic figures. Some historic figures are recognized as having reached \"pop icon\" status during their era, and such status may continue into the present. Pop icons of previous eras include Benjamin Franklin and Mozart.\n\nUsually, the pop icon status of a celebrity is contingent upon longevity of notoriety. This is in contrast to cult icons, whose notoriety or recognition may be limited to a specific subculture. Some pop icons have left a lasting and indelible mark in the area of their career, and then went on to attain a lasting place of recognition in society at large.\n\nA common element of pop icon status is the ubiquity of imagery and allusions to the iconic figure. It is common for the figure to be recognized and even celebrated in areas outside the original source of celebrity status. An example of this is Albert Einstein, a physicist whose image and legacy have been represented in comic strips, T-shirts, greeting cards and many other contexts.\n\nOften pop icon status implies distinguished association with a societal ideal or archetype. It is not uncommon for iconic figures to have a nickname or sobriquet that is used to emphasize this association. Sometimes the very name of such individuals is even used as a synonym for common words or ideas.\n\nSome pop icons, such as Mickey Mouse, Winnie the Pooh, Bugs Bunny, Superman, Spider-Man, Batman, Darth Vader, The X-Men, Harry Potter, the Simpsons, and even Sherlock Holmes are fictional characters. Even inanimate objects have been recognized as pop icons.\n\nSome figures attain transitory or context-specific \"pop icon\" status for particular events that captivate public attention, such as in the case of the O.J. Simpson trial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15783414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15783414", "title": "Pre-colonial Timor", "text": "Pre-colonial Timor\n\nTimor is an island in South East Asia. Geologically considered a continental crustal fragment, it lies alongside the Sunda shelf, and is the largest in a cluster of islands between Java and New Guinea. European colonialism has shaped Timorese history since 1515 a period when it was divided between the Dutch in the west of the island (now Indonesian West Timor), and the Portuguese in the east (now the independent state of East Timor).\n\nThe island of Timor was populated as part of the human migrations that have shaped Australasia more generally. It is believed that survivors from three waves of migration still live in the country. The first is described by anthropologists as Vedda people who arrived from the north and west at least 42,000 years ago. In 2011 evidence was uncovered, at the Jerimalai cave site, showing that these early settlers had high-level maritime skills at this time, and by implication the technology needed to make ocean crossings to reach Australia and other islands, as they were catching and consuming large numbers of big deep sea fish such as tuna. These excavations also discovered one of the world’s earliest recorded fish hooks, between 16,000 and 23,000 years old.\n\nAround 3000 BC, a second migration brought Melanesians. The earlier Vedda peoples withdrew at this time to the mountainous interior. Finally, proto-Malays arrived from south China and north Indochina. Hakka traders are among those descended from this final group. Timorese origin myths tell of ancestors that sailed around the eastern end of Timor arriving on land in the south. Some stories recount Timorese ancestors journeying from Malay Peninsula or the Minangkabau Highlands of Sumatra.\n\nThe later Timorese were not seafarers, rather they were land focused peoples who did not make contact with other islands and peoples by sea. Timor was part of a region of small islands with small populations of similarly land-focused peoples that now make up eastern Indonesia. Contact with the outside world was via networks of foreign seafaring traders from as far as China and India that served the archipelago. Outside products brought to the region included metal goods, rice, fine textiles, and coins exchanged for local spices, sandalwood, deer horn, bees' wax, and slaves.\n\nTimor is mentioned in the 13th-century Chinsee \"Zhu Fan Zhi\", where it is called \"Ti-wu\" and is noted for its sandalwood. It is called \"Ti-men\" in the \"History of Song\" of 1345. Writing towards 1350, Wang Dayuan refers to a \"Ku-li Ti-men\", which is a corruption of \"Giri Timor\", meaning island of Timor.\n\nNagarakretagama, the chronicles of the Majapahit empire called Timor a tributary, but as Portuguese chronologist Tomé Pires wrote in the 16th century, all islands east of Java were called \"Timor\". Indonesian nationalist used the Majapahit chronicles to claim East Timor as part of Indonesia. Early European explorers report that the island had a number of small chiefdoms or princedoms in the early 16th century. One of the most significant is the Wehali or Wehale kingdom in central Timor, to which the Tetum, Bunak and Kemak ethnic groups were aligned.\n\nBeginning in the early sixteenth century, European colonialists—the Dutch in the island's west, and Portuguese in the east—would divide the island, isolating the East Timorese from the histories of the surrounding archipelago.\n\n"}
{"id": "47507003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47507003", "title": "Pál Kelemen", "text": "Pál Kelemen\n\nPál Kelemen (24 April 1894 – 15 February 1993) was a Hungarian-American archaeologist, art historian, and international art lecturer who contributed to the research of Pre-Columbian art. Kelemen was one of the first to recognize the importance of medieval Spanish colonial artwork of the Americas. Kelemen received the Order of Merit from the government of Ecuador.\n\nBorn in Budapest, Kelemen studied art history at the universities of Budapest, Munich and Paris, initially with an emphasis in pre-19th century Impressionism. During World War I he served for four years as a Hungarian cavalry officer. He witnessed the fall of Lemberg. After the war Kelemen started to study early Christian and Byzantine art. In 1932, Kelemen moved to the United States. On May 2, 1932 he married Elisabeth Hutchings Zulauf and seven years later became a naturalized US citizen.\n\nKelemen carried out several cultural missions and surveys in Latin America, some under the patronage of the Cultural Division of the U.S. Department of State. He also conducted art tours and lectures throughout the United States, Latin America and Europe. Kelemen was a fellow of the Royal Anthropological Institute and the recipient of an honorary degree from the University of Arizona.\n\nKelemen authored several books about art history, particularly on El Greco, and became the founding member of the Bibliophile Society of Hungary. He also contributed to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" and several other publications. Kelemen supported the authenticity of the Dumbarton Oaks birthing figure. In \"Medieval American Art\" (1943) Kelemen called the figure a \"unique statue... cut from a rather pale mottled jade [sic]... unbelievably smooth over the entire surface\".\n\nKelemen died at the age of 98 in La Jolla, California.\n"}
{"id": "11054436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11054436", "title": "Rise of nationalism in Europe", "text": "Rise of nationalism in Europe\n\nNationalism is the ideological basis for the development of the modern nation-state. According to Leon Baradat, nationalism \"calls on people to identify with the interests of their national group and to support the creation of a state - a nation-state - to support those interests.\" It was an important factor in the development of Europe. In the 19th century, a wave of romantic nationalism swept the European continent, transforming its countries. Some newly formed countries, such as Germany and Italy were formed by uniting various regional states with a common \"national identity\". Others, such as Greece, Serbia, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria, were formed by uprisings against the Ottoman Empire and Russia. Nationalism was the ideological impetus that, over the century, transformed Europe. Rule by monarchies and foreign control of territory was replaced by self-determination and newly formed national governments. \n\nThe French Revolution initiated the movement toward the modern nation-state and also played a key role in the birth of nationalism across Europe where radical intellectuals were influenced by Napoleon and the Napoleonic Code, an instrument for the political transformation of Europe. \"Its twin ideological goals, nationalism and democracy, were given substance and form during the tumultuous events beginning at the end of the eighteenth century.\" Revolutionary armies carried the slogan of \"liberty, equality and brotherhood\" and ideas of liberalism and national self-determinism. National awakening also grew out of an intellectual reaction to the Enlightenment that emphasized national identity and developed a romantic view of cultural self-expression through nationhood. The key exponent of the modern idea of the nation-state was the German G. W. Friedrich Hegel. He argued that a sense of nationality was the cement that held modern societies together in the age when dynastic and religious allegiance was in decline. In 1815, at the end of the Napoleonic wars, the major powers of Europe tried to restore the old dynastic system as far as possible, ignoring the principle of nationality in favour of \"legitimism\", the assertion of traditional claims to royal authority. With most of Europe's peoples still loyal to their local province or city, nationalism was confined to small groups of intellectuals and political radicals. Furthermore, political repression, symbolized by the Carlsbad Decrees published in Austria in 1819, pushed nationalist agitation underground.\n\n\nA strong resentment of what came to be regarded as foreign rule began to develop. In Ireland, Italy, Belgium, Greece, Poland, Hungary,and Norway local hostility to alien dynastic authority started to take the form of nationalist agitation. The first revolt in the Ottoman Empire to acquire a national character was the Serbian Revolution (1804–17), which was the culmination of the Serbian renaissance which had begun in Habsburg territory, in Sremski Karlovci. The eight-year Greek War of Independence (1821–29) against Ottoman rule led to an independent Greek state, although with major political influence of the great powers. The Belgian Revolution (1830–31) led to the recognition of independence from the Netherlands in 1839. Over the next two decades nationalism developed a more powerful voice, spurred by nationalist writers championing the cause of self-determination. The Poles attempted twice to overthrow Russian rule in 1831 and 1846. In 1848, revolutions broke out across Europe, sparked by severe famine and economic crisis and mounting popular demand for political change. In Italy, Giuseppe Mazzini used the opportunity to encourage a war mission: \"A people destined to achieve great things for the welfare of humanity must one day or other be constituted a nation\".\nIn Hungary, Lajos Kossuth led a national revolt against Austrian rule; in Transylvania, Avram Iancu led successful revolts in 1846. The 1848 crisis had given nationalism its first full public airing, and in the thirty years that followed no fewer than seven new national states were created in Europe. This was partly the result of the recognition by conservative forces that the old order could not continue in its existing form. Conservative reformers such as Cavour and Bismarck made common cause with liberal political modernizers to create a consensus for the creation of conservative nation-states in Italy and Germany. In the Habsburg Monarchy a compromise was reached with Hungarian nationalists in 1867 granting them virtual independence. Native history and culture were rediscovered and appropriated for the national struggle. Following a conflict between Russia and Turkey, the Great Powers met at Berlin in 1878 and granted independence to Romania, Serbia and Montenegro and a limited autonomy to Bulgaria.\n\nThe invention of a symbolic national identity became the concern of racial, ethnic or linguistic groups throughout Europe as they struggled to come to terms with the rise of mass politics, the decline of the traditional social elites, popular discrimination and xenophobia. Within the Habsburg empire the different peoples developed a more mass-based, violent and exclusive form of nationalism. This developed even among the Germans and Magyars, who actually benefited from the power-structure of the empire. On the European periphery, especially in Ireland and Norway, campaigns for national independence became more strident. In 1905, Norway won independence from Sweden, but attempts to grant Ireland the kind of autonomy enjoyed by Hungary foundered on the national divisions on the island between the Catholic and Protestant populations. The Polish attempts to win independence from Russia had previously proved to be unsuccessful, with Poland being the only country in Europe whose autonomy was gradually limited rather than expanded throughout the 19th century, as a punishment for the failed uprisings; in 1831 Poland lost its status as a formally independent state and was merged into Russia as a real union country and in 1867 she became nothing more than just another Russian province. Faced with internal and external resistance to assimilation, as well as increased xenophobic anti-Semitism, radical demands began to develop among the stateless Jewish population of eastern and central Europe for their own national home and refuge. In 1897, inspired by the Hungarian-born Jewish nationalist Theodor Herzl, the First Zionist Congress was held in Basle, and declared their national 'home' should be in Palestine. By the end of the period, the ideals of European nationalism had been exported worldwide and were now beginning to develop, and both compete and threaten the empires ruled by colonial European nation-states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11057645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11057645", "title": "Robert Wauchope (archaeologist)", "text": "Robert Wauchope (archaeologist)\n\nRobert Wauchope (December 10, 1909 – January 20, 1979) was an American archaeologist and anthropologist, whose academic research specialized in the prehistory and archaeology of Latin America, Mesoamerica, and the Southwestern United States.\n\nWauchope was born to George Armstrong Wauchope and Elizabeth Bostedo Wauchope in Columbia, South Carolina on December 10, 1909. His interest in archaeology developed early as an Eagle Scout, and upon graduating high school, he wrote Alfred V. Kidder and asked to join him on excavations at Pecos, New Mexico. Kidder accepted Robert’s request and invited him to be an assistant at the Forked Lightning Ruin site.\n\nRobert attended the First Pecos Conference in 1927 where he met H.S. and C.B. Cosgrove, who invited him to their 1928–1929 excavations at Stallings Island, Georgia. After leaving Stallings Island, he attended the University of South Carolina where he received a bachelor's degree in English in 1931.\n\nHe enrolled at Harvard University in 1931 with his interests focused on archaeology. During 1932, Wauchope accompanied Alfred V. Kidder during excavations at Uaxactun, Guatemala. In 1938, he graduated from Harvard with a Ph.D. in anthropology, and took a job at the University of Georgia teaching anthropology courses and Southeastern prehistory. Wauchope held his position for 18 months between 1939 and 1941. He is noted for being the first archaeology professor at the University of Georgia, though his career was predominantly at Tulane University at the Middle American Research Institute.\n\nThroughout his tenure at the University of Georgia, Wauchope directed the WPA archaeological survey of Georgia. He surveyed over 200 sites north of Macon, and excavated 23 sites in Macon, Savannah, Stallings Island, and at Etowah. Wauchope developed and ran an archaeology laboratory at the University of Georgia, in addition to setting up the states first detailed archaeological site file. He played a large part in developing the ceramic sequence for north Georgia during the two years he was there.\n\nIn 1940, Wauchope was hired as associate professor of anthropology and director of the Laboratory of Anthropology and Archaeology at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill. In 1943 Wauchope was assigned to the Office of Strategic Services in the Mediterranean for the duration of the war. \n\nWauchope is noted for his extensive work on house mounds in Uaxactun, Guatemala. The study of these sites is one of the most extensive of its kind, pertaining to household archaeology of the Maya area and modern Maya house. In 1947 he continued his work on his previous research from 1935-1936 at Zacualpa, in the Guatemalan highlands. 1947-1957 Wauchope taught a multidisciplinary Middle American research program with weekly seminars, working with other Latin American scholars at Tulane. During the 1950s Wauchope was asked to be general editor of the \"Handbook of Middle American Indians.\" The \"Handbook\" was assembled at Tulane and consisted of 16 volumes, the last four of which were guides to sources on Middle American (more currently called Mesoamerican) ethnohistory, edited by Howard F. Cline. It was published by the University of Texas press from 1964-1976 with Margaret Harrison as the editor to the handbook. Wauchope did not engage in any field work after his work in 1957 until 1974 when he returned to Guatemala to work on small sites near Asuncion Mita.\n\nWauchope is respected for his long and celebrated time with the Middle America Research Institute, as well as building a foundation and picking early staff for Tulane University. In 1967 Tulane had a single independent anthropology facility, no longer joint with the sociology department.\n\nWauchope is an uncle of underwater archaeologist George F. Bass.\n\nhttp://www.tulane.edu/~mari/directors.html\n\n"}
{"id": "45042480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45042480", "title": "Royal titles of Yoruba monarchs", "text": "Royal titles of Yoruba monarchs\n\nThis is a list of the royal titles of Yoruba monarchs. It is not in the order of seniority.\n\n"}
{"id": "52395694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52395694", "title": "Timeline of women in aviation", "text": "Timeline of women in aviation\n\nThis is a timeline of women in aviation which describes many of the firsts and achievements of women as pilots and other roles in aviation. Women who are part of this list have piloted vehicles, including hot-air balloons, gliders, airplanes, dirigibles and helicopters. Some women have been instrumental in support roles. Others have made a name for themselves as parachutists and other forms of flight-related activities. This list encompasses women's achievements from around the globe.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7813287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7813287", "title": "Timoléon C. Brutus", "text": "Timoléon C. Brutus\n\nTimoléon C. Brutus (1886–1971) was a Haitian politician and historian. He served as foreign minister of Haiti from 1946 to 1949. As a historian, Brutus wrote books about the leaders of the Haitian Revolution, Toussaint L'Ouverture and Jean-Jacques Dessalines. His most well-known works are \"Ranςon du Génie ou la Leςon de Toussaint Louverture\" (1945) and \"L'homme d'Airain\" (1946). His son, Edner Brutus, also became a prominent politician and historian.\n"}
{"id": "49374807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49374807", "title": "Tor Egil Førland", "text": "Tor Egil Førland\n\nTor Egil Førland (born 5 May 1959) is professor of history at the University of Oslo.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2004 Førland was Subdean of education at the Faculty of Humanities at the University of Oslo, responsible for implementing the Quality Reform at the faculty. Førland was Head of education and Deputy head of Department of Archaeology, Conservation and History (IAKH) during 2009–2012. Førland has been Head of Department since 2013.\n\nAs a historian, Førland has specialized in the radicalism of the 1960s and 1970s and in contemporary international history. He has published books and articles on the history of the EU, European integration, the Cold War and the 1968 protests.\n\nFørland has also contributed to the debate on objectivity and values in historiography, taking a stance against the postmodern relativization of truth. He has applied the philosopher Peter Railton’s concept of the “ideal explanatory text” to argue that the ideal of objectivity in historiography is attainable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44888127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44888127", "title": "Vojislav Korać", "text": "Vojislav Korać\n\nVojislav Korać (1924–2010) was a Yugoslav and Serbian historian on architecture, academic and professor. An ethnic Serb, he was born in Debelo Brdo in Udbina, Kingdom of Yugoslavia (now Croatia).\n\n"}
{"id": "2041748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2041748", "title": "Zelia Nuttall", "text": "Zelia Nuttall\n\nZelia Maria Magdalena Nuttall (September 6, 1857 – April 12, 1933) was an American archaeologist and anthropologist.\n\nNuttall was born in San Francisco in 1857 to Irish father Dr. Robert Kennedy Nuttall and Mexican-American mother Magdalena Parrott. She specialised in pre-Columbian Mesoamerican manuscripts and the pre-Aztec culture in Mexico. She traced the Mixtec codex now called the Codex Zouche-Nuttall and wrote the introduction to its first facsimile publication.\n\nShe was educated in France, Germany, and Italy, and at Bedford College, London. During Nuttall’s first trip to Mexico in 1884 with her family, she worked for the National Museum of Anthropology, and collected terracotta heads from San Juan Teotihuacan.(). This was the foundation of the publication which would lead her into prominence, the \"Terra Cotta Heads of Teotihuacan\" for the American Journal of Archaeology (1886).[] She was appointed Special Assistant of the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology at Harvard, and was named Honorary Professor of Archaeology at the National Museum of Anthropology in Mexico.\n\nShe was the basis for D.H. Lawrence's character Mrs. Norris in his novel The Plumed Serpent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34452", "title": "Zora Neale Hurston", "text": "Zora Neale Hurston\n\nZora Neale Hurston (January 7, 1891 – January 28, 1960) was an influential author of African-American literature and anthropologist, who portrayed racial struggles in the early 20th century American South, and published research on Haitian voodoo. Of Hurston's four novels and more than 50 published short stories, plays, and essays, her most popular is the 1937 novel \"Their Eyes Were Watching God\".\n\nHurston was born in Notasulga, Alabama, and moved to Eatonville, Florida, with her family in 1894. Eatonville would become the setting for many of her stories and is now the site of the Zora! Festival, held each year in Hurston's honor. In her early career, Hurston conducted anthropological and ethnographic research while attending Barnard College. While in New York she became a central figure of the Harlem Renaissance. Her short satires, drawing from the African-American experience and racial division, were published in anthologies such as \"\" and \"Fire!!\" After moving back to Florida, Hurston published her literary anthropology on African-American folklore in North Florida, \"Mules and Men\" (1935) and her first three novels: \"Jonah's Gourd Vine\" (1934); \"Their Eyes Were Watching God\" (1937); and \"Moses, Man of the Mountain\" (1939). Also published during this time was \"Tell My Horse: Voodoo and Life in Haiti and Jamaica\" (1938), documenting her research on rituals in Jamaica and Haiti.\n\nHurston's works touched on the African-American experience and her struggles as an African-American woman. Her novels went relatively unrecognized by the literary world for decades, but interest revived after author Alice Walker published \"In Search of Zora Neale Hurston\" in the March 1975 issue of \"Ms. Magazine\". Hurston's manuscript \"Every Tongue Got to Confess\" (2001), a collection of folktales gathered in the 1920s, was published posthumously after being discovered in the Smithsonian archives. Her nonfiction book \"\" was published posthumously in 2018.\n\nHurston was the sixth of eight children of John Hurston and Lucy Ann Hurston (\"née\" Potts). All of her four grandparents had been born into slavery. Her father was a Baptist preacher and sharecropper, who later became a carpenter, and her mother was a school teacher. She was born in Notasulga, Alabama, on January 7, 1891, where her father grew up and her grandfather was the preacher of a Baptist church.\n\nWhen she was three, her family moved to Eatonville, Florida. In 1887 it was one of the first all-black towns incorporated in the United States. Hurston said that Eatonville was \"home\" to her as she grew up there, and sometimes claimed it as her birthplace. Her father was elected as mayor of the town in 1897 and in 1902 became minister of its largest church, Macedonia Missionary Baptist.\n\nAs an adult, Hurston used Eatonville as a backdrop in her stories. It was a place where African Americans could live as they desired, independent of white society. In 1901, some northern schoolteachers visited Eatonville and gave Hurston a number of books that opened her mind to literature. She described it as a kind of \"birth\". Hurston spent the remainder of her childhood in Eatonville, and described the experience of growing up there in her 1928 essay, \"How It Feels To Be Colored Me\".\n\nIn 1904, Hurston's mother died. Her father remarried to Mattie Moge which was considered scandalous, as it was rumored that he had had relations with Moge before his first wife's death. Hurston's father and stepmother sent her to a Baptist boarding school in Jacksonville, Florida. They eventually stopped paying her tuition and she was dismissed. She later worked as a maid to the lead singer in a traveling Gilbert & Sullivan theatrical company.\n\nIn 1917, Hurston began attending Morgan College, the high school division of Morgan State University, a historically black college in Baltimore, Maryland. At this time, apparently to qualify for a free high-school education (as well, perhaps to reflect her literary birth), the 26-year-old Hurston began claiming 1901 as her year of birth. She graduated from the high school of Morgan State University in 1918.\n\nIn 1918, Hurston began her studies at Howard University, where she became one of the earliest initiates of Zeta Phi Beta sorority and co-founded \"The Hilltop\", the university's student newspaper. While there, she took courses in Spanish, English, Greek and public speaking and earned an associate degree in 1920. In 1921, she wrote a short story, \"John Redding Goes to Sea\", which qualified her to become a member of Alaine Locke's literary club, The Stylus. Hurston left Howard in 1924 and in 1925 was offered a scholarship by Barnard trustee Annie Nathan Meyer to Barnard College of Columbia University, where she was the college's sole black student. Hurston received her B.A. in anthropology in 1928, when she was 37. While she was at Barnard, she conducted ethnographic research with noted anthropologist Franz Boas of Columbia University. She also worked with Ruth Benedict as well as fellow anthropology student Margaret Mead. After graduating from Barnard, Hurston spent two years as a graduate student in anthropology at Columbia University. Living in Harlem in the 1920s, Hurston befriended the likes of Langston Hughes and Countee Cullen, among several others. Her apartment, according to some accounts, was a popular spot for social gatherings. Around this time, Hurston experienced a few early literary successes, including placing in short-story and playwriting contests in \"Opportunity\" magazine.\n\nIn 1927, Hurston married Herbert Sheen, a jazz musician and a former teacher at Howard who later became a physician. Their marriage ended in 1931. In 1935, Hurston was involved with Percy Punter, a graduate student at Columbia University, who would eventually inspire Teacake in \"Their Eyes Were Watching God\". In 1939, while Hurston was working for the WPA, she married Albert Price. The marriage ended after seven months. They divorced in 1943 and the following year Hurston married James Howell Pitts of Cleveland. That marriage, too, lasted less than a year. \nShe lived in a cottage in Eau Gallie, Florida, twice: once in 1929 and again in 1951. During the 1930s, Hurston was a resident of Westfield, New Jersey, where Langston Hughes was among her neighbors. In 1934 she established a school of dramatic arts \"based on pure Negro expression\" at Bethune-Cookman University (at the time, Bethune-Cookman College), a historically black college in Daytona Beach, Florida.\n\nIn later life, in addition to continuing her literary career, Hurston served on the faculty of North Carolina College for Negroes (now North Carolina Central University) in Durham, North Carolina.\n\nIn 1956 Hurston received the Bethune-Cookman College Award for Education and Human Relations in recognition of her achievements. The English Department at Bethune-Cookman College remains dedicated to preserving her cultural legacy.\n\nHurston traveled extensively in the Caribbean and the American South and immersed herself in local cultural practices to conduct her anthropological research. Based on her work in the South, sponsored from 1928 to 1932 by Charlotte Osgood Mason, a wealthy philanthropist, Hurston wrote \"Mules and Men\" in 1935. She was doing research in lumber camps and commented on the practice of white men in power taking black women as sexual concubines, including having them bear children. This later was referred to as \"paramour rights,\" based in the men's power under racial and related to practices during slavery times. The book also includes much folklore. She used this material as well in fictional treatment developed for her novels such as \"Jonah's Gourd Vine\" (1934).\n\nIn 1936 and 1937, Hurston traveled to Jamaica and Haiti for research, with support from the Guggenheim Foundation. She drew from this for her anthropological work, \"Tell My Horse\" (1938).\n\nIn 1938, Hurston worked for the Federal Writer's project (FWP). Hired for her experience as a writer and folklorist she gathered information to add to Florida's historical and cultural collection.\n\nFrom October 1947 to February 1948, she lived in Honduras, at the north coastal town of Puerto Cortés. She had some hopes of locating either Mayan ruins or vestiges of an as yet undiscovered civilization. While in Puerto Cortés, she wrote much of \"Seraph on the Suwanee\", set in Florida. Hurston expressed interest in the polyethnic nature of the population in the region (many, such as the Miskito Zambu and Garifuna, were of partial African ancestry and had developed creole cultures).\n\nDuring her last decade, Hurston worked as a freelance writer for magazines and newspapers. In the fall of 1952 she was contacted by Sam Nunn, editor of the \"Pittsburgh Courier,\" to go to Florida to cover the murder trial of Ruby McCollum. McCollum was charged with murdering a white doctor and politician, who McCollum said had forced her to have sex and bear his child. Hurston recalled what she had seen of white male sexual dominance in the lumber camps in North Florida, and discussed it with Nunn. They both thought the case might be about such \"paramour rights,\" and wanted to \"expose it to a national audience.\"\n\nUpon reaching Live Oak, Hurston was surprised not only by the gag order the judge in the trial placed on the defense, but by her inability to get residents in town to talk about the case; both blacks and whites were silent. She believed that might have been related to Dr. Adams' alleged involvement as well in Sam McCollum's gambling operation. Her articles were published by the newspaper during the trial. Ruby McCollum was convicted by an all-white, all-male jury, and sentenced to death. Hurston had a special assignment to write a serialized account, \"The Life Story of Ruby McCollum\", over three months in 1953 in the newspaper. Her part was ended abruptly when she and Nunn disagreed about her pay, and she left.\n\nUnable to pay independently to return for the appeal and second trial, she contacted journalist William Bradford Huie, with whom she had worked at \"The American Mercury\", to try to interest him in the case. He covered the appeal and second trial, and also developed material from a background investigation. Hurston shared her material with him from the first trial, but he acknowledged her only briefly in his book, \"\" (1956), which became a bestseller. Hurston celebrated that \"McCollum's testimony in her own defense marked the first time that a woman of African-American descent was allowed to testify as to the paternity of her child by a white man. Hurston firmly believed that Ruby McCollum's testimony sounded the death toll of 'paramour rights' in the Segregationist South.\"\n\nAmong other positions, Hurston later worked at the Pan American World Airways Technical Library at Patrick Air Force Base in 1957. She was fired for being \"too well-educated\" for her job.\n\nShe moved to Fort Pierce. Taking jobs where she could find them, she worked occasionally as a substitute teacher. At age 60, Hurston had to fight \"to make ends meet\" with the help of public assistance. At one point she worked as a maid on Miami Beach's Rivo Alto Island\n\nDuring a period of financial and medical difficulties, Hurston was forced to enter St. Lucie County Welfare Home, where she suffered a stroke. She died of hypertensive heart disease on January 28, 1960, and was buried at the Garden of Heavenly Rest in Fort Pierce, Florida. Her remains were in an unmarked grave until 1973. Novelist Alice Walker and fellow Hurston scholar Charlotte D. Hunt found an unmarked grave in the general area where Hurston had been buried and decided to mark it as hers. Walker had it marked with a gray marker stating ZORA NEALE HURSTON / \"A GENIUS OF THE SOUTH\" / NOVELIST FOLKLORIST / ANTHROPOLOGIST / 1901–1960. The line \"a genius of the south\" is from Jean Toomer's poem \"Georgia Dusk,\" which appears in his book \"Cane\". Hurston was actually born in 1891, not 1901.\n\nAfter Hurston died her papers were ordered to be burned. A law officer and friend, Patrick DuVal, passing by the house where she had lived, stopped and put out the fire, thus saving an invaluable collection of literary documents for posterity. The nucleus of this collection was given to the University of Florida libraries in 1961 by Mrs. Marjorie Silver, friend and neighbor of Hurston. Other materials were donated in 1970 and 1971 by Frances Grover, daughter of E. O. Grover, a Rollins College professor and long-time friend of Hurston's. In 1979 Stetson Kennedy of Jacksonville, who knew Hurston through his work with the Federal Writers Project, added additional papers. [(Zora Neale Hurston Papers, University of Florida Smathers Libraries, August 2008)]\n\nWhen Hurston arrived in New York City in 1925, the Harlem Renaissance was at its zenith, and she soon became one of the writers at its center. Shortly before she entered Barnard, Hurston's short story \"Spunk\" was selected for \"The New Negro\", a landmark anthology of fiction, poetry, and essays focusing on African and African-American art and literature. In 1926, a group of young black writers including Hurston, Langston Hughes, and Wallace Thurman, calling themselves the Niggerati, produced a literary magazine called \"Fire!!\" that featured many of the young artists and writers of the Harlem Renaissance.\n\nIn 1927 Hurston interviewed Cudjoe Kazzola Lewis, of Africatown, Alabama, who was the last known survivor of the Transatlantic slave trade. The next year she published the article \"Cudjoe's Own Story of the Last African Slaver\" (1928). According to her biographer Robert E. Hemenway, this piece largely plagiarized the work of Emma Roche, although Hurston added information about daily life in Lewis' home village of Bantè. In 1928 Hurston returned with additional resources; she conducted more interviews, took photographs, and recorded the only known film footage of an African who had been trafficked to the United States through the slave trade. Based on this material, she wrote a manuscript, \"\", which Hemenway described as \"a highly dramatic, semifictionalized narrative intended for the popular reader.\" After this round of interviews, Hurston's literary patron, philanthropist Charlotte Osgood Mason, learned of Lewis and began to send him money for his support. Lewis was also interviewed by journalists for local and national publications. Hurston's manuscript \"Barracoon\" was eventually published posthumously on May 8, 2018. \"Barracoon\", or barracks in Spanish, is where captured Africans were temporarily imprisoned before being shipped abroad.\n\nIn 1929, Hurston moved to Eau Gallie, Florida where she wrote \"Mules and Men\", which was published in 1935.\n\nBy the mid-1930s, Hurston had published several short stories and the critically acclaimed \"Mules and Men\" (1935), a groundbreaking work of \"literary anthropology\" documenting African-American folklore from timber camps in North Florida. In 1930, she collaborated with Langston Hughes on \"Mule Bone: A Comedy of Negro Life in Three Acts\", a play that they never staged. It was published posthumously and staged on Broadway in 1991.\n\nHurston translated her anthropological work into the performing arts, and her folk revue, \"The Great Day,\" which featured authentic African song and dance, premiered at the John Golden Theatre in New York in January 1932. There was only one performance of \"The Great Day\", despite the positive reviews. The Broadway debut left Hurston in $600 worth of debt. No producers wanted to move forward with a full run of the show.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Zora Neale Hurston produced two other musical revues, \"From Sun to Sun,\" which was a revised adaptation of \"The Great Day,\" and \"Singing Steel.\" Hurston had a strong belief that folk should be dramatized.\n\nHurston's first three novels were published in the 1930s: \"Jonah's Gourd Vine\" (1934); \"Their Eyes Were Watching God\" (1937), written during her fieldwork in Haiti and considered her masterwork; and \"Moses, Man of the Mountain\" (1939).\n\nIn 1937, Hurston was awarded a prestigious Guggenheim Fellowship to conduct ethnographic research in Jamaica and Haiti. \"Tell My Horse\" (1938) documents her account of her fieldwork studying spiritual and cultural rituals in Jamaica and vodoun in Haiti.\n\nIn the 1940s, Hurston's work was published in such periodicals as \"The American Mercury\" and \"The Saturday Evening Post\". Her last published novel, \"Seraph on the Suwanee\", notable principally for its focus on white characters, was published in 1948. It explores images of \"white trash\" women. Jackson (2000) argues that Hurston's meditation on abjection, waste, and the construction of class and gender identities among poor whites reflects the eugenics discourses of the 1920s.\nIn 1952, Hurston was assigned by the \"Pittsburgh Courier\" to cover the small-town murder trial of Ruby McCollum, the prosperous black wife of the local bolita racketeer, who had killed a racist white doctor. She also contributed to \"Ruby McCollum: Woman in the Suwannee Jail\" (1956), a book by journalist and civil rights advocate William Bradford Huie.\n\nHurston's manuscript \"Every Tongue Got to Confess\" (2001), a collection of folktales gathered in the 1920s, was published posthumously after being discovered in the Smithsonian archives.\n\nIn 2008, The Library of America selected excerpts from \"Ruby McCollum: Woman in the Suwannee Jail\" (1956), to which Hurston had contributed, for inclusion in its two-century retrospective of American true crime writing.\n\nHurston's nonfiction book \"\" was published in 2018. A barracoon is a type of barracks where slaves were imprisoned before being taken overseas.\n\nHurston's work slid into obscurity for decades, for both cultural and political reasons.\n\nMany readers objected to the representation of African-American dialect in Hurston's novels, given the racially charged history of dialect fiction in American literature. Her stylistic choices in dialogue were influenced by her academic experiences. Thinking like a folklorist, Hurston strove to represent speech patterns of the period which she documented through ethnographic research. For example, a character in \"Jonah's Gourd Vine\" expresses herself like this:\n\nSeveral of Hurston's literary contemporaries criticized her use of dialect as a caricature of African-American culture rooted in a racist tradition. These writers associated with the Harlem Renaissance were critical of Hurston's later work, which in their view did not further the movement. One criticism came from Richard Wright in his review of \"Their Eyes Were Watching God\":\n\nMore recently, many critics have praised Hurston's skillful use of idiomatic speech.\n\nDuring the 1930s and 1940s when her work was published, the pre-eminent African-American author was Richard Wright. Unlike Hurston, Wright wrote in explicitly political terms, as someone who had become disenchanted with communism, using the struggle of African Americans for respect and economic advancement as both the setting and the motivation for his work. Other popular African-American authors of the time, such as Ralph Ellison, dealt with the same concerns as Wright.\n\nHurston, who was a conservative, was on the other side of the disputes over the promise left-wing politics held for African-Americans. In 1951, for example, Hurston argued that New Deal economic support created a harmful dependency by African Americans on the government, and that this dependency ceded too much power to politicians.\n\nDespite increasing difficulties, Hurston maintained her independence and a determined optimism. She wrote in a 1957 letter: \n\nBut … I have made phenomenal growth as a creative artist. … I am not materialistic… If I do happen to die without money, somebody will bury me, though I do not wish it to be that way.\n\n\nJohn McWhorter has called Hurston \"America's favorite black conservative\" while David T. Beito and Linda Royster Beito have argued that she can better be characterized as a libertarian. She was a Republican who was generally sympathetic to the foreign policy non-interventionism of the Old Right and a fan of Booker T. Washington's self-help politics. She disagreed with the philosophies (including Communism and the New Deal) supported by many of her colleagues in the Harlem Renaissance, such as Langston Hughes, who was in the 1930s a supporter of the Soviet Union and praised it in several of his poems. Despite much common ground with the Old Right in domestic and foreign policy, Hurston was not a social conservative. Her writings show an affinity for feminist individualism. In this respect, her views were similar to two libertarian novelists who were her contemporaries: Rose Wilder Lane and Isabel Paterson. Although her personal quotes show a disbelief of religion, Hurston did not negate spiritual matters as evidenced from her 1942 autobiography \"Dust Tracks on a Road\".\n\nPrayer seems to me a cry of weakness, and an attempt to avoid, by trickery, the rules of the game as laid down. I do not choose to admit weakness. I accept the challenge of responsibility. Life, as it is, does not frighten me, since I have made my peace with the universe as I find it, and bow to its laws. The ever-sleepless sea in its bed, crying out \"how long?\" to Time; million-formed and never motionless flame; the contemplation of these two aspects alone, affords me sufficient food for ten spans of my expected lifetime. It seems to me that organized creeds are collections of words around a wish. I feel no need for such. However, I would not, by word or deed, attempt to deprive another of the consolation it affords. It is simply not for me. Somebody else may have my rapturous glance at the archangels. The springing of the yellow line of morning out of the misty deep of dawn, is glory enough for me. I know that nothing is destructible; things merely change forms. When the consciousness we know as life ceases, I know that I shall still be part and parcel of the world. I was a part before the sun rolled into shape and burst forth in the glory of change. I was, when the earth was hurled out from its fiery rim. I shall return with the earth to Father Sun, and still exist in substance when the sun has lost its fire, and disintegrated into infinity to perhaps become a part of the whirling rubble of space. Why fear? The stuff of my being is matter, ever changing, ever moving, but never lost; so what need of denominations and creeds to deny myself the comfort of all my fellow men? The wide belt of the universe has no need for finger-rings. I am one with the infinite and need no other assurance.\nIn 1952, Hurston supported the presidential campaign of Senator Robert A. Taft. Like Taft, Hurston was against Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal policies. She also shared his opposition to Roosevelt and Truman's interventionist foreign policy. In the original draft of her autobiography, \"Dust Tracks on a Road\", Hurston compared the United States government to a \"fence\" in stolen goods and to a Mafia-like protection racket. Hurston thought it ironic that the same \"people who claim that it is a noble thing to die for freedom and democracy ... wax frothy if anyone points out the inconsistency of their morals ... We, too, consider machine gun bullets good laxatives for heathens who get constipated with toxic ideas about a country of their own.\" She was scathing about those who sought \"freedoms\" for those abroad but denied it to people in their home countries: Roosevelt \"can call names across an ocean\" for his Four Freedoms, but he did not have \"the courage to speak even softly at home.\" When Truman dropped the atomic bombs on Japan she called him \"the Butcher of Asia.\"\n\nHurston opposed the Supreme Court ruling in the \"Brown v. Board of Education\" case of 1954. She felt that if separate schools were truly equal (and she believed that they were rapidly becoming so), educating black students in physical proximity to white students would not result in better education. In addition, she worried about the demise of black schools and black teachers as a way to pass on cultural tradition to future generations of African Americans. She voiced this opposition in a letter, \"Court Order Can't Make the Races Mix\", that was published in the \"Orlando Sentinel\" in August 1955. Hurston had not reversed her long-time opposition to segregation. Rather, she feared that the Court's ruling could become a precedent for an all-powerful federal government to undermine individual liberty on a broad range of issues in the future. Hurston also opposed preferential treatment for African-Americans, saying:\n\nIf I say a whole system must be upset for me to win, I am saying that I cannot sit in the game, and that safer rules must be made to give me a chance. I repudiate that. If others are in there, deal me a hand and let me see what I can make of it, even though I know some in there are dealing from the bottom and cheating like hell in other ways.\n\nDarwin Turner, an English professor and specialist in African-American literature, faulted Hurston in 1971 for opposing integration and for opposing programs to guarantee blacks the right to work. Even though criticized, Hurston appeared to oppose integration based on pride and her sense of independence. She would not \"bow low before the white man,\" and claimed \"adequate Negro schools\" already existed in 1955.\n\nOther authors criticized Hurston for her sensationalist representation of voodoo. In \"The Crisis\" magazine in 1943, Harold Preece criticized Hurston for her perpetuation of \"Negro primitivism\" in order to advance her own literary career. The \"Journal of Negro History\" complained that her work on voodoo was an indictment of African-American ignorance and superstition.\n\nJeffrey Anderson states that Hurston's research methods were questionable, and that she fabricated material for her works on voodoo. He observed that she admitted inventing dialogue for her book \"Mules and Men\" in a letter to Ruth Benedict and described fabricating the \"Mules and Men\" story of rival voodoo doctors as a child in her later autobiography. Anderson believes that many of Hurston's other claims in her voodoo writings are dubious as well.\n\nSeveral authors have contended that Hurston engaged in significant plagiarism in at least three works, claiming that article \"Cudjo's own story of the last African slaver\" was only 25% original, the rest being plagiarized, and that she also plagiarized much of her work on voodoo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
