{"id": "20926220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20926220", "title": "1st meridian west", "text": "1st meridian west\n\nThe meridian 1° west of Greenwich is a line of longitude that extends from the North Pole across the Arctic Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, Europe, Africa, the Southern Ocean, and Antarctica to the South Pole.\n\nThe 1st meridian west forms a great circle with the 179th meridian east.\n\nStarting at the North Pole and heading south to the South Pole, the 1st meridian west passes through:\n\n"}
{"id": "19571081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19571081", "title": "78th parallel north", "text": "78th parallel north\n\nThe 78th parallel north is a circle of latitude that is 78 degrees north of the Earth's equatorial plane, in the Arctic. It crosses the Atlantic Ocean, Europe, Asia, the Arctic Ocean and North America. It is the southernmost integral parallel north that does not pass through any continental mainland (being slightly to the north of Cape Chelyuskin).\n\nStarting at the Prime Meridian and heading eastwards, the parallel 78° north passes through:\n\n"}
{"id": "4442405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4442405", "title": "Boyana", "text": "Boyana\n\nBoyana () is a neighbourhood of the Bulgarian capital of Sofia, part of Vitosha municipality and situated 8 km south of the city centre, in the outskirts of Vitosha. Boyana is one of the most expensive parts of Sofia to live in. The residents are primarily wealthy business people, government officials and other prominent members of Bulgarian society. Formerly an outlying village, it was incorporated into Sofia in 1961.\n\nBoyana's name was first mentioned in the 11th-century \"Vision of Daniel\" in the excerpt . The name is most likely derived from the personal name Boyan. An alternative suggested etymology from Vulgar Latin or Balkan Latin \"*boiana\" (\"herdsman's [river]), from Latin \"boviana\" (\"herdsman's\") is considered less likely.\n\nIn connection with the 1040 uprising of Peter Delyan and the Pecheneg invasion of 1048, an important stronghold under the name of \"Boyan\" (\"Боян, Βοιάνος\") is mentioned in the area, where a garrison led by a voivod called Botko was stationed.\n\nThe famous Boyana Church, part of the UNESCO World Heritage List, is located in the neighbourhood. Other landmarks include the Boyana Waterfall, the Kopitoto area and the National Historical Museum in the palatial former Boyana Residence, designed by Alexander Georgiev Barov. The Nu Boyana Film studios and the Big Brother Bulgaria house are also located in Boyana.\n\n"}
{"id": "23798040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23798040", "title": "Business improvement district", "text": "Business improvement district\n\nA business improvement district (BID) is a defined area within which businesses are required to pay an additional tax (or levy) in order to fund projects within the district's boundaries. The BID is often funded primarily through the levy but can also draw on other public and private funding streams. BIDs may go by other names, such as business improvement area (BIA), business revitalization zone (BRZ), community improvement district (CID), special services area (SSA), or special improvement district (SID). These districts typically fund services which are perceived by some businesses as being inadequately performed by government with its existing tax revenues, such as cleaning streets, providing security, making capital improvements, construction of pedestrian and streetscape enhancements, and marketing the area. The services provided by BIDs are supplemental to those already provided by the municipality. The revenue derives from a tax assessment on commercial property owners, and in some cases, residential property owners. \n\nThe first BID was the Bloor West Village Business Improvement Area, established in Toronto in 1970 as an initiative by local private business. The first BID in the United States was the Downtown Development District in New Orleans, established in 1974. There are now 1,200 across the country. Other countries with BIDs include Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Jamaica, Serbia, Albania, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe process for creating a BID varies from one jurisdiction to another. In the United States, it generally involves three steps. First, some number of businesses in the area petition the local government to create the BID. Second, the local government determines that a majority of businesses want the BID. Third, the local government enacts legislation creating the BID. Prior to this occurring, state legislatures need to grant local units the authority to create BIDs.\n\nBIDs in England and Wales are funded by a levy on the occupiers rather than the owners of the properties within the area. If voted in by local businesses, the BID levy is an extension to existing non-domestic business-rates. \"In England and Wales, for a BID to go ahead the ballot must be won on two counts: straight majority and majority of rateable value. In Scotland for a ballot to be successful it must meet four criteria, a minimum turnout of 25% by the number of eligible persons (the headcount) and by rateable value and a majority of those that vote by number of ballots and by rateable value must vote in favour. This ensures that the interests of large and small businesses are protected.\"\n\nThe operating budgets of BIDs range from a few thousand dollars to tens of millions of dollars.\n\nA BID may be operated by a nonprofit organization or by a quasi-governmental entity. The governance of a BID is the responsibility of a board composed of some combination of property owners, businesses, and government officials. The management of a BID is the job of a paid administrator, usually occupying the position of an executive director of a management company.\n\nThere are nearly 1,000 BIDs in the United States. New York City has 74 BIDs, the most of any city; in NYC, BIDs invest $134 million annually in neighborhoods throughout the five boroughs . BIDs exist in almost every one of the top 50 largest cities in the United States, including Los Angeles, Chicago, Houston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, San Francisco, Seattle, and Washington, DC. Minneapolis and Boston have been the last of the top 20 largest regions to adopt a business improvement district. The State of Wisconsin has adopted the most for smaller towns, with about 90 in the state, 25 of those being in Milwaukee and the rest throughout the state.\n\nIn Canada, Toronto has 81 BIAs within its city limit. Montreal – where BIAs are called Sociétés de Développement Commerciale (SDC) – has 17. The City of Winnipeg has 16 \"Business Improvement Zones,\" the first of which were formed in 1987, with the amendment of The City of Winnipeg Act. In the province of Alberta, they are termed \"business revitalization zones\". There are nine zones in the city of Calgary and 10 in Edmonton. Regina, Saskatchewan has two Business Improvement Districts: Regina Downtown (BID) and The Warehouse District. Saskatoon, Saskatchewan has 4 Business Improvement Districts: The Broadway BID, The Downtown Partnership, The Sutherland BID and The Riversdale BID. Some work has been made on creating a 5th BID in Saskatoon for the area of 33rd Street. It is estimated that there are over 400 BIDs in Canada but no count has been made. There are 8 business improvement districts in the Halifax Regional Municipality. Halifax Regional Municipality has passed by laws in 2012 regarding the formation and conduct of these BIDs.\nThe 8 BIDS are: Downtown Halifax Business Commission, Downtown Dartmouth Business Commission, Spring Garden Area Business Association, North End Business Association, Quinpool Mainstreet and District Association Ltd. Sackville Business Association, Spryfield Business Association, Main Street Dartmouth Business Association.\n\nBIDs have also become a powerful lobby group, lobbying government for improvements such as new sidewalks, trees, park benches and other restorations. BIDs can also lobby different levels of government for a complete facelift on their area if they feel it is necessary to improve business. The Rideau Street BIA in Ottawa has lobbied the city for years to give the entire street a face-lift because of its \"run down\" look.\n\nwww.britishbids.info is the industry body focused entirely on Business Improvement Districts. \nThe organisation offers advice and services on BID development, management and renewal along with a range of training services and the Certificate in BID Management.\n\nBritish BIDs conducts an annual Nationwide BID Survey. 2017 saw the publication of the 11th of these. The survey covers the fundamentals of a BID – number of businesses, types of businesses, levy rate and so on. It also asks questions about project delivery – what various BID's are delivering and how it works with other key strategic partners amongst other things. The survey provides the industry a real insight to the position at present.\n\nBritish BIDs also produces the Industry Criteria and Guidance for developing and renewing BIDs alongside supporting organisations the ATCM, Revo, ACS, BRC, intu and BPF.\n\nBritish BIDs also administers the DCLG BID Loan Fund which supports developing BIDs.\n\nIn February 2017, Professor Chris Turner was appointed Chief Executive of British BIDs.\n\nBritish BIDs have a Comprehensive renewal support package called Ballot Buddy which gives absolute confidence that the regs are adhered to and not at risk of a challenge.\n\nIn England and Wales, BIDs were introduced through legislation (the Local Government Act 2003) and subsequent regulations in 2004. The Circle Initiative, a five-year scheme funded by the London Development Agency, set up the first pilot BIDs, five in London, all of which had successful ballots by March 2006. Association of Town Centre Management-coordinated pilot 'talking shops' in 22 locations in England and Wales corresponded with the development of BIDs' regulations. As of October 2007 there were 36 proposed or operational BIDs across Greater London. By late 2014, there were over 180 BIDs in operation in the United Kingdom. By February 2017, there were 270 BIDs in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe New West End Company is the management and promotional company for Bond Street, Oxford Street and Regent Street.\nAs one of the largest Business Improvement Districts (BID) in Europe, New West End Company brings together the commercial interests of over 600 retailers, property owners and West End businesses working closely with the Mayor of London, Transport for London, Westminster City Council, the Metropolitan Police and local neighbours in a collective vision to drive forward the nations retail heartland.\n\nBetter Bankside was the third BID to be established in the UK, the second in London and the first south of the river. It was founded in 2005, and underwent a successful re-ballot in 2010 with 82% of businesses in favour. The Better Bankside BID was set up and is managed by The means, a regeneration consultancy company.\n\nIn July 2015, the Nottingham BID was successfully renewed by Central Management Solutions, a specialist management company for urban centres. This was particularly notable due to the fact that the BID merged the former leisure BID with the larger but, nonetheless, younger retail BID. The merger has led to combined services and aligned city promotions to consumers. \n\nIn July 2015 the South Birmingham 'Lifford Bid' (Kings Norton, Cotteridge, Stirchley and Bournville) was rejected, with the Yes vote falling short with 45% of the vote.\nBusiness Improvement Districts Scotland (http://www.bids-scotland.com/) is the national organisation and voice for BIDs in Scotland. BIDS is responsible for delivering the Scottish Governments BIDs programme across Scotland, providing central support to developing BIDs, promoting and encouraging the development of BIDs across the country, whilst also working with operational BIDs to assist them in delivering for their local communities and contributing to sustainable inclusive economic growth. \n\nThe Scottish Government provides a grant to local groups of up to £20,000 to help with the development of the BID. The legislation in Scotland (The Planning etc. (Scotland) Act 2006) is different from the England and Wales legislation in that it allows property owners as well as occupiers to be included in a BID. There are also differences in the timescales, ballot criteria (in Scotland for a ballot to be successful it must meet four criteria, a minimum turnout of 25% by the number of eligible persons (the headcount) and by rateable value and a majority of those that vote by number of ballots and by rateable value must vote in favour), reballot and the legislative requirements of the BID Proposer. \n\nThe intention of the Scottish legislation is that BIDs are not restricted to towns and city centres to allow different and innovative BIDs to be developed across the country. The consultation of 2003 proposed that the BIDs model could be used in business parks, tourism and visitor areas, rural areas, agriculture and single business sectors. The legislation, and subsequent regulations were passed by the Scottish Parliament in 2006 and 2007 respectively. \n\nIn March 2006, the Scottish Government announced funding for six pilot BIDs in Scotland, Bathgate (town centre), Clackmannanshire (business parks), Edinburgh (city centre), Falkirk (town centre), Glasgow (city centre) and Inverness (city centre). There are currently thirty seven operational BIDs in Scotland with a further twenty four in development. The thirty seven operational BIDs include thirty one town and city centre BIDs and three business park BIDs. \n\nIn March 2014 the first tourism BID (TBID) was delivered in Loch Ness and Inverness (http://www.uniqueness.co.uk/)with others under discussion. The first themed BID in Scotland was delivered in December 2013, the Sauchiehall Street Evening Economy BID. In 2016 the worlds first Food and Drink BID was delivered in East Lothian (https://www.scotlandsfooddrinkcounty.com/) with the levy based on the number of full time employess, also a first. \n\nThe development and interest in the BIDs model in Scotland continues to grow and the flexibility of the legislation and the model is now being recognised with the development of the Borders Railway BIDs Corridor and four Canal BIDs led by Scottish Waterways Trust. IN 2017 BIDs Scotland published The National Report on BIDs in Scotland (https://www.bids-scotland.com/about-us/the-national-report-on-bids-in-scotland-2017) which covers the types of BIDs, number of businesses, levels of employment in BIDs in Scotland and the contribution they make to sustainable and inclusive economic growth. The opportunity for more innovative BIDs is under discussion. \n\nSix of the sixteen German Bundeslander (Federal States) introduced the requisite legal framework to create BIDs: Hamburg, Bremen, Hessen, North Rhine-Westphalia, Saarland and Schleswig-Holstein. BID projects in implementation exist only in a few German cities, yet – e.g. in Flensburg, Hamburg and Giessen.\n\nWhilst BIDs have been heralded for improving the trading environment, BIDs have also received noteworthy criticism.\n\nBIDs have been accused of being by their very nature undemocratic, and that they concentrate power in a geographic area into the hands of the few. Small businesses who fall below the BID levy threshold, although not liable to pay the BID levy, are often priced out of an area because BIDs tend to increase rental values. Larger businesses are more able to absorb these rent increases, particularly the multiple stores.\n\nBIDs have also been criticized in the past by anti-poverty groups for being too harsh on the homeless and poor who may congregate around businesses. BIDs have also been known to be opposed to street vendors such as hot dog vendors and chip wagons. In London, street traders who sold small items to tourists were barred from Oxford Street in London.\n\nPresident of Civic Voice, Griff Rhys Jones criticised the creation of a BID in central London neighbourhood saying that is undemocratic: \"Neither the people who live there, nor the many intriguing small shops and businesses, have been allowed to vote or have even been consulted.\". \"I am wary of this initiative because of what may become unintended consequences (or indeed intended consequences) that help one sort of business (the property letting business) but will cause problems to smaller businesses and the large and wholly integrated residential population of the district\". He also criticised some of the methods to oppose the BID.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15196196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15196196", "title": "Chauncy Harris", "text": "Chauncy Harris\n\nChauncy Dennison Harris (1914 - December 26, 2003) was a pioneer of modern geography. His seminal works in the field of American urban geography (\"The Nature of Cities\" and \"A Functional Classification of Cities in the United States\") along with his work on the Soviet Union during and after the Cold War era established him as one of the world's foremost urban geographers. He also made significant contributions to the geographical study of ethnicity, specifically with respect to non-Russian minorities living within the Soviet Union. Harris traveled regularly to the Soviet Union and played a key role in establishing a healthy dialog between Soviet and American scholars.\n\nHarris was born in 1914 in Logan, Utah. The son of Academian Franklin S. Harris, he showed an early interest in Geography, declaring to his family at the end of second grade that he was going to become a geographer. He graduated from Brigham Young High School in Provo in 1930. He received a B.A. from Brigham Young University (BYU) in 1933. The valedictorian of his class, Harris became the first Rhodes Scholar from BYU. The scholarship took him to Oxford where he completed a second B.A. as well as a Master's Degree. He also received an M.A. from the London School of Economics before returning to the U.S. He completed his Ph.D. at the University of Chicago in 1940. His dissertation was entitled, \"Salt Lake City - a Regional Capital in 1940.\"\n\nAfter brief stints at Indiana University and the University of Nebraska, Harris was appointed Assistant Professor of Geography at the University of Chicago in 1943. Around this same time he was called into military service with the U.S. Department of State, Office of the Geographer. In Washington he became intrigued by the mystery surrounding the Soviet Union. He started studying Russian and exploring the available cartographic and statistical information about the country. He published his first two works on the Soviet Union in 1945. His early work in this area left him well prepared in the late 1950s when the Soviet Union began opening up to foreigners. By the time of his first visit, he was already a well established and respected expert in the field. Over the course of his career, he made 14 trips to the Soviet Union and played an important role in fostering and promoting collaboration between American and Russian geographers.\n\nIn addition to his work on the Soviet Union, Harris made several important contributions to the field of American Urban Geography. In particular, in 1945 he wrote \"The Nature of Cities\" with Edward Ullman. The paper, published in the \"Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science\", described the Multiple nuclei model of urban development, which had prophetic relevance for understanding American cities in the later 20th century. This model gives a suggestion as to the possible land use within a city. It is an alternative model to the Concentric zone model and the Sector model.\n\nDuring his professional career Harris held a number of important and prestigious positions including dean of the Division of the Social Sciences at the University of Chicago (1954-1960). He served on the University of Chicago faculty from 1943 to 1984 and then continued as the Samuel N. Harper Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus in Geography until his death in 2003.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "690383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690383", "title": "Counties of Hungary", "text": "Counties of Hungary\n\nHungary is subdivided administratively into 19 counties (\"megyék\", singular: \"megye\") and the capital city (\"főváros\") Budapest. The counties are further subdivided into 174 districts (\"járások\", singular: \"járás\"). The capital Budapest is subdivided into 23 districts (\"kerületek\", singular: \"kerület\").\n\nThere are 23 towns with county's rights (\"megyei jogú városok\", singular: \"megyei jogú város\"), sometimes called urban counties. The local authorities of these towns have extended powers but they are not independent territorial units.\n\nThere are five towns with county's rights in addition to the county seats:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5326076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5326076", "title": "Dobrzyń Land", "text": "Dobrzyń Land\n\nDobrzyń Land () is a historic region, with the capital in the town of Dobrzyń nad Wisłą, in central-northern Poland, within the Greater Poland, between Mazovia and Prussia. It lies northeast of the Vistula River, south of the Drwęca, and west of the Skrwa. The territory approximately corresponds with the present-day powiats of Lipno, Rypin, and half of Golub-Dobrzyń within the Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, although it encompasses parts of other counties as well. Totally, it has about 3,000 km and 200,000 inhabitants.\n\nThose areas have been a part of Piast state probably since the duke Mieszko I of Poland (960–992). Upon the death of his descendant Duke Bolesław III Wrymouth in 1138, they were allocated to the newly established Duchy of Masovia. In his Prussian Crusade, Duke Konrad I of Masovia in 1228 established the Order of Dobrzyń of German knights (\"fratribus militiae Christi in Prussia\"), whom he vested with the Dobrzyń estates. Soon after however, this order was absorbed by the Teutonic Knights, who had established the Order's State in the adjacent Chełmno Land. During the whole second half of 13th century it belonged to Kuyavian Piasts, the new branch of Mazovian dynasty. Finally, along with their other states, it became a part of resurrected Kingdom of Poland.\n\nDuring the Polish–Teutonic War of 1326–1332, the forces of the Order's State occupied Dobrzyń Land, which however was relinquished to the Kingdom of Poland in the 1343 Treaty of Kalisz. The Knights temporarily regained control in the Polish–Lithuanian–Teutonic War of 1409–1411, but after their defeat at the Battle of Grunwald had to return it again according to the Peace of Thorn. It was incorporated into the Inowrocław Voivodeship of the Polish Crown and the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. Nevertheless, it has been still in the Mazovian Diocese of Płock (and not in the Greater Polish Diocese of Włocławek).\n\nWhile the western part of the voivodeship had already been annexed by Prussia in the course of the First Partition of Poland in 1772, Dobrzyń Land on the eastern banks of the Vistula was incorporated into South Prussia during the Second Partition in 1793. It was administered with New East Prussia from 1795 onwards, until in 1807 it became part of the Napoleonic Duchy of Warsaw according to the Treaties of Tilsit. In 1815 however, it was attached to Congress Poland under the Russian Empire.\n\nDobrzyń Land after World War I fell from Russia to the re-established independent Second Polish Republic, it was occupied by Nazi Germany in World War II, whereafter it was finally restored to Poland.\n\nThe region has numerous lakes (like adjacent Prussia or Greater Poland) and descendants of yeomanry (\"drobna szlachta\", similar as Mazovia). Cities of Toruń and Włocławek, as well as towns of Ciechocinek and Sierpc, lie just besides its border. Its oldest officially crowned sanctuary of Our Lady is Skępe; another is Obory. Ecclesiastically, it is divided between the dioceses of Włocławek and Płock. After 1793, it has been part of administrative units with the capital in Płock and Warsaw; since 1938 it belonged to Toruń and Włocławek. Dialectologically, it is usually adjoined to Chełmno Land. Therefore, it is considered as the transitory subregion between three big and different provinces: Greater Poland, Mazovia and Prussia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3111575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3111575", "title": "Drainage density", "text": "Drainage density\n\nDrainage density is the total length of all the streams and rivers in a drainage basin divided by the total area of the drainage basin. It is a measure of how well or how poorly a watershed is drained by stream channels. It is equal to the reciprocal of the constant of channel maintenance and equal to the reciprocal of two times the length of overland flow.\n\nDrainage density depends upon both climate and physical characteristics of the drainage basin. Soil permeability (infiltration difficulty) and underlying rock type affect the runoff in a watershed; impermeable ground or exposed bedrock will lead to an increase in surface water runoff and therefore to more frequent streams. Rugged regions or those with high relief will also have a higher drainage density than other drainage basins if the other characteristics of the basin are the same.\n\nDrainage density can affect the shape of a river's hydrograph during a rain storm. Rivers that have a high drainage density will often have a more 'flashy' hydrograph with a steep falling limb. High densities can also indicate a greater flood risk.\n\nHigh drainage densities also mean a high bifurcation ratio.\n\n"}
{"id": "18918494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18918494", "title": "Dəhrəv", "text": "Dəhrəv\n\nDəhrəv (also, Dagrav, Dagrov, Dahrav, and Lusadzor), , is a village in the Khojali Rayon of Azerbaijan. Since the Nagorno-Karabakh war the town has been administered by the \"de facto\" Republic of Artsakh as part of Askeran Province.\n"}
{"id": "4279010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4279010", "title": "Eucla Basin", "text": "Eucla Basin\n\nThe Eucla Basin is an artesian depression located in Western Australia and South Australia. The onshore-offshore depression covers approximately 1,141,000 km² and slopes southward to an open bay known as the Great Australian Bight.\n\nIt extends more than 500 km offshore and about 350 km inland from the coastline. The Eucla Basin is a Cenozoic basin consisting mostly of carbonate sediments and sedimentary rocks. The basin contains a sandstone aquifer at its base (confined), and an unconfined limestone aquifer.\n\nThe surface area of the basin (and Nullarbor Plain) consists mostly of grazing and rangeland, but nickel and gold are mined at the western end. Very few people live in this part of the country, with most of the region having fewer than one inhabitant per km². In normal years, the area receives less than 250 mm of precipitation. Due to a shortage of regional seals and source rocks, the basin has poor petroleum prospects, but it is forming as a major zircon producing area.\n\nThe Eucla Basin is one of the distinct physiographic provinces of the larger West Australian Shield. It includes the smaller Eyre Coastal Plain and Eucla Shelf physiographic sections.\n\nThe physiographic units within the basin are:\n\n"}
{"id": "160353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160353", "title": "First World", "text": "First World\n\nThe concept of First World originated during the Cold War and included countries that were generally aligned with NATO and opposed to the Soviet Union during the Cold War. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, the definition has instead largely shifted to any country with little political risk and a well functioning democracy, universal health care, rule of law, capitalist economy, economic stability and high standard of living. Various ways in which modern First World countries are often determined include GDP, GNP, literacy rates, life expectancy, and the Human Development Index. In common usage, as per Merriam-Webster, \"first world\" now typically refers to \"the highly developed industrialized nations often considered the westernized countries of the world\".\n\nAfter World War II, the world split into two large geopolitical blocs, separating into spheres of communism and capitalism. This led to the Cold War, during which the term \"First World\" was often used because of its political, social, and economic relevance. The term itself was first introduced in the late 1940s by the United Nations. Today, the First World is slightly outdated and has no official definition, however, it is generally thought of as the capitalist, industrial, wealthy and developed countries. This definition includes Australia & New Zealand, the developed countries of Asia (South Korea, Taiwan, Japan, Singapore) and the wealthy countries of North America and Europe, particularly Western Europe. In contemporary society, the First World is viewed as countries that have the most advanced economies, the greatest influence, the highest standards of living, and the greatest technology. After the Cold War, these countries of the First World included member states of NATO, U.S.-aligned states, neutral countries that were developed and industrialized, and the former British Colonies that were considered developed. It can be defined succinctly as Europe, plus the richer countries of the former British Empire (USA, Canada, Australia, Singapore, New Zealand), Israel, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan.\nAccording to Nations Online, the member countries of NATO after the Cold War included:\nThe Western-aligned countries included:\nThe neutral countries included:\n\nSince the end of the Cold War, the original definition of the term \"First World\" is no longer necessarily applicable. There are varying definitions of the First World, however, they follow the same idea. John D. Daniels, past president of the Academy of International Business, defines the First World to be consisting of \"high-income industrial countries\". Scholar and Professor George J. Bryjak defines the First World to be the \"modern, industrial, capitalist countries of North America and Europe\". L. Robert Kohls, former director of training for the U.S. Information Agency and the Meridian International Center in Washington, D.C. uses First World and \"fully developed\" as synonyms.\n\nVarying definitions of the term \"First World\" and the uncertainty of the term in today's world leads to different indicators of First World status. In 1945, the United Nations used the terms first, second, third, and fourth worlds to define the relative wealth of nations (although popular use of the term fourth world did not come about until later). There are some references towards culture in the definition. They were defined in terms of Gross National Product (GNP), measured in U.S. dollars, along with other socio-political factors. The first world included the large industrialized, democratic (free elections, etc.) nations. The second world included modern, wealthy, industrialized nations, but they were all under communist control. Most of the rest of the world was deemed part of the third world, while the fourth world was considered to be those nations whose people were living on less than US$100 annually. If we use the term to mean high-income industrialized economies, then the World Bank classifies countries according to their GNI or gross national income per capita. The World Bank separates countries into four categories: high-income, upper-middle-income, lower-middle-income, and low-income economies. The First World is considered to be countries with high-income economies. The high-income economies are equated to mean developed and industrialized countries.\n\nThe terms \"First World\", \"Second World\", and \"Third World\" were originally used to divide the world's nations into three categories. The model did not emerge to its end state all at once. The complete overthrow of the pre–World War II status quo, known as the Cold War, left two superpowers (the United States and the Soviet Union) vying for ultimate global supremacy. They created two camps, known as blocs. These blocs formed the basis of the concepts of the First and Second Worlds.\n\nEarly in the Cold War era, NATO and the Warsaw Pact were created by the United States and The Soviet Union, respectively. They were also referred to as the Western Bloc and the Eastern Bloc. The circumstances of these two blocs were so different that they were essentially two worlds, however, they were not numbered first and second. The onset of the Cold War is marked by Winston Churchill's famous \"Iron Curtain\" speech. In this speech, Churchill describes the division of the West and East to be so solid that it could be called an iron curtain.\n\nIn 1952, the French demographer Alfred Sauvy coined the term Third World in reference to the three estates in pre-revolutionary France. The first two estates being the nobility and clergy and everybody else comprising the third estate. He compared the capitalist world (i.e., First World) to the nobility and the communist world (i.e., Second World) to the clergy. Just as the third estate comprised everybody else, Sauvy called the Third World all the countries that were not in this Cold War division, i.e., the unaligned and uninvolved states in the \"East-West Conflict\". With the coining of the term Third World directly, the first two groups came to be known as the \"First World\" and \"Second World\" respectively. Here the three-world system emerged.\n\nHowever, Shuswap Chief George Manuel believes the Three World Model to be outdated. In his 1974 book \"The Fourth World: An Indian Reality\", he describes the emergence of the Fourth World while coining the term. The fourth world refers to \"nations\", e.g., cultural entities and ethnic groups, of indigenous people who do not compose states in the traditional sense. Rather, they live within or across state boundaries (see First Nations). One example is the Native Americans of North America, Central America, and the Caribbean.\n\nWith the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, the Eastern Bloc ceased to exist and with it, the perfect applicability of the term Second World. The definitions of the First World, Second World, and Third World changed slightly, yet generally describe the same concepts.\n\nDuring the Cold War Era, the relationships between the First World, Second World and the Third World were very rigid. The First World and Second World were at constant odds with one another via the tensions between their two cores, the United States and the Soviet Union, respectively. The Cold War, by virtue of its name, was a primarily ideological struggle between the First and Second Worlds, or more specifically, the U.S. and the Soviet Union. Multiple doctrines and plans dominated Cold War dynamics including the Truman Doctrine, Marshall Plan (from the U.S) and the Molotov Plan (from the Soviet Union). The extent of the odds between the two worlds is evident in Berlin—which was then split into East and West. To stop citizens in East Berlin from having too much exposure to the capitalist West, the Soviet Union put up the Berlin Wall within the actual city.\n\nThe relationship between the First World and the Third World is characterized by the very definition of the Third World. Because countries of the Third World were noncommittal and non-aligned with both the First World and the Second World, they were targets for recruitment. In the quest for expanding their sphere of influence, the United States (core of the First World) tried to establish pro US regimes in the Third World. In addition, because the Soviet Union (core of the Second World) also wanted to expand, the Third World often became a site for conflict. Some examples include Vietnam and Korea. Success lay with the First World if at the end of the war, the country became capitalistic and democratic, and with the Second World, if the country became communist. While Vietnam as a whole was eventually communized, only the northern half of Korea remained communist. The Domino Theory largely governed United States policy regarding the Third World and their rivalry with the Second World. In light of the Domino Theory, the U.S. saw winning the proxy wars in the Third World as a measure of the \"credibility of U.S. commitments all over the world\".\n\nThe movement of people and information largely characterizes the inter-world relationships in the present day. A majority of breakthroughs and innovation originate in Western Europe and the U.S. and later their effects permeate globally. As judged by the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, most of the Top 30 Innovations of the Last 30 Years were from former First World countries (e.g., the U.S. and countries in Western Europe).\n\nThe disparity between knowledge in the First World as compared to the Third World is evident in healthcare and medical advancements. Deaths from water-related illnesses have largely been eliminated in \"wealthier nations\", while they are still a \"major concern in the developing world\". Widely treatable diseases in the developed countries of the First World, malaria and tuberculosis needlessly claim many lives in the developing countries of the Third World. 900,000 people die from malaria each year and combating malaria accounts for 40% of health spending in many African countries.\n\nThe International Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) announced that the first Internationalized Domain Names (IDNs) would be available at the summer of 2010. These include non-Latin domains such as Chinese, Arabic, and Russian. This is one way that the flow of information between the First and Third Worlds may become more even.\n\nThe movement of information and technology from the First World to various Third World countries has created a general \"aspir(ation) to First World living standards\". The Third World has lower living standards as compared to the First World. Information about the comparatively higher living standards of the First World comes through television, commercial advertisements and foreign visitors to their countries. This exposure causes two changes: a) living standards in some Third World countries rise and b) this exposure creates hopes and many from Third World countries immigrate – both legally and illegally – to these First World countries in hopes of attaining that living standard and prosperity. In fact, this immigration is the \"main contributor to the increasing populations of U.S. and Europe\". While these immigrations have greatly contributed to globalization, they have also precipitated trends like brain drain and problems with repatriation. They have also created immigration and governmental burden problems for the countries (i.e., First World) that people immigrate to.\n\nSome have argued that the most important human population problem for the world is not the high rate of population increase in certain Third World countries, but rather the \"increase in total human impact\". The per-capita impact – the resources consumed and the wastes created by each person – is varied globally; the highest in the First World and the lowest in the Third World: inhabitants of the U.S., Western Europe and Japan consume 32 times as many resources and put out 32 times as much waste as those in the Third World.\nHowever, China leads the world in total emissions, but its large population skews its per-capita statistic lower than those of more developed nations.\n\nAs large consumers of fossil fuels, First World countries drew attention to environmental pollution. The Kyoto Protocol is a treaty that is based on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which was finalized in 1992 at the Earth Summit in Rio. It proposed to place the burden of protecting the climate on the United States and other First World countries. Countries that were considered to be developing, such as China and India, were not required to approve the treaty because they were more concerned that restricting emissions would further restrain their development.\n\nUntil the recent past, little attention was paid to the interests of Third World countries. This is because most international relations scholars have come from the industrialized, First World nations. As more countries have continued to become more developed, the interests of the world have slowly started to shift. However, First World nations still have many more universities, professors, journals, and conferences, which has made it very difficult for Third World countries to gain legitimacy and respect with their new ideas and methods of looking at the world.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the modernization theory and development theory developed in Europe as a result of their economic, political, social, and cultural response to the management of former colonial territories. European scholars and practitioners of international politics hoped to theorize ideas and then create policies based on those ideas that would cause newly independent colonies to change into politically developed sovereign nation-states. However, most of the theorists were from the United States, and they were not interested in Third World countries achieving development by any model. They wanted those countries to develop through liberal processes of politics, economics, and socialization; that is to say, they wanted them to follow the liberal capitalist example of a so-called \"First World state\". Therefore, the modernization and development tradition consciously originated as a (mostly U.S.) alternative to the Marxist and neo-Marxist strategies promoted by the \"Second World states\" like the Soviet Union. It was used to explain how developing Third World states would naturally \"evolve\" into developed First World States, and it was partially grounded in liberal economic theory and a form of Talcott Parsons' sociological theory.\n\nThe United Nations's ESCWA has written that globalization \"is a widely-used term that can be defined in a number of different ways\". Joyce Osland from San Jose State University wrote: \"Globalization has become an increasingly controversial topic, and the growing number of protests around the world has focused more attention on the basic assumptions of globalization and its effects.\" \"Globalization is not new, though. For thousands of years, people—and, later, corporations—have been buying from and selling to each other in lands at great distances, such as through the famed Silk Road across Central Asia that connected China and Europe during the Middle Ages. Likewise, for centuries, people and corporations have invested in enterprises in other countries. In fact, many of the features of the current wave of globalization are similar to those prevailing before the outbreak of the First World War in 1914.\"\n\nThe most prominent example of globalization in the first world is the European Union (EU). The European Union is an agreement in which countries voluntarily decide to build common governmental institutions to which they delegate some individual national sovereignty so that decisions can be made democratically on a higher level of common interest for Europe as a whole. The result is a union of 28 Member States covering with roughly half a billion people. In total, the European Union produces almost a third of the world’s gross national product and the member states speak more than 23 languages. All of the European Union countries are joined together by a hope to promote and extend peace, democracy, cooperativeness, stability, prosperity, and the rule of law. In a 2007 speech, Benita Ferrero-Waldner, the European Commissioner for External Relations, said, \"The future of the EU is linked to globalization...the EU has a crucial role to play in making globalization work properly...\". In a 2014 speech at the European Parliament, the Italian PM Matteo Renzi stated, \"We are the ones who can bring civilization to globalization\".\nWith the \"Brexit\" (British Exit) of the EU in 2016, the fundamental economic and motivational powerhouse of globalization in Europe was placed, once again, in the hands of Germany.\n\nJust as the concept of the First World came about as a result of World War II, so did the European Union. In 1951 the beginnings of the EU were founded with the creation of European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC). From the beginning of its inception, countries in the EU were judged by many standards, including economic ones. This is where the relation between globalization, the EU, and First World countries arises. Especially during the 1990s when the EU focused on economic policies such as the creation and circulation of the Euro, the creation of the European Monetary Institute, and the opening of the European Central Bank.\n\nIn 1993, at the Copenhagen European Council, the European Union took a decisive step towards expanding the EU, what they called the Fifth Enlargement, agreeing that \"the associated countries in Central and Eastern Europe that so desire shall become members of the European Union\". Thus, enlargement was no longer a question of if, but when and how. The European Council stated that accession could occur when the prospective country is able to assume the obligations of membership, that is that all the economic and political conditions required are attained. Furthermore, it defined the membership criteria, which are regarded as the Copenhagen criteria, as follows:\n\nIt is clear that all these criteria are characteristics of developed countries. Therefore, there is a direct link between globalization, developed nations, and the European Union.\n\nA majority of multinational corporations find their origins in First World countries. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, multinational corporations proliferated as more countries focused on global trade. The series of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and later the World Trade Organization (WTO) essentially ended the protectionist measures that were dissuading global trade. The eradication of these protectionist measures, while creating avenues for economic interconnection, mostly benefited developed countries, who by using their power at GATT summits, forced developing and underdeveloped countries to open their economies to Western goods.\n\nAs the world starts to globalize, it is accompanied by criticism of the current forms of globalization, which are feared to be overly corporate-led. As corporations become larger and multinational, their influence and interests go further accordingly. Being able to influence and own most media companies, it is hard to be able to publicly debate the notions and ideals that corporations pursue. Some choices that corporations take to make profits can affect people all over the world. Sometimes fatally.\n\nThe third industrial revolution is spreading from the developed world to some, but not all, parts of the developing world. To participate in this new global economy, developing countries must be seen as attractive offshore production bases for multinational corporations. To be such bases, developing countries must provide relatively well-educated workforces, good infrastructure (electricity, telecommunications, transportation), political stability, and a willingness to play by market rules.\n\nIf these conditions are in place, multinational corporations will transfer via their offshore subsidiaries or to their offshore suppliers, the specific production technologies and market linkages necessary to participate in the global economy. By themselves, developing countries, even if well-educated, cannot produce at the quality levels demanded in high-value-added industries and cannot market what they produce even in low-value-added industries such as textiles or shoes. Put bluntly, multinational companies possess a variety of factors that developing countries must have if they are to participate in the global economy.\n\nOutsourcing, according to Grossman and Helpman, refers to the process of \"subcontracting an ever expanding set of activities, ranging from product design to assembly, from research and development to marketing, distribution and after-sales service\". Many companies have moved to outsourcing services in which they no longer specifically need or have the capability of handling themselves. This is due to considerations of what the companies can have more control over. Whatever companies tend to not have much control over or need to have control over will outsource activities to firms that they consider \"less competing\". According to SourcingMag.com, the process of outsourcing can take the following four phases.\n\nOutsourcing is among some of the many reasons for increased competition within developing countries. Aside from being a reason for competition, many First World countries see outsourcing, in particular offshore outsourcing, as an opportunity for increased income. As a consequence, the skill level of production in foreign countries handling the outsourced services increases within the economy; and the skill level within the domestic developing countries can decrease. It is because of competition (including outsourcing) that Robert Feenstra and Gordon Hanson predict that there will be a rise of 15–33 percent in inequality amongst these countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "8782181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8782181", "title": "Geographical zone", "text": "Geographical zone\n\nThe five main latitude regions of the Earth's surface comprise geographical zones, divided by the major circles of latitude. The differences between them relate to climate. They are as follows: \n\n\nOn the basis of latitudinal extent, the globe is divided into three broad heat zones.\n\nThe Torrid is also known as the Tropics. The zone is bounded on the north by the Tropic of Cancer and on the south by the Tropic of Capricorn; these latitudes mark the northern and southern extremes in which the sun seasonally passes directly overhead. This happens annually, but in the region between, the sun passes overhead twice a year.\n\nIn the Northern Hemisphere, in the sun's apparent northward migration after the March equinox, it passes overhead once, then after the June solstice, at which time it reaches the Tropic of Cancer, it passes over again on its apparent southward journey. After the September equinox the sun passes into the Southern Hemisphere. It then passes similarly over the southern tropical regions until it reaches the Tropic of Capricorn at the December solstice, and back again as it returns northwards to the Equator.\n\nIn the two Temperate Zones also known as tropical zone not, consisting of the tepid latitudes, the Sun is never directly overhead, and the climate is mild, generally ranging from warm to cool. The four annual seasons, spring, summer, autumn and winter, occur in these areas. The North Temperate Zone includes Europe, Northern Asia, and North and Central America. The South Temperate Zone includes Southern Australasia, southern South America, and Southern Africa.\n\nThe two Frigid Zones, or polar regions, experience the midnight sun and the polar night for part of the year - at the edge of the zone there is one day at the winter solstice when the Sun is invisible, and one day at the summer solstice when the sun remains above the horizon for 24 hours. In the center of the zone (the pole) the day is one year long with six months of daylight and six months of night. The Frigid Zones are the coldest regions of Earth and are generally covered in ice and snow.It receives slanting rays of the sun as this region lies farthest from the equator. Summer season in this region lies lasts for about 2 to 3 months and there is almost 24 hour sunlight during summer.\n\nThe concept of a geographical zone was first hypothesized by the ancient Greek scholar Parmenides and lastingly modified by Aristotle. Both philosophers theorized the Earth divided into three types of climatic zones based on their distance from the equator.\n\nLike Parmeneides, thinking that the area near the equator was too hot for habitation, Aristotle dubbed the region around the equator (from 23.5° N to 23.5° S) the \"Torrid Zone.\" Both philosophers reasoned the region from the Arctic Circle to the pole to be permanently frozen. This region, thought uninhabitable, was called the \"Frigid Zone.\" The only area believed to be habitable was the northern \"Temperate Zone\" (the southern one not having been discovered), lying between the \"Frigid Zones\" and the \"Torrid Zone\". However, humans have inhabited almost all climates on Earth, including inside the Arctic Circle.\n\nAs knowledge of the Earth's geography improved, a second \"Temperate Zone\" was discovered south of the equator, and a second \"Frigid Zone\" was discovered around the Antarctic. Although Aristotle's map was oversimplified, the general idea was correct. Today, the most commonly used climate map is the Köppen climate classification, developed by Russian climatologist of German descent and amateur botanist Wladimir Köppen (1846–1940), which divides the world into five major climate regions, based on average annual precipitation, average monthly precipitation, and average monthly temperature.\n\n"}
{"id": "1900591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1900591", "title": "German garden", "text": "German garden\n\nA German garden \nis a type of architecture of gardens, originating in Germany, influenced by the English garden concept. . With staffages (eg. grotto) and weeping trees a sense of emotional aesthetics should be developed. Typical of this kind of park design is clear structure and domestic animals, a necessary component of the garden, as seen in former times in the Luisium Palace near Dessau in Germany or still existing the historistic park of Villa Haas (Hesse) from 1892. \nLivestock in the park serve to enhance the idyll (nature experience). The park area therefore had to be redesigned to protect the plants (walls, hedges, watercourses, fences).\n\nThe term \"Ornamental Farm\", which is still used today in manors with small park areas, forms a flowing border to this. \nHere, too, beauty always serves the useful. \nAn own German garden style, as demanded by the leading German garden theorist Hirschfeld and his pupils, is never concretized in the literature compared to the French or English style. Therefore, in addition to the usual references to ancient mythology, the German style is limited to the decoration of statues, memorial stones, etc. of national importance.\n\nIf the English landscape garden mostly is the expression of a liberal bourgeoisie, the German garden is more oriented towards the model of the nobility and later incorporates elements of German Romanticism and other styles. \n\nOften the style concept is confused with the \"new german gardening\". Here, more emphasis is placed on easy-care, location-loyal shrubs and color aesthetics.\n\n"}
{"id": "7270264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7270264", "title": "Géoportail", "text": "Géoportail\n\nGéoportail is a comprehensive web mapping service of the French government that publishes maps and geophysical aerial photographs from more than 90 sources for France and its territories. The service, first developed by two public agencies (the IGN and the BRGM), was officially inaugurated on June 23, 2006 by president Jacques Chirac.\n\nThough the French service has sometimes been described as a competitor or rival to Google Maps, it is different from Google's mapping service (launched one year before in February 2005), since they have different objectives. Geoportail makes some unusual cartographic sources available, such as the renowned 18th-century Cassini maps and the Napoléonic-period Minutes État-Major, in addition to IGN road maps, administrative maps, topographic maps, cadastral and building surveys, public service utility maps, transportation maps, hydrographic maps, atmospheric and weather maps, geological maps, land use maps, maps of cultural sites, and much more. All maps and aerial photographs at Geoportail may be combined and viewed in transparent layers controlled by the user. The highest resolution of aerial photography, in general, is higher than what is available at Google Maps. Place names are identified and searchable for smallest villages and physical locations, beyond what is found on similar sites.\n\nSince its inception in June 2006, the French service has progressively added new data and has undergone significant updates. The latest major upgrade became available in summer 2012.\n\nThe project originated for two main purposes:\n\n\nThe project was launched during summer 2005 in the IGN. The goal for the opening of the Géoportail was set as summer 2007.\n\nOn January 6, 2006, in Metz, the former President of the French Republic, Jacques Chirac, expressed the wish to open the Géoportail during the year.\n\nIn early March 2006, the IGN launched an advertising campaign about the Géoportail.\n\nOn June 23, 2006, the site was launched by Jacques Chirac and other ministers.\n\nIn this first release, users could browse in 2D over:\n\nAfter the site was first launched, connection requests were 5 times greater than expected by the project team, which led to a crash of the servers. A message was posted apologizing for this problem while a solution was found.\nOn July 1, access to the site was restored.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56206039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56206039", "title": "History of a Voyage to the Land of Brazil", "text": "History of a Voyage to the Land of Brazil\n\nHistory of a Voyage to the Land of Brazil, Also Called America, (French: \"Histoire d'un voyage fait en la terre de Brésil\"; Latin: \"Historia Navigationis in Brasiliam, quae et America Dicitur\") is an account published by the French Huguenot Jean de Léry in 1578 about his experiences living in a Calvinist colony in the Guanabara Bay in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. After the colony dissolved, De Léry spent two months living with the Tupinambá Indians.\n\nBrazil was the first area of the Americas explored by the French. At the time of Jean de Léry’s \"History of a Voyage to the Land of Brazil, Also Called America\", the French and the Portuguese were in competition for control of the resources of Brazil. While reports of cannibalism among the indigenous people were widespread, interactions with the natives showed that they were friendly. At the time, it was common practice to use Europeans who had spent time with the indigenous peoples as interpreters to help the Europeans communicate with the natives. In the years preceding de Léry’s writing of \"History of a Voyage to the Land of Brazil, Also Called America\", the Portuguese had begun their effort to completely colonize Brazil, so the influence of the French was fading, though pockets of French control and influence still existed in Brazil. This fading influence coincided with the Portuguese's exploration of the Amazon river delta, though tade between the people of Brazil and the English and the Dutch was also increasing. A product of the competition for control of the lands of Brazil between the French and the Portuguese in Brazil was the creation of tribal alliances, with the Tupinamba, the group referred to in \"History of a Voyage to the Land of Brazil, Also Called America\", siding with the French against the Tupiniquim, who allied themselves with the Portuguese. In this era of first contacts, the understanding of the indigenous peoples were being informed by the accounts of early explorers like de Léry and the Portuguese explorers, so much of what was known to new arrivals about the indigenous peoples game from reports like de Léry's. These other accounts had some thematic similarities to de Léry’s, such as the usage of tribe names to describe the people specifically, or the frequent use of gender-indicating nouns like “man” or “woman”. Thus, de Léry was writing in a different historical context from those accounts emerging from Africa, which emphasized racial elements more than they emphasized gender or non-racial elements.\n\nJean de Léry was born to an upper-class family in 1534 in Margelle (Bourgogne), France. He was well-educated; he studied theology in Geneva whilst working as a shoe-maker. Léry was alive during the Wars of Religion time-period in France between the Protestants and the Catholics. It was during this time that the Genevan church was recruiting Frenchmen to be trained as missionaries of the Reformed Gospel. Léry joined this group but instead of returning to France, in November 1556, he and a group of thirteen Calvinist ministers were sent to Brazil. They were to create the first Protestant mission in the New World. Upon his return to France in 1558, he got married but it is unknown whether or not he had children. He returned to Geneva to further his ministerial studies and became a Protestant minister near Lyon. He also joined Protestant troops in the French religious wars where he used knowledge he gained from his expeditions in Brazil to help him and other soldiers to survive. In 1613, he died of the plague at the age of 79.\n\nThe book has 22 chapters, with Chapter 1 discussing the motive behind the voyage to Brazil and Chapters 2-5 describing the sights and events that occurred during the voyage to Brazil. Chapters 6-20 consist of Léry describing the land of Brazil, the physical description of the indigenous people, and the behaviors and customs of the indigenous people. Lastly, Chapters 21 and 22 recount the departure from Brazil and the trip back to France. The book contains detailed descriptions of the plants, animals, and indigenous people in the new world for the French.\n\nLéry describes the physical characteristics of the Tupinamba people and details the modifications they make to their bodies, as well as their comfortability with being completely nude. Lery describes the constitution of the average Tupinamba person:\n\nLéry goes on to describe that some individuals that he encountered lived well beyond one hundred years old (with respect that the Tupinamba people had a different Calendar than the Gregorian Calendar), and their elders are slow to develop grey or white hair. When describing the skin tone of the average Tupinamba person Lery states\n\nLéry then discusses how the Tupinamba people are completely comfortable with being naked, especially the women.\n\nMuch of the chapter is dedicated to describing various body modifications Lery witnessed among men and women of the Tupinamba nation including, but not limited to, tattoos and piercings. Lery states that men more often modify their bodies than women do. Lery describes a tradition of piercing the lower lip in young boys and inserting a bone an inch wide and that can be removed at any time. On this page he also describes how after birth, babies often have their noses pushed in to make their noses seem more attractive.\n\nTattoos are described as being made with the dye of the genipap fruit. Lery states that often people would blacken their legs and that the dye is to a degree waterproof and can take up to twelve days to wash off. Some of these painting are put over incisions they make on their skin that show how many people they have killed.\n\nLéry also describes facial paintings. This process is noted to have involved feathers from hens, red dye from Brazilwood (he described how other tribes used other colored dyes from different objects), and boiling the feathers. A gum was used as an adhesive and the feathers were chopped up with iron tools they procured from the colonists. Once this process was complete these feathers were put all over the body. Lery described how in some accounts these feathers have led to a misconception in Europe that the Tupinamba were covered in hair, and he stated this is not the case and that naturally the Tupinamba did not have a lot of hair on their bodies. It is also mentioned that feathers from a Toucan were often placed in the front of the ear and attached with an adhesive gum by many women. Ostrich feathers are also said to have been attached along a cotton thread to make a decorative hip belt.\n\nLéry states that Tupinamba people would regularly strip their bodies of hair which included eyebrows and eyelashes. Women would have their hair long, while men would typically shave their heads.\n\nAccording to Léry, the Tupinamba people had different types of necklaces. He wrote about what the natives called a boure which was made with pieces of seashells that were polished on a sandstone which then were pierced and lined along a cotton string. Lery also notes that boure can be made with a type of 'black wood' that has a similar appearance to seashell boure. Women also made bracelets around their arms that were made of bones joined together with a gum.\n\nLéry describes the customs of the Tupinambá people, how the Tupinambá people live, and how they treat their guests. For the most part, Jean de Léry indicates that the Tupinambá people are peaceful, but rarely a fight breaks out between them that may end in a death. The family of the deceased then has the right to kill the murderer as the Tupinambá people believe in revenge, such as a life for a life.\n\nLéry also recounts the living setup of the Tupinambá people. The houses are big and are made out of wood and pindo plants. Although families live in the same house, they are separated and have their own space, including land to plant crops. From time to time, the Tupinambá people would move their houses to a different location and when Jean de Léry asked for the reason why he was told that,“The change of air keeps them healthier, and that if they did other than what their grandfathers did, they would die immediately” Jean de Léry then goes in depth on how women spin cotton in order to make the beds that the Tupinambá people sleep on. Based on the description Jean de Léry gives, the beds are hammocks that are set up outside the houses. In addition to spinning cotton, women also do the majority of the housework and make pottery.\n\nLéry also describes an event that occurred to him regarding cannibalism. When he and his interpreter made a stop at one of the villages, he was greeted accordingly and realized that the Tupinamba people were in the midst of a celebration. This celebration consisted of dancing, cooking, and eating a prisoner they had killed earlier. Jean de Léry did not want to participate in the celebration and stayed at his bed alone. However, one of the Tupinamba people came and offered him the prisoner’s foot, but since Jean de Léry’s interpreter was not present, he thought they were threatening to eat him. By morning, Jean de Léry realized his error and was afraid for nothing.\n\nThe customs of the Tupinambá people regarding how they treat guests consisted of seating their guests on a bed while the women wept in gratitude for their visit. During this, the head of the household makes an arrow and when he is done, he greets the guest and offers them food. The guests must eat on the ground since there are no tables. After the women are done weeping, they serve the guest fruit or other small gifts. If the guest desires to sleep there, their bed is hung among several fires to keep them warm. At the end of the visit, gifts are exchanged, which are usually small since the Tupinambá people travel by walking and do not have animals to carry cargo for them. Jean de Léry praises the treatment he has received from the Tupinambá people and even compares it to the French, as he states,“...I can’t help saying that the hypocritical welcomes of those over here who sue slippery speech for consolidation of the afflicted is a far cry from the humanity of these people, whom nonetheless we call “‘barbarians’”Lastly, Jean de Léry describes how the Tupinambá people make fires through the use of sticks only. He describes their method and how they deem it necessary to have fire with them at all times due to their fear of an evil spirit called Aygnan. He ends the chapter explaining that the Tupinambá people and the French get along well because they have a common enemy: the Portuguese.\n\nJean de Léry describes how the Tupinambá people treat illnesses and how they handle deaths. If someone has a wound and bedridden, they are treated through suction and are not fed unless they explicitly ask for food. However, celebrations still continue as normal. The most dangerous disease that the Tupinambá people cannot treat is called pians and occurs through lechery. Jean de Léry compares it to smallpox and states that it affects the entire body and lasts for a lifetime.\n\nIf someone dies, there is great mourning as Jean de Léry compares the cries of women to, “the howling of dogs and wolves. The Tupinambá people comfort each other, remember the good deeds the deceased person had done, and sing in their memory. Mourning lasts half a day, until the Tupinambá proceed with burying the body in the ground with jewelry the person used to wear. Jean de Léry mentions how the Tupinambá people do not bury any valuable jewelry with dead bodies anymore since the French have arrived, perhaps due to past experiences with Europeans digging up graves for jewelry. On the first night the body is buried, the Tupinambá people have a feast on the grace of the deceased person and do this until they believe the body has fully decayed. The rationale behind this custom is that the Tupinambá people believe that Aygnan, the evil spirit mentioned before, is hungry and finds no other meat around, he will dig up the dead body and eat it. Thus, the celebration occurs for protection. Still, Jean de Léry finds this custom disrespectful and tried to convince the Tupinambá people not to do it through interpreters with little success. Lastly, the Tupinambá people place the plant called pindo used to build houses on graves as well so that they can recognize where their loved one was buried.\n\n\"History of a Voyage to the Land of Brazil\" is regarded as a significant work in many fields. Reviewers of the text note the breadth of its scope and the varying opportunities for its use. It is fundamental in ethnographic studies and South American ecology. It also provides insight to history, colonizer and native languages, religion, and political theory. Because of its wide disciplinary coverage, it is a valuable source for historians and colonial scholars as well as geologists and biologists. For colonial historians, it contributes to a greater understanding of “the meaning and significance of the European conquest of the Americas” and helps to describe native people, their relationship with the Europeans, and the cognitive justifications of European domination. It also details “how Brazil was created out of a fusion of Indian, European (and later African) elements” and highlights larger historical themes.\n\nReviews of Janet Whatley’s 1990 English translation of \"History of a Voyage to the Land of Brazil\" are overwhelmingly favorable. There are two main components to most reviews beyond the text’s significance: praise for the detail provided by de Léry and praise for Whatley’s translation. De Léry describes the lives, culture, and rituals of the Tupinambá with “detailed thoroughness” and is seen as exceptional in “his surprising openness to an alien culture.” The great detail of de Léry’s work and his willingness to intimately engage with the Tupinambá is only critiqued by his “naive comparisons between the savagery of the Indians and the savagery of the Europeans.” Whatley is noted as a “graceful” translator and “a stylistic marvel.” It is generally agreed that she was able to stay true to the charm of de Léry’s prose and maintain the stylistic integrity of sixteenth-century French writing. Additions made by Whatley were also received well, as the inclusion of notes on references made by de Léry were helpful reading guides and aided in the placement of de Léry’s writing in historical context.\n\n"}
{"id": "20770448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20770448", "title": "Index of Bermuda-related articles", "text": "Index of Bermuda-related articles\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of topics related to the British Overseas Territory of the Bermuda Islands.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1595626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1595626", "title": "Interagency GPS Executive Board", "text": "Interagency GPS Executive Board\n\nThe Interagency GPS Executive Board (IGEB) was an agency of the United States federal government that sought to integrate the needs and desires of various governmental agencies into formal Global Positioning System Planning. GPS was administered by the Department of Defense, but had grown to service a wide variety of constituents. The majority of GPS uses are now non-military, so this board was fundamental in ensuring the needs of non-military users.\n\nIn 2004, the IGEB was superseded by the National Executive Committee for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation and Timing (PNT), established by presidential order.\n\n"}
{"id": "214929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=214929", "title": "Isle of Ely", "text": "Isle of Ely\n\nThe Isle of Ely is a historic region around the city of Ely in Cambridgeshire, England. Between 1889 and 1965, it formed an administrative county.\n\nIts name is said to mean \"island of eels\", a reference to the creatures that were often caught in the local rivers for food. This etymology was first recorded by the Venerable Bede.\n\nUntil the 17th century, the area was an island surrounded by a large area of fenland, a type of swamp. It was coveted as an area difficult to penetrate, and was controlled in the very early medieval period by the Gyrwas, an Anglo-Saxon tribe. Upon their marriage in 652, Tondbert, a prince of the Gyrwas, presented Æthelthryth (who became St. Æthelthryth), the daughter of King Anna of the East Angles, with the Isle of Ely. She afterwards founded a monastery at Ely, which was destroyed by Viking raiders in 870, but was rebuilt and became a famous Abbey and Shrine. The Fens were ultimately drained. This began in 1626 using a network of canals designed by Dutch experts. Many Fenlanders were opposed to the draining as it deprived some of them of their traditional livelihood; acts of vandalism on dykes, ditches and sluices were common, but the drainage was completed by the end of the century.\n\nThe area's natural defences led to it playing a role in the military history of England. Following the Norman Conquest, the Isle became a refuge for Anglo-Saxon forces under Earl Morcar, Bishop Aethelwine of Durham and Hereward the Wake in 1071. The area was taken by William the Conqueror only after a prolonged struggle.\nIn 1139 civil war broke out between the forces of King Stephen and the Empress Matilda. Bishop Nigel of Ely, a supporter of Matilda, unsuccessfully tried to hold the Isle. In 1143 Geoffrey de Mandeville rebelled against Stephen, and made his base in the Isle. Geoffrey was mortally wounded at Burwell in 1144.\nIn 1216, during the First Barons' War, the Isle was unsuccessfully defended against the army of King John. Ely took part in the Peasants' Revolt of 1381.\n\nFrom 1109 until 1837, the Isle was under the jurisdiction of the Bishop of Ely who appointed a Chief Justice of Ely and exercised temporal powers within the Liberty of Ely. This temporal jurisdiction originated in a charter granted by King Edgar in 970, and confirmed by Edward the Confessor and Henry I to the abbot of Ely. The latter monarch established Ely as the seat of a bishop in 1109, creating the Isle of Ely a county palatine under the bishop. An act of parliament in 1535/6 ended the palatine status of the Isle, with all justices of the peace to be appointed by letters patent issued under the great seal and warrants to be issued in the king's name. However, the bishop retained exclusive jurisdiction in civil and criminal matters, and was custos rotulorum. A chief bailiff was appointed for life by the bishop, and performed the functions of high sheriff within the liberty, who also headed the government of the city of Ely.\n\nThe \"Liberty of Ely Act 1837\" ended the bishop's secular powers in the Isle. The area was declared a division of Cambridgeshire, with the right to appoint justices revested in the crown. Following the 1837 Act the Isle maintained separate Quarter Sessions, and formed its own constabulary.\n\nUnder the \"Local Government Bill\" of 1888, which proposed the introduction of elected county councils, the Isle was to form part of Cambridgeshire. Following the intervention of the local member of parliament, Charles Selwyn, the Isle of Ely was constituted a separate administrative county in 1889. The county was small in terms of both area and population, and its abolition was proposed by the Local Government Boundary Commission in 1947. The report of the LGBC was not acted upon, and the administrative county survived until 1965. Following the recommendations of the Local Government Commission for England, on 1 April 1965 the bulk of the area was merged to form Cambridgeshire and Isle of Ely, with the Thorney Rural District going to Huntingdon and Peterborough.\n\nIn 1894 the county was divided into county districts, with the rural districts being Ely Rural District, Thorney Rural District, Whittlesey Rural District, Wisbech Rural District, North Witchford Rural District, and the urban districts were Ely, March, Whittlesey and Wisbech (the only municipal borough). Whittlesey Rural district consisted of only one parish (Whittlesey Rural), which was added to Whittlesey urban district, in 1926.\n\nThe Isle of Ely parliamentary constituency was created as a two-member seat in the First and Second Protectorate Parliaments from 1654 to 1659. The constituency was re-created with a single seat in 1918. In the boundary changes of 1983 it was replaced by the new constituency of North East Cambridgeshire. Original historical documents relating to the Isle of Ely are held by Cambridgeshire Archives and Local Studies at the County Record Office in Cambridge.\n\nThe Isle of Ely County Council was granted a coat of arms on 1 May 1931. Previous to the grant the council had been using the arms of Diocese of Ely: \"Gules, three ducal coronets, two and one or\". In the 1931 grant, silver and blue waves were added to the episcopal arms, to suggest that the county was an \"isle\". The crest above the shield was a human hand grasping a trident around which an eel was entwined, referring to the popular derivation of \"Ely\". On the wrist of the hand was a \"Wake knot\", representing Hereward the Wake.\n\n"}
{"id": "43534510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43534510", "title": "James Taranik", "text": "James Taranik\n\nJames Vladimir Taranik (April 23, 1940 – June 21, 2011) was an American scientist and educator who worked in the area of earth-observation satellite remote sensing. He was Chief of NASA's Non-Renewable Resources Branch and Program Scientist of the Space Shuttle's first scientific flights with cargo that included experiments related to geology, atmospheric chemistry, meteorology, marine biology, and plant physiology in the earth and life sciences. He also held various positions in the Nevada System of Higher Education, including the Desert Research Institute and the Mackay School of Earth Sciences and Engineering.\n\nTaranik graduated from Stanford University in 1962 with a B.S. in Geology, where he also earned a varsity letter as captain of the water polo team. He served as Staff Geologist for two years in 1966–1967 for the U.S. Army Engineer Command Headquarters in Vietnam, during which time he was awarded the Bronze Star Medal. In 1975, he received his Ph.D. in Geology from the Colorado School of Mines, for his geological mapping study, \"Stratigraphic and Structural Evolution of Breckenridge Area, Central Colorado\".\n\nHe was the great-great-grandson of Sergeant Patrick Gass, an officer of the 1804-1806 Lewis and Clark Expedition, established to explore and map the newly acquired western half of the United States. Gass wrote the first printed journal of the expedition.\n\nTaranik died just nine days before his planned retirement from his position as Director of the Mackay School of Earth Sciences and Engineering. He and his wife, Colleen, had two children, Dan and Debra, and three grandchildren.\n\nTaranik's career began in 1971 at the Iowa Geological Survey, where he founded the Iowa Remote Sensing Laboratory. While in Iowa, he also taught at the University of Iowa, including pioneering aerospace remote sensing courses. He next served as Principal Remote Sensing Scientist at the EROS Data Center in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, under the auspices of the United States Geological Survey (USGS), from 1975 to 1979. In 1979, he became branch chief of the Non-Renewable Resources section at NASA headquarters in Washington, DC, where he managed NASA's programs for engineering development and flight of aerospace technology for solid earth applications. He was the Program Scientist for the first set of scientific instruments sent up on the Space Shuttle as cargo in 1981, having served in that role for both of the first two Space Shuttle launches. He was awarded NASA's Exceptional Scientific Achievement Medal in 1982.\n\nHe was dean of the Mackay School of Mines at the University of Nevada, Reno (UNR) from 1982–1987, during which time he also served as a full professor in UNR's Department of Geological Sciences. Taranik left UNR to become President of the Desert Research Institute — the environmental research arm of the Nevada System of Higher Education — from 1987–1998.\n\nTaranik established the Strategic Materials Research, Education and Policy Center and the Cooperative Institute for Aerospace Science and Terrestrial Applications (CIASTA). He was Founding Program Director and Principal Investigator for the Nevada System of Higher Education NASA Space Grant Consortium and the NASA Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR). Taranik also served on the board of directors for Newmont Gold, and subsequently its affiliate Newmont Mining Corporation, from 1986 to 2010. He was an advocate for Newmont's expansion of its sustainability programs.\n\nIn 1987, he took on the role of President and CEO of the Desert Research Institute in Nevada, a statewide institute of the Nevada System of Higher Education devoted to cross-disciplinary environmental research. He would hold that position until 1998, when he retired as President Emeritus. As President, he refined DRI's mission for strategic and budgetary planning, created DRI Research Parks, and established new facilities for the Northern Nevada Science Center and the Southern Nevada Science Center. Under his leadership, the first Nevada Medal was awarded in 1988 to recognize exceptional scientific achievement. During this time, Taranik also served as a technical advisor to the Naval Research Laboratory's Hyperspectral Digital Imagery Collection Experiment (HYDICE).\n\nIn 1994, Taranik was a designee on the Pre-Launch Review Board for NASA's SIR-C/X-SAR missions. He was a Director of Earth Satellite Corporation (EarthSat) from 1997-2002.\n\nIn 1998, Taranik returned to the Mackay School of Mines to resume teaching and research activities as Regents Professor and Chair of the Arthur Brant Endowed Chair of Exploration Geophysics. In 2000, Taranik became the founding director of the Great Basin Center for Geothermal Energy and the Arthur Brant Laboratory for Exploration Geophysics at UNR. In 2003, as Acting Dean, he oversaw Mackay School of Mines's transition to the Mackay School of Earth Sciences and Engineering (MSESE). The following year, he became MSESE's first Director, a position he would hold until 2009, when he stepped down to focus on teaching as part of the Department of Geological Sciences and Engineering faculty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6563859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6563859", "title": "Kunság", "text": "Kunság\n\nKunság is a historical and geographical region in Hungary situated in the current Bács-Kiskun and Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok counties. Like other historical European regions called Cumania, it is named for the Cumans, a nomadic tribe who formed a confederation with the Kipchaks that settled the area. It is divided into Greater Cumania and Little Cumania.\n\nIn a study by Bogacsi-Szabo, Erika. et al. (2005) of the mtDNA (Mitochondrial DNA) of the Cuman nomad population that migrated into the Carpathian basin during the 13th century, six haplogroups were revealed. \"One of these haplogroups belongs to the M lineage (haplogroup D) and is characteristic of Eastern Asia, but this is the second most frequent haplogroup in southern Siberia too. All the other haplogroups (H, V, U, U3, and JT) are West Eurasian, belonging to the N macrohaplogroup. Out of the eleven remains, four samples belonged to haplogroup H, two to haplogroup U, two to haplogroup V, and one each to the JT, U3, and D haplogroups. Modern Hungarian samples represent 15 haplogroups. All but one is a West Eurasian haplogroup [the remaining one is East Asian (haplogroup F)], but all belong to the N lineage. Four haplogroups (H, V, U*, JT), present in the ancient samples, can also be found in the modern Hungarians, but only for haplogroups H and V were identical haplotypes found. Haplogroups U3 and D occur exclusively in the ancient group, and 11 haplogroups (HV, U4, U5, K, J, J1a, T, T1, T2, W, and F) occur only in the modern Hungarian population. Haplogroup frequency in the modern Hungarian population is similar to other European populations, although haplogroup F is almost absent in continental Europe; therefore the presence of this haplogroup in the modern Hungarian population can reflect some past contribution.\"\n\n\"The results suggested that the Cumanians, as seen in the excavation at Csengele, were far from genetic homogeneity. Nevertheless, the grave artifacts are typical of the Cumanian steppe culture; and five of the six skeletons that were complete enough for anthropometric analysis appeared Asian rather than European (Horváth 1978, 2001), including two from the mitochondrial haplogroup H, which is typically European. The only skeleton for which anthropological examination indicated a partly European ancestry was that of the chieftain, whose haplotype is most frequently found in the Balkans.\"\n\nPrior to their entry into the Kingdom of Hungary, the Cumans inhabited the vast areas of the Pontic-Caspian steppe, where they had created a powerful nomadic confederacy (see Cumania). In the 13th century, they were attacked and defeated by the Mongol Empire after which most of them fled to Hungary, the Bulgarian Empire, and the Byzantine Empire. \n\nThe first Cumans arrived in Hungary in 1239 but there was violence between the nomadic Cumans and the settled Hungarians. Hungarians murdered the Cuman leader Kuthen (Kötöny) and the Cumans fled to the Balkans in 1241, pillaging as they went.\n\nFollowing the Mongol invasion of Hungary in 1246, King Béla IV, invited 40 to 60 thousand Cumans and smaller group of Jazyges back to Hungary to settle in areas of the Great Hungarian Plain depopulated by Mongol invasions that would become Kunság and Jazygia. An area between Szolnok and Debrecen became Greater Cumania (Nagykunság) while an area between the Kalocsa and Szeged became Little Cumania (Kiskunság). \n\nIn exchange for military service to the Hungarian king against the Mongols, the Cumans were allowed to keep their own ethnic customs but they were required to settle permanently and convert to Christianity. Bela bethrothed his son Stephen to Kuthen's daughter Elizabeth. In 1279, King Ladislaus IV formalized Cuman territorial autonomy in Kunság.\n\nFollowing the Ottoman occupation of much of Hungary in the 16th century, the region was part of the Jazygia-Cumania (Jászkunság) District which lay outside the Kingdom of Hungary's county system.\nThe 1711 Peace of Szatmár following the Rákóczi Uprising abolished the privileges of the Cumans and Jazyges but Jazygia-Cumania was restored by Maria Theresa of Austria in 1745. The territories possessed greater rights than the counties of Hungary including the freedom from villeinage (serfdom) well before its abolition throughout Hungary in 1858.\n\nCuman autonomy had been revoked and restored several times over the centuries, but in 1876 the territories were permanently abolished and incorporated into the county system as part of the Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok and Pest-Pilis-Solt-Kiskun counties.\n\nAfter settling in Kunság, the Cumans continued to practice nomadic of animal husbandry and lived in felt-covered yurts. By the end of the 14th century, the Cumans had begun to settle in villages and were gradually assimilating into Hungarian ways. The wars and Ottoman invasion in the 16th century disrupted the social structure of the region, but the Cumans returned to the areas and kept some of their native social customs.\n\nThe Turkic Cuman language was still spoken at the time of the Ottoman occupation and during the Protestant Reformation but it died out in Hungary by the middle of the 17th century and its traces can only be found in placenames.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55687900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55687900", "title": "Lagoa Azul", "text": "Lagoa Azul\n\nLagoa Azul (Portuguese for \"blue lagoon\") is a small bay in the northern part of the island of São Tomé in São Tomé and Príncipe. It is part of the Parque Natural Obô de São Tomé. It is 4 km northwest of the town Guadalupe. It is a popular spot for diving. There is a lighthouse near the bay, built in 1997.\n"}
{"id": "55470647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55470647", "title": "Lađevačko Selište", "text": "Lađevačko Selište\n\nLađevačko Selište is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "28198471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28198471", "title": "Leo Bagrow", "text": "Leo Bagrow\n\nLeo Bagrow (1881 Saint Petersburg – 9 August 1957 The Hague), born Lev Solomonovich Bagrow, was a historian of cartography and the founder of the journal \"Imago Mundi\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3624885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3624885", "title": "Lion's Head, Ontario", "text": "Lion's Head, Ontario\n\nLion's Head is a community in the municipality of Northern Bruce Peninsula, Bruce County, Ontario, Canada. Located at the midway point of the Bruce Peninsula, about halfway between Owen Sound and Tobermory, Lion's Head is just east of Ferndale on Bruce Road 9. Lion's Head is located on or somewhere near the 45th parallel north, halfway between the Equator and the North Pole. The town is named after the resemblance of a lion's profile in the rock formation of the Niagara Escarpment. The first post office opened in 1895. The estimated summer population ranges widely from 900 to 5000.\n\nIt is a well travelled holiday spot on the coast of Georgian Bay.\n\nThe limestone rock formations make it a scenic area for canoeing, kayaking, hiking the Bruce Trail, rock climbing and visiting the marina-lookout by car.\n\nBruce Peninsula District School is the only secondary school north of Wiarton, and one of the few schools in Ontario to go from Kindergarten to grade 12.\nThere are accommodations, restaurants, shops, and galleries all located in Lion's Head. There is also a marina, school, hospital, bank, library, pharmacy, grocery store and several churches in the town. Lion's Head is under the Ontario Provincial Police (OPP) jurisdiction. There is also the Northern Bruce Peninsula Fire Department, which operates four trucks in the region.\n\nThe area has four somewhat distinct seasons. Cold, snowy, and blustery winters, as well as warm, comfortable summers are the usual pattern. Summer mornings are usually cool but do warm quickly before 9 or 10 AM. Rain showers are common, along with thunderstorms, and a few severe thunderstorms per year. Tornadoes are less likely in the region, unlike the far southern part of Ontario. Summer brings the largest number of people to Lion's Head (mostly July and August). This influx of people creates parking problems especially near the beach and marina. The 2017 tourist season was the most crowded yet according to many long time residents. The population drops during the colder seasons.\nLion's Head experienced a more significant tornado during the 1985 Barrie tornado outbreak which damaged areas on the outskirts of the village. Since then, no tornadoes have been reported in the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "15017634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15017634", "title": "List of Thai flags", "text": "List of Thai flags\n\nThis is a list of flags used in Thailand.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4951386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4951386", "title": "List of bands from Iceland", "text": "List of bands from Iceland\n\nThis is a list of bands from the country of Iceland.\n\nFor listing of singers from Iceland, see List of Icelandic singers.\n\nFor singers-songwriters from Iceland, see List of singer-songwriters#Iceland\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1114506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1114506", "title": "List of colonial governors of Eritrea", "text": "List of colonial governors of Eritrea\n\nWali = \"Governor\"\n\nFor continuation after independence, \"see:\" List of heads of state of Eritrea\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40193792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40193792", "title": "List of gubernatorial nominees from the Popular Democratic Party of Puerto Rico", "text": "List of gubernatorial nominees from the Popular Democratic Party of Puerto Rico\n\nThis is list of the nominees that the Popular Democratic Party has ticketed for the post of governor of Puerto Rico throughout history.\n"}
{"id": "42281848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42281848", "title": "List of hotels in Los Angeles", "text": "List of hotels in Los Angeles\n\nThis is a list of hotels in the Greater Los Angeles Area.\n"}
{"id": "27996219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27996219", "title": "List of landslides", "text": "List of landslides\n\nThis list of landslides is a list of notable landslides and mudflows divided into sections by date and type. This list is very incomplete as there is no central catalogue for landslides, although some for individual countries/areas do exist. Volumes of landslides are recorded in the scientific literature using cubic kilometres (km) for the largest and millions of cubic metres (normally given the non-standard shortening of MCM) for most events.\n\n"}
{"id": "8052215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8052215", "title": "List of people from Novi Sad", "text": "List of people from Novi Sad\n\nThis is a list of famous or notable citizens of Novi Sad (included in the list are natives as well as permanent and/or temporary residents).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "409173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409173", "title": "List of political parties in Solomon Islands", "text": "List of political parties in Solomon Islands\n\nThis article lists political parties in Solomon Islands.\nSolomon Islands has a multi-party system with numerous political parties.\n\nIn most elections, no one party has won an absolute majority of seats and so usually parties must work with each other to form coalition governments. The one exception is the 1989 election, when the People's Alliance Party (PAP) led by Solomon Mamaloni did win an absolute majority. However, in late 1990, Mamaloni broke away from the PAP and continued ruling in a coalition government until the 1993 election.\n\nMany parties are established immediately prior to an election and most are very short-lived. Some will achieve no parliamentary representation and dissolve within a year. Others will achieve parliamentary representation but, having served their purpose, are then discarded.\n\nThe most enduring political parties in Solomon Islands are the PAP and the Solomon Islands United Party, founded in 1979 and 1980, respectively. The PAP has led three governments and been in coalition in at least three more. The United Party led two governments in the 1980s however its representation has waned in recent years and after the 2006, it no longer had any parliamentary representatives.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "844257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844257", "title": "List of rulers of Peshawar", "text": "List of rulers of Peshawar\n\nList of Afghan Rulers in present-day Afghanistan with capital at Peshawar \n"}
{"id": "5812590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5812590", "title": "Lists of rulers of Madagascar", "text": "Lists of rulers of Madagascar\n\nThis is a list of rulers and office-holders of Madagascar.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3480138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3480138", "title": "London Government Act 1963", "text": "London Government Act 1963\n\nThe London Government Act 1963 (c. 33) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, which recognised officially the conurbation known as Greater London and created a new local government structure for the capital. The Act significantly reduced the number of local government districts in the area, resulting in local authorities responsible for larger areas and populations. The upper tier of local government was reformed to cover the whole of the Greater London area and with a more strategic role; and the split of functions between upper and lower tiers was recast. The Act classified the boroughs into inner and outer London groups. The City of London and its corporation were essentially unreformed by the legislation. Subsequent amendments to the Act have significantly amended the upper tier arrangements, with the Greater London Council abolished in 1986, and the Greater London Authority introduced in 2000. , the London boroughs are more or less identical to those created in 1965, although with some enhanced powers over services such as waste management and education.\n\nThe Act set up a two-tier local government system, with powers divided between the newly formed Greater London Council (GLC), 32 new London borough councils and the existing City of London. The provisions of the Act came into effect on 1 April 1965, the new councils having been elected as \"shadow authorities\" in 1964.\n\nSection 1 of the Act established 32 London boroughs, each of which was to be governed by an elected borough council, and was to be regulated by the Municipal Corporations Act 1882 and Local Government Act 1933. Twelve of the boroughs, corresponding to the former County of London, were designated \"Inner London boroughs\". The remaining twenty boroughs were designated \"Outer London boroughs\". None of the boroughs were given names in the Act.\n\nSection 2 declared that the \"area comprising the areas of the London boroughs, the City and the Temples shall constitute an administrative area to be known as Greater London\". An elected Greater London Council was to govern the new area.\n\nSection 3 abolished the administrative counties of Middlesex and London (created in 1889), and absorbed parts of Kent, Essex, Surrey and Hertfordshire plus the whole of the City of London to form the administrative area of Greater London. As well as the two counties, the twenty-eight existing metropolitan boroughs, plus all county boroughs, county districts or parishes that fell wholly within Greater London were to cease to exist, along with their councils. No part of Greater London was to form part of any administrative county, county district or parish. Three Middlesex urban districts not included in Greater London were transferred to other counties: Potters Bar to Hertfordshire and Staines and Sunbury-on-Thames to Surrey.\n\nThe Act also established the Inner London Education Authority to administer schools and colleges in the 12 inner London boroughs. The remaining 20 outer boroughs became local education authorities in their own right. The London Traffic Area and the London and Home Counties Traffic Advisory Committee, set up in 1924, were abolished, with the GLC gaining powers to regulate road traffic. An alteration was also made to the Metropolitan Police District to include the whole of Greater London, but the district continued to include a number of areas in surrounding counties.\n\nThe composition of the London boroughs was given in Schedule 1 of the Act:\n\n\nAs passed, the Act did not include names for the new boroughs. Keith Joseph, the Minister, asked local councils for suggestions as to possible names, asking that they be a single word if possible, and noting that \"the best name will be the place recognised as the centre of the new borough\". Double-barrelled names were to be prohibited.\n\nThe 'Royal Borough of Charlton' was proposed for the Greenwich and Woolwich metropolitan boroughs. Lewisham and Deptford were unable to agree on whether the borough should be named Lewisham, Deptford or after the central river/stream, Ravensbourne. The councils to become part of the London Borough of Barnet suggested \"Northgate\" or \"Northern Heights\" as names. Islington and Finsbury (Borough 3) were also unable to come to a decision, with Finsbury preferring \"New River\" and Islington preferring Islington. Richmond and Twickenham (Borough 24) disagreed over which, if any of those names should appear in the new borough names. Suggestions for Enfield (Borough 32) included \"Enfield Chase\" and \"Edmonton Hundred\".\n\nNine names were without controversy and were proposed in September 1963.\n\nSix new names were proposed by the Minister in October 1963 for boroughs unable to decide upon a name\n\nThe Minister proposed a further twelve names in January 1964\n\nCouncillors for the Metropolitan Boroughs of Chelsea and Kensington were divided and opposed the loss of their two ancient parish names in combining, so the Minister for Housing and Local Government made one exception and the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea came into being.\n\nThe split of functions between the new authorities were:\n\nA royal commission was appointed in 1957 under the chairmanship of Sir Edwin Herbert to consider future local government structures in Greater London. The commission delivered its report in October 1960 proposing the creation of a Greater London with 52 Greater London Boroughs.\n\nThe Greater London area set up by the 1963 Act was very similar to that proposed by the Herbert Report but excluded Banstead, Caterham and Warlingham, Esher, Walton and Weybridge in Surrey, Chigwell in Essex, Cheshunt in Hertfordshire, and Staines and Sunbury in Middlesex.\n\nThe government considered that the boroughs should be fewer and larger so published its plan for 34 London boroughs in late 1961. In the County of London this reorganised the proposed boroughs so that combinations for the present boroughs of Camden, Westminster and Islington were achieved. The Hackney borough had Shoreditch rather than the Tower Hamlets borough. Lewisham would be standalone, Deptford would combine with Camberwell and Bermondsey, and Southwark and Lambeth would unite. Eastern Wandsworth was to form a borough in itself, with western Wandsworth being paired with Battersea.\n\nOutside the former County of London, the outer London boroughs were to be:\n\n\nThe Minister of Housing and Local Government announced, on their request, that five urban districts (Cheshunt, Chigwell, Esher, Staines and Sunbury) were to be excluded from Greater London on 18 May 1961, having earlier confirmed the widely expected exclusion of Banstead, Caterham and Warlingham and Walton and Weybridge.\n\nRequests from the councils of Romford, Barnet, Carshalton, Coulsdon and Purley, Feltham, Yiewsley and West Drayton to be removed from the area were turned down. Additionally, the department decided that the \"northern part of the borough of Epsom and Ewell definitely forms part of Greater London and must be included\". Epsom and Ewell would ultimately be excluded from the area in its entirety.\n\nChanges published in August 1962 saw a reduction from 33 to 32 boroughs, and in greater detail, Shoreditch to join Hackney; Wanstead and Woodford to be added to Ilford to form 'Redbridge' rather than join Waltham Forest; Chislehurst and Sidcup to be divided between the Bromley and the Bexley; East Barnet, Friern Barnet, Hendon, and Finchley to form a single borough (Barnet), Enfield to join Edmonton and Southgate (to be simply Enfield), the Tottenham, Hornsey and Wood Green authorities to combine to form Haringey and at the most local level, Clapham and Streatham neighbourhoods to join Lambeth.\n\nThe slightly amended form was laid before Parliament for substantive debates from November 1962 until April 1963. This proposed the eventually settled 32 more empowered boroughs forming a new administrative county.\n\nMinisterial proponents of the Bill advanced its smooth passage summarising the Royal Commission's Report:\n\nThe leaders and all members of the Opposition in both houses saw the Bill as being partisan, opposed London's re-casting and celebrated its predecessor:\n\nFive Conservative MPs (for North-West Croydon, South Croydon, Carshalton, Wimbledon and East Surrey) sympathised with a petition from 20,000-30,000 people from Croydon and two hillside semi-rural towns not to join London. Former Labour Home Secretary James Chuter Ede, a retired Surrey magistrate and county councillor, co-led the opposition in Committee, having met residents who were all \"resolutely and determinedly opposed to the Bill.\" He was instrumental in getting his own area, Epsom and Ewell, completely excluded. Charles Doughty, MP for East Surrey (including Coulsdon and Purley), prophesied that \"A shotgun marriage of the kind proposed in the Bill between Coulsdon, Purley and [the Borough of] Croydon can never be successful...The affinities of Coulsdon and Purley go south, not to the north and east. This is a very bad part of the Bill.\" The Bill passed, and the boundaries including this fusion, have lasted since 1 April 1965.\n\nThe Local Government Act 1972 provided a mechanism for councils to change their names: the London Borough of Hammersmith and the London Borough of Barking changed their names after their creation to contain a second locality, to form the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham and the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham.\n\nThe Local Government Act 1985 abolished the Greater London Council and transferred its functions to the London borough councils, joint arrangements and to central government. The Inner London Education Authority continued to exist as a directly elected authority.\n\nThe Education Reform Act 1988 abolished the Inner London Education Authority and made the inner London boroughs education authorities.\n\nThe Greater London Authority Act 1999 created the Greater London Authority as a replacement for the Greater London Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "4515485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4515485", "title": "MSU Faculty of Geography", "text": "MSU Faculty of Geography\n\nMSU Faculty of Geography () is a faculty of Moscow State University, created in 1938 by order #109 dated 23 July 1938. It is the largest collective of geographers in the world: 780 researchers, 1100 students and 200 post-graduates are working at the facility.\n\nThere are 15 departments:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20923004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20923004", "title": "Madonna Falls", "text": "Madonna Falls\n\nThe Madonna Falls, is a waterfall believed to hold mana and have healing properties. The waterfall is located close to State Highway 4 about from the town of Mapiu.\n"}
{"id": "102607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102607", "title": "Minneapolis–Saint Paul", "text": "Minneapolis–Saint Paul\n\nMinneapolis–Saint Paul is a major metropolitan area built around the Mississippi, Minnesota and St. Croix rivers in east central Minnesota. The area is commonly known as the Twin Cities after its two largest cities, Minneapolis, the most populous city in the state, and Saint Paul, the state capital. It is an example of twin cities in the sense of geographical proximity. Minnesotans living outside of Minneapolis and Saint Paul often refer to the two together (or the seven-county metro area collectively) as \"The Cities\".\n\nThere are several different definitions of the region. Many refer to the \"Twin Cities\" as the seven-county region which is governed under the Metropolitan Council regional governmental agency and planning organization. The Office of Management and Budget officially designates 16 counties as the \"Minneapolis–St. Paul–Bloomington MN–WI Metropolitan Statistical Area\", the 16th largest in the United States. The entire region known as the \"Minneapolis–St. Paul MN–WI Combined Statistical Area\", has a population of 3,946,533, the 14th largest, according to 2017 Census estimates.\n\nDespite the Twin moniker, both cities are independent municipalities with defined borders. Minneapolis is somewhat younger with more modern skyscrapers downtown, while Saint Paul has been likened to an East Coast city, with quaint neighborhoods and a vast collection of well-preserved late-Victorian architecture.\n\nMinneapolis was influenced by its early Scandinavian and Lutheran heritage. St. Paul was influenced by its early French, Irish and German Catholic roots.\n\nThe Minneapolis–St. Paul metropolitan area, or The Cities, includes 16 counties, of which 14 are in Minnesota and two in Wisconsin.\n\nNote: Counties that are bolded are under jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Council. Numbers in parentheses are 2013 census estimates. Counties that are \"italicized\" were added to the metropolitan area when the Office of Management and Budget revised its delineations of metropolitan statistical areas in 2013.\nThere are approximately 218 incorporated municipalities within the Twin Cities metropolitan region. This includes census-designated places along with villages in Wisconsin, but excludes unincorporated towns in Wisconsin, known as civil townships in other states. \nEstimates are as of 2016 for cities with 25,000 or more inhabitants.\n\nPlaces with over 100,000 inhabitants (2017 estimates)\n\nPlaces with 50,000 to 99,999 inhabitants\n\nPlaces with 25,000 to 49,999 inhabitants\n\nPlaces with 10,000 to 24,999 inhabitants\n\nPlaces with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants \n\n\nThe Minneapolis–St. Paul, MN–WI Combined Statistical Area is made up of 19 counties in Minnesota and two counties in Wisconsin. The statistical area includes two metropolitan areas and three micropolitan areas. As of the 2010 Census, the CSA had a population of 3,684,928 (though a July 1, 2012 estimate placed the population at 3,691,918). The CSA definition encompasses of area.\n\n\nMinneapolis and St. Paul have competed since they were founded, resulting in some duplication of effort. After St. Paul completed its elaborate Cathedral in 1915, Minneapolis quickly followed up with the equally ornate Basilica of St. Mary in 1926. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries the rivalry became so intense that an architect practicing in one city was often refused business in the other. The 1890 United States Census even led to the two cities arresting and/or kidnapping each other's census takers, in an attempt to keep either city from outgrowing the other.\n\nThe rivalry could occasionally erupt into inter-city violence, as happened at a 1923 game between the Minneapolis Millers and the St. Paul Saints, both baseball teams of the American Association. In the 1950s, both cities competed for a major league baseball franchise (which resulted in two rival stadiums being built), and there was a brief period in the mid-1960s where the two cities could not agree on a common calendar for daylight saving time, resulting in a period of a few weeks where people in Minneapolis were one hour \"behind\" anyone living or traveling in St. Paul.\n\nThe cities' mutual antagonism was largely healed by the end of the 1960s, aided by the simultaneous arrival in 1961 of the Minnesota Twins of the American League and the Minnesota Vikings of the National Football League, both of which identified themselves with the state as a whole (the former explicitly named for both Twin Cities) and not with either of the major cities (unlike the earlier Minneapolis Lakers). Since 1961, it has been common practice for any major sports team based in the Twin Cities to be named for Minnesota as a whole. In terms of development, the two cities remain distinct in their progress, with Minneapolis absorbing new and avant-garde architecture while St. Paul continues to carefully integrate new buildings into the context of classical and Victorian styles.\n\nThe Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area fine art museums include the Minneapolis Institute of Art, the Walker Art Center, and the Frederick R. Weisman Art Museum. The Minnesota Orchestra and the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra are full-time professional musical ensembles. The Guthrie Theater moved into a new building in 2006 overlooking the Mississippi River. The Minnesota Fringe Festival is an annual celebration of theatre, dance, improvisation, puppetry, kids' shows, visual art, and musicals.\n\nThe Public Radio program \"A Prairie Home Companion\", hosted by Minnesota native Garrison Keillor aired live for many years from the Fitzgerald Theater in Saint Paul. The show ended its run in 2016, with its successor \"Live from Here\" also airing from the same venue.\n\nThere are numerous lakes in the region, and cities in the area have some very extensive park systems for recreation. Organized recreation includes the Great River Energy bicycle festival, the Twin Cities Marathon, and the U.S. pond hockey championships. Some studies have shown that area residents take advantage of this, and are among the most physically fit in the country, though others have disputed that. Nonetheless, medicine is a major industry in the region and the southeasterly city of Rochester, as the University of Minnesota has joined other colleges and hospitals in doing significant research, and major medical device manufacturers started in the region (the most prominent is Medtronic). Technical innovators have brought important advances in computing, including the Cray line of supercomputers.\n\nIt is common for residents of the Twin Cities area to own or share cabins and other properties along lakes and forested areas in the central and northern regions of the state, and weekend trips \"up North\" happen through the warmer months. Ice fishing is also a major pastime in the winter, although each year some overambitious fishermen find themselves in dangerous situations when they venture out onto the ice too early or too late. Hunting, snowmobiling, ATV riding and numerous other outdoor activities are also popular. This connectedness with the outdoors also brings a strong sense of environmentalism to many Minnesotans.\n\nIn 2011 and 2012, the American College of Sports Medicine named Minneapolis–Saint Paul the healthiest metropolitan area in America.\n\nApproximately 93.2% of the metropolitan area's population was native to the United States. Approximately 92.6% were born in the U.S. while 0.6% were born in Puerto Rico, a U.S. territory, or born abroad to American parents. The rest of the population (6.8%) were foreign-born.\n\nThe highest percentages of immigrants came from Asia (38.2%), Latin America (25.4%), and Africa (20.1%); smaller percentages of newcomers came from Europe (13.1%), other parts of North America (3.0%), and Oceania (0.2%).\n\nWith regards to ethnicity, the metropolitan area is predominantly white, with every county having at least 70% of its population coming from that background. However, the area is gradually becoming more diverse over time.\n\nMinneapolis–Saint Paul is also a major center for religion in the state, especially Christianity. The state headquarters of five major Christian churches are found here: the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Saint Paul and Minneapolis, the Episcopal Diocese of Minnesota, the Presbyterian Synod of Lakes and Prairies, and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). The Presbyterian and LDS churches both have missions in Saint Paul, Minneapolis, and Bloomington as well as the Orthodox Church in America.\n\nThe headquarters of the former American Lutheran Church (ALC), Evangelical Lutheran Church, Lutheran Free Church and the Augustana Evangelical Lutheran Church were located in Minneapolis; the headquarters of Augsburg Fortress publishing house still is. The Minneapolis Area Synod and the Saint Paul Area Synod are the first and third largest synods of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA), respectively.\n\nThe Evangelical Free Church of America has its headquarters in Bloomington, and the Association of Free Lutheran Congregations is headquartered in Plymouth, along with its seminary and a Bible School.\n\nThe Twin Cities are home to several synagogues serving the Jewish population, which is concentrated in the western Minneapolis suburbs of Golden Valley, St. Louis Park, Plymouth and Minnetonka. There is also a Hindu temple located in the Twin Cities suburb of Maple Grove. A recent influx of immigrants from Laos and Northern Africa has brought many more religions to the area. There are several Islamic Masjids in the area. There is a temple for the religion of Eckankar in the suburb of Chanhassen known as the Temple of Eck. In addition, many Hmong and Tibetan Buddhist peoples live in Saint Paul; a Hmong Buddhist temple opened in suburban Roseville in 1995. The LDS St. Paul Minnesota Temple opened in Oakdale, a suburb east of Saint Paul, in 2000. There are several very strong Unitarian Universalist communities such as the First Unitarian Society of Minneapolis, as well as several Pagan and Buddhist groups. The cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis have been called Paganistan due to the large numbers of Pagans living there. There are an estimated 20,000 Pagans living in the Twin Cities area.\n\nMinneapolis is where the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association started and was its home for more than fifty years.\n\nProfessional sports teams in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul MSA:\n\nThe Twin Cities is one of thirteen American metropolitan areas to have teams in all four major sports — MLB, NFL, NBA and NHL. Including Major League Soccer (MLS), it is one of ten metro areas to have five major sports. To avoid favoring either of the Twin Cities, most teams based in the area use only the word Minnesota in their name, rather than Minneapolis or St. Paul.\n\nMinneapolis was the site of two Super Bowls - Super Bowl XXVI in 1992 and Super Bowl LII in 2018. It was the farthest north that a Super Bowl has ever been played.\n\nThe World Series has been played in the Twin Cities three times - 1965, 1987 and 1991 as well as three MLB All-Star Games - 1965, 1985 and 2014. All-Star games in the NHL were hosted in 1972 and 2004, the NBA in 1994 and the WNBA in 2018.\n\nThe Stanley Cup Finals have been played in the Twin Cities twice - 1981 and 1991 as well as the NHL Stadium Series played host to a game in 2016.\n\nThe Final Four Men's NCAA basketball tournament has been hosted by Minneapolis four times - 1951, 1992, 2001 and 2019 and Women's one time - 1995. The women's tournament will return to Minneapolis in 2022.\n\nMajor golf tournaments hosted in the Twin Cities include - US Open - 1916, 1930, 1970, 1991; US Women's Open - 1966, 1977, 2008; PGA Championship - 1932, 1954, 2002, 2009; Walker Cup - 1957; Solheim Cup - 2002 and the Ryder Cup - 2016. The Ryder Cup is scheduled to return in 2028.\n\nThe 1998 World Figure Skating Championships was held at Target Center in Minneapolis.\n\nThe Twin Cities host three nationally competing Roller Derby leagues: The Minnesota RollerGirls of the Women's Flat Track Derby Association Division 1, the North Star Roller Girls of WFTDA Division 2, and Minnesota Men's Roller Derby, a league of the Men's Roller Derby Association. MNRG and NSRG possess four home teams each: the Dagger Dolls, Garda Belts, Rockits, and Atomic Bombshells of MNRG and the Banger Sisters, Delta Delta Di, Kilmore Girls and Violent Femmes of NSRG, as well as two traveling teams each. MMRD possesses three home teams: The Gentlemen's Club, Destruction Workers, and Thunderjacks, and two traveling teams.\n\nThe annual Twin Cities Marathon is held in the fall with a course running through Minneapolis and St. Paul. Minneapolis was the birthplace of Rollerblade and is a center for inline skating, as well as home to the most golfers per capita of any city in the U.S. Additionally, water skiing got its start on Lake Pepin, a short distance southeast of the metropolitan area.\n\nSome other sports teams gained their names from being in Minnesota before relocating. The Los Angeles Lakers get their name from once being based in Minneapolis, the City of Lakes. The Dallas Stars also derived their present name from their tenure as a Minnesota team, the Minnesota North Stars.\n\nThe 2008 Republican National Convention was held at the Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul. Minneapolis and St. Paul submitted combined bids to host the 2008 Democratic National Convention and the Republican National Convention. Minneapolis was host to the 1892 Republican National Convention.\n\nThe Minneapolis–Saint Paul area is home to 18 of Minnesota's 19 Fortune 500 headquarters - UnitedHealth Group, Target, Best Buy, CHS, 3M, US Bancorp, Supervalu, General Mills, Land O'Lakes, Ecolab, CH Robinson Worldwide, Ameriprise Financial, Xcel Energy, Thrivent Financial, Mosaic, Patterson, Securian Financial and Polaris. A number of private companies are also headquartered in the Twin Cities area, including Cargill, the country's largest private company, Carlson, Radisson Hotel Group, Mortenson, Holiday Stationstores, and Andersen. Foreign companies with U.S. headquarters in the Twin Cities include Aimia, Allianz, Canadian Pacific, Coloplast, Medtronic, Pearson VUE, Pentair and RBC.\n\nThe Twin Cities's economy is the 13th largest in the U.S. and ranks second in the Midwest. The Minneapolis–St. Paul area also ranks as the second largest medical device manufacture center in North America and the fourth-biggest U.S. banking center, based on total assets of banks headquartered in the metro area, ranking behind New York, San Francisco, and Charlotte, N.C. metropolitan areas.\n\nThe first European settlement in the region was near what is now known as the town of Stillwater, Minnesota. The city is approximately from downtown Saint Paul and lies on the western bank of the St. Croix River, which forms the border of central Minnesota and Wisconsin. Another settlement that began fueling early interest in the area was the outpost at Fort Snelling, which was constructed from 1820 to 1825 at the confluence of the Minnesota River and the Mississippi River.\n\nFort Snelling held jurisdiction over the land south of Saint Anthony Falls, thus a town known as Saint Anthony grew just north of the river. For several years, the only European resident to live on the south bank of the river was Colonel John H. Stevens, who operated a ferry service across the river. As soon as the land area controlled by Fort Snelling was reduced, new settlers began flocking across to the new village of Minneapolis. The town grew quickly, and Minneapolis and Saint Anthony eventually merged. On the eastern side of the Mississippi, a few villages such as Pig's Eye and Lambert's Landing developed and would soon grow to become Saint Paul.\nNatural geography played a role in the settlement and development of the two cities. The Mississippi River Valley in this area is defined by a series of stone bluffs that line both sides of the river. Saint Paul grew up around Lambert's Landing, the last place to unload boats coming upriver at an easily accessible point, some seven miles (11 km) downstream from Saint Anthony Falls, the geographic feature that, due to the value of its immense water power for industry, defined the location of Minneapolis and its prominence as the Mill City. The falls can be seen today from the Mill City Museum, housed in the former Washburn \"A\" Mill, which was among the world's largest mills in its time.\n\nThe oldest farms in the state are located in Washington County, the eastern most county on the Minnesota side of the metropolitan area. Joseph Haskell was Minnesota's first farmer, harvesting the first crops in the state in 1840 on what is now part of Afton Township on Trading Post Trail.\nThe Grand Excursion, a trip into the Upper Midwest sponsored by the Rock Island Railroad, brought more than a thousand curious travelers into the area by rail and steamboat in 1854. The next year, in 1855, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow published \"The Song of Hiawatha\", an epic poem based on the Ojibwe legends of Hiawatha. A number of natural area landmarks were included in the story, such as Lake Minnetonka and Minnehaha Falls. Tourists inspired by the coverage of the Grand Excursion in eastern newspapers and those who read Longfellow's story flocked to the area in the following decades.\n\nAt one time, the region also had numerous passenger rail services, including both interurban streetcar systems and interstate rail. Due to the width of the river at points further south, the Minneapolis–Saint Paul area was briefly one of the few places where the Mississippi could be crossed by railroad. A great amount of commercial rail traffic also ran through the area, often carrying grain to be processed at mills in Minneapolis or delivering other goods to Saint Paul to be transported along the Mississippi. Saint Paul had long been at the head of navigation on the river, prior to a new lock and dam facility being added upriver in Minneapolis.\n\nPassenger travel hit its peak in 1888 with nearly eight million traversing to and from the Saint Paul Union Depot. This amounted to approximately 150 trains daily. Before long, other rail crossings were built farther south and travel through the region began to decline. In an effort by the rail companies to combat the rise of the automobile, some of the earliest streamliners ran from Chicago to Minneapolis/Saint Paul and eventually served distant points in the Pacific Northwest. Today, the only vestige of this interstate service comes by Amtrak's \"Empire Builder\" train, running once daily in each direction. It is the railroad's busiest long-distance train and is named after James J. Hill, a railroad tycoon who settled on Summit Avenue in Saint Paul at what is now known as the James J. Hill House.\n\nLike many Northern cities that grew up with the Industrial Revolution, Minneapolis and St. Paul experienced shifts in their economic base as heavy industry declined, especially in the 1960s and 1970s. Along with the economic decline of the 60s and 70s came population decline in the central city areas, white flight to suburbs, and, in the summer of 1967, race riots on Minneapolis's North Side. By the 1980s and 1990s, however, Minneapolis and St. Paul were frequently cited as former Rust Belt cities that had made successful transitions to service, high-technology, finance, and information economies.\n\nAlong with much of Minnesota, the Twin Cities area was shaped by water and ice over the course of millions of years. The land of the area sits on top of thick layers of sandstone and limestone laid down as seas encroached upon and receded from the region. Erosion caused natural caves to develop, which were expanded into mines when white settlers came to the area. In the time of Prohibition, at least one speakeasy was built into these hidden spaces—eventually refurbished as the Wabasha Street Caves in Saint Paul.\n\nLakes across the area were formed and altered by the movement of glaciers. This left many bodies of water in the region, and unusual shapes may appear. For example, Lake Minnetonka out toward the western side of the Twin Cities consists of a complex arrangement of channels and large bays. Elevations in the metropolitan area range from above sea level in the northwest metro to at the edge of the Mississippi River in the southeast.\nBecause it is comparatively easy to dig through limestone and there are many natural and man-made open spaces, it has often been proposed that the area should examine the idea of building subways for public transportation. In theory, it could be less expensive in the Twin Cities than in many other places, but the cost would still be much greater than surface projects.\n\nOwing to its northerly latitude and inland location, the Twin Cities experience the coldest climate of any major metropolitan area in the United States. However, due to its southern location in the state and aided further by the urban heat island, the Twin Cities is one of the warmest locations in Minnesota. The average annual temperature at the Minneapolis–St. Paul International Airport is ; colder than Winona, Minnesota, and warmer than Roseau, Minnesota. Monthly average daily high temperatures range from in January to in July; the average daily minimum temperatures for the two months are and respectively.\nMinimum temperatures of or lower are seen on an average of 29.7 days per year, and 76.2 days do not have a maximum temperature exceeding the freezing point. Temperatures above occur an average of 15 times per year. High temperatures above have been common in recent years; the last occurring on July 6, 2012. The lowest temperature ever reported at the Minneapolis–St. Paul International Airport was on January 22, 1936; the highest, , was reported on July 14 of the same year. Early settlement records at Fort Snelling show temperatures as low as . Recent records include at Vadnais Lake on February 2, 1996 (National Climatic Data Center)\n\nPrecipitation averages per year, and is most plentiful in June () and February () the least so. The greatest one-day rainfall amount was , reported on July 23, 1987. The city's record for lowest annual precipitation was set in 1910, when fell throughout the year; coincidentally, the opposite record was set the following year, which observed a total . At an average of per year, snowfall is generally abundant (though some recent years have proved an exception).\n\nThe Twin Cities area takes the brunt of many types of extreme weather, including high-speed straight-line winds, tornadoes, flash floods, drought, heat, bitter cold, and blizzards. The costliest weather disaster in Twin Cities history was a derecho event on May 15, 1998. Hail and Wind damage exceeded $950 million, much of it in the Twin Cities. Other memorable Twin Cities weather-related events include the tornado outbreak on May 6, 1965, the Armistice Day Blizzard on November 11, 1940, and the Halloween Blizzard of 1991. In 2014, Minnesota experienced temperatures below those in areas of Mars when a polar vortex dropped temperatures as low as in Brimson and Babbitt with a windchill as low as in Grand Marais.\n\nA normal growing season in the metro extends from late April or early May through the month of October. The USDA places the area in the 4a plant hardiness zone.\n\nThe four tallest buildings in the area are located in downtown Minneapolis. Today there is some contention over exactly which building is the tallest—most Minnesotans would immediately think of the IDS Center if queried on the point, although most sources seem to agree that Capella Tower is slightly taller. But in early 2005, it was found that the IDS Center is taller by a washroom garage on top, which brings its total height to 792 feet (241 m). Capella Tower and the Wells Fargo Center only differ in height by a foot or two, a rather negligible amount.\n\nBuildings have gone up and been torn down rapidly across the region. Some city blocks have been demolished six or seven times since the mid-19th century, and will undoubtedly reach an eighth or ninth cycle in short order. No single architectural style dominates the region. Instead, the cities have a mish-mash of different designs, although structures from a few eras stand out. There were once a great many stone buildings constructed in the Richardsonian Romanesque style (or at least Romanesque-inspired variants). Minneapolis City Hall is one prominent example of this, though buildings of all types—including personal residences such as the James J. Hill House—were similarly designed. A few decades later, Art Deco brought several structures that survive today, including St. Paul City Hall, the Foshay Tower, and the Minneapolis Post Office. The style of buildings in the two cities varies greatly. In Minneapolis, the trend has been buildings with sleek lines and modern glass facades while St. Paul tends to follow a more traditional style of buildings so as to better accompany its older structures.\nSt. Paul and Minneapolis in particular went through some massive urban renewal projects in the post-World War II era, so a vast number of buildings are now lost to history. Some of the larger and harder to demolish structures have survived. In fact, the area might be signified more by bridges than buildings. A series of reinforced concrete arch spans crossing the Mississippi River were built in the 1920s and 1930s. They still carry daily traffic, but remain pleasing to the eye despite their age (a number have undergone major repair work, but retain the original design). Several of the bridges are listed on the National Register of Historic Places. They include the 10th Avenue Bridge, Intercity Bridge (Ford Parkway), Robert Street Bridge, and the longest, the 4119 ft (1255 m) Mendota Bridge next to Fort Snelling. The area is also noted for having the first known permanent crossing of the Mississippi. That structure is long gone, but a series of Hennepin Avenue Bridges have been built since then at the site. Both downtowns have extensive networks of enclosed pedestrian bridges known as skyways.\nSeveral prominent buildings in Minneapolis have helped modernize the city. These include the Walker Art Center, Central Public Library, Weisman Art Museum and the Guthrie Theater. Opened in April 2005, the new Walker Art Center, nearly double in size, includes increased indoor and outdoor facilities. The Walker is recognized internationally as a singular model of a multidisciplinary arts organization and as a national leader for its innovative approaches to audience engagement. The Guthrie received a large amount of media coverage for its opening in June, 2006. The design is the work of architect Jean Nouvel and is a 285,000 square foot (26,500 m²) facility that houses three theaters: (1) the theater's signature thrust stage, seating 1,100, (2) a 700-seat proscenium stage, and (3) a black-box studio with flexible seating. In 2002 the National Trust for Historic Preservation put the old Guthrie building on its list of the most endangered historic properties in the United States in response to plans announced by the Walker Art Center to expand on the land occupied by the theater. However, the original Guthrie building was torn down in 2006. These building projects have rejuvenated the downtown area.\n\nIn the 20th century, the Twin Cities area expanded outward significantly. Automobiles made it possible for suburbs to grow greatly. The area now has a number of freeways to transport people by car. The area incorporates a large number of traffic cameras and ramp meters to monitor and manage traffic congestion. There is some use of HOV (high-occupancy vehicle) express lanes, which is becoming much more common. In order to use an express lane, you need to own a MNPASS or have multiple people in the car. MNPASS rates are determined by the amount of traffic on the road and/or the time of day. During non-peak times, the MNPASS express lanes are open to all traffic.\n\nInterstate 94 comes into the area from the east and heads northwest from Minneapolis. Two spur routes form the I-494/I-694 loop, and I-394 continues west when I-94 turns north. Additionally, Interstate 35 splits in Burnsville in the southern part of the Twin Cities region, bringing I-35E into St. Paul and I-35W into Minneapolis. They join together again to the north in Columbus, (just south of Forest Lake) and continue to the highway's terminus in Duluth. This is one of only two examples of an Interstate highway splitting off into branches and then rejoining into one again; the other split occurs in Dallas-Fort Worth, where I-35 splits into I-35E for motorists going to Dallas and I-35W for traffic heading into Fort Worth.\n\nOn Wednesday, August 1, 2007, a large portion of the I-35W Mississippi River bridge near University Avenue in the city of Minneapolis collapsed into the Mississippi River around 6:05pm CDT. A replacement bridge opened on Thursday, September 18, 2008.\n\n\n\nThe main airport in the region is Minneapolis–Saint Paul International Airport (MSP), which is a major hub for Delta Air Lines. The airport is also the main hub and operating base for Sun Country Airlines. There are six smaller (relief) airports in the area which are owned and operated by the Metropolitan Airports Commission (the same agency operates the main MSP airport). Some people even commute by air to the Twin Cities from the northern part of the state.\n\nDomestic-only carriers from MSP:\n\nDomestic and international carriers from MSP:\n\nForeign-based international carriers from MSP:\nRelief airports in the metropolitan area are:\n\n\nMetro Transit, by far the biggest bus service provider in the area, owes its existence to the old streetcar lines that ran in the area. Metro Transit provides about 95% of the public transit rides in the region with over 900 buses, although some suburbs have other bus services. The University of Minnesota, Twin Cities operates a free bus system between its campuses. This system includes the Campus Connector Bus Rapid Transit line which travels between the Minneapolis and St. Paul Campuses by a dedicated bus line, and throughout the two campuses on normal access roads. The METRO Blue Line LRT (light rail) began operations in June 2004, connecting downtown Minneapolis, Minneapolis–St. Paul International Airport and the Mall of America in Bloomington. It was followed by the METRO Red Line BRT (bus rapid transitway) in 2013 connecting the Mall of America with Lakeville along Cedar Avenue through the southern suburbs. The METRO Green Line LRT connecting downtown Minneapolis, the University of Minnesota campus and downtown St. Paul along University Avenue opened in June 2014. All three lines are operated by Metro Transit. Additionally, the Northstar Line commuter rail line connecting Minneapolis with Big Lake opened in November 2009; the line may be extended to St. Cloud as ridership numbers warrant.\n\nIn many ways the light rail of today is a return to the streetcars that existed in the past, it is being used as a stepping-stone to other projects.\n\nA variety of rail services are currently being pondered by state and local governments, including neighborhood streetcar systems, intercity light rail service, and commuter rail options out to exurban regions. In addition, Minnesota is one of several states in the Midwest examining the idea of setting up high-speed rail service using Chicago as a regional hub.\n\nThe Minneapolis–St. Paul area has been criticized for inadequate public transportation. Compared to many other cities its size, the public transportation system in the Minneapolis–St. Paul area is less robust. As the metropolitan area has grown, the roads and highways have been updated and widened, but traffic volume is growing faster than the projects needed to widen them, and public transportation has not expanded enough to commensurate with the population. The Minneapolis–St. Paul metropolitan area is ranked as the fifth worst for congestion growth of similar-sized U.S. metropolitan areas. \nAdditional lines and spurs are needed to upgrade public transportation in the Twin Cities. Plans are underway for Green Line extension connecting downtown Minneapolis to the southwest suburb of Eden Prairie. A northwest LRT (Blue Line extension) along Bottineau Boulevard is being planned from downtown Minneapolis to Brooklyn Park. The METRO Orange Line BRT will open in 2019, connecting downtown Minneapolis with Lakeville to the south along I-35W. The METRO Gold Line BRT is planned to connect downtown St. Paul to the eastern suburbs within the next few years.\n\nThe Twin Cities have two major daily newspapers: the \"Star Tribune\" and the \"Saint Paul Pioneer Press\". Additionally, the \"Minnesota Daily\" serves the University of Minnesota's Twin Cities campus and surrounding neighborhoods. There is one general-interest neighborhood weekly newspaper still in the cities: The \"East Side Review\", devoted to the 90,000 residents in the eastern third of St. Paul. Other weekly papers are devoted to specific audiences/demographics including City Pages.\n\nThe region is currently ranked as the 15th largest television market according to Nielson Media Research. Three duopolies exist in the Twin Cities: Twin Cities PBS operates both KTCA and KTCI, Hubbard Broadcasting (built by Stanley E. Hubbard) owns both ABC affiliate KSTP-TV and independent station KSTC-TV, and Fox Television Stations operates both Fox owned-and-operated station KMSP-TV and MyNetworkTV O&O WFTC. Diversified from radio, KSTP-TV became the first television channel to air in the region with a show reaching 3,000 television sets in 1948, and the 17th station to broadcast in the U.S.\nThe only station with its main studios in Minneapolis is CBS O&O WCCO, while St. Paul is host to KSTP/KSTC, KTCA/KTCI, and CW affiliate WUCW. NBC affiliate KARE has a sprawling broadcasting complex in west suburban Golden Valley. KMSP is located in southwest suburban Eden Prairie. Other stations are located in the suburbs. For much of the last two decades, WCCO and KARE have shared in having the most popular evening newscasts of the area channels. On the other end, KSTP has struggled to maintain ratings on its news programs. KMSP has had a 9 o'clock newscast since at least the early 1990s when it was an independent channel.\n\nCommunities in the region have their own Public, educational, and government access (PEG) cable television channels. One channel, the Metro Cable Network, is available on channel 6 on cable systems across the seven-county region.\n\nSeveral television programs originating in the Twin Cities have been aired nationally on terrestrial and cable TV networks. KTCA created the science program \"Newton's Apple\" and distributes a children's program today. A few unusual comedic shows also originated in the area. In the 1980s, KTMA (predecessor to WUCW) created a number of low-budget shows, including cult classic \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\". The short-lived \"Let's Bowl\" started on KARE, and PBS series \"Mental Engineering\" originated on the St. Paul cable access network.\n\nThe radio market in the Twin Cities is considered to be somewhat smaller than for TV, ranked 16th. For decades, WCCO radio was the most well-known broadcaster in the region, with an all-day talk format. WCCO was eventually pushed out of the top spot by KQRS-FM, a classic rock station with a popular morning show.\nKSTP also has some fairly well known radio stations, with pop music format on FM and ESPN Radio on AM. KSTP-AM and FM are owned by Hubbard Broadcasting. In 1985, Hubbard – valued at $400 million – was one of the larger corporate media companies in the United States; in 2005, valued at US $1.2 billion, Hubbard is a fairly small major-market media operation.\n\nThe Twin Cities have a peculiar mix of commercial and non-commercial radio. The city's market is dominated by iHeartRadio which operates seven stations, but two small independent stations are award winners—KUOM operated by the University of Minnesota and KFAI public access radio in Cedar Riverside.\n\nMinnesota Public Radio (MPR) is also a major player in the state and across the country, best known across the U.S. for the variety show \"A Prairie Home Companion\". Doing business under the name American Public Media, the company is the second largest producer of National Public Radio content, behind National Public Radio (of which MPR is an affiliate).\nThe Current is an affiliate of MPR, as well, and it is member supported.\n\nThe Twin Cities is also home to many independent media organizations, including The UpTake, \"MinnPost\" and \"Twin Cities Daily Planet\".\n\nThe United States Navy currently has one ship named for the region, , a launched in 1983. Previously, two sets of two ships each had carried the names and .\n\n"}
{"id": "35319154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35319154", "title": "Occupational safety and health", "text": "Occupational safety and health\n\nOccupational safety and health (OSH), also commonly referred to as occupational health and safety (OHS), occupational health, or workplace health and safety (WHS), is a multidisciplinary field concerned with the safety, health, and welfare of people at work. These terms also refer to the goals of this field, so their use in the sense of this article was originally an abbreviation of \"occupational safety and health program/department\" etc.\n\nThe goals of occupational safety and health programs include to foster a safe and healthy work environment. OSH may also protect co-workers, family members, employers, customers, and many others who might be affected by the workplace environment. In the United States, the term occupational health and safety is referred to as occupational health and occupational and non-occupational safety and includes safety for activities outside of work.\n\nIn common-law jurisdictions, employers have a common law duty to take reasonable care of the safety of their employees. Statute law may in addition impose other general duties, introduce specific duties, and create government bodies with powers to regulate workplace safety issues: details of this vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.\n\nAs defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) \"occupational health deals with all aspects of health and safety in the workplace and has a strong focus on primary prevention of hazards.\" Health has been defined as \"a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.\" Occupational health is a multidisciplinary field of healthcare concerned with enabling an individual to undertake their occupation, in the way that causes least harm to their health. Health has been defined as It contrasts, for example, with the promotion of health and safety at work, which is concerned with preventing harm from any incidental hazards, arising in the workplace.\n\nSince 1950, the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the World Health Organization (WHO) have shared a common definition of occupational health. It was adopted by the Joint ILO/WHO Committee on Occupational Health at its first session in 1950 and revised at its twelfth session in 1995. The definition reads:\n\nThose in the field of occupational health come from a wide range of disciplines and professions including medicine, psychology, epidemiology, physiotherapy and rehabilitation, occupational therapy, occupational medicine, human factors and ergonomics, and many others. Professionals advise on a broad range of occupational health matters. These include how to avoid particular pre-existing conditions causing a problem in the occupation, correct posture for the work, frequency of rest breaks, preventative action that can be undertaken, and so forth.\n\n\"Occupational health should aim at: the promotion and maintenance of the highest degree of physical, mental and social well-being of workers in all occupations; the prevention amongst workers of departures from health caused by their working conditions; the protection of workers in their employment from risks resulting from factors adverse to health; the placing and maintenance of the worker in an occupational environment adapted to his physiological and psychological capabilities; and, to summarize, the adaptation of work to man and of each man to his job.\n\nThe research and regulation of occupational safety and health are a relatively recent phenomenon. As labor movements arose in response to worker concerns in the wake of the industrial revolution, worker's health entered consideration as a labor-related issue.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Factory Acts of the early nineteenth century (from 1802 onwards) arose out of concerns about the poor health of children working in cotton mills: the Act of 1833 created a dedicated professional Factory Inspectorate. The initial remit of the Inspectorate was to police restrictions on the working hours in the textile industry of children and young persons (introduced to prevent chronic overwork, identified as leading directly to ill-health and deformation, and indirectly to a high accident rate). However, on the urging of the Factory Inspectorate, a further Act in 1844 giving similar restrictions on working hours for women in the textile industry introduced a requirement for machinery guarding (but only in the textile industry, and only in areas that might be accessed by women or children). \n\nIn 1840 a Royal Commission published its findings on the state of conditions for the workers of the mining industry that documented the appallingly dangerous environment that they had to work in and the high frequency of accidents. The commission sparked public outrage which resulted in the Mines Act of 1842. The act set up an inspectorate for mines and collieries which resulted in many prosecutions and safety improvements, and by 1850, inspectors were able to enter and inspect premises at their discretion.\n\nOtto von Bismarck inaugurated the first social insurance legislation in 1883 and the first worker's compensation law in 1884 – the first of their kind in the Western world. Similar acts followed in other countries, partly in response to labor unrest.\n\nAlthough work provides many economic and other benefits, a wide array of workplace hazards also present risks to the health and safety of people at work. These include but are not limited to, \"chemicals, biological agents, physical factors, adverse ergonomic conditions, allergens, a complex network of safety risks,\" and a broad range of psychosocial risk factors. Personal protective equipment can help protect against many of these hazards.\n\nPhysical hazards affect many people in the workplace. Occupational hearing loss is the most common work-related injury in the United States, with 22 million workers exposed to hazardous noise levels at work and an estimated $242 million spent annually on worker's compensation for hearing loss disability. Falls are also a common cause of occupational injuries and fatalities, especially in construction, extraction, transportation, healthcare, and building cleaning and maintenance. Machines have moving parts, sharp edges, hot surfaces and other hazards with the potential to crush, burn, cut, shear, stab or otherwise strike or wound workers if used unsafely.\n\nBiological hazards (biohazards) include infectious microorganisms such as viruses and toxins produced by those organisms such as anthrax. Biohazards affect workers in many industries; influenza, for example, affects a broad population of workers. Outdoor workers, including farmers, landscapers, and construction workers, risk exposure to numerous biohazards, including animal bites and stings, urushiol from poisonous plants, and diseases transmitted through animals such as the West Nile virus and Lyme disease. Health care workers, including veterinary health workers, risk exposure to blood-borne pathogens and various infectious diseases, especially those that are emerging.\n\nDangerous chemicals can pose a chemical hazard in the workplace. There are many classifications of hazardous chemicals, including neurotoxins, immune agents, dermatologic agents, carcinogens, reproductive toxins, systemic toxins, asthmagens, pneumoconiotic agents, and sensitizers. Authorities such as regulatory agencies set occupational exposure limits to mitigate the risk of chemical hazards. An international effort is investigating the health effects of mixtures of chemicals. There is some evidence that certain chemicals are harmful at lower levels when mixed with one or more other chemicals. This may be particularly important in causing cancer.\n\nPsychosocial hazards include risks to the mental and emotional well-being of workers, such as feelings of job insecurity, long work hours, and poor work-life balance. A recent Cochrane review - using moderate quality evidence - related that the addition of work-directed interventions for depressed workers receiving clinical interventions reduces the number of lost work days as compared to clinical interventions alone. This review also demonstrated that the addition of cognitive behavioral therapy to primary or occupational care and the addition of a \"structured telephone outreach and care management program\" to usual care are both effective at reducing sick leave days.\n\nSpecific occupational safety and health risk factors vary depending on the specific sector and industry. Construction workers might be particularly at risk of falls, for instance, whereas fishermen might be particularly at risk of drowning. The United States Bureau of Labor Statistics identifies the fishing, aviation, lumber, metalworking, agriculture, mining and transportation industries as among some of the more dangerous for workers. Similarly psychosocial risks such as workplace violence are more pronounced for certain occupational groups such as health care employees, police, correctional officers and teachers.\n\nConstruction is one of the most dangerous occupations in the world, incurring more occupational fatalities than any other sector in both the United States and in the European Union. In 2009, the fatal occupational injury rate among construction workers in the United States was nearly three times that for all workers. Falls are one of the most common causes of fatal and non-fatal injuries among construction workers. Proper safety equipment such as harnesses and guardrails and procedures such as securing ladders and inspecting scaffolding can curtail the risk of occupational injuries in the construction industry. Due to the fact that accidents may have disastrous consequences for employees as well as organizations, it is of utmost importance to ensure health and safety of workers and compliance with HSE construction requirements. Health and safety legislation in the construction industry involves many rules and regulations. For example, the role of the Construction Design Management (CDM) Coordinator as a requirement has been aimed at improving health and safety on-site.\n\nThe 2010 National Health Interview Survey Occupational Health Supplement (NHIS-OHS) identified work organization factors and occupational psychosocial and chemical/physical exposures which may increase some health risks. Among all U.S. workers in the construction sector, 44% had non-standard work arrangements (were not regular permanent employees) compared to 19% of all U.S. workers, 15% had temporary employment compared to 7% of all U.S. workers, and 55% experienced job insecurity compared to 32% of all U.S. workers. Prevalence rates for exposure to physical/chemical hazards were especially high for the construction sector. Among nonsmoking workers, 24% of construction workers were exposed to secondhand smoke while only 10% of all U.S. workers were exposed. Other physical/chemical hazards with high prevalence rates in the construction industry were frequently working outdoors (73%) and frequent exposure to vapors, gas, dust, or fumes (51%).\n\nAgriculture workers are often at risk of work-related injuries, lung disease, noise-induced hearing loss, skin disease, as well as certain cancers related to chemical use or prolonged sun exposure. On industrialized farms, injuries frequently involve the use of agricultural machinery. The most common cause of fatal agricultural injuries in the United States is tractor rollovers, which can be prevented by the use of roll over protection structures which limit the risk of injury in case a tractor rolls over. Pesticides and other chemicals used in farming can also be hazardous to worker health, and workers exposed to pesticides may experience illnesses or birth defects. As an industry in which families, including children, commonly work alongside their families, agriculture is a common source of occupational injuries and illnesses among younger workers. Common causes of fatal injuries among young farm worker include drowning, machinery and motor vehicle-related accidents.\n\nThe 2010 NHIS-OHS found elevated prevalence rates of several occupational exposures in the agriculture, forestry, and fishing sector which may negatively impact health. These workers often worked long hours. The prevalence rate of working more than 48 hours a week among workers employed in these industries was 37%, and 24% worked more than 60 hours a week. Of all workers in these industries, 85% frequently worked outdoors compared to 25% of all U.S. workers. Additionally, 53% were frequently exposed to vapors, gas, dust, or fumes, compared to 25% of all U.S. workers.\n\nAs the number of service sector jobs has risen in developed countries, more and more jobs have become sedentary, presenting a different array of health problems than those associated with manufacturing and the primary sector. Contemporary problems such as the growing rate of obesity and issues relating to occupational stress, workplace bullying, and overwork in many countries have further complicated the interaction between work and health.\n\nAccording to data from the 2010 NHIS-OHS, hazardous physical/chemical exposures in the service sector were lower than national averages. On the other hand, potentially harmful work organization characteristics and psychosocial workplace exposures were relatively common in this sector. Among all workers in the service industry, 30% experienced job insecurity in 2010, 27% worked non-standard shifts (not a regular day shift), 21% had non-standard work arrangements (were not regular permanent employees).\n\nDue to the manual labour involved and on a per employee basis, the US Postal Service, UPS and FedEx are the 4th, 5th and 7th most dangerous companies to work for in the US.\n\nAccording to data from the 2010 NHIS-OHS, workers employed in mining and oil and gas extraction industries had high prevalence rates of exposure to potentially harmful work organization characteristics and hazardous chemicals. Many of these workers worked long hours: 50% worked more than 48 hours a week and 25% worked more than 60 hours a week in 2010. Additionally, 42% worked non-standard shifts (not a regular day shift). These workers also had high prevalence of exposure to physical/chemical hazards. In 2010, 39% had frequent skin contact with chemicals. Among nonsmoking workers, 28% of those in mining and oil and gas extraction industries had frequent exposure to secondhand smoke at work. About two-thirds were frequently exposed to vapors, gas, dust, or fumes at work.\n\nHealthcare workers are exposed to many hazards that can adversely affect their health and well-being. Long hours, changing shifts, physically demanding tasks, violence, and exposures to infectious diseases and harmful chemicals are examples of hazards that put these workers at risk for illness and injury.\n\nAccording to the Bureau of Labor statistics, U.S. hospitals recorded 253,700 work-related injuries and illnesses in 2011, which is 6.8 work-related injuries and illnesses for every 100 full-time employees. The injury and illness rate in hospitals is higher than the rates in construction and manufacturing – two industries that are traditionally thought to be relatively hazardous.\n\nThe Occupational Health Safety Network (OHSN) is a secure electronic surveillance system developed by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) to address health and safety risks among health care personnel. OHSN uses existing data to characterize risk of injury and illness among health care workers. Hospitals and other healthcare facilities can upload the occupational injury data they already collect to the secure database for analysis and benchmarking with other de-identified facilities. NIOSH works with OHSN participants in identifying and implementing timely and targeted interventions. OHSN modules currently focus on three high risk and preventable events that can lead to injuries or musculoskeletal disorders among healthcare personnel: musculoskeletal injuries from patient handling activities; slips, trips, and falls; and workplace violence. OHSN enrollment is open to all healthcare facilities.\n\nThe Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor compiles information about workplace fatalities and non-fatal injuries in the United States. In 1970, an estimated 14,000 workers were killed on the job – by 2010, the workforce had doubled, but workplace deaths were down to about 4,500.<br> Between 1913 and 2013, workplace fatalities dropped by approximately 80%.\n\nThe Bureau also compiles information about the most dangerous jobs. According to the census of occupational injuries 4,679 people died on the job in 2014. In 2015, a decline in nonfatal workplace injuries and illnesses was observed, with private industry employers reporting approximately 2.9 million incidents, nearly 48,000 fewer cases than in 2014. The Bureau also uses tools like www.AgInjuryNews.org to identify and compile additional sources of fatality reports for their datasets.\n\nMusculoskeletal injuries accounted for 32% of all employer-reported injuries and illnesses in 2014.\n\nIn most countries males comprise the vast majority of workplace fatalities. In the EU as a whole, 94% of death were of males. In the UK the disparity was even greater with males comprising 97.4% of workplace deaths. In the UK there were 171 fatal injuries at work in financial year 2011–2012, compared with 651 in calendar year 1974; the fatal injury rate declined over that period from 2.9 fatalities per 100,000 workers to 0.6 per 100,000 workers\n\nOne of the decisions taken by Communists during the reign of Stalin was the reduction in the number of accidents and occupational diseases to zero. The tendency to decline remained in the RF in the early 21st century, and the same methods of falsification are used, so that the real occupational morbidity and the number of accidents are unknown.\n\nAfter the destruction of the USSR, the enterprises became owned by new owners who were not interested in preserving the life and health of workers. They did not spend money on equipment modernization, and the share of harmful workplaces increased. The state did not interfere in this, and sometimes it helped employers. At first, the process of growth was slow - due to the fact that in the 1990s this was compensated by mass de-industrialization (factories with foundries and other harmful types of production were closed). In the 2000s, this method of restraining the growth of the share of harmful workplaces was exhausted. Therefore, in 2010s the Ministry of Labor adopted the Federal law 426-FZ, which equated the issuance of personal protective equipment to the employee to real improvement of working conditions; and the Ministry of Health made significant changes in the methods of risk assessment in the workplace. This explains the \"decline\" in the proportion of workers working in harmful conditions after 2014 - it happened not in practice, but only on paper.\n\nNational management system standards for occupational health and safety include AS/NZS 4801-2001 for Australia and New Zealand, CAN/CSA-Z1000-14 for Canada and ANSI/ASSE Z10-2012 for the United States. Association Française de Normalisation (AFNOR) in France also developed occupational safety and health management standards. In the United Kingdom, non-departmental public body Health and Safety Executive published Managing for health and safety (MFHS), an online guidance. In Germany, the state factory inspectorates of Bavaria and Saxony had introduced the management system OHRIS. In the Netherlands, the management system Safety Certificate Contractors combines management of occupational health and safety and the environment.\n\nISO 45001 was published in March 2018.\n\nPreviously, the International Labour Organization (ILO) published ILO-OSH 2001, also titled \"Guidelines on occupational safety and health management systems\" to assist organizations with introducing OSH management systems. These guidelines encourage continual improvement in employee health and safety, achieved via a constant process of policy, organization, planning & implementation, evaluation, and action for improvement, all supported by constant auditing to determine the success of OSH actions. From 1999 to 2018, the occupational health and safety management system standard OHSAS 18001 was adopted as a British and Polish standard and widely used internationally. OHSAS 18000 comprised two parts, OHSAS 18001 and 18002 and was developed by a selection of leading trade bodies, international standards and certification bodies to address a gap where no third-party certifiable international standard existed. It was intended to integrate with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001.\n\nOccupational safety and health practice vary among nations with different approaches to legislation, regulation, enforcement, and incentives for compliance. In the EU, for example, some member states promote OSH by providing public monies as subsidies, grants or financing, while others have created tax system incentives for OSH investments. A third group of EU member states has experimented with using workplace accident insurance premium discounts for companies or organisations with strong OSH records.\n\nIn Australia, the Commonwealth, four of the six states and both territories have enacted and administer harmonised Work Health and Safety Legislation in accordance with the \"Intergovernmental Agreement for Regulatory and Operational Reform in Occupational Health and Safety\". Each of these jurisdictions has enacted Work Health & Safety legislation and regulations based on the Commonwealth Work Health and Safety Act 2011 and common Codes of Practice developed by Safe Work Australia. Some jurisdictions have also included mine safety under the model approach, however, most have retained separate legislation for the time being. Western Australia intends to adopt a moderated version of the model approach and Victoria has retained its own regime, although the Model WHS laws themselves drew heavily on the Victoria approach.\n\nIn Canada, workers are covered by provincial or federal labour codes depending on the sector in which they work. Workers covered by federal legislation (including those in mining, transportation, and federal employment) are covered by the Canada Labour Code; all other workers are covered by the health and safety legislation of the province in which they work. The Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety (CCOHS), an agency of the Government of Canada, was created in 1966 by an Act of Parliament. The act was based on the belief that all Canadians had \"...a fundamental right to a healthy and safe working environment.\" CCOHS is mandated to promote safe and healthy workplaces to help prevent work-related injuries and illnesses. The CCOHS maintains a useful (partial) list of OSH regulations for Canada and its provinces.\n\nIn the European Union, member states have enforcing authorities to ensure that the basic legal requirements relating to occupational health and safety are met. In many EU countries, there is strong cooperation between employer and worker organisations (e.g. unions) to ensure good OSH performance as it is recognized this has benefits for both the worker (through maintenance of health) and the enterprise (through improved productivity and quality). In 1996, the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work was founded.\n\nMember states of the European Union have all transposed into their national legislation a series of directives that establish minimum standards on occupational health and safety. These directives (of which there are about 20 on a variety of topics) follow a similar structure requiring the employer to assess the workplace risks and put in place preventive measures based on a hierarchy of control. This hierarchy starts with elimination of the hazard and ends with personal protective equipment.\n\nHowever, certain EU member states admit to having lacking quality control in occupational safety services, to situations in which risk analysis takes place without any on-site workplace visits and to insufficient implementation of certain EU OSH directives. Based on this, it is hardly surprising that the total societal costs of work-related health problems and accidents vary from 2.6% to 3.8% of GNP between the EU member states.\n\nIn Denmark, occupational safety and health is regulated by the Danish Act on Working Environment and cooperation at the workplace. The Danish Working Environment Authority carries out inspections of companies, draws up more detailed rules on health and safety at work and provides information on health and safety at work. The result of each inspection is made public on the web pages of the Danish Working Environment Authority so that the general public, current and prospective employees, customers and other stakeholders can inform themselves about whether a given organization has passed the inspection, should they wish to do so.\n\nIn Spain, occupational safety and health is regulated by the Spanish Act on Prevention of Labour Risks. The Ministry of Employment and Social Security is the authority responsible for issues relating to labour environment. The National Institute for Labour Safety and Hygiene is the technical public Organization specialized in occupational safety and health.\n\nIn Sweden, occupational safety and health is regulated by the Work Environment Act. The Swedish Work Environment Authority is the government agency responsible for issues relating to the working environment. The agency should work to disseminate information and furnish advice on OSH, has a mandate to carry out inspections, and a right to issue stipulations and injunctions to any non-compliant employer.\n\nIn the UK, health and safety legislation is drawn up and enforced by the Health and Safety Executive and local authorities (the local council) under the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 (HASAWA). HASAWA introduced (section 2) a general duty on an employer to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the health, safety and welfare at work of all his employees; with the intention of giving a legal framework supporting 'codes of practice' not in themselves having legal force but establishing a strong presumption as to what was reasonably practicable (deviations from them could be justified by appropriate risk assessment). The previous reliance on detailed prescriptive rule-setting was seen as having failed to respond rapidly enough to technological change, leaving new technologies potentially un-regulated or inappropriately regulated. HSE has continued to make some regulations giving absolute duties (where something must be done with no 'reasonable practicability' test) but in the UK the regulatory trend is away from prescriptive rules, and towards 'goal setting' and risk assessment. Recent major changes to the laws governing asbestos and fire safety management embrace the concept of risk assessment. The other key aspect of the UK legislation is a statutory mechanism for worker involvement through elected health and safety representatives and health and safety committees. This followed a similar approach in Scandinavia, and that approach has since been adopted in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Malaysia, for example.\n\nFor the UK, the government organisation dealing with occupational health has been the Employment Medical Advisory Service but in 2014 a new occupational health organisation - the Health and Work Service - was created to provide advice and assistance to employers in order to get back to work employees on long-term sick-leave. The service, funded by government, will offer medical assessments and treatment plans, on a voluntary basis, to people on long-term absence from their employer; in return, the government will no longer foot the bill for Statutory Sick Pay provided by the employer to the individual.\n\nIn India, the Labour Ministry formulates national policies on occupational safety and health in factories and docks with advice and assistance from Directorate General of Factory Advice Service and Labour Institutes (DGFASLI), and enforces its Policies through inspectorates of factories and inspectorates of dock safety. DGFASLI is the technical arm of the Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India and advises the factories on various problems concerning safety, health, efficiency and well - being of the persons at work places. The DGFASLI provides technical support in formulating rules, conducting occupational safety surveys and also for conducting occupational safety training programs.\n\nIn Indonesia, the Ministry of Manpower is responsible to ensure the safety, health and welfare of workers while working, in a factory, or even the area surrounding the factory where labourers work. There are a few rules that control the safety of workers, for example Occupational Safety Act 1970 or Occupational Health Act 1992. The sanctions, however, are still low and the violations of these laws are still at a high rate - with a maximum of 15 million rupiahs fine and/or a maximum of 1 year in prison.\n\nIn Malaysia, the Department of Occupational Safety and Health (DOSH) under the Ministry of Human Resource is responsible to ensure that the safety, health and welfare of workers in both the public and private sector is upheld. DOSH is responsible to enforce the Factories and Machinery Act 1967 and the Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994.\n\nIn the People's Republic of China, the Ministry of Health is responsible for occupational disease prevention and the State Administration of Work Safety for safety issues at work. On the provincial and municipal level, there are Health Supervisions for occupational health and local bureaus of Work Safety for safety. The \"Occupational Disease Control Act of PRC\" came into force on May 1, 2002. and Work safety Act of PRC on November 1, 2002. The Occupational Disease Control Act is under revision. The prevention of occupational disease is still in its initial stage compared with industrialised countries such as the US or UK.\n\nIn Singapore, the Ministry of Manpower operates various checks and campaigns against unsafe work practices, such as when working at height, operating cranes and in traffic management. Examples include Operation Cormorant and the Falls Prevention Campaign.\n\nIn South Africa the Department of Labour is responsible for occupational health and safety inspection and enforcement in commerce and industry apart from mining and energy production, where the Department of Mineral Resources is responsible.\n\nThe main statutory legislation on Health and Safety in the jurisdiction of the Department of Labour is \"Act No. 85 of 1993: Occupational Health and Safety Act as amended by Occupational Health and Safety Amendment Act, No. 181 Of 1993.\"\n\nRegulations to the OHS Act include:\n\nIn Taiwan, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the Ministry of Labor is in charge of occupational safety and health. The matter is governed under the Occupational Safety and Health Act.\n\n2007, official release the document TOSHMS (Taiwan Occupational Safety and Health Management System), which defined the basic rule about occupational safety standard.\nOSHAD was introduced in February 2010 to regulate the implementation of occupational health and safety in the emirates of Abu Dhabi.\n\nIn the United States, President Richard Nixon signed the Occupational Safety and Health Act into law on December 29, 1970. The act created the three agencies that administer it. They include the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, and the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission. The act authorized the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to regulate private employers in the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and territories. The Act establishing it includes a general duty clause (29 U.S.C. § 654, 5(a)) requiring an employer to comply with the Act and regulations derived from it, and to provide employees with \"employment and a place of employment which are free from recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to cause death or serious physical harm to his employees.\"\n\nOSHA was established in 1971 under the Department of Labor. It has headquarters in Washington, DC and ten regional offices, further broken down into districts, each organized into three sections; compliance, training, and assistance. Its stated mission is \"to assure safe and healthful working conditions for working men and women by setting and enforcing standards and by providing training, outreach, education and assistance.\" The original plan was for OSHA to oversee 50 state plans with OSHA funding 50% of each plan. Unfortunately it has not worked out that way. \nThere are currently 26 approved state plans (4 cover only public employees) and no other states want to participate. OSHA manages the plan in the states not participating.\n\nOSHA develops safety standards in the Code of Federal Regulation and enforces those safety standards through compliance inspections conducted by Compliance Officers; enforcement resources are focussed on high-hazard industries. Worksites may apply to enter OSHA's Voluntary Protection Program (VPP); a successful application leads to an on-site inspection ; if this is passed the site gains VPP status and OSHA no longer inspect it annually nor (normally) visit it unless there is a fatal accident or an employee complaint until VPP revalidation (after 3–5 years)(VPP sites have injury and illness rates less than half the average for their industry).\n\nIt has 73 specialists in local offices to provide tailored information and training to employers and employees at little or no cost Similarly OSHA produces a range of publications, provides advice to employers and funds consultation services available for small businesses.\n\nOSHA's Alliance Program enables groups committed to worker safety and health to work with it to develop compliance assistance tools and resources, share information with workers and employers, and educate them about their rights and responsibilities. OSHA also has a Strategic Partnership Program that zeros in on specific hazards or specific geographic areas.\nOSHA manages Susan B. Harwood grants to nonprofit companies to train workers and employers to recognize, avoid, and prevent safety and health hazards in the workplace. Grants focus on small business, hard-to-reach workers and high-hazard industries.\n\nThe National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, created under the same act, works closely with OSHA and provides the research behind many of OSHA's regulations and standards.\n\nThe roles and responsibilities of OSH professionals vary regionally, but may include evaluating working environments, developing, endorsing and encouraging measures that might prevent injuries and illnesses, providing OSH information to employers, employees, and the public, providing medical examinations, and assessing the success of worker health programs.\n\nIn Norway, the main required tasks of an occupational health and safety practitioner include the following:\n\nIn the Netherlands, the required tasks for health and safety staff are only summarily defined and include the following:\n\n‘The main influence of the Dutch law on the job of the safety professional is through the requirement on each employer to use the services of a certified working conditions service to advise them on health and safety’. A ‘certified service’ must employ sufficient numbers of four types of certified experts to cover the risks in the organisations which use the service:\n\nIn 2004, 37% of health and safety practitioners in Norway and 14% in the Netherlands had an MSc; 44% had a BSc in Norway and 63% in the Netherlands; and 19% had training as an OSH technician in Norway and 23% in the Netherlands.\n\nThe main tasks undertaken by the OHS practitioner in the US include:\n\nKnowledge required by the OHS professional in the US include:\n\nSome skills required by the OHS professional in the US include (but are not limited to):\n\nBecause different countries take different approaches to ensuring occupational safety and health, areas of OSH need and focus also vary between countries and regions. Similar to the findings of the ENHSPO survey conducted in Australia, the Institute of Occupational Medicine in the UK found that there is a need to put greater emphasis on work-related illness in the UK. In contrast, in Australia and the US, a major responsibility of the OHS professional is to keep company directors and managers aware of the issues that they face in regards to occupational health and safety principles and legislation. However, in some other areas of Europe, it is precisely this which has been lacking: “Nearly half of senior managers and company directors do not have an up-to-date understanding of their health and safety-related duties and responsibilities.”\n\nThe terminology used in OSH varies between countries, but generally speaking:\n\n“Hazard”, “risk”, and “outcome” are used in other fields to describe e.g. environmental damage, or damage to equipment. However, in the context of OSH, “harm” generally describes the direct or indirect degradation, temporary or permanent, of the physical, mental, or social well-being of workers. For example, repetitively carrying out manual handling of heavy objects is a hazard. The outcome could be a musculoskeletal disorder (MSD) or an acute back or joint injury. The risk can be expressed numerically (e.g. a 0.5 or 50/50 chance of the outcome occurring during a year), in relative terms (e.g. \"high/medium/low\"), or with a multi-dimensional classification scheme (e.g. situation-specific risks).\n\nHazard identification or assessment is an important step in the overall risk assessment and risk management process. It is where individual work hazards are identified, assessed and controlled/eliminated as close to source (location of the hazard) as reasonably as possible. As technology, resources, social expectation or regulatory requirements change, hazard analysis focuses controls more closely toward the source of the hazard. Thus hazard control is a dynamic program of prevention. Hazard-based programs also have the advantage of not assigning or implying there are \"acceptable risks\" in the workplace. A hazard-based program may not be able to eliminate all risks, but neither does it accept \"satisfactory\" – but still risky – outcomes. And as those who calculate and manage the risk are usually managers while those exposed to the risks are a different group, workers, a hazard-based approach can by-pass conflict inherent in a risk-based approach. \n\nThe information that needs to be gathered from sources should apply to the specific type of work from which the hazards can come from. As mentioned previously, examples of these sources include interviews with people who have worked in the field of the hazard, history and analysis of past incidents, and official reports of work and the hazards encountered. Of these, the personnel interviews may be the most critical in identifying undocumented practices, events, releases, hazards and other relevant information. Once the information is gathered from a collection of sources, it is recommended for these to be digitally archived (to allow for quick searching) and to have a physical set of the same information in order for it to be more accessible. One innovative way to display the complex historical hazard information is with a historical hazards identification map, which distills the hazard information into an easy to use graphical format.\n\nModern occupational safety and health legislation usually demands that a risk assessment be carried out prior to making an intervention. It should be kept in mind that risk management requires risk to be managed to a level which is as low as is reasonably practical.\n\nThis assessment should:\n\nThe calculation of risk is based on the likelihood or probability of the harm being realized and the severity of the consequences. This can be expressed mathematically as a quantitative assessment (by assigning low, medium and high likelihood and severity with integers and multiplying them to obtain a risk factor), or qualitatively as a description of the circumstances by which the harm could arise.\n\nThe assessment should be recorded and reviewed periodically and whenever there is a significant change to work practices. The assessment should include practical recommendations to control the risk. Once recommended controls are implemented, the risk should be re-calculated to determine if it has been lowered to an acceptable level. Generally speaking, newly introduced controls should lower risk by one level, i.e., from high to medium or from medium to low.\n\nOn an international scale, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the International Labour Organization (ILO) have begun focusing on labour environments in developing nations with projects such as Healthy Cities. Many of these developing countries are stuck in a situation in which their relative lack of resources to invest in OSH leads to increased costs due to work-related illnesses and accidents. As a 2007 Factsheet from the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work states: \"Countries with less developed OSH systems spend a far higher percentage of GDP on work-related injury and illness – taking resources away from more productive activities ... The ILO estimates that work-related illness and accidents cost up to 10% of GDP in Latin America, compared with just 2.6% to 3.8% in the EU.\" There is continued use of asbestos, a notorious hazard, in some developing countries. So asbestos-related disease is, sadly, expected to continue to be a significant problem well into the future.\n\nNanotechnology is an example of a new, relatively unstudied technology. A Swiss survey of one hundred thirty eight companies using or producing nanoparticulate matter in 2006 resulted in forty completed questionnaires. Sixty five per cent of respondent companies stated they did not have a formal risk assessment process for dealing with nanoparticulate matter. Nanotechnology already presents new issues for OSH professionals that will only become more difficult as nanostructures become more complex. The size of the particles renders most containment and personal protective equipment ineffective. The toxicology values for macro sized industrial substances are rendered inaccurate due to the unique nature of nanoparticulate matter. As nanoparticulate matter decreases in size its relative surface area increases dramatically, increasing any catalytic effect or chemical reactivity substantially versus the known value for the macro substance. This presents a new set of challenges in the near future to rethink contemporary measures to safeguard the health and welfare of employees against a nanoparticulate substance that most conventional controls have not been designed to manage.\n\nOccupational health disparities refer to differences in occupational injuries and illnesses that are closely linked with demographic, social, cultural, economic, and/or political factors.\n\nThere are multiple levels of training applicable to the field of occupational safety and health (OSH). Programs range from individual non-credit certificates, focusing on specific areas of concern, to full doctoral programs. The University of Southern California was one of the first schools in the US to offer a Ph.D. program focusing on the field. Further, multiple master's degree programs exist, such as that of the Indiana State University who offer a master of science (MS) and a master of arts (MA) in OSH. Graduate programs are designed to train educators, as well as, high-level practitioners. Many OSH generalists focus on undergraduate studies; programs within schools, such as that of the University of North Carolina's online Bachelor of Science in Environmental Health and Safety, fill a large majority of hygienist needs. However, smaller companies often don’t have full-time safety specialists on staff, thus, they appoint a current employee to the responsibility. Individuals finding themselves in positions such as these, or for those enhancing marketability in the job-search and promotion arena, may seek out a credit certificate program. For example, the University of Connecticut's online OSH Certificate, provides students familiarity with overarching concepts through a 15-credit (5-course) program. Programs such as these are often adequate tools in building a strong educational platform for new safety managers with a minimal outlay of time and money. Further, most hygienists seek certification by organizations which train in specific areas of concentration, focusing on isolated workplace hazards. The American Society for Safety Engineers (ASSE), American Board of Industrial Hygiene (ABIH), and American Industrial Hygiene Association (AIHA) offer individual certificates on many different subjects from forklift operation to waste disposal and are the chief facilitators of continuing education in the OSH sector. In the U.S. the training of safety professionals is supported by National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health through their NIOSH Education and Research Centers.\nIn Australia, training in OSH is available at the vocational education and training level, and at university undergraduate and postgraduate level. Such university courses may be accredited by an Accreditation Board of the Safety Institute of Australia. The Institute has produced a Body of Knowledge which it considers is required by a generalist safety and health professional, and offers a professional qualification based on a four-step assessment.\n\nOn April 28 The International Labour Organization celebrates \"World Day for Safety and Health\" to raise awareness of safety in the workplace. Occurring annually since 2003, each year it focuses on a specific area and bases a campaign around the theme.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52574796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52574796", "title": "Okuryangava", "text": "Okuryangava\n\nOkuryangava is a suburb of Windhoek, the capital of Namibia. The township is situated in the north of the town between the suburbs of Freedomland, Golgota and Ombili in Katutura in Khomas region of Namibia. Okuryangava is divided into different sections, to mention a few: 74, 79, Women Center, Orieta, Monte christo\n(bus loading zone), Stop and shop. It is also known for the two service stations and has schools such as Tobias Hainyeko Primary School.\n"}
{"id": "43273958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43273958", "title": "Road curve", "text": "Road curve\n\nRoad curves are regular bends in roads to bring a gradual change of direction. Similar curves are on railways and canals.\n\nCurves provided in the horizontal plane are known as horizontal curves and are generally circular or parabolic.\n\nFour types of circular curves are on roads:\n\nA simple curve has the same radius throughout and is a single arc of a circle, with two tangents meeting at the intersection (B in this diagram).\n\nA compound curve has two or more simple curves with different radii that bend the same way and are on the same side of a common tangent. In this diagram, MN is the common tangent.\n\nAlso called a serpentine curve, it is the reverse of a compound curve, and two simple curves bent in opposite directions are on opposite sides of the common tangent.\n\nA deviation curve is simply a combination of two reverse curves. It is used when it is necessary to deviate from a given straight path to avoid intervening obstructions such as a building, a body of water, or other significant site.\n\n"}
{"id": "48303468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48303468", "title": "Rojava conflict", "text": "Rojava conflict\n\nThe Rojava conflict, also known as the Rojava revolution, is a political upheaval and military conflict taking place in Northern Syria, known among Kurdish nationalists as Western Kurdistan or Rojava. During the Syrian Civil War from 2012, a Kurdish-dominated coalition led by the Democratic Union Party as well as some other Kurdish, Arab, Syriac-Assyrian and Turkmen groups have sought to establish a new constitution for the \"de facto\" autonomous region, while military wings and allied militias have fought to maintain control of the region. This led to the establishment of the Democratic Federation of Northern Syria (DFNS) in 2016. The supporters of the DFNS argues that the events constitute a social revolution with a prominent role played by women both on the battlefield and within the newly formed political system, as well as the implementation of democratic confederalism, a form of libertarian socialism which emphasizes decentralization, gender equality and the need for local governance through semi-direct democracy.\n\nThe area is strategically important, because it contains a large percentage of Syria's oil supplies.\n\nRepression of the Kurds and other ethnic minorities has gone on since the creation of the French Mandate of Syria after the Sykes–Picot Agreement. \nThe Syrian government (officially known as the Syrian Arab Republic) never officially acknowledged the existence of the Kurds and in 1962 120,000 Syrian Kurds were stripped of their citizenship, leaving them stateless. The Kurdish language and culture have also been suppressed. The government attempted to resolve these issues in 2011 by granting all Kurds citizenship, but only an estimated 6,000 out of 150,000 stateless Kurds have been given nationality and most discriminatory regulations, including the ban on teaching Kurdish, are still on the books. Due to the Syrian Civil War, which began in 2011, the government is no longer in a position to enforce these laws.\n\nIn 2004, riots broke out against the government in the northeastern city of Qamishli. During a soccer match between a local Kurdish team and a visiting Arab team from Deir ez-Zor, some Arab fans brandished portraits of Saddam Hussein (who slaughtered tens of thousands of Kurds in Southern Kurdistan during the genocidal Al-Anfal campaign in the 1980s). Tensions quickly escalated into open protests, with Kurds raising their flag and taking to the streets to demand cultural and political rights. Security forces fired into the crowd, killing six Kurds, including three children. Protesters went on to burn down the Ba'ath Party's local office. At least 30 and as many as 100 Kurds were killed by the government before the protests were quelled. Thousands of Kurds fled to Iraq afterwards, where a refugee camp was established. Occasional clashes between Kurdish protesters and government forces occurred in the following years.\n\nIn 2011, the Arab Spring spread to Syria. Similar to the beginning of the Tunisian revolution, Syrian citizen Hasan Ali Akleh soaked himself in gasoline and set himself on fire in the northern city of Al-Hasakah. This inspired activists to call for a \"Day of Rage\", which ended up being sparsely attended, mostly because of fear of repression from the Syrian government. Days later, however, protests again took place, this time in response to the police beating of a shopkeeper.\n\nSmaller protests continued, but it was on 7 March 2011, when thirteen political prisoners went on hunger strike, that momentum began to grow against the Assad government. Three days later dozens of Syrian Kurds went on hunger strike in solidarity. On 12 March, major protests took place in Qamishli and Al-Hasakah to both protest the Assad government and commemorate Kurdish Martyrs Day.\n\nProtests grew over the months of March and April 2011. The Assad government attempted to appease Kurds by promising to grant citizenship to thousands of Kurds, who until that time had been stripped of any legal status. By the summer, protests had only intensified, as did violent crackdowns by the Syrian government.\n\nIn August, a coalition of opposition groups formed the Syrian National Council in hopes of creating a democratic, pluralistic alternative to the Assad government. However, internal fighting and disagreement over politics and inclusion plagued the group from its early beginnings. In the fall of 2011 the popular uprising escalated to an armed conflict. The Free Syrian Army (FSA) began to coalesce and armed insurrection spread, largely across the central and southern parts of Syria.\n\nThe National Movement of Kurdish Parties in Syria, a coalition of Syria's 12 Kurdish parties, boycotted a Syrian opposition summit in Antalya, Turkey on 31 May 2011, stating that \"any such meeting held in Turkey can only be a detriment to the Kurds in Syria, because Turkey is against the aspirations of the Kurds\".\n\nDuring the August summit in Istanbul, which led to the creation of the Syrian National Council, only two of the parties in the National Movement of Kurdish Parties in Syria, the Kurdish Union Party and the Kurdish Freedom Party, attended the summit.\n\nAnti-government protests had been ongoing in the Kurdish-inhabited areas of Syria since March 2011, as part of the wider Syrian uprising, but clashes started after the opposition Kurdish Democratic Union Party (PYD) and Kurdish National Council (KNC) signed a seven-point agreement on 11 June 2012 in Erbil under the auspice of Iraqi Kurdistan president Massoud Barzani. This agreement, however, failed to be implemented and so a new cooperation agreement between the two sides was signed on 12 July which saw the creation of the Kurdish Supreme Committee as a governing body of all Kurdish-controlled territories in Syria.\n\nThe People's Protection Units (YPG) entered the conflict by capturing the city of Kobanî on 19 July 2012, followed by the capture of Amuda and Efrîn on 20 July. The cities fell without any major clashes, as Syrian security forces withdrew without any significant resistance. The Syrian Army pulled out to fight elsewhere. The KNC and PYD afterwards formed a joint leadership council to run the captured cities.\n\nThe YPG forces continued with their advancement and on 21 July captured Al-Malikiyah (), which is located 10 kilometers from the Turkish border. The rebels at the time also intended to capture Qamishli, the largest Syrian city with a Kurdish majority. On the same day, the Syrian government attacked a patrol of Kurdish YPG members and wounded one fighter. The next day it was reported that Kurdish forces were still fighting for Al-Malikiyah, where one young Kurdish activist was killed after government security forces opened fire on protesters. The YPG also took control over the towns of Ra's al-'Ayn () and Al-Darbasiyah (), after the security and political units withdrew from these areas, following an ultimatum issued by the Kurds. On the same day, clashes erupted in Qamishli between YPG and government forces in which one Kurdish fighter was killed and two were wounded along with one government official.\n\nThe ease with which Kurdish forces captured the towns and the government troops pulled back was speculated to be due to the government reaching an agreement with the Kurds so military forces from the area could be freed up to engage opposition forces in the rest of the country. On 24 July, the PYD announced that Syrian security forces withdrew from the small Kurdish city of 16,000 of Al-Ma'bada (), located between Al-Malikiyah and the Turkish borders. The YPG forces afterwards took control of all government institutions.\n\nOn 1 August 2012, Assad forces on the periphery of the country were pulled into the intensifying conflict taking place in Aleppo. During this large withdrawal from the north, the People's Protection Units (YPG), a pro-Kurdish militia that formed after the 2004 Qamishli riots, took control of at least parts of Qamishlo, Efrin, Amude, Terbaspi and Ayn El Arab with very little conflict or casualties.\n\nOn 2 August 2012, the National Coordination Committee for Democratic Change announced that most Kurdish-majority cities in Syria, with the exception of Qamishli and Hasaka, were no longer controlled by government forces and were now being governed by Kurdish political parties. In Qamishli, government military and police forces remained in their barracks and administration officials in the city allowed the Kurdish flag to be raised.\n\nIn the same month, the Free Syrian Army (FSA) successfully bombed the government's intelligence center in the city.\n\nAfter months of de facto rule, the PYD officially announced its regional autonomy on 9 January 2014. Elections were held, popular assemblies established and the Constitution of Rojava was approved. Since then, residents have been organizing local assemblies, re-opening schools, establishing community centers and pushing back the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) to gain control of further territory. They see their model of grassroots democracy as a model that can be implemented throughout Syria in the future.\n\nAfter declaring autonomy, grassroots organizers, politicians and other community members have radically changed the social and political make-up of the area. The extreme laws restricting independent political organizing, women's freedom, religious and cultural expression and the discriminatory policies carried out by the Assad government have been superseded. In their place, a Constitution of Rojava guaranteeing the cultural, religious and political freedom of all people has been established. The constitution also explicitly states the equal rights and freedom of women and also \"mandates public institutions to work towards the elimination of gender discrimination\".\n\nThe political and social changes taking place in Rojava have in large part been inspired by the libertarian socialist politics of Kurdish leader Abdullah Öcalan.\n\nThe Rojava economy is a blend of private companies, the autonomous administration and worker cooperatives. Since the revolution, efforts have been made to transition the economy to one of self-sufficiency based on worker and producer cooperatives. This transition faces the major obstacles of ongoing conflict and an embargo from all neighboring countries: Turkey, Iraq, Iran, and the various forces controlling nearby areas of Syria. This has forced people to rely almost exclusively on diesel-run generators for electricity. Additionally, strong emphasis is being placed on businesses that can bring about self-sufficiency to the region.\n\nThere are no required taxes in Rojava. Instead the administration funds itself through the sale of oil and border commerce (which is clandestine because of the embargo). There are partnerships that have been created between private companies and the administration. The administration also funds the school system and distributes bread to all citizens at a below-market rate.\n\nThe Movement for a Democratic Society Economic Committee has been helping businesses move towards a \"community economy\" based on worker cooperatives and self-sufficiency.\n\nCooperatives first formed in the agricultural and infrastructure sectors. In the Jazira Canton there are 18 agricultural cooperatives, 12 general co-ops and six women-run co-ops.\n\nOther cooperatives involve bottled mineral water, construction, factories, fuel stations, generators, livestock, oil, pistachio and roasted seeds, and public markets.\n\nAdditionally there are several agricultural communes with families collectively working the land.\n\nThe Rojava Cantons are governed through a combination of district and civil councils. District councils consist of 300 members as well as two elected co-presidents- one man and one woman. District councils decide and carry out administrative and economic duties such as garbage collection, land distribution and cooperative enterprises. Civil councils exist to promote social and political rights in the community.\n\nClosely related to religious freedom and the protection of religious minorities is the protection of ethnic minorities. Kurds now have the right to study their language freely, as do Assyrians. For the first time, a Kurdish curriculum has been introduced to the public school system.\n\nResidents are also now free to express their culture freely. Culture and music centers have formed, hosting dance classes, music lessons and choir practice.\n\nIn some areas, in addition to the gender quota for councils, there is also an ethnic minority quota.\n\nThe criminal justice system is undergoing significant reforms, moving away from a punitive approach under the Assad government to one based on the principles of restorative justice. Reconciliation Committees have replaced the Syrian government court system in several cities. Committees are representative of the ethnic diversity in their respective area. For example, the committee in Tal Abyad has Arabs, Kurds, Turkmen and Armenians.\n\nFeminism, specifically jineology (the science of women), is central to the social revolution taking place in Rojava. Much of the focus of the revolution has been in addressing the extreme levels of violence which women in the area have endured as well as increasing women's leadership in all political institutions.\n\nAll YPG and YPJ fighters and Asayish have the study of jineology as part of their training, and it is also taught in community centers.\n\nIn every town and village under YPG control, a women's house is established. These are community centers run by women, providing services to survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault and other forms of harm. These services include counseling, family mediation, legal support, and coordinating safe houses for women and children. Classes on economic independence and social empowerment programs are also held at women's houses.\n\nEfforts are being made to reduce cases of underage marriage, polygamy and honor killings, both socially as well as through legislation forbidding these practices.\n\nA key component of the direct democracy model being enacted in Rojava is co-leadership. Every major position in both civil and military institutions is led by a man and a woman. This is to ensure gender balance in power and decision-making, as well as a general level of accountability for the position as it requires two people to reach agreement on decisions made.\n\nA 40% gender quota is required of all councils in order for a vote to take place.\n\nChristian Assyrians, Muslim Kurds and others have worked together both in fighting government forces and Islamist groups as well as in managing political affairs. The right to religious expression is also safeguarded in the constitution. This, as well as the extreme hostility towards religious minorities in Islamist controlled areas, has led to a large migration of religious minorities to Rojava.\n\nFor the first time in Syrian history, civil marriage is being allowed and promoted. This is a significant move towards increased tolerance between people of different religious backgrounds.\n\nThere are four major forces involved in the Rojava revolution. The People's Protection Units are working with the PYD and other political parties to establish self-rule in Rojava. Syrian government forces still maintain rule in some areas of Rojava under the leadership of the Assad regime. A collection of Sunni Islamist forces, the largest being the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), fought to rule the region by way of Islamic fundamentalism. Finally, there were several militias under the general banner of the Free Syrian Army whose intentions and alliances have differed and shifted over time. \n\nWhile conflict between the YPG and the Syrian government has not been as active as fighting against Islamist forces, there have been several conflicts between the two forces. Territory once controlled by the Syrian government in both Qamishli and al-Hasakah has been lost to YPG forces. At the end of April 2016, clashes erupted between government forces and Kurdish fighters for the control of the city.\n\nAs of the beginning of August 2016, YPG fighters controlled two-thirds of the northeastern city of al-Hasakah, while pro-government militia controlled the remainder. On 17 August 2016, heavy clashes broke out between Kurdish fighters and the pro-government militias, resulting in the deaths of four civilians, four Kurdish fighters, and three government loyalists. On 18 August, Syrian government aircraft bombed Kurdish positions in Hasakah, including three Kurdish checkpoints and three Kurdish bases. Syrian Kurds had recently demanded that the pro-government National Defense Forces militia disband in al-Hasakah. A government source told the AFP that the air strikes were \"a message to the Kurds that they should stop this sort of demand that constitutes an affront to national sovereignty\". Another possible factor behind the fighting may have been the recent thaw in Turkish-Russian relations that began in July 2016; Russia, a key ally of the Syrian government, had previously been supporting Syrian Kurdish forces as a means to apply pressure to Turkey. After the recent setbacks suffered by ISIS in Syria and Iraq and improvements in the Turkish-Russian relationship, it is possible that Russia and its allies began to view a strong YPG as increasingly less useful.\n\nIn response to the attacks by the Syrian aircraft on Kurdish positions near al-Hasakah, the United States scrambled planes over the city in order to deter further attacks.\n\nBy 22 August, Syrian government troops, Hezbollah fighters, and members of the Iranian paramilitary Basij militia had become involved in the fighting against Kurdish forces in al-Hasakah.\n\nOn 28 December 2012, Syrian government forces opened fire on pro-FSA demonstrators in al-Hasakah city, killing and wounding several individuals. Arab tribes in the area attacked YPG positions in the city in reprisal, accusing the Kurdish fighters of collaborating with the government. Clashes broke out, and three Arabs were killed, though it was not clear whether they were killed by YPG forces or nearby government troops. Demonstrations were organised by various Kurdish groups throughout Western Kurdistan in late December as well. PYD supporters drove vehicles at low speeds through a KNC demonstration in Qamishli, raising tensions between the two groups.\n\nFrom 2 to 4 January, PYD-led demonstrators staged protests in the al-Antariyah neighbourhood of Qamishli, demanding \"freedom and democracy\" for both Kurds and Syrians. Many activists camped out on site. On 4 January, approximately 10,000 people were participating in the rallies, which also included smaller numbers of supporters of other Kurdish parties, such as the KNC, which staged a rally in the Munir Habib neighbourhood. PYD organisers had planned for 100,000 people to participate, but such support did not materialise. The demonstrations were concurrent with rallies conducted across the country by the Arab opposition, though Kurdish parties did not use the same slogans as the Arabs, and also did not the same slogans amongst their own parties. Kurds also demonstrated in several other towns, but not across the entire Kurdish region.\n\nMeanwhile, several armed incidents occurred between the dominant PYD-YPG and other Kurdish parties in the region, particularly the Kurdish Union (\"Yekîtî\") Party, part of a Kurdish political coalition called the Syrian Kurdish Democratic Union formed on 15 December 2012, which excludes the PYD. On 3 January, PYD gunmen staged a drive-by shooting on a Yekîtî office in Qamishli. Armed Yekîtî members returned fire, injuring one PYD member. The same day, armed clashes broke out between YPG fighters and members of the newly formed Jiwan Qatna Battalion of Yekîtî in ad-Darbasiyah. Four Yekîtî members were abducted by the YPG, who accused them of being affiliated with Islamist groups, though Yekîtî activists alleged that the PYD wanted to prevent other Kurdish groups from arming themselves. Following demonstrations in the town demanding their release and an intervention by the KNC, the four men were released by the end of the day. On 11 January, YPG forces raided an empty Yekîtî training ground near Ali Faru which had been built in early January, tearing down both the Kurdish and FSA flags that had been flying at the base. Though PYD members defended the raid by saying that the flags could have attracted government airstrikes, Yekîtî condemned the action.\n\nOn 31 January, Kamal Mustafa Hanan, editor-in-chief of Newroz (a Kurdish-language journal) and a former Yekîtî politician, was fatally shot in the Ashrafiyah district of Aleppo. It was not clear if he was the victim of a stray bullet or of a politically motivated assassination. Yekîtî organised a funeral procession in the town of Afrin in the Kurdish-held northwest corner of Aleppo Province on 1 February, which members of both the PYD and KNC attended. Also on 1 February, Kurds staged demonstrations in several towns and villages across West Kurdistan concurrent with opposition demonstrations elsewhere in the country. The demonstrations were organised by various Kurdish groups, including the PYD and KNC. Demonstrators from the KNC demanded an end to fighting in Ras al-Ayn and the withdrawal of armed groups from the town, while PYD demonstrators stressed solidarity with their YPG units and the Kurdish Supreme Council.\n\nFrom 2 to 5 February, YPG forces blockaded the village of Kahf al-Assad (), inhabited by members of the Kurdish Kherikan tribe, after being fired upon by unknown gunmen in the village. YPG checkpoints were also established around other Kherikan villages. The Kherikan are traditionally supporters of the Massoud Barzani government of Iraqi Kurdistan, and as oppose the PYD. The blockade was the third time in two years that hostilities had broken out between the PYD/YPG and locals from Kahf al-Assad.\n\nOn 7 February, YPG members kidnapped three members of the opposition Azadî party in Ayn al-Arab.\n\nOn 22 February, Osman Baydemir, mayor of the city of Diyarbakır in Turkey, announced the initiation of a one-month humanitarian aid programme in which his city—along with the surrounding districts of Bağlar, Yenişehir, Kayapınar, and Sur—would provide food assistance to Kurdish areas in Syria affected by the war, which had received little of the humanitarian aid that other regions of Syria had received.\n\nOn 11 April 2016, PYD supporters attacked the offices of the Kurdish National Council and the Kurdistan Democratic Party of Syria in Derbessiye and Qamishli. The head of the Kurdish National Council told Turkey's TRT World channel the \"PYD's oppressive attitude in Syria is forcing Kurds to leave the region\".\n\nOn 16 January 2017, more than 270 Syrian Kurdish activists signed an appeal calling for unity talks between the main Syrian Kurdish parties. In response, the Movement for a Democratic Society led by the PYD stated that they welcome unity and called on the Kurdish National Council to participate in federal project. The KNC led by the KDP-S, in response, demanded the release its political prisoners detained in Rojava. The KNC has rejected the federalism project launched by the Syrian Democratic Council and stated that it will participate in the peace talks in Astana, Kazakhstan, with Turkey and Russia. The Kurdish National Alliance in Syria, part of the SDC also welcomed the proposal of unity.\n\nOn 3 February 2017, amidst clashes between the KDP-S-affiliated Peshmerga group and the Sinjar Resistance Units in Sinjar, a KNC office was burned in Qamishli and another attacked in Dirbêsiyê. The KNC accused the pro-PYD youth group the Ciwanen Soresger of perpetrating the attacks. However, the perpetrators were reportedly arrested by the Asayish.\n\nOn 3 March 2017, the Rojava Asayish arrested more than 40 members of the KNC in Syria while the KDP Asayish arrested 23 opposition protesters in Iraqi Kurdistan. 17 of them were later released but 6 were still imprisoned. By 16 March, more than 13 KNC offices and an Assyrian Democratic Organization office in Rojava were shut down by Rojava Asayish forces, reportedly for failing to register with PYD authorities. In response, the Human Rights Watch called on both sides to \"immediately\" release all \"arbitrarily held political detainees\". The Mesopotamia National Council announced their support for TEV-DEM's requirement for parties to apply to licenses to operate in Rojava. However, the council also called for the self-management to give sufficient time for applications and denounced \"random\" closing of the parties' offices.\n\nOn 3 April 2017, the Kurdish National Council called on the PYD to release 4 of its detainees: a Kurdish Future Movement in Syria member, a Kurdish Youth Movement member, and two KDP-S members. As of the same day, 6 detainees were still held by Iraqi Kurdish authorities.\n\nOn 12 April 2017, an official in TEV-DEM met with Gabriel Moushe Gawrieh, head of the Assyrian Democratic Organization, and discussed the closure of the latter's offices since March. It was the first time TEV-DEM officials met with the ADO.\n\nThe Syrian Kurdish–Islamist conflict is a major theater in the Syrian Civil War, starting in 2013 after fighting erupted between the Kurdish People's Protection Units (YPG) and Islamist rebel factions in the city of Ras al-Ayn. Kurdish forces launched a campaign in an attempt to take control of the Islamist-controlled areas in the governorate of al-Hasakah and some parts of Raqqa and Aleppo governorates after al-Qaeda in Syria used those areas to attack the YPG. The Kurdish groups and their allies' goal was also to capture Kurdish areas from the Arab Islamist rebels and strengthen the autonomy of the region of Rojava.\n\nYPG forces as well as later the broader Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) have clashed heavily with Islamist forces of all stripes in the following years, in particular with those representing the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Most notable have been the Siege of Kobanî (2014), the Al-Hasakah offensive (February–March 2015), the Al-Hasakah offensive (May 2015), the Tell Abyad offensive (May–July 2015), the Battle of Sarrin (June–July 2015), the Battle of Al-Hasakah (June–August 2015), and the ongoing Raqqa campaign (2016–present) including the Battle of Tabqa (2017).\n\nTurkey has long regarded the PYD as an alleged Syrian extension of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), and has therefore taken a hardline stance against the group, the official talking point being that it would not allow a Kurdish state to form along their southern border with Syria. Turkey's policy towards Rojava is based on an economic blockade, persistent attempts of international isolation, opposition to the cooperation of the international Anti-ISIL-coalition with Rojava militias, and support of Islamist Syrian Civil War parties hostile towards Rojava, in past times even including ISIL. Turkey has on several occasions been militarily attacking Rojava territory and defence forces. The latter has resulted in some of the most clearcut instances of international solidarity with Rojava.\n\nTurkey has received PYD co-chair Salih Muslim for talks in 2013 and in 2014, even entertaining the idea of opening a Rojava representation office in Ankara \"if it's suitable with Ankara's policies\". Turkey recognizes the PYD and the YPG militia as identical to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which is listed as a terrorist organisation by Turkey, the European Union, the United States and others. However, the EU, the US, and others cooperate with the PYD and the YPG militia in the fight against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and do not consider either a terrorist organisation. About its loss in international standing, the consequence of domestic and foreign policies of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, the Turkish government is contemptuous. The Turkish foreign minister called the PYD a \"terrorist organisation\" in his speech at the meeting of Council of Foreign Ministers of the 13th Islamic Summit of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on 12 April 2016 at Istanbul, Turkey. In November 2016 a state-run media organization of Turkey, \"Anadolu Agency\", accused the educational institutions of Rojava of \"prejudice against Islam\". U.S. Defense Secretary Ashton Carter admitted to links between the PYD, the YPG, and the PKK. Secretary Carter replied, \"Yes,\" to a Senate panel when Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) asked whether he believed the Syrian Kurds are \"aligned or at least have substantial ties to the PKK\". Rojava and YPG leaders insist that the PKK is a separate organization. YPG representatives have persistently reiterated that their militia has an all Syrian agenda and no agenda of hostility whatsoever towards Turkey. However, according to the Turkish \"Daily Sabah\", at one occasion in January 2016 \"a YouTube video has appeared of an English-speaking man, believed to be a fighter from the Democratic Union Party's (PYD) armed wing, the People's Protection Units (YPG) (...) making a call for Westerners to join the ranks of the armed group and conduct terrorist attacks against the Turkish state.\" In the perception of much of the Turkish public, the Rojava federal project as well as U.S. support for the YPG against ISIL are elements of a wider conspiracy scheme by a \"mastermind\" with the aim to weaken or even dismember Turkey, in order to prevent its imminent rise as a global power.\nFollowing major YPG successes in 2015, notably the capture of Tell Abyad, Turkey began indiscriminately targeting YPG forces in northern Syria. Since 16 February 2016, Turkish forces have been shelling Kurdish forces in the Afrin Canton after the SDF took initiative from an SAA offensive and captured rebel-held areas of the Azaz District, notably Tell Rifaat and Menagh Airbase. Turkey has vowed not to allow the SDF to capture the key border town of Azaz. As a result, 25 Kurdish militants have been killed and 197 injured from Turkish artillery fire. In early 2016, following the capture of Tishrin Dam, allowing the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) to cross the River Euphrates, a proclaimed 'red line' by Turkey. Turkish forces bombed the Kurdish YPG headquarters in Tell Abyad, destroying three armoured vehicles and injuring two Kurdish fighters. The following day, 21 January 2016, Turkish troops crossed the border with Syria and entered the ISIS-controlled Syrian border town of Jarabulus which the YPG had been planning on capturing as part of an offensive to unite their areas of control into one continuous banner of territory. Kurdish-led forces in northern Syria said Turkish airstrikes hit their bases in Amarneh village near Jarablus on 27 August 2016, after Turkish artillery shelled the positions the day before. The Syrian Observatory reported on 27 August 2016, about exchange of gunfire between YPG and the Turkish forces in the countryside north of Hasakah. It is unclear if Turkish forces were on Syrian territory or had fired across the border.\n\nIn March 2017, U.S. Lieutenant General Stephen Townsend said \"I have seen absolutely zero evidence that they have been a threat to, or have supported any attacks on, Turkey from Northern Syria over the last two years.\" The top U.S. commander in the campaign against Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) argued that the Peoples’ Protection Units (YPG), the military wing of the Syrian Kurdish Democratic Union Party (PYD), does not pose a threat to Turkey. \"Of those YPG fighters, I’ve talked to their leaders and we’ve watched them operate and they continually reassure us that they have no desire to attack Turkey, that they are not a threat to Turkey, in fact that they desire to have a good working relationship with Turkey.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40769901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40769901", "title": "Saoyú-ʔehdacho", "text": "Saoyú-ʔehdacho\n\nSaoyú-ʔehdacho (also known as Sahoyue-Edacho, Sahoyúé-§ehdacho, Saoyú and Æehdacho and Grizzly Bear Mountain and Scented Grass Hills) is a cultural landscape in the Northwest Territories, Canada, comprising two peninsulas in Great Bear Lake. The site has great cultural and spiritual significance for the Sahtu people, as it is considered sacred land and it features prominently in their oral histories. \n\nSaoyú-ʔehdacho is in size, approximately the size of the province of Prince Edward Island, and consists of two peninsulas: Saoyú (Grizzly Bear Mountain) and ʔehdacho (Scented Grass Hills). The peninsulas are both characterized by flat summits, approximately above sea level respectively. The perimeters of both promontories feature a series of raised beaches, formed by the post-glacial rebound, which contain the majority of the known evidence of human occupation of the lands, including archaeological resources related to pre-contact occupation from over 5000 years ago.\n\nSaoyú-ʔehdacho was designated a National Historic Site in 1997, on the basis that the landscape, its cultural resources (including graves, trails and cabins) and its associated oral histories contribute to an understanding of the origin, spiritual values, lifestyle and land-use of the Sahtu Dene. In 2001 and 2005, the federal government enacted withdrawal orders under the \"Territorial Lands Act\", prohibiting the registration of new mineral claims or other third party interests against the Saoyú-ʔehdacho lands. In 2007, Parks Canada entered into an agreement with the Déline First Nation to permanently protect and cooperatively manage the site, with surface title to the Crown lands portion of the site (constituting 80% of the overall land) transferred to Parks Canada from Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development Canada in 2009. In 2011, an Order in Council increased the legal protection for Crown-owned portions of the site by applying regulatory protections under the National Parks Act to the lands.\n\nSaoyú-ʔehdacho is the largest National Historic Site of Canada in land area. Saoyú-ʔehdacho is also:\n\nSaoyú-ʔehdacho is also the first site to be protected under the territorial government's Protected Areas Strategy, a consultative process created with the involvement of the federal and territorial governments, aboriginal groups, environmental groups and industry, with the objective of establishing a network of protected areas across the Northwest Territories.\n\nIn the Slavey language, \"Saoyú\" means \"belonging to the bear\" and \"ʔehdacho\" means \"big point\".\n\nWhen the site was first designated a National Historic Site in 1997, it was named Scented Grass Hills and Grizzly Bear Mountain. It was subsequently renamed Sahoyúé-§ehdacho, and again renamed to Saoyú-Æehdacho in June 2008 in an attempt to better reflect the Slavey name for the site. In June 2010, the cooperative management board for the site, made up of representatives of Parks Canada, the Déline Renewable Resources Council and the Déline Land Corporation, adopted the spelling Saoyú-ʔehdacho. The Status of Designation Committee of the national Historic Sites and Monuments Board approved the official name change for the National Historic Site in October 2010. \n"}
{"id": "19451787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19451787", "title": "Sri Lankan provincial flags", "text": "Sri Lankan provincial flags\n\nThis is a list of the Flags of the Sri Lankan Provinces. Provincial flags for the modern provinces of Sri Lanka were first introduced in 1987, and 1988 for the North Eastern Province, which was at the time one entity. In 2007 with the separation of the North Eastern Province, into the Northern and the Eastern provinces, two new flags were adopted.\n\nMost of the flags are based upon ancient Sinhalese flags, and or symbols for their respective regions. \n\n"}
{"id": "21222087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21222087", "title": "Stac Levenish", "text": "Stac Levenish\n\nStac Levenish or Stac Leibhinis (sometimes simply called Levenish/Leibhinis) is a sea stack in the St Kilda archipelago in Scotland. Lying off Village Bay on Hirta, it is part of the rim of an extinct volcano that includes Dùn, Ruaival and Mullach Sgar.\n\nThe stack is high. Its north cliff appears to have the profile of a human face, visible when travelling to St Kilda from the east. The skerry of Na Bodhan lies to the north east.\n\nThe stack was climbed recreationally in the early 1900s; Norman Heathcote mentions a moderately difficult ascent in 1900, as part of a climbing expedition that also included an ascent of Stac Lee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13068017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13068017", "title": "Surveyor's wheel", "text": "Surveyor's wheel\n\nA surveyor's wheel, also called a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle wheel, measuring wheel or perambulator is a device for measuring distance.\n\nThe origins of the surveyor's wheel are connected to the origins of the odometer. While the latter is derived to measure distances travelled by a vehicle, the former is specialized to measure distances. Much of the material on the earliest stages in the development of the hodometer are adequately covered in odometer.\n\nIn the 17th century, the surveyor's wheel was re-introduced and used to measure distances. A single wheel is attached to a handle and the device can be pushed or pulled along by a person walking. Early devices were made of wood and may have had an iron rim to provide strength. The wheels themselves would be made in the same manner as wagon wheels and often by the same makers. The measuring devices would be made by makers of scientific instruments and the device and handles would be attached to the wheel by them. The device to read the distance travelled would be mounted either near the hub of the wheel or at the top of the handle.\n\nIn some cases, double-wheel hodometers were constructed.\n\nFrancis Ronalds extended the concept in 1827 to create a device that recorded the distances travelled in graphical form as a survey plan. The apparatus had a worm on the axle of the two wheels that meshed with a toothed wheel to drive another transverse screw that carried a slider. A pencil on the slider recorded the distance travelled along the screw on an attached drawing board at a chosen scale.\n\nModern surveyor's wheels are constructed primarily of aluminium, with solid or pneumatic tyres on the wheel. Some can fold for transport or storage.\n\nThe surveyor's wheel is marked in fractional increments of revolution from a reference position. Thus its current position can be represented as a fraction of a revolution from this reference. If the wheel rotated a full turn (360 angular degrees), the distance traveled would be equal to the circumference of the wheel. Otherwise, the distance the wheel traveled is the circumference of the wheel multiplied by the fraction of a full turn. In the figure on the right, the blue line is the reference starting point. As the wheel turns during measurement, it is seen that the wheel sweeps out an angle of formula_1 radians, which is equal to 135 degrees or formula_2 of a full turn.\n\nEach revolution of the wheel measures a specific distance, such as a yard, metre or half-rod. Thus counting revolutions with a mechanical device attached to the wheel measures the distance directly.\n\nSurveyor's wheels will provide a measure of good accuracy on a smooth surface, such as pavement. On rough terrain, wheel slippage and bouncing can reduce the accuracy. Soft sandy or muddy soil can also affect the rolling of the wheel. As well, obstacles in the way of the path may have to be accounted for separately. Good surveyors will keep track of any circumstance on the path that can influence the accuracy of the distance measured and either measure that portion with an alternative, such as a surveyor's tape or measuring tape, or make a reasonable estimate of the correction to apply.\n\nSurveyor's wheels are used primarily for lower accuracy surveys. They are often used by road maintenance or underground utility workers and by farmers for fast measures over distances too inconvenient to measure with a surveyor's tape.\n\nThe surveyor's wheel measures the distance along a surface, whereas in normal land surveying, distances between points are usually measured horizontally with vertical measurements indicated in differences in elevation. Thus conventionally surveyed distances will be less than those measured by a surveyor's wheel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56821871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56821871", "title": "The European Azerbaijan Society (TEAS)", "text": "The European Azerbaijan Society (TEAS)\n\nThe European Azerbaijan Society was an organization founded on 2 July 2008 in London, United Kingdom, with the main goals of supporting the development of Azerbaijani relations and promoting the country, while involving Azerbaijanis living and studying abroad into these activities. The organisation is now being liquidated as of 26 July 2018. \n\nIn 2006, Tale Heydarov established the London Azerbaijan Society. After that, in 2008, The European Azerbaijan Society (TEAS) was established in London.\n\nInitially, the society had two directors – Nijat Heydarov and Tale Heydarov. They were in this position from 2008 until May 2013. From that date to present, the society's director and company secretary has been Lionel David Zetter.\n\nShahin Namati-Nasab was the company secretary from 2008 to 2011. From 2011 to 2013 this position was occupied by Nijat Heydarov. In 2013, the first corporate secretary showed up on the stage – Legis Secretarial Services Limited. In 2014, it was replaced by Nsm Services Limited.\n\nThe activities of TEAS are conducted in two main directions: culture and business.\n\nThe main aim of this direction is to promote Azerbaijan's cultural heritage, traditions and history, as well as to raise awareness about the country in the international area. In the framework of this program, TEAS organizes such events as book launches, various concerts and performances and exhibitions. Azerbaijan's history, culture, music, art and news are highlighted in TEAS TV Channel and TEAS Magazine.\n\nThis program is especially directed towards spreading information about Azerbaijan's literature, art, music, dances, folklore, cinema and theatre. As part of this program, they hold specific thematic cultural events.\n\nBusiness direction of TEAS helps new companies and already established ones to build and maintain their businesses. Thus, TEAS helps with many business-related issues, for example, conducting thorough market analysis based on the company's requirements. Moreover, TEAS offers broad range of services to its members, such as expert advice and consulting, business introductions and free access to all forums, networking events and conferences.\n\nVisions of Azerbaijan Magazine is a publication that issues once in two months and raises awareness of readers about culture and history of Azerbaijan. It also covers such topics as international relations, international business, business cooperation and the emerging tourism industry. The magazine was founded in 2006 by Anglo-Azerbaijani Youth Society and is currently being published in Azerbaijan.\n\nTEAS also conducts its own research about Azerbaijan's history and concludes the research by publishing those findings as part of TEAS Books series. TEAS Brochures is another branch of TEAS Publications, which is directed into creating brochures that overview Azerbaijan's history, geography, politics, economics, business, trade and international relations.\n\nThis program is aimed to collection and implementation of ideas that are directed to promotion of Azerbaijan's development. TEAS has supported and implemented the following projects:\n\nVictims of the Somali famine have been supported by TEAS, which helped to raise funds for providing necessary products to those people. More than 82,000 have been reached and helped out thanks to this programme.\n\nTEAS finances and supports the non-profit, non-governmental organization Our Talents - Our Future, which provides free education to academically talented children from low-income families in Sumgait, Azerbaijan. Since 2011, around 200 children have benefited from this initiative.\n\nThe photography contest named \"Azerbaijan Through the Lens\" is an initiative of TEAS, which provides professional and amateur photographers to showcase their works while also demonstrating different aspects of Azerbaijan, such as its nature, history and culture. Overall, 750 photographs were received, with three of them being winners of the competition and presented during the opening of the exhibition in 2012.\n\nIn 2011, the European-Azerbaijani school (EAS) was founded by TEAS. This is a private school, with the primary language being Azerbaijani. The school also conducts classes in Russian language. EAS provides students, who have achieved high scores during entrance or studying process with a scholarship opportunity.\n\nPolitics of Azerbaijan\n\nAzerbaijan and the European Union\n\nForeign relations of Azerbaijan\n\n"}
{"id": "41509718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41509718", "title": "Timeline of Istanbul", "text": "Timeline of Istanbul\n\nThe following is a of the history of the town of Istanbul, Turkey.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"This article incorporates information from the German Wikipedia and Turkish Wikipedia.\"\n\n\"See also: \"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "211539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211539", "title": "USS Vincennes (1826)", "text": "USS Vincennes (1826)\n\nUSS \"Vincennes\" (1826) was a 703-ton Boston-class sloop of war in the United States Navy from 1826 to 1865. During her service, \"Vincennes\" patrolled the Pacific, explored the Antarctic, and blockaded the Confederate Gulf coast in the Civil War. Named for the Revolutionary War Battle of Vincennes, she was the first U.S. warship to circumnavigate the globe.\n\n\"Vincennes\"—the first American ship to be so named—was one of ten sloops of war whose construction was authorized by Congress on 3 March 1825. She was laid down at New York in 1825, launched on 27 April 1826, and commissioned on 27 August 1826, with Master Commandant William Compton Bolton in command.\n\nThe ship set sail for the first time on 3 September 1826, from New York bound for the Pacific by way of Cape Horn. She cruised extensively in that ocean, visiting the Hawaiian islands in 1829 and made her way to Macau by 1830, under Commander William B. Finch. Her return voyage was made by way of China, the Philippines, the Indian Ocean, and the Cape of Good Hope. Ship chaplain Charles Samuel Stewart published a book about the voyage. After nearly four years, \"Vincennes\" arrived back in New York on 8 June 1830, becoming the first U.S. Navy ship to circumnavigate the Earth. Two days later the ship was decommissioned.\n\nFollowing repairs and recommissioned, \"Vincennes\" then operated in the West Indies and the Gulf of Mexico as part of the West Indies Squadron in 1831–32. After a long bout of yellow fever, she was decommissioned again for a time in 1833 before sailing once more.\n\nShe departed for a second Pacific deployment in 1833, becoming the first American warship to call at Guam. She again sailed around the globe to return to the U.S. East Coast in June 1836.\n\nDecommissioned once again in 1836, while she underwent remodeling, she was refitted with a light spar deck and declared the flagship of the South Sea Surveying and Exploring Expedition to the Antarctic region.\n\nCommanded by Lieutenant Charles Wilkes, the expedition sailed from Hampton Roads in August 1838, and made surveys along the South American coast before making a brief survey of Antarctica in early 1839. Entering into the South Pacific in August and September 1839, her cartographers drafted charts of that area that are still used today.\n\nFollowing survey operations and other scientific work along the west coast of South America and in the South Pacific during the rest of the year, in late 1839 \"Vincennes\" arrived at Sydney, Australia, her base for a pioneering cruise to Antarctica. She un-intentionally exposed the lack of defences and security at Sydney Harbour when she slipped un-noticed into Sydney Harbour on 30 November 1839 under the cover of darkness. Between mid-January and mid-February 1840, she operated along the icy coast of the southernmost continent. The coast along which the ship sailed is today known as Wilkes Land, a name given on maps as early as 1841.\n\nThe remainder of her deployment included visits to the islands of the South Pacific, Hawaii, the Columbia River area, Puget Sound, California, Wake Island, the Philippines and South Africa. This third voyage around the world ended at New York in June 1842.\n\n\"Vincennes\" was next assigned to the Home Squadron and placed under the command of Commander Franklin Buchanan, a distinguished officer destined to become the first Superintendent of the United States Naval Academy. She sailed to the West Indies and cruised off the Mexican coast until the summer of 1844. Though this duty proved relatively uneventful, \"Vincennes\" did rescue two grounded English brigs off the coast of Texas and received the thanks of the British government for this service. Buchanan was also ordered to prevent any attempted invasion by Mexico of the new Republic of Texas. This eventuality never materialized; and \"Vincennes\" returned to Hampton Roads on 15 August to enter dry dock.\n\nOn 4 June 1845, \"Vincennes\" sailed for the Far East under command of Captain Hiram Paulding. She was accompanied by the ship-of-the-line , under the command of Captain Thomas Wyman; and the two vessels formed a little squadron under the command of Commodore James Biddle, who carried a letter from Secretary of State John C. Calhoun to Caleb Cushing, American commissioner in China, authorizing Cushing to make the first official contact with the Japanese Government.\n\nThe squadron sailed for Macau by way of Rio de Janeiro and the Cape of Good Hope. Commodore Biddle arrived safely in Macau only to find that Cushing had already left for home and that his successor, Alexander H. Everett, was too ill to make the trip. Therefore, Biddle determined to conduct the negotiations himself.\n\nAccordingly, \"Vincennes\" and \"Columbus\" sailed for Japan on 7 July 1846 and anchored off Uraga on 19 July. The Japanese surrounded the vessels and allowed no one to land. Otherwise the visitors were treated with courtesy. However, Commodore Biddle's attempts to force the opening of feudal Japan to multinational trade were politely rebuffed, and the vessels weighed anchor on 29 July. \"Columbus\" returned to the United States by way of Cape Horn, but \"Vincennes\" remained on the China Station for another year before returning to New York on 1 April 1847. Here, she was decommissioned on the 9th, dry-docked, and laid up.\n\n\"Vincennes\" remained in ordinary until 1849. Recommissioned on 12 November 1849, she sailed from New York exactly one month later, bound for Cape Horn and the west coast of South America. On 2 July 1850, while lying off Guayaquil, Ecuador, she harbored the Ecuadoran revolutionary General Elizalde for three days during one of that country's frequent civil disturbances. Sailing on to San Francisco, California, the vessel lost 36 members of her crew to the gold fever sweeping California at the time. Turning south, \"Vincennes\" cruised off South America until late 1851, closely monitoring the activities of revolutionaries ashore.\n\nShe made a courtesy call to the Hawaiian Islands at the end of the year and proceeded thence to Puget Sound where she arrived on 2 February 1852. She anchored briefly there and returned via San Francisco and the Horn to New York where she arrived on 21 September and was decommissioned on the 24th.\n\nFollowing repairs and a period in ordinary, \"Vincennes\" was recommissioned on 21 March 1853 and sailed into Norfolk, Virginia on 13 May to join her second exploratory expedition, serving as flagship to Commander Cadwalader Ringgold's survey of the China Sea, the North Pacific, and the Bering Strait. Comdr. Ringgold was a veteran of the Wilkes expedition. The squadron stood out of Norfolk on 11 June 1853, rounded the Cape of Good Hope, and charted numerous islands and shoals in the Indian Ocean before arriving in China in March 1854. Here Commodore Matthew Calbraith Perry relieved Ringgold for medical reasons and gave command of the expedition to Lt. John Rodgers.\n\n\"Vincennes\" sailed on to survey the Bonin and Ladrone Islands and returned to Hong Kong in February 1855. The expedition sailed again in March and surveyed the islands between the Ryūkyū chain and Japan, and then the Kurils. \"Vincennes\" left the squadron at Petropavlovsk, Russia, and entered the Bering Strait, sailing through to the northwest towards Wrangel Island. Ice barriers prevented the vessel from reaching this destination, but she came closer than any other previous ship. \"Vincennes\" returned to San Francisco in early October and later sailed for the Horn and New York, where she arrived on 13 July 1856 to complete yet another circumnavigation of the globe.\n\n\"Vincennes\" operated with the African Squadron in 1857–1860.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the American Civil War in April 1861, \"Vincennes\" was recommissioned on 29 June and assigned to duty in the Gulf Blockading Squadron. She arrived off Fort Pickens, Florida, on 3 September, and was ordered to assist in the occupation of Head of Passes, Mississippi River, and remain there on blockade duty. Though the Federal warships did successfully deploy, on 12 October 1861 the Confederate metal-sheathed ram and armed steamers and drove the Union blockaders from Head of Passes in the Battle of the Head of Passes, forcing the Screw sloop-of-war and \"Vincennes\" aground. \"Vincennes\" was ordered abandoned and destroyed to prevent her capture, and her engineer set a slow match to the vessel's magazine while her men took refuge on other ships. However, her engineer cut the burning fuse and threw it overboard before the magazine could explode and, after the Confederate vessels withdrew early in the afternoon, \"Vincennes\" was refloated.\n\nAfter the Confederate attack, the Union sloop-of-war continued on blockade duty off the Passes of the Mississippi, capturing the blockade-running British bark \"Empress\", aground at North East Pass with a large cargo of coffee on 27 November. On 4 March 1862, she was ordered to proceed to Pensacola, Florida, to relieve and spent the next six months shuttling between Pensacola and Mobile, Alabama, performing routine patrol and reconnaissance duty. On 4 October, she was ordered to assume command of the blockade off Ship Island, Mississippi, and to guard the pass out of Mississippi Sound. While so deployed, boat crews from the vessel and captured the barge \"H. McGuin\" in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, on 18 July 1863. \"Vincennes\" also reported the capture of two boats laden with food on 24 December.\n\n\"Vincennes\" remained off Ship Island for the duration of the war and was laid up in ordinary at the Boston Navy Yard on 28 August 1865. The veteran world traveler was decommissioned in August 1865 and sold at public auction at Boston on 5 October 1867 for approximately $5,000.00, completing a career that made her one of the Navy's most widely traveled ships.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24938012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24938012", "title": "Vflo", "text": "Vflo\n\nV\"flo\" is a commercially available, physics-based distributed hydrologic model generated by Vieux & Associates, Inc. V\"flo\" uses radar rainfall data for hydrologic input to simulate distributed runoff. V\"flo\" employs GIS maps for parameterization via a desktop interface. The model is suited for distributed hydrologic forecasting in post-analysis and in continuous operations. V\"flo\" output is in the form of hydrographs at selected drainage network grids, as well as distributed runoff maps covering the watershed. Model applications include civil infrastructure operations and maintenance, stormwater prediction and emergency management, continuous and short-term surface water runoff, recharge estimation, soil moisture monitoring, land use planning, water quality monitoring, and water resources management.\n\nV\"flo\" considers the spatial character of the parameters and precipitation controlling hydrologic processes, and thus improves upon lumped representations previously used in hydrologic modeling. Historical practice has been to use lumped representations because of computational limitations or because sufficient data was not available to populate a distributed model database. Advances in computational speed; development of high-resolution precipitation data from radar and satellites; and availability of worldwide digital data sets and GIS technology makes distributed, physics-based modeling possible. V\"flo\" is designed to take advantage of the spatial variability of high resolution radar rainfall input, GIS datasets, and hydraulic channel characteristics. Because it is physics-based, it produces hydrographs based on conservation equations and the hydraulics of the drainage network, and can be employed in locations where there are no rain gauges or previous modeling studies. In addition, V\"flo\"’s network approach makes models scalable from upland watersheds to river basins using the same drainage network.\n\nV\"flo\" is suited for distributed hydrologic forecasting in post-analysis and continuous operations. V\"flo\" models may be calibrated by loading precipitation maps for historical events and comparing simulated volume/peak hydrographs to observed hydrographs. Elevation data are taken from a digital elevation model. A vector channel representation is employed. Parameterization utilizes digital data sets at any resolution, including LIDAR terrain data and other digital maps of impervious area, soils, and land use/cover. V\"flo\" is developed to utilize multi-sensor inputs from radar, satellites, rain gauges, or model forecasts. The kinematic wave analogy is used to represent hydraulic conditions in a watershed.\n\n\n"}
