{"id": "531233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=531233", "title": "A55 road", "text": "A55 road\n\nThe A55, also known as the North Wales Expressway (Welsh: \"Gwibffordd Gogledd Cymru\") is a major road in Britain. Its entire length from Chester to Holyhead is a dual carriageway primary route, with the exception of the Britannia Bridge over the Menai Strait and several short sections where there are gaps in between the two carriageways. All junctions are grade separated apart from a roundabout east of Penmaenmawr and another nearby in Llanfairfechan. Initially, the road ran from Chester to Bangor. In 2001, it was extended across Anglesey to the ferry port of Holyhead parallel to the A5 . The road improvements have been part funded with European money, under the Trans-European Networks programme, as the route is designated part of Euroroute E22 (Holyhead - Leeds - Amsterdam - Hamburg - Malmö - Riga - Moscow - Perm - Ekaterinburg - Ishim).\n\nThe A55 is sometimes called a motorway, because of its appearance, although it is not officially a motorway.\n\nThe A55 begins at junction 12, the southern end of the M53 motorway near Chester. It is known as the Chester southerly bypass. The A55 crosses the River Dee and the border into Wales, passing close to Broughton, Flintshire, and passing north of Buckley, Penyffordd and Northop. There is a major climb between Broughton and Buckley (Junctions 35a to 35) though with no crawler lane. Junction 34/33b is point at which the A494 converges and then diverges with the A55. The road briefly has a three-lane section as westbound traffic from Queensferry can leave towards Mold. In the eastbound direction another short three-lane section allows vehicles to join the A494 or exit onto the A55 to Chester. Traffic taking the A55 into England must negotiate a tight 270 degree speed-limited single lane curve to climb up and over the A55/A494. Plans to upgrade the A494 between this junction at Ewloe and Queensferry were rejected by the Welsh Government on 26 March 2008 due to their scale.\n\nFrom Ewloe, the road is relatively flat until after Northop when it climbs up onto the flanks of Halkyn Mountain range, passing to the southwest of Holywell with major climbs between Northop and Halkyn (Junctions 33 and 32b) and Halkyn and Holywell Summit (Junctions 32 and 31). This section of road is notorious for poor weather conditions including fog, ice and snow in winter months. In fine weather, however there are extensive views over the River Dee estuary to the Wirral Peninsula, Liverpool and beyond. The highest part of the road is in the vicinity of Brynford at around 790 feet (240 m). The steep descent towards St Asaph is down the new Rhuallt Hill (Junctions 29 to 28), which also provides the first views of the mountains of Snowdonia in the far distance. There is a crawler lane on Rhuallt Hill for eastbound traffic. The road bypasses St Asaph to the north, and runs past Bodelwyddan and Abergele to reach the North Wales coast at Pensarn (Junction 23A). From here onwards to Bangor, the route is close to the North Wales Coast railway.\n\nTwo sections between Llanddulas (Junction 23) to Conwy (Junction 17) are signed as a 70 mph (110 km/h) speed limit because they are classed as non-motorway special roads. Unlike other sections of the A55 that have National Speed Limit (NSL) signage and are accessible to all motor vehicles, motorway-style restrictions (although the A55 is not a motorway) apply on these stretches of road (e.g. no pedestrians, learner drivers, farm vehicles etc). As the section is not part of the UK motorway network, or classed as an all-purpose road (public right of way), the National Speed Limit does not apply so 70 mph (110 km/h) signs (the maximum speed permitted on UK roads) are used instead.\n\nA 50 mph (80 km/h) limit remains in force through the Colwyn Bay bypass (Old Colwyn to Mochdre). The restriction was imposed for several reasons. First as a safety precaution because the slip-roads on this stretch are unusually short due to the road's design. Part of it was built on a narrow swathe of land through the town that was once the North Wales coast railway; had to be rebuilt and the track bed realigned to complete the underpass. The former four-track railway was reduced to two more northerly tracks to make space for the road. Second the reduced speed limit was intended to reduce road noise for residents. However, since the completion of the Colwyn Bay bypass, the lower speed limit has been an unpopular decision with drivers.\n\nThe crossing of the estuary of the River Conwy is by means of an immersed tube tunnel, the first of its kind constructed in the United Kingdom. At 1060m, the tunnel is the longest road tunnel in Wales.\n\nThe decision to construct an immersed tube tunnel bypass followed an extensive public consultation, named the Collcon Feasibility Study. This ruled out another bridge by the castle on aesthetic grounds, since it would have damaged the view of the world heritage site Conwy Castle, and the two bridges by Robert Stephenson and Thomas Telford. Another alternative bridge crossing was proposed at Deganwy, but this too was ruled out for aesthetic reasons. An inland alternative with heavy grades which would have passed over Bwlch y Ddeufaen pass at , following the old Roman road, was also worked up but rejected for cost and utility reasons.\n\nThe tunnel was constructed by a Costain/Tarmac Construction joint venture, as pre-formed concrete sections, and then floated into position over a pre-prepared trench in the bed of the estuary. The 3 million tonnes of silt and mud extracted to create the trench in which the tunnel sections sat, were vacuumed to one side of the construction site, as to let them drift down river would have harmed the large mussel fishing beds downstream. The silt was deposited upstream of the bridge at Conwy which created a large new area of low-lying land which was subsequently given to the RSPB for a wildlife preserve. The casting basin for the tunnel sections was later converted into a new marina in the lower estuary. Because of the valuable fishery in the river and also because of the history of heavy metal mining in the catchment of the river, extensive ecological assessments were made both prior to the construction of the tunnel and subsequently. These studies finally concluded that no significant environmental damage had been caused.\n\nAfter five years of construction, the tunnel was opened in October 1991 by Queen Elizabeth II, the tunnel initially had an advisory speed limit, but this was dropped in 2007 as accidents were rare in the tunnels.\n\nLeaving Conwy in a westerly direction, the construction of this section has involved major civil engineering works because it crosses two major headlands: Penmaenbach Point and Penmaenan Point. Work has involved the cutting of several hard rock tunnels beneath the sea cliffs.\n\nThe first to be built in 1932 was the Penmaenbach Tunnel which carried motor traffic to Penmaenmawr. Two smaller tunnels through Penmaenan Point, opened 1935, carried the road onto Llanfairfechan. This new route, carrying traffic in both directions, relieved the original coach road built by Telford in the early 19th century. Cut into the cliffs by hand, this narrow, winding route hugged the contours around both steep headlands. Telford's route has now been converted into a cycleway across Penmaenbach and Penmaenan Points. Originally at the western end (Llanfairfechan) of the modern Pen-y-Clip tunnel, access was only allowed in an easterly direction because travelling the other way would mean heading the wrong way up the eastbound carriageway. However, in 2011 a purpose-built bridge - over the westbound carriageway - was constructed to allow unrestricted access to cyclists and walkers.\n\nThe 1930s alignment was used until a new two-lane Penmaenbach Tunnel opened in 1989 to carry westbound traffic. Eastbound traffic would now travel through the 1932 Penmaenbach Tunnel using both its original lanes. Four years later, work to build the Pen-y-clip tunnel was completed. Like at Penmaenbach it carried westbound traffic while the original road carried vehicles in the opposite direction. Both new routes were subject to an advisory 50 mph speed limit until these were lifted in 2007 as there had been few accidents.\n\nHowever traffic travelling eastbound on the 1930s cliffhugging route still faced speed restrictions at both tunnel locations. For instance the eastbound carriageway at Penmaenbach is subject to a 30 mph (50 km/h) speed limit due to sharp curves and double white lines nominally preclude lane changing. Plans to rectify the awkward alignment by building another tunnel parallel to the current westbound tunnel (as originally intended when the westbound tunnel was proposed) have been discussed for several years. The work in late-2007 at Penmaenbach eastbound has seen the erection of gantries to close lanes when bidirectional working is in place.\n\nSome sections of the rest of the route are of lower standard than that of those further east. Some traffic leaves for major holiday destinations such as Caernarfon or the Llŷn Peninsula, though much continues on to the port of Holyhead. As such part of the route is not classed as clearway and has two at grade junctions (roundabouts), Penmaenmawr (Junction 16) and Llanfairfechan (Junction 15). The Bangor bypass, in which the road previously terminated and became the A5 regains high standards and is such through the Anglesey section, bar the Britannia Bridge, which is a single carriageway deck above the North Wales Coast railway over the Menai Strait. In 2007 the Welsh Assembly Government undertook a consultation to determine which of four options would be preferred for a second crossing. This section intersects with the A487 towards Caernarfon, and the west coast of North Wales.\n\nThe final section of the A55 to be constructed was the Anglesey section. This 20 mile (32 km) section from the end of the Llanfairpwll bypass to Holyhead Harbour was constructed as Private Finance Initiative scheme where the builders, a Carillion / John Laing joint venture, earn a shadow toll based on usage and lane availability. They also have to maintain the road for the extended period of their shadow toll agreement. When travelling eastbound along this section there are fine views of Snowdonia. The approach to Holyhead required major work with a new section over the sea paralleling the Stanley Embankment that carries the original A5 and the North Wales Coast railway.\n\nWork started in early 2017 on the upgrading of the 1960s built substandard section of dual carriageway west of Abergwyngregyn from Tai'r Meibion towards Tan-y-lon, which is relatively narrow and prone to flooding. This includes mention of improvements to the A55 including the grade separation of the two roundabouts at Penmaenmawr and Llanfairfechan planned to be completed by 2021. In November 2012, the Welsh Government published two more detailed studies looking at options to improve transport in the North East Wales and the A55 / A494 areas. Possible changes to be considered further include\n\nThe A55 partly follows the alignment of the Roman road from Chester (Deva) to Caernarfon (Segontium), particularly from Junction 31 to 30 and Junction 13 to 12. Between Chester and Holywell the alignment of this road is uncertain and between St. Asaph and Abergwyngregyn, the Roman road followed an inland route, via Canovium Roman Fort at Caerhun, avoiding the difficulties of the crossing of the Conwy estuary and the cliffs at Penmaenbach and Pen-y-Clip.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are two large services on the A55, along with numerous other petrol stations at the side of the road. The two major services are:\n\nBangor Services\n(At J11) - Little Chef, Burger King, Travelodge, Esso, Costa Express\n\nGateway Services\nEastbound (After J33A) - Little Chef, Little Chef Express, Travelodge, Shell, Costa Express\nWestbound (After J33B) - Costa Coffee, Subway, McDonald's, OK Diner, Holiday Inn, Shell, Costa Express, Deli2Go\n\n| colspan=4 | Coordinate list\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264980", "title": "Administrative divisions of Romania", "text": "Administrative divisions of Romania\n\nRomania's administration is relatively centralized and administrative subdivisions are therefore fairly simplified.\n\nAccording to the Constitution of Romania, its territory is organized administratively into communes, towns and counties:\n\n\nBelow communal or town level, there are no further formal administrative subdivisions. However, communes are divided into villages (which have no administration of their own). There are 12,957 villages in Romania. The only exception is Bucharest, which has six sectors, each with an administration of its own.\n\nThe earliest organization into \"județe\" of the Principalities of Wallachia, respectively \"ținuturi\" of Moldavia, dates back at least to the early 15th century. Each \"județ\", respectively \"ținut\", was ruled by a \"jude\", respectively \"pârcălab\", an officially appointed person who had administrative and judicial functions in a manner inspired from the organization of the late Byzantine Empire. Transylvania, when it was part of the historic Kingdom of Hungary (in the Middle Ages), an independent Principality or a Habsburg domain (in the modern era until World War I) was divided into royal counties (Latin:\"comitatus\"), headed by \"comes\" (royal counts) with administrative and judicial functions. The term \"județ\" became used in Romanian universally for all principalities since mid-19th century.\nAfter modern Romania was formed in 1859 through the union of Wallachia and rump Moldavia, and then extended in 1918 through the union of Transylvania, as well as Bukovina and Bessarabia (parts of Moldavia temporarily acquired by the Habsburgs, 1775–1918, respectively the Russian Tsars, 1812–1917), the administrative division was modernized using the French departments system as an example. With the exception of the half of the Communist period, this system remained in place. Since 1864, for each \"județ\" there exists a \"prefect\" (from the Latin \"praefectus\"), a subordinate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who is the representative of the government in the county, and the head of the local administration in the areas not delegated to local authorities. Until 1948, each \"județ\" was further divided into a number of \"plăși\" (singular \"plasă\"), with each administered by a \"pretor\" (from the Latin \"praetor\"), appointed by the \"prefect\".\n\nIn 1913, as a result of the Second Balkan War, Romania acquired Southern Dobruja from Bulgaria, integrating this historical region within Romania's borders until 1940. In 1923 Romania adopted a new Constitution, and in 1927 it uniformized the traditional administrative systems of Transylvania, Bukovina and Bessarabia with that of the Romanian Old Kingdom. County borders were kept largely intact, with only a couple minor adjustments, as a total of 71 județe existed between 1927 and 1938.\n\nIn 1938, King Carol II modified the Constitution, and after that the law of administration of the Romanian territory. Ten \"ținuturi\" (approx. translation: \"lands\") were created, ruled by \"Rezidenți Regali\" (approx. translation \"Royal Residents\"), appointed directly by the Monarch. The ținuturi represented another layer of administration between counties and the country; county borders were not erased. But, due to World War II, the Second Vienna Award, the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact and the loss of territory that Romania suffered, this style of administration did not last, the administration at the \"județ\" level being reintroduced back until the establishment of communism in 1945-1947.\n\nDuring World War II, the territory of Romania suffered very significant modifications. In 1940, Soviet Union occupied Bessarabia, northern Bukovina, and Herza region which after the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, would become part of Republic of Moldova and of Ukraine. Between 1941-1944, these territories together with Transnistria, were administered by Romania briefly, as the country was governed by a military dictatorship allied with Nazi Germany. Transnistria consisted of formerly proper Soviet territory between Dniester and Southern Bug rivers. Nowadays, most of it is in Ukraine, with small parts in the Republic of Moldova (current Transnistria). This territory was kept under Romanian military occupation, and was not annexed to Romania consisted of a further 13 counties.\nAfter the war, the Communist Party took over the administration of the country. In 1950, the party changed the administration model to the Russian model (regions and raions), but it reverted to the current system in 1968, although county borders were quite different from the interbelic period. In 1981 the former counties of Ilfov and Ialomița were re-organised into the present-day counties of Giurgiu, Călărași, Ialomița and Ilfov. The county borders introduced in 1968 are largely in place, but administrative reform during the 1990s has devolved the functions of different authorities in line with transition from a totalitarian communist system to a modern democracy. The only territorial adjustment after 1989 occurred in 1995, when Ilfov County was formed. Before that it was a dependency of the Municipality of Bucharest (\"Sectorul Agricol Ilfov\").\n\nEight regional divisions (called \"development regions\") were created in 1998 in order to better co-ordinate regional development as Romania progressed towards accession to the European Union, and consist of several counties each. These correspond to NUTS II-level divisions in European Union member states, but do not actually have an administrative status and do not have a legislative or executive council or government. As of 2009, Romania is divided into 41 counties and one municipality which are assigned as NUTS III-level divisions. Currently, Romania has no NUTS-4 units, the counties being composed directly of cities (some of which with municipality status) and communes.\n\nAs in all modern democracies, the political power in Romania is divided into three independent branches: legislative, executive, and judicial. The \"prefect\" and his administration have only executive prerogatives. However, the territorial districts of the Romanian judicial system overlap with county borders, thus avoiding further complication. At the same time with local elections (of mayors and councilors for the cities and communes), a \"Consiliu județean\" (County Council) is elected for each county. From 2008 to 2016 a President of the County Council was also elected by direct vote, from 2016 he or she has been (as prior to 2008) elected by a Council. As of now, the legislative powers of county councils are quite reduced, but there are plans for more decentralization. (These plans, however, call for introduction of Regional Councils for the 8 development regions of the NUTS-2 level.)\n\nAs of 2010 there have been several proposals for the administrative reorganization of Romania made by the presidential commission tasked with the analysis of the political and constitutional regime. Most of these recommendations aim for the partial reestablishment of the counties in their pre-1950 form. The counties will be grouped into several regions (9 to 15) based on common historical and economic characteristics (NUTS II level). The regions will be in their turn clustered into 4-6 macroregions (NUTS I level). Furthermore, a NUTS IV level division, called plasă or canton will probably be added in order to meet the EU statistical and administrative requirements.\n\nAnother proposal, based on 15 autonomous euro-regions (amongst them one ethnic based region with a consistent Hungarian majority made of the existing Mureș, Harghita and Covasna counties) grouped into 5 statistical macroregions (NUTS I), was made by the Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania (UDMR).\n\nFor statistical and development purposes, Romania, in the NUTS scheme, is divided into:\n\nAn exception to this structure is the Municipality of Bucharest, which is a secondary division (rather than a tertiary division like other municipalities) and is officially divided into six sectors, each sector having a local government and council.\n\nThe eight development regions (specific territorial entities without administrative status or legal personality) represent the framework for collecting specific statistical data, according to the European regulations issued by Eurostat for the Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics (NUTS) II territorial level. According to the Emergency Government Ordinance No 75/2001 on the functioning of the National Institute for Statistics, eight Directorates General for regional statistics have been created, and together with the 34 county directorates for statistics, aim at developing regional statistics. Officially, the eight regions are Nord-Est (North-East), Sud-Est (South-East), Sud - Muntenia (South - Muntenia), Sud-Vest Oltenia (South-West Oltenia), Vest (West), Nord-Vest (North-West), Centru (Centre), and București - Ilfov (Bucharest - Ilfov). The criteria used by NCS for delimiting the regions is a combination of geographical location and homogeneity based on population density. Alternative historical names are also used, but remain unofficial.\n\n"}
{"id": "28553672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28553672", "title": "Australian and New Zealand Map Society", "text": "Australian and New Zealand Map Society\n\nThe Australian and New Zealand Map Society (ANZMapS), a society incorporated in Victoria, Australia, is a group of map producers, users and curators, which acts as a medium of communication for all those interested in maps. Membership of the ANZMapS is available to anyone who has an interest in maps.\n\nThe society was formed in 2009 by the merger of the Australian Map Circle (founded in 1973 as the Australian Map Curator's Circle), and the New Zealand Map Society (founded 1977).\n\nThe society holds an annual conference, publishes a peer-reviewed journal \"The Globe\" (ISSN 0311-3930), and a newsletter.\n\nThe purposes of the society are:\n\nSociety awards:\n\n"}
{"id": "13073371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13073371", "title": "Bellamy Cay", "text": "Bellamy Cay\n\nBellamy Cay is an island in the British Virgin Islands, located entirely within Trellis Bay on Beef Island. Formerly called Blanco Islet, this island is named after its most famous resident, \"Black Sam\" Bellamy, the \"prince of pirates\".\n\nFor much of his very short but wildly successful campaign of piracy in 1716 and 1717, Bellamy used this islet (which was named Blanco Islet at the time) as his base of operations, while crew members used the protection of Trellis Bay to maintain their fleet of ships. Bellamy soon learned that from Blanco, as well as from nearby Sprat Point, ships could be seen sailing through the Sir Francis Drake Channel. His favourite prey were Spanish Galleons laden with treasure intended for the exclusive use of the King & Queen of Spain.\n\nIn the early 1950s the small island was acquired by Władysław (Wladek) Wagner, the \"first Polish yachtsman,\" who left Poland in 1932 to sail around the world and who ended up eventually settling in Trellis Bay, Beef Island Tortola in the British Virgin Islands, where he built a boatyard and marine railway in addition to most of the buildings now standing on Bellamy Cay, where he ran a small restaurant and hotel.\n\nSince the 1970s, the cay has been the home of the restaurant and bar called \"The Last Resort\" – which for many years was owned and operated by Tony Snell, a British war hero. Bellamy Cay is near the Terrance B. Lettsome International Airport, and is inhabited by the owners and staff of the Restaurant. The Island remains off the power, water and communications grid of the mainland, producing its own electricity and water through solar, wind and diesel generators.\n\n"}
{"id": "3718729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3718729", "title": "Blake Basin", "text": "Blake Basin\n\nThe Blake Basin, also called the Blake–Bahama Basin, is a deep area of the Atlantic Ocean which runs along the east coast of the United States. It starts at the northern part of the Bahamas and continues up toward New York. Depth exceeds 5400 meters between the Blake Plateau and Blake Escarpment to the South and West, and the Blake Bahama Outer Ridge.\n"}
{"id": "31131639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31131639", "title": "Bulgarian toponyms in Antarctica (Z)", "text": "Bulgarian toponyms in Antarctica (Z)\n\nA | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | Y | Z\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3984096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3984096", "title": "Clock code", "text": "Clock code\n\nThe clock code is a method of mentally computing the sine of an angle between zero and sixty degrees. Pilots sometimes need to do this to estimate the heading correction due to the wind, and sailors may find it useful to do the same thing to allow for the current due to the tides.\n\nThe basic assumption is that for angles up to around 60°, it is adequately accurate to assume that sine(A) = A, when A is expressed as a fraction of 60. Thus, the sine of 30° = 30/60 = 1/2 = 0.5.\n\nThe clock code is a further method of visualising fractions of 60, since we are very used to expressing fractions of an hour (60 minutes) when telling the time.\n\nThus:\n\n\nThe angle is the angle of the wind or tide as it presents itself relative to the ship or aircraft, so if the wind is coming from the left at a relative angle of 30°, we use a sine of 0.5. Once the sine has been estimated, the drift due to wind or tide can be estimated accordingly by resolving the velocity of the wind or tide into a forward component and a sideways component. The sideways component is the windspeed x the sine, and the forward component is (1 - the sine) x windspeed (i.e. the cosine). Naturally we must apply these corrections to our groundspeed in the appropriate direction according to logic - a wind from the left will blow us off course in that direction; a headwind will slow our progress, a tailwind will increase it. Converting this back to a heading correction can be done using the 1 in 60 rule.\n\nFor wind angles greater than 60°, it is adequate to assume it's at 90°, i.e. a side wind.\n\nMore accurate corrections are done when possible, but in the particular case of a VFR pilot mentally calculating an unexpected diversion, using tables or the E6B slide rule in flight is usually not an option, so the clock code is one method of handling the required calculation without excessive error. In practice the wind strength can only be guessed or based on earlier reports, and the error due to the sine calculation will usually be much less than that due to the wind itself. Fine tuning of the heading can be done en route using the usual methods for doing so.\n\n"}
{"id": "294927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294927", "title": "Correlation function", "text": "Correlation function\n\nA correlation function is a function that gives the statistical correlation between random variables, contingent on the spatial or temporal distance between those variables. If one considers the correlation function between random variables representing the same quantity measured at two different points then this is often referred to as an autocorrelation function, which is made up of autocorrelations. Correlation functions of different random variables are sometimes called cross-correlation functions to emphasize that different variables are being considered and because they are made up of cross-correlations.\n\nCorrelation functions are a useful indicator of dependencies as a function of distance in time or space, and they can be used to assess the distance required between sample points for the values to be effectively uncorrelated. In addition, they can form the basis of rules for interpolating values at points for which there are no observations.\n\nCorrelation functions used in astronomy, financial analysis, econometrics, and statistical mechanics differ only in the particular stochastic processes they are applied to. In quantum field theory there are correlation functions over quantum distributions.\n\nFor possibly distinct random variables \"X\"(\"s\") and \"Y\"(\"t\") at different points \"s\" and \"t\" of some space, the correlation function is\n\nwhere formula_2 is described in the article on correlation. In this definition, it has been assumed that the stochastic variables are scalar-valued. If they are not, then more complicated correlation functions can be defined. For example, if \"X\"(\"s\") is a random vector with \"n\" elements and \"Y\"(t) is a vector with \"q\" elements, then an \"n\"×\"q\" matrix of correlation functions is defined with formula_3 element\n\nWhen \"n\"=\"q\", sometimes the trace of this matrix is focused on. If the probability distributions have any target space symmetries, i.e. symmetries in the value space of the stochastic variable (also called internal symmetries), then the correlation matrix will have induced symmetries. Similarly, if there are symmetries of the space (or time) domain in which the random variables exist (also called spacetime symmetries), then the correlation function will have corresponding space or time symmetries. Examples of important spacetime symmetries are —\n\nHigher order correlation functions are often defined. A typical correlation function of order \"n\" is\n\nIf the random vector has only one component variable, then the indices formula_3 are redundant. If there are symmetries, then the correlation function can be broken up into irreducible representations of the symmetries — both internal and spacetime.\n\nWith these definitions, the study of correlation functions is similar to the study of probability distributions. Many stochastic processes can be completely characterized by their correlation functions; the most notable example is the class of Gaussian processes. \n\nProbability distributions defined on a finite number of points can always be normalized, but when these are defined over continuous spaces, then extra care is called for. The study of such distributions started with the study of random walks and led to the notion of the Itō calculus.\n\nThe Feynman path integral in Euclidean space generalizes this to other problems of interest to statistical mechanics. Any probability distribution which obeys a condition on correlation functions called reflection positivity lead to a local quantum field theory after Wick rotation to Minkowski spacetime. The operation of renormalization is a specified set of mappings from the space of probability distributions to itself. A quantum field theory is called renormalizable if this mapping has a fixed point which gives a quantum field theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "31510140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31510140", "title": "Darwin Rise", "text": "Darwin Rise\n\nThe Darwin Rise is broad triangular region in the north central Pacific Ocean where there is a concentration of atolls.\n\nDuring his voyage across the globe Charles Darwin realised that vertical crustal motion must be responsible for the formation of continents and ocean basins, as well as isolated atolls in the Pacific. He deduced that the central basin of the Pacific had subsided while surrounding areas had risen. In 1964 U.S. geologist Henry Menard subsequently named the uplifted area in the Pacific after the English naturalist.\n\nCovering an area of , the Darwin Rise is limited to the east by the Izu-Bonin and Mariana trenches, to the west by the Line Islands.\nTwo major plateaux, the Shatsky Rise to the north and the Ontong Java Plateau to the south, border the Darwin Rise. How these plateaux relate to the rise remains disputed.\n\nThere are six major chains of seamounts on the rise — the Japanese, Magellan, Wake, Marshall Islands, Line Islands seamounts and the Mid-Pacific Mountains — and numerous minor clusters. The ages of these seamounts in general follow the motion of the Pacific Plate from 130 to 180 , as predicted by conventional hotspot theory, and decrease from west to east and north to south. This age-distance pattern is, however, not corroborated by the limited data available.\n\nIn 1964, Henry Menard proposed that this was a superswell raised by volcanism during the Cretaceous (120-80 mya). A problem with this conjecture is that this region actually has a sea floor at a normal depth that happens to possess an abundance of sea mounts.\n\nInstead this feature may have formed from diapirs or plumes rising from the Earth's upper mantle, which results in chains of sea mounts along the direction of the plate motion. However, this idea remains in dispute and an alternate hypothesis involving multiple \"plumelets\" has been proposed.\n\nIn the 1980s it was proposed that the Darwin Rise was the South Pacific Superswell 100 Ma and that the volcanoes of the Darwin Rise erupted over the same mantle region as the volcanoes of French Polynesia today. Hence, U.S. geologist Marcia McNutt proposed that the Darwin Rise is a palaeo-superswell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36758088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36758088", "title": "Diego de Arana", "text": "Diego de Arana\n\nDiego de Arana (Cordoba, Spain, 1468 - Haiti, 1493) was governor of the first documented Spanish settlement in the New World, at La Navidad.\n\nHe was a sailor of Castile who accompanied Christopher Columbus on his first voyage to America, where Arana was killed by natives.\n\nArana is described as a native of Córdoba in the journal of Columbus. \"The History of the Admiral\" by Ferdinand Columbus says Diego was the son of Rodrigo de Arana. He was a cousin of Beatriz Enriquez de Arana, who was the mistress of Christopher Columbus.\n\nIn early 1486, Columbus was living in the court of King Ferdinand V and Queen Isabella I in Seville, Spain. Columbus was trying to convince them to finance his \"Enterprise of the Indies\", a far reaching expedition to reach the east by going west. Columbus had knowledge of the Canaries Current and hoped he could reach the Indias by taking advantage of this ocean phenomenon. The monarchs were interested in Columbus's idea but were focused on the war in Granada against the Moors. Columbus was given subsistence and allowed to stay at the monarchs' castle in Cordoba as they thought he might have an idea that would provide riches and spread Christianity. While waiting for a decision and another meeting with the royals, Columbus patronized a local apothecary shop operated by people from Genoa, Italy. Columbus is believed to have come from the Genoa area and associated with doctors, physicians, surgeons, astronomers, scientists and others that also patronized the Genoese pharmacy. There he also became friends with a young Basque man: Diego de Arana.\n\nDiego had two orphaned cousins under the family's household, Beatriz Enríquez de Arana and her brother Pedro Enríquez de Arana. Their family was originally from Arana as was Diego's, a valley of Álava, Spain. Diego introduced Beatriz, a 20 (or 21) year old woman of Basque origin, to Columbus in 1487. At the time Columbus was 35. They became lovers and in August 1488 they had a son named Ferdinand Columbus (aka Hernando Colon). They never married. Diego's family, who adopted Beatriz, had a prosperous wine business. They may have helped Columbus with money for his expeditions.\n\nWhen Columbus left for his first voyage to the New World, he took Diego with him on the Santa Maria as the master-at-arms. The Santa Maria ran aground off the present-day site of Cap-Haïtien, Haiti on December 25, 1492, and was lost. Realizing that the ship was beyond repair, Columbus ordered his men to strip the timbers from the ship. The timbers from the ship were later used to build Môle Saint-Nicolas, which was originally called \"La Navidad\" (Christmas) because the wreck occurred on Christmas Day.\n\nFollowing the sinking of the Santa Maria and the temporary loss of the Pinta, Columbus, who longed to return to Spain to announce his discoveries, chose to leave behind 36 men who did not fit in the Nina for the return trip. Along with Diego de Arana were his lieutenants: Gutierrez, baker of the king's bench, Ferdinand Segovia, and Rodrigo de Escobedo, notary. For the defense of those men, the expedition built a fort, La Navidad, with the help of native Taino and timbers from the \"Santa Maria\". He appointed Diego de Arana as governor of the settlement. Columbus received permission from Guacanagaríx, the chief or cacique of the nearest tribe, to settle there.\n\nOn Friday, January 4, 1493, Columbus set sail in the \"Niña\" in search of the third ship in the fleet, the \"Pinta\". The \"Pinta\" was commanded by Martín Alonzo Pinzón and had been absent for six weeks. On the night of November 21, the caravel \"Pinta\" had vanished into the darkness off the coast of Cuba, and in his journal Columbus accused Pinzón of deliberately having separated the \"Pinta\" from the other ships in order to beat the admiral to the rich sources of gold which Columbus imagined were in the immediate area. On Sunday morning, January 6, 1493, the missing \"Pinta\" was spotted approaching from the east, and after a heated argument between the two men, the fleet returned to gather people and supplies for a return voyage.\n\nWhen Columbus came back from Spain during his second voyage, on November 27, 1493, he expected to see a bustling village. When he landed, however, he saw eleven corpses of his men on the beach and discovered that La Navidad had been destroyed. He was told by nearby Taínos that the settlers had mistreated the natives, who retaliated by killing the settlers. Other sources say there was insubordination within the colonists, which led to their deaths, including the death of Diego de Arana.\n\nDiego de Arana was played by Derek Bond in the 1949 film, \"Christopher Columbus\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36480147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36480147", "title": "Diyar Rabi'a", "text": "Diyar Rabi'a\n\nDiyār Rabī‘a (\"abode of Rabi'a\") is the medieval Arabic name of the easternmost and largest of the three provinces of the Jazira (Upper Mesopotamia), the other two being Diyar Bakr and Diyar Mudar. According to al-Baladhuri, all three provinces were named after the main Arab tribes that were settled there by Mu'awiyah in the course of the Muslim conquests of the 7th century. The Diyar Rabi'a was settled by the Rabi'a tribe, of which the Mudar were also a subgroup.\n\nDiyar Rabī‘a encompasses the upper reaches of the river Khabur and its tributaries, i.e. the regions of Tur Abdin and Beth Arabaye, as well as both shores of the river Tigris from the vicinity of Jazirat ibn Umar in the north to the boundary with Iraq in the area of Tikrit in the south, including the lower reaches of the Upper Zab and Lower Zab. The main city of the province was Mosul (Arabic al-Mawsil), with other important urban centres at Balad, Jazirat ibn Umar, al-Sinn, Barqa'id, Sinjar, Nasibin, Mardin and Ra's al-'Ayn. The region was plagued by the raids of the Qarmatians in the Umayyad and Abbasid periods. In the mid-10th century, it came under the control of the native Hamdanid dynasty, centred at Mosul. The Hamdanid emirate was terminated by the Buyids in 980, and the province passed under the control of the Uqaylids, who held it until the Seljuq conquest in the late 11th century.\n\nLike Diyar Bakir, despite the Arabic tribal name that signifies a previous Bedouin presence, The province of Diyar Rabia gradually became Kurdish, eventually becoming a minor Kurdish Chiefdom in the 18th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "58169347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58169347", "title": "Geology of Georgia (country)", "text": "Geology of Georgia (country)\n\nThe geology of Georgia is the study of rocks, minerals, water, landforms and geologic history in Georgia. The country is dominated by the Caucasus Mountains at the junction of the Eurasian Plate and the Afro-Arabian Plate, and rock units from the Mesozoic and Cenozoic are particularly prevalent. For much of its geologic history, until the uplift of the Caucasus, Georgia was submerged by marine transgression events. Geologic research for 150 years by Georgian and Russian geologists has shed significant light on the region and since the 1970s has been augmented with the understanding of plate tectonics. <ref></ref >\n\nThe Georgian Block in the Dzirula Massif is part of the Main Range zone of the Greater Caucasus and the Lesser Caucasus fold system. The south slope of the Greater Caucasus has exposed Paleozoic rocks in the Svaneti Zone, including black shale, phthanite chert, sandstones, turbidites, small amounts of marble and andesite or dacite volcanic rocks. These rocks, which belong to the Dizi Series are up to two kilometers thick and date to the Devonian, Carboniferous and Permian. Weakly metamorphosed Paleozoic sedimentary rocks are also found in the Dzirula Massif—namely, allochthon phyllite that contact Paleozoic granitoids and Precambrian gabbro, amphibolite and serpentinite. \n\nLate Carboniferous and Early Permian conglomerate, sandstone, limestone and argillite are identified by marine fossils. The Dzirula and Khrami massifs contain rhyolite and coal-bearing argillite. \n\nTriassic sediments such as quartz sandstone and siltstone, together with dacite and rhyolite are part of the Dizi Series, with thicknesses of 80 to 500 meters. Jurassic black shales, sandstone, turbidite and rhyolite sequences are up to five kilometers thick. \nIn the Late Jurassic, limestone and marl formed in a shallow marine environment, with alternating layers of basalt-andesite-dacite volcanic rocks exposed on the western edge of the Khrami Massif and in the Lock-Karabakh Zone. \n\nThe Early Cretaceous is marked by clastic limestone and greywacke siltstone flysch 750 meters to 1.6 kilometers thick in the Mestia-Tianeti flysch zone. Within the Georgian Block, the crystalline rocks of the Dzirula Massif are overlain by Early Cretaceous rocks 300 to 550 meters thick, primarily limestone but also glauconite sandstone, marl and clay. Elsewhere in the Adjara-Trialeti Zone, calc-alkaline basalt from the Albian is common. Within the Arthvin-Bolsini Block is a 1.2 kilometer sequence of carbonates, shallow water limestones and marl as well as tuff. \n\nIn the Cenozoic, greywacke and siltstone flysch, 600 to 850 meters thick, deposited during the Paleocene and Eocene. In the Georgian Block, limestone and marl from this period ranges between 30 and 400 meters thick. Turbidite, and both tholeiite and shoshonite basalt deposited during a Middle Eocene event, up to five kilometers thick. In the Locki Crystalline Massif, basalt, andesite, dacite and rhyolite up to 2.7 kilometers thick overlaps older Cretaceous and Jurassic rocks. \n\nMarl, clay and gravel are hallmarks of the Late Eocene in the Adjara-Trialeti Zone, grading to volcanic rocks in the west. Throughout the Oligocene, layers of gypsum bearing clays intermingled with sandstone and accumulated fish scales. This sequence continued to deposit into the Miocene and is exposed in the Gagra-Djava Zone. Marine molasse deposits with clays, sandstones, conglomerates, limestone and marl were laid down during the Miocene. River terraces, glacial moraines and volcanic rocks from the last 2.5 million years of the Quaternary are present, but erratically distributed. Georgia experienced three periods of glaciation during the Pleistocene. \n\nNortheastern Georgia has asymmetric, isoclinal folding on the southern slope and poorly folded, or monoclonal structures on the northern slope of the Greater Caucasus. Nappe structures are directed toward the south and are evidence of the underthrusting of the Georgian Block beneath the Greater Caucasus. The northern boundary of the Georgian Block is a deep fault, that manifests in the sedimentary cover. To the east, the overlying sedimentary rocks are detached and shifted towards the south, along with the nappes. \n\nThe Adjara-Trialeti Zone of the Lesser Caucasus is situated south of the Georgian Block and is anticlinorium with block-fold structures. There is an overthrust nappe along the northern margin of this zone, to the west of the Dzirula Massif. The Artvini-Bolnisi Block has two tectonic units. The gently folded Cenozoic volcanic rocks of the Javakhen Zone contain two seismic faults, associated with lava tubes. The Bolnisi Zone has the Khrami salient horst, with steep folds south of the sedimentary cover. \nThe northeast wedge of the Locki-Karabakh Zone is also situated in Georgia, with crystalline rock from before the Jurassic exposed in the Locki anticlinorium. \n\nGeorgia has deposits of iron and manganese ore, as well as rare, small deposits of copper, lead, zinc, tin, cobalt, astatine, and molybdenum. Oil, coal and peat deposits are found in some parts of the country. Barite, calcite, bentonite, diatomite, talc, zeolite, andesite, limestone, dolomite are all used in the chemical industry and some rocks, like chalcedony, spongolite and agate are used for building stones and paint. \n"}
{"id": "78534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78534", "title": "Geomorphology", "text": "Geomorphology\n\nGeomorphology (from Ancient Greek: γῆ, \"gê\", \"earth\"; μορφή, \"morphḗ\", \"form\"; and λόγος, \"lógos\", \"study\") is the scientific study of the origin and evolution of topographic and bathymetric features created by physical, chemical or biological processes operating at or near the Earth's surface. Geomorphologists seek to understand why landscapes look the way they do, to understand landform history and dynamics and to predict changes through a combination of field observations, physical experiments and numerical modeling. Geomorphologists work within disciplines such as physical geography, geology, geodesy, engineering geology, archaeology, climatology and geotechnical engineering. This broad base of interests contributes to many research styles and interests within the field.\n\nEarth's surface is modified by a combination of surface processes that shape landscapes, and geologic processes that cause tectonic uplift and subsidence, and shape the coastal geography. Surface processes comprise the action of water, wind, ice, fire, and living things on the surface of the Earth, along with chemical reactions that form soils and alter material properties, the stability and rate of change of topography under the force of gravity, and other factors, such as (in the very recent past) human alteration of the landscape. Many of these factors are strongly mediated by climate. Geologic processes include the uplift of mountain ranges, the growth of volcanoes, isostatic changes in land surface elevation (sometimes in response to surface processes), and the formation of deep sedimentary basins where the surface of the Earth drops and is filled with material eroded from other parts of the landscape. The Earth's surface and its topography therefore are an intersection of climatic, hydrologic, and biologic action with geologic processes, or alternatively stated, the intersection of the Earth's lithosphere with its hydrosphere, atmosphere, and biosphere.\n\nThe broad-scale topographies of the Earth illustrate this intersection of surface and subsurface action. Mountain belts are uplifted due to geologic processes. Denudation of these high uplifted regions produces sediment that is transported and deposited elsewhere within the landscape or off the coast. On progressively smaller scales, similar ideas apply, where individual landforms evolve in response to the balance of additive processes (uplift and deposition) and subtractive processes (subsidence and erosion). Often, these processes directly affect each other: ice sheets, water, and sediment are all loads that change topography through flexural isostasy. Topography can modify the local climate, for example through orographic precipitation, which in turn modifies the topography by changing the hydrologic regime in which it evolves. Many geomorphologists are particularly interested in the potential for feedbacks between climate and tectonics, mediated by geomorphic processes.\n\nIn addition to these broad-scale questions, geomorphologists address issues that are more specific and/or more local. Glacial geomorphologists investigate glacial deposits such as moraines, eskers, and proglacial lakes, as well as glacial erosional features, to build chronologies of both small glaciers and large ice sheets and understand their motions and effects upon the landscape. Fluvial geomorphologists focus on rivers, how they transport sediment, migrate across the landscape, cut into bedrock, respond to environmental and tectonic changes, and interact with humans. Soils geomorphologists investigate soil profiles and chemistry to learn about the history of a particular landscape and understand how climate, biota, and rock interact. Other geomorphologists study how hillslopes form and change. Still others investigate the relationships between ecology and geomorphology. Because geomorphology is defined to comprise everything related to the surface of the Earth and its modification, it is a broad field with many facets.\n\nGeomorphologists use a wide range of techniques in their work. These may include fieldwork and field data collection, the interpretation of remotely sensed data, geochemical analyses, and the numerical modelling of the physics of landscapes. Geomorphologists may rely on geochronology, using dating methods to measure the rate of changes to the surface. Terrain measurement techniques are vital to quantitatively describe the form of the Earth's surface, and include differential GPS, remotely sensed digital terrain models and laser scanning, to quantify, study, and to generate illustrations and maps.\n\nPractical applications of geomorphology include hazard assessment (such as landslide prediction and mitigation), river control and stream restoration, and coastal protection. Planetary geomorphology studies landforms on other terrestrial planets such as Mars. Indications of effects of wind, fluvial, glacial, mass wasting, meteor impact, tectonics and volcanic processes are studied. This effort not only helps better understand the geologic and atmospheric history of those planets but also extends geomorphological study of the Earth. Planetary geomorphologists often use Earth analogues to aid in their study of surfaces of other planets.\n\nOther than some notable exceptions in antiquity, geomorphology is a relatively young science, growing along with interest in other aspects of the earth sciences in the mid-19th century. This section provides a very brief outline of some of the major figures and events in its development.\n\nThe study of landforms and the evolution of the Earth's surface can be dated back to scholars of Classical Greece. Herodotus argued from observations of soils that the Nile delta was actively growing into the Mediterranean Sea, and estimated its age. Aristotle speculated that due to sediment transport into the sea, eventually those seas would fill while the land lowered. He claimed that this would mean that land and water would eventually swap places, whereupon the process would begin again in an endless cycle.\n\nAnother early theory of geomorphology was devised by the polymath Chinese scientist and statesman Shen Kuo (1031–1095 AD). This was based on his observation of marine fossil shells in a geological stratum of a mountain hundreds of miles from the Pacific Ocean. Noticing bivalve shells running in a horizontal span along the cut section of a cliffside, he theorized that the cliff was once the pre-historic location of a seashore that had shifted hundreds of miles over the centuries. He inferred that the land was reshaped and formed by soil erosion of the mountains and by deposition of silt, after observing strange natural erosions of the Taihang Mountains and the Yandang Mountain near Wenzhou. Furthermore, he promoted the theory of gradual climate change over centuries of time once ancient petrified bamboos were found to be preserved underground in the dry, northern climate zone of \"Yanzhou\", which is now modern day Yan'an, Shaanxi province.\n\nThe term geomorphology seems to have been first used by Laumann in an 1858 work written in German. Keith Tinkler has suggested that the word came into general use in English, German and French after John Wesley Powell and W. J. McGee used it during the International Geological Conference of 1891. John Edward Marr in his The Scientific Study of Scenery considered his book as, 'an Introductory Treatise on Geomorphology, a subject which has sprung from the union of Geology and Geography'.\n\nAn early popular geomorphic model was the \"geographical cycle\" or \"cycle of erosion\" model of broad-scale landscape evolution developed by William Morris Davis between 1884 and 1899. It was an elaboration of the uniformitarianism theory that had first been proposed by James Hutton (1726–1797). With regard to valley forms, for example, uniformitarianism posited a sequence in which a river runs through a flat terrain, gradually carving an increasingly deep valley, until the side valleys eventually erode, flattening the terrain again, though at a lower elevation. It was thought that tectonic uplift could then start the cycle over. In the decades following Davis's development of this idea, many of those studying geomorphology sought to fit their findings into this framework, known today as \"Davisian\". Davis's ideas are of historical importance, but have been largely superseded today, mainly due to their lack of predictive power and qualitative nature.\n\nIn the 1920s, Walther Penck developed an alternative model to Davis's. Penck thought that landform evolution was better described as an alternation between ongoing processes of uplift and denudation, as opposed to Davis's model of a single uplift followed by decay. He also emphasised that in many landscapes slope evolution occurs by backwearing of rocks, not by Davisian-style surface lowering, and his science tended to emphasise surface process over understanding in detail the surface history of a given locality. Penck was German, and during his lifetime his ideas were at times rejected vigorously by the English-speaking geomorphology community. His early death, Davis' dislike for his work, and his at-times-confusing writing style likely all contributed to this rejection.\n\nBoth Davis and Penck were trying to place the study of the evolution of the Earth's surface on a more generalized, globally relevant footing than it had been previously. In the early 19th century, authors – especially in Europe – had tended to attribute the form of landscapes to local climate, and in particular to the specific effects of glaciation and periglacial processes. In contrast, both Davis and Penck were seeking to emphasize the importance of evolution of landscapes through time and the generality of the Earth's surface processes across different landscapes under different conditions.\n\nDuring the early 1900s, the study of regional-scale geomorphology was termed \"physiography\". Physiography later was considered to be a contraction of \"physical\" and \"geography\", and therefore synonymous with physical geography, and the concept became embroiled in controversy surrounding the appropriate concerns of that discipline. Some geomorphologists held to a geological basis for physiography and emphasized a concept of physiographic regions while a conflicting trend among geographers was to equate physiography with \"pure morphology\", separated from its geological heritage. In the period following World War II, the emergence of process, climatic, and quantitative studies led to a preference by many earth scientists for the term \"geomorphology\" in order to suggest an analytical approach to landscapes rather than a descriptive one.\n\nDuring the age of New Imperialism in the late 19th century European explorers and scientists traveled across the globe bringing descriptions of landscapes and landforms. As geographical knowledge increased over time these observations were systematized in a search for regional patterns. Climate emerged thus as prime factor for explaining landform distribution at a grand scale. The rise of climatic geomorphology was foreshadowed by the work of Wladimir Köppen, Vasily Dokuchaev and Andreas Schimper. William Morris Davis, the leading geomorphologist of his time, recognized the role of climate by complementing his \"normal\" temperate climate cycle of erosion with arid and glacial ones. Nevertheless, interest in climatic geomorphology was also a reaction \"against\" Davisian geomorphology that was by the mid-20th century considered both un-innovative and dubious. Early climatic geomorphology developed primarily in continental Europe while in the English-speaking world the tendency was not explicit until L.C. Peltier's 1950 publication on a periglacial cycle of erosion.\n\nClimatic geomorphology was criticized in a 1969 review article by process geomorphologist D.R. Stoddart. The criticism by Stoddart proved \"devastating\" sparking a decline in the popularity of climatic geomorphology in the late 20th century. Stoddart criticized climatic geomorphology for applying supposedly \"trivial\" methodologies in establishing landform differences between morphoclimatic zones, being linked to Davisian geomorphology and by allegedly neglecting the fact that physical laws governing processes are the same across the globe. In addition some conceptions of climatic geomorphology, like that which holds that chemical weathering is more rapid in tropical climates than in cold climates proved to not be straightforwardly true.\n\nGeomorphology was started to be put on a solid quantitative footing in the middle of the 20th century. Following the early work of Grove Karl Gilbert around the turn of the 20th century, a group of mainly American natural scientists, geologists and hydraulic engineers including William Walden Rubey, Ralph Alger Bagnold, Hans Albert Einstein, Frank Ahnert, John Hack, Luna Leopold, A. Shields, Thomas Maddock, Arthur Strahler, Stanley Schumm, and Ronald Shreve began to research the form of landscape elements such as rivers and hillslopes by taking systematic, direct, quantitative measurements of aspects of them and investigating the scaling of these measurements.. These methods began to allow prediction of the past and future behavior of landscapes from present observations, and were later to develop into the modern trend of a highly quantitative approach to geomorphic problems. Many groundbreaking and widely cited early geomorphology studies appeared in the Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, and received only few citations prior to 2000 (they are examples of \"sleeping beauties\") when a marked increase in quantitative geomorphology research occurred.\n\nQuantitative geomorphology can involve fluid dynamics and solid mechanics, geomorphometry, laboratory studies, field measurements, theoretical work, and full landscape evolution modeling. These approaches are used to understand weathering and the formation of soils, sediment transport, landscape change, and the interactions between climate, tectonics, erosion, and deposition.\n\nIn Sweden Filip Hjulström's doctoral thesis, \"The River Fyris\" (1935), contained one of the first quantitative studies of geomorphological processes ever published. His students followed in the same vein, making quantitative studies of mass transport (Anders Rapp), fluvial transport (Åke Sundborg), delta deposition (Valter Axelsson), and coastal processes (John O. Norrman). This developed into \"the Uppsala School of Physical Geography\".\n\nToday, the field of geomorphology encompasses a very wide range of different approaches and interests. Modern researchers aim to draw out quantitative \"laws\" that govern Earth surface processes, but equally, recognize the uniqueness of each landscape and environment in which these processes operate. Particularly important realizations in contemporary geomorphology include:\n\n1) that not all landscapes can be considered as either \"stable\" or \"perturbed\", where this perturbed state is a temporary displacement away from some ideal target form. Instead, dynamic changes of the landscape are now seen as an essential part of their nature.\n\n2) that many geomorphic systems are best understood in terms of the stochasticity of the processes occurring in them, that is, the probability distributions of event magnitudes and return times. This in turn has indicated the importance of chaotic determinism to landscapes, and that landscape properties are best considered statistically. The same processes in the same landscapes do not always lead to the same end results.\n\nAlbeit having its importance diminished climatic geomorphology continues to exist as field of study producing relevant research. More recently concerns over global warming have led to a renewed interest in the field.\n\nDespite considerable criticism the cycle of erosion model has remained part of the science of geomorphology. The model or theory has never been proved wrong, but neither has it been proven. The inherent difficulties of the model have instead made geomorphological research to advance along other lines. In contrast to its disputed status in geomorphology, the cycle of erosion model is a common approach used to establish denudation chronologies, and is thus an important concept in the science of historical geology. While acknowledging its shortcomings modern geomorphologists Andrew Goudie and Karna Lidmar-Bergström have praised it for its elegance and pedagogical value respectively.\n\nGeomorphically relevant processes generally fall into\n(1) the production of regolith by weathering and erosion, \n(2) the transport of that material, and \n(3) its eventual deposition. Primary surface processes responsible for most topographic features include wind, waves, chemical dissolution, mass wasting, groundwater movement, surface water flow, glacial action, tectonism, and volcanism. Other more exotic geomorphic processes might include periglacial (freeze-thaw) processes, salt-mediated action, marine currents activity, seepage of fluids through the seafloor or extraterrestrial impact.\n\nAeolian processes pertain to the activity of the winds and more specifically, to the winds' ability to shape the surface of the Earth. Winds may erode, transport, and deposit materials, and are effective agents in regions with sparse vegetation and a large supply of fine, unconsolidated sediments. Although water and mass flow tend to mobilize more material than wind in most environments, aeolian processes are important in arid environments such as deserts.\n\nThe interaction of living organisms with landforms, or biogeomorphologic processes, can be of many different forms, and is probably of profound importance for the terrestrial geomorphic system as a whole. Biology can influence very many geomorphic processes, ranging from biogeochemical processes controlling chemical weathering, to the influence of mechanical processes like burrowing and tree throw on soil development, to even controlling global erosion rates through modulation of climate through carbon dioxide balance. Terrestrial landscapes in which the role of biology in mediating surface processes can be definitively excluded are extremely rare, but may hold important information for understanding the geomorphology of other planets, such as Mars.\n\nRivers and streams are not only conduits of water, but also of sediment. The water, as it flows over the channel bed, is able to mobilize sediment and transport it downstream, either as bed load, suspended load or dissolved load. The rate of sediment transport depends on the availability of sediment itself and on the river's discharge. Rivers are also capable of eroding into rock and creating new sediment, both from their own beds and also by coupling to the surrounding hillslopes. In this way, rivers are thought of as setting the base level for large-scale landscape evolution in nonglacial environments. Rivers are key links in the connectivity of different landscape elements.\n\nAs rivers flow across the landscape, they generally increase in size, merging with other rivers. The network of rivers thus formed is a drainage system. These systems take on four general patterns: dendritic, radial, rectangular, and trellis. Dendritic happens to be the most common, occurring when the underlying stratum is stable (without faulting). Drainage systems have four primary components: drainage basin, alluvial valley, delta plain, and receiving basin. Some geomorphic examples of fluvial landforms are alluvial fans, oxbow lakes, and fluvial terraces.\n\nGlaciers, while geographically restricted, are effective agents of landscape change. The gradual movement of ice down a valley causes abrasion and plucking of the underlying rock. Abrasion produces fine sediment, termed glacial flour. The debris transported by the glacier, when the glacier recedes, is termed a moraine. Glacial erosion is responsible for U-shaped valleys, as opposed to the V-shaped valleys of fluvial origin.\n\nThe way glacial processes interact with other landscape elements, particularly hillslope and fluvial processes, is an important aspect of Plio-Pleistocene landscape evolution and its sedimentary record in many high mountain environments. Environments that have been relatively recently glaciated but are no longer may still show elevated landscape change rates compared to those that have never been glaciated. Nonglacial geomorphic processes which nevertheless have been conditioned by past glaciation are termed paraglacial processes. This concept contrasts with periglacial processes, which are directly driven by formation or melting of ice or frost.\n\nSoil, regolith, and rock move downslope under the force of gravity via creep, slides, flows, topples, and falls. Such mass wasting occurs on both terrestrial and submarine slopes, and has been observed on Earth, Mars, Venus, Titan and Iapetus.\n\nOngoing hillslope processes can change the topology of the hillslope surface, which in turn can change the rates of those processes. Hillslopes that steepen up to certain critical thresholds are capable of shedding extremely large volumes of material very quickly, making hillslope processes an extremely important element of landscapes in tectonically active areas.\n\nOn the Earth, biological processes such as burrowing or tree throw may play important roles in setting the rates of some hillslope processes.\n\nBoth volcanic (eruptive) and plutonic (intrusive) igneous processes can have important impacts on geomorphology. The action of volcanoes tends to rejuvenize landscapes, covering the old land surface with lava and tephra, releasing pyroclastic material and forcing rivers through new paths. The cones built by eruptions also build substantial new topography, which can be acted upon by other surface processes. Plutonic rocks intruding then solidifying at depth can cause both uplift or subsidence of the surface, depending on whether the new material is denser or less dense than the rock it displaces.\n\nTectonic effects on geomorphology can range from scales of millions of years to minutes or less. The effects of tectonics on landscape are heavily dependent on the nature of the underlying bedrock fabric that more or less controls what kind of local morphology tectonics can shape. Earthquakes can, in terms of minutes, submerge large areas of land creating new wetlands. Isostatic rebound can account for significant changes over hundreds to thousands of years, and allows erosion of a mountain belt to promote further erosion as mass is removed from the chain and the belt uplifts. Long-term plate tectonic dynamics give rise to orogenic belts, large mountain chains with typical lifetimes of many tens of millions of years, which form focal points for high rates of fluvial and hillslope processes and thus long-term sediment production.\n\nFeatures of deeper mantle dynamics such as plumes and delamination of the lower lithosphere have also been hypothesised to play important roles in the long term (> million year), large scale (thousands of km) evolution of the Earth's topography (see dynamic topography). Both can promote surface uplift through isostasy as hotter, less dense, mantle rocks displace cooler, denser, mantle rocks at depth in the Earth.\n\nMarine processes are those associated with the action of waves, marine currents and seepage of fluids through the seafloor. Mass wasting and submarine landsliding are also important processes for some aspects of marine geomorphology. Because ocean basins are the ultimate sinks for a large fraction of terrestrial sediments, depositional processes and their related forms (e.g., sediment fans, deltas) are particularly important as elements of marine geomorphology.\n\nDifferent geomorphological processes dominate at different spatial and temporal scales. Moreover, scales on which processes occur may determine the reactivity or otherwise of landscapes to changes in driving forces such as climate or tectonics. These ideas are key to the study of geomorphology today.\n\nTo help categorize landscape scales some geomorphologists might use the following taxonomy:\n\nThere is a considerable overlap between geomorphology and other fields. Deposition of material is extremely important in sedimentology. Weathering is the chemical and physical disruption of earth materials in place on exposure to atmospheric or near surface agents, and is typically studied by soil scientists and environmental chemists, but is an essential component of geomorphology because it is what provides the material that can be moved in the first place. Civil and environmental engineers are concerned with erosion and sediment transport, especially related to canals, slope stability (and natural hazards), water quality, coastal environmental management, transport of contaminants, and stream restoration. Glaciers can cause extensive erosion and deposition in a short period of time, making them extremely important entities in the high latitudes and meaning that they set the conditions in the headwaters of mountain-born streams; glaciology therefore is important in geomorphology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27436495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27436495", "title": "Glenn Thomas Trewartha", "text": "Glenn Thomas Trewartha\n\nHe graduated from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, with a Ph.D. in 1924. He taught at the University of Wisconsin.\n\nHe gave an address to the Association of American Geographers, \"A Case for Population Geography.\"\nHe also wrote about climate, explaining that the atmosphere was like \"a pane of glass in a greenhouse... thus maintaining surface temperatures considerably higher than they otherwise would be.\"\n\n\n\nTrewartha climate classification\n\n"}
{"id": "7898548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7898548", "title": "Green Actors of West Africa", "text": "Green Actors of West Africa\n\nGreen Actors of West Africa (GAWA) is a network of environmental organizations from West Africa created in 2005. The goal of GAWA Network is to develop ways of enhancing cooperation and coordination between and among the various donors and environmental (nature conservation) actors in this sub-African region.\n\nThe geographic coverage of GAWA network members includes: Benin, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, The Gambia, and Togo.\n\nThe initial concept of Green Actors in West Africa was first discussed in September 2004 during a meeting of NC-IUCN’s West African partners in Aburi, Ghana. In a later meeting in April 2005 in Cotonou, Benin, the decision was reached to formalize the network.\n\nGAWA is thus a network of environmental non-governmental organizations (NGOs) involved in environmental protection, rehabilitation, awareness raising, biodiversity conservation and natural resource management.\n\nDuring 2005-2006, members of the network decided to focus their efforts on:\n\nThe Netherlands Committee of IUCN (NC-IUCN) through the Tropical Rainforest Programme (TRP) and Dry Areas Support funds has been very instrumental in initiating the regional network. Through direct budget support to its regional focal point, the Environmental Foundation for Africa, NC-IUCN have enabled all country assessments, holding of regional network meetings and capacity building training programmes for their partners in the sub-region.\n\n"}
{"id": "55962826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55962826", "title": "Grey Ukraine", "text": "Grey Ukraine\n\nGrey Ukraine (also: Grey Klin - \"Siryi Klyn\"; Ukrainian: Сірий Клин, also: Сіра Україна - \"Grey Ukraine\"; Russian: Серый Клин) is an unofficial name for a region in Southern Siberia and Northern Kazakhstan, where there was mass settlement by Ukrainians at the end of the 19th and the beginning of the 20th century. 1917-1920 there was a movement for a Ukrainian autonomy in the region.\n\nThe Ukrainian settlement of Siryi Klyn (literally: the \"grey wedge\") developed around the city of Omsk in western Siberia. M. Bondarenko, an emigrant from Poltava province, wrote before World War I: \"The city of Omsk looks like a typical Moscovite city, but the bazaar and markets speak Ukrainian\". All around the city of Omsk stood Ukrainian villages. The settlement of people beyond the Ural mountains began in the 1860s. Altogether before 1914 1,604,873 emigrants from Ukraine settled the area.\n\nHistorical Grey Ukraine exists roughly within the present-day northern Kazakhstan and southern Siberia. It is not contiguous with other territories inhabited by Ukrainian diaspora. A similar situation of territorial isolation exists with the Green Ukraine.\n\nMost of the Ukrainian migrations to Siberia happened during the late 19th century and early 20th century. However, the migrations continued throughout the Soviet period. Nikita Khrushchev's virgin lands campaign during the 1950s managed to encourage the migration.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Russian census, 77,884 people of the Omsk region identified themselves as Ukrainians, making Ukrainians the third-largest ethnic group there, after Russians and Kazakhs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58188128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58188128", "title": "Hostile Takeover: How Islam Impedes Progress and Threatens Society", "text": "Hostile Takeover: How Islam Impedes Progress and Threatens Society\n\nThe book Feindliche Übernahme: Wie der Islam den Fortschritt behindert und die Gesellschaft bedroht (\"Hostile Takeover: How Islam Impedes Progress and Threatens Society\") was written by the German politician Thilo Sarrazin of the Social Democratic Party of Germany. It is published by the Finanzbuch Verlag (a member of the Münchener Verlagsgruppe GmbH) and has been released at the 30 August 2018. The book made it to #1 of the \"Spiegel bestseller list\", which is listing the best selling books in Germany per week.\n\nThilo Sarrazin's best-known book \"Deutschland schafft sich ab: Wie wir unser Land aufs Spiel setzen\" (translated as: \"Germany abolishes itself: How we are putting our country at a risk\"), in which he criticizes Islam and migration, was published in 2010. On publication, the book was immediately condemned by Angela Merkel and members of her government as \"discriminatory\". The Bundesbank, for whom Sarrazin worked, distanced itself from the author, saying that his remarks violated the bank's code of conduct were harmful to its reputation.\n\nAt that time, the Turkish-German writer and sociologist Necla Kelek, who accompanied Sarrazin at the launch, said that Sarrazin was \"doing Germany a service\" and that she shared his concerns about the future of the country. \"(He) is calling on us Muslims to reflect on the role we play in Germany,\" she said. \"To accuse him of racism is absurd, because Islam is not a race, but a culture and a religion.\" \n\nThe launch of Sarrazin's new book was given police protection. Heinz Buschkowsky, a former SPD politician, stated that he does not agree with every thesis in the book, but, out of his knowledge as former district mayor of Neukölln, Berlin, he shared Sarrazin's views. Kevin Kühnert, chairman of the SPD's Young Socialists' group Jusos, demanded new party procedures to allow Sarrazin's exclusion, and the SPD leadership distanced itself from him.\n\nA first detailed review of this book, in which she accuses Sarrazin of many factual errors, was published on the day of publication by the Freiburg scholar Johanna Pink in \"Die Zeit\".\n\nUlrich von Schwerin describes Sarrazin's question in the \"Stuttgarter Zeitung\" as legitimate, but his results as a \"distorted image\". Von Schwerin says that of Sarrazin that:\"His whole book shows that he is not concerned with helping shape peaceful coexistence, but rather with the strict separation of peoples and stopping the immigration of Muslims.\n\nSonja Zekri, writing in \"Tages Anzeiger\", said that \"For him, Islam is not a faith, exposed to the stream of history and changeable, but a fate, a genetic defect that leads to intolerance and \"below average educational achievements\",\" adding that \"Germany needs this book as much as an Ebola outbreak, and yet success is inevitable.\"\n\nSeveral bestsellers authored by Thilo Sarrazin have been published by the Deutsche Verlags-Anstalt, a member of the Random House group. They declined to publish his 2018 book, claiming that he had rejected proofreading of his work by an expert − a claim the publisher had to take back in court, after Sarrazin had proven it to be a falsehood. Sarrazin filed a lawsuit over 800,000 Euro claiming defamation.\n"}
{"id": "40464294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40464294", "title": "Hydrologic Research Center (US)", "text": "Hydrologic Research Center (US)\n\nHydrologic Research Center (HRC), founded in 1993, is a public-benefit non-profit research, technology transfer, and science cooperation and education organization, dedicated to the development of effective and sustainable solutions to global water issues. HRC’s purpose is to provide a conduit for academic and other up-to-date research to be made suitable for effective application to field operational problems that involve water management and flood disaster mitigation.\nThe vision of HRC is to assist in limiting societal vulnerability and preserving resiliency in basic human needs, livelihoods, agriculture, water resources, healthy ecosystems, and natural resources. Around the world flash flooding and flooding are the most common natural disasters and the leading cause of natural disaster fatalities worldwide – 40% of all natural disasters.\n\nHRC partners with local governments in 50 countries (2.2 billion people) and other trusted nongovernmental organizations to promote sustainable programs that include education in flash floods, management of water resources, and the development of Flash Flood Guidance Systems to provide vital early warning of flash floods.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2571938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2571938", "title": "Jacob's staff", "text": "Jacob's staff\n\nThe term Jacob's staff, also known as cross-staff, a ballastella, a fore-staff, or a balestilha, is used to refer to several things. In its most basic form, a Jacob's staff is a stick or pole with length markings; most staffs are much more complicated than that, and usually contain a number of measurement and stabilization features. The two most frequent uses are:\n\nThe simplest use of a Jacob's staff is to make qualitative judgements of the height and angle of an object relative to the user of the staff.\n\nIn navigation the instrument is also called a cross-staff and was used to determine angles, for instance the angle between the horizon and Polaris or the sun to determine a vessel's latitude, or the angle between the top and bottom of an object to determine the distance to said object if its height is known, or the height of the object if its distance is known, or the horizontal angle between two visible locations to determine one's point on a map.\n\nThe Jacob's staff, when used for astronomical observations, was also referred to as a radius astronomicus. With the demise of the cross-staff, in the modern era the name \"Jacob's staff\" is applied primarily to the device used to provide support for surveyor's instruments.\n\nThe origin of the name of the instrument is not certain. Some refer to the Biblical patriarch Jacob, specifically . It may also take its name after its resemblance to Orion, referred to by the name of Jacob on some medieval star charts. Another possible source is the Pilgrim's staff, the symbol of St James (Jacobus in Latin). The name \"cross staff\" simply comes from its cruciform shape.\n\nThe original Jacob's staff was developed as a single pole device in the 14th century that was used in making astronomical measurements. It was first described by the French-Jewish mathematician Levi ben Gerson of Provence, in his \"Book of the Wars of the Lord\" translated in Latin as well as Hebrew. He used a Hebrew name for the staff that translates to “Revealer of Profundities.” The term “Jacob’s staff” was not used by Ben Gerson himself but by his Christian contemporaries. However, its invention was likely due to fellow French-Jewish astronomer Jacob ben Makir who also lived in Provence in the same period. Attributions to 15th century Austrian astronomer Georg Purbach are less likely correct, since Purbach was not born until 1423. Such attributions may refer to a different instrument with the same name. May states that its origins can be traced to the Chaldeans around 400 BC.\n\nAlthough it has become quite accepted that ben Gerson first described Jacob's staff, the British Sinologist Joseph Needham theorizes that the Song Dynasty Chinese scientist Shen Kuo (1031–1095), in his \"Dream Pool Essays\" of 1088, described a Jacob's staff. Shen was an antiquarian interested in ancient objects; after he unearthed an ancient crossbow-like device from a home's garden in Jiangsu, he realized it had a sight with a graduated scale that could be used to measure the heights of distant mountains, likening it to how mathematicians measure heights by using right-angle triangles. He wrote that when one viewed the whole breadth of a mountain with it, the distance on the instrument was long; when viewing a small part of the mountainside, the distance was short; this, he wrote, was due to the cross piece that had to be pushed further away from the eye, while the graduation started from the further end. Needham does not mention any practical application of this observation.\n\nDuring the medieval European Renaissance, the Dutch mathematician and surveyor Metius is known to have developed his own Jacob's staff. Fellow Dutch mathematician Gemma Frisius is also known to have made improvements to this instrument. The German mathematician Johannes Müller, called Regiomontanus, made the Jacob's staff in the 15th century to a popular instrument in geodesic and astronomical measurements.\n\nIn the original form of the cross-staff, the pole or main staff was marked with graduations for length. The cross-piece (\"BC\" in the drawing to the right), also called the \"transom\" or \"transversal\", slides up and down on the main staff. On older instruments, the ends of the transom were cut straight across. Newer instruments had brass fittings on the ends with holes in the brass for observation. In marine archaeology, these fittings are often the only components of a cross-staff that survive.\n\nIt was common to provide several transoms, each with a different range of angles it would measure. Three transoms were common. In later instruments, separate transoms were switched in favour of a single transom with pegs to indicate the ends. These pegs mounted in one of several pairs of holes symmetrically located on either side of the transom. This provided the same capability with fewer parts. The transom on Frisius' version had a sliding vane on the transom as an end point.\n\nThe navigator places one end of the main staff against his cheek just below his eye. He sights the horizon at the end of the lower part of the transom (or through the hole in the brass fitting) (\"B\"), adjusting the cross arm on the main arm until the sun is at the other end of the transom (\"C\"). The altitude can then be determined by reading the position of the transom on the scale on the main staff. This value was converted to an angular measurement by looking up the value in a table.\n\nThe original version was not reported to be used at sea, until the Age of Discoveries. Its use was reported by João de Lisboa in his \"Treatise on the Nautical Needle\" of 1514. Johannes Werner suggested the cross-staff be used at sea in 1514 and improved instruments were introduced for use in navigation. John Dee introduced it to England in the 1550s. In the improved versions, the rod was graduated directly in degrees. This variant of the instrument is not correctly termed a \"Jacob's staff\" but is a cross-staff.\n\nThe cross-staff was difficult to use. In order to get consistent results, the observer had to position the end of the pole precisely against his cheek. He had to observe the horizon and a star in two different directions while not moving the instrument when he shifted his gaze from one to the other. In addition, observations of the sun required the navigator to look directly at the sun. This could be a painful exercise and made it difficult to obtain an accurate altitude for the sun. Mariners took to mounting smoked-glass to the ends of the transoms to reduce the glare of the sun.\n\nAs a navigational tool, this instrument was eventually replaced, first by the backstaff or quadrant, neither of which required the user to stare directly into the sun, and later by the octant and the sextant. Perhaps influenced by the backstaff, some navigators modified the cross-staff to operate more like the former. Vanes were added to the ends of the longest cross-piece and another to the end of the main staff. The instrument was reversed so that the shadow of the upper vane on the cross piece fell on the vane at the end of the staff. The navigator held the instrument so that he would view the horizon lined up with the lower vane and the vane at the end of the staff. By aligning the horizon with the shadow of the sun on the vane at the end of the staff, the elevation of the sun could be determined. This actually increased the accuracy of the instrument, as the navigator no longer had to position the end of the staff precisely on his cheek.\n\nAnother variant of the cross-staff was a spiegelboog, invented in 1660 by the Dutchman, Joost van Breen.\n\nUltimately, the cross-staff could not compete with the backstaff in many countries. In terms of handling, the backstaff was found to be more easy to use. However, it has been proven by several authors that in terms of accuracy, the cross-staff was superior to the backstaff. Backstaves were no longer allowed on board Dutch East India Company vessels as per 1731, with octants not permitted until 1748.\n\nIn surveying the \"Jacob's staff\", contemporaneously referred to as a \"jacob staff\", is a single straight rod or staff made of nonferrous material, pointed and metal-clad at the bottom for penetrating the ground. It also has a screw base and occasionally a ball joint on the mount, and is used for supporting a compass, transit, or other instrument.\n\nThe term \"cross-staff\" may also have a different meaning in the history of surveying. While the astronomical cross-staff was used in surveying for measuring angles, two other devices referred to as a cross-staff were also employed.\n\n\nIn the past, many surveyor's instruments were used on a Jacob's staff. These include:\n\nSome devices, such as the modern optical targets for laser-based surveying, are still in common use on a Jacob's staff.\n\nIn geology, the Jacob's staff is mainly used to measure stratigraphic thicknesses in the field, especially when bedding is not visible or unclear (e.g., covered outcrop) and when due to the configuration of an outcrop, the apparent and real thicknesses of beds diverge therefore making the use of a tape measure difficult. There is a certain level of error to be expected when using this tool, due to the lack of an exact reference mean for measuring stratigraphic thickness. High-precision designs include a laser able to slide vertically along the staff and to rotate on a plane parallel to bedding.\n\n"}
{"id": "27823720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27823720", "title": "Joranda Falls", "text": "Joranda Falls\n\nThe Joranda Falls (ଯୋରନ୍ଦା ପ୍ରପାତ୍) is located in the core area of Simlipal National Park in Mayurbhanj district in the Indian state of Odisha. The Barehipani Falls is located close to the Joranda Falls. It is the 19th highest waterfall in India.\n\nThe Joranda Falls has a total height of . The water plunges over a lofty cliff in a single drop, spreading out slightly as it falls.\n\n"}
{"id": "3088398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3088398", "title": "Kabardia", "text": "Kabardia\n\nKabardia () was a historical region in the North Caucasus corresponding partly to the modern Kabardino-Balkaria. It had better political organization than its neighbors and a somewhat ‘feudal’ social structure. It existed as a political community from the fifteenth century or earlier until it came under Russian control in the early nineteenth century.\n\nThe Kabardians were the eastern branch of the Circassians, to use this word in its broadest sense. They occupied the central third of the North Caucasus piedmont. To the north were the Nogai steppe nomads. To the south, and deeper in the mountains, were, from west to east, the Karachays, Balkars, Ossets, Ingush and Chechens. They interacted with these peoples because the mountaineers usually drove their livestock to the lowlands for winter pasture. The first three of these seem to have been originally steppe-dwellers who sought refuge in the mountains during the Mongol wars, while the Ingush and Chechens have inhabited the Caucasus for as long as anyone knows. To the west were the Abazins, the Besleney, a branch of the Kabardians, and the Circassians proper. In the east the Kabardians were sometimes in contact with the Kumyks. The country's boundaries fluctuated, as did its political unity and degree of control over outlying areas. The core of Kabardia was Great Kabardia which extended from somewhat east of the north-flowing part of the Kuban River to somewhat east of the north-flowing part of the Terek River. To the east was Lesser Kabardia between the Terek and Sunzha Rivers in what is now Chechen country. According to the Russian historian V. I. Potto, in the eighteenth century the Kabardians were greatly admired and copied by their neighbors, such that the phrase “he dresses, or rides, like a Kabardian” was an expression of high praise. Yermolov said that the Kabardians were the best fighters in the Caucasus but in his day they were much weakened by plague.\n\nThe Kabardians and their western relatives, the Circassians, have inhabited the north flank of the Caucasus as far back as anyone knows. Kabardia is said to have been founded by the semi-legendary Prince Inal. Without a native tradition of written history, most of what we know of their history comes from their contacts with the Russians. This contact dates from 1475 then the Turks captured the Genoese ports on the Black sea and the part-Circassian Zakkaria Gizolfi appealed unsuccessfully to Moscow. When the Golden Horde broke up about 1500 the steppe nomads became organized as the Nogai Horde. They and the Crimeans began or continued to raid the north Caucasus. Richmond reports raids for the years : ‘no later than 1476’, 1491, 1498, circa 1500 ‘every spring’, 1521, 1518, a 10-year break after 1519, 1539, 1547, 1554, 1567, 1578, 1606-1635 “seven times’, 1670s, 1708, 1720, 1735, 1740s, 1760–61 and 1777.\n\nA brief alliance around 1560: Since the Crimeans were also raiding Russia (see Crimean–Nogai raids into East Slavic lands) the two peoples were natural allies. There had been an isolated group of Cossacks on the lower Terek from perhaps 1520. In 1552 a Kabardian embassy reached Moscow. In 1556 Kabardians and Cossacks took the Turkish Fort Temryuk on the Taman peninsula. When Astrakhan was captured in 1556 Russia had a base 250 miles northeast of Kabardia. A few Kabardians entered Russian service. Temryuk came to power some time before 1558 and in 1561 his daughter married Ivan the Terrible. In 1567 Russia founded Sunzha Ostrog at the junction of the Terek and Sunzha in Lesser Kabardia. In 1569, after the Turks failed to take Astrakhan, their retreating troops were killed by the Kabardians. In 1570 Temryuk was killed fighting the Crimeans. In 1588 there was another treaty of alliance. With the death of Temryuk and losses in the Livonian War Russia disengaged from the Caucasus for about 200 years. Sunzha Ostrog was abandoned in 1571, rebuilt in 1578 and abandoned a year later.\n\n1600-1753: In 1645 a regiment was moved to Tersk (it has been re-established early in the century). Kabardia split into two factions, the pro-Russian Baksan and pro-Crimean Kashkatau (originally the alliances were opposite, but they switched sides some time after 1722.). One side brought in Russians from Astrakhan. The Nekrasov Cossacks settled on the Kuban about 1711. More Cossacks settled on the Terek and Kizlyar was founded in 1736. In 1739 Kabardia was declared a buffer state between the Russian and Ottoman empires. In 1744 Koltsov and 400 Cossacks arrived to support the Baksan faction. Another force was sent in 1753.\n\nConquest: \"Kabardia came under Russian control between about 1769 and 1830. They moved west from the Terek country, southwest from Astrakhan and to a lesser degree southeast from Azov. From 1769 Russia intervened in Georgia south of the mountains. This required them to hold the Georgian Military Highway which passed through Kabardia. Georgia was annexed in 1800.\"\nMozdok was established in 1763 and in 1769 Russia attacked Kabardia for the first time. The 1774 Treaty of Küçük Kaynarca declared Kabardia a vassal of the Crimean Khanate. In 1777 the Mozdok line was begun which was to run from Mozdok northwest to Azov. From 1779 a line of forts was run west along the Malka River cutting off Kabardian pastures. In 1779 von Shtrandman was sent to the north Caucasus and fought 1500 Kabardians at a place called Fort Pavolosk. There was a major battle on the Malka River and later 3000 Kabardians were defeated in the Baksan country. This led to a treaty but there was more fighting in 1780. By 1783 the Georgian Military Highway had been improved sufficiently to be used by wheeled traffic. In 1785-91 Sheikh Mansur attempted to lead an anti-Russian holy war in the north Caucasus. During the Russo-Turkish War (1787–92) Russian forces thrice crossed Circassian territory attempting to take the Black Sea fort of Anapa. Late in this war Batal Pasha invaded the north Caucasus and was defeated. In 1791 Ustlabinsk was established in Circassia at the junction of the Kuban and Laba Rivers. By 1793 25000 Cossacks were settled along the Mozdok line.\n\nIn the early nineteenth century a plague struck the north Caucasus which lasted until the 1830s. It is estimated that Kabardia lost 90% of its population, falling from 200,000 in 1790 to 30,000 in 1830. In 1804 there was a general uprising all over the north Caucasus. The Russians won at least three battles mainly because of their artillery. One involved 13000 men on both sides and another involved 7000 Kabardians. Around 1810 Russia destroyed 200 villages. In 1822 new forts were built on the North Caucasus Line. In the 1820s Yermolov led a campaign which is said to have completely depopulated Lesser Kabardia. After about 1830 the Kabardians had been subdued by plague and war and the Russians turned their attention to the Murid War in the east and the Russo-Circassian War in the west. For more on the conquest see North Caucasus line.\n\nWalter Richmond, The Northwest Caucasus, 2008\n"}
{"id": "18584787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18584787", "title": "Land information system", "text": "Land information system\n\nA land Information System (LIS) is a geographic information system for cadastral and land-use mapping, typically used by local governments.\n\nA LIS consists of an accurate, current and reliable land record cadastre and its associated attribute and spatial data that represent the legal boundaries of land tenure and provides a vital base layer capable of integration into other geographic systems or as a standalone solution that allows data stewards to retrieve, create, update, store, view, analyze and publish land information.\n\n"}
{"id": "21259987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21259987", "title": "Landmarks in Buenos Aires", "text": "Landmarks in Buenos Aires\n\nThere are many landmarks in Buenos Aires, Argentina some of which are of considerable historical or artistic interest.\n\nThe \"Monumento a La Carta Magna y las Cuatro Regiones Argentinas\" is situated in the Sarmiento y Libertador avenues part of the Palermo district. It was raised by the Spanish community in 1910 for the Centennial of the Revolution of May, and it is commonly referred to as the \"Spanish Monument\" (\"Monumento De los Españoles\"). The colossal work is 24.5 meters high, created in marble from Carrara and brass by the Spanish sculptor Agustí Querol Subirats.\n\nIn March 1916, the ocean liner \"Príncipe de Asturias\" from Barcelona was wrecked 90 miles from Rio de Janeiro. In this accident, more than 450 people died and the load of marble ornaments and brass that composed the statuary of the monument was lost in the depths of the ocean. The following year, replicas were requested for those lost in the shipwreck. Finally, May 25, 1927 the count of Amalfi, on behalf of the king Alfonso XIII, made a symbolic delivery of the work to the president Marcelo Torcuato de Alvear.\n\nThis monument of the general Manuel Belgrano, one of the greatest heroes of Argentine History, is in the Plaza de Mayo. It is a bronze equestrian statue on a large granite pedestal, showing Belgrano holding aloft the flag of Argentina. It was inaugurated in 1873, created by the French sculptor Albert-Ernest Carrier-Belleuse and Argentine Manuel de Santa Coloma. The monument was erected by public funding in gratitude to the general.\n\nManuel Belgrano (1770 – 1820) was an economist, lawyer, politician, and military leader, born in Buenos Aires. He founded the \"Escuela de Naútica\" (School of Navigation) in 1799. After the Spanish rule was overthrown in 1810, Belgrano was appointed general by the first autonomous government of Argentina. Belgrano led an ill-fated military campaign to Paraguay, and also led the Jujuy Exodus, which prepared the ground for victories of the Argentine War of Independence in the northwest of the country in the Battle of Tucumán (1812) and Battle of Salta (1813). Belgrano was one of the leaders of the Argentine Declaration of Independence, promulgated on July 9, 1816.\n\nThe \"Monumento de los dos Congresos\" in the Plaza des los Dos Congresos in the Monserrat district, was created in stone from Nancy. The monument was designed by the Belgian architect Eugène D'Huicque (1877–1955) and the bronze statues are the work of the Belgian artist Jules Lagae(1862–1931). It was created in Brussels, finished in 1909, and inaugurated in Buenos Aires on July 9, 1914\n\nThe monument celebrates the centenary of the 1816 declaration of independence. The central figure represents the Republic on the march, with snake faces and an allegory of abundance at its feet. The two lateral figures represent the assembly of 1813 and the congress of 1816. There are also other representations of national fauna, notably of horses and condors.\n\nThis mast is in the center of the Plaza Colombia, in the Barracas district. The mast and brass sculptural group: \"Hoisting the Flag\" was created by the sculptor Julio C. Vergottini. The brass piece was cast in Colombia and donated by the Government of Bogotá to Buenos Aires in 1940.\n\nThe monument of Christopher Columbus (ca. 1451-1506) was located between La Casa Rosada (government house) and La Avenida La Rabida. The monument was a gift celebrating the 1910 Centennial of Argentinean independence from Spain, from the Buenos Aires Italian community, led by Italian immigrant Antonio Devoto.\n\nA work of the Italian sculptor Arnaldo Zocchi, the foundation stone of the monument was placed on May 24, 1910, but the monument was not inaugurated until June 15, 1921.The monument is 26 meters tall and weighs 623 tons. The column in the center was made of a single 6.25m tall block of Carrara marble that weighed 38 tons. The monument was created in Italy, divided into nineteen sections, and shipped to Buenos Aires, where it arrived on April 14, 1921. It suffered some damage during a bombardment in 1955. In June 2013 the monument was taken down to be replaced by a monument to indigenous guerrilla fighter Juana Azurduy de Padilla.\n\nThis monument in the Plaza Loria is to the late-19th-century historian, journalist and publicist José Manuel Estrada (1842–1894), a leading Catholic intellectual and politician in Buenos Aires in the second half of the 19th century.\n\nThe sculpture of Estrada was ordered in 1937 by the municipality of Buenos Aires and inaugurated on 11 November 1947. It was created by the sculptor Héctor Rocha (1893-?), who also created a statue of General Manuel Belgrano in the plaza Manuel Belgrano, inaugurated in 1961, and the \"Monumento a Guillermo Rawson\" described below.\n\nThe Monument to Giuseppe Garibaldi is an equestrian sculpture featuring Giuseppe Garibaldi, located on Plaza Italia, in the Palermo neighbourhood of Buenos Aires, Argentina.\n\nGiuseppe Garibaldi (1807–1882) was an Italian military and political figure. In his twenties, he joined the Carbonari Italian patriot revolutionaries, and had to flee Italy after a failed insurrection. He then contributed to the independence of Uruguay, leading the Italian Legion in the Uruguayan Civil War, and afterwards returned to Italy as a commander in the conflicts of the Risorgimento. He has been dubbed the \"Hero of the Two Worlds\" in tribute to his military expeditions in both South America and Europe.\n\nDonated to the city by Italian residents, the monument was built by Italian sculptor Eugenio Maccagnani as a replica of the one located in Brescia, Italy, and was inaugurated on June 19, 1904.\n\nThe monument is the work of the sculptor Pedro Costa, located in a circle on Tucumán street. It is made of marble and sandstone. It has a strong base and a column that supports the statue. It was carried out by the initiative of a Commission presided over by Bartolomé Mitre during the intendency of Torcuato of Alvear.\n\nJuan Lavalle was in the army that besieged Montevideo in 1813. He continued to participate in the struggles between the successor states of the Spanish provinces, fighting with great bravery and steadily rising in rank. In the Battle of Ituzaingó in February 1827, he beat the forces of General Abreu and was himself proclaimed General on the field of battle. Lavalle organised the Unitarian revolution of December 1828, after which he was chosen governor of Buenos Aires Province. One of his unfortunate decisions was to execute former governor Manuel Dorrego, which ignited a civil war. After the \"Convention of Barracas\" agreement with Juan Manuel de Rosas, he retired to the Banda Oriental (nowadays Uruguay) In 1839, with support from exiled objectors to Rosas' government, he arrived in Entre Ríos Province and advanced towards Buenos Aires in order to overthrow Rosas. However, he was unsuccessful and was accidentally shot dead in 1841.\n\nBy a \"strange coincidence\" the Monumento al General Lavalle was erected in front of the residence of Felicia Dorrego, the former governor's daughter.\n\nThe monument to Mariano Moreno is in Plaza Mariano Moreno. It opened on 1 October 1910. The statue was created by Miguel Blay y Fábregas (1866–1936).\n\nMariano Moreno (1778–1811) was a lawyer, journalist and politician who played a decisive role in the May Revolution that led to the declaration of independence of Argentina from Spain. Moreno was a secretary in the First Junta that replaced the viceroy of Spain. He suppressed the uprising of Santiago de Liniers in Córdoba (whom he had executed later), and organized the liberating expedition to Alto Perú. He was then removed from office by Cornelio Saavedra.\n\nMoreno created the first Argentine newspaper, \"La Gazeta de Buenos Aires\". He summarized his thoughts on economics in his 1809 book \"Representación de los hacendados y labradores\", which, following the physiocratic doctrine, proposed the stimulation of agriculture to develop an economy that was very dependent on international trade and its undesirable consequence, contraband.\n\nThe Pirámide de Mayo (\"May Pyramid\"), located in the center of the Plaza de Mayo, is the oldest national monument in Buenos Aires. Its construction was ordered in 1811 by the Primera Junta to celebrate the first anniversary of the May Revolution. It was renovated in 1856, under the direction of Prilidiano Pueyrredón. In 1912, after having undergone numerous modifications, it was moved 63 meters to the east, with the idea that a much larger monument would eventually be constructed around it.\n\nThe monument is crowned by an allegory of Liberty, the work of the French sculptor Joseph Dubourdieu. From the ground to the peak of the statue's Phrygian cap, the Pyramid measures 18.76 meters.\n\nThe Monumento a Bartolomé Mitre in the Plaza Mitre was created by the Italian sculptors Luis Calandra, David and Eduardo Rubino. It is an imposing work carried out in white Carrara marble that dominates the square from the high part of the ravine.\n\nBartolomé Mitre Martinez (1821 – 1906) was a statesman, military figure, and author. He was the President of Argentina from 1862 to 1868. As a liberal, he was an opponent of Juan Manuel de Rosas, and was forced into exile where he worked as a soldier and journalist in Uruguay, Bolivia, Peru, and Chile. Mitre returned to Argentina after the defeat of Rosas. He led the revolt of Buenos Aires against Justo José de Urquiza's federal system, and was appointed to important posts in the provincial government after Buenos Aires seceded from the Confederation. Mitre was also the founder of La Nación, one of South America's leading newspapers. He wrote poetry and fiction. He translated Dante's \"La divina commedia\" (\"The Divine Comedy\") into Spanish.\n\nThe Puente de la Mujer, in the Puerto Madero district, is a pedestrian bridge opened in 2001. It was designed by Valencian architect and engineer Santiago Calatrava. The bridge is 160 meters long and 6 meters wide, with a metallic mast that rises 39 meters. The bridge swings aside when a ship needs to pass through. The bridge was built in Spain and moved in parts to Buenos Aires in many shipments. Artistically, the author states that the work represent the figure of a couple dancing tango, where the white mast represents the man, and the curved silhouette of the bridge represents the woman.\n\nThe Monumento Las Nereidas, or \"Font of the Nereids\", is now located at \"Costanera Sur\". It was created by Lola Mora (1866 – 1936), in 1903. The sensuous and erotic sculpture met bureaucratic problems at the city's Deliberative Council, which had it moved from place to place.\n\nLola Mora was a rebel and a pioneer of women in her artistic field. At 20 years of age she began painting portraits, but soon turned to sculpting marble and granite. She studied art in her home province and then, with a scholarship, in Rome, Italy, where she created her greatest works, some of them by request of the Argentine government. In 1900 she was charged with creating two bas-reliefs for the Historical House of Tucumán (seat of Argentina's Declaration of Independence of 1816).\n\nThe Obelisk () is one of the city's most famous landmarks and a venue for various cultural activities and other events. It is placed at the heart of Buenos Aires. \"Porteños\" refer to it simply as \"El Obelisco\".\n\nThe obelisk was built in May 1936 to commemorate the 400th anniversary of the first founding of the city. It is located in the center of the \"Plaza de la República\" (Republic Square), the spot where the Argentine flag was flown for the first time in Buenos Aires, at the intersection of Nueve de Julio and Corrientes avenues. Its total height is and its base area is . It was designed by architect Alberto Prebisch, and its construction took barely four weeks.\n\nThe obelisk is one of the main icons of the city, and a venue for various cultural activities (usually sponsored by the city government) and other events. It is the traditional gathering spot for sports fans to celebrate when their favourite team wins, especially from the national football team, often resulting in colorful events that attract media coverage. It was also used by several acrobatic troupes to perform high-wire acts.\n\nThe Monumento a Guillermo Rawson is another bronze statue created by Héctor Rocha. The marble base has the figures of Reason and Science. On the right side a virile figure in Roman attire symbolizes Eloquence and a seated figure on the left side represents Knowledge. Inscribed on the front of the shaft is \"Laus - Virtus - 1821-1890\".\n\nGuillermo Rawson (1821–1890) was a doctor and one of the most influential politicians in nineteenth century Argentina. In 1853 he was jailed for opposing Nazario Benavidez, the de facto governor of San Juan. The following year he was a member of the Paraná Congress, and from 1862 he was Interior Minister in the government of Bartolomé Mitre.\n\nAs Interior Minister in 1862 he met Captain Love Jones-Parry and Lewis Jones who were on their way to Patagonia to investigate whether it was suitable for the creation of a Welsh settlement there. Rawson came to an agreement that resulted in the creation of a colony in the Chubut Valley in the following years. The city of Rawson, the capital of the province of Chubut was named after him.\n\nThe \"Monumento a Julio Argentino Roca\" was inaugurated on October 19, 1941 in the plazoleta Ricardo Tanturi at the intersection of Av. Julio A. Roca and Peru street. It has a base of marble with two imposing figures, Fatherland and Work, and a granite pedestal crowned by an equestrian sculpture in brass made by the Uruguayan sculptor José Zorrilla of San Martin. Recently the monument has been defaced with graffiti, despite being fenced.\n\nJulio Argentino Roca (1843–1914) was an army general who served as President of Argentina from 1880 to 1886 and again from 1898 to 1904. While in the army, he applied ruthless measures to subdue or destroy the Indian communities of the Pampas, and it was these successes that led to his first election as president shortly after suppressing an attempted revolution by Carlos Tejedor.\n\nThe \"Monument to Juan Manuel de Rosas\" was inaugurated on November 8, 1999. Is located in Intendente Seeber square, Palermo neighbourhood. The monument was created by Ricardo Dallia Lasta.\n\nHas a major monument to Juan Manuel de Rosas, surrounded by a high fence.\n\nJuan Manuel de Rosas (1793–1877), ruled Argentina from 1829 to 1852. Rosas was one of the first famous caudillos in Ibero-America and through his rule united Argentina, provided an efficient government and strengthened the economy.\n\nThis monument to General José de San Martín is in the Plaza San Martín. It was created by Louis-Joseph Daumas in 1862.\n\nSan Martín (1778–1850), was the prime leader of the southern part of South America's successful struggle for independence from Spain. He is the national hero of Argentina.\n\nThe Cabildo building was used as the government house during the colonial times of the Viceroyalty of the River Plate. The original building was finished in 1610 but was soon found to be too small and had to be expanded. Over the years many changes have been made. In 1940, the architect Mario Buschiazzo reconstructed the colonial features of the Cabildo using various original documents.\n\nCurrently, the Cabildo hosts the National Museum of the Cabildo and the May Revolution (Museo Nacional del Cabildo y la Revolución de Mayo), in which paintings, artifacts, clothes and jewellery of the 18th century are on display. The patio of the Cabildo still has its 1835 ornamental water well.\n\nThe Casa Rosada (\"Pink House\") is the official seat of the executive branch of the Argentine government.\n\nThe Casa Rosada sits at the eastern end of the Plaza de Mayo, a large square which since the 1580 foundation of Buenos Aires has been surrounded by many of the most important political institutions of the city and of Argentina. The site, originally at the waterline of the Río de la Plata, was first occupied by the \"Fort of Juan Baltazar of Austria,\" a structure built on the orders of the founder of Buenos Aires, Captain Juan de Garay, in 1594. Its 1713 replacement by a masonry structure (the \"Castle of San Miguel\") complete with turrets made the spot the effective nerve center of colonial government.\n\nFollowing independence, President Bernardino Rivadavia had a Neoclassical portico built at the entrance in 1825, and the building remained unchanged until, in 1857, President Justo José de Urquiza ordered the fort demolished in favor of a new customs building, built under the direction of British Argentine architect Edward Taylor. The Italianate structure was Buenos Aires' largest building from 1859 until the 1890s.\n\nThe Metropolitan Cathedral () is the main Catholic church in Buenos Aires. It is located in the city centre, overlooking Plaza de Mayo, on the corner of San Martín and Rivadavia streets, in the San Nicolás neighbourhood. It is the mother church of the Archdiocese of Buenos Aires.\n\nThe Cathedral of Buenos Aires was rebuilt several times since its humble origins in the 16th century. The present building is a mix of architectural styles, with an 18th-century nave and dome and a severe, 19th century Neoclassical façade without towers. The interior keeps precious 18th century statues and altarpieces, as well as abundant Neo-Renaissance and Neo-Baroque decoration.\n\nThis museum of art is on Suipacha, in the Retiro neighborhood, in a large house built in the 1920s by architect Martín Noel in a neo-colonial style. The Buenos Aires town council bought the house in 1936, along with the art collection, which became the basis of the \"Museo de Arte Colonial\" that opened there a year later. In 1943, Isaac Fernández Blanco donated his collection to the museum, and in 1947 the museum was given its current name.\n\nThe legacy of the Fernández Blanco is considered one of the most important in Spanish American art, including silverware from Peru, and from de Río de la Plata; Peruvian and Cuzco paintings; Jesuit and Quito images, Brazilian furniture and decorative arts.\n\nThe National Congress () building is the seat of the legislative branch of the government of Argentina. It is situated at the end of Avenida de Mayo, at the other end of which is located the Casa Rosada. Designed by the Italian architect Vittorio Meano, the building was under construction between 1898 and 1906 when it was precariously opened, to be later finished by Julio Dormal. As time went by, the building proved too small for its purpose, and in 1974 the construction of the \"Edificio Anexo\", which now holds the deputies' offices, was started.\n\nIn front of the building lies the Square of Congress () which is popular with tourists, as well as a preferred location for protestors and those who want to voice their opinion about Congress activities.\n\nThe National Library () is the largest library in Argentina and one of the most important in the Americas. It is located in the barrio of Recoleta and viewed as an example of brutalist architecture.\n\nOriginally named the Public Library of Buenos Aires and founded in September 1810 by decree of the first Government Junta of the May Revolution first Government Junta, it later became the country's only national library when it redefined its mission in 1884 and formally changed its name to the National Library of Argentina. The first headquarters, an old 18th century mansion that belonged to the Jesuits, was located on the corner of Moreno Street and Peru Street at the Manzana de Las Luces.\n\nSan Martín Palace () is located in Plaza San Martín in the heart of Buenos Aires]. Formerly Anchorena Palace, the building was acquired by the Argentine government in 1936 and became the Headquarters for the Ministry of Foreign Relations. At present it serves as the Ceremonial Headquarters for the Ministry.\n\nThe palace contains many works of art by Argentine and American artists from the 20th century, such as Antonio Berni, Pablo Curatela Manes, Lino Enea Spilimbergo, and Roberto Matta.\n\nThe Club de Pescadores (\"Fisherman's Club\") is situated on the banks of the Río de la Plata in Costanera Norte Avenue.\n\nIn 1926 a plan was initiated to construct a pier with a building on it to house the social activities of the club. This received presidential consent in 1928 and construction of the pier was completed in 1930. The building on the pier, still in existence today, was designed by José N. Quartino and officially opened on 16 January 1937 in the presence the Argentina president General Agustín P. Justo.\n\nDeclared a national historic monument in 2001, the building has become an icon of the city of Buenos Aires.\n\nThe Confitería El Molino is an Art Nouveau style coffeehouse located on the corner of Callao Av. and Rivadavia Av., in front of the Argentine National Congress.\n\nIn 1915 Cayetano Brenna, a famous confectioner, commissioned the Italian architect Francisco Gianotti, to design the building that would house the café on its ground floor. When finished in 1917 the building, which was on the site of an existing café, was one of the highest buildings in the city with a corner turret which was illuminated from the inside with electric light, stained glass windows and windmill sails. El Molino and Galería Güemes were two of Gianotti's greatest works and represent important examples of Art Nouveau style architecture in Buenos Aires. Over the years El Molino became a favourite meeting place for the rich and famous. The café closed on February 23, 1997 and today is only rarely opened to the public for events designed to advertise the urgent need to restore the building before its final disintegration.\n\nIn 1997 El Molino was declared a National Historic Monument.\n\nThe Galerías Pacífico is a shopping mall located on Florida Street, at the junction with Córdoba Avenue. The Beaux Arts building was designed by the architects Emilio Agrelo and Roland Le Vacher in 1889 to accommodate a shop called the \"Argentine Bon Marché\", modelled on the Le Bon Marché in Paris.\n\nIn 1945 the building was remodelled by architects José Aslan and Héctor Ezcurra, and the offices were separated from the rest of the building. A large central cupola was constructed and decorated with 12 frescos by artists Lino Enea Spilimbergo, Antonio Berni, Juan Carlos Castagnino, Manuel Colmeiro and Demetrio Urruchúa. These frescos, executed in 1946, are some of the most important in Buenos Aires.\n\nAfter having been abandoned for years, the building was renovated by Juan Carlos López and Associates and re-opened in 1990 as the shopping arcade \"Galerías Pacífico\". Four more frescos by Romulo Maccio, Josefina Robirosa, Guillermo Roux and Carlos Alonso were added to the cupola. In addition to the shopping arcade the building also contains the Jorge Luis Borges Cultural Centre and the \"Julio Bocca Dance Studio\".\n\nThe Kavanagh Building () is located at 1065 Florida St. in the barrio of Retiro, overlooking Plaza San Martín. It was constructed in the 1930s in the Rationalist style, by the architects Gregorio Sánchez, Ernesto Lagos and Luis María de la Torre and was finished in 1936. The building is characterised by the austerity of its lines, the lack of external ornamentation and its large prismatic volumes. It was declared a national historical monument in 1999, and is one of the most impressive architectural masterpieces of Buenos Aires. Standing at a height of 120 m, it still retains its impact against the modern skyline of the city. In 1939 its façade received an award from the American Institute of Architects.\n\nPalacio Barolo is a 22-story office building located at 1370 Avenida de Mayo. The Italian architect Mario Palanti was commissioned to design the building by the empresario Luis Barolo, an Italian immigrant who had arrived in Argentina in 1890 and had made a fortune in knitted fabrics. The basic design, in Eclectic style, was conceived simultaneously with one for the Palacio Salvo in Montevideo, Uruguay. The Palacio Barolo was designed in accordance with the cosmology of Dante's Divine Comedy, motivated by the architect's admiration for Alighieri.\n\nWhen completed in 1923 it was the tallest building, not only in the city, but also in the whole of South America. It remained the city's tallest building until 1935 when, on completion, the Kavanagh Building took over this title. The lighthouse at the top of the building can be seen all the way in Montevideo, Uruguay.\n\nThe Teatro Colón (Columbus Theatre) opened in 1908 and is one of the World's major opera houses.\n\nThe present theatre, the second with that name, opened in 1908 after twenty years under construction. The auditorium is horseshoe-shaped, has 2,487 seats (slightly more than, say, the Royal Opera House in Covent Garden, London, England), standing room for 1,000 and a stage which is 20 m wide, 15 m high and 20 m deep. The acoustics are considered one of the best five acoustics in opera in the world.\n\nThe theatre is bounded by the extremely wide 9 de Julio Avenue (technically Cerrito Street), Libertad Street (the main entrance), Arturo Toscanini Street, and Tucumán Street. It is in the heart of the city on a site once occupied by Ferrocarril Oeste's \"Plaza Parque\" station.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5867691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5867691", "title": "List of Sinhala words of Dutch origin", "text": "List of Sinhala words of Dutch origin\n\nThis is a list of Sinhala words of Dutch origin.\n\n\"Note: For information on the transcription used, see National Library at Calcutta romanization. An exception from the standard is the romanization of Sinhala long \"ä\" () as \"ää\".\"\n\nSinhala words of Dutch origin came about during the period of Dutch colonial rule in Sri Lanka between 1658 and 1798. This period saw absorption of several Dutch words into the local language brought about by the interaction between Dutch colonials and the Sinhalese people, mainly in the coastal areas of the island. The Dutch replaced the Portuguese as the catalyst of change with regards to the social and cultural life of the people. A wide variety of words were adopted from administrative terms to military terms, which reveals several points of contact between the two groups.\n\nThe words pertaining to the fields of daily life, administration, food and military are the most numerous; this is to be expected because of many new innovations and goods that reached Sri Lanka via the Dutch.\n\nDutch loanwords in Sinhala rarely appear in the same form as the original word. Usually, a word has undergone some kind of modification to fit into the Sinhala phonological or morphological system (e.g. \"balk\" becomes \"bālkaya\" because Sinhala inanimate nouns (see grammatical gender) need to end with /a/, , in order to be declineable).\n\nThese are the main ways Dutch words are incorporated into the Sinhala lexicon with different endings:\n\n"}
{"id": "8802913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8802913", "title": "List of airports in Wallis and Futuna", "text": "List of airports in Wallis and Futuna\n\nThis is a list of airports in Wallis and Futuna.\n\nWallis and Futuna () is an overseas collectivity (\"collectivité d'outre-mer\" or \"COM\") of France located in the South Pacific between Fiji and Samoa.\n\nThe territory is made up of three main volcanic tropical islands along with a number of tiny islets, and is split into two island groups that lie about apart, namely Wallis Islands (or Uvea Islands) in the northeast and Hoorn Islands (or Futuna Islands) in the southwest, including Futuna Island proper and the mostly uninhabited Alofi Island. The capital of Wallis and Futuna is Mata-Utu, which is located on Wallis Island.\n\nICAO location identifiers are linked to each airport's Aeronautical Information Publication (AIP), which are available online in Portable Document Format (PDF) from the French \"Service d'information aéronautique\" (SIA). Locations shown in bold are as per the airport's AIP page. Most airports give two locations: the first is the city served, second is the city where the airport is located.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5354165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5354165", "title": "List of extreme points of Denmark", "text": "List of extreme points of Denmark\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Denmark: the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location. \n\nThis includes only land on the Jutland peninsula – land that is part of mainland Europe:\n\nFollowing a flood in 1825, the northernmost part of Jutland is actually an island.\n\nThis includes only land in the European Union, also called Denmark proper, excluding Greenland and the Faroe Islands which are considered separate countries:\n\n\nDanish territory includes the island of Kaffeklubben, the northernmost permanent piece of land on earth. There are several temporary gravel banks marginally further north, such as Oodaaq, but these are not included here.\n\n\nGedser is also the southernmost point of Scandinavia and the Nordic countries.\n\n\nOnly public transportation.\nFollow the coordinate links and see on maps that these are extreme points and have no location further beyond.\n\n"}
{"id": "27276709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27276709", "title": "List of golf courses designed by Jack Nicklaus", "text": "List of golf courses designed by Jack Nicklaus\n\nFollowing is a list of golf courses designed by Jack Nicklaus and his company Nicklaus Design, one of the largest golf design practices in the world.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, Pete Dye initially requested Nicklaus' advice for the design of The Golf Club in suburban Columbus, Ohio. His first design Harbour Town Golf Links, co-credited with Dye, was opened for play in 1969. A subsequent early, yet more prominent design was Muirfield Village Golf Club in Dublin, Ohio which opened in 1974 and has hosted the Memorial Tournament since its inception in 1976. This course has also hosted the 1987 Ryder Cup and the 1998 Solheim Cup matches. For the first few years, all of his projects were co-designs with either Pete Dye or Desmond Muirhead.\n\nNicklaus is in partnership with his four sons and his son-in-law through their company, \"Nicklaus Design\". The company had 299 courses open for play at the end of 2005, nearly 1% of all the courses in the world. While the majority of Nicklaus-designed courses stand in the United States, a significant presence also occupies Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe, and Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "52052738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52052738", "title": "List of lighthouses in the Solomon Islands", "text": "List of lighthouses in the Solomon Islands\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in Solomon Islands. \n\n"}
{"id": "11356074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11356074", "title": "List of mammals of the Wallis and Futuna Islands", "text": "List of mammals of the Wallis and Futuna Islands\n\nThis is a list of the mammal species recorded in the Wallis and Futuna Islands. There are 5 mammal species in the Wallis and Futuna Islands, all of which are marine mammals of the order Cetacea.\n\nThe following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the IUCN:\nSome species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of Near Threatened and Least Concern categories:\n\nThe order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "174519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174519", "title": "List of tourist attractions in Ireland", "text": "List of tourist attractions in Ireland\n\nThe following list includes some of the tourist attractions on the island of Ireland.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57242304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57242304", "title": "M Jackson", "text": "M Jackson\n\nM Jackson is an American climate scientist and National Geographic Society expert. She is the author of the popular science book \"While Glaciers Slept\" and is a 2018 TED Fellow.\n\nJackson completed her undergraduate studies at the University of Montana, which she graduated in 2011. She attended the University of Oregon, where she earned a doctorate in geography and glaciology. She worked in The Glacier Lab under the supervision of Mark Carey. Together they proposed a feminist glaciology framework for global environmental change. They proposed the study to provoke discussion about the people who are researching glaciers, and whose voices are left out. She completed her thesis, \"Tangled Up in Blue: Narratives of Glacier Change in Southeast Iceland\", in 2017.\n\nJackson has received a Fulbright fellowship three times, working in Turkey and Iceland. On her second Fulbright-funded project she worked in Höfn, looking at how climate change affected fishing communities. During her PhD she became a National Geographic Student Explorer. She has served in the Peace Corps in Zambia.\n\nIn 2017 she gave a TED talk \"Glaciers, Gender and Science\". She an Arctic expert and Emerging Explorer for the National Geographic Society. She has led expeditions in Alaska and Icleand. She regularly visits Svinafellsjokull glacier.\n\nShe is currently working Tangible Ice, a multi-year Artic project that studies the impact of socio-physical dimensions of glacier retreat. The project partners with the National Geographic Explorers, filmmakers and scientists. In 2018 Jackson was announced as a TED Fellow.\n\nJackson's first book, \"While Glaciers Slept\", was published by Green Writer's Press in June 2015. It explores the parallels between the destruction of the planet as a result of climate change and a family facing the loss of parents. The book combines personal science with exploration, and was well received by critics. The foreword is by Bill McKibben. She has given several talks about her book and exploration work.\n\nIn 2018 she will publish her second book, The Secret Lives of Glaciers, the stories of people in Iceland impacted by anthropogenic climate change.\n"}
{"id": "40364810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40364810", "title": "Mesoregion (geography)", "text": "Mesoregion (geography)\n\nA mesoregion is a medium-sized region between the size of a city or district and that of a nation. Examples of conceptual meso-regions in Southeast Europe include Istria, Kosovo, Epirus, etc. An example of the official usage of the term is Mesoregion (Brazil), a grouping of municipalities for statistical purposes.\n"}
{"id": "206829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206829", "title": "Mogao Caves", "text": "Mogao Caves\n\nThe Mogao Caves, also known as the Thousand Buddha Grottoes or Caves of the Thousand Buddhas, form a system of 492 temples southeast of the center of Dunhuang, an oasis strategically located at a religious and cultural crossroads on the Silk Road, in Gansu province, China. The caves may also be known as the Dunhuang Caves, however, this term is also used as a collective term to include other Buddhist cave sites in and around the Dunhuang area, such as the Western Thousand Buddha Caves, Eastern Thousand Buddha Caves, Yulin Caves, and Five Temple Caves. The caves contain some of the finest examples of Buddhist art spanning a period of 1,000 years. The first caves were dug out in 366 AD as places of Buddhist meditation and worship. The Mogao Caves are the best known of the Chinese Buddhist grottoes and, along with Longmen Grottoes and Yungang Grottoes, are one of the three famous ancient Buddhist sculptural sites of China.\n\nAn important cache of documents was discovered in 1900 in the so-called \"Library Cave\", which had been walled-up in the 11th century. The contents of the library were subsequently dispersed around the world, and the largest collections are now found in Beijing, London, Paris and Berlin, and the International Dunhuang Project exists to coordinate and collect scholarly work on the Dunhuang manuscripts and other material. The caves themselves are now a popular tourist destination, with a number open for visiting.\n\nThe caves are commonly referred to in Chinese as the Thousand Buddha Caves (), a name that some scholars have speculated to have come from the legend of its founding, when a monk Yuezun had a vision of a thousand Buddhas at the site. This name however may have come from the large number of Buddha figures at the site, or the miniatures figures painted on the walls of these caves as these figures are called \"thousand Buddhas\" colloquially. The name Mogao Caves () was used in the Tang dynasty, where 'Mogao' refers to an administrative district at the site during the Tang dynasty. Mogao may mean \"peerless\" (literally \"none higher\", where \"mo\" means \"none\", and \"gao\" means \"high\"); an alternative reading may be \"high in the desert\" if \"mo\" is read as a variant of the Chinese term for \"desert\". Mogao is also used as the name of a modern town that is administered by Dunhuang city: Mogao Town (). The Mogao Caves are also often referred to as the Dunhuang Caves after the nearest city Dunhuang, which means \"blazing beacon\" as beacons were used at the frontier outpost to warn of attacks by nomadic tribes. The term Dunhuang Caves however is also used in a broader sense as a collective term for all the caves found in or around the Dunhuang area.\n\nDunhuang was established as a frontier garrison outpost by the Han Dynasty Emperor Wudi to protect against the Xiongnu in 111 BC. It also became an important gateway to the West, a centre of commerce along the Silk Road, as well as a meeting place of various people and religions such as Buddhism.\n\nThe construction of the Mogao Caves near Dunhuang is generally taken to have begun sometime in the fourth century AD. According to a book written during the reign of Tang Empress Wu, \"Fokan Ji\" (, \"An Account of Buddhist Shrines\") by Li Junxiu (), a Buddhist monk named Lè Zūn (, which may also be pronounced Yuezun) had a vision of a thousand Buddhas bathed in golden light at the site in 366 AD, inspiring him to build a cave here. The story is also found in other sources, such as in inscriptions on a stele in cave 332; an earlier date of 353 however was given in another document, \"Shazhou Tujing\" (, \"Geography of Shazhou\"). He was later joined by a second monk Faliang (), and the site gradually grew, by the time of the Northern Liang a small community of monks had formed at the site. The caves initially served only as a place of meditation for hermit monks, but developed to serve the monasteries that sprang up nearby. Members of the ruling family of Northern Wei and Northern Zhou constructed many caves here, and it flourished in the short-lived Sui Dynasty. By the Tang Dynasty, the number of caves had reached over a thousand.\n\nBy the Sui and Tang dynasties, Mogao Caves had become a place of worship and pilgrimage for the public. From the 4th until the 14th century, caves were constructed by monks to serve as shrines with funds from donors. These caves were elaborately painted, the cave paintings and architecture serving as aids to meditation, as visual representations of the quest for enlightenment, as mnemonic devices, and as teaching tools to inform those illiterate about Buddhist beliefs and stories. The major caves were sponsored by patrons such as important clergy, local ruling elite, foreign dignitaries, as well as Chinese emperors. Other caves may have been funded by merchants, military officers, and other local people such as women's groups.\n\nDuring the Tang Dynasty, Dunhuang became the main hub of commerce of the Silk Road and a major religious centre. A large number of the caves were constructed at Mogao during this era, including the two large statues of Buddha at the site, the largest one constructed in 695 following an edict a year earlier by Tang Empress Wu Zetian to build giant statues across the country. The site escaped the persecution of Buddhists ordered by Emperor Wuzong in 845 as it was then under Tibetan control. As a frontier town, Dunhuang had been occupied at various times by other non-Han Chinese people. After the Tang Dynasty, the site went into a gradual decline, and construction of new caves ceased entirely after the Yuan Dynasty. By then Islam had conquered much of Central Asia, and the Silk Road declined in importance when trading via sea-routes began to dominate Chinese trade with the outside world. During the Ming Dynasty, the Silk Road was finally officially abandoned, and Dunhuang slowly became depopulated and largely forgotten by the outside world. Most of the Mogao caves were abandoned; the site, however, was still a place of pilgrimage and was used as a place of worship by local people at the beginning of the twentieth century when there was renewed interest in the site.\n\nDuring late nineteenth century and early twentieth century, Western explorers began to show interest in the ancient Silk Road and the lost cities of Central Asia, and those who passed through Dunhuang noted the murals, sculptures, and artifacts such as the Stele of Sulaiman at Mogao. The biggest discovery, however, came from a Chinese Taoist named Wang Yuanlu who appointed himself guardian of some of these temples around the turn of the century.\n\nSome of the caves had by then been blocked by sand, and Wang set about clearing away the sand and made an attempt at repairing the site. In one such cave, on 25 June 1900, Wang discovered a walled up area behind one side of a corridor leading to a main cave. Behind the wall was a small cave stuffed with an enormous hoard of manuscripts. In the next few years, Wang took some manuscripts to show to various officials who expressed varying level of interest, but in 1904 Wang re-sealed the cave following an order by the governor of Gansu.\nWords of Wang's discovery drew the attention of a joint British/Indian group led by the Hungarian-born British archaeologist Aurel Stein who was on an archaeological expedition in the area in 1907. Stein negotiated with Wang to allow him to remove a significant number of manuscripts as well as the finest paintings and textiles for a fee. He was followed by a French expedition under Paul Pelliot who acquired many thousands of items in 1908, and then by a Japanese expedition under Otani Kozui in 1911 and a Russian expedition under Sergei F. Oldenburg in 1914. A well-known scholar Luo Zhenyu edited some of the manuscripts Pelliot acquired into a volume which was then published in 1909 as \"Manuscripts of the Dunhuang Caves\" ().\n\nStein and Pelliot provoked much interest in the West about the Dunhuang Caves; however, there was initially little interest in official circles in China. Concerned that the remaining manuscripts might be lost, Luo Zhenyu and others persuaded the Ministry of Education to recover the rest of the manuscripts to be sent to Peking (Beijing) in 1910. However, not all the remaining manuscripts were taken to Peking, and of those retrieved, some were then stolen. Some of the caves were damaged and vandalized by White Russian soldiers when they were used by the local authority in 1921 to house Russian soldiers fleeing the civil war following the Russian Revolution. In 1924, American explorer Langdon Warner removed a number of murals as well as a statue from some of the caves. In 1939 Kuomingtang soldiers stationed at Dunhuang caused some damage to the murals and statues at the site.\n\nThe situation improved in 1941 when, following a visit by Wu Zuoren to the site the previous year, the painter Zhang Daqian arrived at the caves with a small team of assistants and stayed for two and a half years to repair and copy the murals. He exhibited and published the copies of the murals in 1943, which helped to publicize and give much prominence to the art of Dunhuang within China. Historian Xiang Da then persuaded Yu Youren, a prominent member of the Kuomintang (Chinese Nationalist Party), to set up an institution, the Research Institute of Dunhuang Art (which later became the Dunhuang Academy), at Mogao in 1944 to look after the site and its contents. In 1956, the first Premier of the People's Republic of China, Zhou Enlai, took a personal interest in the caves and sanctioned a grant to repair and protect the site; and in 1961, the Mogao Caves were declared to be a specially protected historical monument by the State Council, and large-scale renovation work at Mogao began soon afterwards. The site escaped the widespread damage caused to many religious sites during the Cultural Revolution.\n\nToday, efforts are continuing to conserve and research the site and its content. The Mogao Caves became one of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites in 1987. From 1988 to 1995 a further 248 caves were discovered to the North of the 487 caves known since the early 1900s.\n\nThe cave no. 17 discovered by Wang Yuanlu came to be known as the Library Cave. It is sited off the entrance leading to cave no.16, and was originally used as a memorial cave for a local monk Hongbian on his death in 862. Hongbian, from a wealthy Wu family, was responsible for the construction of cave 16, and the Library Cave may have been used as his retreat in his lifetime. The cave originally contained his statue which was moved to another cave when it was used to keep manuscripts, some of which bear Hongbian's seal. A large number of documents dating from 406 to 1002 were found in the cave, heaped up in closely packed layers of bundles of scrolls. In addition to the 1,100 bundles of scrolls, there were also over 15,000 paper books and shorter texts, including a Hebrew penitential prayer (selichah) (see Dunhuang manuscripts). The Library Cave also contained textiles such as banners, numerous damaged figurines of Buddhas, and other Buddhist paraphernalia. According to Stein who was the first to describe the cave in its original state:\nThe Library Cave was walled off sometime early in the 11th century. A number of theories have been proposed as the reason for sealing the caves. Stein first proposed that the cave had become a waste repository for venerable, damaged and used manuscripts and hallowed paraphernalia and then sealed perhaps when the place came under threat. Following this interpretation some suggested that the handwritten manuscripts of the Tripitaka became obsolete when printing became widespread, the older manuscripts were therefore stored away. Another suggestion is that the cave was simply used as a book storehouse for documents which accumulated over a century and a half, then sealed up when it became full.\nOthers, such as Pelliot, suggested an alternative scenario, that the monks hurriedly hid the documents in advance of an attack by invaders, perhaps when Xi Xia invaded in 1035. This theory was proposed in light of the absence of documents from Xi Xia and the disordered state in which Pelliot found the room (perhaps a misinterpretation because unbeknownst to him the room was disturbed by Stein months before). Another theory posits that the items were from a monastic library and hidden due to threats from Muslims who were moving eastward. This theory proposes that the monks of a nearby monastery heard about the fall of the Buddhist kingdom of Khotan to Karakhanids invaders from Kashgar in 1006 and the destruction it caused, so they sealed their library to avoid it being destroyed. The latest date recorded in the documents found in the cave is generally accepted to be 1002, and although other dates have been suggested, the cave was likely to have been sealed not long after that date.\n\nThe manuscripts from the Library Cave date from fifth century until early eleventh century when it was sealed. Up to 50,000 manuscripts may have been kept there, one of the greatest treasure troves of ancient documents found. While most of them are in Chinese, a large number of documents are in various other languages such as Tibetan, Uigur, Sanskrit, and Sogdian, including the then little-known Khotanese. They may be old hemp paper scrolls in Chinese and many other languages, Tibetan pothis, and paintings on hemp, silk or paper. The subject matter of the great majority of the scrolls is Buddhist in nature, but it also covers a diverse material. Along with the expected Buddhist canonical works are original commentaries, apocryphal works, workbooks, books of prayers, Confucian works, Taoist works, Nestorian Christian works, works from the Chinese government, administrative documents, anthologies, glossaries, dictionaries, and calligraphic exercises.\n\nMany of the manuscripts were previously unknown or thought lost, and the manuscripts provide a unique insight into the religious and secular matters of Northern China as well as other Central Asian kingdoms from the early periods up to the Tang and early Song Dynasty. The manuscripts found in the Library Cave include the earliest dated printed book, the Diamond Sutra from 868, which was first translated from Sanskrit into Chinese in the fourth century. These scrolls also include manuscripts that ranged from the Nestorian Jesus Sutras to the Dunhuang Go Manual and ancient music scores, as well as the image of the Chinese astronomy Dunhuang map. These scrolls chronicle the development of Buddhism in China, record the political and cultural life of the time, and provide documentation of mundane secular matters that gives a rare glimpse into the lives of ordinary people of these eras.\n\nThe manuscripts were dispersed all over the world in the aftermath of the discovery. Stein's acquisition was split between Britain and India because his expedition was funded by both countries. Stein had the first pick and he was able to collect around 7,000 complete manuscripts and 6,000 fragments for which he paid £130, although these include many duplicate copies of the Diamond and Lotus Sutras. Pelliot took almost 10,000 documents for the equivalent of £90, but, unlike Stein, Pelliot was a trained sinologist literate in Chinese, and he was allowed to examine the manuscripts freely, so he was able to pick a better selection of documents than Stein. Pelliot was interested in the more unusual and exotic of the Dunhuang manuscripts, such as those dealing with the administration and financing of the monastery and associated lay men's groups. Many of these manuscripts survived only because they formed a type of palimpsest whereby papers were reused and Buddhist texts were written on the opposite side of the paper. Hundreds more of the manuscripts were sold by Wang to Otani Kozui and Sergei Oldenburg. Efforts are now underway to reconstitute the Library Cave manuscripts digitally, and they are now available as part of International Dunhuang Project.\n\nThe art of Dunhuang covers more than ten major genres, such as architecture, stucco sculpture, wall paintings, silk paintings, calligraphy, woodblock printing, embroidery, literature, music and dance, and popular entertainment.\n\nThe caves are examples of rock-cut architecture, but unlike Longmen Grottoes and Yungang Grottoes, the local rock is a rather soft gravel conglomerate that is not suitable for either sculpture or elaborate architectural details. Many of the early caves were developed from earlier Buddhist rock-cut \"chaitya\" styles seen in places such as the Ajanta Caves in India, with a square-sectioned central column, with sculpture in niches, representing the stupa round which worshippers may circumambulate (\"parikrama\") and gain blessings. Others are hall caves influenced by traditional Chinese and Buddhist temple architecture. These caves may have a truncated pyramidal ceiling sometimes painted to resemble a tent, or they may have a flat or gabled ceiling that imitates traditional buildings. Some of the caves used for meditation are adaptations of the Indian vihara (monastery) cave plan and contain side-chambers just large enough for one person to sit in.\n\nMany of the caves originally had wooden porches or fore-temples built out from the cliff, but most of these have decayed or been lost in other ways, with only five remaining, the two earliest of which are rare surviving examples of Song dynasty wooden architecture. The most prominent wooden building at the site, first built during the Tang dynasty, houses the Great Buddha and was originally 4 storeys high, but it has been repaired at least 5 times and is no longer the original structure. A storey was added between 874-885, then repaired in the Guiyijun period, and two further storeys were added during a restoration in 1898. Two further restorations were carried out in the 20th century, and the building is now a 9-storey structure.\n\nThe murals in the caves date from a period of over a thousand years, from the 5th to the 14th century, and many earlier ones were repainted at later points within the period. The murals are extensive, covering an area of . The most fully painted caves have paintings all over the walls and ceilings, with geometrical or plant decoration filling the spaces not taken by figurative images, which are above all of the Buddha. Sculpture is also brightly painted. The murals are valued for the scale and richness of content as well as their artistry. Buddhist subjects are most common, however some have traditional mythical subjects and portraits of patrons. These murals document the changing styles of Buddhist art in China for nearly a thousand years. The artistry of the murals reached its apogee during the Tang period, and the quality of the work dropped after the tenth century.\n\nEarly murals showed a strong Indian and Central Asian influence in the painting techniques used, the composition and style of the paintings as well as costumes worn by the figures, but a distinct Dunhuang style began to emerge during Northern Wei Dynasty. Motifs of Chinese, Central Asian and Indian origin may be found in a single cave, and Chinese elements increased during the Western Wei period.\n\nA common motif in many caves is the areas entirely covered by rows of small seated Buddha figures, after which this and other \"Thousand Buddhas Caves\" are named. These small Buddhas were drawn using stencils so that identical figures may be replicated. Flying apsaras, or celestial beings may be depicted in the ceiling or above the Buddhas, and figures of donors may be shown along the bottom of the walls. The paintings often depict jataka tales which are stories of the life of Buddha, or avadana which are parables of the doctrine of karma.\n\nBodhisattvas started appearing during the Northern Zhou period, with Avalokitesvara (Guanyin), which was originally male but acquired female characteristics later, the most popular. Most caves show Mahayana and Sravakayana (Theravada or Hinayana) influences, although Mahayana Buddhism became the dominant form during the Sui Dynasty. An innovation of the Sui-Tang period is the visual representation of the sutra – Mahayana Buddhist teachings transformed into large complete and detailed narrative paintings. One of the central features of Tang art in Mogao is the representation of the paradise of the Pure Land, indicating the increasing popularity of this school of Mahayana Buddhism in the Tang era. The iconography of Tantric Buddhism, such as the eleven-headed or thousand-armed Avalokitesvara, also started to appear in Mogao wall paintings during the Tang period. It became popular during the Tibetan occupation of Dunhuang and the subsequent periods, especially during the Yuan dynasty.\nWhile Buddhist art is stylistically distinct from secular art, the style of paintings in the caves often reflects that of contemporary secular painting (insofar as we know of this), especially those depicting secular scenes. Donor figures are generally depicted in secular style, and may include secular events associated with them. For example, scenes depicting General Zhang Yichao, who ruled over Dunhuang in a quasi-autonomous manner during the Late Tang period, include a commemoration of his victory over the Tibetans in 848. The portraits of donors increased in size during the period ruled by the Cao family who succeeded the Zhang family. The Caos formed alliances with the Uyghurs (Uyghur Gansu Kingdom and Kingdom of Qocho) and the Saka Kingdom of Khotan and their portraits are featured prominently in some of the caves.\n\nMany of the figures have darkened due to oxidation of the lead-based pigments from exposure to air and light. Many early figures in the murals in Dunhuang also used painting techniques originated from India where shading was applied to achieve a 3-dimensional or chiaroscuro effect. However, the darkening of the paint used in shading over time resulted in heavy outlines which is not what the painters had originally intended. This shading technique is unique to Dunhuang in East Asia at this period as such shading on human faces was generally not done in Chinese paintings until much later when there were influences from European paintings. Another difference from traditional Chinese painting is the presence of figures that are semi-nude, occasionally fully nude, as figures are generally fully clothed in Chinese paintings. Many of the murals have been repaired or plastered over and repainted over the centuries, and older murals may be seen where sections of later paintings had been removed.\n\nThere are around 2,400 surviving clay sculptures at Mogao. These were first constructed on a wooden frame, padded with reed, then modelled in clay stucco, and finished with paint. The giant statues however have a stone core. The Buddha is generally shown as the central statue, often attended by boddhisattvas, heavenly kings, devas, and apsaras, along with yaksas and other mythical creatures. \nThe early figures are relatively simple and mainly of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas. The Buddhas of Northern Wei may have two attendant Bodhisattvas, and two further disciples were added in Northern Zhou, forming a group of five. Figures from the Sui and Tang periods may be present as larger groups of seven or nine, and some showed large-scale parinirvana scene with groups of mourners. The early sculptures were based on Indian and Central Asian prototypes, with some in the Greco-Indian style of Gandhara. Over time the sculptures showed more Chinese elements and became gradually sinicized.\n\nThe two giant statues represent Maitreya Buddha. The earlier and larger one in cave 96, at 35.5 m high, was constructed in 695 under the edicts from Empress Wu Zetian who instructed the constructions of monasteries in 689 and giant statues in 694. The smaller one is 27 m tall and was constructed in 713-41. The larger northern giant Buddha was damaged in an earthquake and had been repaired and restored multiple times, consequently its clothing, colour and gestures had been changed and only the head retains its original Early Tang appearance. The southern statue however is largely in its original form apart for its right hand. The larger Buddha is housed in a prominent wooden 9-storey structure.\nOne type of caves constructed during the Tibetan era is the Nirvana Cave, which features a large reclining Buddha that covers the entire length of the hall. Figures of mourners in murals or in sculptural forms are also depicted along the length of the hall behind the Buddha. The Buddha figure in cave 158 measures 15.6 m long.\n\nThe original function of the \"Library Cave\" was as a shrine commemorating Hong Bian, the 9th-century monk. His portrait statue, unusual here and among all surviving works in China, was removed to another spot when the cave was sealed up in the 11th century, but has been returned now the library has been removed. There is also a stone stele describing his life, and the wall behind the statue is painted with attendant figure; such blending of painted sculpture and wall paintings into a single composition is very common at the site.\n\nBefore the discovery in the Library Cave, original paintings on silk and paper from the Tang dynasty, a formative period in Chinese art, were very rare, and most of the surviving examples were copies made in later periods. Over a thousand paintings on silk, banners, and embroideries were found in the Library Cave, none apparently dating before the late 7th century. The great majority of the paintings are anonymous, but many are of high quality, especially from the Tang. Most are sutra paintings, images of Buddha, and narrative paintings. The paintings show something of the contemporary Chinese style of the capital Chang'an, but many also reflect Indian, Tibetan and Uighur painting styles.\n\nThere are brush paintings in ink alone, some in just two colours, as well as many in full colour. Most common are single figures, and most paintings were probably donated by an individual, who is often portrayed on a diminutive scale. The donor figures become notably more elaborate in dress by the 10th century.\n\nThe Library Cave is equally important as a source of rare early images and texts produced by woodblock printing, including the famous Diamond Sutra, the earliest printed book to survive. Other printed images were made to be hung, often with text below containing prayers and sometimes a dedication by the pious commissioner; at least two prints were commissioned by Cao Yuanzhong, Imperial Commissioner at Dunhuang in 947. Many of the images have colour added by hand to the printed outline. Several sheets contain repeated impressions of the same block with a Buddha image. Possibly these reflect stock for cutting when sold to pilgrims, but inscriptions in some examples show these were also printed out at different times by an individual as a devotion to acquire merit. It is unclear whether such people owned their own blocks, or visited a monastery to have the images printed.\n\nThe textiles found in the Library Cave include silk banners, altar hangings, wrappings for manuscripts, and monks' apparel (kāṣāya). The monks normally used fabrics consisting of a patchwork of different scraps of cloth as a sign of humility; these therefore provide valuable insights into the various type of silk cloth and embroidery available at the time. Silk banners were used to adorn the cliff-face at the caves during festivals, and these are painted and may be embroidered. Valances used to decorate altars and temples had a horizontal strip at the top, from which hung streamers made from strips of different cloths ending in a V that look like a modern male necktie.\n\nThe caves were cut into the side of a cliff which is close to two kilometers long. At its height, during the Tang Dynasty, there were more than a thousands caves, but over time many of the caves were lost, including the earliest caves. 735 caves currently exist in Mogao; the best-known ones are the 487 caves located in the southern section of the cliff which are places of pilgrimage and worship. 248 caves have also been found to the north which were living quarters, meditation chambers, and burial sites for the monks. The caves at the southern section are decorated, while those at the northern section are mostly plain.\n\nThe caves are clustered together according to their era, with new caves from a new dynasty being constructed in different part of the cliff. From the murals, sculptures, and other objects found in the caves, the dates of around five hundred caves have been determined. Following is a list of the caves by era, compiled in the 1980s (more have been identified since):\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "743901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=743901", "title": "Mount Zion", "text": "Mount Zion\n\nMount Zion (, \"Har Tsiyyon\"; , \"Jabal Sahyoun\") is a hill in Jerusalem just outside the walls of the Old City. The term Mount Zion has been used in the Hebrew Bible first for the City of David (, ; , ) and later for the Temple Mount, but its meaning has shifted and it is now used as the name of ancient Jerusalem's Western Hill. In a wider sense, the term is also used for the entire Land of Israel.\n\nThe etymology of the word \"Zion\" is uncertain. Mentioned in the Bible in the Book of Samuel (2 Samuel 5:7) as the name of the Jebusite fortress conquered by King David, its origin likely predates the Israelites. If Semitic, it may be associated with the Hebrew root \"\"ṣiyyôn\" (\"castle\"). Though not spoken in Jerusalem until hundreds of years later, the name is similar in Arabic and may be connected to the root \"ṣiyya\" (\"dry land\") or the Arabic \"šanā\" (\"protect\" or \"citadel\"). It might also be related to the Arabic root \"ṣahî\" (\"ascend to the top\") or \"ṣuhhay\" (\"tower\" or \"the top of the mountain\"). A non-Semitic relationship to the Hurrian word \"šeya\" (\"river\" or \"brook\") has also been suggested. \n\n\"Sahyun\" (, \"Ṣahyūn\" or \"Ṣihyūn\") is the word for Zion in Arabic and Syriac. A valley called \"Wâdi Sahyûn\" (\"wadi\" being the Arabic for \"valley\") seemingly preserves the name and is located approximately one and three-quarter miles () from the Old City of Jerusalem's Jaffa Gate.\n\nThe phrase \"Har Tzion\", lit. \"Mount Zion\", appears nine times in the Tanakh. It is spelled with a Tzadi and not Zayin.\n\nThe name \"Mount Zion\" referred successively to three locations, as Jerusalemites preserved the time-honoured name, but shifted the location they venerated as the focal point of biblical Jerusalem to the site considered most appropriate in their own time.\n\nAt first, Mount Zion was the name given to the Jebusite fortified city on the lower part of ancient Jerusalem's Eastern Hill, also known as the City of David.\n\nAccording to the Book of Samuel, Mount Zion was the site of the Jebusite fortress called the \"stronghold of Zion\" that was conquered by King David, then renamed and partially rebuilt by him as the \"City of David\", where he erected his palace.\n\nOnce the First Temple was erected at the top of the Eastern Hill, the name \"Mount Zion\" migrated there too.\n\nAfter the conquest of the Jebusite city, its build-up area expanded northward towards the uppermost part of the same, Eastern Hill. This highest part became the site of Solomon's Temple.\n\nThe identification of the pre-Israelite (Jebusite) and Israelite towns on the Eastern Hill is based on the existence of only one perennial water source in the area, the Gihon Spring, and on archaeological excavations revealing sections of the Bronze Age and Iron Age city walls and water systems.\n\nThe \"Mount Zion\" mentioned in the later parts of the Book of Isaiah (), in the Book of Psalms, and the First Book of Maccabees (c. 2nd century BCE) seems to refer to the top of the hill, generally known as the Temple Mount.\n\nThe last shift of the name Mount Zion was to the Western Hill, which is more dominant than the Eastern Hill and seemed to first-century CE Jerusalemites the worthier location for the by-then lost palace of King David. The Western Hill is what today is called Mount Zion.\n\nIn the second half of the First Temple period, the city expanded westward and its defensive walls were extended to include the entire Western Hill behind them. Nebuchadnezzar II destroyed the city almost completely around 586 BCE, severing the continuity of historical memory. A long period of rebuilding followed, ending with Jerusalem's second total destruction at the hands of the Romans in 70 CE. Josephus, the first-century CE historian who knew the city as it was before this second catastrophic event, identified Mount Zion as being the Western Hill, separated from the lower, Eastern Hill, by what he calls the \"Tyropoeon Valley\". It must however be said that Josephus never used the name \"Mount Zion\" in any of his writings, but described the \"Citadel\" of King David as being situated on the higher and longer hill, thus pointing at the Western Hill as what the Bible calls Mount Zion.\n\nAt the end of the Roman period, a synagogue was built at the entrance of the structure known as David's Tomb, probably based on the belief that David brought the Ark of the Covenant here from Beit Shemesh and Kiryat Ye'arim before the construction of the Temple.\n\nDuring the 1948 war, Mount Zion was conquered by the Harel Brigade on May 18, 1948 and became the only part of the Old City to stay in Israeli hands until the armistice. At first it was linked to the Jewish neighborhood of Yemin Moshe across the Valley of Hinnom via a narrow tunnel, but eventually an alternative was needed to evacuate the wounded and transport supplies to soldiers on Mt. Zion. A cable car capable of carrying a load of 250 kilograms was designed for this purpose. The cable car was only used at night and lowered into the valley during the day to escape detection; it is still in place at what is now the Mount Zion Hotel. The ride from the Israeli position at the St. John Eye Hospital to Mount Zion took two minutes.\n\nBetween 1948 and 1967, when the Old City was under Jordanian rule, Israelis were forbidden access to the Jewish holy places. Mount Zion was a designated no-man's land between Israel and Jordan. Mount Zion was the closest accessible site to the ancient Jewish Temple. Until East Jerusalem was captured by Israel in the Six-Day War, Israelis would climb to the rooftop of David's Tomb to pray. The winding road leading up to Mount Zion is known as Pope's Way (\"Derekh Ha'apifyor\"). It was paved in honor of the historic visit to Jerusalem of Pope Paul VI in 1964.\n\nThe Tanakh reference to \"Har Tzion\" (Mount Tzion) that identifies its location is derived from the Psalm 48 composed by the sons of Korah, i.e. Levites, as \"the northern side of the city of the great king\", which Radak interprets as the City of David \"from the City of David, which is Zion (1 Kings 8:1-2; 2 Chron. 5:2)\". 2 Samuel 5:7 also reads, \"David took the strong hold of Zion: the same is the city of David,\" which identifies Mount Tzion as part of the City of David, and not an area outside today's Old City of Jerusalem. Rashi identifies the location as the source of \"joy\" mentioned in the Psalm as the Temple Courtyard, the location of atonement offerings in the northern part of the Temple complex.\n\nIn the New Testament, Mount Zion is used metaphorically to refer to the heavenly Jerusalem, God’s holy, eternal city. Christians are said to have “ . . . come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly and church of the firstborn who are registered in heaven” (Hebrews 12:22-23 cf. Revelation 14:1).\n\nImportant sites on Mount Zion are Dormition Abbey, King David's Tomb and the Room of the Last Supper. Most historians and archeologists today do not regard \"David's Tomb\" there to be the actual burial place of King David. The Chamber of the Holocaust (\"Martef HaShoah\"), the precursor of Yad Vashem, is also located on Mount Zion. Another place of interest is the Catholic cemetery where Oskar Schindler, a Righteous Gentile who saved the lives of 1,200 Jews in the Holocaust, is buried. \n\nNotable burials in the Protestant cemetery on Mt. Zion include a number of prominent individuals from the 19th and 20th centuries. These include explorers and archaeologists such as: Flinders Petrie, Charles Frederick Tyrwhitt Drake, James Duncan, Clarence Stanley Fisher, Charles Lambert and James Leslie Starkey; the architect Conrad Schick; and pioneers in the fields of medicine, education, religion, diplomacy and social services such as James Edward Hanauer, Ernest Masterman, John Nicholayson, Paul Palmer, Max Sandreczky, Johann Ludwig Schneller, Horatio G. Spafford, author of the hymn \"It Is Well With My Soul\". Also buried in the cemetery are G. Douglas Young, founder of Jerusalem University College, and his wife Georgina (Snook) Young. The cemetery is also the final resting place for a number of soldiers who fought in the First World War, as well as members of the Palestinian Police who served under the British mandate. Several persons buried here were killed in the bombing of the King David Hotel on the morning of 22 July 1946.\n\nIn 1874, an Englishman, Henry Maudsley, discovered a large segment of rock scarp and numerous ancient dressed stones on Mount Zion that were believed to be the base of Josephus's First Wall. Several of these stones were used to construct a retaining wall outside the main gate of the Bishop Gobat school (later known as the American Institute of Holy Land Studies and Jerusalem University College).\n\n"}
{"id": "26301469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26301469", "title": "Nikolay Baransky", "text": "Nikolay Baransky\n\nNikolay Nikolayevich Baransky () ( — 20 November 1963) was a Soviet economic geographer, founder of Soviet Rayon (Regional) school of economic geography, and corresponding member of Soviet Academy of Sciences (1939); he was a Hero of Socialist Labour (1962) and winner of the Stalin prize (1952).\n\nNikolay Baransky was born in Tomsk into the family of a teacher. In 1898 he joined Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (RSDLP). In 1899 he graduated from grammar school with a gold medal and entered law department of Tomsk University. During his studies he continued to be engaged in public work. In 1901 he was excluded from university for participation in a student demonstration. Soon after that he wrote his first geographical work, concerning the property stratification of immigrants in the villages of the Barnaul district (published in 1907).\n\nIn 1902 joined Siberian social-democratic group, which later joined the Siberian Social-Democratic Union–RSDLP Committee. In 1906-08 he was engaged in revolutionary activity, has been three times arrested, long time was in custody. After release from prison, he left party and lived in Ufa. In years 1910-1914 Baranskiy studied at economic branch of Moscow commercial institute. After graduation he worked in the Zemgor committee. In 1917 he joined the ranks of Mensheviks-internationalists (in 1920 he became a Bolshevik).\n\nIn 1919-20 he worked in Supreme Soviet of the National Economy.\n\nBaransky led research in areas of regional economic geography and geography of cities. Baransky is the author of several textbooks on economic geography of the USSR for high schools, works on social and economic geography and economic cartography.\n\nNikolay Baransky was awarded three Orders of Lenin, two other orders and medals. He died in Moscow, and is buried on Novodevichy Cemetery. In Tomsk, memorial plaque is placed on the house where he lived. Volcano on Iturup island and street in Alma-Ata are named in his honour.\n\n\nIn 1939 Baranskiy was elected corresponding member of Soviet Academy of Sciences. In 1946 he was nominated for election to full member of Soviet Academy of Sciences, but refused the nomination and supported Lev Berg.\n\nUnder the direction of Baransky Soviet regional school became dominating field in the Soviet economic geography. Baransky authored several textbooks on economic geography of the USSR for high schools, works on social and economic geography and economic cartography.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4037404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4037404", "title": "Norra Botkyrka", "text": "Norra Botkyrka\n\nNorra Botkyrka (North Botkyrka) usually refers to the northern residential areas of Botkyrka Municipality near Stockholm in Sweden.\n\nNorra Botkyrka was until the 1970s an agricultural community with only a few inhabitants consisting of a few large estates (Norsborg, Hallunda, Slagsta, Fittja and Alby) and a large protected area around the Lake Bornsjö which was and still is a reserve for the drinking water supply for the city of Stockholm. Within a few years during the 1970s, the municipalities of Stockholm and Botkyrka cooperated to build a \"New Town\" for more than 30,000 inhabitants.\n\nThe idea of a new town concept for Norra Botkyrka was influenced by new towns in the United Kingdom.\n\nDuring archeological excavations prior to the building of the \"New Town\" there were found a number of rock carvings in the Slagsta area indicating that there was an agricultural population here already during the Bronze Age. During excavations conducted under the guidance of the Historic Museum of Stockholm there were found in the Hallunda area Bronze Age dwellings together with a number of bronze smelting hearths and ceramic remains from Central Europe showing that there must have been far reaching trading relations already this early.\n\nAlready from early historic times the trunkroad from Stockholm to the continent passed through Norra Botkyrka. There are now also four stations on the Stockholm Metro here: Norsborg, Hallunda, Alby and Fittja.\n\nThe area was made famous in the late 1990s through the local hip hop group called The Latin Kings who often refers to this area in their lyrics. It is also known as one of the most multi-cultural places in Sweden with a majority of the population being first or second generation immigrants. Most of these originate from the Middle East with other significant groups from for example Turkey, Chile, Finland, former Yugoslavia, China, Pakistan and the Horn of Africa. Thus in the 1970s, the municipality of Botkyrka elected the first foreign born mayor in Sweden.\n"}
{"id": "373252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373252", "title": "Pampas", "text": "Pampas\n\nThe Pampas (from the , meaning \"plain\") are fertile South American lowlands that cover more than and include the Argentine provinces of Buenos Aires, La Pampa, Santa Fe, Entre Ríos and Córdoba; all of Uruguay; and the southernmost Brazilian State, Rio Grande do Sul. The vast plains are a natural region, interrupted only by the low Ventana and Tandil hills, near Bahía Blanca and Tandil (Argentina), with a height of and , respectively.\n\nThe climate is warm, with precipitation of that is more or less evenly distributed through the year, making the soils appropriate for agriculture. The area is also one of the distinct physiography provinces of the larger Paraná-Paraguay Plain division.\n\nThe climate of the Pampas is generally temperate, gradually giving away to a more subtropical climate in the north and to a semiarid climate on the western fringes (like San Luis Province and western La Pampa Province). Summer temperatures are more uniform than winter temperatures, generally ranging from during the day. However, most cities in the Pampas occasionally have high temperatures that push , as occurs when a warm, dry, northerly wind blows from southern Brazil. Autumn arrives gradually in March, and peaks in April and May. In April, highs range from and lows from . The first frosts arrive in mid-April in the south, and in late May or early June in the north.\n\nWinters are generally mild, but cold waves still occur. Normal temperatures range from during the day, and from at night. With strong northerly winds, days of over can be recorded almost everywhere, and during cold waves, high temperatures can be only . Frost occurs everywhere in the Pampas, but it is much more frequent in the southwest than around the Parana and Uruguay Rivers. Temperatures under can occur everywhere, but values of or lower are confined to the south and west. Snow never falls in the northernmost third and is rare and light elsewhere, except for exceptional events in which depths have reached .\n\nSprings are very variable; it is warmer than fall in most areas (especially in the west) but significantly colder along the Atlantic. Violent storms are more common as well as wide temperature variations: days of can give way to nights of under or even frost, all within only a few days.\n\nPrecipitation ranges from in the northeast, to about in the southern and western edges. In the west, it is highly seasonal, with some places recording averages of monthly in the summer, and only monthly in the winter. The eastern areas have small peaks in the fall and in the spring, with relatively rainy summers and winters that are only slightly drier. However, where summer rain falls as short, heavy storms, winter rain falls mostly as cold drizzle and so the amount of rainy days is fairly constant. Very intense thunderstorms are common in the spring and summer, and it has among the most frequent lightning and highest convective cloud tops in the world. The severe thunderstorms produce intense hailstorms, and both floods and flash floods, as well as the most consistently active tornado region outside the central and southeastern US.\n\nHerbivores of the pampas are the pampas deer, guanaco, gray brocket, dwarf mara, plains viscacha, Brazilian guinea pig, southern mountain cavy and coypu. The biggest predator of the region is the puma followed by the maned wolf, pampas fox, geoffroy's cat, lesser grison as well as the omnivorous white-eared opossum and molinas hog-nosed skunk.\n\nBird species of the pampas are ruddy-headed goose, pampas meadowlark, hudsonian godwit, maguari stork, white-faced ibis, white-winged coot, southern screamer, dot-winged crake, curve-billed reedhaunter, burrowing owl and the rhea.\n\nFrequent wildfires ensure that only small plants such as grasses flourish, and trees are less common. The dominant vegetation types are grassy prairie and grass steppe in which numerous species of the grass genus \"Stipa\" are particularly conspicuous. \"Pampas grass\" (\"Cortaderia selloana\") is an iconic species of the Pampas. Vegetation typically includes perennial grasses and herbs. Different strata of grasses occur because of gradients of water availability.\n\nThe World Wildlife Fund divides the Pampas into three distinct ecoregions. The Uruguayan Savanna lies east of the Parana River, and includes all of Uruguay, most of Entre Ríos and Corrientes provinces in Argentina, and the southern portion of Brazil's state of Rio Grande do Sul. The Humid Pampas include eastern Buenos Aires Province, and southern Entre Ríos Province. The Semiarid Pampas includes western Buenos Aires Province and adjacent portions of Santa Fe, Córdoba, and La Pampa provinces. The Pampas are bounded by the drier Argentine espinal grasslands, which form a semicircle around the north, west, and south of the Humid Pampas.\n\nWinters are cool to mild and summers are very warm and humid. Rainfall is fairly uniform throughout the year, but is a little heavier during the summer. Annual rainfall is heaviest near the coast and decreases gradually further inland. Rain during the late spring and summer usually arrives in the form of brief heavy showers and thunderstorms. More general rainfall occurs the remainder of the year as cold fronts and storm systems move through. Although cold spells during the winter often send nighttime temperatures below freezing, snow is quite rare. In most winters, a few light snowfalls occur over inland areas.\n\nCentral Argentina boasts a successful agricultural business, with crops grown on the Pampas south and west of Buenos Aires. Much of the area is also used for cattle and more recently to grow vineyards in the Buenos Aires wine region. These farming regions are particularly susceptible to flooding during the thunderstorms. In the Pampas, the weather averages out to be year round.\n\nStarting in the 1840s but intensifying after the 1880s, European immigrants started to migrate to the Pampas, first as part of government-sponsored colonization schemes to settle the land and later as tenant farmers \"working as either sharecroppers or as paid laborers for absentee landowners\" in an attempt to make a living for themselves.\n\nHowever, many immigrants eventually moved to more permanent employment in cities, as industrialization picked up after the 1930s. As a result, Argentina's history of immigration in Buenos Aires Province is typically associated with cities and urban life, unlike in Entre Ríos Province and Santa Fe Province, where European immigration took on a more rural profile.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4583254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4583254", "title": "Pargana", "text": "Pargana\n\nA pargana (, , , ), or parganah, also spelt pergunnah during the time of the Sultanate period, Mughal times and British Raj, is a former administrative unit of the Indian subcontinent, used primarily, but not exclusively, by the Muslim kingdoms.\n\n\"Parganas\" were introduced by the Delhi Sultanate, and the word is of Persian origin. As a revenue unit, a pargana consists of several \"mouzas\", which are the smallest revenue units, consisting of one or more villages and the surrounding countryside. Subdivisions of parganas were called Mouzas (area, settlements).\n\nUnder the reign of Sher Shah Suri, administration of parganas was strengthened by the addition of other officers, including a shiqdar (police chief), an amin or munsif (an arbitrator who assessed and collected revenue) and a karkun (record keeper).\n\nIn the 16th century the Mughal emperor Akbar organised the empire into \"subahs\" (roughly equivalent of state or province), which were further subdivided into sarkars (roughly the equivalent of districts), which were themselves organised into \"parganas\" (roughly the equivalent of district subdivisions such as tehsil). In the Mughal system, \"parganas\" served as the local administrative units of a \"sarkar\". Individual parganas observed common customs regarding land rights and responsibilities, which were known as the \"pargana dastur\", and each pargana had its own customs regarding rent, fees, wages, and weights and measures, known as the \"pargana nirikh\".\n\nPargana consisted of several tarafs, which in their turn consisted of several villages plus some uninhabited mountain and forest land.\n\nAs the British expanded into former Mughal provinces, starting with Bengal, they at first retained the \"pargana\" administration, but, under the Governorship of Charles Cornwallis, enacted the Permanent Settlement of 1793, which abolished the \"pargana\" system in favour of the \"zamindari\" system, in which \"zamindars\" were made the absolute owners of rural lands, and abolished the \"pargana dastur\" and \"pargana nirikh\". British administration consisted of districts, which were divided into tehsils or taluks. \"Parganas\" remained important as a geographical term, persisting in land surveys, village identification, court decrees,\n\nThe \"pargana\" system persisted in several princely states, including Tonk and Gwalior. Parganas disappeared almost completely after the independence of India and Pakistan in 1947, although the term lives on in place names, like the districts of North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas in India's West Bengal state.\n\n"}
{"id": "29854203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29854203", "title": "Plantmaps", "text": "Plantmaps\n\nPlantmaps.com is reference website that contains several interactive maps and tools to assist gardeners, botanists, farmers and horticulturalists. By entering a ZIP code, users can find the USDA hardiness zone, first and last frost dates, heat zones, drought conditions and annual climatology for their area.\n\nbuilt using the google maps api, plantmaps.com has the only fully interactive USDA hardiness zones map available on the web. In addition to plant hardiness zone map covering the continental United States, there are detailed interactive hardiness zone maps for each individual state. Plantmaps allows the user to locate their hardiness zone based on current US Postal Service ZIP codes. The ZIP code search will zoom to the coverage area of the selected ZIP code.\n\nPlantmaps allows other websites to embed the USDA hardiness zone to ZIP code search tool in their websites by adding an iframe widget to their site, allowing visitors to easily find their local hardiness zone.\n\nIn response to the latency of the current official USDA hardiness zone map (produced in 1990 using data from 1974 to 1986), plantmaps has created a new hardiness zone map using historical data from the National Climatic Data Center that covers longer time periods and uses climate record data from as recently as 2009. There is an updated plantmaps hardiness zones map for each individual state in the Continental US.\n\nUsing long term climatology data from the National Climatology Data Center, Plantmaps has created interactive average annual first frost and average annual last frost date maps for each individual state. These maps break the average frost dates into 10 day/date increments.\n\nUsing shapefile data available from the National Drought Mitigation Center, plantmaps has created statewide interactive Drought Monitor Maps that are updated weekly with the latest drought monitor conditions throughout the US.\n\nPlantmaps provides an interactive Palmer Drought Index map for each state. The interactive drought index maps use the latest data supplied by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and allows the map user to select and highlight the specific climate divisions in each state.\n\nPlantmaps has created interactive versions of all available level IV Environmental Protection Agency ecoregion maps that allow the user to zoom to identify each individual region. Ecoregions denote areas within which ecosystems (and the type, quality, and quantity of environmental resources) are generally similar. Currently, level IV maps are available for all states except Arizona, California, Hawaii and Alaska.\n\nPlantmaps contains interactive heat zone maps for each state. Heat zones display the average frequency of annual days where the temperature exceeds 86 degrees fahrenheit. Heat zones are useful for determining the survivability of specific plants and trees in extreme temperature conditions. It is also useful for determining suitability for plants and trees such as palm trees that require warm temperatures for growth.\n\nPlantmaps has interactive plant and tree distribution maps for 800 North American flora. The distribution maps contain overlays of USDA hardiness zones for analysis of plant and tree range versus hardiness zone.\n\nIn January 2011, Plantmaps released an interactive Canada plant hardiness zone map using up to date climatology data from Canadian National Climate Data Archive.\n\n"}
{"id": "18919109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18919109", "title": "Qirmizi Bazar", "text": "Qirmizi Bazar\n\nGirmizi Bazar (Azerbaijani: Qırmızı Bazar; Armenian: Կարմիր Շուկա, Karmir Shuka or Karmir Shouka, Russian Красный Базар, all meaning \"Red Market\") is a village in the Khojavend Rayon of the Nagorno-Karabakh region in Azerbaijan (\"de facto\" Artsakh Republic).\n"}
{"id": "1868081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1868081", "title": "Saneeya Hussain", "text": "Saneeya Hussain\n\nSaneeya Hussain (13 August 1954 – 20 April 2005) was a Pakistani journalist and environmentalist. She married a Brazilian man in 1998 and died in Brazil in 2005.\n\nSaneeya began her career at MNJ Pakisan working for Javed Jabbar as a copywriter in 1978. In the mid-eighties, Saneeya edited The Star Weekend magazine. The paper was a platform for dissenting views. Banned columnists had to keep changing their names to continue writing, and the women’s movement that was so alive in those days found plenty of space in the magazines pages. She was also a member of the Shirkat Gah Collective which catalyzed the Women’s Action Forum, the lobby group that so fiercely resisted the Zia regime. When “the red scribbles from upstairs” got unbearable, in early 1988, she left.\n\nSaneeya moved on to join the World Conservation Union (IUCN) – and was also among one of the first Pakistanis to participate in people-to-people contact with Indian environmentalists. She also set up the pioneering Journalists Resource Centre that trained and encouraged journalists in environmental reporting.\n\nSaneeyas involvement in the Pakistan's National Conservation Strategy (NCS) drafted at that time included the path-breaking NCS Bulletin (later \"The Way Ahead\" magazine), and its Urdu counterpart, Jareeda, edited by Obaidullah Baig.\n\n"}
{"id": "36901252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36901252", "title": "Sangha Trinational", "text": "Sangha Trinational\n\nSangha Trinational is a forest divided between the nations of Central African Republic, Cameroon and Congo-Brazzaville. It was added as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "22560957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22560957", "title": "Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Montserrat", "text": "Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Montserrat\n\nThe Speaker is the presiding officer of the Legislative Assembly of Montserrat. The Speaker is elected by MPs, and does not have to be an Assembly member. There is also a Deputy Speaker, who is elected by MPs from amongst their own numbers, although they cannot also be a member of the cabinet.\n"}
{"id": "18062821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18062821", "title": "Table (landform)", "text": "Table (landform)\n\nA table or tableland is a butte, flank of a mountain, or mountain, that has a flat top. \n\nThis landform has numerous names in addition to \"table\", including:\n\nThe term \"flat\" is relative when speaking of tables, and often the naming or identification of a table (or table hill or mountain) is based on the appearance of the terrain feature from a distance or from below it. An example is Mesa Verde, Colorado, where the \"flat top\" of the mountain is both rolling terrain and cut by numerous deep canyons and arroyos, but whose rims appear quite flat from almost all directions, terminating in cliffs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2444092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2444092", "title": "Telephone numbers in Austria", "text": "Telephone numbers in Austria\n\nThis article details the use of telephone numbers in Austria.\n\nThere are no standard lengths for either area codes or subscriber numbers in Austria, meaning that some subscriber numbers may be as short as three digits. Larger towns have shorter area codes permitting longer subscriber numbers in that area. Some examples:\n\nThe assignment of mobile phone numbers can vary, due to number ù.\n\nIn ascending numeric order:\n\n\nDue to number portability, the code is not an accurate way to determine the provider of a given phone number. The providers assign only in exceptional cases (special sort of custom numbers, more expensive) non-existing numbers with a different prefix, and this is handled similarly to porting an existing number from the desired network. However, the providers still have administrative sovereignty over their own prefixes.\n\n"}
{"id": "12692623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12692623", "title": "Telephone numbers in the Philippines", "text": "Telephone numbers in the Philippines\n\nTelephone numbers in the Philippines follow an open telephone numbering plan and an open dial plan. Both plans are regulated by the National Telecommunications Commission, an attached agency under the Department of Information and Communications Technology (DICT).\n\nThe Philippines is assigned an international dialling code of 63 by ITU-T. Telephone numbers are fixed at seven digits, with area codes fixed at one, two, or three digits (a six-digit system was used until the mid-1990s; four to five digits were used in the countryside). Mobile phone numbers are always 10 digits (three digits for the service provider, plus a seven-digit number).\n\nWhen making long-distance calls in the Philippines, the prefix 0 for domestic calls and 00 for international calls are used.\n\nPhilippine area codes for fixed-line or landline telephones are fixed at two digits, excluding Metro Manila, the province of Rizal and the towns and cities of Obando in Bulacan, Bacoor in Cavite and San Pedro, Laguna, which use the area code 2. Some smaller carriers concentrated within a specific geographic area may issue four- or five-digit area codes, but these are being phased out in favour of the standard two-digit area codes.\n\nOccasionally, a particular area may change area codes. For example, the City of Bacoor in Cavite has been included in the geographical coverage area of area code 2 per the National Telecommunications Commission's Memorandum Order No. 08-09-2011, although almost all fixed-lines in the city still use the old 46 area code due to the poor compliance of PLDT and Globe to the said memorandum order. PLDT's response to the memorandum order is the release of its \"Call All Manila SIM\", an exclusive wireless landline service for Bacoor residents, however the Barangay Molino VII (Sitio Gawaran) and Sitio Malipay in Molino IV now used area code 2.\n\nSometimes area codes are shared by a number of local government entities to maximise their use. Some area codes are shared by multiple provinces, as is the case for former sub-provinces like Guimaras and Iloilo; newly carved provinces like Zamboanga Sibugay and Zamboanga del Sur; or provinces with small populations like Marinduque and Quezon. In extreme cases, area codes are shared across an island like in Leyte and Samar, or even entire regions, such as with the Cordillera Administrative Region. In order to identify the call's point of origin, the three-digit telephone exchange prefix is checked.\n\nSince the Philippines employs an open dial plan, telephone numbers dialled within a given area code do not require the area code, excluding calls made from mobile phones or pay phones. When dialling other area codes, the domestic long distance access prefix 0 is added, but when dialling from overseas, the domestic prefix is not included. As such, a typical telephone number in Metro Manila and Rizal would look like this:\n\n\nAreas are grouped into seven broad areas determining the first digit of a given area code. These areas and their accompanying area codes are listed below:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMobile phone area codes are three digits long and always start with the number 9, although recently new area codes have been issued with 8 as the starting digit, particularly for VOIP phone numbers. However, the area code indicates the \"service provider\" and not necessarily a geographic region. Unlike fixed-line telephones, the long-distance telephone dialling format is always observed when using a mobile phone. Therefore, mobile phone numbers always have the format \"+63 (9957867765) xxx-xxxx\" for international callers and \"0(9957867765) xxx-xxxx\" for domestic callers.\n\nSome of the first area codes to be assigned for mobile phones were 912 for Mobiline/Piltel, 915 for Islacom, 917 for Globe Telecom, 918 for Smart Communications, and 973 for Express Telecom. As service began growing rapidly since the 1990s, new codes have been added to meet demand as existing codes have since been exhausted. Newer codes often come immediately after the last code exhausted, but this might not be the case if the next code is already in use. 965/966 are the latest codes (Feb 2018) and are used for Globe & TM.\n\nAreas codes are grouped by provider with no single contiguous block of codes for a single provider. The companies and their respective area codes are listed below:\n\n\"The list of prefixes is updated as of December 2018\" \n\nKey:\n\nNotes:<br>† - Inactive<br>‡ - Defunct\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35356715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35356715", "title": "Top-lit updraft gasifier", "text": "Top-lit updraft gasifier\n\nA top-lit updraft gasifier (also known as a TLUD) is a micro-kiln used to produce charcoal, especially biochar, and heat for cooking. A TLUD pyrolyzes organic material, including wood or manure, and uses a reburner to eliminate volatile byproducts of pyrolization. The process leaves mostly carbon as a residue, which can be incorporated into soil to create terra preta.\n\nDr Thomas B Reed and the Norwegian architect Paal Wendelbo independently developed the working idea of a TLUD gasifier in the 1990s.\n\nA TLUD gasifier takes it further from a rocket stove in more efficient way of smoke-free, highly efficient combustion of the fuel.\n\nA TLUD gasifier stove is commonly constructed with two concentric cylindrical containers.\n\nThe inner cylinder is the fuel pot. The fuel pot has holes in the base. These holes are the primary air inlet. The fuel pot also has holes on the neck, like the skirt, serving as a secondary air inlet.\n\nThe outer cylinder has holes near the bottom on the sides. During combustion, air enters these holes, either by natural air draft or forced with a DC fan depending on requirement and construction model.\n\nAny biomass with less than 20% water content can be used as fuel. The user fills the fuel pot up to the neck, just below the secondary air inlet holes. The user ignites the top layer of fuel for the pyrolysis to start. Air then flows in through the primary and secondary air inlets. The primary inlet helps the draft of pyrolysed wood gas flow up.\n\nThe secondary air inlet blows hot air by the time it travels around the fuel pot. The secondary inlet above the fuel layer helps burn the wood gas. \n\nYouTube has many instructional videos, with further explanation on other websites.\nA range of construction plans to make TLUD gasifier stoves\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12077540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12077540", "title": "Tropical Africa", "text": "Tropical Africa\n\nAlthough tropical Africa is mostly familiar to the West for its rainforests, this ecozone of Africa is far more diverse. While the tropics are thought of as regions with warm to hot moist climates caused by latitude and the tropical rain belt, the geology of areas, particularly mountain chains, and geographical relation to continental and regional scale winds impact the overall parts of areas , also, making the tropics run from arid to humid in West Africa. The area has very serious overpopulation problems.\n\nTropical rainforests are tropical moist forests of semi-deciduous varieties distributed across nine West African countries. Institute for Sea Research conducted a temperature record dating back to 700,000 years ago. Several conservation and development demographic settings are such that the most loss of rain forests has occurred in countries of higher population growth. Lack of dependable data and survey information in some countries has made the account of areas of unbroken forest and/or under land use change and their relation to economic indicators difficult to ascertain. Hence, the amount and rate of deforestation in Africa are less known than other regions of tropics..\n\nThe term deforestation refers to the complete obstruction of forest canopy cover for means of agriculture, plantations, cattle-ranching, and other non-forest fields. Other forest use changes for example are forest disintegration (changing the spatial continuity and creating a mosaic of forest blocks and other land cover types), and dreadful conditions (selective logging of woody species for profitable purposes that affects the forest subfloor and the biodiversity). The general meaning to the term deforestation is linked not only to the value system but the type of measurement designed to assess it. Thus, the same interpretations of deforestation cause noticeable changes in the estimate of forests cleared.\n\nOne reason for forest depletion is to grow cash crops. Nine West African countries depend on cash crop exports. Products like gum, copal, rubber, cola nuts, and palm oil provide rather steady income revenue for the West African countries. Land use change spoils entire habitats with the forests. Converting forests into timber is another cause of deforestation. Over decades, the primary forest product was commercial timber. Urbanized countries account for a great percentage of the world's wood consumption, that increased greatly between 1950 and 1980. Simultaneously, preservation measures were reinforced to protect European and American forests. Economic growth and growing environmental protection in industrialized European countries made request for tropical hardwood become strong in West Africa. In the first half of the 1980s, an annual forest loss of 7,200 square kilometers was note down along the Gulf of Guinea, a figure equivalent to 4-5 per cent of the total remaining rain forest area. By 1985, 72 per cent of West Africa's rainforests had been transformed into fallow lands and an additional 9 per cent had been opened up by timber exploitation.\n\nTropical timber became a viable choice to European wood following World War II, as trade with East European countries stop and timber noticeably became sparse in western and southern Europe. Despite efforts to promote lesser known timber species use, the market continued to focus on part of the usable timber obtainable. West Africa was prone to selective harvesting practices; while conservationists blamed the timber industry and the farmers for felling trees, others believe rain forest destruction is connected to the problem of fuel wood. The contribution of fuel wood consumption to tree stock decline in Africa is believed to be significant. It is generally believed that firewood provides 75 per cent of the energy used in sub-Sahara Africa. With the high demand, the consumption of wood for fuel exceeds the renewal of forest cover.\n\nThe rain forests which remain in West Africa now merely are how they were hardly 30 years ago. In Guinea, Liberia and the Ivory Coast, there is almost no primary forest cover left unscathed; in Ghana the situation is much worse, and nearly all the rain forest are cut down. Guinea-Bissau loses 200 to 350 km² of forest yearly, Senegal 500 km² of wooded savanna, and Nigeria 6,000,050,000 of both. Liberia exploits 800 km² of forests each year. Extrapolating from present rates of loss, botanist Peter Raven pictures that the majority of the world's moderate and smaller rain forests (such as in Africa,) could be ruined in forty years. Tropical Africa is about 18% of the world total covering 20 million km² of land in West and Central Africa. The region has been facing deforestation in various degrees of intensity throughout the recent decades. The actual rate of deforestation varies from one country to another and accurate data does not exist yet. Recent estimates show that the annual pace of deforestation in the region can vary from 150 km² in Gabon to 2900 km² in Cote d'Ivoire. Remaining tropical forest still cover major areas in Central Africa but are abridged by patches in West Africa.\n\nThe African Timber Organization member countries (ATO) eventually recognized the cooperation between rural people and their forest environment. Customary law gives residents the right to use trees for firewood, fell trees for construction, and collect of forest products and rights for hunting or fishing and grazing or clearing of forests for maintenance agriculture. Other areas are called \"protected forests\", which means that uncontrolled clearings and unauthorized logging are forbidden. After World War II, commercial exploitation increased until no West African forestry department was able of making the law. By comparison with rain forests in other places of the world in 1973, Africa showed the greatest infringement though in total volume means, African timber production accounted just one third compared to that of Asia. The difference was due to the variety of trees in Africa forests and the demand for specific wood types in Europe.\n\nForestry regulations in east Africa were first applied by colonial governments, but they were not strict enough to fill forest exploitation. It wasn’t until the 1970s that the inadequate performance of forest regulations was recognized. The Tropical Forestry Action Plan was conceived in 1987 by the World Resources Institute in cooperation with the Food and Agriculture Organization, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the World Bank with hopes of halting tropical forest destruction. In its bid to stress forest conservation and development, the World Bank provided $111,103 million in building countries, especially in Africa, to help in developing long range forest conservation and management programs meant for ending deforestation.\n\nMany African countries are in economic and political change, overwhelmed by conflict, making various movements of forest exploitation to maintained forest management and production more and more complicated. \nForest legislation of ATO member countries aim to promote the balanced utilization of the forest domain and of wildlife and fishery in order to increase the input of the forest sector to the economic, social, cultural and scientific development of the country.\n\nThe tropical environment is rich in terms of bio-diversity. Tropical African forest is 18 per cent of the world total and covers over 3.6 million square kilometers of land in West, East and Central Africa. This total area can be subdivided to 2.69 million square kilometers (74%) in Central Africa, 680,000 square kilometers (19%) in West Africa, and 250,000 square kilometers (7%) in East Africa. In West Africa, a chain of rain forests up to 350 km long extends from the eastern border of Sierra Leone all the way to Ghana. In Ghana the forest zone gradually dispels near the Volta river, following a 300 km stretch of Dahomey savanna gap. The rain forest of West Africa continues from east of Benin through southern Nigeria and officially ends at the border of Cameroon along the Sanaga river.\n\nSemi-deciduous rainforests in West Africa began at the fringed coastline of Guinea Bissau (via Guinea) and run all the way through the coasts of Sierra Leone, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Ghana, continuing through Togo, Benin, Nigeria and Cameroon, and ending at the Congo Basin. Rain forests such as these are the richest, oldest, most prolific, and most complex systems on earth, are dying, and in turn are upsetting the delicate ecological balance. This may disturb global hydrological cycles, release vast amounts of green house gases into the atmosphere, and lessen the planet's ability to store excess carbon.\n\nThe rain forest vegetation of the Guinea-Congolian transition area, extending from Senegal to western Uganda are constituted of two main types: The semi-deciduous rain forest characterized by a large number of trees whose leaves are left during dry season. It appears in areas where the dry period (rainfall below about 100 mm) reach three months. Then, the evergreen or the semi-evergreen rain forest, climatically adapted to somewhat more humid conditions than the semi-deciduous type and is usually there in areas where the dry period is shorter than two months. This forest is usually richer in legumes and variety of species and its maximum development is around the Bight of Biafra, from Eastern Nigeria to Gabon, and with some large patches leaning to the west from Ghana to Liberia and to the east of Zaïre-Congo basin.\n\nJudging against rain forest areas in other continents, most of the African rainforest is rather dry and receives between 1600 and 2000 mm of rainfall per year. Areas receiving more rain than this mainly are in coastal areas. The circulation of rainfall throughout the year remains less than other rain forest regions in the world. The average monthly rainfall in nearly the whole region remains under 100 mm throughout the year. The variety of the African rain forest flora is also less than the other rain forests. This lack of flora has been credited to several reasons such as the gradual infertility since the Miocene, severe dry periods during Quaternary, or the refuge theory of the cool and dry climate of tropical Africa during the last severe ice age of about 18000 years ago.\n\nA recent vegetation map of Africa published by UNESCO and the main vegetation features of Central African rain forest divides the area into the following categories:\n. This type of forest shows no substantial seasonal behavior. At the border of the central basin is the mesophilous semi-deciduous forest that is mixed with deciduous and evergreen trees in the upper-stratum, unusual age distribution, continuous shrub stratum at the lower canopy, and a more marked seasonality.\n\nBeyond the forest reserves, a great deal of the remaining part of Central African rain forest on well drained soils are old secondary forests. There also exist younger secondary forests dominated by parasol trees, Musanga ceropiodes, the most abundant and characteristic secondary forest in Africa. Such trees are found in upper layers of secondary regrowth along the old road networks in Zaïre . The dispersal of secondary forests are important in regional study as they show different floristic and faunistic characteristics than primary forests, and represent centers of human activity and history of land-use changes.\n\nThe nart comprises degraded lands, irregular agriculture and plantations., and deforested lands and fragmented forests. Plantations have a geometrical lay-out with uniform canopy-cover and follow a different vegetation cycle as their adjacent features. The areas are located near the transportation networks and are subjugated by economic tree crops such as cacao, rubber, oil palms and Kola.\n\nSwamp forest, inundated forests in flood plains, and riparian forests are found here. Swamp forests are found widely in the Zaïre basin and throughout the Congo basin where conditions are appropriate. In most areas, swamp forests is like in appearance to rain forest and the tallest trees attain a height of 45 m. The main canopy is often irregular and open, sometimes resembling the secondary forests caused by disturbance The forest has a variety in endemic flora but it is inadequate in species. Recently, large areas of swamp forests have been cleared for rice farming. Swamp forests in Zaïre, Congo and other lowland forests have seasonal variations that to the level of forest inundation.\n\nIn colonial rule, governments planned only one way to promote conservation. In Nigeria for example, the government introduced forest protection regulatory measures by classification of some forest areas, licensing requirements, and the apprehension and prosecution of offenders. Ghana issued classification permits to firms and executed log export restrictions. The Ivory Coast and Cameroon introduced log supply quotas, as Liberia did.\n\nThis trade product is \"raw\" lumber. Trees native to the West African rainforest from which timber is exported include limba, emeri, obeche and opepe as well as the exotic species gmelina, teak, and pinus.\n\nThe Tropical African rainforest has rich fauna, commonly smaller mammal species rarely seen by humans. New species continually are being found. For instance, in late 1988 an unknown shrub species was discovered on the shores of the Nedian River in Western Cameroon. Since then many species have become extinct. However, undisturbed rainforests are some of the richest habitats of animal species. Today, undisturbed rainforests are remnant, but rare. Timber extraction not only changes the edifice of the forest, it affects the tree species spectrum by removing economically important species and terminates other species in the process. The species that compose African rainforests are of different evolutionary ages because of the contraction and expansion of the rainforest in response to global climatic fluctuations.:by aniketh \n\nIn Tropical Africa about 8,500 plant species have been noted and 403 species of orchids note down. The pygmy hippopotamus, the giant forest hog, the water chevortain and a number of insectivores, rodents and bats, tree frogs, bird species inhabit the area. These species, along with a diversity of fruits and insects, make a special habitat. Top canopy monkey species, the red colobus, and others, already have disappeared from much of Tropical Africa's forest.\n\nSpecies unfamiliar to the changes in forest structure for industrial use might not survive. If timber use continues and an increasing amount of farming occurs, it could lead to the mass killing of animal species. The home of nearly half of the world's animals and plant species are tropical rainforests. The rain forests provide possible economic resource for over-populated developing countries. Despite the stated need to save the West African forests, there are divergence in how to work. In April 1992, countries with some of the largest surviving tropical rain forests banned a rainforest protection plan proposed by the British government. It aimed at finding endangered species of tropical trees in order to control trade in them. Experts estimate that the rainforest of West Africa, at the present trend of deforestation, may disappear by the year 2020.\n\nAfrica’s rainforest, like many others emergent in the world, has a special significance to the indigenous cultures who have occupied them for millennia.\n\nIn early 2007, scientists created an entirely new proxy to determine annual mean air temperature on land—based on molecules from the cell membrane of soil inhabiting bacteria. Recently, Scientists from the NIOZ, Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea Research conducted a temperature record dating back to 25,000 years ago. \nIn concord with the German colleague of the University of Bremen, this detailed record shows the history of land temperatures based on the molecular fossils of soil bacteria. When applying this to the outflow core of the Congo River, the core contained eroded land material and microfossils from marine algae. That concluded that the land environment of tropical Africa was cooled more than the bordering Atlantic Ocean during the last ice-age. Since the Congo River drains a large part of tropical central Africa, the land derived material gives an integrated signal for a very large area. These findings further enlighten in natural disparities in climate and the possible costs of a warming earth on precipitation in central Africa.\n\nScientists discovered a way to measure sea temperature—based on organic molecules from algae growing off the surface layer of the Ocean. These organisms acclimatize the molecular composition of their cell membranes to ambient temperature to sustain regular physiological properties. If such molecules sink to the sea floor and are buried in sediments where oxygen does not go through, they can be preserved for thousands of years. The ratios between the different molecules from the algal cell membrane can approximate the past temperature of the sea surface. The new “proxy” used in this sediment core obtained both a continental and a sea surface temperature record. In comparison, both records shows that ocean surface and land temperatures behaved differently during the past 25,000 years. During the last ice age, African temperatures were 21 °C, about 4 °C lower than today, while the tropical Atlantic Ocean was only about 2.5 °C cooler. Lead author Johan Weijers and his colleagues arrived that the land-sea temperature difference has by far the largest influence on continental rainfall. The relation of air pressure to temperature strongly determines this factor. During the last ice age, the land climate in tropical Africa was drier than it is now, whereas it favors the growth of a lush rainforest.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "458559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=458559", "title": "Zagreb County", "text": "Zagreb County\n\nZagreb County () is a county in central Croatia. It surrounds – but does not contain – the nation's capital Zagreb, which is a separate territorial unit. For that reason, it is often nicknamed \"Zagreb ring\". According to the 2011 census, the county has 317,606 inhabitants. \n\nThe Zagreb County once included the city of Zagreb, but in 1997 they separated, when the City was given a special status. Although separated from Zagreb City County both administratively and territorially, it still remains closely linked with it.\n\nZagreb County borders on Krapina-Zagorje County, the city of Zagreb, Varaždin County, and Koprivnica-Križevci County in the north, Bjelovar-Bilogora County in the east, Sisak-Moslavina County in the south and Karlovac County in the southwest.\n\nFranjo Tuđman Airport is located on the territory of Zagreb County, the biggest and most important airport in the country.\n\nZagreb County is divided into 9 towns and 25 municipalities.\n\nCurrent Župan: Stjepan Kožić (HSS)\n\nThe county assembly is composed of 45 representatives, organized as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
