{"id": "44232002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44232002", "title": "Alpine Astrovillage Lü-Stailas", "text": "Alpine Astrovillage Lü-Stailas\n\nAlpine Astrovillage (AAV) is a center for astrophotography and stargazing in the eastern Swiss Alps, high above the valley floor of the Val Müstair in the canton Graubünden. It was founded by Drs. Vaclav & Jitka Ourednik during the International Year of Astronomy 2009. The complete name is Alpine Astrovillage Lü-Stailas (for “star light” in the Romansh language of the Canton). With its geographic location at an altitude above and an exquisite sky quality with minimal light pollution, AAV is a unique place in Central Europe for all astronomical purposes. The program includes multi-day courses in astrophotography and sky observation. In collaboration with schools, AAV offers students the possibility to accomplish, under competent guidance, the practical parts of their matura (or Bachelor) or Masters projects.\n\nAAV also organizes and supervises astrophotography trips to the darkest places on Earth, including visits to the most famous and biggest professional observatories. Meanwhile, the Center enjoys, thanks to its educative activities, great national and international popularity and respect. For years, it has been known as an \"Erlebnisperle des Kantons Graubünden\" (Destination Pearl of the canton Graubünden). With its activity, the Center contributes in an important way to the preservation of the last dark sky oases on the planet for the coming generations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57757269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57757269", "title": "Angel Families", "text": "Angel Families\n\nAngel Families is a term used by President Trump to describe relatives of victims killed by illegal immigrants. On Friday 22 June, 2018, Trump hosted an event at the White House for Angel Families during which 14 relatives held 11 photos of deceased relatives who had been killed by immigrants who were in the country illegally. Among those attending the event were Laura Wilkerson, mother of Josh; Juan Piña, father of Christy Sue Piña; Steve Ronnebeck, father of Grant; and Michelle Root, mother of Sarah.\n\n\nWhile Fox News covered the White House event with a headline \"Trump rips media for ignoring Angel Families 'permanently separated' by illegal immigrant crime\", the Associated Press (AP) pointed out that detailed studies of decades of crime data had in fact shown that people in the US illegally were less likely to commit crime than American citizens, and legal immigrants are even less likely to do so.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2615267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2615267", "title": "Anglo-Burmese people", "text": "Anglo-Burmese people\n\nThe Anglo-Burmese people, also known as the Anglo-Burmans, are a community of Eurasians of Burmese and European descent, who emerged as a distinct community through mixed relations (sometimes permanent, sometimes temporary) between the British and other European settlers and the indigenous peoples of Burma from 1826 until 1948 when Myanmar gained its independence from the United Kingdom. Those who could not adjust to the new way of life after Independence and the coming of military rule are dispersed throughout the world, with very few accurate estimates as to how many remain behind in military-ruled Burma.\n\nThe term Anglo-Burmese is also used to refer to Eurasians of European and other Burmese ethnic minority groups (e.g. Shan, Karen, Mon, Sino-Burmese) descent. It also, after 1937, included Anglo-Indian residents in Burma. Collectively, in the Burmese language, Eurasians are specifically known as \" bo kabya\"; the term \"kabya\" refers to persons of mixed ancestry or dual ethnicity.\n\nThe first Anglo-Burmese community emerged in the early 17th century as the Portuguese and Bamar people intermixed. This multicultural community was collectively known as the \"Ba-yin-gyi\". The community was established near Syriam (modern Thanlyin) on the outskirts of modern-day Yangon. The settlement was founded by Filipe de Brito e Nicote. De Brito is said to have gone mad, having declared himself king of Lower Burma and captured Natshinnaung in an attack on Syriam, causing his outpost to be destroyed and himself executed by the Burmese king Anaukpetlun in 1613. Most of his small community of European settlers and their families was banished inland to Shwebo, then known as Moksobo; they were employed as gunners by the king and their descendants settled along the Mu River. When the British Burma Army was established in 1937, it was the Anglo-Burmans who comprised the only anti-aircraft battery.\n\nAdditionally, a small band of French soldiers captured in the late 18th century by Alaungpaya, founder of the Konbaung Dynasty, was provided with Bamar wives and established a new Eurasian community that is classified as Anglo-Burman. They were employed as elite gunners under Pierre de Milard. During the Mon-Bamar conflict in the 18th century, Sieur de Bruno was acting as a military advisor to the Mons and French warships participated in fighting against the Burmese in Syriam and Dagon (ancient Yangon). Alaungpaya managed to capture Syriam in July 1756. Sieur de Bruno and the other French with him were captured and tortured. Two French ships arriving two days after the capture of Syriam, \"Fleury\" and \"Galathée\", with reinforcements and supplies were also captured by Alaungpaya when he forced Bruno to write a letter to trick them. The French captains were killed, Sieur de Bruno was roasted to death, and the 200 sailors were forced to join the Konbaung army.\n\nFrom his two ships, Alaugpaya managed to put his hands on 35 24-pounder long guns, five field guns, 1300 muskets and a large quantity of ammunitions. The French troops with their guns and muskets were incorporated in the Konbaung army as gunners and played a key role in the later battles between the Burmese and the Mons. They were treated well and received Burmese wives. They became an elite corps, which was to play an important role in the Burmese battles against Thailand and Qing China. One of them, Pierre de Milard, was ultimately nominated Captain of the Guard and Master of the Ordnance for the Konbaung Dynasty. When they reached old age, these French soldiers were able to retire to Shwebo villages with the spiritual support of a priest of the Catholic Church. To this day, some Catholic villages are still extant in the area where an awareness of some European ancestry remains.\n\nThe first war with the British formally ended in 1826 with the Treaty of Yandabo, with the coastal provinces of Arakan and Tanintharyi (\"Tenasserim\") being annexed to British rule and Mawlamyine (\"Moulmein\") established as the Brititsh colonial capital. In 1852, the second Second Anglo-Burmese War concluded with the annexation of the Bago Region to what became known as Lower or \"British\" Burma.\n\nThe Third Anglo-Burmese War began in 1886 after a number of social and legal issues combined with the revelation of a commercial trade agreement King Thibaw Min had made with the French Third Republic. The British, fearing the French were going to annex Upper Burma as a French colonial province, responded by annexing the remainder of Burma. King Thibaw and most of his relatives of importance were exiled to India and Burma was made a province of British India.\n\nBritish settlers now began to settle in large numbers in Burma, intermixing with the Bamar and other local ethnic groups, and the Eurasian community grew larger, some say larger than the Anglo-Indian community in India. Frequently, European men took Burmese women as \"temporary\" wives, often deserting them and their offspring after their tours of duty ended in Burma, not dissimilar to the Spanish and French practice of plaçage, but legal marriages did take place. Frequently, when a \"temporary\" relationship ended, the European father left behind a sum of money for the upkeep of their children. Sometimes the children were removed from their mothers and placed into convent schools run by Europeans, where their Burmese heritage was often undermined. The issue of mixed marriages, particularly between Bamar women and British males, was to become a major issue in the independence movement as it further developed.\n\nAnglo-Burmans represent a very diverse heritage, their Asian heritage primarily Bamar, but also Karen, Shan and Mon as well as other smaller Burmese ethnic groups like the Kuki, Jingpo and Rakhine.\n\nThe European element included, aside from the English, other European influence, chiefly Greeks, the Dutch, Scandinavians, Irish (who left their country due to the Great Famine), Germans, Austrians, the French, the Portuguese, Italians and other non-European Russians. Armenians, Syrian, Egyptians and the Anglo-Indian were also represented among Anglo-Burmans.\n\nOne unusual addition to the mix was Baghdadi Jews. By the 1920s, the Anglo-Burman community was a distinct ethnic group in Burma.\n\nIn 1935, colonial Burma was plagued with riots due to the country having been swallowed into British India. In response, in 1937, as Burma separated officially from British India and formed a separate crown colony, Anglo-Burmans were officially recognised as an ethnic group under the Government of Burma Act. Having European blood, Anglo-Burmans were a privileged class and became one of the dominant ethnic groups in Burmese life. They began assimilating to European customs, in particular British. Most Anglo-Burmans (unlike Anglo-Indians and the Burgher people in Sri Lanka) were able to trace at least a grandparent, if not a parent, originating from outside of Burma's borders. As such, the connection with the West was strong, and many Anglo-Burmans did not settle down as a truly indigenous ethnic group. Of course, some Anglo-Burmans did, and most of the community felt Burma was their own country, with no wish to \"repatriate\" to their European homeland. In fact, after Independence, the Anglo-Burman Union carried out research among the community to gauge the feeling of its people with regard to nationality. It was discovered that around 60% intended to remain in Burma and take Burmese citizenship with the remaining 40% split between staying in Burma or leaving for Australia or the UK.\n\nAlong with the British settlers, Anglo-Indians came into Burma during colonial times to work on the railways and customs departments; intermarriage between the groups (Anglo-Indian and Anglo-Burmese) was frequent, especially in Yangon (\"Rangoon\") as both communities were innately drawn to one another. Community clubs were a mainstay of life during British rule, with most attending what was commonly called the \"Anglo-Indian/Domiciled European Club\".\n\nBetween 1935 and 1948, Burma quickly became the jewel of the East, with a flourishing economy based on agricultural produce (primarily rice, oil, timber, gems and other natural resources). At this time, Rangoon was said to be the most cosmopolitan city east of the Suez Canal; the city and its environs were estimated to hold at least 50% of the Anglo-Burmese community. During British rule, Yangon and Maymyo (modern Pyin Oo Lwin) became principal population centres for the Anglo-Burmese, although substantial communities existed in the Irrawaddy River delta towns as well as in Mandalay, Mawlamyine, Amherst (now Kyaikkami), Taunggyi, Kalaw, Taungoo, Pyinmana, Meiktila, Yenangyaung and the mining towns of the Shan States.\n\nAlthough prejudice existed among both colonial settlers and local populations, the Anglo-Burmese were not held in the same contempt as the Anglo-Indians were in India, despite their similar origins and heritage. This was reflected in the Burmese derogatory term \"bo kyet chee kala\" (\"shit-colored Indians who think they are British\") to refer to Anglo-Indians, in contrast to \"bo kabya\" which referred to Anglo-Burmans. Many Anglo-Indians in Burma never learnt to speak Burmese and managed to get by with Hindustani, which tended to alienate the locals. As far as the Burmese community was concerned, those willing to intermingle or blend in were as readily accepted as any kabya in the days of the Burmese kings, but those who looked down on the Burmese themselves were held in mutual contempt.\n\nIn 1942, the Japanese invaded East and Southeast Asia, including Burma, in hopes of creating an Empire for itself throughout Asia. Because of their European connections and appearance and fearful of Japanese rule, most Anglo-Burmans began making frantic preparations to leave the country for safety in India alongside the British. A vast majority of Anglo-Burmans made their way out of Burma by their own means, some by sea and others by air. Many were employed by government departments or were married to government employees and were able to flee on official evacuation convoys. Others stayed at their posts and ran the telegraphs and phone operations, railways and other infrastructure systems until it was too late to escape. Sadly, of those who were left behind, many opted to walk through the jungles to safety in India. This exodus has become historically known as \"The Trek\", and many Anglo-Burmans alongside Europeans, Indians and Chinese died en route. Those who remained behind suffered horrendously.\n\nMany Anglo-Burmese during colonial times were concentrated in and around the town of Maymyo. As the Japanese took control of the country, they found many there and simply incarcerated them in concentration camps for fear of their loyalty to the British. However, Anglo-Burmese who resembled Bamar were incognito and managed to pass, acting like the Burmans. Indeed, many Bamar sheltered their Eurasian friends and relatives from the Japanese and after the war. Many Anglo-Burmans were not to forget this, refusing to take back their European names and dress, appreciative of the security and protection offered to them, and disgraced with the manner in which the British handled the evacuation of the country and the abandonment of the community. Others less fortunate during the war were interned in prison camps whilst others, particularly the Anglo-Burman women, were taken as servants and mistresses by the Japanese army, most often unwillingly. In 1944, Burma's colonial government met in exile at Simla, India. Among those who attended were the governor of Burma, Sir Reginald Dorman Smith, along with Anglo-Burman leaders (including James Barrington who was to become the first ambassador for post-independence Burma to the U.S.A. and Canada), to discuss the future of Burma after the war and the status of the Anglo-Burmese community. After Japan was defeated, most Anglo-Burmans who had fled to India returned to Burma.\n\nSir Reginald Dorman-Smith, governor of Burma in exile, met Anglo-Burmese leaders in Simla in 1944, where the government of Burma in exile was stationed during the war, to discuss the future of the Anglo-Burmese community after the war.\n\nThe Anglo-Burmese delegates were:\n\nOne of the results of the conference was the giving of an assurance to the Anglo-Burmese community that they would be allowed to preserve their freedom of worship and allowed to teach their own religion, freedom to continue their own customs and maintain their own language of English. In the Constituent Assembly of 1947, Anglo-Burmans were to receive four assigned seats in the new parliament of independent Burma.\n\nOn 4 January 1948, the Union of Burma declared its independence from Great Britain, immediately leaving the Commonwealth and severing all ties with the British Empire. The British left protection clauses in the Constitution and the legislative makeup of independent Burma to take account of the Anglo-Burman people including, most importantly, reserved seats in the parliament of the newly established Union of Burma and a disproportionate number of Anglo-Burmans running the bureaucracy of day-to-day government and military operations. Aung San addressed the Anglo-Burman Union to press the issue of acceptance and the fears the community had for their presence in independent Burma. His assurances went to help with the decision by most of the community to remain in Burma after British withdrawal.\n\nHowever, Aung San and his entire cabinet were assassinated before Independence. This sent a ripple effect through the country and among all ethnic minority groups, who Aung San had personally addressed to reassure them of their place in the new country. In February 1948, ethnic rebellions immediately erupted throughout Burma, with the Kayin taking most of the central part of the country, including Mandalay. For a time, it was feared that Rangoon would fall to the rebels. Due to the insurrection and erupting civil war, there immediately followed, however, a stream of Anglo-Burmans leaving the country, who were fearful of what awaited them and the country since the end of British rule. At this time, about 30% of the population of Rangoon were reckoned as Anglo-Burmese. This proportion was to decline steadily through to the late 1960s.\n\nFollowing the British withdrawal in 1948, some Anglo-Burmans left Burma, primarily for the United Kingdom. Many more remained behind in Burma and carried on with their lives. Through the 1950s, the situation steadily declined in the country, with armed insurrections and rebellions, principally among the Kayin people. Due to the perceived suffering the Bamar had encountered under British rule, affirmative action of sorts was introduced by the government of U Nu in the 1950s, primarily due to the disproportionate control the Anglo-Burmans had in government departments and the running of the country. Many Anglo-Burmans began to lose their jobs, to be replaced with pure Burmans as the bureaucracy of the country became increasingly Burmanized. Additional measures relating to the Burmese language were introduced so that to take the matriculation exam to enter Rangoon University, prospective students were required to be fluent in written Burmese (which many Anglo-Burmans had not been taught), even though all books and most teaching were still carried out in English.\n\nIn 1962 General Ne Win overthrew U Nu's government and established strict military rule. It soon became apparent that this new military government had other plans as a socialist, xenophobic and isolationist regime was born. Many more Anglo-Burmans left due to discriminatory measures taken against minority groups, particularly those the military deemed as vestiges of colonial rule, specifically the Anglo-Burmese and the Karen. Anglo-Burmans already in the Armed Forces were dismissed and those who wanted to join were now barred. There were mass dismissals of Anglo-Burmans from the Civil Service in departments where they had previously dominated such as the Railways, the Union of Burma Airways, Customs Department, Division of Forestry and Mining and the Ministry of Posts and Telegraphs.\n\nAll schools were nationalised, the principal target being missionary schools, and English was no longer taught from kindergarten level. Standards began to fall in the education system and the previously highly esteemed University of Rangoon was closed for some time, after which the Rangoon University Student Union (RUSU), hotbed of the nationalist movement during the 1930s and 1940s, was blown up by the military. Once the university reopened its doors, English as the principal medium of instruction was abolished and foreign institutions no longer accepted degrees obtained from the university.\n\nThe Anglo-Burman Social Club in Rangoon was subsequently requisitioned by the military and turned into an officer’s mess and the Anglo-Burman Union was banned. During this time, many Anglo-Burmans left for Australia and New Zealand, with small numbers emigrating to Canada and the U.S.A.\n\nToday, some people identifying themselves as Anglo-Burmans are believed to remain in Burma. Because of the similar heritage and roles played, and because Burma was part of the British Empire as part of India after British colonizations, Anglo-Burmans were once counted as Anglo-Indians; today, Anglo-Indians accept Anglo-Burmese as their \"kith and kin\". World reunions of Anglo-Indians usually include many who would be classed more correctly as Anglo-Burmese, to reflect their Burmese blood.\n\nThe most famous Anglo-Burmans today are to be found outside of Burma's borders such as the Bollywood actress Helen, the late British television actor Richard Beckinsale, his daughters the actresses Kate Beckinsale and Samantha Beckinsale, British writer and journalist Sue Arnold, Japanese-British music critic Peter Barakan (), the British TV personality Melanie Sykes, the jazz musician Jamie Cullum and his brother Ben Cullum and the singer Annabella Lwin. \nThe alternative musician Get Cape. Wear Cape. Fly (né Sam Duckworth) is also Anglo-Burmese. The sons of Aung San Suu Kyi and Michael Aris, Alexander and Kim, are technically Anglo-Burmese, despite not stemming from the colonial era. There is also Zuleikha Robinson, a British actress raised in Thailand and Malaysia by a Burmese-Indian mother and an English father. American television host and liberal commentator Alex Wagner, who was born to a Burmese mother and a father of German and Irish descent, can be called Anglo-Burmese by basis of heritage.\nBurmese writer Wendy Law-Yone and her daughter Jocelyn Seagrave, who is a U.S. actress, are also Anglo-Burmese.\n\nHowever, there are also Anglo-Burmans still living in Burma. They include famous singer and actress Rita Fairmen (Myint Myint Khin), and famous singers Marie Conway (Tin Moe Khaing) and Joyce Win (Nwe Yin Win).\n\nAnglo-Burmans were enrolled in missionary-run schools where English was the medium of instruction with Burmese as a second language. For some Anglo-Burmans who married full blooded Burmese, their children, whilst still being counted as Anglo-Burmans, were usually more openly exposed to the indigenous culture and spoke and used the Burmese language more frequently than their more \"Anglo\" counterparts. Notable schools include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48991", "title": "Arts and Crafts movement", "text": "Arts and Crafts movement\n\nThe Arts and Crafts movement was an international movement in the decorative and fine arts that began in Britain and flourished in Europe and North America between about 1880 and 1920, emerging in Japan (the Mingei movement) in the 1920s. It stood for traditional craftsmanship using simple forms, and often used medieval, romantic, or folk styles of decoration. It advocated economic and social reform and was essentially anti-industrial. It had a strong influence on the arts in Europe until it was displaced by Modernism in the 1930s, and its influence continued among craft makers, designers, and town planners long afterwards.\n\nThe term was first used by T. J. Cobden-Sanderson at a meeting of the Arts and Crafts Exhibition Society in 1887, although the principles and style on which it was based had been developing in England for at least twenty years. It was inspired by the ideas of architect Augustus Pugin, writer John Ruskin, and designer William Morris.\n\nThe movement developed earliest and most fully in the British Isles, and spread across the British Empire and to the rest of Europe and North America. It was largely a reaction against the perceived impoverished state of the decorative arts at the time and the conditions in which they were produced.\n\nThe Arts and Crafts movement emerged from the attempt to reform design and decoration in mid 19th century Britain. It was a reaction against a perceived decline in standards that the reformers associated with machinery and factory production. Their critique was sharpened by the items they saw in the Great Exhibition of 1851, which they considered to be excessively ornate, artificial and ignorant of the qualities of the materials used.\nThe art historian Nikolaus Pevsner has said that exhibits in the Great Exhibition showed \"ignorance of that basic need in creating patterns, the integrity of the surface\" and \"vulgarity in detail\". Design reform began with the organisers of the Exhibition itself, Henry Cole (1808–1882), Owen Jones (1809–1874), Matthew Digby Wyatt (1820–1877) and Richard Redgrave (1804–1888), who deprecated excessive ornament and impractical and badly made things. The organisers were \"unanimous in their condemnation of the exhibits.\" Owen Jones, for example, complained that \"the architect, the upholsterer, the paper-stainer, the weaver, the calico-printer, and the potter\" produce \"in art novelty without beauty, or beauty without intelligence.\" From these criticisms of the contemporary state of manufactured goods emerged several publications which set out what the writers considered to be the correct principles of design. Richard Redgrave's \"Supplementary Report on Design\" (1852) analysed the principles of design and ornament and pleaded for \"more logic in the application of decoration.\" Other works followed in a similar vein: Wyatt's \"Industrial Arts of the Nineteenth Century\" (1853), Gottfried Semper's \"Wissenschaft, Industrie und Kunst\" (\"Science, Industry and Art\") (1852), Ralph Wornum's \"Analysis of Ornament\" (1856), Redgrave's \"Manual of Design\" (1876) and Jones's \"Grammar of Ornament\" (1856). The \"Grammar of Ornament\" was particularly influential, liberally distributed as a student prize and running into nine reprints by 1910.\n\nJones declared that \"Ornament ... must be secondary to the thing decorated\", that there must be \"fitness in the ornament to the thing ornamented\", and that wallpapers and carpets must not have any patterns \"suggestive of anything but a level or plain\". Where a fabric or wallpaper in the Great Exhibition might be decorated with a natural motif made to look as real as possible, these writers advocated flat and simplified natural motifs. Redgrave insisted that \"style\" demanded sound construction before ornamentation, and a proper awareness of the quality of materials used. \"\"Utility\" must have precedence over ornamentation.\"\n\nHowever, the design reformers of the mid 19th century did not go as far as the designers of the Arts and Crafts Movement: they were more concerned with ornamentation than construction, they had an incomplete understanding of methods of manufacture, and they did not criticise industrial methods as such. By contrast, the Arts and Crafts movement was as much a movement of social reform as design reform and its leading practitioners did not separate the two.\n\nSome of the ideas of the movement were anticipated by A.W.N. Pugin (1812–1852), a leader in the Gothic revival in architecture. For example, he, like the Arts and Crafts artists, advocated truth to material, structure and function. Pugin articulated the tendency of social critics to compare the faults of modern society (such as the sprawling growth of cities and the treatment of the poor) unfavorably with the Middle Ages, a tendency that became routine with Ruskin, Morris and the Arts and Crafts movement. His book \"Contrasts\" (1836) drew examples of bad modern buildings and town planning in contrast with good medieval examples, and his biographer Rosemary Hill notes that in it he \"reached conclusions, almost in passing, about the importance of craftsmaship and tradition in architecture that it would take the rest of the century and the combined efforts of Ruskin and Morris to work out in detail.\" She describes the spare furnishings he specified for a building in 1841—\"rush chairs, oak tables\"—as \"the Arts and Crafts interior in embryo.\"\n\nThe Arts and Crafts philosophy derived in large measure from John Ruskin's social criticism, which related the moral and social health of a nation to the qualities of its architecture and to the nature of work. Ruskin (1819–1900) considered the sort of mechanized production and division of labour that had been created in the industrial revolution to be \"servile labour\" and he thought that a healthy and moral society required independent workers who designed the things they made. His followers favoured craft production over industrial manufacture and were concerned about the loss of traditional skills, but they were arguably more troubled by the effects of the factory system than by machinery itself and William Morris's idea of \"handicraft\" was essentially work without any division of labour rather than work without any sort of machinery.\n\nWilliam Morris (1834–1896), the towering figure in late 19th century design, was the main influence on the Arts and Crafts movement. The aesthetic and social vision of the Arts and Crafts movement derived from ideas he developed in the 1850s with a group of students at the University of Oxford, who combined a love of Romantic literature with a commitment to social reform. By 1855 they had discovered Ruskin and, believing there to be a contrast between the barbarity of contemporary art and the painters preceding Raphael (1483-1530), they formed themselves into the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood to pursue their artistic aims. The medievalism of Mallory's \"Morte d'Arthur\" set the standard for their early style. In Edward Burne-Jones' words, they intended to \"wage Holy warfare against the age\".\n\nMorris began experimenting with various crafts and designing furniture and interiors. He was personally involved in manufacture as well as design, which was to be the hallmark of the Arts and Crafts movement. Ruskin had argued that the separation of the intellectual act of design from the manual act of physical creation was both socially and aesthetically damaging; Morris further developed this idea, insisting that no work should be carried out in his workshops before he had personally mastered the appropriate techniques and materials, arguing that \"without dignified, creative human occupation people became disconnected from life\".\n\nIn 1861 Morris began making furniture and decorative objects commercially, modeling his designs on medieval styles and using bold forms and strong colors. His patterns were based on flora and fauna and his products were inspired by the vernacular or domestic traditions of the British countryside. In order to display the beauty of the materials and the work of the craftsman, some were deliberately left unfinished, creating a rustic appearance. Truth to materials, structure and function became characteristic of the Arts and Crafts movement.\n\nWilliam Morris shared Ruskin's critique of industrial society and at one time or another attacked the modern factory, the use of machinery, the division of labour, capitalism and the loss of traditional craft methods. But his attitude to machinery was inconsistent. He said at one point that production by machinery was \"altogether an evil\", but at others he was willing to commission work from manufacturers who were able to meet his standards with the aid of machines; and he said that, in a \"true society\", where neither luxuries nor cheap trash were made, machinery could be improved and used to reduce the hours of labour. Fiona MacCarthy says that \"unlike later zealots like Gandhi, William Morris had no practical objections to the use of machinery \"per se\" so long as the machines produced the quality he needed.\"\n\nMorris insisted that the artist should be a craftsman-designer working by hand and advocated a society of free craftspeople, such as he believed had existed during the Middle Ages. \"Because craftsmen took pleasure in their work\", he wrote, \"the Middle Ages was a period of greatness the art of the common people. ... The treasures in our museums now are only the common utensils used in households of that age, when hundreds of medieval churches—each one a masterpiece—were built by unsophisticated peasants.\" Medieval art was the model for much Arts and Crafts design and medieval life, literature and building was idealised by the movement.\n\nMorris's followers also had differing views about machinery and the factory system. C. R. Ashbee, for example, a central figure in the Arts and Crafts Movement, said in 1888, that, \"We do not reject the machine, we welcome it. But we would desire to see it mastered.\" After unsuccessfully pitting his Guild and School of Handicraft guild against modern methods of manufacture, he acknowledged that \"Modern civilization rests on machinery\", but he continued to criticize the deleterious effects of what he called \"mechanism\", saying that \"the production of certain mechanical commodities is as bad for the national health as is the production of slave-grown cane or child-sweated wares.\" William Arthur Smith Benson, on the other hand, had no qualms about adapting the Arts and Crafts style to metalwork produced under industrial conditions. (See quotation box.)\n\nMorris and his followers believed the division of labour on which modern industry depended was undesirable, but the extent to which every design should be carried out by the designer was a matter for debate and disagreement. Not all Arts and Crafts artists carried out every stage in the making of goods themselves, and it was only in the twentieth century that that became essential to the definition of craftsmanship. Although Morris was famous for getting hands-on experience himself of many crafts (including weaving, dying, printing, calligraphy and embroidery), he did not regard the separation of designer and executant in his factory as problematic. Walter Crane, a close political associate of Morris's, took an unsympathetic view of the division of labour on both moral and artistic grounds, and strongly advocated that designing and making should come from the same hand. Lewis Foreman Day, a friend and contemporary of Crane's, as unstinting as Crane in his admiration of Morris, disagreed strongly with Crane. He thought that the separation of design and execution was not only inevitable in the modern world, but also that only that sort of specialisation allowed the best in design and the best in making. Few of the founders of the Arts and Crafts Exhibition Society insisted that the designer should also be the maker. Peter Floud, writing in the 1950s, said that \"The founders of the Society ... never executed their own designs, but invariably turned them over to commercial firms.\" The idea that the designer should be the maker and the maker the designer derived \"not from Morris or early Arts and Crafts teaching, but rather from the second-generation elaboration doctrine worked out in the first decade of [the twentieth] century by men such as W. R. Lethaby\".\n\nMany of the Arts and Crafts Movement designers were socialists, including Morris, T. J. Cobden Sanderson, Walter Crane, C.R.Ashbee, Philip Webb, Charles Faulkner and A.H.Mackmurdo. In the early 1880s Morris was spending more of his time on socialist propaganda than on designing and making. Ashbee established a community of craftsmen, the Guild of Handicraft, in east London, later moving to Chipping Campden. Those adherents who were not socialists, for example, Alfred Hoare Powell, advocated a more humane and personal relationship between employer and employee. Lewis Foreman Day, a very successful and influential Arts and Crafts designer, was not a socialist either, despite his long friendship with Crane.\n\nIn Britain the movement was associated with dress reform, ruralism, the garden city movement and the folk-song revival. All were linked, in some degree, by the ideal of \"the Simple Life\". In continental Europe the movement was associated with the preservation of national traditions in building, the applied arts, domestic design and costume.\n\nMorris's designs quickly became popular, attracting interest when his company's work was exhibited at the 1862 International Exhibition in London. Much of Morris & Co's early work was for churches and Morris won important interior design commissions at St James's Palace and the South Kensington Museum (now the Victoria and Albert Museum). Later his work became popular with the middle and upper classes, despite his wish to create a democratic art, and by the end of the 19th century, Arts and Crafts design in houses and domestic interiors was the dominant style in Britain, copied in products made by conventional industrial methods.\n\nThe spread of Arts and Crafts ideas during the late 19th and early 20th centuries resulted in the establishment of many associations and craft communities, although Morris had little to do with them because of his preoccupation with socialism at the time. A hundred and thirty Arts and Crafts organisations were formed in Britain, most between 1895 and 1905.\n\nIn 1881, Eglantyne Louisa Jebb, Mary Fraser Tytler and others initiated the Home Arts and Industries Association to encourage the working classes, especially those in rural areas, to take up handicrafts under supervision, not for profit, but in order to provide them with useful occupations and to improve their taste. By 1889 it had 450 classes, 1,000 teachers and 5,000 students.\n\nIn 1882, architect A.H.Mackmurdo formed the Century Guild, a partnership of designers including Selwyn Image, Herbert Horne, Clement Heaton and Benjamin Creswick.\n\nIn 1884, the Art Workers Guild was initiated by five young architects, William Lethaby, Edward Prior, Ernest Newton, Mervyn Macartney and Gerald C. Horsley, with the goal of bringing together fine and applied arts and raising the status of the latter. It was directed originally by George Blackall Simonds. By 1890 the Guild had 150 members, representing the increasing number of practitioners of the Arts and Crafts style. It still exists.\n\nThe London department store Liberty & Co., founded in 1875, was a prominent retailer of goods in the style and of the \"artistic dress\" favoured by followers of the Arts and Crafts movement.\n\nIn 1887 the Arts and Crafts Exhibition Society, which gave its name to the movement, was formed with Walter Crane as president, holding its first exhibition in the New Gallery, London, in November 1888. It was the first show of contemporary decorative arts in London since the Grosvenor Gallery's Winter Exhibition of 1881. Morris & Co. was well represented in the exhibition with furniture, fabrics, carpets and embroideries. Edward Burne-Jones observed, \"here for the first time one can measure a bit the change that has happened in the last twenty years\". The society still exists as the Society of Designer Craftsmen.\n\nIn 1888, C.R.Ashbee, a major late practitioner of the style in England, founded the Guild and School of Handicraft in the East End of London. The guild was a craft co-operative modelled on the medieval guilds and intended to give working men satisfaction in their craftsmanship. Skilled craftsmen, working on the principles of Ruskin and Morris, were to produce hand-crafted goods and manage a school for apprentices. The idea was greeted with enthusiasm by almost everyone except Morris, who was by now involved with promoting socialism and thought Ashbee's scheme trivial. From 1888 to 1902 the guild prospered, employing about 50 men. In 1902 Ashbee relocated the guild out of London to begin an experimental community in Chipping Campden in the Cotswolds. The guild's work is characterized by plain surfaces of hammered silver, flowing wirework and colored stones in simple settings. Ashbee designed jewellery and silver tableware. The guild flourished at Chipping Camden but did not prosper and was liquidated in 1908. Some craftsmen stayed, contributing to the tradition of modern craftsmanship in the area.\n\nC.F.A. Voysey (1857–1941) was an Arts and Crafts architect who also designed fabrics, tiles, ceramics, furniture and metalwork. His style combined simplicity with sophistication. His wallpapers and textiles, featuring stylised bird and plant forms in bold outlines with flat colors, were used widely.\n\nMorris's thought influenced the distributism of G. K. Chesterton and Hilaire Belloc.\n\nBy the end of the nineteenth century, Arts and Crafts ideals had influenced architecture, painting, sculpture, graphics, illustration, book making and photography, domestic design and the decorative arts, including furniture and woodwork, stained glass, leatherwork, lacemaking, embroidery, rug making and weaving, jewelry and metalwork, enameling and ceramics. By 1910, there was a fashion for \"Arts and Crafts\" and all things hand-made. There was a proliferation of amateur handicrafts of variable quality and of incompetent imitators who caused the public to regard Arts and Crafts as \"something less, instead of more, competent and fit for purpose than an ordinary mass produced article.\"\n\nThe Arts and Crafts Exhibition Society held eleven exhibitions between 1888 and 1916. By the outbreak of war in 1914 it was in decline and faced a crisis. Its 1912 exhibition had been a financial failure. While designers in continental Europe were making innovations in design and alliances with industry through initiatives such as the Deutsche Werkbund and new initiatives were being taken in Britain by the Omega Workshops and the Design in Industries Association, the Arts and Crafts Exhibition Society, now under the control of an old guard, was withdrawing from commerce and collaboration with manufacturers into purist handwork and what Tania Harrod describes as \"decommoditisation\" Its rejection of a commercial role has been seen as a turning point in its fortunes. Nikolaus Pevsner in his book \"Pioneers of Modern Design\" presents the Arts and Crafts Movement as design radicals who influenced the modern movement, but failed to change and were eventually superseded by it.\n\nThe British artist potter Bernard Leach brought to England many ideas he had developed in Japan with the social critic Yanagi Soetsu about the moral and social value of simple crafts; both were enthusiastic readers of Ruskin. Leach was an active propagandist for these ideas, which struck a chord with practitioners of the crafts in the inter-war years, and he expounded them in \"A Potter's Book\", published in 1940, which denounced industrial society in terms as vehement as those of Ruskin and Morris. Thus the Arts and Crafts philosophy was perpetuated among British craft workers in the 1950s and 1960s, long after the demise of the Arts and Crafts movement and at the high tide of Modernism. British Utility furniture of the 1940s also derived from Arts and Crafts principles. One of its main promoters, Gordon Russell, chairman of the Utility Furniture Design Panel, was imbued with Arts and Crafts ideas. He manufactured furniture in the Cotswold Hills, a region of Arts and Crafts furniture-making since Ashbee, and he was a member of the Arts and Crafts Exhibition Society. William Morris's biographer, Fiona MacCarthy, detected the Arts and Crafts philosophy even behind the Festival of Britain (1951), the work of the designer Terence Conran (b. 1931) and the founding of the British Crafts Council in the 1970s.\n\nThe movement spread to Ireland, representing an important time for the nation's cultural development, a visual counterpart to the literary revival of the same time and was a publication of Irish nationalism. The Arts and Crafts use of stained glass was popular in Ireland, with Harry Clarke the best-known artist and also with Evie Hone. The architecture of the style is represented by the Honan Chapel (1916) in Cork in the grounds of University College Cork. Other architects practicing in Ireland included Sir Edwin Lutyens (Heywood House in Co. Laois, Lambay Island and the Irish National War Memorial Gardens in Dublin) and Frederick 'Pa' Hicks (Malahide Castle estate buildings and round tower). Irish Celtic motifs were popular with the movement in silvercraft, carpet design, book illustrations and hand-carved furniture.\n\nThe beginnings of the Arts and Crafts movement in Scotland were in the stained glass revival of the 1850s, pioneered by James Ballantine (1808–77). His major works included the great west window of Dunfermline Abbey and the scheme for St. Giles Cathedral, Edinburgh. In Glasgow it was pioneered by Daniel Cottier (1838–91), who had probably studied with Ballantine, and was directly influenced by William Morris, Ford Madox Brown and John Ruskin. His key works included the \"Baptism of Christ\" in Paisley Abbey, (c. 1880). His followers included Stephen Adam and his son of the same name. The Glasgow-born designer and theorist Christopher Dresser (1834–1904) was one of the first, and most important, independent designers, a pivotal figure in the Aesthetic Movement and a major contributor to the allied Anglo-Japanese movement. The movement had an \"extraordinary flowering\" in Scotland where it was represented by the development of the 'Glasgow Style' which was based on the talent of the Glasgow School of Art. Celtic revival took hold here, and motifs such as the Glasgow rose became popularised. Charles Rennie Mackintosh and the Glasgow School of Art were to influence others worldwide.\n\nIn continental Europe, the revival and preservation of national styles was an important motive of Arts and Crafts designers; for example, in Germany, after unification in 1871 under the encouragement of the \"Bund für Heimatschutz\" (1897) and the \"Vereinigte Werkstätten für Kunst im Handwerk\" founded in 1898 by Karl Schmidt; and in Hungary Károly Kós revived the vernacular style of Transylvanian building. In central Europe, where several diverse nationalities lived under powerful empires (Germany, Austria-Hungary and Russia), the discovery of the vernacular was associated with the assertion of national pride and the striving for independence, and, whereas for Arts and Crafts practitioners in Britain the ideal style was to be found in the medieval, in central Europe it was sought in remote peasant villages.\nWidely exhibited in Europe, the Arts and Crafts style's simplicity inspired designers like Henry van de Velde and styles such as Art Nouveau, the Dutch De Stijl group, Vienna Secession, and eventually the Bauhaus style. Pevsner regarded the style as a prelude to Modernism, which used simple forms without ornamentation.\n\nThe earliest Arts and Crafts activity in continental Europe was in Belgium in about 1890, where the English style inspired artists and architects including can de Velde, Gabriel Van Dievoet, Gustave Serrurier-Bovy and a group known as \"La Libre Esthétique\" (Free Aesthetic).\n\nArts and Crafts products were admired in Austria and Germany in the early 20th century, and under their inspiration design moved rapidly forward while it stagnated in Britain. The Wiener Werkstätte, founded in 1903 by Josef Hoffmann and Koloman Moser, was influenced by the Arts and Crafts principles of the \"unity of the arts\" and the hand-made. The Deutscher Werkbund (German Association of Craftsmen) was formed in 1907 as an association of artists, architects, designers, and industrialists to improve the global competitiveness of German businesses and became an important element in the development of modern architecture and industrial design through its advocacy of standardized production. However, its leading members, van de Velde and Hermann Muthesius, had conflicting opinions about standardization. Muthesius believed that it was essential were Germany to become a leading nation in trade and culture. Van de Velde, representing a more traditional Arts and Crafts attitude, believed that artists would forever \"protest against the imposition of orders or standardization,\" and that \"The artist ... will never, of his own accord, submit to a discipline which imposes on him a canon or a type.\" \n\nIn Finland, an idealistic artists' colony in Helsinki was designed by Herman Gesellius, Armas Lindgren and Eliel Saarinen, who worked in the National Romantic style, akin to the British Gothic Revival.\n\nIn Hungary, under the influence of Ruskin and Morris, a group of artists and architects, including Károly Kós, Aladár Körösfői-Kriesch and Ede Toroczkai Wigand, discovered the folk art and vernacular architecture of Transylvania. Many of Kós's buildings, including those in the Budapest zoo and the Wekerle estate in the same city, show this influence.\n\nIn Russia, Viktor Hartmann, Viktor Vasnetsov, Yelena Polenova and other artists associated with Abramtsevo Colony sought to revive the quality of medieval Russian decorative arts quite independently from the movement in Great Britain.\n\nIn Iceland, Sölvi Helgason's work shows Arts and Crafts influence.\n\nIn the United States, the Arts and Crafts style initiated a variety of attempts to reinterpret European Arts and Crafts ideals for Americans. These included the \"Craftsman\"-style architecture, furniture, and other decorative arts such as designs promoted by Gustav Stickley in his magazine, \"The Craftsman\" and designs produced on the Roycroft campus as publicized in Elbert Hubbard's \"The Fra\". Both men used their magazines as a vehicle to promote the goods produced with the Craftsman workshop in Eastwood, NY and Elbert Hubbard's Roycroft campus in East Aurora, NY. A host of imitators of Stickley's furniture (the designs of which are often mislabelled the \"Mission Style\") included three companies established by his brothers.\n\nThe terms \"American Craftsman\" or \"Craftsman style\" are often used to denote the style of architecture, interior design, and decorative arts that prevailed between the dominant eras of Art Nouveau and Art Deco in the USA, or approximately the period from 1910 to 1925. The movement was particularly notable for the professional opportunities it opened up for women as artisans, designers and entrepreneurs who founded and ran, or were employed by, such successful enterprises as the Kalo Shops, Rookwood Pottery, and Tiffany Studios. In Canada, the term \"Arts and Crafts\" predominates, but \"Craftsman\" is also recognized.\n\nWhile the Europeans tried to recreate the virtuous crafts being replaced by industrialisation, Americans tried to establish a new type of virtue to replace heroic craft production: well-decorated middle-class homes. They claimed that the simple but refined aesthetics of Arts and Crafts decorative arts would ennoble the new experience of industrial consumerism, making individuals more rational and society more harmonious. The American Arts and Crafts movement was the aesthetic counterpart of its contemporary political philosophy, progressivism. Characteristically, when the Arts and Crafts Society began in October 1897 in Chicago, it was at Hull House, one of the first American settlement houses for social reform.\n\nArts and Crafts ideals disseminated in America through journal and newspaper writing were supplemented by societies that sponsored lectures. The first was organized in Boston in the late 1890s, when a group of influential architects, designers, and educators determined to bring to America the design reforms begun in Britain by William Morris; they met to organize an exhibition of contemporary craft objects. The first meeting was held on January 4, 1897, at the Museum of Fine Arts (MFA) in Boston to organize an exhibition of contemporary crafts. When craftsmen, consumers, and manufacturers realised the aesthetic and technical potential of the applied arts, the process of design reform in Boston started. Present at this meeting were General Charles Loring, Chairman of the Trustees of the MFA; William Sturgis Bigelow and Denman Ross, collectors, writers and MFA trustees; Ross Turner, painter; Sylvester Baxter, art critic for the \"Boston Transcript\"; Howard Baker, A.W. Longfellow Jr.; and Ralph Clipson Sturgis, architect.\n\nThe first American Arts and Crafts Exhibition began on April 5, 1897, at Copley Hall, Boston featuring more than 1000 objects made by 160 craftsmen, half of whom were women. Some of the advocates of the exhibit were Langford Warren, founder of Harvard's School of Architecture; Mrs. Richard Morris Hunt; Arthur Astor Carey and Edwin Mead, social reformers; and Will H. Bradley, graphic designer. The success of this exhibition resulted in the incorporation of The Society of Arts and Crafts (SAC), on June 28, 1897, with a mandate to \"develop and encourage higher standards in the handicrafts.\" The 21 founders claimed to be interested in more than sales, and emphasized encouragement of artists to produce work with the best quality of workmanship and design. This mandate was soon expanded into a credo, possibly written by the SAC's first president, Charles Eliot Norton, which read:\n\nThis Society was incorporated for the purpose of promoting artistic work in all branches of handicraft. It hopes to bring Designers and Workmen into mutually helpful relations, and to encourage workmen to execute designs of their own. It endeavors to stimulate in workmen an appreciation of the dignity and value of good design; to counteract the popular impatience of Law and Form, and the desire for over-ornamentation and specious originality. It will insist upon the necessity of sobriety and restraint, or ordered arrangement, of due regard for the relation between the form of an object and its use, and of harmony and fitness in the decoration put upon it.\n\nAlso influential were the Roycroft community initiated by Elbert Hubbard in Buffalo and East Aurora, New York, Joseph Marbella, utopian communities like Byrdcliffe Colony in Woodstock, New York, and Rose Valley, Pennsylvania, developments such as Mountain Lakes, New Jersey, featuring clusters of bungalow and chateau homes built by Herbert J. Hapgood, and the contemporary studio craft style. Studio pottery—exemplified by the Grueby Faience Company, Newcomb Pottery in New Orleans, Marblehead Pottery, Teco pottery, Overbeck and Rookwood pottery and Mary Chase Perry Stratton's Pewabic Pottery in Detroit, as well as the art tiles made by Ernest A. Batchelder in Pasadena, California, and idiosyncratic furniture of Charles Rohlfs all demonstrate the influence of Arts and Crafts.\n\nThe \"Prairie School\" of Frank Lloyd Wright, George Washington Maher and other architects in Chicago, the Country Day School movement, the bungalow and ultimate bungalow style of houses popularized by Greene and Greene, Julia Morgan, and Bernard Maybeck are some examples of the American Arts and Crafts and American Craftsman style of architecture. Restored and landmark-protected examples are still present in America, especially in California in Berkeley and Pasadena, and the sections of other towns originally developed during the era and not experiencing post-war urban renewal. Mission Revival, Prairie School, and the 'California bungalow' styles of residential building remain popular in the United States today.\n\nAs theoreticians, educators, and prolific artists in mediums from printmaking to pottery and pastel, two of the most influential figures were Arthur Wesley Dow (1857-1922) on the East Coast and Pedro Joseph de Lemos (1882-1954) in California. Dow, who taught at Columbia University and founded the Ipswich Summer School of Art, published in 1899 his landmark \"Composition\", which distilled into a distinctly American approach the essence of Japanese composition, combining into a decorative harmonious amalgam three elements: simplicity of line, \"notan\" (the balance of light and dark areas), and symmetry of color. His purpose was to create objects that were finely crafted and beautifully rendered. His student de Lemos, who became head of the San Francisco Art Institute, Director of the Stanford University Museum and Art Gallery, and Editor-in-Chief of the \"School Arts Magazine\", expanded and substantially revised Dow's ideas in over 150 monographs and articles for art schools in the United States and Britain. Among his many unorthodox teachings was his belief that manufactured products could express \"the sublime beauty\" and that great insight was to be found in the abstract \"design forms\" of pre-Columbian civilizations.\n\nThe Museum of the American Arts and Crafts Movement is under construction in St. Petersburg, Florida, scheduled to open in 2019.\n\nIn Japan, Yanagi Sōetsu, creator of the Mingei movement which promoted folk art from the 1920s onwards, was influenced by the writings of Morris and Ruskin. Like the Arts and Crafts movement in Europe, Mingei sought to preserve traditional crafts in the face of modernising industry.\n\nMany of the leaders of the Arts and Crafts movement were trained as architects (e.g. William Morris, A. H. Mackmurdo, C. R. Ashbee, W. R. Lethaby) and it was on building that the movement had its most visible and lasting influence.\n\nRed House, in Bexleyheath, London, designed for Morris in 1859 by architect Philip Webb, exemplifies the early Arts and Crafts style, with its well-proportioned solid forms, wide porches, steep roof, pointed window arches, brick fireplaces and wooden fittings. Webb rejected classical and other revivals of historical styles based on grand buildings, and based his design on British vernacular architecture, expressing the texture of ordinary materials, such as stone and tiles, with an asymmetrical and picturesque building composition.\n\nThe London suburb of Bedford Park, built mainly in the 1880s and 1890s, has about 360 Arts and Crafts style houses and was once famous for its Aesthetic residents. Several Almshouses were built in the Arts and Crafts style, for example, Whiteley Village, Surrey, built between 1914 and 1917, with over 280 buildings, and the Dyers Almshouses, Sussex, built between 1939 and 1971. Letchworth Garden City, the first garden city, was inspired by Arts and Crafts ideals. The first houses were designed by Barry Parker and Raymond Unwin in the vernacular style popularized by the movement and the town became associated with high-mindedness and simple living. The sandal-making workshop set up by Edward Carpenter moved from Yorkshire to Letchworth Garden City and George Orwell's jibe about \"every fruit-juice drinker, nudist, sandal-wearer, sex-maniac, Quaker, 'Nature Cure' quack, pacifist, and feminist in England\" going to a socialist conference in Letchworth has become famous.\n\n\nGertrude Jekyll applied Arts and Crafts principles to garden design. She worked with the English architect, Sir Edwin Lutyens, for whose projects she created numerous landscapes, and who designed her home \"Munstead Wood\", near Godalming in Surrey. Jekyll created the gardens for \"Bishopsbarns\", the home of York architect Walter Brierley, an exponent of the Arts and Crafts movement and known as the \"Lutyens of the North\". The garden for Brierley's final project, \"Goddards\" in York, was the work of George Dillistone, a gardener who worked with Lutyens and Jekyll at \"Castle Drogo\". At \"Goddards\" the garden incorporated a number of features that reflected the arts and crafts style of the house, such as the use of hedges and herbaceous borders to divide the garden into a series of outdoor rooms. Another notable Arts and Crafts garden is \"Hidcote Manor Garden\" designed by Lawrence Johnston which is also laid out in a series of outdoor rooms and where, like \"Goddards\", the landscaping becomes less formal further away from the house. Other examples of Arts and Crafts gardens include \"Hestercombe Gardens\", \"Lytes Cary Manor\" and the gardens of some of the architectural examples of arts and crafts buildings (listed above).\n\nMorris's ideas were adopted by the New Education Movement in the late 1880s, which incorporated handicraft teaching in schools at Abbotsholme (1889) and Bedales (1892), and his influence has been noted in the social experiments of Dartington Hall during the mid-20th century.\n\nArts and Crafts practitioners in Britain were critical of the government system of art education based on design in the abstract with little teaching of practical craft. This lack of craft training also caused concern in industrial and official circles, and in 1884 a Royal Commission (accepting the advice of William Morris) recommended that art education should pay more attention to the suitability of design to the material in which it was to be executed. The first school to make this change was the Birmingham School of Arts and Crafts, which \"led the way in introducing executed design to the teaching of art and design nationally (working in the material for which the design was intended rather than designing on paper). In his external examiner's report of 1889, Walter Crane praised Birmingham School of Art in that it 'considered design in relationship to materials and usage.'\" Under the direction of Edward Taylor, its headmaster from 1877 to 1903, and with the help of Henry Payne and Joseph Southall, the Birmingham School became a leading Arts-and-Crafts centre.\n\nOther local authority schools also began to introduce more practical teaching of crafts, and by the 1890s Arts and Crafts ideals were being disseminated by members of the Art Workers Guild into art schools throughout the country. Members of the Guild held influential positions: Walter Crane was director of the Manchester School of Art and subsequently the Royal College of Art; F.M. Simpson, Robert Anning Bell and C.J.Allen were respectively professor of architecture, instructor in painting and design, and instructor in sculpture at Liverpool School of Art; Robert Catterson-Smith, the headmaster of the Birmingham Art School from 1902-1920, was also an AWG member; W. R. Lethaby and George Frampton were inspectors and advisors to the London County Council's (LCC) education board and in 1896, largely as a result of their work, the LCC set up the Central School of Arts and Crafts and made them joint principals. Until the formation of the Bauhaus in Germany, the Central School was regarded as the most progressive art school in Europe. Shortly after its foundation, the Camberwell School of Arts and Crafts was set up on Arts and Crafts lines by the local borough council.\n\nAs head of the Royal College of Art in 1898, Crane tried to reform it along more practical lines, but resigned after a year, defeated by the bureaucracy of the Board of Education, who then appointed Augustus Spencer to implement his plan. Spencer brought in Lethaby to head its school of design and several members of the Art Workers' Guild as teachers. Ten years after reform, a committee of inquiry reviewed the RCA and found that it was still not adequately training students for industry. In the debate that followed the publication of the committee's report, C.R.Ashbee published a highly critical essay, \"Should We Stop Teaching Art\", in which he called for the system of art education to be completely dismantled and for the crafts to be learned in state-subsidised workshops instead. Lewis Foreman Day, an important figure in the Arts and Crafts movement, took a different view in his dissenting report to the committee of inquiry, arguing for greater emphasis on principles of design against the growing orthodoxy of teaching design by direct working in materials. Nevertheless, the Arts and Crafts ethos thoroughly pervaded British art schools and persisted, in the view of the historian of art education, Stuart MacDonald, until after the Second World War.\n\n\nKreisman, Lawrence. The Arts & Craft Movement in the Pacific Northwest. Timber Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "36860376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36860376", "title": "Beg Khan", "text": "Beg Khan\n\nBeg Khan is a concatenation of \"Baig\" and \"Khan\", titles originally used in Central Asia and the Middle East to indicate nobility or high rank. It is used as part of the name or title by the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "4967816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4967816", "title": "Capital punishment in Japan", "text": "Capital punishment in Japan\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in Japan. It is applied in practice only for murder, and executions are carried out by hanging.\n\nDeath sentences are usually reserved for cases of multiple murders, though some single murderers are occasionally hanged. Generally, the only time single murderers are executed is when they commit particularly heinous or depraved acts of murder, such as murder during a kidnapping, torture murder or murder during the commission of another violent crime. \n\nBeginning in about the 4th century, Japan became increasingly influenced by the Chinese judicial system, and gradually adopted a system of different punishments for different crimes, including the death penalty. However, beginning in the Nara period, cruel punishments and the death penalty were used less and less, probably as a result of the influence of Buddhist teachings, and the death penalty was abolished completely in the Heian period. The death penalty was not used for the next 300 years, until the Genpei War.\n\nDuring the following Kamakura period, capital punishment was widely used and methods of execution became increasingly cruel, and included burning, boiling and crucifixion, among many others. During the Muromachi period, even harsher methods of execution came into use, such as upside-down crucifixion, impalement by spear, sawing, and dismemberment with oxen or carts. Even minor offenses could be punished by death, and family members and even neighbors could be punished along with the offender. These harsh methods, and liberal use of the death penalty, continued throughout the Edo period and into the early Meiji period, but due to the influence of Confucianism, offenses against masters and elders were increasingly punished much more harshly than offenses against those of lower rank. Torture was used to extract confessions. In 1871, as the result of a major reform of the penal code, the number of crimes punishable by death was decreased and excessively cruel torture and flogging were abolished. In 1873, another revision resulted in a further reduction in the number of crimes punishable by death, and methods of execution were restricted to beheading or hanging.\n\nIn Japan, the courts follow guidelines laid down in the trial of Norio Nagayama, a 19-year-old from a severely disadvantaged background, who committed four separate robbery-murders in 1968 and was finally hanged in 1997. The Tokyo High Court originally gave him a life term, but in 1983 the Supreme Court of Japan held it was an error, and quashed this sentence.\n\nThe court ruled that the penalty shall be decided in consideration of the degree of criminal liability and balance of justice based on a nine-point set of criteria. Though technically not a precedent, this guideline has been followed by all subsequent capital cases in Japan. The nine criteria are as follows:\n\nThe number of victims killed is the most important criterion for imposition of the death penalty. A death sentence handed down for a single murder (previous convictions included) is considered \"extraordinary\".\n\nIn 2012, a research institute affiliated with the Supreme Court issued a report on application of the death penalty from 1980 to 2009. The study found that, while prosecutors very rarely demand capital punishment in cases of single murder, it was handed down in 32% of those cases. On the other hand, prosecutors seek the death penalty almost systematically in cases of multiple homicide, and it is handed down in 59% of cases of double-murder and 79% of cases where three or more victims have been killed.\n\nThe study also found that the death penalty was handed down in all cases of convicted murderers who killed again after being released on parole from life prison terms, and in all robbery-murder cases with three or more people slain.\n\nFurthermore, in five of 10 kidnap-for-ransom cases in which one person was killed, the defendants were sentenced to death.\n\nSince May 2009, district courts try capital cases using the lay judge system, where three professional judges sit with six randomly chosen citizens. Five votes of nine-member court, including at least one professional judge, are required for issuing a conviction and any punishment, including death.\n\nJapan has a civil law legal system, therefore, appeal courts retry both facts and law. High courts retry cases with only three judges and no lay judges, and can either reduce a death sentence to life or raise a life sentence to death. Ultimately, a five-member petty bench of the Supreme Court has the final say on the penalty, Article 411 of Code of Criminal Procedure allowing it to remand the case or change the punishment if the one handed down by the high court is \"seriously unfair\".\n\nIn only three cases since 1945, the Supreme Court ruled a high court-imposed life sentence too lenient, and ordered a retrial for death sentence. Among them are Norio Nagayama and Takayuki Fukuda, both under 20 at time of crime. The third case was that of a man convicted of murdering an elderly woman for robbery shortly after being paroled from a life sentence imposed for a similar crime.\n\nAccording to Article 475 of the Japanese Code of Criminal Procedure, the death penalty must be executed within six months after the failure of the prisoner's final appeal upon an order from the Minister of Justice. However, the period requesting retrial or pardon is exempt from this regulation. Therefore, in practice, the typical stay on death row is between five and seven years; a quarter of the prisoners have been on death row for over ten years. For several, the stay has been over 30 years (Sadamichi Hirasawa died of natural causes at the age of 95, after awaiting execution for 32 years).\n\nJapanese death row inmates are imprisoned inside the detention centres of Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, Sendai, Fukuoka, Hiroshima and Sapporo. Despite the city having a high court, Tachikawa Detention Centre and Takamatsu Detention Centre are not equipped with execution chambers; executions administered by the Tachikawa and Takamatsu High Courts are carried out in the Tokyo and Osaka Detention Centres. Those on death row are not classified as prisoners by the Japanese justice system and the facilities in which they are incarcerated are not referred to as prisons. Inmates lack many of the rights afforded to other Japanese prisoners. The nature of the regime they live under is largely up to the director of the detention centre, but it is usually significantly harsher than normal Japanese prisons. Inmates are held in solitary confinement and are forbidden to communicate with their fellows. They are permitted two periods of exercise a week, are not allowed televisions and may only possess three books. Prisoners are not allowed to exercise within their own cells. Prison visits, both by family members and legal representatives, are infrequent and closely supervised.\n\nThe execution warrant is signed by the Minister of Justice after internal consultations within the justice ministry. Once the final approval is signed, the execution will take place within five days.\n\nBy statute, the execution cannot take place on a national holiday, Saturday, Sunday, or between 31 December and 2 January.\n\nThe death penalty is carried out by hanging in an execution chamber within the detention centre. When an execution order has been issued, the condemned prisoner is informed in the morning of their execution. The condemned is given a choice of the last meal. The prisoner's family and legal representatives, and also the general public, are informed only afterwards. Since 7 December 2007, the authorities have been releasing the names, natures of crime, and ages of executed prisoners.\n\nThe method of hanging is the long drop, causing a quick death by neck fracture.\n\nAs of August 2014, the number of inmates on death row was 126. Of them, 89 are applying for their cases to be reopened and 25 are requesting amnesty.\n\nHaving signed both the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which forbid any execution for crimes committed under the age of 18, Japan sets the minimum age for capital punishment at 18 (Juvenile Law § 51). Although death sentences for minors (defined in Japan as those under age 20) are rare, those who commit capital crimes at age 18 or 19 may be legally sentenced to death.\n\nNine juvenile criminals have received death sentences that were finalised since 1966: Misao Katagiri, Kiyoshi Watanabe, Mitsuo Sasanuma, Fumio Matsuki, Sumio Kanno, Tsuneo Kuroiwa, Norio Nagayama, Teruhiko Seki, and Takayuki Mizujiri. Seven of them have already been executed, and Watanabe and Seki, both of whom killed four people when they were 19 years old, remain on death row awaiting execution.\n\n, the most recent juvenile death sentence was given to Takayuki Fukuda, passed by the Hiroshima High Court on 22 April 2008, and upheld by the Supreme Court on 20 February 2012. A month after his 18th birthday he killed and then raped a woman, along with murdering her baby.\n\nThe Japanese public has generally supported the death penalty. The government regularly monitors support for the death penalty, the last survey in 2015 showing 80.3% of the public believing that the death penalty is \"permissible\" and 9.7% that it should be abolished. At a 2003 trial, a Tokyo prosecutor presented the court a petition with 76,000 signatures as part of his case for a death sentence.\n\nDuring the late 1980s, four death penalties that were waiting since the period just after World War II were quashed and exonerated by the Supreme Court. Charles Lane of \"The Washington Post\" claims that this embarrassed the Ministry of Justice, whose officials sincerely believed that such mistakes by the system were almost impossible. Between 1989 and 1993, four successive ministers of justice refused to authorise executions, which amounted to an informal moratorium.\n\nThe British newspaper \"The Times\" claimed that the death penalty was effectively suspended on 17 September 2009 with the appointment of Keiko Chiba, who was a member of anti-death penalty MPs caucus group, as Minister of Justice. However, no official policy statement was made in this regard. Chiba only stated that \"I will cautiously handle (the cases) based on the duties of the justice minister.\" \"The Times\"' speculation was conclusively disproved when Chiba signed two death warrants and personally witnessed the execution.\n\nSupporters say that capital punishment is applied infrequently and only to those who have committed the most extreme of crimes—a single act of murder does not attract capital punishment without additional aggravating circumstances such as rape or robbery. In the 1956 debate, Japanese serial killer Genzo Kurita, who engaged in rape and necrophilia, was cited by the Diet as an example of a murderer whose crimes were atrocious enough to merit death. However, it is more the rarity of extreme crimes in Japanese society rather than an unwillingness of the authorities to carry out executions that has caused so few executions to take place.\n\nSince executions resumed in 1993, a rise in street crime during the 1990s, the sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway in 1995 and several high-profile murders have hardened attitudes amongst the public and the judiciary. Since 1999, there have been a series of cases in which criminals sentenced to life imprisonment have been given the death penalty after prosecutors successfully appealed to high courts.\n\nOn 18 March 2009, a district court sentenced to death two men for the murder of Rie Isogai. Fumiko Isogai, who lost her only child in this crime, launched a campaign to call for the death penalty on the three murderers in September 2007. Within ten days, her petition was signed by 100,000 citizens. She presented her petition for the death penalty with some 150,000 signatures to the District Public Prosecutors' Office of Nagoya on 23 October 2007. About 318,000 citizens had signed her petition by December 2008.\n\nAlthough single murderers rarely face a death sentence in Japan, Takeshi Tsuchimoto, a criminal law scholar at Hakuoh University and former prosecutor of the Supreme Public Prosecutors' Office, expected that the recent trend toward harsher punishments, backed by the growing public support for capital punishment, would encourage the court to sentence Kanda and Hori (of the Rie Isogai case) to death. Major national newspapers published editorials in support of this unorthodox judgment on the premise that capital punishment is retained. The \"Asahi Shimbun\" and the \"Mainichi Shimbun\", both major national liberal newspapers, wrote in editorials that the general public favored the judgment, and the \"Nikkei\" lent his support to it. The \"Sankei Shimbun\", a major national paper on the right, aggressively evaluated the judgement with a phrase \"a natural and down-to-earth judgment of great significance\". The \"Tokyo Shimbun\" expressed that capital punishment would be the inevitable sentence in consideration of the brutality of the murder and the pain that the victim's family felt. They also noted, however, that it would be difficult for citizen judges to determine whether death penalty would be appropriate in this kind of case under the lay judge system, which would be started in May 2009. Hiroshi Itakura, a criminal law scholar at Nihon University, said that this decision could be a new criterion for capital punishment under the lay judge system. However, one of the two men sentenced to death in the Isogai case had his sentence reduced to life imprisonment on appeal, and the Supreme Court refused to raise the punishment to death (but he was later sentenced to death in another murder case). The other defendant sentenced to death did not appeal and was hanged in 2015.\n\nAmnesty International argues that the Japanese justice system tends to place great reliance on confessions, even ones obtained under duress. According to a 2005 Amnesty International report:\n\nAmnesty also reports allegations of abuse of suspects during these interrogations. There are reports of physical abuse, sleep deprivation and denial of food, water and use of a toilet. One of its biggest criticisms is that inmates usually remain for years (and sometimes decades) on death row without ever actually being informed of the date of their execution prior to the date itself, so inmates suffer due to the uncertainty of not knowing whether or not any given day will be their last. According to Amnesty International, the intense and prolonged stress means many inmates on death row have poor mental health, suffering from the so-called death row phenomenon. The failure to give advanced notice of executions has been stated by the United Nations Human Rights Committee to be incompatible with articles 2, 7 and 10 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.\n\nSouth Asia Human Rights Documentation Centre claims that the issuance of death warrants by the Ministry of Justice may be politically motivated. In 1997, Norio Nagayama, a prisoner who committed the first of several murders as a juvenile, was executed during the sentencing phase of \"Sakakibara Seito\" for the Kobe child murders, also resulting in a high-profile juvenile murder trial – an attempt, according to South Asia Human Rights Documentation Centre, to show that the harshest punishment could be administered to juveniles. According to \"The New York Times\", the execution of Tsutomu Miyazaki after the Akihabara massacre was claimed to be a similar case.\n\nThe Japanese Federation of Bar Associations also says that capital punishment should be abolished in Japan.\n\nFor older executions, see List of individuals executed by Japan.\n\n\"Note : Offenders noted with a * were sentenced to death for murder(s) committed while on parole for another murder\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6015943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6015943", "title": "Caste systems in Africa", "text": "Caste systems in Africa\n\nCaste systems in Africa are a form of social stratification found in numerous ethnic groups, found in over fifteen countries, particularly in the Sahel, West African and North African region. These caste systems feature endogamy, hierarchical status, inherited occupation, membership by birth, pollution concepts and restraints on commensality.\n\nThe specifics of the caste systems in Africa vary among the ethnic groups. Some societies have a rigid and strict caste system with embedded slavery, whereas others are more diffuse and complex. Countries in Africa that have societies with caste systems include Mali, Mauritania, Senegal, Gambia, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Niger, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Liberia, Sudan, Sierra Leone, Algeria, Nigeria, Chad, Ethiopia, Somalia, Djibouti, Eritrea and others. While it is unclear when and how the caste systems developed in Africa, they are not ancient and likely developed sometime between the 9th century and 15th century in various ethnic groups, probably in conjunction with the institution of slavery.\n\nThe social stratification of the Amhara people of Ethiopia includes castes. According to Donald Levine – a professor of Sociology specializing in Ethiopian society, the Amhara society has consisted of high-ranking clans, low-ranking clans, caste groups (artisans), and slaves. The Amhara caste system was hierarchically higher than its lowest slaves strata.\n\nThe Amhara caste system consisted of: (1) endogamy, (2) hierarchical status, (3) restraints on commensality, (4) pollution concepts, (5) each caste has had a traditional occupation, and (6) inherited caste membership. This caste system has been a rigid, endogamous and occupationally closed social stratification among Amhara and other Afro-Asiatic-speaking Ethiopian ethnic groups. However, some state it as an economically closed, endogamous class system or as occupational minorities, whereas others such as the historian David Todd state that this system can be unequivocally labelled as caste-based.\n\nThe Borana people are found in southern Ethiopia, Somalia and northeastern Kenya. They have historically had castes, among which the hunters and artisans have constituted the depressed strata. These are endogamous castes each with a specialized inherited occupation, and include a strata that constitutes outcastes. They are found in virtually every Cushitic or Semitic community of this region. These castes are neither Negroid nor Bushmanoid by physical features or their first language.\n\nThe lower castes of the Borana people, states Herbert Lewis – a professor of Anthropology specializing on East African societies, show no physical differences from the noble castes of Somalia and Somalilands. Other than endogamy and occupational differences between the castes, their ritual, social and political positions are different, as are the beliefs held by each about the nature of the other. For example, the castes have long considered each other as ritually impure, and food prepared by either nobles or artisans castes is considered a taboo to others. Similarly, traditionally, the craftsman and the noble are ritually forbidden to enter the house of the other. Low caste people are expected not to handle farm equipment or cattle.\n\nIn Ethiopia, the outcaste groups include the Weyto, who live on the shores of Lake Tana and are despised for eating hippopotamus meat.\n\nThe Oromo people are the largest ethnic group in Ethiopia, also found in northern Kenya and Somalia, with an estimated total population of over 35 million.\n\nLike other ethnic groups in the Horn of Africa and East Africa, Oromo people regionally developed social stratification consisting of four hierarchical strata. The highest strata were the nobles called the \"Borana\", below them were the \"Gabbaro\" (some 17th to 19th century Ethiopian texts refer them as the \"dhalatta\"). Below these two upper castes were the despised castes of artisans, and at the lowest level were the slaves.\n\nIn the Islamic Kingdom of Jimma, the Oromo society's caste strata predominantly consisted of endogamous, inherited artisanal occupations. Each caste group has specialized in a particular occupation such as iron working, carpentry, weapon making, pottery, weaving, leather working and hunting.\n\nThe castes in the Oromo society have had a designated name, such as \"Tumtu\" were smiths, \"Fuga\" were potters, \"Faqi\" were tanners and leatherworkers, \"Semmano\" for weavers, \"Gagurtu\" were bee keepers and honey makers, \"Watta\" were hunters and foragers. While slaves were an endogamous strata within the Oromo society, they themselves were also victims of slavery. By the 19th century, Oromo slaves were sought after and a major part of slaves sold in Gondar and Gallabat slave markets at Ethiopia-Sudan border, as well as the Massawa and Tajura markets on the Red Sea.\n\nThe Somalis are a Muslim ethnic group of between 15 and 20 million people, constituting the largest ethnicity in Somalia, many of whom also live in Ethiopia, Kenya, and Djibouti.\n\nThey have historically exhibited social stratification that has included embedded castes referred to as \"Higal\" (or \"Higalki\", \"Argobba\"). The upper noble strata has been called \"Gob\" (or Asha), while the lower servile strata have been referred to as \"Sáb\". The three main Somali castes are called \"Tumal\" (sometimes spelled \"Tomal\"), \"Midgan\" and \"Yibir\" (sometimes spelled \"Yebir\"). These fell outside of the traditional clan structure. The castes have been endogamous, a person born into it inherited its occupation. The \"Midgan\" have been the hunters, \"Tumal\" were the smiths, pottery and leatherworking caste, and the \"Yibir\" have been the saddle and prayer mat makers and magician caste. Below the castes have been the Somali Bantu \"Jareer\" community, and these have been descendants of former slaves, including those who were runaway and emancipated slaves.\n\nAccording to Mohamed Eno and Abdi Kusow, the Somali caste communities are ethnically indistinguishable from each other, but upper castes have stigmatized the lower ones with mythical narratives such as they being of unholy origins or being engaged in dirty occupations. The four strata social system – high lineage, low lineage, caste groups and slaves – found among the Somalis has been common in the Horn of Africa region, states Donald Levine, and is also found among ethnic groups such as Afar, Amhara, Borana, Leqa, Sidamo, Kefa, Janjero and other peoples.\n\nAccording to Catherine Besteman - a professor of Anthropology, the widespread purchase of non-Somali African slaves during the medieval age helped structure the complex status hierarchy among the Somalis. However, adds Besteman, the Somali people from the upper strata have also been egalitarian in matters of clan leadership, while they have included concepts of social status, inferiority and exclusion of \"Sáb\" and slaves. In the northern regions where Somalis are traditionally found, states Iaon Lewis, Somali communities have traditionally distinguished between the artisanal Somali castes and their slaves, but in the south they have blurred these distinctions.\n\nThe castes among Somali people have also existed in other east and northeast African ethnic groups. In east African ethnic groups, such as the Oromo people for example, cognates to Somali castes have been recorded in 16th century texts, states Cornelius Jaenen. The table below illustrate some alternate terms for castes mirroring the Somali Madhiban in other ethnic groups that share this region with the Somali people. Similarly, equivalent terms for castes in other northeast and east African ethnic groups mirror other castes such as the Tomal and the Yibir of Somali people.\n\nThe Muslim Moors society in the Maghreb parts of the North Africa was traditionally (and still is, to some extent) stratified. According to Rebecca Popenoe – a professor of Anthropology, while the Islamic scriptures do not dictate a caste system, and while caste systems are not divinely ordained, the Moors believe that castes are \"fundamentally different sorts of people\" and find the root of the caste system in early Islam. The slave caste in the Moors' belief system have descended from Bilal, the slave of Muhammad, while the artisan castes are descendants of those \"who refused to accept Allah\". In Mauritanian context, the Kafa'a doctrine has been developed as a justification for considering family status before marriage, annulment of marriages between unequal people, and endogamy.\n\nMoors have owned slaves for centuries. The slaves are traditionally called Haratin and \"`Abid\", and they were the lowest status endogamous castes, largely segregated oasis-dwelling black people, in the Moors society.\n\nThe Haratin of Mauritania, states Joseph Hellweg – a professor of Anthropology specializing on West African studies, were part of a social caste-like hierarchy that likely developed between 1300 to 1500 CE because of a Bedouin legacy. The \"Hassan\" monopolized the occupations related to war and politics, the \"Zwaya\" (Zawaya) the religious roles, the \"Bidan\" (White Moors) owned property and held slaves (Haratins, Black Moors), and the slaves constituted the lowest of the social strata. Each of these were castes, endogamous, with hereditary occupations and where the upper strata collected tribute (\"horma\") from the lower strata of Mauritanian society, considered them socially inferior, and denied them the right to own land or weapons thereby creating a socio-economically closed system.\n\nAmong Hassaniya Arabic speakers in southern Morocco and Mauritania, states Sean Hanretta – a professor of African History, the term \"Bidan\" is a \"caste synecdoche\" that refers to \"Hassani\" (warrior) and \"Zwaya\" (clerical) clans. In the slave castes, they recognized two layers, the \"`Abid\" (slaves) and \"Haratins\" (freed slaves). According to Remco Ensel – a professor of Anthropology specializing in Maghreb studies, the word \"Haratin\" in Moroccan is a pejorative that connotes \"subordination, disrepute\" and in contemporary literature, it is often replaced with \"Drawi\", \"Drawa\", \"Sahrawi\", \"Sahrawa\" or other regional terms. The \"Haratins\" historically lived segregated from the main society, in a rural isolation. Their subjugation regardless of their religion was sometimes ideologically justified by nobles and some Islamic scholars, even though some scholars took a more nuanced view that Muslims can only enslave non-Muslims and they should not enslave other Muslims, states Hamel – a professor of History specializing in African Studies. They along with \"Swasin\" in Morocco and other northern fringe societies of the Sahara, were a part of a social hierarchy that included the upper strata of nobles, religious specialists and literati, followed by freemen, nomadic pastoral strata and slaves. The Haratin were hierarchically higher than the \"`Abid\" (descendant of slaves) at the very bottom, but lower than \"Ahrar\". This hierarchy, states Ensel, has been variously described as ethnic groups, estates, quasi-castes, castes or classes.\n\nThe Tuareg people are a large Berber ethnic confederation found in North Africa. They principally inhabit the Sahara desert, in a vast area stretching from far southwestern Libya to southern Algeria, Niger, Mali and Burkina Faso. Traditionally nomadic pastoralists, small groups of Tuareg are also found in northern Nigeria. Tuareg society has traditionally featured clan membership, social status and caste hierarchies within each political confederation. These hierarchical systems have included nobles, clerics, craftsmen and unfree strata of people.\n\nIn Tuareg hierarchical caste system, the nobles constitute the highest caste. They are known in the Tuareg language as \"imúšaɣ\" (\"Imajaghan\", \"the proud and free\" in Arabic). The nobles had a monopoly on carrying arms and camels, were the warriors of the Tuareg regions. They may have achieved their social status by subjugating other Tuareg castes, keeping arms to defend their properties and vassals. They have also collected tribute from their vassals. This warror nobility has traditionally married within their caste, not to individuals in strata below their own. A collection of tribes, each led by a noble, forms a confederation called \"amanokal\", whose chieftain is elected from among the nobles by the tribal chiefs. The chietain is the overlord during times of war, and receives tribute and taxes from tribes as a sign of their submission to his authority.\n\nThe vassal-herdsmen are the second free strata within Tuareg society, occupying a position just below that of the nobles. They are known as \"ímɣad\" (\"Imghad\", singular \"Amghid\") in the Tuareg language. Although the vassals were also free, they did not own camels but instead kept donkeys and herds of goats, sheep and oxen. They pastured and tended their own herds as well those owned by the nobles of the confederation. The vassal strata have traditionally paid an annual \"tiwse\", or tribute to the nobles as a part of their status obligations, and also hosted any noble who is traveling through their territory. In late medieval era, states Prasse, this weapon monopoly broke down after regional wars took a heavy toll on the noble warrior strata, and thereafter the vassals carried weapons as well and were recruited as warriors. After the start of the French colonial rule which dislodged the nobles from their powers over war and taxation, the Tuaregs belonging to the noble strata disdained tending cattle and tilling the land, seeking instead warrior or intellectual work.\n\nA semi-noble strata of the Tuareg people has been the endogamous religious clerics, the \"marabouts\" (Tuareg: \"Ineslemen\", a loan word that means Muslim in Arabic). After the adoption of Islam, they became integral to the Tuareg social structure. According to Norris, this strata of Muslim clerics has been a sacredotal caste, which propagated Islam in North Africa and the Sahel between the 7th and the 17th centuries. Adherence to the faith was initially centered around this caste, but later spread to the wider Tuareg community. The marabouts have traditionally been the judges (\"qadi\") and religious leaders (\"imam\") of a Tuareg community.\n\nAccording to the anthropologist Jeffrey Heath, Tuareg artisans belong to separate endogamous castes known as the \"Inhædˤæn\" (\"Inadan\"). These have included the blacksmith, jewelers, wood workers and leather artisan castes. They produced and repaired the saddles, tools, household items and other items for the Tuareg community. In Niger and Mali, where the largest Tuareg populations are found, the artisan castes were attached as clients to a family of nobles or vassals, and carried messages over distances for their patron family. They also are the ones who traditionally sacrifice animals during Islamic festivals.\n\nThese social strata, like caste systems found in many parts of West Africa, included singers, musicians and story tellers of the Tuareg, who kept their oral traditions. They are called \"Agguta\" by Tuareg, have been called upon to sing during ceremonies such as weddings or funerals. The origins of the artisanal castes are unclear. One theory posits a Jewish derivation, a proposal that Prasse calls \"a much vexed question\". Their association with fire, iron and precious metals and their reputation for being cunning tradesman has led others to treat them with a mix of admiration and distrust.\n\nAccording to Rasmussen, the Tuareg castes are not only hierarchical, as each caste differs in mutual perception, food and eating behaviors. On this point, she relates an explanation by a smith on why there is endogamy among castes among Tuareg in Niger. The smith explained, \"Nobles are like rice, Smiths are like millet, Slaves are like corn.\"\n\nIn the Tuareg areas of Algeria, a distinct tenant-peasant strata lives around oases known as \"izeggaghan\" (or \"hartani\" in Arabic). Traditionally, these local peasants were subservient to the warrior nobles who owned the oasis and the land. The peasants tilled these fields, whose output they gave to the nobles after keeping a fifth part of the produce. Their Tuareg patrons were usually responsible for supplying agricultural tools, seed and clothing. The peasants' origins are also unclear. One theory postulates that they are descendants of ancient people who lived in the Sahara before they were dominated by invading groups. Some speak a Songhay dialect along with Tuareg and Arabic. In contemporary times, these peasant strata have blended in with freed black slaves and farm arable lands together.\n\nAccording to the historian Starratt, the Tuareg evolved a system of slavery that was highly differentiated. They established strata among their slaves, which determined rules as to the slave's expected behavior, marriageability, inheritance rights if any, and occupation. The \"Ikelan\" later became a bonded caste within Tuareg society. According to Heath, the \"Bella\" in the Tuareg society were the slave caste whose occupation was rearing and herding livestock such as sheep and goats.\n\nThe Fula people are one of the largest and a widely dispersed Muslim ethnic group in Sahel and West Africa. They number between 20 and 25 million people in total across many countries of this region, and they have historically featured a caste system.\n\nThe Fula caste system has been fairly rigid and has medieval roots. It was well established by the 15th-century, and it has survived into modern age. The four major castes, states Martin Kich, in their order of status are \"nobility, traders, tradesmen (such as blacksmith) and descendants of slaves\". According to the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights, the Fulani people have held on to \"a strict caste system\".\n\nThe upper caste consists of the nobles. Below these are the marabouts or clerics, then the cattle owning Fula people. Below all these are the artisan castes, which includes the blacksmiths, potters, griots, genealogists, woodworkers, and dressmakers. They belong to castes but are not enslaved and are \"free people\". Then there are those castes of captive, slave or serf ancestry: the \"Maccuɗo\", \"Rimmayɓe\", \"Dimaajo\", and less often \"Ɓaleeɓe\", the Fulani equivalent of the Tuareg Ikelan known as Bouzou (Buzu)/Bella in the Hausa and Songhay languages respectively.\n\nThe Fulani castes are endogamous in nature, meaning individuals marry only within their caste. This caste system, however, wasn't as elaborate in places like northern Nigeria, Eastern Niger or Cameroon. According to some estimates, by the late 19th century, slaves constituted about 50% of the population of the Fulɓe-ruled Adamawa Emirate, where they were referred to as \"jeyaɓe\" (singular \"jeyado\"). Though very high, these figures are representative of many other emirates of the Sokoto Caliphate, of which Adamawa formed a part. The castes-based social stratification among the Fula people was widespread and seen across the Sahel, such as Burkina Faso, Niger, Senegal, Guinea, Mali, Nigeria, Sudan, and others.\n\nThe Osu caste system in Nigeria and southern Cameroon of the Igbo people can be traced back to Odinani, the traditional Igbo religion. It is the belief of many Igbo traditionalists that the Osus are people historically owned by deities, and are therefore considered to be a 'living sacrifice', an outcast, untouchable and sub-human (similar to the Roman practice of \"homo sacer\"). This system received literary attention when it became a key plot point in \"No Longer at Ease\" by Chinua Achebe.\n\nPeople regarded as modern-day Osu in Igboland are descendants of individuals who volunteered and were sacrificed to the various gods. These fore-fathers pledged themselves and their descendants to these gods. They enjoyed protection and privileges but were segregated from ordinary folks. These Osu people married, fraternized and socialized among themselves. The practice continued to this day. An ordinary Igbo person would not marry or permit any of his relations to marry an Osu person. In a few instances where that has happened, every member of that non-Osu who married an Osu became infested and were regarded as Osu.\n\nIt can be said that the only aspect of Igbo life that keeps the Osu segregation intact is marriage. An Osu could and could only marry a fellow Osu, and no more. It is a taboo and abhorent for an Osu to marry a non-Osu - love or lust being immaterial.\n\nSome suggest that due to the introduction of modernization, the Osu system is gradually leaving Igboland and tradition. The influence of Christianity (specifically Roman Catholicism) has caused Odinani to start slowly disappearing from Igboland. Obinna, in 2012, reports that in the Igbo community - especially in Enugu, Anambra, Imo, Abia, Ebonyi, Edo and Delta states - Osu caste system remains a social issue. The Osu caste is determined by one's birth into a particular family irrespective of the religion practised by the individual. Once born into the Osu caste, this Nigerian person is an outcast, with limited opportunities or acceptance, regardless of his or her ability or merit. Obinna discusses how this caste system-related identity and power is deployed within government, Church and indigenous communities.\n\nAmong the Mande societies in Mali, Senegal, the Gambia, Guinea, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Ivory Coast and Ghana, people are divided by occupation and ethnic ties. The highest hierarchy in the Mande caste system, the Horon (nobles/freeborn), are traditionally farmers, fisherman, warriors and animal breeders, the lowest caste are the Jonow, a \"slave\" caste, made up of people whose ancestors were enslaved by other Africans during tribal wars. An important feature of this system are castes based on trade, such as blacksmiths and griots.\n\nThe Mandinka people are a West African ethnic group with an estimated population of eleven million with roots in western Sahel, in Mali, but now widely dispersed. Over 99% of Mandinka are Muslim.<\n\nThe Mandinka people live primarily in West Africa, particularly in the Gambia and the Guinea where they are the largest ethnic group. Major populations of the Mandinka people also live in Mali, Sierra Leone, Ivory Coast, Senegal, Burkina Faso, Liberia, Guinea-Bissau, Niger and Mauritania. Their traditional society has featured socially stratified castes, from at least the 13th century.\n\nThe Mandinka society, states Arnold Hughes – a professor of West African Studies and African Politics, has been \"divided into three endogamous castes – the freeborn (\"foro\"), slaves (\"jongo\"), and artisans and praise singers (\"nyamolo\"). The freeborn castes are primarily farmers, while the slave strata included labor providers to the farmers, as well as leather workers, pottery makers, metal smiths, griots and others. The Mandinka Muslim clerics and scribes have traditionally been a separate endogamous occupational caste called \"Jakhanke\", with their Islamic roots traceable to about the 13th-century.\n\nThe Mandinka castes are hereditary, and marriages outside the caste was forbidden. Their caste system is similar to those of other ethnic groups of the African Sahel region, and found across the Mandinka communities such as those in Gambia, Mali, Guinea and other countries.\n\nThe Serer people are a West African ethnoreligious group found in Senegal making up 15% of the Senegalese population. They are also found in northern Gambia and southern Mauritania. The Serer society, like other ethnic groups in Senegal, has had social stratification featuring endogamous castes and slaves.\n\nAccording to Elizabeth Berg, Ruth Wan and Ruth Lau, Serer people in Senegal did not have a caste system before the Malinka rulers conquered them and introduced a caste system. In other regions where Serer people are found, state JD Fage, Richard Gray and Roland Oliver, the Wolof and Toucouleur peoples introduced the caste system among the Serer people.\n\nThe social stratification historically evidenced among the Serer people has been, except for one difference, very similar to those found among Wolof, Fulbe, Toucouleur and Mandinka peoples found in Senegambia. They all have had strata of free nobles and peasants, artisan castes, and slaves. The difference is that the Serer people have retained a matrilineal inheritance system. According to Martin Klein – a professor of History specializing in African Studies, the caste systems among the Serer emerged as a consequence of the Mandinka people's Sine-Saloum guelowar conquest, and when the Serer people sought to adapt and participate in the new Senegambian state system.\n\nThe hierarchical highest status among the Serer people has been those of hereditary nobles and their relatives, which meant blood links to the Mandinka conquerors. Below the nobles, came \"tyeddo\", or the warriors and chiefs who had helped the Mandinka rulers and paid tribute. The third status, and the largest strata came to be the \"jambur\", or free peasants who lacked the power of the nobles. Below the \"jambur\" were the artisan castes, who inherited their occupation. These castes included blacksmiths, weavers, jewelers, leatherworkers, carpenters, griots who kept the oral tradition through songs and music. Of these all castes had a taboo in marrying a griot, and they could not be buried like others. Below the artisan castes in social status have been the slaves, who were either bought at slave markets, seized as captives, or born to a slave parent.\n\nThe slave castes continue to be despised, they do not own land and work as tenant farmers, marriage across caste lines is forbidden and lying about one's caste prior to marriage has been a ground for divorce. The land has been owned by the upper social strata, with the better plots near the villages belonging to the nobles. The social status of the slave has been inherited by birth.\n\nThe Senufo people are found in a region spanning the northern Ivory Coast, the southeastern Mali and the western Burkina Faso. One sub-group, the Nafana, is found in north-western Ghana.\n\nThe Senufo people have traditionally been a socially stratified society that has included castes and slaves. These endogamous divisions are locally called \"Katioula\", and one of the strata in this division includes slaves and descendants of slaves. According to Dolores Richter, the caste system found among Senufo people features \"hierarchical ranking including despised lower castes, occupational specificity, ritual complementarity, endogamy, hereditary membership, residential isolation and the political superiority of farmers over artisan castes\".\n\nThe Soninke people are a West African ethnic group found in eastern Senegal and its capital Dakar, northwestern Mali and southern Mauritania. Predominantly Muslims, the Soninke were one of the early ethnic groups from Sub-Saharan West Africa to convert to Islam about the 10th century. The contemporary population of Soninke people is estimated to be over 2 million. The cultural practices of Soninke people are similar to the Mandé peoples, and includes social stratification. According to the anthropologist Tal Tamari, the Soninke society became highly stratified after the thirteenth century.\n\nThe Soninke strata have included a free category called \"Horro\" or \"Horon\", a caste system category called \"Namaxala\" or \"Nyaxamalo\", and slaves called \"Komo\". In the Jaara subgroup of the Soninke people, the nobility called \"Tunkanlenmu\" was another strata.\n\nThe slaves were the largest strata, one at the bottom among the Soninke like other West African ethnic groups, and constituted up to half of the population. The slaves among the Soninke people were hierarchically arranged into three strata. The village slaves were a privileged servile group who lived apart from the village and took orders from the village chief. The domestic slaves lived in with a family and could not be sold. The lowest level among slaves were the trade slaves who could be bought and sold. With time, each of these strata became endogamous, states Daniel Littlefield – a professor of History.\n\nAbove the slaves were the castes of Soninke, which too were hereditary, endogamous and had an embedded hierarchical status. They included, for example, the \"garanke\" (leather workers) below the \"fune\" (bard), the \"fune\" below the \"gesere\" or \"jeli\" (griots, singers), the \"jeli\" below the \"tage\" or \"numu\" (smiths, pottery workers).\n\nThe Susu people are a West African ethnic group, one of the Mandé peoples living primarily in Guinea. Influential in Guinea, smaller communities of Susu people are also found in the neighboring Sierra Leone and Guinea-Bissau. The Susu are a patrilineal society, predominantly Muslim, who favor endogamous cross-cousin marriages with polygynous households common. They have a caste system like all Manding-speaking peoples of West Africa, where the artisans such as smiths, carpenters, musicians, jewelers and leatherworkers are separate castes, and believed to have descended from the medieval era slavery.\n\nThe Susu people, like other Manding-speaking peoples, have a caste system regionally referred to by terms such as \"Nyamakala\", \"Naxamala\" and \"Galabbolalauba\". According to David Conrad and Barbara Frank, the terms and social categories in this caste-based social stratification system of Susu people shows cases of borrowing from Arabic only, but the likelihood is that these terms are linked to Latin, Greek or Aramaic.\n\nThe artisans among Susu people such as smiths, carpenters, musicians and bards (\"Yeliba\"), jewelers and leatherworkers are separate castes. The Susu people believe that these castes have descended from the medieval era slaves. The Susu castes are not limited to Guinea, but are found in other regions where Susu people live, such as in Sierra Leone where too they are linked to the historic slavery system that existed in the region, states Daniel Harmon. The Susu castes in the regional Muslim communities were prevalent and recorded by sociologists in late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nThe Temne people are a West African ethnic group. They are predominantly found in the northwestern and central parts of Sierra Leone, as well as the national capital Freetown. Some Temne are also found in Guinea. The Temne constitute the largest ethnic group in Sierra Leone, at 35% of the total population. Temne society consists of patrilineal clans, is predominantly a mix of Muslim and polytheists, and some clans feature castes.\n\nThe artisans and musicians in the Temne society have been endogamous caste people. The terminology of this social stratification system and the embedded hierarchy may have been adopted among the Temne from the nearby Mandinka people, Fula people and Susu people. The caste hierarchy and social stratification has been more well established in the northern Islamic parts of Temne territories. The endogamous slave castes were held in Temne clans as agriculture workers and domestic servants, and they formed the lowest subservient layer of the social strata. Enslaved women served as domestic workers, wives and concubines.\n\nThe Toucouleur people are a Muslim West African ethnic group found mostly in Futa Toro region of Senegal, with some in Mali and Mauritania. The Toucouleur embraced Islam in the 11th century, their early and strong Islamic heritage is a matter of great pride for them. They have been influential in the spread of Islam to West Africa in the medieval era, later founded the vast Tukulor Empire in the 19th century under Umar Tal that led a religious war against their neighboring ethnic groups and the French colonial forces. The Toucouleur society has been patrilineal, polygynous and with high social stratification that included slavery and caste system.\n\nToucouleur society is divided into strict and rigid caste hierarchies.\n\nThe highest status among the five Toucouleur castes is of the aristocratic leaders and Islamic scholars called \"Torobe\". Below them are the \"Rimbe\", or the administrators, traders and farmers. The \"Nyenbe\" are the artisan castes of the Toucouleur society. The fourth caste strata is called the \"Gallunkobe\" or the slaves or descendants of slaves \"who have been freed\". The bottom strata among the Toucouleurs are the \"Matyube\" or slaves. The slaves were acquired by raiding pagan ethnic groups or purchased in slave markets, or the status was inherited.\n\nThe hierarchical social stratification has been an economically closed system, which historically has meant a marked inequality. Property and land has been exclusively owned by the upper caste members. Occupations and caste memberships are inherited. The Toucouleur castes have been endogamous, segregated and intermarriage has been rare. The clerics among Toucouleur like the Wolof people formed a separate group. The religious leaders were not necessarily endogamous nor an inherited post in Toucouleur people's long history, but it has been rare for lower caste people to become religious specialist, states Rüdiger Seesemann, as they were viewed as not sufficiently adhering to the \"clerical standards of piety\".\n\nThe Wolof people are a West African Muslim ethnic group found in northwestern Senegal, The Gambia, and southwestern coastal Mauritania. In Senegal, the Wolof are the largest ethnic group (~ 39%), and their combined population exceeds 6 million. The Wolof people, like other West African ethnic groups, have historically maintained a rigid, endogamous social stratification that included nobility, clerics, castes and slaves. The Wolof caste system has existed at least since the 15th-century.\n\nThe social strata have included a free category called \"geer\", a castes category called \"nyeenyo\" or \"neeno\", and a servile category of slaves called \"jaam\". Caste status has been hereditary, and endogamy among the men and women of a particular caste status has been an enduring feature among the Wolof people, states Leonardo Villalón – a professor of Political Science and African Studies. The Wolof's caste status, states Villalón, has been and is a greater barrier to inter-marriage than is either ethnicity or religion in Senegal.\n\nThe castes have also been hierarchal, with lowest level being those of griots. Their inherited inferiority has been culturally stated to be close to those of slaves (\"jaams\" or \"kaals\"). The castes, states David Gamble, were associated with ideas of relative purity-impurity. The leatherworkers, for example, were considered the lowest of the \"nyenyo\" because their occupation involving animal skins was considered dirty.\n\nSlaves have historically been a separate, endogamous group in the Wolof society. Slavery was either inherited by birth in the Wolof society, or were kidnapped, purchased as children from desperate parents during difficult times such as a famine, or slavery was imposed by the village elders as a punishment for offenses. By the early 18th-century, all sorts of charges and petty crimes resulted in the accused being punished to the slave strata. Slaves acquired by kidnapping, purchase or as captives of war were called \"jaam sayor\" in the Wolof society.\n\nThe \"geer\" or \"freeborn\" too had a hierarchical structure. At the top were the royal rulers, below them were the regionally or locally powerful noble lineages who controlled territories and collected tribute, and below them were commoner freeborn called the \"baadoolo\" or \"lacking power\".\n\nThe Zarma people are an ethnic group predominantly found in westernmost Niger also found in significant numbers in the adjacent areas of Nigeria and Benin, along with smaller numbers in Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast and Ghana. The Zarma people are predominantly Muslims of the Maliki-Sunni school, and they live in the arid Sahel lands, along the Niger River valley which is a source of irrigation, forage for cattle herds, and drinking water. The Zarma people have had a history of slave and caste system, like many West African ethnic groups.\n\nThe Zarma people have traditionally been a socially stratified society, like the Songhai people, featuring castes, state Jean-Pierre Olivier de Sardan, Tal Tamari and other scholars. According to the medieval and colonial era descriptions, their vocation has been hereditary, and each stratified group has been endogamous. The social stratification embedded slavery, wherein the lowest strata of the population inherited slavery, and second the \"Zima\" or priests and Islamic clerics had to be initiated but did not automatically inherit that profession, making the cleric strata a pseudo-caste. According to Ralph Austen – a professor emeritus of African history, the caste system among the Zarma people was not as well developed as the caste system historically found in the African ethnic groups further west to them.\nThe different strata of the Zarma-Songhai people have included the kings and warriors, the scribes, the artisans, the weavers, the hunters, the fishermen, the leather workers and hairdressers (Wanzam), and the domestic slaves (Horso, Bannye). Each caste reveres its own guardian spirit. Some scholars such as John Shoup list these strata in three categories: free (chiefs, farmers and herders), servile (artists, musicians and griots), and the slave class. The servile group were socially required to be endogamous, while the slaves could be emancipated over four generations. The highest social level, states Shoup, claim to have descended from king \"Sonni 'Ali Ber\" and their modern era hereditary occupation has been \"Sohance\" (sorcerer). The traditionally free strata of the Zerma people have owned property and herds, and these have dominated the political system and governments during and after the French colonial rule. Within the stratified social system, the Islamic system of polygynous marriages is a part of the Zarma people tradition, with preferred partners being cross cousins, and a system of ritualistic acceptance between co-wives. This endogamy is similar to other ethnic groups in West Africa.\n\nThe Mandara people are a Central African Muslim ethnic group found in north Cameroon, northeastern Nigeria, and southeastern Chad. They have lived in the mountainous region and valleys north of the Benue River in Cameroon, converted to Islam sometime around the 16th century, and have long been a part of the Mandara Sultanate.\n\nThe Mandara society developed into a socially stratified system, with Sultan and royalty, farmers, horse breeders, artisans, iron workers and smiths forming a distinct endogamous occupation-inheriting castes. The caste system among the Mandara people integrated the concept that the strata have innate pollution and therefore they are stigmatized, however there is no evidence that their Islamic belief integrated the differences between the socially differentiated castes in their society to have been divinely sanctioned. The Mandara people also featured an endogamous slave strata.\n\nThe Toubou people are an Islamic ethnic group inhabiting northern Chad, southern Libya, northeastern Niger, and northwestern Sudan.\n\nThe Toubou people, states Jean Chapelle – a professor of History specializing on Chadian ethnic groups, have been socially stratified with an embedded caste system. The three strata have consisted of the freemen with a right to own property, the artisanal castes and the slaves.\n\nThe endogamous caste of \"Azza\" (or \"Aza\") among Toubou have the artisanal occupations, such as metal work, leather work, pottery and tailoring, and they have traditionally been despised and segregated by other strata of the Toubou, much like the \"Hadahid\" caste in southeastern Chad among the Zaghawa people. Marriage between a member of the blacksmith caste and a member from a different strata of the Toubou people has been culturally unacceptable. The strata locally called \"Kamadja\" were the slaves. The language used by the Azza people is a variant of the Tebu language, but mutually intelligible.\n\nThe Zaghawa people, also called \"Beri\" or Zakhawa, are a Central African Muslim ethnic group of eastern Chad and western Sudan, including Darfur. The Zaghawa are mentioned in classical Arabic language texts by Islamic historians and geographers. The century in which the Zaghawa people adopted Islam has been a subject of debate and little consensus, with estimates ranging from the 13th to the early 17th century.\n\nThe Zaghawa society has been socially stratified and has included castes. The upper strata has been of nobles and warriors, below them have been the traders and merchants, below whom have been the artisan castes called the \"Hadaheed\" (or \"Hadahid\"). These castes have been endogamous, and their inherited occupations have included iron work, hunters, pottery, leatherwork and musicians such as drummers. The artisan work has traditionally been viewed within the Zaghawa society as dirty and of inferior status, being people from different pagan and Jewish roots who slowly assimilated into the Islamic society.\n\nThe term \"blacksmith\" has been a derogatory term in Zaghawa culture, states Anne Haour – a professor of African Studies and Medieval Archaeology, and \"if born a blacksmith one will always be a blacksmith\". Non-blacksmith castes of Zaghawa neither eat nor associate with the blacksmith castes. The lowest strata has been the slaves. The social stratification and castes such as for the leatherworker strata within the Zaghawa people is similar to those found in nearby Fur people.\n\nThe Merina people are the largest ethnic group in Madagascar. They historically have had a highly stratified caste system. The Merina society emerged in the 15th century in the central high plateau region of Madagascar. Its society, like many ethnic groups in Africa, had two category of people, the free locally called the \"fotsy\", and the serfs or \"mainty\". These were divided into three strata: the \"Andriana\" (nobles), the \"Hova\" (freemen), and the lowest strata called \"Andevo\" (slaves).\n\nEach strata was hierarchically subdivided. The \"Andriana\" are divided into six sub-strata, for example, each had an inherited occupation, and were endogamous.\n\nThe nineteenth century records show that \"Andevo\" or slaves were imported black Africans, and they constituted about a third of the Merina society. The Merina society sold highland slaves to both Muslim and European slave traders on Madagascar coast, as well as bought East African and Mozambique-sourced slaves from them for their own plantations between 1795 and 1895. Marriage and any sexual relations between the upper strata \"fotsy\" and the lower strata \"mainty\" were a taboo. According to a 2012 report by Gulnara Shahinian – the United Nation's Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery, the descendants of former slave castes continue to suffer in contemporary Madagascar Merina society, and inter-caste marriages continue to be socially ostracized.\n\nThe caste systems in Africa have been linked to the a pre-developed trading network, invasions from North Africa and the Middle East after the 7th century, followed by a slavery system that targeted the pagans. According to Susan McIntosh – a professor of Anthropology specializing in African societies, archeological evidence shows that Arabs and Berbers had expanded and established an integrated sub-Saharan trade and transport network with West Africa, building upon the pre-existing trade routes through Western Sudan. This trade by 9th to 10th centuries, states McIntosh, included commodities and slaves. The reach of slave trading had extended into Ghana and the western Atlantic coast by the 11th century, and the slave raiding, capture, holding and trading systems became increasingly sophisticated in 13th and 14th century Mali Empire and 16th century Songhai Empire.\n\nAs the practice of slavery grew, so did the caste system. Tamari suggests that a corollary of the rising slavery system was the development and growth of the caste system among numerous ethnic groups of Africa by about the 13th century. McIntosh concurs with Tamari's reasoning approach, but disagrees with the dating. McIntosh states that the emergence of caste systems likely occurred much earlier in the West African societies such as Soninke, Mande, Malinke, Wolof, Serer, and others. She places the development and spread of castes in these societies to about the 10th-century, because the slave capture, slave trade and slave holding by elite families was an established institution in West Africa by then, and slavery created a template for servile relationships and social stratification of human beings.\n\nThe linguistic evidence suggests that stratification structure and words relating to caste system and slavery likely were shared between the many ethnic groups, and possibly some others such as the Dogon people of West Africa. However, the linguistic differences between the caste and slave systems between Soninke and northern ethnic groups of Africa such as the Tuareg people and Moors suggests that these evolved separately.\n\nLouis Dumont, the 20th-century author famous for his classic \"Homo Hierarchicus\", recognized the social stratification among the ethnic groups in West Africa, but suggested that sociologists should invent a new term for West African social stratification system. Other scholars consider this a bias and isolationist because the West African system shares all elements in Dumont's system, including economic, ritual, spiritual, endogamous, elements of pollution, segregative and spread over a large region. According to Anne Haour – a professor of African Studies, some scholars consider the historic caste-like social stratification among African communities to be a pre-Islam feature while some consider it derived from the Arab influence.\n\n"}
{"id": "14645882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14645882", "title": "Chawla", "text": "Chawla\n\nChawla is a surname of the Arora community in North India & Pakistan especially in Punjab region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36382798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36382798", "title": "Chebo people", "text": "Chebo people\n\nChebo or Chabo is an ethnic group of the Debub Mirab Shewa Zone and West Shewa Zone of the Oromia Region of south-west Ethiopia. The Chebo speak the Oromo language but originate from a mixture of the Gurage and Sidama ethnic groups. Like other Oromo groups, their religion is Monophysite Christianity, but their ancestral religious practices continue beneath this. \nThe livelihood of the Chebo-Inchini area of Oromia is described as enset (Ethiopian banana), barley, and cattle.\n\nOne possible explanation of the name Chebo is from the Chebe plant, \"Croton gratissimus\" (lavender croton), which is normally burned during \"Meskel\" damera celebrations. \n\nAnother possible explanation is the name of the area where the Chebo people live. Parts of the Debub Mirab Shewa Zone had been incorporated in Chebo and Gurage districts in the Shewa province, as it was called prior to 1995.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "928595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=928595", "title": "Crowd", "text": "Crowd\n\nA crowd is a large group of people that are gathered or considered together. A crowd may be definable through a common purpose or set of emotions, such as at a political rally, a sports event, or during looting (this is known as a psychological crowd), or may simply be made up of many people going about their business in a busy area. The term \"the crowd\" may sometimes refer to the lower orders of people in general. \n\nThe term \"crowd\" is sometimes defined in contrast to other group nouns for collections of humans or animals, such as aggregation, audience, group, mass, mob, populous, public, rabble and throng. Opinion researcher Vincent Price compares masses and crowds, saying that \"Crowds are defined by their shared emotional experiences, but masses are defined by their interpersonal isolation.\"\n\nIn human sociology, the term \"mobbed\" simply means \"extremely crowded\", as in a busy mall or shop. \"Mobbing\", carries a more negative connotation associated with bullying. In animal behaviour, mobbing is a technique where many individuals of one species \"gang up\" on a larger individual of another species to drive them away. Mobbing behaviour is often seen in birds.\n\nSocial aspects are concerned with the formation, management and control of crowds, both from the point of view of individuals and groups. Often crowd control is designed to persuade a crowd to align with a particular view (e.g., political rallies), or to contain groups to prevent damage or mob behaviour. Politically organised crowd control is usually conducted by law enforcement but on some occasions military forces are used for particularly large or dangerous crowds.\n\nPsychological aspects are concerned with the psychology of the crowd as a group and the psychology of those who allow their will and emotions to be informed by the crowd (both discussed more comprehensively under crowd psychology), and other individual responses to crowds, such as claustrophobia, agoraphobia and social anxiety. At a general level, crowd psychology is concerned with the behaviour and thought processes of individual crowd members and the crowd as a whole. Given the prevalence of crowd events, and the potential safety issues associated with such large gatherings of people, the topic is receiving increasing attention from agencies responsible for crowd management and also from governments.\n\nMany studies on crowds have given insights on how crowds respond to different situations. One 2009 report highlighted many observable behaviors of crowds, including evidence that crowds are able to make united decisions regarding their direction and speed of movement, even if only a few of its members have the information required to make such decisions. The degree to which informed members can affect the crowd depends on their position within the group, with those in the crowd's core likely to have a greater influence.\n\nGenerally, researchers in crowd psychology have focused on the negative aspects of crowds, but not all crowds are volatile or negative in nature. For example, in the beginning of the socialist movement crowds were asked to put on their Sunday dress and march silently down the street. A more-modern example involves the sit-ins during the Civil Rights Movement. Crowds can reflect and challenge the held ideologies of their sociocultural environment. They can also serve integrative social functions, creating temporary communities.\n\nThere is limited research into the types of crowd and crowd membership and there is no consensus as to the classification of types of crowds. Two recent scholars, Momboisse (1967) and Berlonghi (1995) focused upon purpose of existence to differentiate among crowds. Momboisse developed a system of four types: casual, conventional, expressive, and aggressive. Berlonghi classified crowds as spectator, demonstrator, or escaping, to correlate to the purpose for gathering.Another approach to classifying crowds is sociologist Herbert Blumer's system of emotional intensity. He distinguishes four types of crowds: casual, conventional, expressive, and acting. His system is dynamic in nature, presuming that a crowd changes its level of emotional intensity over time.\n\nCrowds can be active (mobs) or passive (audiences). Active crowds can be further divided into aggressive, escapist, acquisitive, or expressive mobs. Aggressive mobs are often violent and outwardly focused. Examples are football riots and the L.A. Riots of 1992. Escapist mobs are characterized by a large number of panicked people trying to get out of a dangerous situation. Acquisitive mobs occur when large numbers of people are fighting for limited resources. An expressive mob is any other large group of people gathering for an active purpose. Civil disobedience, rock concerts, and religious revivals all fall under this category.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46250566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46250566", "title": "Culture of Coimbatore", "text": "Culture of Coimbatore\n\nPopularly called as the \"Manchester of South India\", the culture of Coimbatore is based on Kongu Vellala Gounder's community.Distinctly different from that of any other city in India. Being a cosmopolitan city, the culture of the city reflects its diverse population which has resulted in a unique blend. Though it is generally considered a traditional city, Coimbatore is more diverse and cosmopolitan than other cities in Tamil Nadu. Traditional music, dance and all other art forms of Tamil Nadu are very popular in the city. One can find a unique blend of culture from traditional foods to fast foods, from ancient temple architecture to modern high-rises and from classical music and dance to the growing nightlife in the city. Coimbatore and its people have a reputation for entrepreneurship.\n\nThe city conducts its own music festival every year. Art, dance and music concerts are held annually during the months of September and December (Tamil calendar month – Margazhi). The heavy industrialisation of the city has also resulted in the growth of trade unions.\n\nThe city's population is predominantly Hindu, along with a small group of Muslim population. Christians, Sikhs and Jains are also present in small numbers. Coimbatore also has a large number of Telugus, Kannadigas , Malayalis, mainly from Palakkad and North Indians, mainly Gujaratis, who are engaged in trade and commerce. During the 1970s the city witnessed a population explosion as a result of migration fuelled by increased economic growth and job opportunities. Around 8% of the city's population lives in slums.\n\nThere are numerous temples in and around the city including the Perur Patteeswarar Temple, Konniamman temple, Thandu Mariamman temple, Vazhai Thottathu Ayyan temple, ISKCON Temple, Eachanari Vinayagar Temple, Karamadai temple, Marudamalai Murugan temple, Loga Nayaga Shani Eswaran shrine, Astamsa Varada Anjaneyar temple, Panchamuga Anjaneya temple and Dhyanalinga Yogic Temple. The Mariamman festivals, at the city’s numerous Amman temples, are major events in summer. The mosques on Oppanakara Street and Big Bazaar Street date back to the period of Hyder Ali. Christian missions date back to 1647 when permission was granted by the Nayak rulers to set up a small church in Karumathampatti . It was destroyed by Tipu Sultan’s army resulting in a new church in 1804. In 1886, Coimbatore was constituted as a diocese after bifurcating with Puducherry. Sikh Gurudwaras and Jain Temples are also present in Coimbatore.The Puliyakulam Vinayagar temple stands with the biggest lord Ganesha's statue in Asia.\n\nCoimbatore cuisine is predominantly south Indian with rice as its base. However, the population of Coimbatore is multi-cultural due to the influx of migrant population from various regions of the country. Most locals still retain their rural flavour, with many restaurants serving food over a banana leaf. North Indian, Chinese and continental cuisines are also available. Mysore pak (a sweet made from lentil flour and ghee), idly, dosa, Halwa (a sweet made of different ingredients like milk, wheat, rice).The Annapoorna Gowrishankar Hotels is a gem of this region known for its high quality vegetarian food and their Sambar ( The sambar for all its branches around Coimbatore are prepared in a single large batch and then delivered to the branches, thus the taste remains consistent). Biryani is also popular among the locals. Apart from this Coimbatore has a very active street food culture, thanks to the migratory North Indian population that settled down here a few generation ago, in fact a streetfood that is popular all over Tamil Nadu The Kaazhaan has its origins here in Coimbatore, it is usually prepared by simmering deep fried mushrooms( usually chopped mushroom) in a spicy broth, until it reaches a porridge like consistency and served sprinkled with chopped oinions and coriander leaves.\n\nKongu Tamil is the dialect of Tamil language that is spoken majorly in the city. It is originally known as \"Kangee\"` or \"Kongalam\" or \"Kongappechu\". The speciality of Kongu Tamil is the use of the alveolar ற - Tra/Dra (as in the English word track) instead of retroflex T/D (ட) of standard Tamil. For example, 'ennuDaya' (mine) of standard Tamil is pronounced enRa in the Kongu dialect. Additionally the use of guttural nasal (ங்) that sounds \"ng\" as in the English word Gang, is more prevalent in Kongu Tamil, leading to situations where the grammar of Kongu Tamil would not fit into the grammar of standard Tamil (as laid down in authoritative treatises like Tolkappiyam and Nannool). One of the examples is the use of ங் to end a word like வாங் \"vaang\", means 'come' expressed in a respectful tone, which in standard Tamil would be \"vaanga\". English is increasingly spoken by the educated class and other languages spoken in the city include Malayalam,Kannada, Telugu and Urdu.\n\nCoimbatore celebrates many festivals including local temple festivals. Thai Pongal, celebrated in the month of January, is the most important festival of and is celebrated over a period of five days. Pongal has been designated the \"State Festival\" for its unique celebration that is typical of Tamil Nadu. Tamil New Year signifying the beginning of the Tamil calendar usually falls in April and is celebrated widely with special poojas in temples. Being a cosmopolitan city, almost all major festivals like Deepavali, Eid and Christmas are celebrated here. Onam is also celebrated with much fanfare due to the large Malayali immigrant population.\n"}
{"id": "8053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8053", "title": "Demographics of Dominica", "text": "Demographics of Dominica\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Dominica, including population density, ethnicity, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nAccording to the preliminary 2011 census results Dominica has a population of 71,293. The population growth rate is very low, due primarily to emigration to more prosperous Caribbean Islands, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Canada. The estimated mid-year population of is ().\n\nStructure of the population (31.12.2006) (Estimates) :\n\nThe vast majority of Dominicans are of African descent (75% at the 2014 census). There is a significant mixed population (19%) at the 2014 census due to intermarriage, along with a small European origin minority (0.8%; descendants of French, British, and Irish colonists), East Indians (0.1%) groups, and there are small numbers of Lebanese/Syrians (0.1%) and Asians.\n\nDominica is the only Eastern Caribbean island that still has a population of pre-Columbian native Caribs (also known as Kalinago), who were exterminated, driven from neighbouring islands, or mixed with Africans and/or Europeans. According to the 2001 census there are only 2,001 Caribs remaining (2.9% of the total population). A considerable growth occurred since the 1991 census when 1,634 Caribs were counted (2.4% of the total population). \nThe Caribs live in eight villages on the east coast of Dominica. This special Carib Territory was granted by the British Crown in 1903.\nThe present number of Kalinago is estimated at 4% more than 3,000.\n\nEnglish is the official language and universally understood; however, because of historic French domination, Antillean Creole, a French-lexified creole language, is also widely spoken.\n\nAccording to the 2001 census, 91.2% percent of the population of Dominica is considered Christian, 1.6% has a non-Christian religion and 6.1% has no religion or did not state a religion (1.1%).\n\nRoughly two thirds of Christians are Roman Catholics (61.4% of the total population), a reflection of early French influence on the island, and one third are Protestant. The Evangelicals constitute the largest Protestant group, with 6.7% of the population. Seventh-day Adventists are the second largest group (6.1%). The next largest group are Pentecostals (5.6% of the population), followed by Baptists (4.1%). Other Christians include Methodists (3.7%), Church of God (1.2%), Jehovah's Witnesses (1.2%), Anglicanism (0.6%) and Brethren Christian (0.3%).\nDuring the past decades the number of Roman Catholics and Anglicans has decreased, while the number of other Protestants has increased, especially Evangelicals, Seventh-day Adventists, Pentecostals (5.6% of the population) and Baptists).\n\nThe number of non-Christians is small. These religious groups include the Rastafarian Movement (1.3% of the population), Hinduism (0.1%) and Muslims (0.2%).\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from The World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57214532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57214532", "title": "Ethnic conflict in Ghana", "text": "Ethnic conflict in Ghana\n\nEthnic conflict exists in every country and Ghana is just one of them. Ghana ranks 43rd in the World Peace Index. and as the most peaceful country in West Africa. \n\nThere have been conflicts such as the Konkomba-Nanumba conflict, which was fought because of trade dispute. This war is widely known in Ghana and even other African countries. Of all the ethnic groups, the Ashanti were known for the numerous wars they fought when Ghana was called the Gold Coast (British Colony). \"From 1806 until 1896, the Ashanti Kingdom was in a perpetual state of war involving expansion or defense of its domain\". \n\nThe Ashanti Empire were known for conquering many lands and claiming them. They conquered many lands because they possessed more power than other ethnic groups mainly because of their number and the vastness of their empire. They also fought with the British many times, but the most notable war being the Yaa Asantewaa war in which she led the Ashantis. \n\n"}
{"id": "315239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315239", "title": "First Nations", "text": "First Nations\n\nIn Canada, the First Nations () are the predominant indigenous peoples in Canada south of the Arctic Circle. Those in the Arctic area are distinct and known as Inuit. The Métis, another distinct ethnicity, developed after European contact and relations primarily between First Nations people and Europeans. There are 634 recognized First Nations governments or bands spread across Canada, roughly half of which are in the provinces of Ontario and British Columbia.\n\nUnder the Employment Equity Act, First Nations are a \"designated group\", along with women, visible minorities, and people with physical or mental disabilities. First Nations are not defined as a visible minority under the Act or by the criteria of Statistics Canada.\n\nNorth American indigenous peoples have cultures spanning thousands of years. Some of their oral traditions accurately describe historical events, such as the Cascadia earthquake of 1700 and the 18th-century Tseax Cone eruption. Written records began with the arrival of European explorers and colonists during the Age of Discovery, beginning in the late 15th century. European accounts by trappers, traders, explorers, and missionaries give important evidence of early contact culture. In addition, archeological and anthropological research, as well as linguistics, have helped scholars piece together an understanding of ancient cultures and historic peoples.\n\nAlthough not without conflict, Euro-Canadians' early interactions with First Nations, Métis, and Inuit populations were less combative compared to the often violent battles between colonists and native peoples in the United States. \n\nCollectively, \"First Nations\", \"Inuit\", and \"Métis\" peoples constitute \"Indigenous peoples in Canada,\" Indigenous peoples of the Americas, or \"first peoples.\" \"First Nation\" as a term became officially used beginning in 1980s to replace the term \"Indian band\" in referring to groups of Indians with common government and language. The term had came into common usage in the 1970s to avoid using the word \"Indian\", which some Canadians considered offensive. No legal definition of the term exists.\n\nSome indigenous peoples in Canada have also adopted the term \"First Nation\" to replace the word \"band \"in the formal name of their community. A band is a \"body of Indians (a) for whose use and benefit in common lands . . . have been set apart, (b) . . . moneys are held . . . or (c) declared . . . to be a band for the purposes of\" the \"Indian Act\" by the Canadian Crown.\n\nThe term Indian is a misnomer given to indigenous peoples of North America by European explorers who erroneously thought they had landed on the Indian subcontinent. The use of the term \"Native Americans\", which the US government and others have adopted, is not common in Canada. It refers more specifically to the Indigenous peoples residing within the boundaries of the United States. The parallel term \"Native Canadian\" is not commonly used, but \"Native\" (in English) and (in Canadian French; from the Greek , own, and , land) are. Under the Royal Proclamation of 1763, also known as the \"Indian \"Magna Carta,\"\" the Crown referred to indigenous peoples in British territory as tribes or nations. The term \"First Nations\" is capitalized. Bands and nations may have slightly different meanings.\n\nWithin Canada, \"First Nations\" has come into general use for indigenous peoples other than Inuit and Métis. Individuals using the term outside Canada include U.S. tribes within the Pacific Northwest, as well as supporters of the Cascadian independence movement. The singular, commonly used on culturally politicized reserves, is the term \"First Nations person\" (when gender-specific, \"First Nations man\" or \"First Nations woman\"). A more recent trend is for members of various nations to refer to themselves by their tribal or national identity only, e.g., \"I'm Haida\", or \"We're Kwantlens\", in recognition of the distinctive First Nations.\n\nFirst Nations peoples had settled and established trade routes across what is now Canada by 1,000 BC to 500 BC. Communities developed, each with its own culture, customs, and character. In the northwest were the Athapaskan-speaking peoples, Slavey, Tłı̨chǫ, Tutchone-speaking peoples, and Tlingit. Along the Pacific coast were the Haida, Salish, Kwakiutl, Nuu-chah-nulth, Nisga'a and Gitxsan. In the plains were the Blackfoot, Kainai, Sarcee and Northern Peigan. In the northern woodlands were the Cree and Chipewyan. Around the Great Lakes were the Anishinaabe, Algonquin, Iroquois and Wyandot. Along the Atlantic coast were the Beothuk, Maliseet, Innu, Abenaki and Micmac.\n\nThe Blackfoot Confederacies reside in the Great Plains of Montana and Canadian provinces of Alberta, British Columbia and Saskatchewan. The name \"Blackfoot\" came from the colour of the peoples' leather footwear, known as moccasins. They had dyed or painted the bottoms of their moccasins black. One account claimed that the Blackfoot Confederacies walked through the ashes of prairie fires, which in turn coloured the bottoms of their moccasins black. They had migrated onto the Great Plains and west from the upper Northeastern area. The Blackfoot started as Woodland Nations but as they made their way over to the Plains, they adapted to new ways of life and became accustomed to the land. They established themselves as Plains Indians in the late 18th century, earning themselves the name \"The Lords of the Plains\".\n\nThe Squamish history is a series of past events, both passed on through oral tradition and recent history, of the Squamish indigenous peoples of the Pacific Northwest Coast. Prior to colonization, they recorded their history through oral tradition as a way to transmit stories, law, and knowledge across generations. This was common among all the peoples. The writing system established in the 1970s used the Latin alphabet as a base. Knowledgeable elders had the responsibility to pass historical knowledge to the next generation. People lived and prospered for thousands of years until the Great Flood. In another story, after the Flood, they would repopulate from the villages of Schenks and Chekwelp, located at Gibsons. When the water lines receded, the first Squamish came to be. The first man, named Tseḵánchten, built his longhouse in the village, and later on another man named Xelálten, appeared on his longhouse roof and sent by the Creator, or in the Squamish language \"keke7nex siyam\". He called this man his brother. It was from these two men that the population began to rise and the Squamish spread back through their territory.\n\nThe Iroquois influence extended from northern New York into what are now southern Ontario and the Montreal area of modern Quebec. The Iroquois Confederacy is, from oral tradition, formed circa 1142. Adept at cultivating Three Sisters (maize/beans/squash), the Iroquois became powerful because of their confederacy. Gradually the Algonquians adopted agricultural practises enabling larger populations to be sustained.\n\nThe Assiniboine were close allies and trading partners of the Cree, engaging in wars against the Gros Ventres alongside them, and later fighting the Blackfeet. A Plains people, they went no further north than the North Saskatchewan River and purchased a great deal of European trade goods through Cree middlemen from the Hudson's Bay Company. The life style of this group was semi-nomadic, and they would follow the herds of bison during the warmer months. They traded with European traders, and worked with the Mandan, Hidatsa, and Arikara tribes.\n\nIn the earliest oral history, the Algonquins were from the Atlantic coast. Together with other Anicinàpek, they arrived at the \"First Stopping Place\" near Montreal. While the other Anicinàpe peoples continued their journey up the St. Lawrence River, the Algonquins settled along the \"Kitcisìpi\" (Ottawa River), an important highway for commerce, cultural exchange, and transportation from time immemorial. A distinct Algonquin identity, though, was not realized until after the dividing of the Anicinàpek at the \"Third Stopping Place\", estimated at about 2,000 years ago near present-day Detroit.\n\nAccording to their tradition, and from recordings in \"wiigwaasabak\" (birch bark scrolls), Ojibwe (an Algonquian-speaking people) came from the eastern areas of North America, or Turtle Island, and from along the east coast. They traded widely across the continent for thousands of years and knew of the canoe routes west and a land route to the west coast. According to the oral history, seven great \"miigis\" (radiant/iridescent) beings appeared to the peoples in the \"Waabanakiing\" to teach the peoples of the \"mide\" way of life. One of the seven great \"miigis\" beings was too spiritually powerful and killed the peoples in the \"Waabanakiing\" when the people were in its presence. The six great \"miigis\" beings remained to teach while the one returned into the ocean. The six great \"miigis\" beings then established \"doodem\" (clans) for the peoples in the east. Of these \"doodem\", the five original Anishinaabe \"doodem\" were the \"Wawaazisii\" (Bullhead), \"Baswenaazhi\" (Echo-maker, i.e., Crane), \"Aan'aawenh\" (Pintail Duck), \"Nooke\" (Tender, i.e., Bear) and \"Moozoonsii\" (Little Moose), then these six \"miigis\" beings returned into the ocean as well. If the seventh \"miigis\" being stayed, it would have established the Thunderbird \"doodem\".\n\nThe Nuu-chah-nulth are one of the Indigenous peoples of the Pacific Northwest Coast. The term 'Nuu-chah-nulth' is used to describe fifteen separate but related First Nations, such as the Tla-o-qui-aht First Nations, Ehattesaht First Nation and Hesquiaht First Nation whose traditional home is in the Pacific Northwest on the west coast of Vancouver Island. In pre-contact and early post-contact times, the number of nations was much greater, but smallpox and other consequences of contact resulted in the disappearance of groups, and the absorption of others into neighbouring groups. The Nuu-chah-nulth are relations of the Kwakwaka'wakw, the Haisla, and the Ditidaht. The Nuu-chah-nulth language is part of the Wakashan language group.\n\nA 1999 discovery of the body of Kwäday Dän Ts'ìnchi has provided archaeologists with significant information on indigenous tribal life prior to extensive European contact. Kwäday Dän Ts'ìnchi (meaning \"Long Ago Person Found\" in Southern Tutchone), or \"Canadian Ice Man\", is a naturally mummified body found in Tatshenshini-Alsek Provincial Park in British Columbia, by a group of hunters. Radiocarbon dating of artifacts found with the body placed the age of the find between 1450 AD and 1700 AD. Genetic testing has shown he was a member of the Champagne and Aishihik First Nations. Local clans are considering a memorial potlatch to honour Kwäday Dän Ts’ìnchi.\n\nAboriginal people in Canada interacted with Europeans as far back as 1000 AD, but prolonged contact came only after Europeans established permanent settlements in the 17th and 18th centuries. European written accounts noted friendliness on the part of the First Nations, who profited in trade with Europeans. Such trade strengthened the more organized political entities such as the Iroquois Confederation. The Aboriginal population is estimated to have been between 200,000 and two million in the late 15th century. The effect of European colonization was a 40 to 80 percent Aboriginal population decrease post-contact. This is attributed to various factors, including repeated outbreaks of European infectious diseases such as influenza, measles and smallpox (to which they had not developed immunity), inter-nation conflicts over the fur trade, conflicts with colonial authorities and settlers and loss of land and a subsequent loss of nation self-suffiency. For example, during the late 1630s, smallpox killed more than half of the Huron, who controlled most of the early fur trade in what became Canada. Reduced to fewer than 10,000 people, the Huron Wendat were attacked by the Iroquois, their traditional enemies. In the Maritimes, the Beothuk disappeared entirely.\n\nThere are reports of contact made before Christopher Columbus between the first peoples and those from other continents.\nEven in Columbus' time there was much speculation that other Europeans had made the trip in ancient or contemporary times; Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo y Valdés records accounts of these in his \"General y natural historia de las Indias\" of 1526, which includes biographical information on Columbus. Aboriginal first contact period is not well defined. The earliest accounts of contact occurred in the late 10th century, between the Beothuk and Norsemen. According to the Sagas of Icelanders, the first European to see what is now Canada was Bjarni Herjólfsson, who was blown off course en route from Iceland to Greenland in the summer of 985 or 986 CE.\nThe first European explorers and settlers of what is now Canada relied on the First Nations peoples, for resources and trade to sustain a living. The first written accounts of interaction show a predominantly Old world bias, labelling the indigenous peoples as \"savages,\" although the indigenous peoples were organized and self-sufficient. In the early days of contact, the First Nations and Inuit populations welcomed the Europeans, assisting them in living off the land and joining forces with the French and British in their various battles. It was not until the colonial and imperial forces of Britain and France established dominant settlements and, no longer needing the help of the First Nations people, began to break treaties and force them off the land that the antagonism between the two groups grew.\n\nThe Portuguese Crown claimed it had territorial rights in the area visited by Cabot. In 1493 Pope Alexander VI – assuming international jurisdiction – had divided lands discovered in America between Spain and Portugal. The next year, in the Treaty of Tordesillas, these two kingdoms decided to draw the dividing line running north–south, 370 leagues (from approximately depending on the league used) west of the Cape Verde Islands. Land to the west would be Spanish, to the east Portuguese. Given the uncertain geography of the day, this seemed to give the \"new founde isle\" to Portugal. On the 1502 Cantino map, Newfoundland appears on the Portuguese side of the line (as does Brazil). An expedition captured about 60 Aboriginal people as slaves who were said to \"resemble gypsies in colour, features, stature and aspect; are clothed in the skins of various animals ...They are very shy and gentle, but well formed in arms and legs and shoulders beyond description ...\" Some captives, sent by Gaspar Corte-Real, reached Portugal. The others drowned, with Gaspar, on the return voyage. Gaspar's brother, Miguel Corte-Real, went to look for him in 1502, but also failed to return. Scholars believe that Miguel Corte-Real carved inscriptions on the controversial Dighton Rock.\n\nIn 1604 King Henry IV of France granted Pierre Dugua, Sieur de Mons a fur-trade monopoly. Dugua led his first colonization expedition to an island located near to the mouth of the St. Croix River. Samuel de Champlain, his geographer, promptly carried out a major exploration of the northeastern coastline of what is now the United States. Under Samuel de Champlain, the Saint Croix settlement moved to Port Royal (today's Annapolis Royal, Nova Scotia), a new site across the Bay of Fundy, on the shore of the Annapolis Basin, an inlet in western Nova Scotia. Acadia became France's most successful colony to that time. The cancellation of Dugua's fur monopoly in 1607 ended the Port Royal settlement. Champlain persuaded First Nations to allow him to settle along the St. Lawrence, where in 1608 he would found France's first permanent colony in Canada at Quebec City. The colony of Acadia grew slowly, reaching a population of about 5,000 by 1713. New France had cod-fishery coastal communities, and farm economies supported communities along the St. Lawrence River. French \"voyageurs\" travelled deep into the hinterlands (of what is today Quebec, Ontario, and Manitoba, as well as what is now the American Midwest and the Mississippi Valley), trading with First Nations as they went – guns, gunpowder, cloth, knives, and kettles for beaver furs. The fur trade kept the interest in France's overseas colonies alive, yet only encouraged a small colonial population, as minimal labour was required. The trade also discouraged the development of agriculture, the surest foundation of a colony in the New World.\n\nThe Métis (from French \"métis\" – \"mixed\") are descendants of unions between Cree, Ojibwe, Algonquin, Saulteaux, Menominee, Mi'kmaq, Maliseet, and other First Nations in the 16th, 17th, 18th and 19th centuries and Europeans, mainly French. According to Indian and Northern Affairs Canada, the Métis were historically the children of French fur traders and Nehiyaw women or, from unions of English or Scottish traders and Northern Dene women (Anglo-Métis). The Métis spoke or still speak either Métis French or a mixed language called Michif. \"Michif\", \"Mechif\" or \"Métchif\" is a phonetic spelling of the Métis pronunciation of \"Métif\", a variant of \"Métis\". The Métis predominantly speak English, with French a strong second language, as well as numerous Aboriginal tongues. Métis French is best preserved in Canada, Michif in the United States, notably in the Turtle Mountain Indian Reservation of North Dakota, where Michif is the official language of the Métis that reside on this Chippewa reservation. The encouragement and use of Métis French and Michif is growing due to outreach within the provincial Métis councils after at least a generation of steep decline. Canada's Indian and Northern Affairs define Métis to be those persons of mixed First Nation and European ancestry.\n\nAllied with the French, the first nations of the Wabanaki Confederacy of Acadia fought six colonial wars against the British and their native allies (See the French and Indian Wars, Father Rale's War and Father Le Loutre's War). In the second war, Queen Anne's War, the British conquered Acadia (1710). The sixth and final colonial war between the nations of France and Great Britain (1754–1763), resulted in the French giving up their claims and the British claimed the lands of Canada.\n\nIn this final war, the Franco-Indian alliance brought together Americans, First Nations and the French, centred on the Great Lakes and the Illinois Country. The alliance involved French settlers on the one side, and on the other side were the Abenaki, Odawa, Menominee, Ho-Chunk (Winnebago), Mississaugas, Illiniwek, Huron-Petun, Potawatomi etc. It allowed the French and the Indians to form a haven in the middle-Ohio valley before the open conflict between the European powers erupted.\n\nIn the Royal Proclamation of 1763, the British recognized the treaty rights of the indigenous populations and resolved to only settle those areas purchased lawfully from the indigenous peoples. Treaties and land purchases were made in several cases by the British, but the lands of several indigenous nations remain unceded and/or unresolved.\n\nFirst Nations routinely captured slaves from neighbouring tribes. Sources report that the conditions under which First Nations slaves lived could be brutal, with the Makah tribe practicing death by starvation as punishment and Pacific coast tribes routinely performing ritualized killings of slaves as part of social ceremonies into the mid-1800s. Slave-owning tribes of the fishing societies, such as the Yurok and Haida lived along the coast from what is now Alaska to California. Fierce warrior indigenous slave-traders of the Pacific Northwest Coast raided as far south as California. Slavery was hereditary, the slaves and their descendants being considered prisoners of war. Some tribes in British Columbia continued to segregate and ostracize the descendants of slaves as late as the 1970s. Among Pacific Northwest tribes about a quarter of the population were slaves.\n\nThe citizens of New France received slaves as gifts from their allies among First Nations peoples. Slaves were prisoners taken in raids against the villages of the Fox nation, a tribe that was an ancient rival of the Miami people and their Algonquian allies.\nNative (or \"pani\", a corruption of Pawnee) slaves were much easier to obtain and thus more numerous than African slaves in New France, but were less valued. The average native slave died at 18, and the average African slave died at 25 (the average European could expect to live until the age of 35). By 1790 the abolition movement was gaining ground in Canada and the ill intent of slavery was evidenced by an incident involving a slave woman being violently abused by her slave owner on her way to being sold in the United States. The Act Against Slavery of 1793 legislated the gradual abolition of slavery: no slaves could be imported; slaves already in the province would remain enslaved until death, no new slaves could be brought into Upper Canada, and children born to female slaves would be slaves but must be freed at age 25. The Act remained in force until 1833 when the British Parliament's Slavery Abolition Act finally abolished slavery in all parts of the British Empire. Historian Marcel Trudel has documented 4,092 recorded slaves throughout Canadian history, of which 2,692 were Aboriginal people, owned by the French, and 1,400 blacks owned by the British, together owned by approximately 1,400 masters. Trudel also noted 31 marriages took place between French colonists and Aboriginal slaves.\n\nBritish agents worked to make the First Nations into military allies of the British, providing supplies, weapons, and encouragement. During the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783) most of the tribes supported the British. In 1779, the Americans launched a campaign to burn the villages of the Iroquois in New York State. The refugees fled to Fort Niagara and other British posts, and remained permanently in Canada. Although the British ceded the Old Northwest to the United States in the Treaty of Paris in 1783, it kept fortifications and trading posts in the region until 1795. The British then evacuated American territory, but operated trading posts in British territory, providing weapons and encouragement to tribes that were resisting American expansion into such areas as Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois and Wisconsin. Officially, the British agents discouraged any warlike activities or raids on American settlements, but the Americans became increasingly angered, and this became one of the causes of the War of 1812.\n\nIn the war, the great majority of First Nations supported the British, and many fought under the aegis of Tecumseh. But Tecumseh died in battle in 1813 and the Indian coalition collapsed. The British had long wished to create a neutral Indian state in the American Old Northwest, and made this demand as late as 1814 at the peace negotiations at Ghent. The Americans rejected the idea, the British dropped it, and Britain's Indian allies lost British support. In addition, the Indians were no longer able to gather furs in American territory. Abandoned by their powerful sponsor, Great Lakes-area natives ultimately assimilated into American society, migrated to the west or to Canada, or were relocated onto reservations in Michigan and Wisconsin. Historians have unanimously agreed that the Indians were the major losers in the War of 1812.\n\nLiving conditions for Indigenous people in the prairie regions deteriorated quickly. Between 1875 and 1885, settlers and hunters of European descent contributed to hunting the North American bison almost to extinction; the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway brought large numbers of European settlers west who encroached on Indigenous territory. European Canadians established governments, police forces, and courts of law with different foundations from indigenous practices. Various epidemics continued to devastate Indigenous communities. All of these factors had a profound effect on Indigenous people, particularly those from the plains who had relied heavily on bison for food and clothing. Most of those nations that agreed to treaties had negotiated for a guarantee of food and help to begin farming. Just as the bison disappeared (the last Canadian hunt was in 1879), Lieutenant-Governor Edgar Dewdney cut rations to indigenous people in an attempt to reduce government costs. Between 1880 and 1885, approximately 3,000 Indigenous people starved to death in the North-Western Territory/Northwest Territories.\n\nOffended by the concepts of the treaties, Cree chiefs resisted them. Big Bear refused to sign Treaty 6 until starvation among his people forced his hand in 1882. His attempts to unite Indigenous nations made progress. In 1884 the Métis (including the Anglo-Métis) asked Louis Riel to return from the United States, where he had fled after the Red River Rebellion, to appeal to the government on their behalf. The government gave a vague response. In March 1885, Riel, Gabriel Dumont, Honoré Jackson (a.k.a. Will Jackson), Crowfoot, Chief of the Blackfoot First Nation and Chief Poundmaker, who after the 1876 negotiations of Treaty 6 split off to form his band. Together, they set up the Provisional Government of Saskatchewan, believing that they could influence the federal government in the same way as they had in 1869. The North-West Rebellion of 1885 was a brief and unsuccessful uprising by the Métis people of the District of Saskatchewan under Louis Riel against the Dominion of Canada, which they believed had failed to address their concerns for the survival of their people. In 1884, 2,000 Cree from reserves met near Battleford to organise into a large, cohesive resistance. Discouraged by the lack of government response but encouraged by the efforts of the Métis at armed rebellion, Wandering Spirit and other young militant Cree attacked the small town of Frog Lake, killing Thomas Quinn, the hated Indian Agent and eight others. Although Big Bear actively opposed the attacks, he was charged and tried for treason and sentenced to three years in prison. After the Red River Rebellion of 1869–1870, Métis moved from Manitoba to the District of Saskatchewan, where they founded a settlement at Batoche on the South Saskatchewan River. \n\nIn Manitoba settlers from Ontario began to arrive. They pushed for land to be allotted in the square concession system of English Canada, rather than the seigneurial system of strips reaching back from a river which the Métis were familiar with in their French-Canadian culture. The buffalo were being hunted to extinction by the Hudson's Bay Company and other hunters, as for generations the Métis had depended on them as a chief source of food.\n\nThe history of colonization is complex, varied according to the time and place. France and Britain were the main colonial powers involved, though the United States also began to extend its territory at the expense of indigenous people as well.\n\nFrom the late 18th century, European Canadians encouraged First Nations to assimilate into the European-based culture, referred to as \"Canadian culture\". The assumption was that this was the \"correct\" culture because the Canadians of European descent saw themselves as dominant, and technologically, politically and culturally superior. There was resistance against this assimilation and many businesses denied European practices. The Tecumseh Wigwam of Toronto, for example, did not adhere to the widely practiced Lord's Day observance, making it a popular spot, especially on Sundays. These attempts reached a climax in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nFounded in the 19th century, the Canadian Indian residential school system was intended to force the assimilation of Aboriginal and First Nations people into European-Canadian society. The purpose of the schools, which separated children from their families, has been described by commentators as \"killing the Indian in the child.\"\nFunded under the Indian Act by Indian and Northern Affairs Canada, a branch of the federal government, the schools were run by churches of various denominations – about 60% by Roman Catholics, and 30% by the Anglican Church of Canada and the United Church of Canada, along with its pre-1925 predecessors, Presbyterian, Congregationalist and Methodist churches.\n\nThe attempt to force assimilation involved punishing children for speaking their own languages or practicing their own faiths, leading to allegations in the 20th century of cultural genocide and ethnocide. There was widespread physical and sexual abuse. Overcrowding, poor sanitation, and a lack of medical care led to high rates of tuberculosis, and death rates of up to 69%. Details of the mistreatment of students had been published numerous times throughout the 20th century, but following the closure of the schools in the 1960s, the work of indigenous activists and historians led to a change in the public perception of the residential school system, as well as official government apologies, and a (controversial) legal settlement.\n\nColonization had a significant impact on First Nations diet and health. According to the historian Mary-Ellen Kelm, \"inadequate reserve allocations, restrictions on the food fishery, overhunting, and over-trapping\" alienated First Nations from their traditional way of life, which undermined their physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual health.\n\nAs Canadian ideas of progress evolved around the start of the 20th century, the federal Indian policy was directed at removing Indigenous people from their communal lands and encouraging assimilation. Amendments to the Indian Act in 1905 and 1911 made it easier for the government to expropriate reserve lands from First Nations. The government sold nearly half of the Blackfoot reserve in Alberta to settlers.\n\nWhen the Kainai (Blood) Nation refused to accept the sale of their lands in 1916 and 1917, the Department of Indian Affairs held back funding necessary for farming until they relented. In British Columbia, the McKenna–McBride Royal Commission was created in 1912 to settle disputes over reserve lands in the province. The claims of Indigenous people were ignored, and the commission allocated new, less valuable lands (reserves) for First Nations.\n\nThose nations who managed to maintain their ownership of good lands often farmed successfully. Indigenous people living near the Cowichan and Fraser rivers, and those from Saskatchewan managed to produce good harvests. Since 1881, those First Nations people living in the prairie provinces required permits from Indian Agents to sell any of their produce. Later the government created a pass system in the old Northwest Territories that required indigenous people to seek written permission from an Indian Agent before leaving their reserves for any length of time. Indigenous people regularly defied those laws, as well as bans on Sun Dances and potlatches, in an attempt to practice their culture.\n\nThe or Natural Resources Acts was part of a shift acknowledging indigenous rights. It enabled provincial control of Crown land and allowed Provincial laws regulating game to apply to Indians, but it also ensured that \"Indians shall have the right ... of hunting, trapping and fishing game and fish for food at all seasons of the year on all unoccupied Crown lands and on any other lands to which the said Indians may have a right of access.\"\n\nMore than 6,000 First Nations, Inuit and Métis served with British forces during First World War and Second World War. A generation of young native men fought on the battlefields of Europe during the Great War and approximately 300 of them died there. When Canada declared war on Germany on September 10, 1939, the native community quickly responded to volunteer. Four years later, in May 1943, the government declared that, as British subjects, all able Indian men of military age could be called up for training and service in Canada or overseas.\n\nFollowing the end of the Second World War, laws concerning First Nations in Canada began to change, albeit slowly. The federal prohibition of potlatch and Sun Dance ceremonies ended in 1951. Provincial governments began to accept the right of Indigenous people to vote. In June 1956, section 9 of the Citizenship Act was amended to grant formal citizenship to Status Indians and Inuit, retroactively as of January 1947.\n\nIn 1960, First Nations people received the right to vote in federal elections without forfeiting their Indian status. By comparison, Native Americans in the United States had been allowed to vote since the 1920s.\n\nIn his 1969 White Paper, then-Minister of Indian Affairs, Jean Chrétien, proposed the abolition of the Indian Act of Canada, the rejection of Aboriginal land claims, and the assimilation of First Nations people into the Canadian population with the status of \"other ethnic minorities\" rather than as a distinct group.\n\nHarold Cardinal and the Indian Chiefs of Alberta responded with a document entitled \"Citizens Plus\" but commonly known as the \"Red Paper\". In it, they explained Status Indians' widespread opposition to Chrétien's proposal. Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau and the Liberals began to back away from the 1969 White Paper, particularly after the Calder case decision in 1973. After the Canadian Supreme Court recognized that indigenous rights and treaty rights were not extinguished, a process was begun to resolve land claims and treaty rights and is ongoing today.\n\nIn 1970, severe mercury poisoning, called Ontario Minamata disease, was discovered among Asubpeeschoseewagong First Nation and Wabaseemoong Independent Nations people, who lived near Dryden, Ontario. There was extensive mercury pollution caused by Dryden Chemicals Company's waste water effluent in the Wabigoon-English River system. Because local fish were no longer safe to eat, the Ontario provincial government closed the commercial fisheries run by the First Nation people and ordered them to stop eating local fish. Previously it had made up the majority of their diet. In addition to the acute mercury poisoning in northwestern Ontario, Aamjiwnaang First Nation people near Sarnia, Ontario, experienced a wide range of chemical effects, including severe mercury poisoning. They suffered low birth rates, skewed birth-gender ratio, and health effects among the population. This led to legislation and eventually the Indian Health Transfer Policy that provided a framework for the assumption of control of health services by First Nations people, and set forth a developmental approach to transfer centred on the concept of self-determination in health. Through this process, the decision to enter into transfer discussions with Health Canada rests with each community. Once involved in transfer, communities are able to take control of health programme responsibilities at a pace determined by their individual circumstances and health management capabilities.\n\nThe capacity, experience and relationships developed by First Nations as a result of health transfer was a factor that assisted the creation of the First Nations Health Authority in British Columbia.\n\nIn 1981, Elijah Harper, a Cree from Red Sucker Lake, Manitoba, became the first \"Treaty Indian\" in Manitoba to be elected as a member of the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba. In 1990, Harper achieved national fame by holding an eagle feather as he refused to accept the Meech Lake Accord, a constitutional amendment package negotiated to gain Quebec's acceptance of the Constitution Act, 1982, but also one that did not address any First Nations grievances. The accord was negotiated in 1987 without the input of Canada's Aboriginal peoples. The third, final constitutional conference on Aboriginal peoples was also unsuccessful. The Manitoba assembly was required to unanimously consent to a motion allowing it to hold a vote on the accord, because of a procedural rule. Twelve days before the ratification deadline for the Accord, Harper began a filibuster that prevented the assembly from ratifying the accord. Because Meech Lake failed in Manitoba, the proposed constitutional amendment failed. Harper also opposed the Charlottetown Accord in 1992, even though Assembly of First Nations Chief Ovide Mercredi supported it.\n\nAccording to the Indian Act, status Indian women who married men who were not status Indians lost their treaty status, and their children would not get status. However, in the reverse situation, if a status Indian man married a woman who was not a status Indian, the man would keep his status and his children would also receive treaty status. In the 1970s, the Indian Rights for Indian Women and Native Women's Association of Canada groups campaigned against this policy because it discriminated against women and failed to fulfill treaty promises. They successfully convinced the federal government to change the section of the act with the adoption of Bill C-31 on June 28, 1985. Women who had lost their status and children who had been excluded were then able to register and gain official Indian status. Despite these changes, status Indian women who married men who were not status Indians could pass their status on only one generation: their children would gain status, but (without a marriage to a full-status Indian) their grandchildren would not. A status Indian man who married a woman who was not a status Indian retained status as did his children, but his wife did not gain status, nor did his grandchildren.\n\nBill C-31 also gave elected bands the power to regulate who was allowed to reside on their reserves and to control development on their reserves. It abolished the concept of \"enfranchisement\" by which First Nations people could gain certain rights by renouncing their Indian status.\n\nIn 1991, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney created the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples chaired by René Dussault and Georges Erasmus. Their 1996 report proposed the creation of a government for (and by) the First Nations that would be responsible within its own jurisdiction, and with which the federal government would speak on a \"Nation-to-Nation\" basis. This proposal offered a far different way of doing politics than the traditional policy of assigning First Nations matters under the jurisdiction of the Indian and Northern Affairs, managed by one minister of the federal cabinet. The report also recommended providing the governments of the First Nations with up to $2 billion every year until 2010, in order to reduce the economic gap between the First Nations and the rest of the Canadian citizenry. The money would represent an increase of at least 50% to the budget of Indian and Northern Affairs. The report engaged First Nations leaders to think of ways to cope with the challenging issues their people were facing, so the First Nations could take their destiny into their own hands.\n\nThe federal government, then headed by Jean Chrétien, responded to the report a year later by officially presenting its apologies for the forced acculturation the federal government had imposed on the First Nations, and by offering an \"initial\" provision of $350 million.\n\nIn the spirit of the Eramus–Dussault commission, tripartite (federal, provincial, and First Nations) accords have been signed since the report was issued. Several political crises between different provincial governments and different bands of the First Nations also occurred in the late 20th century, notably the Oka Crisis, Ipperwash Crisis, Burnt Church Crisis, and the Gustafsen Lake standoff.\n\nIn 2001, the Quebec government, the federal government, and the Cree Nation signed \"La Paix des Braves\" (\"The Peace of the Braves\", a reference to the 1701 peace treaty between the French and the Iroquois League). The agreement allowed Hydro-Québec to exploit the province's hydroelectric resources in exchange for an allocation of $3.5 billion to be given to the government of the Cree Nation. Later, the Inuit of northern Quebec (Nunavik) joined in the agreement.\nIn 2005, the leaders of the First Nations, various provincial governments, and the federal government produced an agreement called the Kelowna Accord, which would have yielded $5 billion over 10 years, but the new federal government of Stephen Harper (2006) did not follow through on the working paper.\nFirst Nations, along with the Métis and the Inuit, have claimed to receive inadequate funding for education, and allege their rights have been overlooked. James Bartleman, Lieutenant Governor of Ontario, listed the encouragement of indigenous young people as one of his key priorities. During his term that began in 2002, he launched initiatives to promote literacy and bridge building. Bartleman himself is the first Aboriginal person to hold the lieutenant governor's position in Ontario.\n\nAs of 2006, 76 First Nations communities exist in boil-water advisory conditions.\nIn late 2005, the drinking water crisis of the Kashechewan First Nation received national media attention when \"E. coli\" was discovered in their water supply system, following two years of living under a boil-water advisory. The drinking water was supplied by a new treatment plant built in March 1998. The cause of the tainted water was a plugged chlorine injector that was not discovered by local operators, who were not qualified to be running the treatment plant. When officials arrived and fixed the problem, chlorine levels were around 1.7 mg/l, which was blamed for skin disorders such as impetigo and scabies. An investigation led by Health Canada revealed that the skin disorders were likely due to living in squalor. The evacuation of Kashechewan was largely viewed by Canadians as a cry for help for other underlying social and economic issues which Aboriginal people in Canada face.\n\nOn June 29, 2007, Canadian Aboriginal groups held countrywide protests aimed at ending First Nations poverty, dubbed the Aboriginal Day of Action. The demonstrations were largely peaceful, although groups disrupted transportation with blockades or bonfires; a stretch of the Highway 401 was shut down, as was the Canadian National Railway's line between Toronto and Montreal.\n\nThe Idle No More protest movement originated among the Aboriginals in Canada and their non-Aboriginal supporters in Canada, and to a lesser extent, internationally. It consisted of a number of political actions worldwide, inspired in part by the hunger strike of Attawapiskat Chief Theresa Spence and further coordinated via social media. A reaction to alleged abuses of indigenous treaty rights by the current federal government, the movement takes particular issue with the recent omnibus bill Bill C-45.\n\nThe relationship between the Canadian Crown and the First Nations, Inuit, and Métis peoples of Canada stretches back to the first interactions between European colonialists and North American indigenous people. Over centuries of interaction, treaties were established, and Canada's First Nations have, like the Māori and the Treaty of Waitangi in New Zealand, come to generally view these agreements as being between them and the Crown of Canada, and not the ever-changing governments.\n\nThe associations exist between the Aboriginal peoples of Canada and the reigning monarch of Canada; as was stated in the proposed First NationsFederal Crown Political Accord: \"cooperation will be a cornerstone for partnership between Canada and First Nations, wherein Canada is the short-form reference to Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Canada\". These relations are governed by the established treaties; the Supreme Court stated that treaties \"served to reconcile pre-existing Aboriginal sovereignty with assumed Crown sovereignty, and to define Aboriginal rights,\" and the First Nations saw these agreements as meant to last \"as long as the sun shines, grass grows and rivers flow\".\n\nAlthough taxes are not specifically addressed in the written terms of any treaties, assurances regarding taxation were clearly offered when at least some treaties were negotiated.\n\nThe various statutory exemptions from taxation are established under the current Indian Act, which reads:\n\nMany scholars believe these exemptions serve to oppress Aboriginal peoples by allowing conservative minded courts to impart their own (sometimes discriminatory) views into the Aboriginal taxation jurisprudence. As one professor wrote:\n\nSelf-government has given chiefs and their councils powers which combine those of a province, school board, health board and municipality. Councils are also largely self-regulating regarding utilities, environmental protection, natural resources, building codes, etc. There is concern that this wide-ranging authority, concentrated in a single council, might be a cause of the dysfunctional governments experienced by many First Nations.\n\nThe Assembly of First Nations (AFN) is a body of First Nations leaders in Canada. The aims of the organization are to protect the rights, treaty obligations, ceremonies, and claims of citizens of the First Nations in Canada.\n\nAfter the failures of the League of Indians in Canada in the Interwar period and the North American Indian Brotherhood in two decades following the Second World War, the Aboriginal peoples of Canada organised themselves once again in the early 1960s. The National Indian Council was created in 1961 to represent Indigenous people, including Treaty/Status Indians, non-status people, the Métis people, though not the Inuit. This organization also collapsed in 1968 as the three groups failed to act as one, so the non-status and Métis groups formed the Native Council of Canada and Treaty/Status groups formed the National Indian Brotherhood (NIB), an umbrella group for provincial and territorial First Nations organizations.\n\nNational Aboriginal Day recognizes the cultures and contributions of Aboriginal peoples of Canada. There are currently over 600 recognized First Nations governments or bands encompassing 1,172,790 people spread across Canada with distinctive Aboriginal cultures, languages, art, and music.\n\nToday, there are over thirty different languages spoken by indigenous people, most of which are spoken only in Canada. Many are in decline. Those with the most speakers include Anishinaabe and Cree (together totalling up to 150,000 speakers); Inuktitut with about 29,000 speakers in the Northwest Territories, Nunavut, Nunavik (Northern Quebec), and Nunatsiavut (Northern Labrador); and Mi'kmaq, with around 8,500 speakers, mostly in Eastern Canada. Many Aboriginal peoples have lost their native languages and often all but surviving elders speak English or French as their first language.\n\nTwo of Canada's territories give official status to native languages. In Nunavut, Inuktitut and Inuinnaqtun are official languages alongside English and French, and Inuktitut is a common vehicular language in government. In the Northwest Territories, the \"Official Languages Act\" declares that there are eleven different languages: Chipewyan, Cree, English, French, Gwich’in, Inuinnaqtun, Inuktitut, Inuvialuktun, North Slavey, South Slavey and Tłįchǫ. Besides English and French, these languages are not vehicular in government; official status entitles citizens to receive services in them on request and to deal with the government in them.\n\nFirst Nations were producing art for thousands of years before the arrival of European settler colonists and the eventual establishment of Canada as a nation state. Like the peoples who produced them, indigenous art traditions spanned territories across North America. Indigenous art traditions are organized by art historians according to cultural, linguistic or regional groups: Northwest Coast, Plateau, Plains, Eastern Woodlands, Subarctic, and Arctic.\n\nArt traditions vary enormously amongst and within these diverse groups. Indigenous art with a focus on portability and the body is distinguished from European traditions and its focus on architecture. Indigenous visual art may be used in conjunction with other arts. Shamans' masks and rattles are used ceremoniously in dance, storytelling and music.\nArtworks preserved in museum collections date from the period after European contact and show evidence of the creative adoption and adaptation of European trade goods such as metal and glass beads. During the 19th and the first half of the 20th century the Canadian government pursued an active policy of forced and cultural assimilation toward indigenous peoples. The Indian Act banned manifestations of the Sun Dance, the Potlatch, and works of art depicting them.\n\nIt was not until the 1950s and 1960s that indigenous artists such as Mungo Martin, Bill Reid and Norval Morrisseau began to publicly renew and re-invent indigenous art traditions. Currently there are indigenous artists practising in all media in Canada and two indigenous artists, Edward Poitras and Rebecca Belmore, have represented Canada at the Venice Biennale in 1995 and 2005 respectively.\n\nThe First Nations peoples of Canada comprise diverse ethnic groups, each with their own musical traditions. There are general similarities in the music, but is usually social (public) or ceremonial (private). Public, social music may be dance music accompanied by rattles and drums. Private, ceremonial music includes vocal songs with accompaniment on percussion, used to mark occasions like Midewiwin ceremonies and Sun Dances.\n\nTraditionally, Aboriginal peoples used the materials at hand to make their instruments for centuries before Europeans immigrated to Canada. First Nations people made gourds and animal horns into rattles, which were elaborately carved and beautifully painted. In woodland areas, they made horns of birch bark and drumsticks of carved antlers and wood. Traditional percussion instruments such as drums were generally made of carved wood and animal hides. These musical instruments provide the background for songs, and songs are the background for dances. Traditional First Nations people consider song and dance to be sacred. For years after Europeans came to Canada, First Nations people were forbidden to practice their ceremonies.\n\nIn the 20th century, the First Nations population of Canada increased tenfold. Between 1900 and 1950 the population grew only by 29% but after the 1960s the infant mortality level on reserves dropped and the population grew by 161%. Since the 1980s, the number of First Nations babies more than doubled and currently almost half of the First Nations population is under the age of 25. As a result, the First Nations population of Canada is expected to increase in the coming decades.\n\nThe 2006 census counted a total Aboriginal population of 1,172,790 (3.75%) which includes 698,025 North American Indians (2.23%).\n\nThere are distinct First Nations in Canada, originating across the country. Indian reserves, established in Canadian law by treaties such as Treaty 7, are the very limited contemporary lands of First Nations recognized by the non-indigenous governments. A few reserves exist within cities, such as the Opawikoscikan Reserve in Prince Albert, Wendake in Quebec City or Stony Plain 135 in the Edmonton Capital Region. There are more reserves in Canada than there are First Nations, as First Nations were ceded multiple reserves by treaty.\nFirst Nations can be grouped into cultural areas based on their ancestors' primary lifeway, or occupation, at the time of European contact. These culture areas correspond closely with physical and ecological regions of Canada.\n\nEthnographers commonly classify indigenous peoples of the Americas in the United States and Canada into ten geographical regions with shared cultural traits (called \"cultural areas\"). The Canadian (in whole or in part) regions are Arctic, Subarctic, Northeast Woodlands, Plains, and Plateau. See the individual article on each tribe, band society or First Nation.\n\nThe Indigenous peoples of the Pacific Northwest Coast communities centred around ocean and river fishing; in the interior of British Columbia, hunting and gathering and river fishing. In both of these areas, salmon was of chief importance. For the people of the plains, bison hunting was the primary activity. In the subarctic forest, other species such as the moose were more important. For peoples near the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River, shifting agriculture was practised, including the raising of maize, beans, and squash.\n\nToday, Aboriginal people work in a variety of occupations and live outside their ancestral homes. The traditional cultures of their ancestors, shaped by nature, still exert a strong influence on their culture, from spirituality to political attitudes.\n\nFirst Nations peoples face a number of problems to a greater degree than Canadians overall, some with living conditions comparable to developing countries like Haiti. Aboriginals have higher rates of unemployment, rates of incarceration, substance abuse, health problems, homelessness, fetal alcohol syndrome, lower levels of education and higher levels of poverty.\n\nCanada's federal residential school system began in the mid-1870s, building upon a patchwork of boarding schools established and operated by various Christian denominations. Member of Parliament for Assiniboia West, Nicholas Flood Davin, produced a report, known generally as the Davin Report, that recommended the establishment of a school system similar to that being created in the United States. One of its chief goals was to remove Aboriginal children from \"the influence of the wigwam\", which he claimed was stronger than that of existing day schools, and keep them instead \"constantly within the circle of civilized conditions\". While the history of the Indian Residential School system (IRS) is a checkered one, much criticism has been levelled at both the system and those who established and supported it. Neglect and poor nutrition were often what Aboriginal children experienced, particularly in the early decades of the system's operation. The stripping away of traditional native culture—sometimes referred to as \"cultural genocide\"—is another charge levelled at the residential schools. In many schools, students were not allowed to speak their Indigenous languages or practice any of their own customs, and thus lost their sense of identity, inevitably driving a cultural wedge between children and their family.\n\nBy 1920, attendance at some sort of school was mandatory for Aboriginal children in Canada. The Indian Act made education compulsory, and where there were no federal days schools—or, in later decades, a provincial public school—a residential school was the only choice. Enrolment statistics indicate that between 20% and 30% of Aboriginal children during the history of the IRS system attended a residential school for at least a year, and many were enrolled for ten years or more. In some cases, children could return home on weekends and holidays, but for those in schools established far away from remote communities, this was not possible.\n\nThe removal of children from their families and communities brought short and long term harm to many native communities. While many schools had infirmaries and provided medical care in later decades, abuse of various kinds and crowded conditions in the first decades of the IRS history led to poor health and even death for a percentage of those enrolled. It has been argued that the psychological and emotional trauma resulting from both the abuse and the removal of the children from their families and culture has resulted in substance abuse, greater domestic violence, unemployability, and increased rates of suicide. In many cases, children leaving residential schools found themselves at an intersection of cultures, where they were no longer comfortable within their own cultures, yet not accepted into mainstream Canadian culture. Former students are now routinely referred to as \"survivors\".\n\nNot all Aboriginal children attended residential schools. During the period in which the schools operated, more than a third of indigenous children attended federal day schools, and about a third received no schooling at all. It is however the residential school system that receives much of the blame for the various problems and challenges facing Canada's indigenous people today. During the years in which the residential schools operated, they were regarded by most Canadians as a sensible and beneficial solution to native education, and in some cases, Aboriginal communities specifically requested that a residential school be built. When the system began to closing down in the 1960s, a significant number of communities asked that their school remain open.\n\nThe last Canadian residential school to close was Gordon Indian Residential School in Saskatchewan, founded in 1889, and closed in 1996.\n\nThe Christian denominations that operated the schools on behalf of the federal government have expressed regret and issued apologies for their part in a system that harmed many indigenous children. In 2008, the government issued an official apology to the students who were forced to attend the residential schools and their families.\n\nIn June 2015, the federally-established Truth and Reconciliation Commission, charged with investigating and reporting on the residential school system, issued its summary report, and in December of the same year, its final report. Chief Commissioner, Judge Murray Sinclair, has publicly declared the residential school system a deliberate act of cultural genocide against First Nations peoples. In its report, the commission submitted 94 recommendations to the Canadian government, recommendations which, if implemented, would substantially improve indigenous race relations, increase quality of life for survivors and extended families, and help undo the damage caused by residential schools. While the Liberal government, under Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, has committed itself to improving the lives of Canada's indigenous people, and specifically to implementing the TRC recommendations, some of those recommendations may be beyond the power of the Canadian government. The countless research documents assembled by the TRC will be archived in a special repository at the University of Manitoba.\n\nThe income of women with status living off-reserve was on average $13,870 a year, according to a 1996 Canadian census. This is about $5500 less than non-Indigenous women, such as Inuit and Métis women,which recorded slightly higher average annual incomes; regardless of the small discrepancy, all of which are substantially less than Statistics Canada’s estimated amount of which an individual living in a large Canadian city would require to meet their needs. It is not unlikely for Aboriginal women living in poverty to not only tend to their own needs, but often tend to the needs of their elderly parents, care for loved ones in ill-health, as well as raising children; all of which is often supported only on a single income. It is believed that homelessness and inadequate shelter are widespread problems facing Aboriginal families, in all settings.\n\nA paramount conclusion by the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples is that the repeated assaults on the culture and collective identity of the Aboriginal people has resulted in a weakened foundation of Aboriginal society and has contributed to the alienation that inevitably drives some to self-destructive and antisocial behaviour. The social problems among Aboriginal people are, in large measure, a legacy of history.\n\nAboriginals are also more likely to be the victims of crime. This is particularly true in the younger population (aged 15–34), where acts of violence are two and a half times more likely to occur than in the older population. Domestic violence and sexual abuse against children is more prevalent in the Aboriginal population with sexual abuse affecting 25–50% of Aboriginal female children versus 20–25% of female children in the general population. Children who come from homes with a history of violence are at a greater risk of becoming the perpetrators of violence later in life. This is especially true of males.\n\nAs of 2007, 17% of incarcerated individuals in Canada were of Aboriginal descent, despite representing only 2.7% of the general population. This is a sixfold increase in rates of incarceration within the Aboriginal population as opposed to the general Canadian population. There are many reasons for the over-representation of Aboriginals within the Canadian justice system. Lack of education, poverty, unemployment and abuse all lead to higher crime rates. Also, statistically, Aboriginals have a greater chance of conviction and subsequently, incarceration once convicted. They are also much less likely to receive parole during their sentence.\n\nThe Canadian federal government is responsible for health and social services on the reserve and in Inuit communities, while the provincial and territorial governments provide services elsewhere. The divide between each level of government has led to a gap in services for Aboriginal people living off-reserve and in Canadian towns and cities. Although Aboriginal people living off-reserve have access to the programs and services designed for the general population, these programs and services do not address the specific needs of Aboriginal people, nor is it delivered in a culturally appropriate way. It has not been until recently that the Canadian federal government had to increase recognition to the needs for programs and services for Aboriginal people in predominantly non-Aboriginal communities. It is however funding that lags the growth of urban Aboriginal populations and the uncoordinated delivery of services through various government departments would also pose as a barrier. The federal Interlocutor for Métis and Non-Status Indians pointed out that in 2003 almost 90 percent of the funding for programs designed for Aboriginal peoples is spent on reserves, while off-reserve programs for Aboriginal people are delivered through just 22 federal departments, as well as other provincial and territorial agencies. The federal subcommittee on Indigenous child welfare described a \"jurisdictional web\" in which there is little to no coordination with or between municipal, provincial and federal levels of government.\n\nThe health care services available to Aboriginal people is rarely delivered in a culturally sensitive approach. It is the constant cast of \"the other\" by the settler Canadian population that contaminates the delivery of such necessary services to Aboriginal peoples. It was argued by Ontario finance minister Jim Flaherty in 1992 that the Canadian government could boost health-care funding for \"real people in real towns\" by cutting the bureaucracy that serves only Aboriginal peoples. These types of statements, especially made by people often heard by a greater audience, are said to have detrimental and influential effects on the overall attitudes of settler population folks, as well as Aboriginal peoples.\n\nThere are marked differences between the epidemiology of diabetes in First Nation population compared to the general population. Reasons for the different rate of Type 2 Diabetes between First Nation and the general population include a complex combination of environmental (lifestyle, diet, poverty) and genetic and biological factors (e.g. thrifty genotype hypothesis, thrifty phenotype) – though to what extent each factor plays a role is still not clear.<ref name=\"10.1503/cmaj.090846\">Dyck R, Osgood N, Lin TH, Gao A, and Stang MR (2010) Epidemiology of diabetes mellitus among First Nations and non-First Nations adults. Canadian Medical Association Journal 182:249–256; published ahead of print January 18, 2010, doi:10.1503/cmaj.090846</ref>\n\nThe Aboriginal population in Canada (First Nations, Inuit and Métis) have a significantly higher prevalence rate of diabetes than the non-Aboriginal population. Age-standardized rates show that the prevalence of diabetes among First Nations individuals living on-reserve is 17.2%; First Nations individuals living off-reserve is 10.3%; Métis individuals 7.3%; and non-Aboriginal peoples at 5.0%. It is important to note that Aboriginal individuals are generally diagnosed at a younger age than non-Aboriginal individuals, and Aboriginal females experience higher rates of gestational diabetes than non-Aboriginal females. The complications and prevalence of diabetes are seen among the Aboriginal population more often than non-Aboriginal population. These may be attributed to the socio-cultural, biological, environmental and lifestyle changes seen in the First Nations, Inuit, and Métis populations, which have been most especially prevalent in the last half century, all of which contributing significantly to the increased rates of diabetes and the complications associated among the Aboriginal population.\n\nLife expectancy at birth is significantly lower for First Nations babies than for babies in the Canadian population as a whole. , Indian and Northern Affairs Canada estimates First Nations life expectancy to be 8.1 years shorter for males and 5.5 years shorter for females. Where females in the general population had a life expectancy at birth of 82 years, First Nations females had a life expectancy of 76 years. In males the life expectancy for First Nations individuals was 69 years as opposed to 77 in the general population. The reasons behind the lower life expectancy for First Nations individuals are varied and complex; however, social determinants of health are thought to play a large part.\n\nOverall, First Nations individuals have some of the highest rates of suicide globally. Suicide rates are more than twice the sex-specific rate and also three times the age-specific rates of non-Aboriginal Canadians. Residential Aboriginals between ages 10 and 29 show an elevated suicide risk as compared to non-residential Aboriginals by 5–6 times. One theory for the increased incidences of suicide within Aboriginal populations as compared to the general Canadian population is called acculturation stress which results from the intersection of multiple cultures within one's life. This leads to differing expectations and cultural clashes within the community, the family and the individual. At the community level, a general economic disadvantage is seen, exacerbated by unemployment and low education levels, leading to poverty, political disempowerment and community disorganization. The family suffers through a loss of tradition as they attempt to assimilate into mainstream Canadian culture. These lead to low self-esteem in the individual as First Nations culture and tradition are marginalized affecting one's sense of self-identity. These factors combine to create a world where First Nations individuals feel they cannot identify completely as Aboriginal, nor can they fully identify as mainstream Canadians. When that balance cannot be found, many (particularly youths) turn to suicide as a way out.\n\nApproximately 400 First Nation communities in Canada have had, and continue to have serious problems with the quality of their drinking water. The residents of Neskantaga First Nation in Ontario have been forced to boil their water for the past 20 years to make it safe. The newly elected Prime Minister Justin Trudeau promised to solve the drinking water problem within five years, by investing $1.8 billion.\n\nAcross Canada, there has been a large number of missing and murdered women of Aboriginal descent since 1980. 16% of female murder victims and 12% of missing women have been Aboriginal, while demographically they comprise only 4% of the overall female population. This amounts to almost 1,200 Aboriginal females either missing or murdered in just over 30 years.\n\nIn 2014 the RCMP (Royal Canadian Mounted Police) released Missing and Murdered Aboriginal Women: A National Operational Review. This publication documents the official findings of this demographic as well as advises for future change. It finds that there are 164 Aboriginal women still missing and 1,017 murdered, making for a total of 1,181. \"There are 225 unsolved cases of either missing or murdered Aboriginal females: 105 missing for more than 30 days as of November 4, 2013, whose cause of disappearance was categorized as 'unknown' or 'foul play suspected' and 120 unsolved homicides between 1980 and 2012.\" Indigenous women in Canada are overrepresented among the missing and murdered females in Canada. Additionally, there are shared characteristics among these cases, most of the murders were committed by men and were someone the victim knew, either a partner or an acquaintance. \"Aboriginal women between the ages of 25 and 44 are 5 times more likely than other women of the same age to die as a result of violence\" These statistics portray the severity and prevalence of violence against indigenous women in Canada.\n\nSelf-governance and preservation of indigenous territories become increasingly difficult as natural resources continue to be exploited by foreign companies. Projects such as \"mining, logging, hydroelectric construction, large-scale export oriented agribusiness or oil exploration\" are usually coupled with environmental degradation and occasionally violence and militarization.\" Many scholars go so far as to link the proliferation of global neoliberalism with a rise in violence. Women's concerns are nearly always pushed aside, to be addressed later; their safety is therefore often compromised and not deemed priority. Privatization of public services and reduction in the universality of health care produces negative repercussions for those of lower socioeconomic status in rural locations; these downsides are magnified for female Aboriginals.\n\nApproximately 2,500 aboriginal people were murdered in Canada between 1982 and 2011, out of 15,000 murders in Canada overall. Of the 2,500 murdered aboriginal Canadians, fully 71 per cent — 1,750 — were male.\n\nAccording to summaries of seven consultation sessions posted to a government website, the desire to dedicate some attention to violence against indigenous men and boys has come up at four of the meetings.\n\nThese calls to extend the scope of the inquiry to include missing and murdered aboriginal people of all genders have met with resistance and been criticized as detracting from the current focus on the issue of missing and murdered aboriginal women. Barbara Bailey, who was on the UN team that visited Canada in 2013 to investigate the violence, has said, \"I think to detract now would really be a tragedy. Let’s fix that problem first and then we can begin to see what else is out there.\"\n\nSpeaking on the matter, Minister of Indigenous Affairs, Carolyn Bennett has said, \"Our mandate now is to get to the bottom of the tragedy of missing and murdered indigenous women and girls in Canada\", citing sexism as being of specific concern. Dawn Lavell-Harvard, the president of the Native Women's Association of Canada, has also weighed in on the issue by saying, \"Absolutely [men] deserve the same amount of attention, just not necessarily in the same forum\", neither that forum nor an equal level of attention have yet to materialize.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13496752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13496752", "title": "Gaza people", "text": "Gaza people\n\nThe Gaza were Nguni people who left what is now South Africa in the early 19th century and settled in Gazaland in what is now Southern Mozambique. An early leader was Soshangane (\"circa\" 1828), under whom they migrated somewhat further North to the Save River area.\n"}
{"id": "21756598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21756598", "title": "Hashmatullah Barakzai", "text": "Hashmatullah Barakzai\n\nHashmatullah Barakzai (, born August 26, 1987) is an Afghan football player who plays for Shaheen Asmayee F.C. in the Afghan Premier League.\n\nTop Scorer of Kabul Premier League: 2007, 2008.\n\nTop scorer of Afghan Premier League with 7 Goals in 6 caps for Shaheen Asmayee F.C. and best player of the tournament in 2013/14 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "45402754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45402754", "title": "Household Finance and Consumption Survey (Ireland)", "text": "Household Finance and Consumption Survey (Ireland)\n\nThe Household Finance and Consumption Survey (HFCS) is a statistical survey conducted by the Central Statistics Office (CSO) on behalf of the Central Bank of Ireland as part of the European Central Bank (ECB) Household Finance and Consumption Network (HFCN).\n\nThe HFCS is designed to collect household-level data on households’ finances and consumption, and is required by all Eurozone countries to facilitate comparable data analysis for the Euro area as a whole.\n\nThe 2013 HFCS study was the first conducted in Ireland, carried out between March and September 2013 with 5,419 respondent households.\n\nResults of the 2013 study were released in January 2015 by the Central Statistics Office.\n\nSurvey data is available on the CSO website in PDF format.\n\nThe 2013 study sample size consisted of 5,419 respondent households.\n\nThe survey collected a range of household information from the adults taking the survey, including the following household characteristics at micro level:\n\n\nThe HFCS is designed to find out more about household finance and consumption in Ireland.\n\nHFCS aims to collect information to help policy-makers respond to a variety of questions concerning:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2445029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2445029", "title": "Ida'an", "text": "Ida'an\n\nThe Ida'an (Idahan or Eraan) people are an ethnic group of Borneo, residing primarily in the Lahad Datu districts on the east coast of Sabah, Malaysia. Their current population is estimated to be around 6,000 (1987 est), but it appears that they once inhabited a much larger area along the east Sabah coast than present. For centuries, the Ida’an have owned exclusive rights to the collection of edible bird's nests in the limestone caves of the region, notably the Madai Caves. Most Ida'an are Muslim, but a small sub-group called the Bega'ak (Dusun Bagahak) (population 1,500 in 1987) have been converted to Christianity recently, but some of them remains animist.\n\n"}
{"id": "39133750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39133750", "title": "InsideClimate News", "text": "InsideClimate News\n\nInsideClimate News is a non-profit and non-partisan news organization, focusing on environmental journalism. The publication writes that it \"covers clean energy, carbon energy, nuclear energy and environmental science—plus the territory in between where law, policy and public opinion are shaped.\" \n\nEstablished in 2007, the Brooklyn, New York-based website covers environmental issues. It won the 2013 Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting for its coverage of the Kalamazoo River oil spill.\n\nThe website was co-founded in 2007 by publisher David Sassoon and executive editor Stacy Feldman. Originally called SolveClimate News, it adopted its current name \"to counter the perception that it was an environmental advocacy organization.\" As a non-profit journalism outlet, \"InsideClimate News\"s model is similar to that of ProPublica and the Center for Investigative Reporting, which have similarly gained recognition. Like the other two organizations, \"InsideClimate News\" publishes its content for free on the Web, collaborates with for-profit news organizations that republish some of the nonprofit's work with credit, and aims \"to tackle topics that bigger, better-known news organizations are not equipped or inclined to do.\"\n\nAs of February 2018, InsideClimate News had a staff of 18, including 7 fulltime reporters.\n\nThree \"InsideClimate News\" reporters—Elizabeth McGowan, Lisa Song, and David Hasemyer—won the 2013 Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting for their series of \"rigorous reports\" on the Kalamazoo River oil spill in Michigan, in which an Enbridge oil pipeline spill led to the costliest onshore oil spill in American history. The Pulitzer citation praised the reporters for exporting the aftermath of the 2010-2012 oil spill and \"flawed regulation of the nation's oil pipelines, focusing on potential ecological dangers posed by diluted bitumen (or 'dilbit'), a controversial form of oil.\" \n\nIn April 2016, \"InsideClimate News\" was named a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service, for the 2015 \"Exxon: The Road Not Taken\" series. \"InsideClimate News\" was awarded a 2015 Sigma Delta Chi Award for excellence in journalism by the Society of Professional Journalists for the informational graphics in the \"Exxon: The Road Not Taken\" series, which \"provide a visual timeline of Exxon's views and efforts on climate change since the 1970s, and evidence of its uncertainty campaigns in the 1990s and 2000s.\" The White House Correspondents Association awarded \"InsideClimate News\" a share in the 2016 Edgar A. Poe Award, which annually honors \"excellence in news coverage of subjects and events of significant national or regional importance, written with fairness and objectivity,\" for the \"Exxon: The Road Not Taken\" series. \n\n"}
{"id": "58304559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58304559", "title": "J. P. Boulee", "text": "J. P. Boulee\n\nJean-Paul \"J. P.\" Boulee (born 1971) is an American lawyer from Georgia; he currently serves as a Judge of the DeKalb County Georgia Superior Court and is a nominee to be a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia.\n\nBoulee earned his Bachelor of Arts, \"magna cum laude\", from Washington and Lee University, where he participated in Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps and was the Distinguished Military Graduate, and his Juris Doctor, \"cum laude\", from the University of Georgia School of Law.\n\nUpon graduation from law school, Boulee served as a law clerk to Judge Orinda Dale Evans of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. Boulee then served as a Captain in the United States Army Judge Advocate General's Corps, where he tried dozens of cases as both a prosecutor and defense attorney.\n\nBoulee then became a partner in the Atlanta office of Jones Day, where he was a member of the Corporate Criminal Investigations and Business and Tort Litigation practice groups, and worked there until becoming a state judge.\n\nBoulee serves as a Judge of the Dekalb County Superior Court, where he founded the DeKalb County Veterans Treatment Court and is a member of the State Bar of Georgia’s Judicial Procedure and Administration/Uniform Rules Committee. He was appointed to the court on May 12, 2015, by Governor Nathan Deal; he replaced Judge Eleanor Louise Ross who was appointed to the federal district court.\n\nOn August 27, 2018 President Trump announced his intent to nominate Boulee to serve as a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. Upon the announcement of his nomination, both Georgia Senators Johnny Isakson and David Perdue voiced their support. On August 28, 2018, his nomination was sent to the Senate. He was nominated to the seat vacated by Judge William S. Duffey Jr., who retired on July 1, 2018. His nomination is currently pending before the Senate Judiciary Committee. On November 13, 2018 a hearing on his nomination was held before the Senate Judiciary Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "27436343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27436343", "title": "Jamshed Burki", "text": "Jamshed Burki\n\nJamshed Burki was a popular Political Agent in the Khyber Agency and North-West Frontier Province Home Secretary in the Home and Tribal Affairs Department. He started his career in the Civil Service after retiring from the Pakistan Army as a Captain. His first posting was as Commissioner of Swat and he eventually became the Interior Secretary Gov of Pakistan Interior Minister of Pakistan and was responsible for the Hostage Release from the Afghan Embassy. As Interior Secretary he oversaw Operation Clean-up in Karachi which was launched to control the MQM Crime wave. He was also the Secretary Islamabad Club Islamabad 1990-1993.\n\nUpon retirement he has been actively involved in Pakistan's affairs via the Ex-Servicmen's association who publicly came out against the rule of military dictator Pervez Musharraf. \n\nHe has been involved in Pakistan-Afghanistan Peace Jirga to help calm the situation down in the Tribal Areas. \n\nHe is the brother of Javed Burki and Cousin of Majid Khan and Imran Khan, the current founder/leader of the Pakistan Tehrik-i-Insaf (PTI) political party. He has one son, who resides in Saudi Arabia, and is a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) by profession.\n"}
{"id": "18207668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18207668", "title": "John Antoon II", "text": "John Antoon II\n\nJohn Antoon II (born May 16, 1946) is an American lawyer and Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida.\n\nAntoon was born on May 16, 1946 in Bakersfield, California. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Florida Southern College in 1968, his Juris Doctor from Florida State University College of Law in 1971, his Master of Science from Florida Institute of Technology in 1993, and his Master of Laws from the University of Virginia School of Law in 2001.\n\nAntoon was a prosecutor for the City of Cocoa, Florida from 1971 to 1972 and was in private practice from 1971 to 1984. He was an associate with Gleason, Walker, Pearson, and Shreve (1971) and as a partner with Shreve, Antoon, and Clifton (1972–1974), Antoon and Clifton, P.A. (1974–1976), and Stromire, Westman, Lintz, Baugh, McKinley, and Antoon, P.A. (1976–1984). He served as an assistant public defender for the Eighteenth Judicial Circuit of Florida from 1972 to 1976 and a circuit judge of the Eighteenth Circuit from 1985 to 1995. Antoon served as a judge on the Florida Fifth District Court of Appeal from 1995 to 2000.\n\nPresident Bill Clinton nominated Antoon to the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida on February 9, 2000, to the seat vacated by G. Kendall Sharp. Confirmed by the Senate on May 24, 2000, he received commission on May 31, 2000. He took senior status on June 3, 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35247523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35247523", "title": "Koke language", "text": "Koke language\n\nKoke is an Adamawa language of Chad.\n"}
{"id": "4955678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4955678", "title": "Kresh people", "text": "Kresh people\n\nKreish is the name of an ethnic minority in Sudan and the Central African Republic, which numbers in the tens of thousands. The Kreish speak various Kresh languages of the Nilo-Saharan phylum. \n\n"}
{"id": "15735312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15735312", "title": "Languages of Bhutan", "text": "Languages of Bhutan\n\nThere are two dozen languages of Bhutan, all members of the Tibeto-Burman language family except for Nepali, which is an Indo-Aryan language, and Bhutanese Sign Language. Dzongkha, the national language, is the only language with a native literary tradition in Bhutan, though Lepcha and Nepali are literary languages in other countries. Other non-Bhutanese minority languages are also spoken along Bhutan's borders and among the primarily Nepali-speaking Lhotshampa community in South and East Bhutan.\n\nThe Central Bodish languages are a group of related Tibetic languages descended from Old Tibetan (\"Chöke\"). Most Bhutanese varieties of Central Bodish languages are of the Southern subgroup. At least six of the nineteen languages and dialects of Bhutan are Central Bodish languages. \n\nDzongkha is a Central Bodish language with approximately 160,000 native speakers as of 2006. It is the dominant language in Western Bhutan, where most native speakers are found. It was declared the national language of Bhutan in 1971. Dzongkha study is mandatory in schools, and the majority of the population speaks it as a second language. It is the predominant language of government and education. The Chocangaca language, a \"sister language\" to Dzongkha, is spoken in the Kurichu Valley of Eastern Bhutan by about 20,000 people.\n\nThe Lakha (8,000 speakers) and Brokkat languages (300 speakers) in Central Bhutan, as well as the Brokpa language (5,000 speakers) in far Eastern Bhutan, are also grouped by Van Driem (1993) into Central Bodish. These languages are remnants of what were originally pastoral yakherd communities.\n\nThe Laya dialect, closely related to Dzongkha, is spoken near the northwestern border with Tibet by some 1,100 Layaps. Layaps are an indigenous nomadic and semi-nomadic people who traditionally herd yaks and dzos. Dzongkha speakers enjoy a limited mutual intelligibility, mostly in basic vocabulary and grammar.\n\nKhams Tibetan is spoken by about 1,000 people in two enclaves in Eastern Bhutan, also the descendants of pastoral yakherding communities. Although it also is a by all accounts a Tibetic language, its exact subgrouping is uncertain.\n\nEight of the languages of Bhutan are East Bodish languages, not members of the closely related Tibetic group but still descended from Old Tibetan or a close kin.\n\nThe Bumthang language, or \"Bumthangkha\", is the dominant language in Central Bhutan. It has approximately 30,000 speakers. The Kheng and Kurtöp languages are closely related to Bumthang. They have 40,000 and 10,000 speakers, respectively. \n\nThe Dzala language, or \"Dzalakha\", has about 15,000 speakers. The Nyen language, also called \"Henkha\" or \"Mangdebikha\", and the 'Ole language (also called the \"Black Mountain language\" or \"Mönkha\") are spoken in the Black Mountains of Central Bhutan by about 10,000 and 1,000 speakers, respectively. Van Driem (1993) describes 'Ole as the remnant of the primordial population of the Black Mountains before the southward expansion of the ancient East Bodish tribes.\n\nThe Dakpa (\"Dakpakha\") and Chali (\"Chalikha\") languages are each spoken by about 1,000 people in Eastern Bhutan.\n\nOther Tibeto-Burman languages are spoken in Bhutan. These languages are more distantly related to the Bodish languages, and are not necessarily members of any common subgroup.\n\nThe Tshangla language, a subfamily of its own of the Bodish languages, has approximately 138,000 speakers. It is the mother tongue of the Sharchops. It is the dominant language in Eastern Bhutan and was formerly spoken as a \"lingua franca\" in the region.\n\nThe Gongduk language is an endangered language that has approximately 1,000 speakers in isolated villages along the Kuri Chhu river in Eastern Bhutan. It appears to be the sole representative of a unique branch of the Tibeto-Burman language family, and retains the complex verbal agreement system of Proto-Tibeto-Burman. Van Driem (1993) describes its speakers as a remnant of the ancient population of Central Bhutan before the southward expansion of the East Bodish tribes.\n\nThe Lepcha language has approximately 2,000 ethnic Lepcha people in Bhutan. It has its own highly stylized Lepcha script.\n\nThe Lhokpu language has approximately 2,500 speakers. It is one of the autochthonous languages of Bhutan and is yet unclassified within Tibeto-Burmese. Van Driem (1993) describes it as the remnant of \"the primordial population of Western Bhutan,\" and comments that Lhokpu or a close relative appears to have been the substrate language for Dzongkha, explaining the various ways in which Dzongkha diverged from Tibetan. It is spoken by the Lhop people.\n\nThe Nepali language is the only Indo-Aryan language spoken by native Bhutanese. Inside Bhutan, it is spoken primarily in the south by the approximately 2,00,000 resident Lhotshampa as of 2006. While the Lhotshampa are generally regarded as Nepali speakers, the Lhotshampa include many smaller non-Indo-Aryan groups such as the Tamang and Gurung in Southern Bhutan, and the Kiranti groups (including the Rai and Limbu peoples) found in Eastern Bhutan. Among these minorities are speakers of Chamling, Limbu, and Nepal Bhasa.\n\nThe Sikkimese and Groma languages, both Tibetan languages, are spoken along the Sikkim-Bhutan and Tibet-Bhutan borders in Western Bhutan. \n\nThe Toto language is generally classified as belonging to the sub-Himalayan branch of the Tibeto-Burman family. It is spoken by the isolated Toto tribe in Totopara and along the West Bengal-Bhutan border in South Bhutan. The total Toto population was about 1,300 people in 2006, mainly on the Indian side of the border.\n\n"}
{"id": "38938937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38938937", "title": "Lion lights", "text": "Lion lights\n\nLion lights are flashing lights set up around a perimeter facing outwards; which are used to scare away lions.\n\nThe lion lights were devised by Maasai Richard Turere to prevent night attacks by lions on his family's cattle herd, which was in Kitengela on the unfenced south side of Nairobi National Park, in Kenya. These types of attacks often lead to the hunting and killing of the lions, which are endangered.\n\nWhen Richard Turere was 9 he tried kerosene lamps and scarecrows but these proved not to work, but he noticed that the lions did not attack when people were present, and he theorised that they were deterred by moving torchlight. Therefore, Turere placed LED lights around the perimeter of his family's cow shed, connected them to vehicle indicator flashers, and powered the system from car batteries charged by a solar panel.\n\nThe lion attacks ceased and soon neighbours were asking for him to set up similar systems around their farms. The cattle were also calmer because the lights meant that they could see the land around was safe.\n\nBased on this invention, Turere won a scholarship to Brookhouse School.\n\nAlthough originally intended for lions, lion lights may also work for other predators such as leopards and cheetahs.\n"}
{"id": "3093394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3093394", "title": "List of European advertising characters", "text": "List of European advertising characters\n\nThis is a list of notable mascots and characters created specifically for advertising purposes, listed alphabetically by the product they represent.\n\n"}
{"id": "412669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412669", "title": "List of minor indigenous peoples of Russia", "text": "List of minor indigenous peoples of Russia\n\nThe following peoples are officially recognized minor indigenous peoples of Russia. Many of them are included into the \"Common List of Minor Indigenous Peoples of Russia\" () approved by the government of Russia on March 24, 2000.\n\nThese peoples satisfy the following criteria:\n\nSome of them, such as Soyots, were recognized only after the dissolution of the Soviet Union.\n\nThese peoples subject to benefits according to a number of laws aimed at preservation and support of these ethnicities.\n\nTen of these peoples count less than 1,000 and 11 of them live beyond the Arctic Circle.\n\nFar North is the part of Russia which lies mainly beyond the Arctic Circle.\n\n\n\n\nAccording to a 2000 decree of the government of Russian Federation, Dagestan was supposed to compile their own list of small-numbered indigenous peoples, to be included in the overall List of small-numbered indigenous peoples of Russia The peoples below fall under the criteria of the decree, but were not included into the list in 2000.\n\nthere are about 40 other tiny ethnic groups in Dagestan, with total number of less than 40,000. \n\n\nMost of the small numbered people have median ages considerably lesser than Russian average. The below table is taken from Russian census of 2002. For example median age for ethnic Russians was 37.6 years, while that of Yuraq Samoyeds was 26.20 . \n\nThe below table gives the average birth rate for Smaller Ethnic groups for the 1997-2002 period based on the 2002 census. (per 1000 people) Source: For most of the groups the birth rate was more than the death rate. For example for the Yuraq Samoyeds the birth rate was more than double the death rate. But for ethnic groups like Veps (Death rate 7 times the birth rate) the reverse was true. For Ingrians, not a single birth was recorded in 1992-2002 period. The youngest of the Ingrians are 3 people in 10-14 age group (Total ethnic population 327, of which more than 60% are above 70 years of age. The 1989 population was 820, signifying a decline of 2.5 times)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23609968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23609968", "title": "List of veterinary drugs", "text": "List of veterinary drugs\n\nThis article lists veterinary pharmaceutical drugs alphabetically by name. Many veterinary drugs have more than one name and, therefore, the same drug may be listed more than once.\n\nAbbreviations are used in the list as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34880430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34880430", "title": "Merinews", "text": "Merinews\n\nMerinews is an English-language online newspaper in India built on the concept of citizen journalism. The website is owned by Bizsol Advisors Pvt. Ltd. and allows anyone to share news, opinion, analysis, reviews, photos and events. Merinews also has city based local print editions in metropolitan areas in India.\n\nLaunched in 2006, Merinews was started by Vipul Kant Upadhyay, who started with no journalism background. In 2011 Merinews was India's largest citizen journalism portal.\n\nMerinews publications consist of user-generated content, where citizens play the role of journalists and share news, opinion, analysis, event details etc. The content isn't published directly as in a blog or social media platform, but is instead screened by the inhouse editorial team Revenue is generated primarily through advertisement served with the content. As of 2013, merinews has also started publishing online local editions, complemented by city specific local print tabloids.\n\nMerinews received the Manthan Award for Best e-content in 2006 in the e-news category.\n\nIn 2007, merinews was the first Indian website to make the list of ‘Official Honoree’ at the Webby Awards.\n"}
{"id": "8800585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8800585", "title": "Mikea people", "text": "Mikea people\n\nThe Mikea are a group of Malagasy-speaking horticulturalists and foragers who are often described as the lowland hunter-gatherers of Madagascar. They inhabit the Mikea Forest, a patch of mixed spiny forest and dry deciduous forest along the coast of southwestern Madagascar. The Mikea are predominantly of Sakalava origin, although the term describes a lifestyle rather than an ethnic group \"per se\", and individuals from a variety of Malagasy ethnic groups are found among the Mikea. The family encampments of the Mikea shift from prime corn planting territory at the edge of the forest in the rainy season to the interior forest rich with tenrecs and other game in the dry season, when the community becomes highly dependent on spongy tubers to meet their daily demand for water. Their lifestyle is interdependent with that of their neighboring Vezo fishermen and the Masikoro farmers and herders, with whom they trade products caught, foraged or cultivated in the forest. Many Mikea also occasionally engage in paid work such as guarding the zebu herds or tending the corn fields of others.\n\nThe present-day Mikea are not a remnant of an ancient Malagasy hunter-gatherer society, but are instead descendants of individuals who took refuge in the forest beginning in the 1800s to escape military conflict, heavy taxation and other oppressive factors. Their way of life is perceived by villagers and city dwellers alike as ancestral, contributing to a mystique about them that has inspired various myths and legends. They are commonly believed to be the mythical Vazimba, the original inhabitants of the island, although there is no evidence to support this view. They are distinct from the Beosi hunter-gatherers of the highlands. While some 1,500 individuals are known to identify as Mikea, many Malagasy disbelieve that the community continues to exist in the present day.\n\nThe Mikea are hunter-gatherers (also called foragers) who practice limited farming. The \"Mikea\" label is applied to those who live this subsistence lifestyle rather than being tied to a specific ethnicity. There are numerous groups termed Mikea along the west and southwest coast of Madagascar, with the majority living in and around the spiny Mikea Forest on the southwestern coast between Morombe and Toliara, an area extending 2500 square kilometers. Historically this main concentration of Mikea may have extended as far south as the Fiherenana River and as far north as the Mangoky River; another main cluster of Mikea live to the west and southwest of Lake Ihotry. They are typically considered a subset of the Sakalava ethnic group, although there are Mikea individuals who trace their origins to other ethnic groups. Their adherence to a way of life perceived by villagers and city dwellers as ancestral has contributed to a mystique and various myths and legends about them, and many Malagasy believe they are the descendents of Vazimba, the original inhabitants of the island, although there is no evidence to support this view. The majority of Malagasy believe the existence of the Mikea to be a myth and are unaware that any Malagasy continue to live the Mikea lifestyle to the present day. The term Mikea is principally used by outsiders to label this group and is not often used by members of this community themselves. Most Mikea prefer to call themselves either Vezo-Mikea or Masikoro-Mikea, depending on their specific family lineages.\n\nThe Mikea are not remnants of an early hunter-gatherer society. Although researchers remain uncertain when the Mikea first adopted a forest-dwelling, hunter-gatherer lifestyle, they have determined that the Mikea were only recently established as a community. The current Mikea population is believed to be descended largely from Masikoro villagers who fled into the forest to escape advancing Merina and Sakalava armies in the 18th and 19th centuries. Colonial French documents dating to 1901 describe hunter gatherers by the name of Mikea living in the southwest of the island. The population is believed to have swelled during the 1947 uprising against French colonial rule, when many Malagasy families left towns and villages to hide in forests across the country. Oil exploration in the 1950s and 1960s entailed cutting paths through the formerly untouched forests of the southwest, which further contributed to the migration of villagers into the forest to adopt the Mikea lifestyle.\n\nMikea are subject to national laws like all Malagasy citizens but in practice national laws, government and social services do not reach this population while dwelling in the forest. Within Mikea forest encampments an egalitarian form of self-government predominates, with the eldest male family member having the main decision-making authority for the group. This is in contrast to certain ethnic groups, such as the Merina, who had a complex form of social organization that overlaid a caste system with specific social roles assigned to particular family groups. In 1991, an estimated 1,500 Malagasy were living the Mikea lifestyle, primarily around the Mikea Forest, an area that receives limited rainfall. This number was estimated at several hundred in the 1950s, suggesting a growth in population. The true number of people living from forest scavenging is difficult to estimate with accuracy, as the label \"Mikea\" is very flexible, and the degree of reliance on scavenging as opposed to seasonal farming can vary significantly at any given time depending on economic and environmental conditions. The Mikea are subject to social stigma linked to their image as primitive or uncivilized people.\n\nHousing and social organization among the Mikea can vary from one individual or community to the next. Some Mikea remain in the forest their entire lives, while others live part of their lives in villages or towns. While living in the forest, groups of Mikea typically move seasonally between encampments nearest to critical resources. In the rainy season, they often live in groups of 30-50 people near tracts of virgin forest in proximity to their newly cleared and planted corn fields. The houses in this settlement are square with peaked roofs, as elsewhere in Madagascar, and are typically made of thatch and bark on a wooden pole frame. These houses are loosely clustered with generous space between each lodging. The rainy season encampment serves for three to five years as a base for forest foraging before resource depletion requires a move to a new location. Those working the corn fields may live in simple grass shelters alongside their crops until April or May, when they return to the bark houses. During the dry season from May to October, the encampment splits into smaller groups that relocate deeper into the forest to settle near \"babo\" tuber patches, with dwellings limited to brush shelters and thatch sunshades, and some individuals not living in shelters at all. In both types of settlements furniture is nearly non-existent and Mikea typically sleep in the sand or pits dug at the base of giant termite mounds.\n\nThe Mikea struggle to ensure the quality of life they seek. While the forest has long provided for their basic needs, deforestation and population growth are straining resources. In addition, Mikea are increasingly seeking to obtain better quality material goods for themselves, such as clothing, which necessitates greater engagement with the external economy through trade and wage labor to earn local currency. Lack of access to social services such as education and health clinics are also taking their toll: with only one health clinic in the Mikea Forest area and low access to water for bathing, rates of diseases such as tuberculosis, leprosy and skin disease are disproportionately prevalent.\n\nMikea tend to trace their lineage back to specific villages within one or more of three main lineages, associated respectively with the northern, southern and central parts of the Mikea Forest. Most also have relatives living in Vezo and/or Masikoro villages in the region. Many Mikea families have established \"ziva\" (a \"joking relationship\", commonly found in southern and eastern Africa) with the Vohitse Vanovato clan of the Masikoro, which indicates a degree of familial closeness with this subclan.\n\nMikea encampments are typically family groups. These consist of an elder couple, their married sons and daughters-in-law, the grandchildren of these marriages, and the elder couple's own unmarried children of any age. Adult daughters typically move to join their husband's family encampment upon marriage, but married couples often share their time between the husband's or wife's parents' encampments. Family unions are formed through a \"fandeo\" ceremony in which the man is presented to his intended bride's family, and the acceptance of her parents legitimizes the union. Children of the marriage are legitimized by the husband's bestowal of presents to his wife's parents. The relationship between the wife's brother (\"renilahy\", \"male mother\") and her children can be very strong in Mikea marriages, and the renilahy will commonly adopt children that his sister's husband does not legitimize. Both the husband and the wife have the right to divorce at any time and remarry. Polygamy is also practiced.\n\nLike other Malagasy, the Mikea spiritual belief system revolves around respect for ancestors. They also share the common Malagasy belief in a creator god, termed Andrianajanahary. Many Mikea believe in various types of forest spirits (\"koko\"), which are associated with certain natural spots in the forest deemed sacred; these sites serve as the focus of various ceremonies, in which rum has spiritual and symbolic significance. The greatest of the nature spirits is Ndrianazo, the lord of the forest. The extended family group, which spreads through multiple encampments, is united around a central priest figure, the \"mpitoka hazomanga\", who officiates over major family ceremonies dedicated to the ancestors. In addition, within each encampment is at least one \"ombiasy\" (wiseman) who interprets the will of the ancestors and spirits, and plays important roles in such ceremonies as marriage, circumcision, blessings, ancestral rituals, funerals, and \"tromba\" and \"bilo\" spirit possession ceremonies. Some also practice \"sikidy\" and other forms of divination, and provide spiritual advice on the best days or places to hunt, plant, shift camp, and other such events of daily life.\n\nThe Mikea are culturally and linguistically nearly identical to the neighboring Vezo fishing clan and Masikoro herding and farming clan of the Sakalava; only the traditional source of livelihood distinguishes the three groups. The popular association of the Mikea with the ancestral Vazimba clan has contributed to widespread belief that the Mikea possess Vazimba attributes, such as being small in stature, unclothed, shy and avoidant of contact with outsiders, and living in perfect harmony with the natural environment. None of these are borne out by evidence.\n\nThe Mikea are known to make masks – a rarity in Madagascar – using human teeth and hair.\nMusic is a significant part of Mikea social and spiritual life. Specific songs are associated with a wide range of life events and ceremonies, including \"havoaza\" (funerals), \"bilo\" (magical healing rituals), \"tromba\" (spirit possession), \"ringa\" (martial arts matches), \"savatsy\" (circumcision ceremonies) and more. Most music is vocal - often making use of whistling, shouts and other vocal effects in addition to singing - with percussion accompaniment ranging from handclapping to djembe or \"langoro\" drums. Conch shells and the \"jejy lava\" (stringed instrument with a gourd resonator, played with a bow) are also performed; both of these ancient instruments are increasingly rare in Madagascar and among the Mikea the latter is performed by men for one another. Rarer and more costly instruments like the \"marovany\" wooden box zither and the \"valiha\" bamboo tube zither are used for certain sacred rituals that invoke the ancestors. The marovany or valiha player is typically paid a \"fomba\" monetary tribute to perform the ceremonial music. Many songs are accompanied by specific dances and rituals that continue to be practiced among the Mikea in daily life.\n\nThe Mikea speak a dialect of the Malagasy language, which originated in southern Borneo. Their dialect is close to that spoken by the Vezo fishing clan and Masikoro herding clan of the Sakalava people.\n\nSpeculation that there may be remnants of a Vazimba language in Mikea speech was investigated by Blench & Walsh (2009) and found wanting. They concluded,\n\nThe speech of the Beosi people, short-statured hunter-gatherers of the highlands, has a higher proportion of unidentifiable vocabulary.\n\nThe arid conditions of the spiny forest, which receives less than 600 millimeters of rainfall each year, largely shape Mikea economic activities. Nearly everything they consume is scavenged from the forest, and the average Mikea needs two hours or less to collect adequate food for the day. Their main source of food is tubers, particularly during the dry season when few other foods may be reliably available. Adults and children of both genders work to dig up using a metal-tipped digging stick (\"antsoro\") and a digging bowl (\"kipao\"). The starchy \"ovy\" tuber is roasted or boiled before eating, while the Mikea eat the watery \"babo\" (or \"baboho\") raw for hydration or use its water for boiling other foods; the \"tavolo\" tuber is dried and ground to make a flour that is sold at village markets. They also gather forest fruits, melons and honey, with the latter a particularly important source of income for the Mikea during the rainy season. To obtain water during the rainy season the Mikea capture rain run-off from the rooftops of their houses using hollowed-out logs or transport water on foot or zebu-drawn wagon from the villages, while during the cool dry season the Mikea consume their store of water-engorged \"babo\" tubers and drink water from natural or man-made wells when possible.\n\nKey protein sources include birds and tenrecs. Mikea adults and children of both sexes use clubs to kill the small tenrec (\"tambotrika\", 0.4 kilograms), which is widespread year round, and the larger one (\"tandraka\", 2-3 kilograms), which is mainly caught during the rainy season. To a lesser extent they also hunt or trap two to three species of lemur, feral cats, occasional wild boars, turtles and rodents using blowguns, spears and dogs, and use a hook and line to catch fish in saline inland lakes. Some Mikea raise animals for food or sale at market, including goats, chickens and guinea fowl; tree nuts also provide additional protein.\n\nThe principal crop of the Mikea is corn, which was introduced to Madagascar in the 1890s. They also occasionally grow manioc. The dry season is used to cut new corn fields, which are burned in October (swidden agriculture, locally termed \"hatsaky\") and planted in November and December as the rains begin to fall. This corn is harvested three months later and consumed during the wet season; surplus is dried and sold, with some saved for the following year's planting and consumption. The traders who gather the maize from the Mikea process it for international export at a significant profit.\n\nThe Mikea live in a symbiotic relationship with the neighboring Masikoro farmers and herders, and the Vezo fishing clan. The Mikea live primarily on food scavenged from the forest but also grow seasonal crops. Their mobility and reliance on scavenging as opposed to crop growing shifts in response to changes in environmental and economic pressures on availability of resources within the Mikea community as well as those of their Vezo and Masikoro neighbors. The Mikea sell their forest products, as well as woven mats and food animals they raise, at weekly Vezo and Masikoro markets in nearby villages to obtain the necessities they cannot scavenge, such as clothing and medicine. Some Mikea migrate for periods of time to work in local villages or the town of Morombe. They are also hired to work for Vezo and Masikoro villagers, such as by cutting forest for villagers or other Mikeas' corn fields, or guarding villagers' zebu herds. They occasionally acquire one or more zebu in addition to or in lieu of payment, as these are seen as a form of wealth and are mainly sacrificed in ancestral ceremonies rather than eaten as food. The rainy season is the time when Mikea are most likely to leave their scavenging encampments for wage labor opportunities in villages or for the corn harvest. This is also the time when Masikoro and Vezo villagers are most likely to move into the forest to grow corn.\n\n"}
{"id": "10115658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10115658", "title": "Molecular self-assembly", "text": "Molecular self-assembly\n\nMolecular self-assembly is the process by which molecules adopt a defined arrangement without guidance or management from an outside source. There are two types of self-assembly. These are intramolecular self-assembly and intermolecular self-assembly. Commonly, the term molecular self-assembly refers to intermolecular self-assembly, while the intramolecular analog is more commonly called folding.\n\nMolecular self-assembly is a key concept in supramolecular chemistry. This is because assembly of molecules in such systems is directed through noncovalent interactions (e.g., hydrogen bonding, metal coordination, hydrophobic forces, van der Waals forces, π-π interactions, and/or electrostatic) as well as electromagnetic interactions. Common examples include the formation of micelles, vesicles, liquid crystal phases, and Langmuir monolayers by surfactant molecules. Further examples of supramolecular assemblies demonstrate that a variety of different shapes and sizes can be obtained using molecular self-assembly.\n\nMolecular self-assembly allows the construction of challenging molecular topologies. One example is Borromean rings, interlocking rings wherein removal of one ring unlocks each of the other rings. DNA has been used to prepare a molecular analog of Borromean rings. More recently, a similar structure has been prepared using non-biological building blocks.\n\nMolecular self-assembly underlies the construction of biologic macromolecular assemblies in living organisms, and so is crucial to the function of cells. It is exhibited in the self-assembly of lipids to form the membrane, the formation of double helical DNA through hydrogen bonding of the individual strands, and the assembly of proteins to form quaternary structures. Molecular self-assembly of incorrectly folded proteins into insoluble amyloid fibers is responsible for infectious prion-related neurodegenerative diseases. Molecular self-assembly of nanoscale structures plays a role in the growth of the remarkable β-keratin lamellae/setae/spatulae structures used to give geckos the ability to climb walls and adhere to ceilings and rock overhangs.\n\nMolecular self-assembly is an important aspect of bottom-up approaches to nanotechnology. Using molecular self-assembly the final (desired) structure is programmed in the shape and functional groups of the molecules. Self-assembly is referred to as a 'bottom-up' manufacturing technique in contrast to a 'top-down' technique such as lithography where the desired final structure is carved from a larger block of matter. In the speculative vision of molecular nanotechnology, microchips of the future might be made by molecular self-assembly. An advantage to constructing nanostructure using molecular self-assembly for biological materials is that they will degrade back into individual molecules that can be broken down by the body.\n\nDNA nanotechnology is an area of current research that uses the bottom-up, self-assembly approach for nanotechnological goals. DNA nanotechnology uses the unique molecular recognition properties of DNA and other nucleic acids to create self-assembling branched DNA complexes with useful properties. DNA is thus used as a structural material rather than as a carrier of biological information, to make structures such as complex 2D and 3D lattices (both tile-based as well as using the \"DNA origami\" method) and three-dimensional structures in the shapes of polyhedra. These DNA structures have also been used as templates in the assembly of other molecules such as gold nanoparticles and streptavidin proteins.\n\nThe spontaneous assembly of a single layer of molecules at interfaces is usually referred to as two-dimensional self-assembly. One of the common examples of such assemblies are Langmuir-Blodgett monolayers and multilayers of surfactants. Non-surface active molecules can assemble into ordered structures as well. Early direct proofs showing that non-surface active molecules can assemble into higher-order architectures at solid interfaces came with the development of scanning tunneling microscopy and shortly thereafter. Eventually two strategies became popular for the self-assembly of 2D architectures, namely self-assembly following ultra-high-vacuum deposition and annealing and self-assembly at the solid-liquid interface. The design of molecules and conditions leading to the formation of highly-crystalline architectures is considered today a form of 2D crystal engineering at the nanoscopic scale.\n\n"}
{"id": "58320168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58320168", "title": "Novartis Prizes for Immunology", "text": "Novartis Prizes for Immunology\n\nThe Novartis Prizes for Immunology were established in 1990 by Sandoz to honour outstanding research in immunology, and expanded to their current form in 1992. Prizes for basic and clinical immunology are awarded every 3 years. A special prize was awarded in 2004.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37089389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37089389", "title": "Palestinians in Jordan", "text": "Palestinians in Jordan\n\nPalestinians in Jordan refers to people with Palestinian citizenship of Palestinian refugee status living in Jordan or sometimes all those of full or partial Palestinian ancestry living in Jordan. Most Palestinian ancestors came to Jordan as Palestinian refugees between 1947 and 1967. Today, most Palestinians and their descendants in Jordan are fully naturalized, making Jordan the only Arab country to fully integrate the Palestinian refugees of 1948.\n\nIn Jordan, there is no official census data for how many inhabitants are Palestinians and it rather depends on the definition of who is a Palestinian. 2.1 million Palestinians are registered as refugees, not including many Jordanians of Palestinian origin not registered as refugees with the UNRWA. As of 2014, around 370,000 live in ten refugee camps, with the biggest one being Baqa'a refugee camp with over 104,000 residents, followed by Amman New Camp (Wihdat) with over 51,500 residents.\n\nPalestinians are overwhelmingly concentrated in northern and central Jordan, specifically in the Amman Governorate, Zarqa Governorate and Irbid Governorate.\n\nThis is a list of notable Palestinian people in Jordan and people of Palestinian ancestry:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38713956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38713956", "title": "Peshawar Fashion Week", "text": "Peshawar Fashion Week\n\nPeshawar Fashion Week (PFW) is an annually fashion event held in Peshawar, Pakistan. It represents the culture of Pakistan, especially Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Events is organised by the \"KHYBER PAKHTOONKHAW Fashion DESIGN and Arts Council\" (KPFDAC). First event was held in 2011.\n\nFirst PFW 2011 was scheduled to be held in September 2011 but for some reason KPFDAC delayed the event. Venue was a private hotel in Peshawar.\n\nPFW 2013 was held on March 4–5, 2013 in Peshawar.\n"}
{"id": "5376793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5376793", "title": "Philip Giordano", "text": "Philip Giordano\n\nPhilip Anthony Giordano (born March 25, 1963) is the former Republican mayor of Waterbury, Connecticut, and a convicted sex offender. He was born in Caracas, Venezuela, to Italian parents and his family moved to the United States when he was two years old.\n\nA lawyer, former state representative and former Marine (1981–1985), Giordano served three terms as mayor after being elected for the first time in 1995. In 2000, he unsuccessfully ran for a seat in the U.S. Senate, losing to Joe Lieberman.\n\nGiordano was elected Mayor in 1995, defeating seven-term Democratic Mayor Edward \"Mike\" Bergin by 52% to 45%. He was re-elected with 53% of the vote in 1999.\n\nDuring his time as mayor, he claimed to have balanced Waterbury's budget, but prior to his arrest a state oversight board had to intervene as a result of chronic pension underfunding and taking money out of the pension fund to balance the general fund. Upon Giordano's arrest in 2001, he was forced to step aside, leaving President of the Board of Aldermen Sam Caligiuri as acting mayor.\n\nIn 2000, Senator Joe Lieberman was chosen by Democratic presidential nominee Al Gore to be his Vice Presidential running mate -- and Lieberman also chose to run for a third term to the Senate (Connecticut law permits candidates running for both offices). Having little chance to defeat the very popular centrist Lieberman, few Connecticut Republicans wanted to take him on. Finally, the state GOP settled on Giordano. Lieberman focused on his Vice Presidential run and refused to show up at debates; Giordano, mostly ignored by the press, received some coverage by debating alone and mocking Lieberman. In the end, it mattered little, as voters returned the incumbent to the Senate by a nearly two-to-one margin (63% to 34%).\n\nWhile investigating municipal corruption, the FBI discovered phone records and pictures of Giordano with a prostitute, as well as with her 10-year-old niece and her eight-year-old daughter. He was arrested on July 26, 2001, and, in March 2003, was convicted of 14 counts of using an interstate device, his cellphone, to arrange sexual contact with children. He was also convicted of violating the girls' civil rights. He was sentenced to 37 years in prison. In July 2007 his motion to reduce this sentence was denied by a federal judge. In 2006, Giordano sued the city for back pay resulting from sick days and vacation time.\n\nGiordano is currently serving his 37-year sentence at the FCI Bennettsville in South Carolina, a medium security federal institution, and is scheduled for release in 2034.\n\n"}
{"id": "8529764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8529764", "title": "Prometa", "text": "Prometa\n\nPrometa is a treatment protocol used primarily for methamphetamine addiction, although it has also been claimed to be effective for dependence on alcohol or cocaine. It is now being labeled as GABASYNC. The treatment, based loosely on the research of Spanish psychologist Juan Jose Legarda, involves a combination of three medications as well as therapy. The medications are each individually approved by the FDA, however none of which have been approved for addiction treatment by the FDA > further the combination has not received any FDA approval. The medications are Gabapentin, Flumazenil and hydroxyzine, used off label. Prometa was developed by Terren Peizer a former junk bond trader the company nameHythiam, Inc., which has sought to patent the protocol and charges up to $15,000 per patient to license its use. Lower rates are offered to the criminal justice system, where it has been used in several drug court pilot programs.\n\nOther studies have found the prometa protocol to be no more effective than a placebo in regards to rates of recovery and reduction in craving. \nA November, 2011, double-blind, placebo-controlled study published in the journal Addiction concluded that Prometa is ineffective. \"The PROMETA protocol, consisting of flumazenil, gabapentin and hydroxyzine, appears to be no more effective than placebo in reducing methamphetamine use, retaining patients in treatment or reducing methamphetamine craving.\" \n\nFor alcohol dependence, the treatment consists of flumazenil (administered intravenously), hydroxyzine, and gabapentin. The treatment is similar for stimulant dependence, with additional flumazenil administrations. The dosing regimen of the drug combination is discussed in Urschel’s recently published study. The initial intravenous administrations are followed up by orally prescribed medications and behavioral treatment.\n\nPreliminary evidence that a regimen combining hydroxizine, flumazenil and gabapentin - i.e. the active pharmacological components of Prometa - can help decrease methamphetamine cravings and use was first published in October 2007 following a relatively small, open-label trial by Dr. Harold C. Urschel. The study, funded by Hythiam, was published in the \"Mayo Clinic Proceedings\", a peer reviewed medical journal.\n\n\"60 Minutes\" reported that Dr. Urschel's addiction clinic sold the Prometa treatment. However Urschel denied this was a conflict of interest.\n\nDr. Urschel has also completed a double-blind, placebo controlled study of Prometa's active ingredients, where 68 patients were randomized to active and 67 patients to placebo treatment for 30 days. The study reported a decrease in both cravings and methamphetamine use following the initial treatment and throughout the 30 days treatment period.\n\nThe effects of the flumazenil/gabapentin combination in the treatment of alcohol dependence are less clear. In a randomized, placebo-controlled trial alcohol-dependent subjects taking flumazenil/gabapentin had more abstinent days and time to first heavy drinking if they had high alcohol withdrawal symptoms prior to treatment, whereas the patients with low withdrawal symptoms actually did worse with active treatment.\n\nA Hythiam press release in 2004 announced that a center in Covington, Louisiana, would offer the treatment that was to become known as Prometa in that court's drug program. However, the program was never implemented, and the judge there said he was uncomfortable that the evidence for it was not as strong as the company's marketing. As a result, the first Prometa pilot took place in Gary, Indiana, beginning in November 2005. Hythiam provided a $90,000 grant(according to Karen Freeman-Wilson on a radio show with Gary's 1370am http://www.ustream.tv/channel/wlth-talk on 4/22/11) to cover the program, and court officials spoke positively of the results, but were unable to secure funding to continue it after the grant ran out. Another trial in Fulton County, Georgia, ended early because it was not deemed effective; one report mentioned physician misconduct, but court officials would not comment about the issue.\n\nPierce County, Washington, initiated a 40-person pilot program in 2006 through a nonprofit treatment center serving the county's drug court, and officials reported very promising results. With this they were able to get $900,000 for Prometa funding in the state and county budgets for 2007, including a University of Washington study to evaluate the treatment. However, it was subsequently revealed that county executive John Ladenburg, state legislator Dennis Flannigan, and officials at the treatment center had bought Hythiam stock. A county audit also questioned the effectiveness of the program, in part because auditors took a different approach than the treatment center in determining whether Prometa was successful.\n\nThese revelations led the Pierce County Council to suspend its funding for the program in October 2007. An unspent $175,000, along with $400,000 Ladenburg had requested for 2008, were instead set aside with the proviso that they could be used for \"evidence-based programs that are directed towards breaking the cycle of drug addiction\". Ladenburg and Flannigan also had to amend their state financial disclosure forms, although Ladenburg reported he had sold his stock at a loss and insisted it did not influence his actions. The news from Pierce County, along with a \"60 Minutes\" investigation of Prometa that aired in December, battered Hythiam's stock, as it fell in value nearly two-thirds by the end of the year. However, at the same time the city council in nearby Federal Way, Washington, approved a small $20,000 Prometa trial at the suggestion of a city council member whose employee, one of Prometa's successes, had been treated in Pierce County and featured in the \"60 Minutes\" report.\n\nAlso in 2007, Jerry Madden, chair of the Texas House Corrections Committee, secured $2 million of funding over two years in the state budget for Prometa treatment programs. In contrast with officials in Washington, Madden said he had no financial ties to Hythiam. In support of the budget request he cited a 20-person pilot paid for by Hythiam in Collin County, where the local judge reported a \"spectacular\" success rate. Other courts in the state were more skeptical about the lack of clinical research supporting Prometa, however, and only four other counties requested funding. About half of the amount budgeted for the initial year was spent.\n\nTroubled actress Lindsay Lohan was connected to Prometa as one of her rehab efforts during 2007, when \"Star Magazine\" reported that she was being treated by Dr. Matthew Torrington, director of the Prometa Center in Santa Monica. Prometa was also featured in an episode of the MTV series \"True Life\", in which recovering methamphetamine addict \"Dustin\" allowed the network to film his treatment with Prometa, as well as his life before and after he quit using the drug.\n\n"}
{"id": "2422084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2422084", "title": "Prooftext", "text": "Prooftext\n\nProoftexting (sometimes \"proof-texting\" or \"proof texting\") is the practice of using isolated, out-of-context quotations from a document to establish a proposition in eisegesis (introducing one's own presuppositions, agendas, or biases). Such quotes may not accurately reflect the original intent of the author, and a document quoted in such a manner, when read as a whole, may not support the proposition for which it was cited. The term has currency primarily in theological and exegetical circles.\n\nThis is to be distinguished from quotations from a source deemed a hostile witness, which inadvertently substantiate a point beneficial to the quoter in the course of its own narrative. Even when lifted out of context, those facts still stand.\n\n"}
{"id": "419900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419900", "title": "Rent control in the United States", "text": "Rent control in the United States\n\nRent control in the United States refers to laws or ordinances that set price controls on the renting of American residential housing. They function as a price ceiling.\n\nThe loose term \"rent control\" can apply to several types of price control:\n\nAs of 2018, four states (California, New York, New Jersey, and Maryland) and the District of Columbia have localities in which some form of residential rent control is in effect (for normal structures, excluding mobile homes). Thirty-seven states either prohibit or preempt rent control, while nine states allow their cities to enact rent control, but have no cities that have implemented it.\n\nIn the United States during World War I, rents were \"controlled\" through a combination of public pressure and the efforts of local anti-rent-profiteering committees. Between 1919 and 1924, a number of cities and states adopted rent- and eviction-control laws. Modern rent controls were first adopted in response to WWII-era shortages, or following Richard Nixon's 1971 wage and price controls. They remain in effect or have been reintroduced in some cities with large tenant populations, such as New York City, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Washington, D.C., and Oakland, California. Many smaller communities also have rent control — notably the California cities of Santa Monica, Berkeley, and West Hollywood — along with many small towns in New Jersey. In the early 1990s, rent control in some cities, such as Boston and Cambridge, Massachusetts, was ended by state referenda.\n\nNew York State has had the longest history of rent controls, since 1943. New York City contains the majority of units covered by rent control. Rent control laws have stayed on the books for decades in New York because of an inadequate supply of \"decent, affordable housing\". The worsening in the rental market led to the enactment of the Rent Stabilization Law of 1969, which aimed to help increase the number of available rental units. The current system is very complicated, and most of the protected renters are elderly.\n\nIn California, municipal enactment of rent controls followed the high inflation of the 1970s (causing rents to continually rise) and the 1979 statewide Proposition 13, which set property tax rates at 1%, and capped yearly increases at 2%. Leading the campaign to enact Proposition 13, California politician Howard Jarvis tried to get tenants to vote for Prop 13 by claiming that landlords would pass tax savings along to tenants; when most failed to do so, it became an additional motivating factor for rent control. \n\nIn 1985, California adopted the Ellis Act, eliminating municipalities' ability to prohibit the removal of properties from rental activities after the California Supreme Court in \"Nash v. City of Santa Monica\" ruled that municipalities could prevent landlords from \"going out of business\" and withdrawing their properties from the rental market.\n\n\"Strong\" or \"vacancy control\" rent control laws were in effect in five California cities (West Hollywood, Santa Monica, Berkeley, East Palo Alto and Cotati) in 1995, when AB 1164 (known as the Costa-Hawkins Rental Housing Act) preempted some elements of municipal rent control ordinances and completely eliminated strong rent-control in California (except in special cases like mobile home parks).\n\nIn 2018, a statewide initiative (Proposition 10) attempted to repeal the Costa-Hawkins law, which, if passed, would have allowed cities and municipalities to enact \"strong\" or \"vacancy control\" systems, allowed rent control to be applied to buildings newer than 1995, and would have allowed rent control on single-family homes. (All currently prohibited by Costa-Hawkins.) The proposition failed, 62% to 38%. See \n\nIn some regions, rent control laws are more commonly adopted for mobile home parks. Reasons given for these laws include residents owning their homes while renting the land the home sits on, the high cost of moving mobile homes, and the loss of home value when they are moved. California, for example, has only 13 local apartment rent control laws but over 100 local mobile home rent control laws. No new mobile home parks have been built in California since 1991.\n\nRent control laws define which rental units are affected, and may only cover larger complexes, or units older than a certain date. To attempt to not disincentivise investment in new housing stock, rent control laws often exempt new construction. For example, San Francisco's Rent Stabilization Ordinance exempts all units built after 1979. New York State generally exempts units built after 1974 anywhere in the state (although owners can agree to rent stabilization in exchange for tax benefits). \n\nThe frequency and degree of rent increases are limited, usually to the rate of inflation defined by the Consumer Price Index or to a fraction thereof. San Francisco, for example, allows annual rent increases of 60% of the CPI, up to a maximum 7%.\n\nRent control laws are often administered by nonelected rent control boards. Officers in city government assign members of the board, which will ensure mixed numbers of tenants and property owners to balance out their benefits. As stated in Goodman's research, a typical rent control board in New York is structured by two tenants, two landlords, and one homeowner.(Gilderbloom & Markham,1996).\n\nRent regulation in the United States is an issue for each state. In 1921, the US Supreme Court case of \"Block v. Hirsh\" held by a majority that regulation of rents in the District of Columbia as a temporary emergency measure was constitutional, but shortly afterwards in 1924 in \"Chastleton Corp v. Sinclair\" the same law was unanimously struck down by the Supreme Court. After the 1930s New Deal, the Supreme Court ceased to interfere with social and economic legislation, and a growing number of states adopted rules. The application was often inconsistent. For example, in New York City, almost half of property units continue to have the protection of rent regulation, while other units on the private market are left to be priced according to what the market will bear. In the 1986 case of \"Fisher v. City of Berkeley\", the US Supreme court held that there was no incompatibility between rent control and the Sherman Act.\n\nAs of 2018, four states (California, New York, New Jersey, and Maryland) and the District of Columbia have localities in which some form of residential rent control is in effect (for normal structures, excluding mobile homes). Thirty-seven states either prohibit or preempt rent control, while nine states allow their cities to enact rent control, but have no cities that have implemented it.\n\nThe rental-accommodation market suffers from information asymmetries and high transaction costs. Typically, a landlord has more information about a home than a prospective tenant can reasonably detect. Moreover, once the tenant has moved in, the costs of moving again are very high. Unscrupulous landlords could conceal defects and, if the tenant complains, threaten to raise the rent at the end of the lease. With rent control, tenants can request that hidden defects, if they exist, be repaired to comply with building code requirements, without fearing retaliatory rent increases. Rent control could thus compensate somewhat for inefficiencies of the housing market. \n\nIn older buildings, rent control may broaden incentives to renovate individual units: tenants may invest sweat equity and their own money to improve their homes if they are protected from landlords trying to capture the added value, while vacancy decontrol preserves landlords' financial incentive to renovate vacant units because it allows them to re-rent at market value.\n\nTenants' rights activists argue that rent control is necessary in times of long term housing shortages (See California housing shortage) to reduce the human suffering caused by increasing rents and the homelessness which results when people who can no longer afford the rent increases get evicted.\n\nWriting in 1946, economists Milton Friedman and George J. Stigler said: \"Rent ceilings, therefore, cause haphazard and arbitrary allocation of space, inefficient use of space, retardation of new construction and indefinite continuance of rent ceilings, or subsidization of new construction and a future depression in residential building.\"\nAlthough those paying lower than market rent are \"protected,\" most economists argue that newer residents actually pay higher rent due to reduced supply.\n\nIn a 1992 stratified, random survey of 464 US economists, economics graduate students, and members of the American Economic Association, 93% \"generally agreed\" or \"agreed with provisos\" that \"A ceiling on rents reduces the quantity and quality of housing available.\" \n\nA 2009 review of the economic literature by Blair Jenkins through EconLit covering theoretical and empirical research on multiple aspects of the issue, including housing availability, maintenance and housing quality, rental rates, political and administrative costs, and redistribution, for both first generation and second generation rent control systems, found that “the economics profession has reached a rare consensus: Rent control creates many more problems than it solves”. \n\nIn a 2013 analysis of the body of economic research on rent control by Peter Tatian at the Urban Institute (a think tank described both as \"liberal\" and \"independent\"), he stated that \"The conclusion seems to be that rent stabilization doesn’t do a good job of protecting its intended beneficiaries—poor or vulnerable renters—because the targeting of the benefits is very haphazard.\", and concluded that: \"Given the current research, there seems to be little one can say in favor of rent control.\" \n\nTwo economists from opposing sides of the political spectrum, Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman (who identifies as an American liberal or European social democrat), and Thomas Sowell, (who stated that \"libertarian\" might best describe his views) have both criticized rent regulation as poor economics, which, despite its good intentions, leads to the creation of less housing, raises prices, and increases urban blight. \n\nPrice ceilings can create shortages and reduce quality when they are less than the equilibrium price. By capping the price of housing, rent control can increase demand and reduce available supply, causing a shortage. It is argued that rent control also reduces the quality of available housing, deters investment, and raises rents on tenants who are excluded from its protections (for example, in jurisdictions with vacancy decontrol, tenants who move or arrive later). When property owners are restricted in the rents they can charge, they are less willing to construct more housing (a form of capital strike). Since supply is low, landlords worry less about tenants leaving and have little incentive to maintain the property. For example, unless owners can reasonably expect that punitive action will be taken against them, they might let building maintenance deteriorate in order to mitigate the lower rental income. People moving into the city have difficulty finding housing because of the shortage created by rent control.\n\nWhen housing is limited, it must be rationed in some way. After the San Francisco earthquake of 1906, the number of houses relative to the number of people who needed housing fell by 40%, but a shortage was avoided because the market price mechanism effectively rationed housing and provided an incentive for new housing to be built. In 1946, however, a far less extreme situation was dealt with via chance and favoritehood.\n\nSome, such as William Tucker of the Cato Institute, a leading libertarian thinktank, have argued that rent control laws are a textbook example of the problems that arise in trying to artificially reduce prices. The natural consequence in a free-market economy is a reduction in supply and consequent shortages. Tucker has argued that rent control has the perverse effect of creating \"less\" affordable housing.\n\nAreas with rent-controlled housing are blamed for difficulty of finding vacant housing and the resulting power imbalance between landlords and tenants as tenants may \"game the system\" to impose onerous conditions on the landlord, forcing long cycles of judicial action, leading to considerable economic hardship for the landlord. Likewise, new tenants have serious difficulty finding housing, so they are seriously disadvantaged if they must move. As a result, landlords can impose numerous conditions and requirements.\n\nRent control restricts the property rights of property owners, as it limits what they may do with their property, requiring petitioning and other processes by law, prior to taking action against a renter.\n\nBecause enacting rent control on a building reduces the investment return that can be expected from that building, it thereby reduces the present value of the building, which can be viewed as a partial expropriation of private property.\n\n\nPeople\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31146543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31146543", "title": "Sexual Assault Awareness Month", "text": "Sexual Assault Awareness Month\n\nSexual Assault Awareness Month (SAAM) is an annual campaign to raise public awareness about sexual assault and educate communities and individuals on how to prevent sexual violence. It is observed in April.\n\nEach year during the month of April, state, territory, tribal and community-based organizations, rape crisis centers, government agencies, businesses, campuses and individuals plan events and activities to highlight sexual violence as a public health, human rights and social justice issue and reinforce the need for prevention efforts.\n\nThe theme, slogan, resources and materials for the national SAAM campaign are coordinated by the National Sexual Violence Resource Center each year with assistance from anti-sexual assault organizations throughout the United States.\n\nThe 1970s saw a significant growth for prevention and awareness of sexual violence across the country, following the general trend of social activism throughout the decade. Moving beyond awareness of the issue, the Bay Area Women Against Rape opened in 1971 as the nation’s first rape crisis center offering immediate victim services. With this heightened awareness of sexual violence, state coalitions began to form, beginning with Pennsylvania Coalition Against Rape in 1975. \n\nAs early as 1976, Take Back the Night marches rallied women in organized protest against rape and sexual assault. These marches protested the violence and fear that women encountered walking the streets at night. Over time these events coordinated into a movement across the United States and Europe. Because of this movement broader activities to raise awareness of violence against women began to occur.\n\nIn the early 1980s, activists used October to raise awareness of violence against women and domestic violence awareness became the main focus. In the late 1980s, the National Coalition Against Sexual Assault (NCASA) informally polled state sexual assault coalitions to determine the preferred date for a national Sexual Assault Awareness Week. A week in April was selected. By the late 1990s, many advocates began coordinating activities and events throughout the month of April, advancing the idea of a nationally recognized month for sexual violence awareness and prevention activities. SAAM was first observed nationally in April 2001.\n\nSurvivors, advocates, and state coalitions mobilized around the creation and implementation of the Violence Against Women Act in 1994. This bill was the first national law requiring law enforcement to treat gender violence as a crime rather than a private family matter. VAWA was also designed to strengthen legal protections for victims of domestic violence and sexual violence as well as expand services to survivors and their children\n\nThe National Sexual Violence Resource Center was established in 2000 by the Pennsylvania Coalition Against Rape and the Center for Disease Control. In 2001, the NSVRC coordinated the first formally recognized national Sexual Assault Awareness Month campaign, and still facilitates it today. In 2005, the campaign shifted to prevention of sexual violence and the first tool kits were sent out to coalitions and rape crisis centers across the country. Awareness for the campaign culminated in 2009 when Barack Obama was the first president to officially proclaim April as Sexual Assault Awareness Month.\n\nState, territory, and tribal sexual violence coalitions were polled in 2000 by the Resource Sharing Project (RSP) and the NSVRC to determine that the color teal was the preferred color for sexual assault awareness and prevention and that April was the preferred month to coordinate national sexual assault awareness activities. The teal ribbon was adopted as a symbol of sexual assault awareness and prevention.\n\nThe first Tuesday in April is the SAAM Day of Action and provides an opportunity for everyone to take action in preventing sexual violence.\n\nBeginning in 1990 in Massachusetts, The Clothesline Project is made up of t-shirts created by survivors of violence, or created in honor of someone who has experienced violence. The Clothesline Project provides evidence that incest, domestic violence, and sexual violence exists in our communities and is a visual reminder of statistics that we often ignore. \n\nTake Back the Night is an international event that began in the early 1970s in response to sexual assaults and violence against women. Local communities have organized TBTN marches and rallies to unify individuals against violence in their communities. TBTN can include a candlelight vigil, a rally, a survivor speak out, and a large scale public march. \n\nCreated in 2001, Walk a Mile in Her Shoes is an international men’s march to stop rape, sexual assault, and gender violence. The event helps to bring community awareness of sexual violence and have everyone involved in the conversation.\n\nPeace Over Violence facilitates a Wednesday in April as Denim Day as a symbol of protest against misconceptions around sexual assault. The event was originally created in response to an Italian Supreme Court case in which a rape conviction was overruled because the victims tight jeans implied consent. \n\nThis year, SAAM is celebrating its 17th anniversary with the theme Embrace Your Voice to inform individuals on how they can use their words to promote safety, respect, and equality to stop sexual violence before it happens. More specifically, individuals can embrace their voices to show their support for survivors, stand up to victim blaming, shut down rape jokes, correct harmful misconceptions, promote everyday consent, and practice healthy communications with children. NSVRC has developed four key resources for this campaign including fact-sheets, Embrace Your Voice, Everyday Consent, Healthy Communications with Kids, and Understanding Sexual Violence. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "28236727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28236727", "title": "Sikarwar Khanzada", "text": "Sikarwar Khanzada\n\nThe all people's found in the state of Uttar Pradesh in [community[India]]. They are a part of the wider Khanzada community of eastern Uttar Pradesh. The community uses the surname [Singh (name)|Singh].\n\nSikarwar Suryavanshi Rajput — Suryavanshi rajputs trace their lineage to the Vedic Sun – Surya. Lord Rama was also born in this lineage. Suryavanshi rajputs ruled over Mewar, Marwar, Amber, etc. Raghuvanshi Rajput–A Raghav Rajput is a member of one of the major Suryavanshi Rajput clans of India who ruled a number of kingdoms and princely states. Raghav is the oldest Suryavanshi Rajput clan. They enjoy a reputation as rulers and soldiers. The Raghav population and the former Rajput states are found spread through much the subcontinent, particularly in North India and central India. The Raghav are the forefathers of many Suryavanshi Rajput clans such as the Bargurjars, Silkarwar, Sisodiyas, Kachwahas, and Minhass. Their kuldevta (family deity) is Lord Rama and their kuldevi (goddess) is Sita.\n\n\"Sikarwar Khanzada\" are Suryavanshi Rajput converts from Sikarwar Rajput clan. They claim descent from Kamat Dev Sikarwar, who left Vijaipur Sikri now Fatehpur Sikri, in AD-1527 after the 'Battle of Kanhua' with Babur . Kamat Dev became Karim Khan after conversion and established the Dildarnagar Kamsar Paragna of Dildarnagar,Zamania in Ghazipur district in his name. Kamat Dev's genealogy descends from Pratap Rao Sikarwar who had constructed the Anup Tal of Sikri in his father's Anup Dev Sikarwar's name. The now shattered Elephant Gate of Sikri was also constructed by Pratap Rao. He had a son Udai Raj Sikarwar and a grandson Parmeshwar Dev Sikarwar. Parmeshwar in turn had three sons namely- Pujian Dev Sikarwar, Niverdhan Dev Sikarwar and Sahaj Dev Sikarwar. Sahaj Dev had a son by the name of Kamat Dev Sikarwar. It was Kamat Dev Sikarwar who was caught and converted by Babur after the 'Battle of Kanhua' along with three of his sons. Their names were- Puran Mal Sikarwar, Vishnu Dev Sikarwar and Naman Dev Sikarwar. After conversion Puran Mal became Akhram Khan, Vishnu became Ajmat Khan and Naman became Inayat Khan. After conversion Babur even gave Karim Khanji a state to rule in Sikri. Babur knew that if a ruler gets converted it becomes easier to convert the rest of the population. Karim Khan was a Prince of Vijaipur Sikri. Since he had converted under duress he gave away his state. The progeny of Vishnu or Ajmat Khan and Naman or Inayat Khan continues to reside at Sikri and Agra. They seem to call themselves 'Rangers'. The famous Salim Chiste, a contemporary of Akbar also seems to belong to this clan. The progeny of Puran Mal or Akhram Khan shifted to Eastern Uttar Pradesh. His father Karim Khan visited Rao Dham Dev Sikarwar (his Kin) (at Gahanban now Gahmar) during Akbar's rule. Rao Dham Dev Sikarwar was the last ruler of Sikri who fought against Babur.Akhram Khanji could be an ancestor of the Chaudhary family of Allahdadpur of Sultanpur District. They were at one time substantial landowners of Sultanpur. The Sikarwar Khanzada of Zamania tehsil of Ghazipur District reside in Kamsar Paragna.As per Madam Beveridge the translator of Baburnama, there is a 'Gap' of 15 MONTHS just before Babur's death in 1530 AD. These details if mentioned at all by Babur seem to have been removed from his records. Some Sikarwars of village Samauta also got converted to Islam during Aurangzeb's period. Edited by a Sikarwar of Gahmar.\n\n'Sikarwar Khanzadas' are Sunni Suryavanshi Rajputs, who incorporate many folk beliefs. They are mainly small and medium-sized farmers, from Aldamau in Sultanpur District, where they occupy nine villages. They also occupy a number of villages in Dildarnagar Kamsar in Ghazipur District. In addition to the Sikarwar Khanzada, the Sikarwar converts who call themselves Ranghar in Agra District also belong to this clan.\n\nTheir sense of belonging to the Rajput community remains strong. The Sikarwar Khanzada strongly identify themselves with the wider Rajput community of Awadh. The persistence of their marriages customs, like bursting of crackers and sending specially made laddoos to biradari members are some examples. Many continue to serve the armed forces of India, an activity traditionally associated with Rajputs. The Khanzadas were badly affected after the zamindari system was abolished. Like other Suryavanshi Rajputs, there is a movement towards orthodoxy, as many of their villages have started having madrasas. These madrasas have facilitated growth of [Hindi]. It seems to replace Awadhi dialect that they speak traditionally. .\n"}
{"id": "37023564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37023564", "title": "Syrian Colombian", "text": "Syrian Colombian\n\nSyrian Colombian is a Colombian of Syrian descent or a Syrian naturalized Colombian.\n\nThe wave of Syrian immigration to Colombia seems to have begun in the 1880s. This was perhaps its peak during the first three decades of this century and declined after 1930, but Syrians, Lebanese and Palestinians continued since then settled in Colombia. Due to the limited information available, it is impossible to know exactly how many Syrians and Lebanese have immigrated into the country. It has been estimated that, during the busiest period (1880-1930), a figure between 5,000 and 10,000 could be reliable. Whatever the figure, there is no doubt that, perhaps next to the Spanish, the Syrian-Lebanese are the largest immigrant group in Colombia since independence.\n\nThose who left their homeland in the Middle East to settle in Colombia were motivated by a variety of reasons: economic, political and religious. The selection of Colombia as a destination obeyed on random occasions and once the process starts, the weak information about the country began to receive those who already had family or friends with some experience in the migratory adventure.\n\nThe phenomenon of the Syrian-Lebanese immigration in Colombia is far from unique to the Atlantic coast. In his biographical essay on Gabriel Turbay, Gonzalo Buenahora highlighted the contribution of the Syrian economic development Bucaramanga. Chalelas, Stafis, Korgis, Chedranis, were the trade balance for half a century and their names linked to the steel industry. The establishment of the first factories of buttons and strings, and the importation of the first car that came by mule to Bucaramanga in 1912 were linked to Sino-Lebanese names. Syrian-Lebanese immigrants, and in significant numbers, were established in other cities in the region of Santander, as Ocaña, Barrancabermeja and Cucuta, as in many other towns in the country other than those of the Atlantic coast: Ibagué, Girardot, Honda, Tunja, Villavicencio, Pereira, Soatá, Neiva, Buga, Chaparral or Chinácota. After Barranquilla and Cartagena de Indias, Bogotá stood beside Cali, among cities with the largest number of Arabic-speaking representatives in Colombia in 1945. Some of these immigrants had arrived in the country in the 1890s, others arrived early this century, but a high percentage of them arrived during the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nColombia has become a receptor of migrants from Syria. Since the beginning of the Syrian Civil War in 2011, Colombia has accepted all refugee applications that have been filed within the country.\n"}
{"id": "6327661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6327661", "title": "Technology adoption life cycle", "text": "Technology adoption life cycle\n\nThe technology adoption lifecycle is a sociological model that describes the adoption or acceptance of a new product or innovation, according to the demographic and psychological characteristics of defined adopter groups. The process of adoption over time is typically illustrated as a classical normal distribution or \"bell curve\". The model indicates that the first group of people to use a new product is called \"innovators\", followed by \"early adopters\". Next come the early majority and late majority, and the last group to eventually adopt a product are called \"Laggards\" or \"phobics.\" For example, a phobic may only use a cloud service when it is the only remaining method of performing a required task, but the phobic may not have an in-depth technical knowledge of how to use the service.\n\nThe demographic and psychological (or \"psychographic\") profiles of each adoption group were originally specified by the North Central Rural Sociology Committee, Subcommittee for the Study of the Diffusion of Farm Practices, by agricultural researchers Beal and Bohlen in 1957.\nThe report summarized the categories as:\n\nThe model has subsequently been adapted for many areas of technology adoption in the late 20th century.\n\nThe model has spawned a range of adaptations that extend the concept or apply it to specific domains of interest.\n\nIn his book \"Crossing the Chasm\", Geoffrey Moore proposes a variation of the original lifecycle. He suggests that for discontinuous innovations, which may result in a Foster disruption based on s-curve, there is a gap or chasm between the first two adopter groups (innovators/early adopters), and the vertical markets.\n\nDisruption as it is used today are of the Clayton M. Christensen variety. These disruptions are not s-curve based. \n\nIn educational technology, Lindy McKeown has provided a similar model (a pencil metaphor) describing the ICT uptake in education. In medical sociology, Carl May has proposed normalization process theory that shows how technologies become embedded and integrated in health care and other kinds of organisation.\n\nWenger, White and Smith, in their book \"Digital habitats: Stewarding technology for communities\", talk of technology stewards: people with sufficient understanding of the technology available and the technological needs of a community to steward the community through the technology adoption process.\n\nRayna and Striukova (2009) propose that the choice of initial market segment has crucial importance for crossing the chasm, as adoption in this segment can lead to a cascade of adoption in the other segments. This initial market segment has, at the same time, to contain a large proportion of visionaries, to be small enough for adoption to be observed from within the segment and from other segment and be sufficiently connected with other segments. If this is the case, the adoption in the first segment will progressively cascade into the adjacent segments, thereby triggering the adoption by the mass-market.\n\nOne way to model product adoption is to understand that people's behaviours are influenced by their peers and how widespread they think a particular action is. For many format-dependent technologies, people have a non-zero payoff for adopting the same technology as their closest friends or colleagues. If two users both adopt product A, they might get a payoff \"a\" > 0; if they adopt product B, they get \"b\" > 0. But if one adopts A and the other adopts B, they both get a payoff of 0.\n\nA threshold can be set for each user to adopt a product. Say that a node v in a graph has d neighbors: then v will adopt product A if a fraction p of its neighbors is greater than or equal to some threshold. For example, if v's threshold is 2/3, and only one of its two neighbors adopts product A, then v will not adopt A. Using this model, we can deterministically model product adoption on sample networks.\n\nThe technology adoption lifecycle is a sociological model that is an extension of an earlier model called \"the diffusion process\", which was originally published in 1957 by Joe M. Bohlen, George M. Beal and Everett M. Rogers at Iowa State University and which was originally published only for its application to agriculture and home economics.\nbuilding on earlier research conducted there by Neal C. Gross and Bryce Ryan. Their original purpose was to track the purchase patterns of hybrid seed corn by farmers.\n\nBeal, Rogers and Bohlen together developed a model called \"the diffusion process\" and later, Everett Rogers generalized the use of it in his widely acclaimed book 1962 \"Diffusion of Innovations\" (now in its fifth edition), describing how new ideas and technologies spread in different cultures. Others have since used the model to describe how innovations spread between states in the U.S.\n\n"}
{"id": "14674560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14674560", "title": "Tony Lepore", "text": "Tony Lepore\n\nTony Lepore (born October 17, 1947), aka the Dancing Cop, is a retired American police officer who entertained on the streets of Providence, Rhode Island during the December holiday season while directing traffic using a dancing style.\n\nLepore began dancing in the street in 1984 as a way to relieve boredom. After he retired, city leaders asked that he return during the holiday season in 1992 as a means of attracting people to the downtown area of Providence. He agreed to a contract to return as a reserve police officer.\n\nIn 2015, Providence officials let him go from his decades-long gig directing holiday traffic, allegedly as a result of organizing an anti-Black Lives Matter protest.\n\nLepore also does stage performances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11818606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11818606", "title": "U.S.–Russia Joint Commission on POW/MIAs", "text": "U.S.–Russia Joint Commission on POW/MIAs\n\nThe U.S.–Russia Joint Commission on POWs/MIAs (USRJC) was established in 1992 by the presidents of the United States and the Russian Federation, George H. W. Bush and Boris Yeltsin. The USRJC was established to determine the fates of the United States's and the Soviet Union's unaccounted-for service personnel from World War II, the Korean War, the Cold War (as defined by the USRJC's directive to be specific \"reconnaissance missions\"), Afghanistan and the Vietnam War, Laos and Cambodia.\n\nInformation exchanged between the two parties is then investigated by a spectrum of governmental entities. In the U.S., the Defense Prisoner of War/Missing Personnel Office (DPMO) is the lead agency responsible for personnel accounting and personnel recovery. Numerous sub-agencies and offices are then tasked with further analysis and investigation, both in the US and abroad. The Russian side has established a similar hierarchy of agencies for reporting and vetting information. , the Russian side has yet to formalize certain elements and access within its own Prisoner of War - Missing in Action or Killed in Action but Body Not Recovered program (Interagency Commission for Prisoners of War, Internees, and Missing in Action).\n\nThe USRJC is broken down into four Working Groups which correlate to the four main areas of investigation. There is the World War II Working Group, the Korean War Working Group, the Cold War Working Group and finally, the Vietnam War Working Group, which deals with aspects of the Vietnam War POW/MIA issue. Additionally, the Cold War Working Group is tasked with research into the Soviet-Era GULAG system, forced labor camps, political and psychiatric hospitals, and Soviet detention facilities, in an effort to resolve the continued reporting of US service personnel who were taken to the former Soviet Union.\n\nThe Commission, holds a formal Plenary to discuss a spectrum of issues that involve Prisoners of War and Missing in Action such as; archival access and research, visitation to former Soviet detention facilities and camps, reported gravesites, loss incident reports, shoot-downs, archival reports, Soviet Bloc nation intelligence and reports, information passed on to the Commission and to establish the direction the USRJC and its Working Groups will take. Although the Commission is expected to hold annual Plenaries, it could be up to two years before a formal session is held. Both sides, the US and Russia, have replaced their chairmen within the year. In the interim, Working Group sessions are held to discuss information, intelligence, related issues and to make or address specific inquiries.\n\nThe chairmen are Presidential appointees. In 2007, the corresponding chairmen are: For the US, General Robert H. \"Doc\" Foglesong, U.S. Air Force (Retired), Mississippi State University President. For the Russian Federation, General-Lieutenant Vladimir Shamanov, Russian Army (Retired). Additional members, or Commissioners, of the USRJC represent various governmental agencies that work with the Commission on POW-MIA affairs. Some Commission Members are civilians, some are active duty military personnel.\n\nCommission Members and field personnel travel to or are stationed in numerous Warsaw Pact countries. They continue to interview former military personnel, civilians, former Internees, contract for archival access, research, search military museums, and expand the investigative program in an effort to account for Missing service personnel. The US has a permanent DPMO office at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow.\n\nAt various points in any given year, one nation may host the others researchers, archivists or investigators. In Spring 2004, Russian Archivists were hosted by DPMO. They spent several days at the National Archives and Records Administration in Maryland, discussing technical areas, archival research, how best to use the Russian archives, declassification of documents, and a discussion on preservation of historic materials and documents. Representatives of both official government and private collections of documents and records will attend to share, teach and learn.\n\n"}
{"id": "7966377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7966377", "title": "Vaduge", "text": "Vaduge\n\nBadugé and Vadugé are two ancestral family names used to date by Karava families of Sri Lanka. It denotes 'carpenter' in the Sinhalese language. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "46496280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46496280", "title": "Violence against women in New Zealand", "text": "Violence against women in New Zealand\n\nViolence against women in New Zealand is described as the kinds of violence faced by women disproportionately to men due to factors of ongoing gender inequality in society. The New Zealand government and the New Zealand justice system view efforts to prevent and deal with violence against women as a priority of New Zealand legislation and the criminal justice system. Current laws relating to the prevention and punishment of violence against women are both international and domestic. Despite efforts to decrease the level of violence against women in New Zealand, women still face high levels of violence.\n\nDespite the existence of legislation and social campaigns targeting the reduction of various forms of violence against women, women in New Zealand face high levels of domestic and sexual violence.\n\nData on domestic violence against women in New Zealand is scarce. Data is largely dependent upon reporting and recording practices, and is unlikely to accurately represent the incidence of domestic violence against women in New Zealand. In 2013, there were 6749 incidents of ‘male assaults female’ recorded by the New Zealand Police. In 2013, 2013 Protection Orders were granted by Family Court in accordance with the provisions of the Domestic Violence Act 1995. Ninety percent of respondents named in Protection Order applications were male. In 2013, the National Collective of Independent Women's Refuges received 81,720 crisis calls and 2940 women (and children) accessed safe house services. The Dunedin Multidisciplinary Health and Development Study, a longitudinal cohort study of 1037 people born in Dunedin during 1972-73, found that by age 21, 27 percent of female study members reported they had been physically abused by a partner and 22 percent of male study members reported they had perpetrated violence against their partner. However, in contradiction to many other reports, the Dunedin study also found higher rates of domestic violence against men than against women, with 34 percent of male study members reporting physical abuse by a partner and 37 percent of female study members reporting they had perpetrated violence against their partner.\n\nIn the 2009 New Zealand Crime and Safety Survey (NZCASS), publishing survey data on crime that took place in 2008, sexual offences accounted for 5% of all offences reported in the survey. The New Zealand Police recorded crime for reported sexual offences in 2008 accounted for 1% of all offences. In the NZCASS, 45% of people who had experienced sexual offences considered the incident a crime, 31% considered the incident ‘wrong, but not a crime’, and 23% considered the incident as ‘just something that happens’. Approximately one in four New Zealand women experience unwanted sexual contact in their lifetime, most often by someone known to them. Sexual offending costs the New Zealand economy approximately $1.2 billion NZD each year. In New Zealand in 2008 there were 607 prosecuted cases for rape, of which just 29% resulted in convictions, compared with the 68% conviction rate for all offences. A Ministry of Justice discussion paper exploring improvements to sexual violence legislation reported that around 90 percent of rapes go unreported. This makes it the least likely crime to be reported. Of Police files coded as sexual violation of an adult between 1 July 2005 and 31 December 2007, 95% of violations were of females. Of the perpetrators identified, 99% were male.\n\nThe NZCASS 2014 features \"Improvements in methodologies, systems and statistical processes help make statistics more complete, accurate and useful. As part of the 2014 NZCASS, estimates for both 2006 and 2009 have been revised and recalculated.\" So the above figures can't always be compared to the following figures.\n\nOverall women and men experienced the same amount of violence with 10% of respondents reporting one or more incidents. However, the type of violence was different . Women were more likely to have experienced violence from an intimate partner (5.7% female vs 4.4% male) and men more likely to experience violence from a stranger (2.7% female vs 4.0% male).\n\nIn 2013 an estimated 23.1% of violent interpersonal offences against females were reported to the police. 29.8% of all crime against women was reported to the police. Crimes may have been reported to the police by someone in the victims household, or the victim may have been aware that the police found out about it from another source. There is no statistically significant difference between females and males reporting crimes to the police, or any significant change over time from 2005.\n\n35.4% of females consider their experience of a violent interpersonal offence a crime, 40.9%(with some statistical uncertainty) consider the event to be 'wrong, but not a crime' and 23.7% consider it to be 'just something that happens'.\n\nThe victims perception of the seriousness of the violent interpersonal offence was surveyed. 34.1% of females consider their experience to be 'low' seriousness, 22.4% moderate seriousness, and 43.5% 'high' seriousness. Similar to the results for males.\n\nThe has been a reduction in the reports of coercive control behaviours from their current partner between 2006 and 2013. Females where less likely to report coercive control (14.4% of females vs 17% of males). Most behaviors had similar rates but 9.2% of males reported their partner \"gets angry if speaks to someone who is the same sex as their partner\" compared to 4.8% of females.\n\nLifetime experience estimates are less reliable than asking about incidents in the previous 12 months because memory becomes more of an issue. Also, \"the questionnaire does not explicitly ask this in reference to 'current' partner at the time of incident. Depending on the respondent's interpretation of the question, responses could include incidents by 'ex-partners'. Percentages include people who said 'yes', 'don't know / can't remember' and 'don’t' wish to answer'. The decision to include uninformative responses as if they had said they had experienced violence was based on literature findings that they are likely to be concealing a 'yes' response.\"\n\nOverall there has been a reduction of lifetime reports of violence from partners. In 2006, 29.3% of females reported they had experienced one or more incidents of partner violence (assault, threats of force, threats to damage property, or damage – to property). This went down to 26.1% in 2013.\n\nThere was also a reduction in lifetime sexual violence (forced sexual intercourse, attempted forced sexual intercourse, distressing sexual touching, or 'other sexual violence'). In 2006, 28.3% of females reported a lifetime experience of sexual violence compared to 23.8% in 2014.\n\nBoth lifetime partner violence reports and lifetime sexual violence reports for females are significantly higher for females than males. For partner violence, in 2014, 13.8% of males reported, compared to 26.1% of females. For sexual violence, in 2013, 5.6% of males reported, compared to 23.8% females.\n\nNew Zealand's international treaty obligations require the state to submit periodic reports to the United Nations (UN) Human Rights Council (HRC) under the Universal Periodic Review and to the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women under the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW). Under these obligations, New Zealand is required to uphold its commitments to international human rights, including women's rights, and is subject to the scrutiny and recommendations made by the periodic reviews.\n\nNew Zealand is currently subject to the Universal Periodic Review (UPR) mechanism conducted by the UN Human Rights Council (HRC). New Zealand's most recent UPR was held in 2013/2014.\n\nThe national report submitted by New Zealand in 2013 identified the reduction of violence within families and its disproportionate impact upon women and children as a key priority of the New Zealand Government. The report noted that research in New Zealand had found that \"Victims of the more severe and lethal cases of family violence are predominantly women and children. Women with disabilities and Maori women are a particularly vulnerable group.\"\n\nIn the \"Report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review for New Zealand\", published in April 2014, New Zealand's acknowledgement of the high rate of family violence experienced by women was noted. The report further recognised the Government's commitment to eradicate the problem, including taking steps to reconvene the Family Violence Ministerial Group, the introduction of Police Safety Orders, expanding the definition of domestic violence to include economic and financial abuse, implementing the 2009 Action Plan for New Zealand Women, and implementation of recommendations on the Taskforce for Action on Sexual Violence. Included in the report were recommendations from seventeen other states suggesting measures for the reduction of violence against women in New Zealand. The New Zealand government accepted the majority of these recommendations and detailed the steps taken in carrying out the recommendations.\n\nIn 2013 the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights presented a compilation report on submissions to New Zealand's UPR. The concerns of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women were emphasised.\n\nUnder New Zealand's CEDAW obligations, New Zealand is required to submit periodic reports on the implementation of CEDAW to the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (the Committee). New Zealand's most recent periodic report on its obligations under CEDAW was in 2010/2011. Since 1989, it has been common practice for parties to CEDAW to include in their periodic reports to the Committee information on any legislation protecting women against all kinds of violence, measures adopted to eradicate violence, existence of support systems for women who are the victims of violence, and statistical data on women who are the victims of violence. Furthermore, in 2010 the scope of Article 2 of CEDAW was described to include a due diligence obligation on states to prevent discrimination by private actors.\n\nIn the New Zealand government's report to the Committee in January 2011 it was considered that the reduction of \"the damaging impact of violence against women, in particular sexual violence\" was a priority of the New Zealand government, and that \"violence against women remains cause for immense concern\". The report made the observations that although the recorded rates of family violence in New Zealand were rising, New Zealand had launched social campaigns such as the 'It's not OK' campaign, completed ongoing work through the Taskforce for Action on Violence within Families, and set up the Taskforce for Action on Sexual Violence. The report concluded that, \"Government is committed to reducing violence against women,\" and that, \"there is no acceptable level of family violence and that the notion that family violence is normal or acceptable must be dispelled.\"\n\nIn its concluding observations, issued in August 2012, the Committee noted its concern about the continued high levels of violence against women and low rates of reporting and conviction, particularly in instances of sexual violence, despite progress made. It expressed further concern at \"insufficient\" statistical data on violence against women, particularly against Maori women, migrant women, and women with disabilities. The Committee called upon New Zealand to take steps to encourage reporting of violence against women, to strengthen training for relevant authorities in dealing with violence against women, to provide assistance and protection services for women victims of violence, and to ensure systematic collection and publication of disaggregated data, and \"monitor effectiveness of legislation, policy and practice to all forms of violence against women and girls.\"\n\nNew Zealand provided information in the follow-up to the concluding observations elucidating changes being made to better use and collect data regarding violence against women, including steps to ensure the collection and analysis of disaggregated data. The government response to the Committee's concluding observations also discussed changes to the Domestic Violence Act 1995 and the taking of a \"long-term approach\" to ending family violence through promoting changes in attitude and behaviours.\n\nThe Domestic Violence Act 1995 was enacted to ensure the legal protection for victims of any physical, sexual, and psychological domestic violence. The Domestic Violence Act 1995 provides, through the Family Court, a civil procedure for obtaining a 'protection order' requiring perpetrators of domestic violence to desist, and attend \"stopping violence\" programmes for the prevention of family violence. The New Zealand Police can also issue immediately effective 'Police Safety Orders' requiring the person issued with the order to leave the address of the victim for up to five days. Criminal courts may also issue protection orders during sentencing for a domestic violence offence.\n\nSexual offences are defined in the Crimes Act 1961. The crime of rape or unlawful sexual connection requires that the accused did not have the person's consent and did not believe on reasonable grounds that the person was consenting. A 2008 discussion document issued by the Ministry of Justice called for submissions on the inclusion of ‘positive consent’, the inclusion of broader investigation into the surrounding circumstances in determining whether the accused had reasonable grounds for consent, and the extension of the ‘rape shield’ to limit a defendant's ability to question a complainant about their past sexual behaviour. Furthermore, the question was raised over the models and practices of the current justice system in dealing with sexual violence. In 2009 the Taskforce for Action on Sexual Violence produced a report including recommendations on preventing sexual violence, creating specialist front-line services for victims and offenders, reforming criminal justice, and approaches to end sexual violence. The report recommended the completion of a Sexual Violence Prevention Plan, a review of funding for crisis support services, legislative changes to the Accident Compensation Corporation scheme, legislative amendments to the Crimes Act 1961, and an exploration of alternative justice in cases of sexual offences. The New Zealand government responded to the report in September 2010, however it was noted by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women in 2012 that many of the recommendations in the report have yet to be implemented.\n\nThe Campaign for Action on Family Violence (the 'It's Not OK' campaign) uses advertising, social media and community-projects to develop information, understanding, and advice surrounding family violence prevention. According to research, one in three people report taking some form of action to prevent family violence as a result of the Campaign. The Campaign focuses upon changing attitudes and behaviour towards violence within families through leadership, safety and accountability, and effective support services.\n\nThe Ministry for Women is a government department that advises the government on women's economic independence, leadership, and safety from violence. The Ministry for Women in New Zealand provides research publications on issues effecting women, including violence against women generally and its effect on particular groups of women. New Zealand's international obligations in relation to the status of women are primarily managed by the Ministry of Women, and their role includes the promotion of consistency between international and domestic law protecting the interests and well-being of women.\n\nIn New Zealand, the Women's Refuge is a community support service that provides crisis line support, information, planning services, and education and training programmes on the prevention of violence against women in New Zealand. Women's Refuge works to promote social discussion on domestic violence and to inform public debate.\n\nThe New Zealand Family Violence Clearinghouse provides an online catalogue and depository for resources, statistics, and publications on family violence in New Zealand.\n\nIn February 2015 the New Zealand Ministry for Women released a report stating that Māori women are twice as likely as other New Zealand women to experience some form of violence. This is mostly due to the epidemic of whānau violence; a wider form of domestic violence including intimate partner violence (IPV), child abuse, elder abuse, parental abuse, sibling abuse, or any other family member abuse.\n\nWhilst family violence occurs in all socio-economic groupings in New Zealand, Maori are over represented as both the victims and perpetrators.\n\nThe predominant concern for entities such as the-then New Zealand Families Commission is partner violence; with Māori women being at a three times higher risk of IPV than other women.\n\nAnother chief concern of government agencies such as the Ministry of Social Development is child abuse.\nJust over half of Child, Youth and Family clients whom have at least one substantiated abuse finding are Māori. Of this total number, a little over half are girls meaning that Māori girls are at a higher risk than any other children in New Zealand of experiencing abuse.\n\nOther forms of whānau violence are not as largely represented in statistics, however they still make up for a moderate percentage of violence against Māori women. Between 2011 and 2012 Māori women were the most common gender and ethnic group to be admitted to hospital following assault with the perpetrator being identified as a family member. More than two thirds of the total number of assault hospitalisations were women and half of the total were Māori. Of these cases, about 19% of the perpetrators were identified as ‘other' family members, with spouse/domestic partners being the outstanding perpetrators.\n\nThe major contributing factors for family violence in New Zealand is social and economic disadvantage regarding education, employment, health, housing and income. \nHardship experienced by Māori is seen as a key factor which, when combined with other factors, significantly increases the risk of whānau violence.\n\nUnemployment rates for young Māori women who are under 25 years of age are twice that of European women, with more than one in four Māori youth in the labour market being unemployed.\nFor those who are employed, the median income is significantly lower than that of other ethnicities such as New Zealand European; with the median income for Māori over the age of 15 being $22,500.\n\nBeneficiaries and those in sole parent households are also at a much higher risk to fall victim to family violence than other women. Currently, Māori make up for almost a third of the total proportion of beneficiaries in New Zealand. Further hardship in regards to housing is illustrated by Statistics New Zealand findings from 2006, estimating that almost a quarter of Māori live in crowded households.\n\nThe highest rates of IPV have been found to occur within young families, signalling that age is another contributing factor to violence. Statistics New Zealand show that the Māori population is largely young. This factor combined with social and economic hardship may be the reason for over representation of Māori in family violence statistics in New Zealand.\n\nIn a study of a group of Māori women who have experienced whānau violence, the women identified financial dependence on other family members, in particular partners/spouses, as a key contributing factor for violence. They identified the link beginning at education through to employment opportunities and adequate income with freedom of choice, independence, safety and equal power and control.\n\nStemming from social and economic factors contributing to violence against Māori women is the use of drugs and alcohol by Māori. Drug and alcohol use is influenced by easy accessibility in low-income neighbourhoods due to a high number of alcohol outlets, community norms of heavy binge drinking and use of illegal drugs and use as a coping mechanism for poverty, poor health and racism.\n\nWhilst rates of alcohol-related assault vary widely in different populations of women, five percent of all women in New Zealand have reported physical assault due to someone else's drinking. This rate is significantly higher for young women, women living in deprived areas, and Māori women.\n\nIn a 2009 survey by the Ministry of Health, Māori women were found to be almost four times more likely than non-Māori women to have been assaulted in the past year by someone under the influence of drugs or alcohol. Furthermore, significantly more Māori victims of violent incidents committed by a partner or other well-known person said the offender was affected by drugs (45%) or alcohol (59%), as opposed to European victims (22% and 35% respectively).\n\nThe Mauri Ora framework was created by the Second Māori Taskforce on whānau violence to further the current understanding of whānau violence. \nThe framework acknowledged that whānau violence is a learned and practiced behaviour that has become normalised and entrenched through several generations.\n\nThis concern, that violence and abuse is a learned behaviour, is supported by findings that children who are raised within violent family environments do not understand the negative consequences of the use of violence and are more likely to adopt violent behaviour within their own families as they mature. Children who witness violence between their parents are also at a much greater risk of later adjustment difficulties such as antisocial behaviours.\n\nFor this reason, the Second Māori Taskforce on whānau violence labelled whanau violence as an epidemic, acknowledging that the objective of zero tolerance of whānau violence would take time to become unlearned.\n\nThe Ministry of Health has suggested that Māori women and children often use health and community services later than others, meaning that when they do their injuries and issues are more serious.\n\nCommunity organisations such as the New Zealand Women's Refuge have attempted to make their services more accessible to Māori women and children experiencing whānau violence by providing culturally appropriate services. Of the 45 local refuges around New Zealand, 14 ‘whares’ (houses) have been specifically designed by Māori for wahine (Māori women) and their tamariki (children) and whānau. The whares’ aim to eliminate violence whilst promoting Māori values such as the wellbeing of whānau, promoting mana (strength), transformation and creating support within the wider community.\n\nFigures from 2011 and 2012 support the introduction of these specialised refuges for Māori women as half of the total number of women who used Women's Refuge services were identified as Māori.\n\nThe Ministry for Women acknowledge that when dealing with violence there are three stages of prevention, namely, primary (before violence occurs, with a focus on large groups) and secondary and tertiary (after violence occurs, with a targeted focus on victims and offenders). The Ministry has noted that previously most primary prevention approaches for violence against women specifically targeted women but has recently begun to include men and boys. The aim of this is to educate men and boys, as partners, to promote respectful, non-violent relationships in which each partner feels safe and supported. \nThe shift towards engaging boys and men in the prevention of violence against women recognizes that men are the primary perpetrators of violence against women. It also encourages male socialisation and encourages non-violent men to serve as positive role models and to act as active bystanders to prevent and intervene in situations involving violence towards women.\n\nThe New Zealand Department of Corrections has recognised that whānau violence perpetrators have a range of individual problems such as anger, hostility and personality disorders from having witnessed or suffered abuse as children. \nCurrent prevention techniques include providing education, information and support services to implement changes in attitude and behaviour for not only the victims and perpetrators of whānau violence but also for the whānau and wider community. The focus on the wider community is of particular importance as it focuses on the large scale of whānau violence and aims to shift attitudes and norms within the Māori culture.\n\nAnother culturally sensitive prevention technique is the Mauri Ora framework which incorporates Maori principles and values such as whakapapa (genealogy), tikanga (general behaviour guidelines for daily life and interaction within the Māori culture), wairua (spirit), tapu (forbidden/sacred values), mauri (the essence of emotions), and mana (power). These cultural constructs help to give priority to Māori culture, knowledge and identity when addressing the issue of whānau violence. They also help non-Māori to understand the different approach required on the path to eliminating whānau violence. The framework aims to apply the principles in practice when facing contemporary issues of today such as colonisation. This is a fairly new approach focussing on the preservation of Māori values within the environmental and contextual influences of modern New Zealand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45379758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45379758", "title": "World Avocado Congress", "text": "World Avocado Congress\n\nThe World Avocado Congress (WAC) is a quadrennial meeting of avocado producers, researchers, marketers and other interested parties from several countries, for the purpose of information sharing and networking.\n\nThe event was founded by Jan Toerien. The first WAC was held in Johannesburg, South Africa in 1987. During the planning session for the second WAC in 1999 Dr. Mary-Lu Arpaia, a researcher from the University of California Riverside, proposed that an International Avocado Society (IAS) be formed and charged with the responsibility of organizing the WAC every four years. It was accepted by vote and the IAS was formed, with representatives from different countries selected for its initial organizing committee. At the first meeting of these representatives on 26 April 1991, Hank Brokaw and Dr. Arpaia was elected as co-chairs.\n"}
{"id": "7997715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7997715", "title": "Youth work actions", "text": "Youth work actions\n\nYouth work actions (Serbo-Croatian: \"Omladinske radne akcije\", often abbreviated to \"ORA\", Slovenian: \"Mladinske delovne akcije\") were organized voluntary labor activities of young people in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The actions were used to build public infrastructure such as roads, railways, and public buildings, as well as industrial infrastructure. The youth work actions were organized on local, republic and federal levels by the Young Communist League of Yugoslavia, and participants were organized into youth work brigades, generally named after their town or a local national hero. Important projects built by youth work brigades include the Brčko-Banovići railway, the Šamac-Sarajevo railway, parts of New Belgrade, and parts of the Highway of Brotherhood and Unity, which stretches from northern Slovenia to southern Macedonia.\n\nInitial actions were organized during the Second World War in territories liberated by the partisans. After the war, actions were numerous and massive and the youth brigades made significant contributions to the rebuilding of their country, which was badly ravaged by war. In addition to cheap labor for the state, youth work actions provided a form of free holiday for teenagers.\n\nAs the country was rebuilt and its economy stabilized, youth work actions went out of fashion. However, they were revived in the late 1970s, in an effort to voluntary organize youth in political and cultural activities, as the work actions proved to play a large role in the socialization of those involved. \n\n\n"}
