{"id": "22032208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22032208", "title": "1927 Milan–San Remo", "text": "1927 Milan–San Remo\n\nThe 1927 Milan–San Remo was the 20th edition of the Milan–San Remo. The winner was Pietro Chesi (Italy).\n"}
{"id": "29396699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29396699", "title": "1995 Dhivehi League", "text": "1995 Dhivehi League\n\nStatistics of Dhivehi League in the 1995 season.\n\nNew Radiant SC won the championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "23707957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23707957", "title": "1996 Warsaw Cup by Heros", "text": "1996 Warsaw Cup by Heros\n\nThe 1996 Warsaw Cup by Heros was a women's tennis tournament played on outdoor clay courts at the Warszawianka Tennis Centre in Warsaw, Poland that was part of Tier III of the 1996 WTA Tour. It was the second edition of the tournament and was held from 16 September until 22 September 1996. Unseeded Henrieta Nagyová won the singles title.\n\n Henrieta Nagyová defeated Barbara Paulus 3–6, 6–2, 6–1\n\n Olga Lugina / Elena Pampoulova defeated Alexandra Fusai / Laura Garrone 1–6, 6–4, 7–5\n\n"}
{"id": "23791409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23791409", "title": "2004 World Interuniversity Games", "text": "2004 World Interuniversity Games\n\nThe 2004 World Interuniversity Games were the sixth edition of the Games (organised by IFIUS), and were held in Antwerp, Belgium.\n\n"}
{"id": "52445544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52445544", "title": "2017 in women's road cycling", "text": "2017 in women's road cycling\n\n2017 in women's road cycling is about the 2017 women's bicycle races ruled by the UCI and the 2017 UCI Women's Teams.\n\n<noinclude>\n\nThe World Road Championships is set to be held in Bergen, Norway.\n\n† The clock symbol denotes a race which takes the form of a one-day time trial.\n\nSource\n\nThe country designation of each team is determined by the country of registration of the largest number of its riders, and is not necessarily the country where the team is registered or based.\n"}
{"id": "58396604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58396604", "title": "2019 Suncorp Super Netball season", "text": "2019 Suncorp Super Netball season\n\nThe 2019 Suncorp Super Netball season will be the third season of the premier netball league in Australia. The season will begin on 27 April and conclude on 15 September 2019, however it will break for most of the month of July due to the Netball World Cup, which will be played in Liverpool.\n\nSunshine Coast Lightning are the defending premiers.\n\nThe season is played over fourteen rounds, allowing every team to play each other twice, once at home and once away. The top four teams on the ladder at the conclusion of the regular season qualify for the finals series. In the first week of the finals series, the 1st ranked team hosts the 2nd ranked team in the major semi-final (with the winner of that match to qualify for the Grand Final) and the 3rd ranked team hosts the 4th ranked team in the minor semi-final (with the loser of that match eliminated). The loser of the major semi-final then hosts the winner of the minor semi-final in the preliminary final. The winner of the major semi-final then hosts the winner of the preliminary final in the Grand Final.\n\nAt the start of Super Netball in 2017, all players were contracted for a maximum of two years in line with the initial collective bargaining agreement negotiated by the players' association. Clubs were free to re-sign existing players in the last few weeks of the 2018 season, before the transfer window opened for unimpeded acquisitions at the end of the season. Clubs were given until 25 September 2018 to finalise their rosters for the 2019 season. \n\nThe following table is a list of players who moved clubs/leagues into Super Netball, or were elevated into a permanent position in the senior team, during the off-season. It does not include players who were re-signed by their original Super Netball clubs.\nThe following table is a list of players who left Super Netball clubs at the end of the previous season and joined a foreign club. It does not include players who retired from Super Netball at the end of the previous season.\n"}
{"id": "9970719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9970719", "title": "38th Chess Olympiad", "text": "38th Chess Olympiad\n\nThe 38th Chess Olympiad, organized by FIDE and comprising an open and a women's tournament, as well as several other events designed to promote the game of chess, took place between 12–25 November 2008 in Dresden, Germany. There were 146 teams in the open event and 111 in the women's event. In total, 1277 players were registered.\n\nBoth tournament sections were officiated by international arbiter Ignatius Leong (Singapore). In a change from recent Olympiads, the number of rounds of the Swiss system were reduced from 13 to 11 with accelerated pairings. For the first time, the women's division, like the open division, was played over four boards per round, with each team allowed one alternate for a total of five players. In another first, the final rankings were determined by match points, not game points. In the event of a draw, the tie-break was decided by 1. Deducted Sonneborn-Berger; 2. Deducted sum of match points; 3. Game points.\n\nThe time control for each game permitted each player 90 minutes their first 40 moves and 30 minutes for the rest of the game, with an additional 30 seconds increment for each player after each move, beginning with the first. As a new rule, no draws by agreement were permitted before 30 moves had been completed. Yet there were games drawn as soon as the 16th move, formally drawn by repetition against which there was no rule. In addition, players who were not present at the board at the commencement of a round automatically forfeited the game. This rule was implemented to align chess with other sports events.\n\nThe open division was contested by 146 teams representing 141 nations. Germany, as hosts, fielded three teams, whilst the \"International Braille Chess Association\" (IBCA), the \"International Physically Disabled Chess Association\" (IPCA), and the \"International Committee of Silent Chess\" (ICSC) each provided one squad. Morocco were signed up, but never appeared for their first round match and were disqualified.\n\nDefending champions Armenia, once again led by Levon Aronian, clinched their second consecutive title. Despite being seeded only eighth, they won nine out of eleven matches, drew against fourth-placed Ukraine and lost only (1½-2½) to runners-up Israel, captained by Boris Gelfand. The Israelis finished one point behind Armenia. The United States, led by Gata Kamsky, took the bronze medals on a better tie break score than Vasyl Ivanchuk and the rest of the Ukrainian team after defeating Ukraine (3½-½) in the last round.\n\nOnce again, the Russian team under captain Vladimir Kramnik were the pre-tournament favourites but finished disappointingly in fifth place. Kramnik, having recently lost a world championship match, performed well below his rating, as did the rest of the team, except alternate Dmitry Yakovenko who won the reserve board.\nArguably the biggest surprise of the tournament was Vietnam, who weren't even seeded in the top 30, but still managed to finish in ninth place, aided somewhat by the new tournament structure which allotted them some weaker opponents, although they did manage a 2-2 result against China. The German hosts finished 13th, while India, without World Champion Viswanathan Anand, had to settle for 16th place.\n\nIn addition to the overall medals, prizes were given out to the best teams in five different seeding groups—in other words, the teams who exceeded their seeding the most. Overall medal winners were not eligible for group prizes.\n\nFor the first time, all board prizes were given out according to performance ratings. Accordingly, there was no overall prize, although Sargissian on the third board had the best performance of all players at the tournament:\n\n\nThe women's division was contested by 111 teams representing 106 nations. Germany, as hosts, fielded three teams, whilst the \"International Braille Chess Association\" (IBCA), the \"International Physically Disabled Chess Association\" (IPCA), and the \"International Committee of Silent Chess\" (ICSC) each provided one squad.\n\nGeorgia won their fourth title, 12 years after the third one, narrowly defeating Ukraine on tie breaks. The two teams didn't meet during the tournament, but when the Ukrainians only drew their penultimate match against Serbia while the Georgians defeated former champions China (2½-1½), the gold was Georgia's to lose. In the last round they record a win (3-1) against the Serbian, who thus came to play a crucial role in the fight for the title, despite finishing in seventh place themselves. The Georgian team were led by former World Champion, 47-year-old Maia Chiburdanidze, who delivered a stellar performance, winning the top board with the best performance of the tournament.\n\nThe United States clinched the bronze medals on tie breaks, just ahead of Russia (with newly crowned World Champion Alexandra Kosteniuk) and Poland. The German hosts finished in 21st place.\n\nFor the first time, all board prizes were given out according to performance ratings. Accordingly, there was no overall prize, although reborn ex-champion Chiburdanidze on the top board had the best performance of all players at the tournament:\n\n\nThe Nona Gaprindashvili Trophy is awarded to the nation that has the highest total number of match points in the open and women's divisions combined. Where two or more teams are tied, they are ordered by the same tie breakers as in the two separate events.\n\nThe trophy, named after the former women's World Champion (1961–78), was created by FIDE in 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5832666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5832666", "title": "Académica do Mindelo", "text": "Académica do Mindelo\n\nAssociação Académica do Mindelo (Capeverdean Crioulo, ALUPEC or ALUPEK: \"Akadémika\", São Vicente Crioulo: \"Académica\" or \"Akadémika\") is a football club that had played in the Premier division and the São Vicente Island League in Cape Verde. It is based in the city of Mindelo on the island of São Vicente and plays in a stadium with a capacity of 5,000. The club is an affiliate of the Portuguese club Académica de Coimbra. It is one of the first teams ever to win a provincial title before independence, in 1953, a year later. There was no further competition until 1956. Académica won their first title since independence in 1989. Other titles includes four for the island including their recent 2006/07 season win and two opening tournaments along with their recent win.\n\nAcadémica Mindelo is one of the most successful football (soccer) clubs in Cape Verde and the island of São Vicente, having won about 18 official titles, 4 are national and the remaining 14 are regional titles.\n\nThere is an educational academy named Académica do Mindelo (Mindelo Academy) located in the city. The club has no relation to that academy. Today the main etymology is with the academy in the city.\n\nThe club was founded on April 1, 1940, the first of the Académica affiliate in both Cape Verde and West Africa.\n\nAcadémica do Mindelo celebrated its 50th anniversary of the club's foundation in 1990 and later celebrated its 75th anniversary in 2015.\n\nAcadémica became the region's third club to have a title won in 1948, the club was had the third most until 1964, with the exception of 1961 to 1963 when it was second with Amarante. After winning their fourth title in 1964, they possess the second most number of titles in São Vicente, their last one was won in 2007 and was the last they appeared in the nationals, the title total became tied with FC Derby since 2014.\n\nWith Alexandre Alhinho as coach in the late 1980s, it would be a successful year for the club, they won a title in 1987, in 1989, they were runner up in the regionals behind Mindelense. Later in the 2000s, the club had good players such as Carlos Lima, Sténio and Kadú. Later on, Kadú chose to play with Mindelense. From 2007 to 2009, the best player in the club was Sténio, a year later, he moved to the same club where Kadú went.\n\nIn the Opening Tournament, Académica was the island's third club to possess a title done in 2002, from 2003, their rankings became second behind almighty Mindelense, Académica won their second and final title that became the Association Cup won in the 2006-07 season and was solely the second club to possess the most titles. In 2010, their titles became shared with Derby and Académica's totals is now third behind Derby.\n\nAcadémica do Mindelo participated in the 2007 regional super cup played in 2008 and claimed their only title after defeating FC Derby, their title totals was also shared with that club and from 2010 Batuque. Académica as cup winner came back to challenge the champion Batuque in the 2010 super cup played in 2011, it was the club's second and final appearance and lost the title to that club. Académica's super cup title total became third with Derby behind Batuque, their title total was shared with Falcões do Norte from 2013, from 2017, the club's single title total became fourth and last alongside Falcões.\n\nAcadémica Mindelo was relegated once in the early to mid 2010s to the Second Division, the club returned to the Premier Division in the 2014–15 season after being in the top two positions. The sponsor for the 2014–15 season was MOAVE. Also in the season, the club celebrated its 75th anniversary on April 1. Académica finished 7th which brought them to their promotional match that the club won six in the first match over Castilho, the second match was tied at three, with a total of nine goals, Académica was kept in the Premier Division.\n\nAcadémica participate in the 2016 Association Cup, the club finished sixth in the Pemier Division with 7 points and two wins, the club scored 7 goals alongside Farense which was second in the Premier Division. In the same time, Académica's title totals is now shared with Batuque's. The 2016-17 season had a good start and up to the middle of the week had their positions above Mindelense. In the first part of the season, Calú was with the club. The club was thought to be first place up to the 13th round (originally with 29 points), in April, Derby made a protest that the club was using a goalkeeper with a fake identity. On April 24, the Disciplinary Council of the Cape Verdean Football Federation, removed every points that the fake goalkeeper had played totalling 11 and included one with Salamansa, Derby, Farense, the almighty Mindelense and Ribeira Bote, from February 25, they were the first three matches and the last two matches on April 15. Their positions were dropped from first to fifth and also, their National qualification was lost., all this will remove the coach from the club and formed the club's part of some match fixing. The second place position was replaced by FC Derby, earlier positions were also changed, the club was actually third, then fifth and their points was 18. But they did well on an April 1 match over Falcões do Norte as no fake goalkeeper took part. After that, Académica's final match of the season was a win over Derby 0-2 and finished third with 21 points and had 7 wins and losses behind CS Mindelense and FC Derby, Farense took the fifth position and fourth was Batuque.\n\nAcadémica Mindelo started the regional season with the association cup, Académica Mindelo lost the first round match and Académica Mindelo is in the mid position at the sixth round already unable to win another title. Académica finished fourth place, better than last season, they also had 10 points, three wins, a win more than last season, and a draw the same, yet again scored seven goals, sixth and last in the Premier Division, shared with Ribeira Bote. Académica Mindelo started the 2017-18 regional Premier Division championships in the second week of December with a victory over Ribeira Bote, up next were fourth straight losses, first to the almighty Mindelense, then Castilho, then the non-powerful Salamansa and recently Batuque, currently the club is sixth place. During the break in the Premier Division on January 20, 2018, the regional cup begun, it seemed they were successful in that competition as they defeated Ribeira Bote in penalties after the match ended without any goals scored. Académica continued their worst, a very minimal relief the club made with two consecutive draws with three goals each in rounds 7 and 8. Académica lost to their rival Mindelense on February 24, and is seventh with a small chance of a probable decisional matches and a very small chance of another relegation. Académica recently made a win over Castilho and has eight points and 13 goals. A week later, unexpectedly suffered a loss to Salamansa and had a small chance of relegation but a mid to high chance of decisional matches, a level inescapable up to the 13th round. Académica had 14 goals scored, fourth in the region alongside Castilho. Another loss the club suffered, it was to Batuque and had one last chance of escaping the relegation zone by the final round, partial or wholly with two more matches, a loss to Derby, then victory over Farense Fonte Filipe on March 30, Académica finished 7th and repeatedly headed to play in the division decisional matches with second placed Ponta d'Pom. On April 7, they defeated Ponta d'Pom 0-2 in the first leg, the second leg ended in a two goal draw, with 4 goals over 2, Académica became pleased that they will remain in the Premier Division next season.\n\nAcadémica was the first champion of the Cape Verdean Provincial (Colonial) Championships as they defeated Vitória da Praia 2-0, the club also scored the first goals of the colonial era. The total was shared with Mindelense in 1954 and the totals became second behind that club from 1956, their totals was later shared with Sporting Praia in 1961 and Boavista Praia two years later. Académica won another title in 1964 after defeating Sporting Praia 2-0 and won another title which remained second and it became two. Three years later, Académica Mindelo defeated Praia's Travadores 2-0 in the 1967 championships and won their third and final provincial title, overall they were still second in totals. In 1972, Académica went for an attempt for another title which is being the last one during Portuguese rule. Once more they faced Travadores, the first leg ended in a double goal draw and lost the second leg 1-0 and the title, this was also their last appearance before independence three years later. Académica Mindelo scored a total of 9 goals at the provincial championships, one the second highest behind Mindelense.\n\nAfter winning their 1987 regional title, the club competed in the national championships and lost a match and was knocked out. As Mindelense won the 1988 national title, Académica was runner-up and headed all the way to the 1989 finals to claim their only national title after defeating SC Santa Maria from the island of Sal.\n\nIn 1995, Académica Mindelo was among the three clubs who entered the triangular phase, they included Boa Vista's Académica Operária and Santiago's Boavista da Praia. The club never competed two matches as they withdrew and together with Académica Operária, lost the title to Boavista da Praia.\n\nAcadémica Mindelo enjoyed the 2004 season and had three wins, two draws and 11 points similarly to other clubs including Sal's Académico do Aeroporto and Boa Vista's Sal Rei. Sal Rei had 12 goals scored in the regular season coming second, the club had 11 goals scored and was immediately out of the competition. Académica do Mindelo had two draws first with Académico do Aeroporto at the first round with a goal, then a scoreless one with Sal Rei on May 22.\n\nThe team won their tenth and final insular title and entered the national division in 2007, the club was first in Group A with 13 points and won four matches, and scored the most in the nation with 16 goals. After several years, the team managed to head into the finals and challenged their rival from the island of Santiago Sporting Clube da Praia. The first leg of the match was nil each and the second leg was tied at one. The most points went to the opponent and lost the national title to Sporting in mid-July, earlier than early-August. Académica fans were worried and did not celebrate the victory. Kadú scored the most goals at the nationals, numbering nine.\n\nThe club and plays in the Adérito Sena Stadium with a capacity of once served up to 4,000, now serves 5,000 after the renovation, it is named after one of the first players of the club Adérito Carvalho da Sena (1905–1970). Mindelense, FC Derby, Amarante and Batuque are the other major clubs of the city and the island playing in that stadium along with GS Castilho. Batuque also trains at the stadium.\n\nIts logo is identical with Académica de Coimbra, the only difference is it has the letter M. It is also the logo for basketball and athletics.\n\nThe logo and the uniform as well as other teams with the name Académica and Académico in Cape Verde are identical to Académica de Coimbra. From 2015 to 2017, its clothing were supplied by MOAVE. Its clothing are currently supplied by Nike.\n\nAcadémica's only rivalry is with CS Mindelense, one of the longest in Cape Verde and the second longest in the region. After the creation of the regional division in 2008, the rivalry did not appear in one part of the early 2010s up until 2014 as Académica played in the Second Division. It appeared in other regional competitions.\n\nAt the national rival, their rival was with Sporting Praia from the island of Santiago Sporting's rivalry with Académica Mindelo entirely disappeared today, a tiny part was the national championship restructuring for the upcoming 2017 season done in November 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOther clubs include basketball and volleyball.\n\nAcadémica do Mindelo has its own basketball club. It is a member of the São Vicente Regional Basketball Association.\n\nIts games are played at Polidesportivo do Mindelo located next to Estádio Municipal Adérito Sena forming the São Vicente Sports Complex.\n\nAcadémica do Mindelo won their national competition title in 2013/14.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4149460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4149460", "title": "Alpine skiing combined", "text": "Alpine skiing combined\n\nCombined is an event in alpine ski racing. A traditional combined competition consists of one run of downhill and two runs of slalom, each discipline run on separate days. The winner is the skier with the fastest aggregate time. (Until the 1990s, a complicated point system was used to determine placings in the combined event.) A modified version, the super combined, is a speed race (downhill or super-G) and only one run of slalom, with both portions scheduled on the same day.\n\nThe first World Championships in 1931 did not include the combined event, but it was added to the program in 1932. Alpine skiing at the Winter Olympics was not included until 1936, and the combined was the only event. The combined was one of three medal events at the next Olympics in 1948, along with downhill and slalom. The combined used the results of the only downhill race with two runs of combined slalom. The regular slalom (two runs) was held the following day.\n\nWith the introduction of giant slalom at the world championships in 1950, the combined event disappeared from the Olympics for four decades, until re-introduced in 1988. From 1948 through 1980, the Winter Olympics also served as the world championships, with two sets of medals awarded. The world champion in the combined was determined \"on paper\" by the results of the three races of downhill, giant slalom, and slalom. The top three finishers in the combined event were awarded world championship medals by the FIS, but not Olympic medals from the IOC. This three-race paper method was used from 1954 through 1980; no FIS medals were awarded for the combined in 1950 or 1952. A separate downhill and slalom for the combined event was added to the world championships in 1982, and the Olympics in 1988.\n\nThe world championships were held annually from 1931 through 1939, were interrupted by World War II, and resumed as a biennial event at the 1948 Olympics, held in even-numbered years through 1982. They skipped the 1984 Olympics and have been scheduled for odd-numbered years since 1985. (The 1995 event was postponed to 1996, due to lack of snow in southeastern Spain.)\n\nAt the Winter Olympics and world championships, the slalom and downhill portions of a combined event are run separately from the regular downhill and slalom events on shorter, and often less demanding, race courses. On the World Cup circuit, traditional combined events have been \"paper races,\" combining skiers' times from a separately scheduled downhill race and slalom race, generally held at the same location over two days. In 2005, the FIS began to replace these \"calculated\" combineds with super combined events, held on one day, which administrators hope will result in increased participation.\n\nA modified version, the super combined, is a speed race (downhill or super-G) and only one run of slalom, with both portions scheduled on the same day.\nThe first super combined was a World Cup race held in 2005 in Wengen, Switzerland, on January 14th; Benjamin Raich of Austria was the winner. The first women's race in the new format was run six weeks later in San Sicario, Italy; won by Croatia's Janica Kostelić on February 27th. The 2006 World Cup calendar included three super combineds and just one traditional combined race on the men's side, while the women raced two super combineds and no traditional combineds. Kostelić won the first three women's World Cup super combineds.\n\nBeginning with the 2007 season, the FIS began awarding a fifth discipline-champion \"crystal globe\" to the points winner of combined races; the 2007 season included five combined races for each gender. Nine out of the ten scheduled combineds use the new super-combined format, the only exception was Kitzbühel, Austria, which continued with the traditional two-run format (K), albeit in a \"paper race.\" The change to super combined expectedly resulted in major disapproval from the slalom specialists, the loudest critic being Ivica Kostelić. Even with the change to a single slalom run, many speed skiers believe the technical racers have the advantage in the super combined.\n\nThe super combined format debuted at the world championships in 2007 in Åre, Sweden, and at the Winter Olympics in 2010 at Whistler, Canada.\n\nIn the following table men's combined (super combined from 2007) World Cup podiums in the World Cup since first edition in 1976.\n"}
{"id": "753936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=753936", "title": "BB&amp;T Center (Sunrise, Florida)", "text": "BB&amp;T Center (Sunrise, Florida)\n\nThe BB&T Center (previously known as the National Car Rental Center, Office Depot Center, and BankAtlantic Center) is an indoor arena located in Sunrise, Florida. It is the home venue for the National Hockey League (NHL)'s Florida Panthers. It was completed in 1998, at a cost of US$185 million, almost entirely publicly financed, and features 70 suites and 2,623 club seats.\n\nIn 1992, Wayne Huizenga obtained a new NHL franchise that would eventually become the Florida Panthers. Until the team had an arena of their own, they initially played at the now-demolished Miami Arena, sharing the venue with the NBA's Miami Heat. Sunrise City Manager Pat Salerno made public a $167-million financing and construction plan for a civic center near the Sawgrass Expressway in December 1995, and Broward County approved construction in February 1996. In June 1996, the site was chosen by the Panthers, and in July, Alex Muxo gathered more than a dozen architects, engineers and contractors for the first major design brainstorming session. Architects Ellerbe Becket were given 26 months to build the arena, which had to be ready by August 30, 1998, to accommodate the 1998–99 NHL season. Despite never having designed a facility that had taken less than 31 months from start to finish, they accepted the job.\n\nSeventy suites were completed with wet bars, closed circuit monitors and leather upholstery. Averaging over , the suites are the largest in the country for this type of facility. All the activity was generated by over 50 subcontractors and 2.3 million man hours without a single injury. Known as Broward County Civic Center during construction, the naming rights were won in July 1998 by National Car Rental—a company purchased by Huizenga in January 1997—leading to the venue being named the National Car Rental Center. A certificate of occupancy was given on September 12, and the arena opened on October 3 with a Celine Dion concert. The next day, Elton John performed, and on October 9 the Panthers had their first home game at the new arena.\n\nAs NRC's new parent company ANC Rental went bankrupt in 2002, the Panthers sought a new sponsor for the arena. It later became the Office Depot Center in the summer of 2002, and the BankAtlantic Center on September 6, 2005. As BB&T purchased BankAtlantic in July 2012, two months later the arena was rebranded as BB&T Center.\n\nBB&T Center is currently the largest arena in Florida and second-largest in the Southeastern United States, behind Greensboro Coliseum.\n\nDuring the 2011 offseason, the BB&T Center replaced the original green seats in the lower bowl with new red seats, as a part of the Panthers' \"We See Red\" campaign.\n\nIn October 2012, Sunrise Sports and Entertainment completed installation of the Club Red seating sections encompassing the center ice seats during hockey games. It is an all-inclusive nightclub experience following the trend of other sports and entertainment venues in incorporating high-end seating sections and clubs.\n\nThe ADT Club located on the club level offers food and beverage. The Duffy's Sky Club at the BB&T Center encompasses approximately 8,000 square feet and caters to approximately 500 guests. The Penalty Box offers fans another seating and dining option inside the BB&T Center. The Legends Lounge is a restaurant located on the Lexus Suite Level and offers sit down service.\nThe BB&T Center is also the home for private lounge box seating.\n\nOn May 14, 2013, Broward County voted to fund a new scoreboard for the county-owned BB&T Center On October 11, 2013, the scoreboard made its debut for the Panthers' 2013–14 home opener.\n\nIn addition to the Panthers, the arena was formerly home to the Florida Pit Bulls of the American Basketball Association, the Miami Caliente of the Lingerie Football League, and the Florida Bobcats of the AFL, along with the only season of the Florida ThunderCats. This arena also serves as the host for the Orange Bowl Basketball Classic held every December in conjunction with the namesake college football game.\n\nThe arena has also hosted the 2003 NHL All-Star Game and the 2006 ABA All-Star game.\n\n\nThe arena has held boxing and mixed martial arts events such as featuring the main event of Seth Petruzelli and Kimbo Slice took place on October 4, 2008. On February 15, 2009, a lightweight bout between Nate Campbell and Ali Funeka took place in the arena.\n\nStrikeforce MMA made their debut at the arena on January 30, 2010, with the event on Showtime.\n\n\nThe Professional Bull Riders brought their Built Ford Tough Series tour to the BB&T Center in September 2005 for a bull riding event, which was won by Kody Lostroh (who ultimately became the Rookie of the Year that same year).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6880278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6880278", "title": "Black Irish (film)", "text": "Black Irish (film)\n\nBlack Irish is a 2007 drama film written and directed by Brad Gann.\n\nSixteen-year-old Cole McKay’s struggle for independence is put to the test as his South Boston Irish-Catholic family implodes around him. Older brother Terry is descending into a life of drugs and crime, pregnant sister Kathleen is being sent away to cover up the shame of unwed motherhood and Cole’s father, Desmond, spends his days in a fog of alcohol and self-pity, silently torturing himself over what might have been. The one thing keeping young Cole’s head above water is his love of baseball. The movie starts with Cole practicing his pitching, when he is picked up by his family to attend the funeral of Desmond's sister. A talented baseball pitcher, Cole overcomes self-doubt and family indifference to fight his way into the state championships. To get there however, he must make a life and death decision, one that will change the McKay family forever.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3566643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3566643", "title": "Botswana at the 1992 Summer Olympics", "text": "Botswana at the 1992 Summer Olympics\n\nBotswana competed at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain.\n\nMen's 400 metres\n\nMen's 800 metres\n\nMen's 1500 metres\n\nMen's 5000 metres\n\nMen's Marathon\n\nMen's Light-Heavyweight (– 81 kg) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "44488652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44488652", "title": "China at the 2012 Asian Beach Games", "text": "China at the 2012 Asian Beach Games\n\nChina was participate in the 2012 Asian Beach Games in Haiyang, China on 16–22 June 2012.\n\nChina also won 14 gold medals, 10 silver medals, 12 bronze medals and a total of 39 medals, finishing first on the medal table.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15833875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15833875", "title": "Des Moines Coliseum", "text": "Des Moines Coliseum\n\nThe Des Moines Coliseum was a building located in Des Moines, Iowa. Opened in 1908, it served as the main venue for large public events in Des Moines for four decades. Herbert Hoover launched his 1932 re-election campaign from the Coliseum, and several other U.S. Presidents spoke there, including Woodrow Wilson, Theodore Roosevelt, and William Howard Taft. Drake University played basketball in the Coliseum for a number of years, and it was used for wrestling, boxing, ice skating, and circus events. It was destroyed by fire on August 13, 1949. A YMCA was later built on the site, but that was torn down in 2015 and the site now sits empty (as of 2016).\n\n"}
{"id": "27478964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27478964", "title": "Dominican Summer League Reds", "text": "Dominican Summer League Reds\n\nThe Dominican Summer League Reds are a minor league baseball team of the Dominican Summer League. They are located in Boca Chica, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, and play their home games at Ciudad de Baseball. The team plays in the Boca Chica Baseball City division and is affiliated with the Cincinnati Reds.\n\n"}
{"id": "6056474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6056474", "title": "Estadio Cristóbal Labra", "text": "Estadio Cristóbal Labra\n\nEstadio Cristóbal Labra opened in the 1940s as Municipal Stadium, in Nueva Gerona on the Isla de la Juventud. With 5,000 seats, it is the smallest in the Cuban National Series and was the only stadium without lights.\n"}
{"id": "33915734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33915734", "title": "Fantazzle", "text": "Fantazzle\n\nFantazzle was a fantasy sports website that allowed users to play daily, weekly, and seasonal fantasy sports games. Some of the games they offered were free, while others required a monetary deposit. Every game Fantazzle offered resulted in an immediate cash prize. The website has since been shut down.\n\nFantazzle launched in September 2008. They are members of the Fantasy Sports Trade Association (FSTA). In January 2009, Fantazzle was recognized jointly by the FSTA and the Fantasy Football Librarian as the winner of the 2008 Fantasy Football Projection Accuracy Challenge in its first year.\n\nIn 2010, Fantazzle released a white paper on the impact of fantasy sports has on workplace productivity. With multiple sources and facts, Fantazzle stated that fantasy sports did not slow down workplace productivity. They proposed that many businesses are not negatively affected by employees engaging in the activity. The white papers went on to say that fantasy sports have proved to be a valuable team building exercise that leads to increased employee loyalty.\n\nIn 2010, Fantazzle picked up a sponsorship from current Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice. Ray Rice had this to say about Fantazzle: \"Wanted you all to check out Fantazzle Fantasy Games. Fantazzle has cool fantasy games for baseball, racing, golf and, of course, football. In the upcoming months, we'll have a Ray Rice fantasy football game I'll be sponsoring with free autographed and cash prizes.” Later in 2010, Fantazzle worked with the then-New York Giants receiver and current St. Louis Ram Steve Smith in a push to have him voted into the Pro Bowl. Fantazzle offered merchandise autographed by Steve Smith to those that won select fantasy games.\n\nFantazzle offers fantasy football, fantasy baseball, fantasy soccer, fantasy basketball, fantasy golf, fantasy racing, fantasy hockey, fantasy poker, and fantasy games for March Madness. In 2011, Fantazzle became one of the first daily fantasy sports websites to offer college football fantasy games. Fantazzle also added fantasy games for the Lingerie Football League in 2011.\n\nFantazzle offers daily games, weekly games, twice-a-week games, monthly games, and season-long games. In addition to traditional fantasy sports formats, Fantazzle offers a Pick ‘em game, which allows users to choose different players that are matched up one-on-one with another similar player for a particular stat. Users would then pick which player will have a better performance in that stat. For example, one quarterback would be matched up against another quarterback, and touchdown passes would be compared. If the user chose QB1, who ended up passing for 100 yards and 2 TD, and QB2 passed for 200 yards and 1 TD, then the user would win, because only touchdown passes counted for that matchup. These matchups can be with any position and any sport.\n\nFantazzle is also affiliated with a number of blogs, including Weekly Fantasy Sportal, Fantasy Football Sportal, and Fantasy Baseball Sportal. These blogs are updated periodically to give users fantasy sports advice. Fantazzle also offers a podcast, in which discussions on different fantasy sports are discussed.\n"}
{"id": "2889155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2889155", "title": "Federated States of Micronesia national football team", "text": "Federated States of Micronesia national football team\n\nThe Federated States of Micronesia national football team is the national team of the Federated States of Micronesia and is controlled by the Federated States of Micronesia Football Association. The team is not a member of FIFA, or a regional confederation, and therefore cannot compete in the World Cup.\n\nThe team has only played a handful of matches, the last in 2003. In 2015 the Under-23 team suffered a series of heavy defeats at the Pacific Games, though the presence of a side at the tournament was intended to be the first step towards having a more permanent national team with FIFA recognition.\n\nAs of 3 January 2004:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "706147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706147", "title": "Field lacrosse", "text": "Field lacrosse\n\nField lacrosse is a full contact outdoor men's sport played with ten players on each team. The sport originated among Native Americans, and the modern rules of field lacrosse were initially codified by Canadian William George Beers in 1867. Field lacrosse is one of three major versions of lacrosse played internationally. The other versions, women's lacrosse (established in the 1890s) and box lacrosse (originated in the 1930s), are played under significantly different rules.\n\nThe object of the game is to use a lacrosse stick, or crosse, to catch, carry, and pass a solid rubber ball in an effort to score by shooting the ball into the opponent's goal. The triangular head of the lacrosse stick has a loose net strung into it that allows the player to hold the lacrosse ball. In addition to the lacrosse stick, players are required to wear a certain amount of protective equipment. Defensively the object is to keep the opposing team from scoring and to dispossess them of the ball through the use of stick checking and body contact. The rules limit the number of players in each part of the field. It is sometimes referred to as the \"fastest sport on two feet\".\n\nLacrosse is governed internationally by the 59-member Federation of International Lacrosse, which sponsors the World Lacrosse Championships once every four years. A former Olympic sport, attempts to reinstate it to the Olympics have been hampered by insufficient international participation. Field lacrosse is played professionally in North America by Major League Lacrosse. It is also played on a high amateur level by the National Collegiate Athletic Association in the United States, the Australian Senior Lacrosse Championship series, and the Canadian University Field Lacrosse Association.\n\nLacrosse is a traditional Native American game. According to Native American beliefs, playing lacrosse is a spiritual act used for healing and giving thanks to the \"Creator\". They would also play the game to resolve minor conflicts between tribes that were not worth going to war for, thus the name \"little brother of war\". These games could last several days and as many as 100 to 1,000 men from opposing villages or tribes played on open plains, between goals ranging from to several miles apart.\n\nThe first Europeans to observe it were French Jesuit missionaries in the St. Lawrence Valley, in the 1630s. The name \"lacrosse\" comes from their reports, which described the players' sticks as like a bishop's crosier—\"la crosse\" in French. The Native American tribes used various names: in the Onondaga language it was called \"dehuntshigwa'es\" (\"they bump hips\" or \"men hit a rounded object\"); \"da-nah-wah'uwsdi\" (\"little war\") to the Eastern Cherokee; in Mohawk, \"tewaarathon\" (\"little brother of war\"); and \"baggataway\" in Ojibwe. Variations in the game were not limited to the name. In the Great Lakes region, players used an entirely wooden stick, while the Iroquois stick was longer and was laced with string, and the Southeastern tribes played with two shorter sticks, one in each hand.\n\nIn 1867, Montreal Lacrosse Club member William George Beers codified the modern game. He established the Canadian Lacrosse Association and created the first written rules for the game, \"Lacrosse: The National Game of Canada\". The book specified field layout, lacrosse ball dimensions, lacrosse stick length, number of players, and number of goals required to determine the match winner.\n\nField lacrosse involves two teams, each competing to shoot a lacrosse ball into the opposing team's goal. A lacrosse ball is made out of solid rubber, measuring 7.75 to 8 inches (19.7–20 cm) in circumference and weighing 5 to 5.25 ounces (140–149 g). Each team plays with ten players on the field: a goalkeeper; three defenders in the defensive end; three midfielders free to roam the whole field; and three attackers attempting to score goals in the offensive end. Players are required to wear some protective equipment, and must carry a lacrosse stick (or crosse) that meets specifications. Rules dictate the length of the game, boundaries, and allowable activity. Penalties are assessed by officials for any transgression of the rules.\n\nThe game has undergone significant changes since Beers' original codification. In the 1930s, the number of players on the field per team was reduced from twelve to ten, rules about protective equipment were established, and the field was shortened.\n\nA standard lacrosse field is in length from each endline, and in width from the sidelines.\n\nField lacrosse goals are centered between each sideline, positioned from each endline and apart from one another. Positioning the goals well within the endlines allows play to occur behind them. The goal is wide by tall, with nets attached in a pyramid shape. Surrounding each goal is a circular area known as the \"crease,\" measuring in diameter.\n\nIf a player enters the \"crease\" while shooting toward the goal, the referee will call a foul and the ball gets turned over to the other team.\n\nA pair of lines, from both the midfield line and each goal line, divides the field into three sections. From each team's point of view, the one nearest its own goal is its defensive area, then the midfield area, followed by the attack or offensive area. These trisecting lines are called \"restraining lines.\" A right angle line is marked from each sideline connecting each endline to the nearer restraining line, creating the \"restraining box.\" If an official deems that a team is \"stalling,\" that is not moving with offensive purpose while controlling the ball, the possessing team must keep the ball within the offensive restraining box to avoid a loss-of-possession penalty.\n\nField markings dictate player positioning during a face-off. A face-off is how play is started at the beginning of each quarter and after each goal. During a face-off, there are six players (without considering goalkeepers) in each of the areas defined by the restraining lines. Three midfielders from each team occupy the midfield area, while three attackmen and three of the opposing team's defensemen occupy each offensive area. These players must stay in these areas until possession is earned by a midfielder or the ball crosses either restraining line. Wing areas are marked on the field on the midfield line from each sideline. This line indicates where the two nonface-off midfielders per team lineup during a face-off situation. These players may position themselves on either side of the midfield line. During a face-off, two players lay their sticks horizontally next to the ball, head of the stick inches from the ball and the butt-end pointing down the midfield line. Once the official blows the whistle to start play, the face-off midfielders scrap for the ball to earn possession and the other midfielders advance to play the ball. If possession is won by the face-off player, he may move the ball himself or pass to a teammate.\n\nThe rules also require that substitution areas, a penalty box, coaches area, and team bench areas be designated on the field.\n\nA field lacrosse player's equipment includes a lacrosse stick, and protective equipment, including a lacrosse helmet with face mask, lacrosse gloves, and arm and shoulder pads. Players are also required to wear mouthguards and athletic supporter with cup pocket and protective cup.\n\nEach player carries a lacrosse stick measuring long (a \"short crosse\"), or long (a \"long crosse\"). In most modern circles the word \"crosse\" has been replaced by \"stick\" and the terms \"short stick\" and \"long stick\" or \"pole\" are used. On each team up to four players at a time may use a long crosse: the three defensemen and one midfielder. The crosse is made up of the head and the shaft (or handle). The head is roughly triangular in shape and is loosely strung with mesh or leathers and nylon strings to form a \"pocket\" that allows the ball to be caught, carried, and thrown. In field lacrosse, the pocket of the crosse is illegal if the top of the ball, when placed in the head of the stick, is below the bottom of the stick's sidewall. \n\nThe maximum width of the head at its widest point must be between . From 1.25-inches up from the bottom of the head, the distance between the sidewalls of the crosse must be at least 3 inches. Most modern sticks have a tubular metal shaft, usually made of aluminum, titanium, or alloys, while the head is made of hard plastic. Metal shafts must have a plastic or rubber cap at the end.\n\nThe sport's growth has been hindered by the cost of a player's equipment: a uniform, helmet, shoulder pads, hand protection, and lacrosse sticks. Many players have at least two lacrosse sticks prepared for use in any contest. Traditionally players used sticks made by Native American craftsman. These were expensive and, at times, difficult to find. The introduction of the plastic heads in the 1970s gave players an alternative to the wooden stick, and their mass production has led to greater accessibility and expansion of the sport.\n\n \nThe goalkeeper's responsibility is to prevent the opposition from scoring by directly defending the by goal. A goalkeeper needs to stop shots that are capable of reaching over , and is responsible for directing the team's defense.\n\nGoalkeepers have special privileges when they are in the crease, a circular area surrounding each goal with a radius of . Offensive players may not play the ball or make contact with the goalkeeper while he is in the crease. Once a goalkeeper leaves the crease, he loses these privileges.\n\nA goalkeeper's equipment differs from other players'. Instead of shoulder pads and elbow pads, the goalkeeper wears a chest protector. He also wears special \"goalie gloves\" that have extra padding on the thumb to protect from shots. The head of a goalkeeper's crosse may measure up to wide, significantly larger than field players'.\n\nA defenseman is a player position whose responsibility is to assist the goalkeeper in preventing the opposing team from scoring. Each team fields three defensemen. These players generally remain on the defensive half of the field. Unless a defenseman gets the ball and chooses to run up the field and try to score or pass, by doing this they will need to cross the midfield line and signal one midfielder to stay back. A defensemen carries a long crosse which provides an advantage in reach for intercepting passes and checking.\n\nTactics used by a defensemen include body positioning and checking. Checking is attempting to dispossess the opposition of the ball through body or stick contact. A check may include a \"poke check\", where a defensemen thrusts his crosse at the top hand or crosse of the opponent in possession of the ball (similar to a billiards shot), or a \"slap check\", where a player applies a short, two-handed slap to the hand or crosse of the opponent in possession of the ball. A \"body check\" is allowed as long as the ball is in possession or a loose ball is within five yards of the opposing player and the contact is made to the front or side of the torso of the opposing player. Defensemen preferably remain in a position relative to their offensive counterpart known as \"topside\", which generally means a stick and body position that forces a ball carrier to go another direction, usually away from the goal.\n\nMidfielders contribute offensively and defensively and may roam the entire playing area. Each team fields three midfielders at a time. One midfielder per team may use a long crosse, and in this case is referred to as a \"long-stick midfielder.\" Long-stick midfielders are normally used for defensive possessions and face-offs but can participate in offense as long as he is not subbed off.\n\nOver time, the midfield position has developed into a position of specialties. During play, teams may substitute players in and out freely, a practice known as \"on the fly\" substitution. The rules state that substitution must occur within the designated exchange area in front of the players' bench. Teams frequently rotate the midfielder specialists off and on the field depending on the ball possession. Some teams have a designated face-off midfielder, referred to as a \"fogo\" midfielder (an acronym for \"face-off and get-off\"), who takes the majority of face-offs and is quickly substituted after the face-off. Some teams also designate midfielders as \"offensive midfielders\" or \"defensive midfielders\" depending on their strengths and weaknesses.\n\nEach team fields three attackmen at a time, and these players generally remain on the offensive half of the field. An attackman uses a short crosse. These are the players who score most of the goals.\n\nDuration of games depends upon the level of play. In international competition, college lacrosse, and Major League Lacrosse, the total playing time is 60 minutes, composed of four 15-minute quarters. High school games typically consist of four 12-minute quarters but can be played in 30-minute halves, while youth leagues may have shorter games. The clock typically stops during all dead ball situations such as between goals or if the ball goes out of bounds. The method of breaking a tie generally consists of multiple overtime periods of 5 minutes (4 in NCAA play) in which whoever scores a goal is awarded a sudden victory. A quicker variant of the sudden victory is the Braveheart method in which each team sends out one player and one goalie; it is then sudden victory. International lacrosse plays two straight 5-minute overtime periods, and then applies the sudden victory rule if the score is still tied.\n\nTeams must advance the ball or be subjected to loss of possession. Once a team gains possession of the ball in their defensive area, they must move the ball over the midfield line within 20 seconds. If the goalkeeper has possession of the ball in the crease he must pass the ball or vacate the area within four seconds. Failure by the goalkeeper to leave the crease will result in the opposite team being given possession just outside the restraining box. Once the ball crosses the midfield line, a team has 10 seconds to move the ball into the offensive area designated by the restraining box or forfeit possession to their opponents. The term used to define moving the ball from the defensive to offensive area is to \"clear\" the ball. Offensive players are responsible for \"riding\" opponents, in other words attempting to deny the opposition a free \"clear\" of the ball over the midfield line.\n\nIf a ball travels outside of the playing area, play is restarted by possession being awarded to the opponents of the team which last touched the ball, unless the ball goes out of bounds due to a shot or a deflected shot. In that case, possession is awarded to the player that is closest to the ball when it leaves the playing area.\n\nFor most fouls, the offending player is sent to the penalty box and his team has to play without him and with one fewer player for a short amount of time. Penalties are classified as either personal fouls or technical fouls. Personal fouls are of a more serious nature and are generally penalised with a 1-minute suspension. Technical fouls are violations of the rules that are not as serious as personal fouls, and are penalised for 30 seconds or a loss of possession. Occasionally a longer penalty may be assessed for more severe infractions. Players penalised for 6 personal fouls must sit out the game. The penalised team is said to be playing man down defense while the other team is on the man up, or playing \"extra man offence.\" During a typical game, each team will have three to five extra man offence opportunities.\n\nPersonal fouls (PF) include slashing, tripping, illegal body checking, cross checking, unsportsmanlike conduct, unnecessary roughness, and equipment violations. While a stick-check (where a player makes contact with the opposition player's stick in order to knock the ball loose) is legal, a slashing violation is called when a player viciously makes contact with an opposing player or his stick. An illegal body check penalty is called for any contact where the ball is further than from the contact, the check is from behind, above the shoulders or below the knees, or was avoidable after the player has released the ball. Cross checking, where a player uses the shaft of his stick to push the opposition player off balance, is illegal in field lacrosse. Both unsportsmanlike conduct and unnecessary roughness are subject to the officiating crew's discretion, while equipment violations are governed strictly by regulations.\n\nTechnical fouls include holding, interference, pushing, illegal offensive screening (usually referred to as a \"moving pick\"), \"warding off\", stalling, and off-sides. A screen, as employed in basketball strategy, is a blocking move by an offensive player, by standing beside or behind a defender, to free a teammate to shoot, or receive a pass; as in basketball players must remain stationary when screening. Warding off occurs when an offensive player uses his free hand to control the stick of an opposing player.\n\nOffside has a unique implementation in field lacrosse. Instituted with rule changes in 1921, it limits the number of players that are allowed on either side of the midfield line. Offside occurs when there are fewer than three players on the offensive side of the midfield line or when there are fewer than four players on the defensive half of the midfield line (note: if players are exiting through the special-substitution area, it is not to be determined an offside violation).\n\nA technical foul requires that the defenceman who fouled a player on the opposing team be placed in the penalty box for 30 seconds. As with a personal foul, until the penalty time expires, no replacement for the player is allowed and the team must play one man short. The player (or a replacement) is allowed to reenter the game once the time in the penalty box is over and the team is thus once again at full strength.\n\nCollege lacrosse, a spring sport in the United States, saw its earliest program established by New York University in 1877. The first intercollegiate tournament was held in 1881 featuring four teams: New York University, Princeton University, Columbia University, and Harvard University. This tournament was won by Harvard. The United States Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association (USILA) was created in 1885, and awarded the inaugural Wingate Memorial Trophy to the University of Maryland as national champions in 1936. The award was presented to the team (or teams) with the best record until the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) instituted a playoff system in 1971. The NCAA sponsored its premier Men's Lacrosse Championship with the 1971 tournament where Cornell University defeated University of Maryland in the final. In addition to the three divisions in the NCAA, college lacrosse in the United States is played by non-varsity Men's Collegiate Lacrosse Association and National College Lacrosse League club teams.\nLacrosse was first witnessed in England, Scotland, Ireland and France in 1867 when a team of Native Americans and Canadians traveled to Europe to showcase the sport. The year after, the English Lacrosse Association was established. In 1876, Queen Victoria attended an exhibition game and was impressed, saying, \"The game is very pretty to watch.\" Throughout Europe, lacrosse is played by numerous club teams and is overseen by the European Lacrosse Federation. Lacrosse was brought to Australia in 1876. The country sponsors various competitions among its states and territories that culminate in the annual Senior Lacrosse Championship tournament.\n\nIn 1985, the Canadian University Field Lacrosse Association (CUFLA) was established, with twelve universities in the Ontario and Quebec provinces competing in the intercollegiate league. The league plays its season during the autumn. Unlike the NCAA, the CUFLA allows players that are professional box lacrosse players in the National Lacrosse League to participate, stating that \"although stick skills are identical, the game play and rules are different\".\n\nProfessional field lacrosse made its first appearance in 1988 with the formation of the American Lacrosse League, which folded after five weeks of play. In 2001, professional field lacrosse resurfaced with the inception of Major League Lacrosse (MLL), whose teams, based in the United States and Canada, play during the summer. The MLL modified its rules from the established field lacrosse rules of international, college, and high school programs. To increase scoring, the league employed a sixty second shot clock, a two point goal for shots taken outside a designated perimeter, and reduced the number of long sticks to three rather than the traditional four. Prior to the 2009 MLL season, after eight seasons, the league conformed to traditional field lacrosse rules and allowed a fourth long crosse. The MLL has been bolstered by a ten year television contract with ESPN in 2007.\n\nThe Federation of International Lacrosse (FIL) is the international governing body of lacrosse and it oversees field, women's and box lacrosse competitions. In 2008, the \"International Lacrosse Federation\" and the \"International Federation of Women's Lacrosse Associations\" merged to form the FIL. The former \"International Lacrosse Federation\" was founded in 1974 to promote and develop the game of men's lacrosse throughout the world. The FIL now sponsors the World Lacrosse Championship and Under-19 World Lacrosse Championships which are played under field lacrosse rules. It also oversees the World Indoor Lacrosse Championship played under box lacrosse rules, and the Women's Lacrosse World Cup and an under-19 championship under women's lacrosse rules.\n\nLacrosse at the Olympics was a medal-earning sport in the 1904 Summer Olympics and the 1908 Summer Olympics. In 1904, three teams competed in the games held in Saint Louis, Missouri. Two Canadian teams, the Winnipeg Shamrocks and a team of Mohawk people from the Iroquois Confederacy, and an American team represented by the local St. Louis A.A.A. lacrosse club participated, and the Winnipeg Shamrocks captured the gold medal. The 1908 games held in London, England, featured only two teams, representing Canada and Great Britain. The Canadians again won the gold medal in a single championship match by a score of 14–10.\nIn the 1928 Summer Olympics, 1932 Summer Olympics, and the 1948 Summer Olympics, lacrosse was a demonstration sport. The 1928 Olympics featured three teams: the United States, Canada, and Great Britain. The 1932 games featured a three-game exhibition between a Canadian All-star team and the United States. The United States was represented by Johns Hopkins Blue Jays lacrosse in both the 1928 and 1932 Olympics. In order to qualify, the Blue Jays won tournaments in the Olympic years to represent the United States. The 1948 games featured an exhibition by an \"All-England\" team organized by the English Lacrosse Union and the collegiate lacrosse team from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute representing the United States. This exhibition ended in a 5–5 tie.\n\nThere are obstacles to reestablishing lacrosse as an Olympic sport. One hurdle was resolved in 2008, when the international governing bodies for men's and women's lacrosse merged to form Federation of International Lacrosse. Another obstacle is insufficient international participation. In order to be considered as an Olympic sport the game must be played on four continents, and with at least a total of 75 countries participating. According to one US Lacrosse representative in 2004, \"it’ll take 15-20 years for us to get there.\" For the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia and 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia, efforts were made to include lacrosse as an exhibition sport, but these failed.\n\nThe World Lacrosse Championship began as a four-team invitational tournament in 1967 sanctioned by the International Lacrosse Federation. The 2006 World Lacrosse Championship featured a record twenty-one competing nations. The 2010 World Lacrosse Championship took place in Manchester, England. Only United States, Canada, and Australia have finished in the top two places of this tournament. Since 1990, the Iroquois Nationals, a team consisting of the Six Nations of the Iroquois Confederacy members, have competed in international competition. This team is the only Native American team sanctioned to compete in any men's sport internationally. The Federation of International Lacrosse also sanctions the Under-19 World Lacrosse Championships. The 2008 Under-19 World Lacrosse Championships included twelve countries, with three first-time participants: Bermuda, Finland, and Scotland.\n\nOther regional international competitions are played including the European Lacrosse Championships, sponsored by the twenty-one member European Lacrosse Federation, and the eight team Asian Pacific Lacrosse Tournament.\n\nLacrosse attendance has grown with the sport's popularity. The 2008 NCAA Division I Men's Lacrosse Championship was won by Syracuse University, beating Johns Hopkins University 13–10, in front of a title game record crowd of 48,970 fans at Gillette Stadium. The 2007 NCAA Division I Men's Lacrosse Championship weekend held at M&T Bank Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland, was played in front of a total crowd of 123,225 fans for the three-day event. The current attendance record for a regular season lacrosse-only event was set by the 2009 Big City Classic, a triple-header at Giants Stadium which drew 22,308 spectators. The Denver Outlaws hold the professional field lacrosse single-game attendance record by playing July 4, 2010 in front of 23,443 fans.\n\nAt the 1932 Olympics in Los Angeles, California, over 145,000 spectators watched the three-game series between the United States and Canada, including 75,000 people who witnessed the first game of the series while in attendance to watch the final of the marathon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54703112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54703112", "title": "French Polynesia at the 2017 World Championships in Athletics", "text": "French Polynesia at the 2017 World Championships in Athletics\n\nFrench Polynesia competed at the 2017 World Championships in Athletics in London, Great Britain, from 4–13 August 2017.\n"}
{"id": "517833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=517833", "title": "Funbox", "text": "Funbox\n\nA funbox is a standard element of a skatepark. It generally consists of a box shape with a flat top and a ramp on two or more sides. A funbox may also include other elements that allow for more complicated skateboarding tricks.\n\nLike other skatepark features, funboxes are used by skateboarders, inline-skaters and BMX-riders.\n\nTable-top - The main characteristic of a funbox is the standard table-top; the flat top of the main structural \"box\" component. The table-top can vary in height and surface area.\n\nRamps - To allow access to the table-top, a funbox will generally be surrounded (on two or more sides) by ramps or stairs to allow tricks or transitions on, off or over the table-top.\n\nOther elements - A funbox may also include a number of other elements including ledges, rails, spines, copings, angled ramps, wall sections to allow \"wallrides\" and improvised street furniture pieces.\n\nA funbox with ramps on opposite sides may allow for the conduct of aerial tricks. As such, funboxes are commonly placed in line with the \"outlet\" of a larger ramp to allow for a build-up of speed. Typically, a funbox with ramps or transitions on all sides of the table will be placed in the middle of a park.\n\nFunboxes are generally constructed of concrete (as a permanent element in a skatepark) or wood (as a moveable or customizable element for street skateboarding). Some variations include steel frames and both concrete and wood constructions will often include steel copings or rails. Some funboxes will be constructed in sections to allow for further customization.\n\nThe construction must resist dynamic structural load resulting from aerial tricks or jumps onto the funbox.\n"}
{"id": "1666060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1666060", "title": "Guillermo Ramírez", "text": "Guillermo Ramírez\n\nGuillermo \"El Pando\" Ramírez Ortega (born 26 March 1978 in Livingston, Guatemala) is a Guatemalan former soccer player who was suspended for life from any soccer related activities due to his participation in money laundering and fixing games along with fellow national team members Yony Flores and Gustavo Cabrera.\n\nRamírez was also the captain of the Guatemala national team.\n\nHe played the 2005 season on loan for the Los Angeles Galaxy of Major League Soccer. He struggled, scoring a lone goal during the regular season, but in the playoffs, in his only appearance, as a substitute in the MLS Cup Final, he scored the game-winner in extra time to give Galaxy its second MLS title. This feat was in high contrast with his poor scoring percentage in the MLS regular season, with 62 shots and 1 goal, which incidentally came from a penalty.\n\nRamírez is perhaps the most unlikely MLS Cup MVP in league history. He was widely lampooned for his poor shooting and during the ’05 campaign failed to connect on any of his 62 attempts during open play – his only goal came on a penalty kick. Relegated to the bench, Ramírez entered the scoreless Cup final between L.A. and the New England Revolution in 66th minute. In the 107th, with penalty kicks looming, the Guatemalan hit a stunning volley from just outside the penalty area to lift the Galaxy to their second league title.\n\nRamírez was gone the following season and went on to play in Guatemala and Honduras.\n\nAfter the 2005 MLS season, Ramírez went back to Municipal, where he remained until 2009, helping the team win four league championships during that period. He then joined C.D. Marathón in the Honduran 2009–2010 league season and had a respectable tournament; he scored in the final to earn the league championship. The following year, he rejoined Municipal, but then in January 2011 he signed a 6-month contract with F.C. Motagua where head coach Ramón Maradiaga wanted him because of the type of player he was under his tenure managing the Guatemala national team. He appeared in the 2011–12 CONCACAF Champions League Preliminary Round, scoring the last goal of a 4–0 win for Motagua against his former club Municipal.\n\nRamírez, 34, along with one-time Real Salt Lake defender Gustavo Cabrera and Yony Flores, also a defender, were found guilty by the National Football Federation of Guatemala in September of conspiring to fix a pair of national team exhibitions and a CONCACAF Champions League game between CSD Municipal and Mexico's Santos Laguna.\n\nThe trio played together at Municipal in the fall of 2010, when the club finished behind Santos and the Columbus Crew in its first-round group.\n\nBanned from the sport inside their native country, the players saw their exile extended worldwide on Wednesday.\n\nRamírez made his debut for Guatemala in an April 1997 UNCAF Cup match against Costa Rica and has earned 103 caps since. He has been part of the qualification processes for the World Cups of 2002, 2006, 2010, and 2014. He captained the squad that reached the final stage of the 2006 World Cup qualification. On 27 May 2012, Ramirez was separated from the Guatemala National Team on basis of suspected \" to arrange a match's result of Guatemala against South Africa in 2010 \". On June 2012, this was confirmed by a team mates, Luis Rodriguez and Carlos Ruiz. Currently Ramirez is under FIFA investigation as well as by the Ministerio Publico of Guatemala for treason, money laundering and the investigations are still being made.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51066173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51066173", "title": "HCM Slobozia (women's handball)", "text": "HCM Slobozia (women's handball)\n\nHCM Slobozia is a women's handball club from Slobozia, Romania, that plays in the Romanian Women's Handball League since 2014.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10418735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10418735", "title": "Hipódromo Chile", "text": "Hipódromo Chile\n\nHipódromo Chile is a thoroughbred horse race track in the municipality of Independencia, in the Santiago Metropolitan Region of Chile. It is one of two race tracks in Greater Santiago.\n\nThe track was founded in 1904 by a group of 19 owners, breeders and supporters. It is one of Chile's three main tracks, the others being Club Hipico de Santiago and Valparaiso Sporting Club.\n\nHipodromo Chile features a roughly triangular left-handed dirt track of slightly more than 1 mile (exactly 1.645m). Of the three main race tracks in Chile, it is the only one that does not have a turf track.\n\nLive racing is conducted every Saturday and most Thursdays. As usual for Chile's major tracks, 18 to 20 races on a single raceday are common.\n\n"}
{"id": "4657644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4657644", "title": "Honduras at the 1988 Summer Olympics", "text": "Honduras at the 1988 Summer Olympics\n\nHonduras competed at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, Korea.\n\nMen's 400 metres\n\nMen's 400 m Hurdles\n\nMen's 20 km Walk\n\nMen's Light-Flyweight (– 48 kg)\n\nMen's Middleweight (– 75 kg)\n\nMen's 50 m Freestyle\n\n\nMen's 100 m Freestyle\n\n\nMen's 100 m Backstroke\n\nMen's 200 m Backstroke\n\nMen's 100 m Butterfly\n<br>\nWomen's 50 m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 100 m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 100 m Backstroke\n\nWomen's 200 m Backstroke\n\nWomen's 100 m Butterfly\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "44065328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44065328", "title": "Horseback riding simulators", "text": "Horseback riding simulators\n\nHorseback riding simulators are intended to allow people to gain the benefits of therapeutic horseback riding or to gain skill and conditioning for equestrian activity while diminishing the issues of surrounding cost, availability, and individual comfort level around horses. Horseback therapy has been used by many types of therapists (i.e.: physical, occupational, and speech therapists) to advance their physical, mental, emotional, and social skills.\n\nSimulators used for therapeutic purposes can be used anywhere (i.e.: clinic or a patient home), do not take up much space, and can be programmed to achieve the type of therapy desired. Additionally, difficulty level can be set by the therapist and increased gradually in subsequent sessions to reflect the patient’s progress and abilities. Some people use these simulators as personal exercise machines to tone core muscles in an easy and low-impact manner.\n\nProducts that attempt to accurately imitate the movement of a real horse and are sometimes used for therapeutic purposes as well as for developing equestrian skills or conditioning are the Equicizer, an American-developed mechanical product that resembles the body of a horse, imitates the movement of a horse, and can be used at slower speeds for therapeutic and rehabilitation purposes. Another product that resembles and moves like a real horse is the line of Racewood Equestrian Simulators, with 13 models to imitate actual movement of horses in various disciplines, including a simple walk and trot model.\n\nSimulators that do not resemble horses but imitate certain aspects of equine motion are popular in some Asian countries such as Japan and South Korea, in part because land for keeping actual horses is quite limited. One such commercial product is the Joba, created in Japan by rehabilitation doctor Testuhiko Kimura and the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company. The Joba does not resemble a horse, but rather just looks like a saddle, with plastic handle and stirrups, attached to a base that allows it to pitch and roll, exercising core muscles. A similar product manufactured in the US is a stool-like device called the iGallop, which was commercially available in the mid 2000s and moves in a side-to-side and circular motion with various speed settings. However, it was criticized for not delivering the results claimed.\n\nThere has been increased research regarding use of horseback riding simulators compared to conventional therapy methods. One 2011 study by Borges et al. compared children with cerebral palsy and postural issues who received conventional therapy to similar children who received therapy involving a riding simulator. The results from this study showed that children who received riding simulator therapy exhibited a statistically significant improvement regarding postural control in the sitting position, specifically regarding the maximal displacement in the mediolateral and anteroposterior directions. Parents of these children noted that their children executed activities of daily living that demanded greater mobility and postural control better than before. In a 2014 study by Lee et al., 26 children with cerebral palsy were divided into two groups: a hippotherapy group and a horseback riding simulator group. The children in each group underwent the same kind of therapy for the same amount of time using either a real horse or the simulator. Conventional physical therapy sessions were attended before each hippotherapy or horseback riding simulator session. It was found that both static and dynamic balance improved for the children in both groups following their 12-week-long programs and there was not a statistically significant difference between the results from the two groups. This indicates that using a horseback riding simulator can be as effective as hippotherapy for improving balance in children with cerebral palsy.\n\nAnother area of research involves horseback riding simulation with stroke patients. Trunk balance and gait were assessed before and after the stroke patients were treated using a horseback riding simulator. Because stroke patients are not able to keep both feet on the floor and weight distributed equally between them, it is very easy for them to lose trunk muscle strength and control of the trunk on one or both sides. In a 2014 study, 20 non-traumatic, unilateral stroke patients underwent therapy using a horseback riding simulator. Their therapy included six 30-minute sessions a week for five weeks. The Trunk Impairment Scale (TIS) used to assess the patients before and after their therapy showed that they had better trunk control in a seated position following their sessions. Upon gait analysis, improvements in the areas of velocity, cadence, and stride length of the affected and non-affected sides were all observed. Additionally, the percentage of time spent in the double support phase was decreased. More research studies in which more subjects are tested for longer amounts of time are currently being investigated.\n"}
{"id": "56758726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56758726", "title": "Hyderabad Skies", "text": "Hyderabad Skies\n\nHyderabad Skies is an Indian professional basketball team located in Hyderabad, India. The team competes in India's UBA Pro Basketball League.\n\n \n\nFacebook Page\n"}
{"id": "29965575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29965575", "title": "Illegal procedure", "text": "Illegal procedure\n\nIn the National Football League, an illegal procedure is used to refer to a number of different penalties. \n\nSome penalties are signalled with a generic \"illegal procedure\" signal. Examples are: \n\nSome examples of similar penalties have their own signals. Examples include: \n\nIt is used similarly to the professional level at the high school level, but this term is not referenced at all in the collegiate rule book.\n"}
{"id": "41968456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41968456", "title": "Iran men's national inline hockey team", "text": "Iran men's national inline hockey team\n\nIran men's national inline hockey team is the national team side of Iran at international inline hockey. \n\n"}
{"id": "46946921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46946921", "title": "Jamie Bosio", "text": "Jamie Bosio\n\nJames Louis 'Jamie' Bosio (born 24 September 1991) is a Gibraltarian footballer who plays for Gibraltar Premier Division team Gibraltar United and has twelve caps for the Gibraltar national team. Mainly a defensive midfielder, he can also play at left back or centre back.\n\nBosio became Gibraltar's first captain in the UEFA Europa League when College Europa took on FC Vaduz of Liechtenstein in July 2014. He was part of the Lincoln Red Imps F.C. squad that made history by qualifying for the second round of the UEFA Champions League for the first time in July 2015.\n\nHe is currently a teacher in Gibraltar after completing his teacher training at Canterbury Christ Church University where he was awarded an Elite Sport Scholarship. He also serves as co-president and coach of Bavaria F.C.C.'s futsal team.\n\nBosio was eligible to represent either Gibraltar or the Republic of Ireland at international level. He decided to pledge his allegiance to Gibraltar and made his debut in their 4–0 defeat to Croatia in Varazdin on 6 June 2015 and his competitive debut against world champions Germany in the UEFA Euro 2016 Qualifiers a week later.\n\nBosio made his first competitive start for Gibraltar against Greece in the FIFA World Cup 2018 Qualifiers in September 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "574382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574382", "title": "Longboarding", "text": "Longboarding\n\nLongboarding is the act of riding on a longboard. A longboard varies in shape and size unlike its set counterpart, the skateboard, and has more stability, traction and durability due to larger wheel size and lower wheel durometers. Many, but not all longboards, use trucks (axles) that contain different geometric parameters than a skateboard as well. These factors and their variation have given way to a variety of disciplines, functions and purposes for a longboard. Longboarding also has competitive races down hill where some riders reach speeds exceeding 60 miles per hour. The angles at which some longboards can turn, as well as their ability to coast long distances make them more suitable for cruising and commuting on streets than regular skateboards.\nThe life of longboarding started in the 1950s. The idea of longboarding originated from surfers in Hawaii. They wanted to bring their surfing hobby to land when the waves were too small to surf. Surfers then figured out a way of achieving their goal of bringing surfing to land by customizing their skateboards. They would grab a piece of thick plywood and shape it into a smaller version of a surfboard, then screw the trucks and wheels to the decks and head out to small hills to imitate the same moves they would do if they were out surfing.\n\nDuring the 1970s, a small group of longboarders honed their techniques. Some longboarders from this period were profiled in a 1978 SkateBoarder magazine article entitled \"Cult of the Longboard\". These pioneers saw longboarding as a form of self-expression, and were influenced by surfing. However, despite the advent of polyurethane wheels (referred to as \"thane\" by longboarders), longboarding did not reach a high degree of prevalence during the 1970s.\n\nLongboarding lived on as an underground sport with home hobbyists continuing to make boards in their garages or strap trucks onto snowboard decks using old Kryptonic wheels from the 1970s or roller skating wheels.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Sector 9 started mass-producing and selling longboards. The 1990s also saw a change in truck technology: reverse kingpins made longboarding more stable.\n\nThe Internet has made it possible for small groups of skateboarders to communicate with each other and also gain an audience they might not have had locally, allowing the sport to grow further. Multiple subbranches of longboarding exist with relatively small but hardcore groups of adherents like slalom, LDP (long distance pushing/pumping), downhill, dance, freeriding, technical hardwheel sliding and more.\n\nBesides diversifying into many \"species\", longboarding itself has also come back around full circle. It now has begun embracing more street oriented tricks and cross over events using ramps while still embracing its earlier beginnings in slalom, ditch skating, cornering, and just speed itself.\n\nThe land speed record on a longboard was set in 2017, when Peter Connolly reached a speed of 146.73 km/h (91.17 mph).\n\nThe marathon record is held by Paul Kent, who finished the 2011 Adrenalina Skateboard Marathon in Hallandale Beach, FL in 1:32:13. The women's record is held by Cami Best who skated a 2:01:07 at the 2011 Adrenalina in New York City.\n\nThe record for distance skated in 24 hours is held by Rick Pronk, who skated 313 miles at the 2017 Dutch Ultraskate. The women's record is held by Saskia Tromp, who skated 262 miles, also at the 2017 Dutch Ultraskate.\n\nA record for the longest distance traveled on a longboard was set by David Cornthwaite in 2006 when he skated from Perth to Brisbane across Australia.\nThis record has since been broken by Rob Thomas of New Zealand, who skated .\n\nThe most basic use of a longboard is travel. Commuter designs take many different shapes, including long, wide cruisers as well as shorter hybrid type boards. Their trucks are designed to be loose to allow for sharper turns. It is useful to have a kicktail on a commuting longboard in order to corner on sidewalks and to lift the front of the board when riding off curbs.\n\nAlso, generally a shorter board, around 24\"-35\" is used for commuting, as well as medium-sized wheels (65mm-75mm) which help commuters maneuver bumps, cracks and other minor surface obstacles, perfect for students going to class on or off campus. For longer distances, a heavier (or longer) board and larger wheels will maintain the momentum from a push longer, making them ideal in that sense. One problem with this way of travel is that in some places it can be illegal. There have been cases when a longboarder has received a ticket for longboarding in certain areas, because some consider longboarding skateboarding.\n\nFreeriding can involve sliding and other tricks such as early grabs (where one grips the side of the board while on the ground and thrusts upward to become airborne) at medium to high speeds. The decks, which are often symmetrical, may have kicktails on both sides that allow for tech slides. These decks are typically from 36-44 inches long and from 8.5-10.5 inches wide. Most freeride decks utilize similar construction to downhill boards. Some companies are now trying to produce freeride decks that also do freestyle. They make these hybrid boards by adding kicktails and striving to make the boards out of lighter materials.\n\nDownhill longboarding involves riding down hills as fast as possible and keeping the board under control. Speeds in excess of 80 mph have been obtained. UK rider, Pete Connolly, is the current Guinness world record holder, for the fastest man on a longboard, with a staggering top speed of 91.17 mph. These boards are usually 95–110 cm (35–44 inches) long, featuring wheel bases from 28-35 inches, and very stiff to improve control at speed. \"Speed wobbles\" pose a problem for beginner downhill riders but intermediate and advanced users overcome this by learning to relax and control their muscles. Downhill decks usually fall into Six categories: topmount, micro drop, drop thru, drop deck, double drop and flush mount. Topmount boards provide the most traction, but tend to be less forgiving. Micro Drops lower the ride height slightly, which results in a great all around board. Drop thru decks consist of mounting the baseplates of the trucks on top of the board with the trucks hanging through a hole. Like micro drops these tend to be all around boards and were very popular 2009-2011. Drop Decks get the rider very close to the ground, providing an easy to push and drifty ride. Double Drop decks are a drop deck with drop thru truck mounts. These decks were fairly popular in the mid 2000s but have largely fallen out of favor due to their unresponsiveness. Flush mounts seek to lower the ride height by mounting the trucks in a recessed area on the board. This minimally lowers ride height but increases the chance for wheel bite (which is where the wheels rub against the board in a turn, usually resulting in a crash). The vast majority of downhill long boards are built from wood. The three most common woods used are Maple, Baltic Birch and Bamboo. Maple is less prone to fracturing during construction than Baltic Birch, and as such is used in almost all high end boards. Other materials used in long board construction are: 1) Carbon fiber with a foam, balsa or hollow core. 2) Aluminum, either pressed or milled. And 3) Carbon Nano Tubes, although this proved prone to failure and no current company is using this material.\n\nDownhill boards and freeride boards are often used interchangeably. The main distinguishing factor is that downhill boards are usually directional, with a defined front and rear, while freeride boards are symmetrical front to back.\n\nDownhill longboarders usually use Reverse Kingpin Trucks (RKP), whereas skateboarders use Traditional Kingpin Trucks. RKP trucks tend to hold traction better and are easier to handle at speed, whereas TKP trucks are more suited for tricks, bowl skating and usually sport a lower ride height. Other forms of trucks have been seen in downhill but remain on the sidelines. These would include torsion trucks (seismic) and CAM trucks (Other Planet). Downhill trucks are separated into two further categories: Cast and Precision. Cast trucks are the economical choice as well as the most common, although Precision Trucks are becoming more common. Cast trucks are usually a gravity cast aluminum with a solid steel axle that is non-removable. Due to the casting process cast trucks have 'slop' which is caused by small gaps in between parts. This causes small shifts and movements at speed and results in slightly diminished control. Cast trucks are also prone to warping slightly, causing uneven contact pressure on the wheels. Precision trucks can counter these limitations at a much higher price tag, although not all brands achieve this equally. Precision trucks are milled out of Aluminum billet and usually house two separate axles.\n\nThe angle and width of trucks also come into play with most falling in the 35°-52° range. A 45° truck is the center point, providing an equal ratio of lean to turn while also providing the most overall turn. A higher degree truck initiates a turn faster with less lean, but reduces the overall turn of the system. This is useful for riders seeking to maximize traction. A lower angle truck initiates a turn slower with more lean, and this results in less overall turn. These trucks are useful for making sliding easier, and also for many beginners who are struggling with speed wobble. The most common widths used are 150-200mm, with 175mm and 180mm being the most common. Generally a narrower truck increases traction but is less forgiving. However this is directly related to the width of the board as the truck and the board work together to form a level against the bushing.\n\nDancing is a resurgence of old-school tricks in longboarding that involves a variety of walking and spinning moves. Dancing originates from boardwalking in surfing. A board is usually considered a dancing board when it is around 45+ inches long and can be up to 12 inches wide, and although most of the tricks can be performed on smaller decks, a larger deck provides a more comfortable platform and takes less skill to maneuver.\n\nIn downhill longboard racing there are two styles: luge and downhill. Luge is like downhill racing except the rider lays with their back on the board. Most people do downhill racing. In downhill racing the different courses are separated by difficulty. Each race is separated by gender and age. The race sections are Open, Women, Juniors, Masters, and Luge. Each race starts with four riders at the start line. A gun is fired to begin the race. After, the rider goes into a speed tuck. These tucks are used to make the body as aerodynamic as possible. This is done by having the rider lean over and bend their knees with their hands behind their back. The first rider to the bottom wins.\n\nLong distance skateboard racing involves human-powered skating with propulsion from pushing, pumping, or both.\n\nThe International Distance Skateboarding Association is the governing body for the sport. The most popular forum for racers is Distance Skateboarding Worldwide.\n\nSome notable races include:\n\nLongboards can be used for traveling long distances. Long distance skating with charitable fundraising has even emerged (see Charitable distance skating). Any skateboard can be used for long distance journeys, however, decks designed specifically for long distance trips are typically lower to the ground than regular top mounted longboards. Common ways to lower the decks are in the construction of the boards; drop-through mounting allows for the whole board to be mounted lower on the trucks and can be combined with a drop-down deck. Drop-down decks are shaped to allow the riders feet to ride lower than where the trucks are mounted. A lower deck increases stability and makes for easy pushing and foot braking.\n\nSlaloming is the act of weaving in and out of a line of obstacles. Riders often compete for the fastest time through the course. Pedestrian slalom (usually referred to as civilian slalom because of the alliteration) is a non-competitive form of this discipline in which riders simply swerve around whatever obstacles they find in their path while navigating from point A to B.\n\nThe electric longboard is a variant of the original longboard and a new way of transport. It is essentially a longboard with a motor connected, usually to the rear wheels, and can be used to travel longer distances.\n\nIn addition to its role as a braking technique, sliding has evolved into its own discipline within skateboarding, with riders performing various tricks and rotations while sliding. Specific slides include the coleman slide, bert slide, and pendulum. Sliding can be performed on any wheel. Harder wheels (83-86a) will slide less smoothly and break traction easier while softer wheels (70-80a) will be harder to break traction but will lead to a smoother more controllable slide. Softer wheels, especially (70-75a), tend to wear out faster. Slides can be done standing upright or with one or two hands placed on the road to allow the rider to execute technical slides in any number of positions. When performing hands-down slides, protective slide gloves must be worn. These gloves can be purchased or made at home. They are usually leather gloves with sliding pucks made of hard, low-friction plastics such as UHMWPE, Corian, or Delrin attached by velcro or glue. Sliding gloves can also be bought online or at local skate shops. Gloves are commonly made by companies such as Sector 9, Vault, Landyachtz, Arbor and Loaded. Slides can also be performed on banks and transitions in a skate park. When a skater slides to a complete stop, it is called a shutdown slide. A drift that reduces the rider's speed without bringing him to a complete stop is called a speed check. Riders will also do a partial slide called a pre-drift before a corner to trim speed and then hook back up and grip the corner. When the board rotates more than 90 degrees and then returns to its original position over the course of the slide it is called a pendulum. There are myriad more technical and challenging slides that can be done such as laybacks, pressure spins, 5-0 slides, and stand-up rotations. One of the most popular slide and most basic hands-down slide is called the Coleman. Made popular by Cliff Coleman, the Coleman slide is the most popular slide used to come to a complete stop, as the rider does a complete 180 degree turn with one hand on the ground.\n\nCarving is an effective way to control speed when traveling downhill. Instead of coming to a complete stop, the rider makes a continuous \"S\" path by leaning left and right. By making many turns speed can be controlled and maintained.\n\nBoards with camber are specifically designed for carving. A camber board is usually made of a flexible wood like bamboo, and the center of the deck will be higher than the mounting point of the trucks creating an arc shape. When weight is applied the center will bend down, creating a reverse of the arc shape. This builds spring tension, that is released at the peak of every complete turn in the \"S\" pattern.\n\nPumping a skateboard is a technique used and perfected in slalom skateboarding. It is a technique used to maintain speed without the rider taking his or her feet off of the skateboard. The motion itself is somewhat unorthodox and it requires the rider to be very in sync with his or her center of gravity and skateboard. The act of pumping a longboard is the bending of ones knees in the direction of a turn to compensate for the gravitational forces in order to maintain speed. Boards made specifically for pumping usually consist of large longboard wheels which range anywhere from 60mm to 80mm. These wheels are normally soft to promote grip and have rebound urethane to maintain the resilience of the wheel. The trucks on the skateboard are also essential to how it will pump. Bennett Vectors are a very popular pumping truck and when mixed with the right durometer (measure of hardness) bushings experienced boarders can travel long distances without touching a foot to the ground. In a skateboarding world full of kick flips and 900's, pumping had become virtually extinct. Now it is beginning to make a revival with the popularity of alternative transportation and longboard distance skating.\n\nEarly grabbing is a technique of achieving height that originated in old school skateboarding, in which the rider grabs the board and lifts it while initiating a jumping motion. The most common technique of doing this is by placing the right hand (for goofy riders) or left hand (for regular riders) on the backside of the board between the legs, for this tends to be the technique that gives the body the least resistance when jumping/lifting. Although this has become semi-obsolete due to freeriding alternatives with kicktails which have the ability to ollie (ex. Loaded Chubby Unicorn, Omen Sugar, DK penguin), it is commonly practiced on decks that lack tails (ex. Landyachtz 9 two 5, Comet Grease Shark, Earthwing Supermodel) and can be used to navigate the environment more easily (over ledges, off ledges, and off kickers).\n\nOne of the most important core tricks for longboard dancing. Cross steps involve moving the rider's back foot around the front, flipping the front around the back, and moving into a switched position from the rider's natural stance. Carve during this trick for extra style by crossing closer to the edge. Cross steps can be used to change positions with style and flow to the riders cruising.\n\nLand Paddling is the use of a long pole or stick while longboarding. The stick is used to propel the longboarder further without pumping. The stick also maintains balance and can be used as a brake. This variation was stated to be an invention by Steve McBride of Kahuna Creations, but this method of pushing has been around longer and can't be claimed by a single person.\n\nA train involves a group of riders riding in a straight line down a hill. The front rider drafts for the following riders, who in turn use their hands to push the front rider through the wind for increased overall speed for the entire group. This technique requires skill and practice because riders are in such close proximity.\n\nDrafting is used by downhill riders to increase speed and pass other riders. It involves riding directly behind another rider to take advantage of the rider in front breaking the wind. A successful draft can greatly increase speed. The drafting rider waits until the last second to break from out behind the front rider to maximize the speed gained.\n\nIn downhill, an American tuck involves the rider tucking his/her back knee right behind his/her front knee and leaning onto his/her front thigh. Many find this tuck to be one of the most comfortable to hold while providing for a very flat, aerodynamic back with a small frontal profile. This tuck results in larger draft pocket behind the rider, which is used in a race to pass.\n\nA Euro tuck involves the rider tucking his/her back knee right behind his/her front ankle and leaning onto his/her front thigh. This tuck gets the rider very low, but many find it to be uncomfortable and it creates a larger frontal profile which creates drag. It does reduce the draft pocket by guiding the air downwards due to the curved back.\n\nA Hybrid tuck involves the rider tucking his/her back knee into the middle of his/her front calf. This tuck provides a balance between the Euro and American, taking some of the advantages and disadvantages of each.\n\nA Brazilian tuck consists of the rider placing his/her back knee directly onto the board next to or behind the front foot. This Tuck has largely fallen out of favor for competitive riding. This is because it creates a very large frontal section that dramatically increases aerodynamic drag. It's mostly used by beginners or as a resting position for some people during very long runs.\n\nA classic Tuck is one that was primarily used in the 1980s and 1990s. However some modern events, such as the MT Tabor Challenge in Portland Oregon, require this tuck to increase the difficulty on mellow hills. The tuck involves placing both feet at the front of the board, touching with one foot slightly behind the other. The rider then crouches down somewhat similar to a modern tuck. This tuck provides a severely reduced amount of control due to the rider having minimal control over the rear trucks. Further the stance has higher aerodynamic drag than other tucks.\n\nBecause of the high speed a longboard can achieve (as fast as a car), being able to brake quickly is extremely important.\n\nWhile not an official braking technique, it is common for riders to jump off the moving board and 'run out' their speed. This is safe only at low speeds. This technique is considered dangerous and is least accepted in the longboarding community. If the rider is traveling faster than the speed at which they can run, other techniques are required, for example footbraking or sliding.\n\nSliding is the most effective braking technique for downhill skateboarders. Sliding is the method of pushing the edge of the board out so it is traveling sideways rather than forwards, and the wheels are sliding against the ground. The resulting friction slows the board down dramatically. It allows a skater to reduce his or her speed much quicker than footbraking, but requires a wider area depending on their ability to control the slide. Factors such as the height and length of the board and, crucially, durometer (softness) of the wheels affect how easy this is to do and how fast the rider must be travelling to achieve effective slides. Sliding also requires an efficient and precise use of body weight in order to be fully effective.\n\nFoot braking involves putting one foot on the road while balancing on the board with the other foot. The rider needs to put all of their weight on their front foot. This technique can be used to reduce speed or come to a full stop and it is a very helpful technique for an emergency case. This is helpful in racing or in tight situations where the rider does not feel comfortable sliding, or when a rider only needs to lose a small amount of speed prior to entering a turn. However this method can be wasteful and tends to destroy shoes as the sole of the shoe is worn away and doesn't shed speed nearly as fast as sliding.\n\nA much less common form of foot braking is frog braking. This is where the rider grabs rail on both sides of the board and then stomps a foot down while crouched. This method allows the rider to shed speed much faster than a normal foot brake due the rider being able to apply much greater pressure against the road. This method still does not slow the rider down as much as a slide and is considered 'odd' by most riders.\n\nAnother variation of foot braking is a sit braking. This involves the rider going from a standing position to sitting on the board and putting both feet down. This method can slow the rider down very quickly. The downside to this method is that it takes some time to sit down on the board. This is usually used at the end of a run.\n\nAir braking involves standing upright on the board as tall as possible with arms outstretched to catch as much wind resistance as possible. In racing this is done by standing up from the rider's tuck. This is primarily done in speedboarding to reduce speed before a tight turn. It is not meant to stop the rider, but rather slow the rider to maintain control and stability. The effect is most noticeable at higher speeds and can be enhanced by deploying a Sporting-Sail, jacket or other article of clothing, forming a parachute. \n\nLongboarding is associated with a different pattern of injuries than skateboarding is. Many longboarding injuries are sustained while going downhill, while very few skateboarding accidents happen while going downhill. In downhill racing the riders are required to wear certain protective gear unlike other uses of the longboard where a helmet and padding may be worn. Full closed helmet, pads on the rider's elbows, knees, and wrist, gloves, slide pucks, and a leather suit are required. This equipment is mandated by the International Downhill Federation. Longboarding injuries tend to involve head and neck areas more than skateboarding injuries, which are more likely to involve a skater's lower extremities. Helmets, padding, and possibly friendly or parental supervision are highly recommended or enforced by law.\n\nScholars Glenn Keays and Alex Dumas found media reports of five longboard-related deaths in Canada and the United States during 2012, and four in 2013. A number of municipalities—most notably Vancouver—have considered banning or restricting longboarding, expressing concern with the speeds longboarders can reach.\n\n"}
{"id": "57288566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57288566", "title": "Manila Stars", "text": "Manila Stars\n\nManila Stars also known as Manila Stars-Robust Energy Capsule is a professional basketball team in the Maharlika Pilipinas Basketball League (MPBL). The team is owned by the Local Government of Manila City, Philippines.\n\nUnlike Pasig and San Juan, the Manila Stars team does not share any history with the Manila Metrostars of the defunct MBA. \nThe team was ranked 13th in the MPBL Expansion.\n"}
{"id": "37770070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37770070", "title": "Meigs County Fairgrounds", "text": "Meigs County Fairgrounds\n\nThe Meigs County Fairgrounds is a county fairgrounds located north of Pomeroy in Meigs County, Ohio, United States. Some of the fairgrounds has been designated a historic site, with particular emphasis having been placed on the fairgrounds' racetrack and its associated grandstand.\n\nThe first Meigs County Fair was held in the village of Middleport in 1861. Within nine years, the fair's organizers had bought the land occupied by the current grounds. The construction dates of some elements of the grounds are unknown, but the present sharply-curved racetrack was finished in 1889 or earlier. In 1890, donations by average citizens paid for the construction of a grandstand by the track to supplement a nearby hillside where fairgoers had previously sat. Instead of being placed simply along one side of the track, the grandstand curves around the northeastern turn of the track; it is the only curved grandstand at an Ohio county fairgrounds.\n\nIn 1982, much of the fairgrounds, including the racetrack and grandstand, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Besides the unusual method of construction seen in the grandstand and track, the fairgrounds qualified for its importance in the area's social history as a reflection of the importance of fairgoing, especially harness racing at the track, to Meigs County residents.\n"}
{"id": "37466638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37466638", "title": "PINKK-Pécsi 424", "text": "PINKK-Pécsi 424\n\nPécsi Női Kosárlabda Klub Sportegyesület (PINKK Pécsi 424, ) is a Hungarian women's basketball team, that competes in the top flight of the Hungarian women's basketball leagues. The club is a successor of Bajai NKK (and is officially located in Pécs). The team had to play in Komló between 2012 and 2016, since 2016 they are playing in Pécs.\n\nThe club was renamed in 2012 after the cessation of Pécs 2010, the former basketball club in the city.\n\nThe list of players of PINKK-Pécsi 424 in the 2012/13 season is the following:\n"}
{"id": "6705588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6705588", "title": "Paysandú F.C.", "text": "Paysandú F.C.\n\nPaysandú Fútbol Club are a football club from Paysandú in Uruguay. \n\nThey were formed in 2003, making them one of the youngest football clubs in Uruguay. They were formed by the amalgamation of several local clubs: Barrio Obrero, Centenario, Deportivo América, Estudentil, Independiente, Juventud Unida, Olimpico and Paysandú Wanderers.\n\nThis new club played in the 2005/2006 Primera División Uruguaya, but were relegated back to the 2nd level after finishing bottom of the table.\n"}
{"id": "8604664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8604664", "title": "Ponce de Leon Park", "text": "Ponce de Leon Park\n\nPonce de Leon Park ( ; also known as Spiller Park or Spiller Field from 1924 to 1932, and \"Poncey\" to locals, was the primary home field for the minor league baseball team called the Atlanta Crackers for nearly six decades. The Crackers played here in the Southern Association (1907–1959) and the International League (1962–64). It was also home of the Atlanta Black Crackers who captured the second half championship of the Negro American League in 1938.\n\nThe ballpark was located at 650 Ponce de Leon Avenue; the street ran along the south side of the park i.e. along its first base side. Behind right and center field, atop the slope bordering the park on the East, were the tracks of the Southern Railway, now part of the BeltLine, a trail and future transit ring around the central neighborhoods of Atlanta. Across the street was the Ponce de Leon Amusement Park until 1926, when the hulking Sears Roebuck Southeastern Headquarters, now known as Ponce City Market, was built.\n\nThe original ballpark on the site opened in 1907. The structure was destroyed by fire in 1923. It was rebuilt in 1924 and was named for club owner Rell J. Spiller. It reverted to its original name in 1933. The seating capacity of the park was about 20,000.\nThe park was known for a magnolia tree in deep center field. Balls landing in the tree remained in play, until Earl Mann took over the team in 1947 and had the outfield wall moved in about 50 feet. During exhibition games, Babe Ruth and Eddie Mathews both hit home runs that became stuck in the distant tree.\n\nAfter the Crackers moved to Atlanta Stadium in 1965, Ponce de Leon Park was demolished in favor of a shopping center (now also demolished) and today a strip mall, Midtown Place, occupies the location. The famous magnolia tree is still standing at the rear of the shopping center along the BeltLine trail.\n\nCollege football games were also once hosted at Ponce de Leon Park. The Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets played all their home games there from 1908 to 1911. The Georgia Bulldogs have also played games at 'Poncey.'\n\nOn July 1, 1940, the park hosted an exhibition fight between a 45-year-old Jack Dempsey and wrestler Clarence (Cowboy) Luttrell which Dempsey won.\n\nThe park also hosted regular Friday night high school football games between Tech High Smithies and Boys' High Purple Hurricanes during the 1940s which sometimes outdrew the college games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29237103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29237103", "title": "Rangoon Gymkhana cricket team", "text": "Rangoon Gymkhana cricket team\n\nRangoon Gymkhana cricket team was a scratch cricket team formed in Rangoon, Burma. The team played a single first-class match in January 1927 at the Gymkhana Ground against the touring Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC), resulting in a draw. \n\nA second scratch eleven was formed to play MCC on the following days at the Burma Athletic Association Ground. This time the team was styled 'Burma'. Both teams were captained by Hubert Ashton, the Cambridge University and Essex batsman. Six men appeared for both Burmese teams. All were European officials. Until 1948 Burma was administered as part of India. \n"}
{"id": "50797687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50797687", "title": "Russia at the 2000 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Russia at the 2000 Summer Paralympics\n\nRussia competed at the 2000 Summer Paralympics in Sydney, Australia. 89 competitors from Russia won 35 medals, including 12 gold, 11 silver and 12 bronze to finish 14th in the medal table.\n\nRussia originally earned a silver medal after being defeated by Spain in the gold medal match. However, Spain were stripped of their gold medal after cheating in the game which lead to Russia gaining a gold medal and Poland earning the silver.\n\n"}
{"id": "45339011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45339011", "title": "Sayed Mohammad Ayub", "text": "Sayed Mohammad Ayub\n\nSayed Mohammad Ayub (born 20 November 1908, date of death unknown) was an Afghanistan field hockey player, who competed at the 1936 Summer Olympic Games and played in both games.\n"}
{"id": "34137461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34137461", "title": "South African Rugby Football Federation", "text": "South African Rugby Football Federation\n\nThe South African Rugby Football Federation was an association formed by the majority of \"Coloured\" rugby union clubs that broke away from the South African Coloured Rugby Football Board (SACRFB) in the 1960s to affiliate with the whites-only South African Rugby Board (SARB). The SACRFB was founded in 1896.\n\nThe split with the SACRFB was driven by a number of factors and people, including personality clashes between SACRFB rugby officials Cuthbert Loriston and Abdullah Abbass. Since the 1950s black, coloured and Indian sporting codes had come under increased pressure to pursue three divergent paths: form non-racial organisations, affiliate with white associations (where they would continue within their segregated leagues), or refuse to do either. From the 1960s the formation of organisations such as the South African Sports Association and the South African Non-Racial Olympic Committee pressurised black sports groupings to move towards non-racial amalgamation. Danie Craven, then president of SARB, was one of the main driving forces behind the drive to affiliate coloured rugby under the SARB, believing that he could not desegregate rugby unilaterally while all other sporting codes followed the segregation policies set by the apartheid government.\n\nLoriston became the first president of the newly constituted SARFF, while the remainder of the SACRFB's clubs formed the SACOS-affiliated South African Rugby Union under leadership of Abass. SARU promoted non-racial rugby instead of the racially segregated associations that existed under SARB's organisational umbrella. It should not be confused with the body founded in 1992 that presently governs rugby in South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "7696735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7696735", "title": "Spain at the 1968 Winter Olympics", "text": "Spain at the 1968 Winter Olympics\n\nSpain competed at the 1968 Winter Olympics in Grenoble, France.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26543169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26543169", "title": "Spindrift Stakes", "text": "Spindrift Stakes\n\nThe Spindrift Stakes was an American Thoroughbred horse race run annually between 1886 and 1909 at Sheepshead Bay Race Track at Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, New York. A race for three-year-olds, it was contested on dirt over a distance of miles (10 furlongs) from 1886–1892 and at miles (9 furlongs) from 1893 through 1909.\n\nThe race ended with the closure of the Coney Island Jockey Club's racetrack, brought on by the State legislature's enactment of the Hart-Agnew Law.\n\nSpeed record:\n\nMost wins by a jockey:\n\nMost wins by a trainer:\n\nMost wins by an owner:\n\n"}
{"id": "36919350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36919350", "title": "Superhero Scramble", "text": "Superhero Scramble\n\nSuperhero Scramble was a superhero themed obstacle race series that has several levels of races. The majority of participants participate for fun, while others compete for team and individual prize money that's available at each event. Participants frequently dress in costumes based on characters from video games, movies, cartoons, and comic books. The all-day events included live bands, DJ's, emcees, entertainers, food and beer. There were also night races and kids races.\n\nThe Superhero Scramble was founded in June, 2011, in Boca Raton, Florida by Sean O'Connor. The first event occurred on November 12, 2011 at Quiet Waters Park in Deerfield Beach, and attracted nearly 2000 people. Three more events took place in Florida during the next twelve months, and subsequently the group has organized national leve events across the US. Men and women participate about equally in the races, and both young and older adults take part.\n\nAfter 2013, the Superhero Scramble, as well as several other obstacle races, had some financial trouble because fewer people were signing up to participate.\n\nSuperhero Scramble race courses vary in distance and difficulty from four mile \"Charger\" courses, to eight mile \"Intimidator\" courses, as well as thirteen mile (half marathon) \"Villain\" and the 26 mile (marathon) \"Super Villain.\" Projected finishing times for the events range from 30 minutes to 12 hours, depending on the particular course and fitness level of the racer. Race venues have included ski slopes, state parks, paint ball parks, off-road parks, and more. Any competitor who completes all three race distances within a 12-month period is eligible to receive special designation as a \"Superhero Legend.\"\n\nThe Superhero Scramble races include a variety of obstacles including the \"Leap of Faith\" jump, \"The Beast\" climbing wall, the \"Spiderweb\" ropes course, the \"Real\" Barbed Wire, the \"Top of the World\" Container Crossing, the \"Dumpster Divin\" ice bath, the \"Super Slime Slide\" and several mud slides.\n\nThe \"Scramble Gamble\" allows participants to win a cash prize whereby half the entrance fees are given to charity and the remaining half split between the top 3 finishers.\n\nSuperhero Scramble supports Forgotten Soldiers Outreach (FSO), which was founded in 2003 to send monthly \"We Care\" packages to U.S. servicemen and servicewomen abroad. To date, FSO has benefited over 250,000 military personnel serving abroad, covering ALL world theaters.\n\nIn July, 2012 in Waldo, Fl, Superhero Scramble held its first night waves. Races where participants ran the same course that was set up during the day, navigating by way of the moonlight and their headlamps.\n\nKids can run their own version of the Superhero Scramble. The course is estimated to be 1 mile long and with 5 or more obstacles. Age groups of 4-8 and 9-13 run together. Parents are encouraged to run with their children. Participants receive a medal, a sticker and a temporary tattoo.\n\n</tr></table>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48406750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48406750", "title": "Tampa Bay Christian Athletic League", "text": "Tampa Bay Christian Athletic League\n\nThe Tampa Bay Christian Athletic League is an association of private schools in Hillsborough County, Florida, originally formed as the Brandon Christian Athletic League for the purpose of providing intermural athletics to a number of schools.\n\nCurrent members include:\n\n\nFormer members include Foundation Christian Academy, Seffner Christian Academy, and Brandon Academy.\n"}
{"id": "34110901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34110901", "title": "Tawfiq Ali", "text": "Tawfiq Ali\n\nTawfiq Ali Abuhammad (; born 8 November 1990) is a Palestinian footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for the Palestine national football team and Tarji Wadi Al-Nes in the West Bank Premier League.\n\nHe received his first senior cap in the bronze medal match of the 2011 Pan Arab Games against Kuwait. His first clean sheet as national team goalkeeper came on 29 February 2012 in a friendly against Azerbaijan, that ended with a 2–0 win for Palestine.\n\n"}
{"id": "47412249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47412249", "title": "Tour de Savoie Mont-Blanc", "text": "Tour de Savoie Mont-Blanc\n\nThe Tour des Pays de Savoie is a staged cycling race held annually in the departments of Savoie and Haute-Savoie in France. It was created in 1999 and is part of the UCI Europe Tour in category 2.2.\n"}
{"id": "4065034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4065034", "title": "Unión Magdalena", "text": "Unión Magdalena\n\nUnión Magdalena () commonly known as El Unión, and nicknamed as El Ciclón Bananero (The Bananaquit Cyclone), is a professional Colombian football club based in Santa Marta, Magdalena, Colombia. Unión Magdalena currently plays in the Categoría Primera A. They play their home games at the Sierra Nevada Stadium.\n\nFounded in March 10, 1951 as Deportivo Samarios, the club was re-founded as Unión Magdalena in 19 April 1953. The original playing squad was largely composed of Hungarians who were touring Colombia when their club, the Hungaria FbC Roma, was disbanded.\n\nUnión Magdalena was founded as \"Deportivo Samarios\" on March 10, 1951. The team was founded with the help of José Eduardo Gnecco Correa and Eduardo Dávila Riascos and was formed by the squad of the Hungaria FbC Roma when it was disbanded after a tour in South America. The first team consisted in 10 Colombians, 8 Hungarians, 2 Yugoslavs, 1 Austrian, 1 Argentine, 1 Italian and 1 Romanian. Deportivo Samarios debuted on league that same year and placed 14th. That season, the team achieved the record of the biggest win in the Colombian league against Universidad, with a score of 12–1.\n\nThe club was re-founded as Unión Magdalena in 19 April 1953. Unión has only won one championship, in 1968 playing against Deportivo Cali in the final. The first football club of the Caribbean region of Colombia to win a football championship in history. Also being first in the Caribbean Region represented the country in the 1968 Copa Libertadores. Carlos Valderrama, one of the most famous Colombian footballers, started his career here.\n\nRelegated in 2005, Unión earned automatic promotion to the 2019 Categoría Primera A, after playing 13 years in the second division football league.\nRed and blue stripes compose the traditional shirt of the team, and its design is inspired by Argentine club San Lorenzo de Almagro.\n\nThe club uniform is directly inspired by the colors of the flag of the Magdalena Department since the founding of the team in 1953, although for many years it played with a white uniform. For the 2012 season, his uniform continued with the traditional Barça vertical stripes, and he again used the clothes of the Bogota company \"FSS\" with whom he had signed in past seasons. With the change of the shield, the gray color was added to the vertical and horizontal lines, therefore, the averages of the banana set are of such color.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11281759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11281759", "title": "Uruguay Fed Cup team", "text": "Uruguay Fed Cup team\n\nThe Uruguay Fed Cup team represents Uruguay in Fed Cup tennis competition and are governed by the Asociación Uruguaya de Tenis. They currently compete in the Americas Zone Group II.\n\nUruguay competed in its first Fed Cup in 1972. Their best result was reaching the round of 16 in 1972 and 1976.\n\n"}
{"id": "35538549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35538549", "title": "Utalii F.C.", "text": "Utalii F.C.\n\nUtalii Football Club was a football club from Ruaraka, upported by the Utalii College, which specialised in cooking, tourism and hotel management. It won the Kenya Premier League title in 1997. However, due to mismanagement at its parent college, it became impossible to find resources to keep the club running and it as wound up. It was dissolved in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2075796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2075796", "title": "Yurtec Stadium Sendai", "text": "Yurtec Stadium Sendai\n\nThe naming rights for the stadium were sold beginning on March 1, 2006 until February 28, 2009. In that period, the stadium is officially known as .\n\nIn 2009, the turf were replaced, and Vegalta played the first half of the season at Miyagi Stadium.\n\nThe stadium was damaged after the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.\n\nItaly used the stadium as their base for training camp during the 2002 World Cup, and cast images of the team members footprints are on display outside the stadium.\n\nThe Sendai Cup (An international youth football tournament) has been held annually since 2003. Italy, France Brazil, and Croatia have participated, along with the hosts, Japan.\n\nExhibition matches between Vegalta Sendai and A.C. ChievoVerona and S.S. Lazio have been played at Sendai Stadium as well. The match with Chievo in 2003 was the final club game for Oliver Bierhoff.\n\nOn June 16, 2007, the stadium was the venue for Japan vs. Samoa in the 2007 IRB Pacific Nations Cup. It was the first time an international rugby game had been played in the Tōhoku region.\n\nOn June 15, 2008, Japan defeated Tonga 35-13 at the stadium in the 2008 IRB Pacific Nations Cup.\n\n\n"}
