{"id": "10426620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10426620", "title": "2007 Ukrainian political crisis", "text": "2007 Ukrainian political crisis\n\nThe political crisis in Ukraine lasted from April to June 2007 was part of political stand off between coalition and opposition factions of Verkhovna Rada that led to the unscheduled Ukrainian parliamentary election, 2007. It started on 2 April 2007 as a culmination of long lasting crisis and degradation of the parliamentary coalition when the President of Ukraine (Viktor Yushchenko) attempted to dissolve the parliament. The following day, in light of impending political unrest, the United Nations Resident Coordinator, Francis Martin O'Donnell following an earlier call to deepen democracy and liberalize the economy, exceptionally issued an advisory statement of principles on behalf of the Country Team (followed by a visit by former Estonian President Arnold Rüütel on 23 April).\n\nThe president signed a presidential decree based on several articles of the Constitution of Ukraine ordering early parliamentary elections in Ukraine to be held on 27 May 2007,<ref name=\"order_264/2007\"></ref> though they were later postponed to 24 June 2007. He also ordered the government of Ukraine to finance the appointed elections. The Parliament and the government of Yanukovych called this decree unconstitutional and prevented fund allocation for elections. An appeal against the President's decree was lodged in Ukraine's Constitutional Court, which was considering the appeal.<ref name=\"appeal_CCU/2007\"></ref> The Constitutional Court was expected to conclude its public hearing on Wednesday, 25 April 2007, following the presentation of the Government and Parliament's submission. The Court would then retire to consider their ruling.<ref name=\"CCU_25/04/2007\"></ref>\n\nViktor Yushchenko suspended the decree and postponed date of the election in order to have approved legislation on elections, the opposition, and the operation of Parliament.\n\nLeading up to the dissolution of parliament was the eight-month power struggle between the president and the parliament. Ongoing power struggles between the Coalition of National Unity and the opposition supported by the president Viktor Yushchenko frequently resulted in the opposition boycotting the parliament's plenary sessions.\n\nPrior to the President's 2 April decree dismissing Ukraine's Parliament, 11 members of the opposition supported the governing Coalition of National Unity (formerly the \"Anti-Crisis Coalition\"). The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, claimed that the right of individual members of a parliamentary faction to support the governing coalition was contrary to the provisions of .\n\nArticle 83 clause six, in what is commonly referred to as the Imperative mandate stated \"According to election results and on the basis of a common ground achieved between various political positions, a coalition of parliamentary factions shall be formed in the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine to include a majority of People’s Deputies of Ukraine within the constitutional composition of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine\".\n\nThe \"Imperative mandate\" provision of Ukraine's Constitution came under strong criticism by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe as being undemocratic. The Parliamentary Assembly in its Explanatory memorandum dated 17 April 2007 had emphasized\n\nThe week before the president's initial decree, on 2 April, dismissing Ukraine's Parliament, thousands of supporters of the opposition gathered in Kiev, calling on the President dissolve the parliament. A similar number of supporters of Verkhovna Rada Governing majority also gathered in Kiev supporting Ukraine's parliament.\n\nOn 2 April, the President, Viktor Yushchenko, following a meeting with Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych and Speaker of the Parliament Oleksandr Moroz, signed the first decree dismissing Ukraine's Parliament sparking another political and constitutional crisis in Ukraine.\n\nAt 11 PM the President, in a televised speech to the nation, announced his decree dismissing the parliament and ordering early parliamentary elections to be initially held on 27 May. The Rada, passed a motion declaring the decree unconstitutional, in defiance of the president's decree continued to function, issued orders preventing funds allocation for elections, and canceled the order assigning election commission members. The cabinet, supporting the parliament, refused to allocate funds for the new election.\n\nThe legality and authority of the President's determination to dismiss Ukraine's previous parliament has been the subject of a challenge in Ukraine's Constitutional Court.\n\nOn 30 April 2007 On the eve of the Court’s ruling on the legality of the President's decrees, Viktor Yushcheko intervened in the operation and independence of Ukraine's Constitutional Court by dismissing three Constitutional Court judges. The President's actions were later determined by Ukrainian courts of have been illegal and one of the judges dismissed has been reinstated; the other two judges resigned. Following the President's intervention the Constitutional Court has not ruled on the legality of the previous parliament's dismissal.\n\nIn a separate issue, some politicians have claimed that identification cards for voting changed hands, as many deputies do not attend parliament in violation of of the Constitution.\n\nThe Central Election Commission has estimated direct costs of the elections to be at about 340 million UAH ($67 million, £34 million).<ref name=\"285/2007\"></ref> Yulia Tymoshenko, leader of the parliamentary opposition, commented on the issue of costs:\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Ukraine is examining an inquiry submitted by a group of 53 members of parliament who question the constitutional legitimacy of the parliament's dissolution. This inquiry is based on interpretation that the President had no authority under Ukraine's constitution to dissolve parliament under the conditions listed in Article of the Constitution of Ukraine. which is the only article in Ukraine's Constitution that empowers the President to dismiss Ukraine's Parliament. Instead, the decree mentions Articles , , , , , and .\n\nOn 4 April, Ivan Dombrovskyy, the Chairman of the Constitutional Court, filed for resignation, stating that he is under pressure. However, the judges rejected it.\n\nOn 5 April, Yanukovych has announced that during telephone conversation asked the Austrian Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer to mediate in the dispute. There was no immediate response from Gusenbauer's office, and Austrian diplomats were surprised by the news about his help request.\n\nOn 6 April, the Alliance of National Unity tried to compromise by dismissing the individuals from opposition fractions who had joined them and ratifying a parliamentary law banning individual membership in coalitions.\n\nFour members of Central Election Commission - Yuriy Donchenko, Ihor Kachur, Bronislav Raykovskyy, and Oleksandr Chupakhin (reportedly affiliated with the Anti-Crisis Coalition) took sickness leave - thus effectively blocked work of commission as there is no quorum.\n\nAs of 6 April in Constitutional Court, there are constitutional legitimacy questions from the President on an order of the Cabinet Ministers supporting the Verkhovna Rada and from 102 deputies on changes done to constitution in 2004.\n\nOn 7 April, Feodosiya city court has canceled own order from 5 April that originally disallowed to start elections. Vladimir Kolesnichenko, a spokesperson for the Party of Regions has said that this court ruling is a fake and that the elections are still banned.\n\nOn 9 April, the Rada has passed a declaration, stating:\n\nFurthermore, the Rada called upon the heads of European states, governments, and parliaments to send its representatives to mediate the political crisis.\n\nUkraine's parliament on 9 April, raising the stakes in the country's ongoing political confrontation, stated that it would only support early parliamentary elections a presidential vote is held at the same time.\n\nOn 10 April, a Luhansk municipal courts' ruling, dated 6 April, banning all preparations for the election was publicly announced. The ruling was a response to an inquiry, submitted by Vladimir Ivanov, a Party of Regions member of parliament. Reportedly, this ruling was canceled. Ivanov has attempted to use labor laws in order to keep his deputy mandate:\n\nFive Constitutional Court judges (Dmytro Lelak, Volodymyr Kampo, Viktor Shyshkin, Petro Stetsyuk, Yaroslava Machuzhak), three of whom were appointed under the presidential quota, refused to participate in review of president order unless they will be given protection by law enforcement. They noted that \"certain political forces, acting through their representatives, publicly apply rude pressure on the individual judges and on the Constitutional Court as a whole.\" \n\nOn 12–13 April, both Yanukovych and Yushchenko agreed to abide by the Court's ruling, regardless of its verdict. Furthermore, Yanukovych stated he might agree to parliamentary elections, if the other parties would also agree to participate, even if the Court rules in favor of the Rada.\n\nOn 17 April, Ukraine's Constitutional Court, with all 18 judges in attendance, decided to study the appeal against the President's decree non-stop until a final ruling is passed. 11 out of 18 Judges passed this decision.\n\nUkrainian opposition leader Yulia Tymoshenko described a Constitutional Court decision to review the President's decree dissolving parliament as \"a farce,\" and urged the president to recall the judges appointed on his quota.\n\nThe Court has yet to make its decision on the appeal, and is scheduled to announce it on 27 April.\n\nUkrainian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych address Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly stating that the coalition of the majority in Ukraine biggest concern is not that of elections, but the choice between whether Ukraine will be a state ruled by law and all of the emerging problems will be resolved in courts, or on the streets.\n\nAlthough 17 April was the deadline under established law to submit documents to the Central Election Commission for the registration of party lists, no political force has done so.\n\nOn 19 April, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe held an emergency session to consider issues related to Ukraine's current political crisis. The Assembly passed a resolution calling on all parties to disputation to respect the decision of Ukraine's Constitutional Court whilst criticizing Ukraine's Constitution Imperative mandate provisions.\n\nParliamentary Assembly rapporteurs on Ukraine - Hanne Severinsen and Renate Wohlwend commented:\n\nThe \"imperative mandate\" provision of Ukraine's Constitution came under strong criticism by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe as being undemocratic. The Parliamentary Assembly in its Explanatory memorandum had emphasized\n\nOn 20 April, leaders of Bloc Yulia Tymoshenko and Our Ukraine have declared that about 150 deputy members of Our Ukraine and Bloc Yulia Tymoshenko have resigned from Ukraine's parliament, as result it claimed that the parliament will be no longer able to operate constitutionally per . Their resignations have been submitted to Vikor Yushchenko, Ukraine's President, who has accepted their resignation.\n\nDmitry Vydrin from the Bloc of Yulia Tymoshenko (BYuT), has declared that he had not written an application on abdication, as nobody has not made this request. According to him, “there are three reasons” why he did not give his mandate, reports Delo. “At first, nobody addressed to me with my proposal. Nobody phoned me and told me to write down this application. So how could I write it?” declared the deputy.\n\nAleksander Kwaśniewski, Poland's former President, believes that Ukraine must find a political compromise and solution to the current political crisis facing Ukraine. When asked who is to blame he responded:\n\nOn 25 April, Viktor Yushchenko announced that he has rescheduled the early parliamentary elections to 24 June. On 30 April, the Rada passed a motion calling for presidential and parliamentary elections to be held on 9 December 2007. After negotiations on 4 May, Yanukovych and Yushchenko finally agreed to hold elections in autumn (without specifying a date).\n\nThe authority of the President to dismiss Ukraine's parliament was challenged in Ukraine's Constitutional Court amidst concern that the President's actions were unconstitutional in that he had exceeded his authority to dismiss Ukraine's parliament.\n\nAn appeal against each of the president's decrees was lodged in the Constitutional Court.\n\nThe associated explanatory report under the sub-heading of Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe - Resolution 1549 (2007) Functioning of democratic institutions in Ukraine expressed concern that \n\nIn emphasis the report stated \n\n\nPursuant to of Ukraine's Constitution\nJudges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine are subject to the guarantees of independence and immunity and to the grounds for dismissal from office envisaged by , and the requirements concerning incompatibility as determined in , paragraph two of Ukraine's Constitution\n\n\nFollowing the president's intervention the Constitutional Court still has not ruled on the question of legality of the president's actions.\n\nStepan Havrysh, the President's appointee to the Constitutional Court, in prejudgment of the court's decision and without authorization from the Court itself, commented in an interview published on 24 July \n\nOleksandr Lavrynovych, Ukrainian Minister for Justice, in an interview published on 3 August is quoted as saying \n\n\nOn 24 May, Yushchenko fired the Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Svyatoslav Piskun, who was appointed by Yushchenko himself on 26 April, after Piskun refused to resign his place in the Verkhovna Rada as was required by the Ukrainian law, so as to not hold two positions at the same time. Yushchenko cited Constitution Article which states \"Where there emerge circumstances infringing requirements concerning the incompatibility of the deputy’s mandate with other types of activity, the People’s Deputy of Ukraine shall within twenty days from the date of the emergence of such circumstances discontinue such activity or lodge a personal application for divesting of People’s Deputy authority\" and Item 1 of Article 3 of Law № 2783-IV when issuing his decree on the dismissal of the Prosecutor General. The President appointed Viktor Shemchuk, the Prosecutor General of Crimea, as a replacement to Svyatoslav Piskun.\nAfter Piskun's dismissal, thousands of protesters marched to his office in Kiev protesting his dismissal. Piskun, accompanied by several deputies from the Party of Regions, tried to enter his office in Kiev, however, were prevented from doing so by the Members of the State Protection Department, with Valeriy Heletiy at their lead. Valeriy Heletiy and the deputies were later joined by the Communist Party leader Petro Symonenko and supporters of the Party of Regions. The Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Vasyl Tsushko, ordered Ukraine's Berkut riot police to surround the building, defying Yushchenko's order for the Ukrainian security services not to get involved in the political conflict. Tsushko responded to Yushchenko's dismissal of Piskun as a \"coup d'état.\"\n\nOn 25 May, Viktor Yushchenko ordered a decree, taking control over 40,000 interior ministry troops. Meanwhile, the troops were acting on orders of the Interior Minister of Ukraine Vasyl Tsushko, who was charged with abuse of office on 25 May.\n\nOn 26 May, thousands of Interior Ministry troops moved towards Ukraine's capital Kiev on the President's orders. The troops were only lightly armed with riot gear and no lethal weapons. On their way to Kiev, the troops were stopped by Ukrainian Traffic Police. Deputy Interior Minister Mykhailo Kornienko stated that about 2,050 troops from 13 out of 25 of Ukrainian oblasts were deployed. According to the Vice Commander of the Interior Ministry troops Mykola Mishakin, about 3,480 troops were deployed near Kiev. Since their entrance into the capital was blocked by Berkut and the Government Automobile Inspection, the Interior Ministry troops would walk to Kiev. Mykola Mishakin stated:\n\nAfter over seven hours of discussions, Yushchenko, Yanukovych, and the Verkhovna Rada Speaker have come to an agreement by setting the date for new parliamentary elections on 30 September 2007.\n\nAfter coming to a compromise on an election date, the Verkhovna Rada was given two days to accept the new elections and legally prepare for them. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopted a bill that would allow funding for the early parliamentary elections, and the Rada approved the necessary laws on 1 June 2007. Yushchenko formally called the election on 5 June 2007, thus ending the political crisis.\n\n"}
{"id": "33526001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33526001", "title": "Acceptable Market Name", "text": "Acceptable Market Name\n\nIn U.S. food regulations, an Acceptable Market Name is a set of guidelines for names of seafood sold in interstate commerce.\n\nThe Acceptable Market Names are recommendations, and not legally enforceable.\n\n"}
{"id": "48468363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48468363", "title": "Accountability and Justice Act", "text": "Accountability and Justice Act\n\nThe Accountability and Justice Act () of 2008 is a legislative act passed by the Iraqi Council of Representatives in January 2008.\n\nThe law reformed the practice of de-Baathification, extending de-Baathification to the judiciary, while reinstating jobs and pensions to low-ranking members of the ousted Baath Party. The De-Ba'athification Council was made permanent though renamed to \"Accountability and Justice Commission\" and reformed in scope and policy.\n\nThe law was passed by the Council of Representatives on 12 January 2008, with only 140 out of 275 members being present. After Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi refused to sign, the controversial law was passed by a majority vote by the Presidency Council.\n\nThe law defines de-Baathification as \"The procedures… to intellectually, administratively, politically, culturally and economically dismantle the Ba’ath Party system in Iraqi society, state institutions, and civil society institutions.\" The Ba'ath Party is recognized as the party \"which took power on 17/07/1968 and [was] prohibited by article (7) of the Iraqi constitution.\" A member of the Ba'ath Party, subject to the penalties of the law is defined as, \"any individual who joined the Ba'ath Party and gave an oath of allegiance to it.\" Collaborators are defined as any individual who worked with or benefited from the Ba'ath Party.\n\nThe next sections of the law detail the composition and qualifications of the members of the Commission, and the purposes of the Commission. The stated goal of the Commission is similar to the Coalition Provisional Authority's (CPA) goal of eliminating any and all traces of Ba'ath Party ideology, in any manifestation, from the political, social, and economic life of Iraq. Additionally, the Commission has the duty of compiling the names and information about members to be maintained in archives that document the Ba'athist period in Iraqi history. Iraqis allowed to return to work in the government are those who held low level positions in the Ba'ath Party are allowed to return to work in some public sector jobs. However, several key positions and ministries are still barred from these individuals. Additionally, anyone who profited from being a member of the Ba'ath Party, is barred from additional posts in the public sector. There is also the possibility that certain individuals will be eligible for pensions, and the law also creates an appeals process for those deemed subject to its penalties. Finally, the end of the law provides the Commission’s composition, and the justifications for the law.\n\nAccording to the International Centre for Transitional Justice, the new Justice and Accountability Act is not exactly the reconciliatory reform envisioned. It maintains most of the structures of the Higher National De-Ba'athification Council (or Independent Iraqi De-Ba'athification Council), and in some cases expands the power of the council to previously immune ministries. However, the ability for some previously excluded Iraqis to obtain some form of public sector work, and the extension of pensions to some Ba'ath Party members are considered positive developments by the International Centre for Transitional Justice. In reality, the law provides for some protections previously withheld from affected Iraqis while maintaining the structure of CPA Order Nos. 1 and 2, and in some cases expanding upon the powers within those Orders.\n\nThe \"Accountability and Justice Act\" was passed on 12 January 2008 as the 10th law passed by the Council of Representatives in that year. However, only 140 out of 275 members were present. After Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi refused to sign, the controversial law was passed by a majority vote by the Presidency Council.\n\nIraqi diplomat Feisal al-Istrabadi, lead drafter of the 2004 Transitional Administrative Law, praised the law as correcting the overreach of Paul Bremer's original De-Ba'athification decrees, which \"captured a large number of people who were innocent of any wrongdoing by any objective measure and were deprived of the ability to earn a living and support their families,\" thereby feeding the insurgency. Furthermore, though the majority of Ba'ath members were Shia, it was the Sunnis who were disproportionately removed from offices, to the extent that the latter called it \"de-Sunnification\". Whether the new was a positive step toward reconciliation, depended on how the law would be applied.\n"}
{"id": "12483388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12483388", "title": "American Freedom Campaign", "text": "American Freedom Campaign\n\nThe American Freedom Campaign is an organization that has as its goal to put restoration of the Constitution on the agenda for Democratic presidential candidates, roughly parallel to the goal of the American Freedom Agenda for Republican candidates, although Democratic and Republican candidates could sign on to both pledges. It was launched in July 2007 by the Center for Constitutional Rights, Human Rights Watch and MoveOn. \n\nThe group urges presidential candidates to sign its \"American Freedom Pledge\", which reads:\nWe are Americans, and in our America we do not torture, we do not imprison people without charge or legal recourse, allow our phones and emails to be tapped without a court order, and above all we do not give any President unchecked power. I pledge to fight to protect and defend the Constitution from assault by any President.\n\nThe Constitution protects American Freedom. With checks and balances, and basic legal rights, it has prevented tyranny and safeguarded our liberty. Yet today, under the pretense of the \"war on terror,\" the White House is dismantling the Constitution, concentrating power in the President and undermining the rule of law. THIS IS UN-AMERICAN.\n\nI hereby join the American Freedom Campaign to educate my neighbors about the threat and urge my representatives to confront and correct these abuses of our America.\nAFC was co-founded by Naomi Wolf, Wes Boyd and William Haseltine.\n\n"}
{"id": "1063650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1063650", "title": "Angary", "text": "Angary\n\nAngary (Lat. \"jus angariae\"; Fr. \"droit d'angarie\"; Ger. \"Angarie\"; from the Gr. , \"angareia\", \"the office of an (courier or messenger)\") is the name given to the right of a belligerent (most commonly, a government or other party in conflict) to seize and apply for the purposes of war (or to prevent the enemy from doing so) any kind of property on belligerent territory, including that which may belong to subjects or citizens of a neutral state.\n\nArticle 53 of the Regulations respecting the Laws and Customs of War on Land, annexed to the Hague Convention of 1899 on the same subject, provides that railway plant, land telegraphs, telephones, steamers and other ships (other than such as are governed by maritime law), though belonging to companies or private persons, \"may be used\" for military operations, but \"must be restored at the conclusion of peace \"and\" indemnities paid for them.\" Article 54 adds that \"the plant of railways coming from neutral states, whether the property of those states or of companies or private persons, shall be sent back to them as soon as possible.\"\n\nThese articles seem to sanction the right of angary against neutral property, while limiting it as against both belligerent and neutral property. It may be considered, however, that the right to use implies as wide a range of contingencies as the \"necessity of war\" can be made to cover.\n\n"}
{"id": "26276026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26276026", "title": "Assassination of Russia", "text": "Assassination of Russia\n\nAssassination of Russia () is a 2002 documentary film that describes the September 1999 Russian apartment bombings as a terrorism act committed by Russian state security services.\n\nThe film was created in 2001 by French producers and Charles Gazelle. Yuri Felshtinsky and Alexander Litvinenko worked as consultants for the film; the film was made on the basis of their book \"\".\n\nThe French producers initially worked for Russian TV company NTV to expand their program \"Sugar of Ryazan\" and later to TV-6. When TV-6 channel was closed by Russian authorities, the film was 70% completed. The remaining funds were provided by Boris Berezovsky.\n\nLeader of party \"Liberal Russia\", Sergei Yushenkov flew to the premier on March 5, 2002, in London, to announce that his party is going to distribute copies of the film around the country to demonstrate \"how the secret services deceived Russian citizens\".\n\nThis film was broadcast by the main TV channels of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Russian State Duma Deputy Yuli Rybakov brought a hundred copies to St. Petersburg, but the copies were confiscated at customs in violation of his parliamentary immunity. No TV station in Russia was able to show the film. Tens of thousands of copies were sold in Russia in 2002. Sergei Yushenkov presented the film at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in 2002, decrying lack of civilian control over the Russian armed forces including the secret services. A staffer in Senate Foreign Relations Committee said, \"We just cannot go out and say that the president of Russia is a mass murderer. But it is important that we know it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26409649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26409649", "title": "Bob Sang", "text": "Bob Sang\n\nBob Sang (27 March 1948 - 5 June 2009) was appointed by London South Bank University as the UK's first professor of Patient and Public Involvement in 2006. He had also been a Visiting Fellow at CENTRIM.\n\nHe was educated at the University of East Anglia but failed his chemistry degree there. He later returned to studying and completed a public administration degree at the University of Sussex.\n\nHe was a pioneer of the idea of involving patients, service users and the public in health and social care, describing himself as a 'constructive subversive'.\n\nSang was a prolific networker and writer, contributing articles to journals including \"Health Policy Insight\", \"British Journal of Healthcare Management\", the \"Journal of Integrated Care\" and the \"Health Service Journal\".\n\nFollowing a career which combined academia, research and working in mental health, he established his own independent consultancy, Sang Jacobsson. His work through Sang Jacobsson included mentoring, training, policy work, facilitation and analysis, and was mainly for clients in the NHS and the UK health economy.\n\nSang was the co-founder with Jane Keep of the Engaging Communities Learning Network for the National Association of Primary and Care Trusts (NatPaCT), which was part of the now-closed NHS Modernisation Agency. The Engaging Communities Learning Network was designed to help NHS primary care trusts (PCTs) share good practice and learning about patient and public involvement and engagement.\n\nHe provided professional supervision to the ground-breaking Health Foundation Leadership Fellows Scheme which over five years directly involved patients and users in the leadership development of 64 NHS clinicians and managers.\n\nHe died of acute pancreatitis on 5 June 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2552509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2552509", "title": "Breakthrough Collaborative", "text": "Breakthrough Collaborative\n\nBreakthrough Collaborative (formerly Summerbridge National) is the umbrella organization of a collaborative of programs across the United States and in Hong Kong that aim to effect positive change in urban schools. Breakthrough offers high-potential, under-served middle school students the opportunity to participate in rigorous academic enrichment programs throughout the summer and school year. Students make a commitment to participate in the program through middle school and high school and in turn, Breakthrough provides many services to students and their families, ranging from academic enrichment to one-on-one tutoring to high school and college preparation. Additionally, all Breakthrough classes are taught by talented, high-achieving high school and college students from around the country who are interested in the field of education. Through the teacher development program offered by Breakthrough, these young educators become potential candidates for professional teaching and educational leadership positions after college. Teaching at Breakthrough has been named a Top Ten Internship in America by the Princeton Review, as well as other prestigious national organizations, and a 1999 Stanford University report stated that \"72% [of Breakthrough teachers] went on to work in other educationally related careers or internships after teaching at a Breakthrough site.\"\n\nBreakthrough was founded in 1978 by Lois Loofbourrow at San Francisco University High School. Since then, numerous sites have opened, all in various sized urban areas. The sites are joined together under the umbrella organization, Breakthrough Collaborative, based in San Francisco. Sites function either through public-private partnerships with an independent educational institution or maintain their own 501(c)3 status.\n\nSince its inception in 1978, Breakthrough programs around the world have generated thousands of student and teacher alums. In 2003, the Summerbridge/Breakthrough Alumni Network or SBAN was formed through the efforts of alumni. SBAN is based out of Atlanta, but holds annual conferences around the United States.\n\nIn March 2006, the 22 host schools of Breakthrough programs were awarded the Klingenstein Leadership Award by the Klingenstein Center at Teachers College, Columbia University. Breaking from the tradition of giving this prestigious award to an individual, 26 independent schools received the 2006 award. Past recipients include William Durden, Diane Ravitch, Robert Coles, and Howard Gardner. In 2007, the Johns Hopkins University Center for Summer Learning awarded Breakthrough Collaborative and its affiliate site in Pittsburgh, with the Excellence in Summer Learning Award for exemplary mission, performance, and infrastructure in out-of-school academic support.\n\nBreakthrough at Hong Kong is called Summerbridge Hong Kong. Summerbridge Hong Kong is the only site outside of the United States. A key difference is that at Summerbridge Hong Kong, teachers teach self-designed topics with support from the Dean of Faculty. A typical day for a Summerbridge Hong Kong student consists of morning all-school meeting (ASM), classes in the morning, lunch with teachers, and extracurricular time.\n\nBreakthrough programs are offered in the following locations:\n\n"}
{"id": "5723062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5723062", "title": "British Parliamentary approval for the invasion of Iraq", "text": "British Parliamentary approval for the invasion of Iraq\n\nBritish Parliamentary approval for the invasion of Iraq was given by the elected members of the British House of Commons to Tony Blair's government on the eve of the 2003 invasion of Iraq, in a series of two votes, on 18 March 2003.\n\nThere is no constitutional requirement for the government to seek any explicit form of Parliamentary approval before committing British forces to military action. The Royal Prerogative permits the government, in the Sovereign's name, to give the order to begin military action.\n\nHowever the political controversy over whether to participate in military action, which covered the legal legitimacy as well as foreign policy questions, had been under discussion for many years. As early as 1999, the anti-war MP Tam Dalyell had proposed a Ten Minute Rule Bill called Military Action Against Iraq (Parliamentary Approval) Bill to \"require the prior approval, by a simple majority of the House of Commons, of military action by British forces against Iraq\". Dalyell was given leave to bring in his Bill, but it could not be debated and voted upon because as a Bill that affected the Royal Prerogative, the consent of the Queen was needed before it could be debated in Parliament (known as Queen's Consent). The Government advised Queen Elizabeth II to refuse to grant consent, which she did, as constitutional convention requires.\n\nThe deployments of UK forces to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, along with forces of the United States, were a clear precursor to military action. Several debates were held on Britain's Iraq policy. Finally, on 17 March 2003, US President Bush gave an ultimatum to Saddam Hussein to leave power within 48 hours or face military action. Previous votes had endorsed government policy of confronting Iraq through the UN.\n\nThe Prime Minister has the power to declare war, as an exercise of the Royal Prerogative, without the approval of Parliament. Before or after the start of previous wars, there had normally been debate in Parliament; however for the first time a vote was held, apparently allowing Parliament to block the declaration of war, even though it was, \"purely symbolic\" and \"not binding on the government\". The debate was held on 18 March 2003, and lasted from midday to 10 pm, at which time the two Parliamentary votes were held.\n\nThe Labour and Conservative parties, the two largest parties, were both committed to approving the invasion, but a quarter of Labour Party MPs rebelled and voted against the invasion. The Liberal Democrats, who had one in twelve of the MPs in parliament, also opposed the invasion.\n\nIf the vote had been lost, many Labour ministers would have resigned, including the Prime Minister Tony Blair, who suggested in his speech that he would resign if the vote was not passed.\n\nFrontbench members of a party by tradition must resign from that position before they can vote against their party. The expected mass of resignations from among some of the ranks of these parties did not materialise beyond the resignation of Robin Cook.\n\nThe government proposed a motion in Parliament, stating:\n\nThis House notes its decisions of 25 November 2002 and 26 February 2003 to endorse UN Security Council Resolution 1441; recognises that Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and long range missiles, and its continuing non-compliance with Security Council Resolutions, pose a threat to international peace and security; notes that in the 130 days since Resolution 1441 was adopted Iraq has not co-operated actively, unconditionally and immediately with the weapons inspectors, and has rejected the final opportunity to comply and is in further material breach of its obligations under successive mandatory UN Security Council Resolutions; regrets that despite sustained diplomatic effort by Her Majesty's Government it has not proved possible to secure a second Resolution in the UN because one Permanent Member of the Security Council made plain in public its intention to use its veto whatever the circumstances; notes the opinion of the Attorney General that, Iraq having failed to comply and Iraq being at the time of Resolution 1441 and continuing to be in material breach, the authority to use force under Resolution 678 has revived and so continues today; believes that the United Kingdom must uphold the authority of the United Nations as set out in Resolution 1441 and many Resolutions preceding it, and therefore supports the decision of Her Majesty's Government that the United Kingdom should use all means necessary to ensure the disarmament of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction; offers wholehearted support to the men and women of Her Majesty's Armed Forces now on duty in the Middle East; in the event of military operations requires that, on an urgent basis, the United Kingdom should seek a new Security Council Resolution that would affirm Iraq's territorial integrity, ensure rapid delivery of humanitarian relief, allow for the earliest possible lifting of UN sanctions, an international reconstruction programme, and the use of all oil revenues for the benefit of the Iraqi people and endorse an appropriate post-conflict administration for Iraq, leading to a representative government which upholds human rights and the rule of law for all Iraqis; and also welcomes the imminent publication of the Quartet's roadmap as a significant step to bringing a just and lasting peace settlement between Israelis and Palestinians and for the wider Middle East region, and endorses the role of Her Majesty's Government in actively working for peace between Israel and Palestine.\nAn amendment was proposed urging the government to wait for further UN approval. It removed the text \"recognises that Iraq's weapons ... in the Middle East\" and replaced it with:\n\nThis House... believes that the case for war against Iraq has not yet been established, especially given the absence of specific United Nations authorisation; but, in the event that hostilities do commence, pledges its total support for the British forces engaged in the Middle East, expresses its admiration for their courage, skill and devotion to duty, and hopes that their tasks will be swiftly concluded with minimal casualties on all sides...\nParliament voted on the amended text in a vote at 9:15 pm, but the amendment was defeated by 396 to 217 votes.\n\nAt 10 pm, the motion without the amendment was passed by 412 to 149 votes, authorising the invasion. The British military campaign against Iraq, Operation Telic, began one day later.\n\n"}
{"id": "40479773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40479773", "title": "Ceresco, Wisconsin", "text": "Ceresco, Wisconsin\n\nCeresco, also known as the Wisconsin Phalanx, was a commune founded in Fond du Lac County, Wisconsin in 1844 by followers of the communitarian socialist ideas of Charles Fourier. About 180 people lived in the Association at its peak, farming nearly 2,000 acres. It was one of the three longest-lived Fourierist Associations in the United States, dissolving in 1850, and was unique for having assets which exceeded liabilities at the time of its termination.\n\nSince the Fourierist Association had registered their community under state law, the village of Ceresco, Wisconsin survived the collapse of the utopian socialist experiment of the 1840s. Remaining members of the Wisconsin Phalanx later formed a living cooperative and study group called the Ceresco Union in 1855, espousing the doctrines of religious freethought and interpersonal free love until disbursed by a mob of outraged citizens.\n\nIn 1858 the remaining inhabitants of Ceresco were annexed by the nearby town of Ripon, Wisconsin.\n\nIn 1832 the son of a wealthy New York landowner, Albert Brisbane (1809–1890), a student of philosophy in search of ideas for the betterment of humanity, was introduced to a newly published short work by philosopher Charles Fourier (1772–1837) entitled \"Treatise on Domestic and Agricultural Association.\" Brisbane was an immediate convert to the French thinker's ideas, which Fourier somewhat grandiosely ascribed to universal laws governing the development of society, the understanding of which allowed productive enterprise to be reorganized on a rational basis, production expanded, and human needs more readily fulfilled.\n\nIn 1832 Brisbane left for Paris to spend two years studying Fourier's system, taking personal tutelage from the 60-year-old theorist himself. Brisbane would make the acquaintance of other devotees of Fourier's ideas during this initial phase of the Fourierist movement, returning to the United States a committed believer and proselytizer of the Fourier's idea of \"Association.\" Brisbane would soon begin work translating and expounding upon the ideas of Fourier for an American audience, with his first and most famous book, \"Social Destiny of Man,\" seeing print in 1840.\n\nBrisbane's book was well-received and it enjoyed immediate success, gaining a broad readership among those concerned with the problems of society and helping to launch the Fourierist movement in the United States. Among those who read Brisbane's book and was thereby converted to the ideas of socialism was a young New York newspaper publisher, Horace Greeley, later elected to the US House of Representatives. Greeley would provide valuable service to the Fourierist movement by advancing its ideas in the pages of his newspaper of that day, \"The New Yorker,\" throughout 1840 and 1841, and offering Brisbane a column in his successor publication, the \"New York Tribune,\" from the time of its establishment in March 1842.\n\nA further book by Brisbane adapting Fourier's ideas to American conditions, entitled \"Association: Or, A Concise Exposition of the Practical Part of Fourier's Social Science,\" would be published in 1843. A faddish boom seeking to test Fourier's ideas on \"Association\" in practice soon followed, and from 1843 to 1845 more than 30 Fourierian \"phalanxes\" were established in a number of northern and midwestern states. The so-called Wisconsin Phalanx, known to its participants as Ceresco, was one of these practical experiments which attempted to put into practice the Fourierian ideas.\n\nThe Upper Midwest was not immune to the Fourierist hubbub that had begun to percolate in the United States in 1843. In the fall of that year the Franklin Lyceum of Southport (today known as Kenosha) began taking up discussion of Fourier's ideas in a series of public discussions. On November 21 the society debated the proposition \"Does the system of Fourier present a practicable plan for such a reorganization of society as will guard against our present social ills?\" After a week's pause, two more successive weekly meetings of the lyceum were dedicated to the Fourier program.\n\nOne of those Southport residents most interested in the Fourier system was a 30-year-old named Warren Chase, a future Wisconsin and California State Senator. Convinced of the applicability of Fourier's \"Associationist\" prescription, Chase committed himself to the emerging movement without reservation, organizing a series of preliminary meetings to draft a constitution for a local \"phalanx.\"\n\nOn March 23, 1844, a formal meeting of phalanx supporters was held at the Southport village schoolhouse and officers were elected in accordance with the constitution previously drafted. Five hundred copies of the group's constitution and bylaws were printed for public distribution and a group of three, including Warren Chase, were tapped as trustees of the phalanx, to serve as legal title-holders to all the property of the nascent community. A bond sale of $10,000 was approved and stock in the new enterprise began to be sold. Shares of stock were sold for $25 each, payable in cash or property. By the end of May 1844, membership in the forthcoming phalanx stood at 71.\n\nA domain for the phalanx had been located in the spring, and on May 8, 1844, the decision made to purchase 1.25 sections (800 acres) of attractive government land, located in a valley between two gentle hills. By that fall a total of 1.5 sections (960 acres) were purchased. Instructions were issued to participants to obtain a tent to provide temporary shelter until permanent housing could be constructed, and details for provisioning the settling party arranged.\n\nThe group arrived on the site on Saturday May 25, 1844 at 5 pm, naming their community \"Ceresco\" after Ceres, Roman goddess of the harvest. A total of 19 men and a 7-year-old boy were on hand for the launch, immediately dividing themselves into agricultural and mechanical series, with the former assigned the immediate task of beginning plowing while the latter began digging a cellar for the group's first frame building, intended as the central wing of a structure planned to be extended to 120 feet in length. Upon completion in 1845, the finished \"long building\" for collective housing would measure 208 feet long by 32 feet wide.\n\nAccording to the constitution of the Association, decisions were to be made by an elected group including four executive officers — a president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer — as well as a nine-person board of managers. It was specified that these officers could be removed from their positions for neglect of duty, absence, or incompetence. Three trustees were to hold title to the organization's property. The board of managers and officers were prohibited from entering into any contract without the unanimous approval of the community's stockholders.\n\nIn accordance with the Fourierist joint-stock system, individuals could participate either as stockholders or as members or as both. No person could be admitted to membership without approval of the board of managers, however, with the board given latitude to set conditions of membership. Membership could be terminated upon two weeks' notice, with those withdrawing from the Association to receive their pro rated share of profits of the enterprise up to that date.\n\nStockholders were to meet twice yearly. Stockholders received one vote for their first share and an additional vote for each five shares thereafter, the total of votes per individual not to exceed ten. Both men and women were allowed to hold stock and granted the voting rights associated with stock ownership.\n\nEvery December the cash value of the phalanx's real estate was to be estimated and any increase declared as payments for labor, divided according to hours worked, or shareholder profits, divided according to the number of shares held. Necessary products and board were to be furnished to the phalanx's members at cost and rent collected for living in the group's collective housing. Individuals were permitted to keep their own horse and carriage on the association's land, with payment to be made to cover the actual cost of animal maintenance.\n\nThe elected board of managers was to make the business decisions of the phalanx and to differentiate and assess the various types of work. Whenever five or more individuals engaged in a similar branch of industry, these were to organize as a \"group\" and to elect a foreman, who would be charged with keeping an account of the work performed by each member of that unit.\n\nMultiple groups in similar pursuits were to in turn organize themselves as a \"series\" and to elect a \"superintendent,\" who would assess the productiveness of each group in the series. Under the theoretical Fourierist scheme once a community grew to sufficient scale, these superintendents were to constitute themselves as a \"council of industry.\" This elaborate bureaucratic apparatus above the level of groups and foremen remained in the distant mists of Fourierian fantasy due to the small scale of the Wisconsin experiment, it should be noted.\n\nDisagreements were to be settled by arbitration, in which each involved party was to select an arbitrator, with the two arbitrators selecting a third. Decisions of the arbitrators could be appealed to the board, whose decision would be final. This system seems to have been effective, as no lawsuits ever took place between members of the phalanx, or between departing parties and the organized association, for the entire time of Ceresco's existence.\n\nThe \"domain\" of the Wisconsin Phalanx was obtained without the incurrence of mortgage debt. A stream called Crystal Creek ran through the property, with sufficient elevation to allow for installment of a water-driven mill. Quantities of limestone were on hand for the needs of construction and the land selected included a suitable mix of tillable prairie and timbler.\n\nUpon arrival late in the spring of 1844 the Ceresco colonists immediately planted 20 acres to spring crops, including potatoes, buckwheat, and turnips before turning to sowing 100 acres winter wheat. Three buildings were constructed by fall, enough to house about 80 men, women, and children. In accord with the Fourierist scheme, which placed emphasis on collective living, cooking was done in a single kitchen and meals served on a single table.\n\nTents remained in use for much of the first year, with sufficient accommodations finally constructed by the middle of September 1844 to allow their return to Southport.\n\nThe family unit was retained, with division expressing itself among the members of the Association over the system of collective living and eating. Permission was eventually given for individual families to be provided with foodstuffs for their own preparation, although the great majority of participants remained committed to Fourier's collectivist model through 1845.\n\nRegular meetings were held for the discussion of business, and social gatherings were frequent.\n\nLiquor was banished from the premises and Chase noting in his December 1845 annual report that \"the four great evils with which the world is afflicted — intoxication, lawsuits, quarreling, and profane swearing — never have, and with the present character and prevailing habits of our members, never can, find admittance into our society.\"\n\nThis moral code was enforced by the threat of expulsion, which could be enacted by a simple majority vote of residents. The list of specified offenses for which expulsion could result was extensive, including \"rude and indecent behavior, drunkenness, trafficking in intoxicating drinks, profane swearing, lying, stealing or defrauding another, protracted idleness, willfully injuring the property of the association, knowingly consenting to the injury of the association or any individual member thereof, gambling, [or] habitually engaging in censoriousness and faultfinding...\"\n\nThe Wisconsin Phalanx's deep concern with profanity, honesty, and temperance was not accidental. Although nominally secular, American Fourierism was marked with strong religious overtones. American popularizer Albert Brisbane was emphatic in this regard, quoting Fourier's assertion that \"The Love of God will become in this new Order the most ardent Love among Men.\" Not only would the fidelity of marital union be preserved, Brisbane promised, but Association would \"respect sacredly the Religious Sentiment, and preserve religious Worship, which is the external manifestation of that Sentiment in the human soul.\"\n\nBrisbane expanded this perspective at some length:\n\"The horrors perpetrated in religious wars and persecutions, the atrocities of the Inquisition and other outrages committed in the name of Religion are certainly appalling to contemplate. Struck with these abuses and believing them inherent in Religion, some reformers have wished to abolish it; they have not had the perspicuity to separate the abuses of Religion from Religion itself — to separate the effect of sectarian Fanaticism, acting upon ignorant and deluded minds, from true Religion and the high and exalted sentiments connected with it...\"\n\nUnsurprisingly, Brisbane's Christian reformationism found sympathetic ears among Wisconsin's Fourier enthusiasts living at Ceresco, who \"were rather religious rather than irreligious,\" the ranks of which included Methodist preacher Uriel Farmin and Baptist minister George H. Stebbins.\n\nSunday school and Bible study classes were conducted, with various religious denominations making use of the main hall for their services in sequence. De facto leader of the community Warren Chase emphasized the religious harmony of members of the phalanx, noting in a letter that \"although we have many members of different religious societies, they all seem determined to lay aside metaphysical differences, and make a united social effort, founded on the fundamental principles of religion.\"\n\nOutside suspicions that the Wisconsin Phalanx was irreligious were hotly denied. In June 1848 one member replied to such a charge with a published letter in \"The Investigator,\" which declared:\n\"Some of us are and have been Methodists, Baptists, Presbyterians, Congregationalists, etc. Others have never been members of any church, but with very few exceptions very readily admit the authenticity and moral value of the Scriptures. The ten commandments are the sum, substance, and foundation of all true law. Add to this the gospel of love, and you have a code of laws worthy of adoption and practice by any set of men, and upon which associationists must base themselves, or they never can succeed.\"\n\nThis assessment was confirmed by a Methodist circuit rider who visited the community, who noted that \"though a few of the men were professed infidels, they always received ministers gladly and treated them with consideration.\" Other observers contended that religious observation declined in the enterprise's final years.\n\nCeresco continued to grow through 1846, boosting its debt-free acreage to 1,633 — of which about 800 acres were to be committed to crops. The board was extremely selective with the admission of new members, accepting only one new family between December 1845 and March 1846, despite a plethora of applications.\n\nWarren Chase was ebullient about the phalanx's prospects and spoke of the Fourier system in almost mystical terms, writing:\n\"Success with us is no longer a matter of doubt... We feel and known that our condition and prospects are truly cheering, and to the friends of the cause we can say, Come on, not to join us, but to form other Associations; for we can not receive one-tenth of those who apply for admission. Nothing but the general principles of Association are lawful tender with us. Money will not buy admission for those who have no faith in the principles, but who merely believe, as most of our neighbors do, that we shall get rich... With our material, our means, and the principles of eternal truth on our side, success is neither doubtful nor surprising.\"\n\nUnsurprisingly, educational and cultural projects proceeded at a slower pace than basic construction and agriculture, with a stone schoolhouse eventually constructed in 1845 and a reading room for adult members unveiled towards the start of 1846. A 60-foot long washhouse, a henhouse, and a sawmill during the commune's first 18 months, and a blacksmith and a cobbler practiced their respective crafts. Agriculture remained the chief preoccupation of most members of the phalanx, with a total of 1,553 acres obtained for Ceresco through 1845.\n\nBy the end of 1846 the settlement had grown to 180 residents — 56 men, 37 women, and 87 children and youth under age 21. Of these, there were 36 families and 30 single adults. This would mark the peak membership for the Ceresco association. Ominously for the fate of the collective enterprise, only a minority of Ceresco associationists were eating together at the general table by this date, with 100 people part of the 21 families which prepared their meals and ate as traditional nuclear units.\n\nDespite the loss of four families over 1846, applicants still far surpassed the available space, with fewer than one-quarter of prospective associationists admitted to membership in the phalanx.\n\nWith the Fourierist movement in rapid decline on a national basis in 1846 and 1847, the Wisconsin Phalanx's place became even more prominent in the pages of \"The Harbinger,\" the national organ of the Associationists. Ceresco was not immune to the general malaise, however, and its own membership began to slowly decline. Moreover, even the ever-optimistic Warren Chase was forced to admit that \"three or four\" of the remaining families were \"restless, discontented spirits\" who were not \"contented and happy.\"\n\nThe reality of collective living was a disrupting influence. The merging of family units into one great household and the consequent formation of humanitarian bonds was a fundamental tenet of Fourierism, with Albert Brisbane describing the shattering of familial isolation in enthusiastic terms in his short 1843 book:\n\"...[A]s man is by nature a social being, he requires, and should form, the largest social unions possible, and numerous and various social ties with his fellow-men. The present system of society is based upon the smallest possible social union — that of a single family in a separate house by themselves. A true Social Order should be based upon large Associations of about eighteen hundred persons or three hundred families, and not upon small Associations of six or eight individuals, or single families.\"\n\nThe reality of tightly shared accommodations, with numerous families occupying rooms in a single crowded \"long house,\" proved less than compelling for many members of the phalanx's resident community. The community was sharply divided over the matter of the construction of new collective living quarters as opposed to comfortable accommodation for individual families, while an increasing number of committed vegetarians made common dining increasingly impractical. Moreover, the lack of a proper reading room galled many of the intellectual members of the group.\n\nAs land values escalated and the phalanx's financial status seemed more secure, the board began requiring larger and larger cash investments for admission to membership. Consequently, few new members were gained; energetic workers committed to the associationist ideal without sufficient financial means were turned away. Stagnation was the result.\n\nBy the end of 1847 resident membership at Ceresco had fallen to 157 people — 52 men and 34 women and 71 children and youths under age 21. Thirty-two families were in residence, with four families bought out of their investment by the community during the course of the year. The community's flour mill had finally begun operation in June and increased property values helped to keep the Association solvent and a total of 1,713 acres were owned by the Phalanx. Nevertheless, indications of stagnation and decline had begun to make themselves evident.\n\nThose departing were bought out of their original investments by the Wisconsin Phalanx corporation. As the phalanx was heavily invested in land and infrastructure and available cash was in short supply, these payments generally took the form of orders on the treasury payable at some future date, usually bearing 10 or 12 percent interest.\n\nMembership continued to slide in 1848, with only 29 families with 120 people remaining to be counted in the annual report prepared each December. Six families had left during the year and only three had been gained; in addition there had been seven deaths, mostly of young children.\n\nBy the summer of 1849 it had become clear that dissolution of the Wisconsin Phalanx was imminent. Many of those who had not departed Ceresco were interested in obtaining pieces of the communal lands and forming a traditional village on the site. At the association's request, the Marquette County surveyor was employed to survey communal lands into discrete parcels.\n\nDetermined to avoid legal action, the community began to liquidate its movable assets to cover the redemption of stock held by departing members. From a high point of $33,000 in stock, by the first of 1850 the total had been whittled down to $23,000 outstanding. The sale of land was blocked by the Wisconsin Phalanx's legal charter, however, which required unanimous consent of stockholders or a legislative act to allow land sale. The latter course of action was followed and on January 29, 1850, the Wisconsin State Legislature passed a bill allowing the association's 9-member council \"to sell and convey real estate by their official act; also to lay out and have recorded a village plat with streets and squares and public lots.\"\n\nPublic sale of the phalanx's lands began in April 1850. By the end of the summer most of the land had been sold, with the money received used to buy back outstanding shares of stock, with the formal understanding that any surplus generated over par value would be split by the corporation's former stockholders. A surplus of approximately 8 percent over par was accumulated during the sell-off and distributed to former members according to this formula.\n\nLedger books were finally closed on the community in 1852, with all assets sold and the proceeds distributed.\n\nThe actual cause of the dissolution remained a matter of some mystery among contemporary observers, with Everett Chamberlain declaring that \"\"Human nature\" was the rock on which this fine ship split, as did all other argosies bearing the banner of Owen or Fourier.\" Others have shared the view that it was the escalation of property value and a desire to \"cash out\" profitably which made liquidation of the Wisconsin Phalanx inevitable.\n\nOn April 2, 1853, the Wisconsin Legislature passed a statute merging the villages of Ceresco and Ripon and naming the resultant village \"Morena.\" The remaining inhabitants ignored the new name, incorporating as the city of Ripon in 1858.\n\nA new radical living cooperative and study group called the Ceresco Union was established in Ceresco, Wisconsin in 1855. This group promoted the controversial doctrines of religious free thinking and interpersonal free love, offending the conservative moral values of others in the area. This last experimental communal enclave was disbursed by an angry mob one night, which broke windows and doors and caused those being attacked to flee the area.\n\nThe papers of the Wisconsin Phalanx were donated to the Ripon Historical Society by Robert D. Mason, the last president of the group, shortly before his death in 1901. Included were membership records, financial records, correspondence, and legal documents such as deeds and mortgages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13324187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13324187", "title": "Chief Medical Officer", "text": "Chief Medical Officer\n\nChief Medical Officer (CMO) is the title used in many countries for the senior government official designated head of medical services, sometimes at the national level. The post is held by a physician who serves to advise and lead a team of medical experts on matters of public health importance.\n\nThe post of Chief Medical Officer dates back to Victorian times. The equivalent title may go under different names across countries, for example known as the Surgeon General in the United States and the Chief Public Health Officer in Canada.\n\nBy extension, Chief Medical Officer is also used as a job title, for the physician who is the professional lead of all physicians at a hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "37777670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37777670", "title": "Collective intentionality", "text": "Collective intentionality\n\nIn the philosophy of mind, collective intentionality characterizes the intentionality that occurs when two or more individuals undertake a task together. Examples include two individuals carrying a heavy table up a flight of stairs or dancing a tango.\n\nThis phenomenon is approached from psychological and normative perspectives, among others. Prominent philosophers working in the psychological manner are Raimo Tuomela, Kaarlo Miller, John R. Searle, and Michael E. Bratman. Margaret Gilbert takes a normative approach dealing specifically with group formation. David Velleman is also concerned with how groups are formed, but his account lacks the normative element present in Gilbert.\n\nThe notion that collectives are capable of forming intentions can be found, whether implicitly or explicitly, in literature going back thousands of years. For example, ancient texts such as Plato's \"Republic\" discuss the cooperative determination of laws and social order by the group composed of society as a whole. This theme was later expanded into social contract theory by Enlightenment-era philosophers such as Thomas Hobbes and John Locke. In the 20th century, the likes of Wilfrid Sellars and Anthony Quinton noted the existence of \"We-Intentions\" amid broader discussion of the concept of intentionality, and thus laid the groundwork for the focused philosophical analysis of collective intentionality that began in the late 1980s.\n\nContemporary philosophical discussion of collective intentionality was initiated by Raimo Tuomela and Kaarlo Miller's \"We-Intentions\". In this paper, Tuomela and Miller assert three conditions necessary for a collective intention, highlighting the importance of beliefs among the agents of the group. After citing examples that are commonly accepted as requiring more than one member to participate (carrying a table upstairs, playing tennis, toasting to a friend, conversing, etc.), they state their criteria:\n\nTo illustrate this idea, imagine Anne and Bob intend to carry a table (that is far too heavy for one person to carry) upstairs. In order for this action to qualify as a we-intention, Anne first needs to intend to do her part in carrying the table. Next, Anne needs to believe that carrying the table upstairs is possible, and that Bob intends to do his part in carrying. Finally, Anne needs to believe that Bob also believes that carrying the table upstairs is possible. If all of these conditions are met, then Anne and Bob have collective intentions under Tuomela and Miller's criteria.\n\nJohn Searle's 1990 paper, \"Collective Intentions and Actions\" offers another interpretation of collective action. In contrast to Tuomela and Miller, Searle claims that collective intentionality is a \"primitive phenomenon, which cannot be analyzed as the summation of individual intentional behavior\". He exemplifies the fundamental distinction between \"I-intentions\" and \"We-intentions\" by comparing the hypothetical case of a set of picnickers and a dance troupe. During a rainstorm, each picnicker \"spontaneously\" runs for cover. On the other hand, the members of the dance troupe run for cover \"as part of a preconceived routine\". Searle claims that the picnickers, whose intentions are individually oriented and simply happen to coincide, do not display collective intentionality, while members of the dance troupe do, because they deliberately cooperate with one another.\n\nSearle's rebuttal to Tuomela and Miller's account begins with a counterexample involving a group of business school graduates who intend to pursue their own selfish interests, but believe that by doing so, they will indirectly serve humanity. These young businessmen believe that their fellow graduates will do likewise, but do not actively \"cooperate\" with one another in pursuing their goals. Searle holds that this example fulfills all of Tuomela and Miller's criteria for collective intentionality. However, he claims that collective intentionality does not actually exist in such a situation unless the graduates have organized and formed an explicit \"pact\" with one another to serve humanity through self-interested action.\n\nAlthough a \"we-intention\" is always held by an individual, it must make fundamental reference to a collective formed in conjunction with the other individual(s). For instance, two individuals who, while sharing the labor of hollandaise-sauce production, each believe the proposition \"\"We\" are making hollandaise sauce\", have formed a collective intention. This would not exist if they only held beliefs to the effect of \"\"I\" am stirring\", or \"\"I\" am pouring\". It is thus, Searle claims, that collective intentionality is not reducible to individual intentionality.\n\nMichael Bratman's 1992 paper \"Shared Cooperative Activity\", contends that shared cooperative activity (SCA) can be reduced to \"I-intentions\". In other words, just as an individual can plan to act by him or herself, that same individual can also plan for a group to act. With this in mind, he presents three characteristics of shared cooperative activity:\n\nOne aspect of Bratman's argument that supports these criteria is the idea of meshing subplans. Bratman claims that in a shared cooperative activity, individuals' secondary plans do not need to be the same, but they cannot conflict. For example, consider his example of two people who intend to paint a house together. Let us call these two people Alice and Bill. Suppose Alice wants to paint the house red and Bill wants to paint the house blue. Both are aware that their subplans conflict, and that the other is aware of it as well. Bratman argues that even if Alice and Bill do end up painting the house together, they do not have a shared cooperative activity, because their subplans are in conflict. Furthermore, each participant must also be committed to having subplans that mesh. Without this commitment, participants might disregard others' subplans, leading to a lack of cooperation. However, he additionally claims that their subplans need not be identical. For instance, suppose Alice wants to use an inexpensive paint and Bill wants paint from a specific hardware store. In this case, there is a way that both subplans can achieved: they could buy an inexpensive paint from Bill's store of choice. The details of Bratman's view are as follows:\n\nOne work associated with Bratman is Facundo Alonso's \"Shared Intention, Reliance, and Interpersonal Obligations\". Alonso contends that shared intention is a basis for interpersonal obligation. He begins the paper by asserting characteristics of joint action, which do not include multiple agents acting individually or factors of body movements, but instead are shared or collective intentions to act. Alonso distinguishes the normative theory supplied by Gilbert and the descriptive theory supplied by Bratman. Whereas Bratman focuses on intents, Alonso is also careful to point out Tuomela and Miller's focus on action to describe the roots of joint action. Alonso attempts to compromise both views by taking a path where joint action is not necessarily a normative or descriptive case. He argues for a system built off Bratman's that can take place in a descriptive nature addressed by Margaret Gilbert.\n\nStephen Butterfill offers another response to Bratman's view. He argues that Bratman's account is unable to explain simple interactions between agents. For example, Butterfill states that Bratman cannot explain cooperative actions between very young children, who do not yet have an understanding of other minds.\n\nWhereas Bratman argues for a descriptive account of collective intentionality, other authors have taken a normative approach. Margaret Gilbert in \"Walking Together: A Paradigmatic Social Phenomena\", sets the conditions for people entering, enduring, and exiting acts of collective intentionality. Gilbert asserts that social groups in general can be defined by something as simple as two people walking together. In her analysis the basic conditions for collective intentions that must be satisfied are as follows:\n\nA number of philosophers have responded to the normative theory of Gilbert with papers that consider obligations, promises and commitments. One of these, Christopher McMahon, argues that Gilbert has observed crucial behavioral phenomena involved in acts of collective intentionality, but has misidentified the psychological dynamics underlying these phenomena. Specifically, he holds that the behaviors characterizing collective intentionality arise not from a set of mutual obligations which facilitate a \"right to rebuke\" but from the existence of de facto authority, or some kind of social decision-making process. This de facto authority gives one party a right to partially determine another's intentions.\n\nFacundo M. Alonso sets conditions for how the normative phenomenon of shared intention can arise. Alonso claims that shared intention involves mutual reliance between participants. He further argues for a cognitive requirement that each member publicly intends the joint activity. Thus, Alonso states, \"[R]elations of mutual reliance generate...interpersonal obligations between the participants\". As a result, shared intentions generate normative promises that are enforced by mutual reliance and relevant obligation.\n\nA. S. Roth offers his own modifications to Gilbert's account of intentionality. He, too, relies on a normative notion to explain collective intentions. Rather than obligations, however, Roth is interested in commitments. Roth enumerates four different types of commitment: participatory, contralateral, executive, and ipsilateral commitments. Roth claims that the contralateral commitments are necessary for joint actions to occur, and that they may have a moral component (though not necessarily). This opposes Gilbert's claim that the obligations found in joint activity have no moral component.\n\nChristopher Kutz's work \"Acting Together\" contests the basis for what is considered a group. When speaking of a group, it becomes common to say \"they\" did whatever action the group is seen as doing. However, Kutz explains that each person may have varying levels of involvement in their group or their group efforts. He also questions what obligations each member is considered to have to the group and what binds those individuals to their group. To illustrate his objections, Kutz describes two group types: executive and participatory. An \"executive\" commitment would extend to those members of a group who participate with others of a group only superficially but still carry the name of the group as a title. This includes people working in an office or an assembly line. A \"participatory\" group is involved directly with the process and end results of an action. Each member is assumed to have at least some knowledge of all of the plans and sub-plans for the actions taken by the group. This opens Kutz to a discussion about who, within the group, may be considered responsible for the actions of the group.\n\nJ. David Velleman provides a reaction to Gilbert as well as Searle. Velleman is concerned with explaining how a group is capable of making a decision, or, as he puts it, \"how... several different minds (can) submit themselves to a single making up\". To that end, he picks up Gilbert's notion of the 'pool of wills', that is, \"a single will forged from the wills of different individuals\". However, according to Velleman, Gilbert does not explain how such a thing can be formed. To solve this problem, he turns to a portion of Searle's theory of intentions, namely that an \"intention is a mental representation that causes behavior by representing itself as causing it\".\n\nVelleman explains that, since a representation is capable of causing behavior, and speech acts are a form of representation, it is possible for a speech act to cause a behavior. That is, saying a thing can cause one to do that thing. Thus, a speech act can, in itself, be an intention. This is critical for him to make the case that an agent, having made a decision or an intending speech act, can \"remain decided\". In other words, that agent can continue to intend after the speech act has been accomplished. With this, Velleman shows how an agent can make a decision for a group. If an agent utters a conditional intention, and another agent utters an intention that fulfills the conditions present in the previous utterance, then the second agent has effectively decided the question for the first agent. Thus, a single collective will has been formed from multiple individual wills.\n\nTherefore, Velleman argues that collective intention is not the summation of multiple individual intentions, but rather one shared intention. This is accomplished by perceiving intentions as existing outside the mind of an individual and within a verbal statement. The verbal statements have causal power because of the desire to not speak falsely.\n\nCollective intentionality has also been approached in light of economic theories, including game theory. According to Natalie Gold and Robert Sugden, efforts to define collective intentions as individual intentions and related beliefs (such as those of Tuomela & Miller and Michael Bratman) fail because they allow obviously non-cooperative actions to be counted as cooperative. For example, in many simple games analyzed by game theory, the players are counted as acting jointly when they achieve the Nash equilibrium, even though that equilibrium state is neither optimal nor achieved cooperatively. In the prisoner's dilemma, the Nash equilibrium occurs when each player defects against the other, even though they would both do better if they cooperated.\n\nThe normal game for prisoners' dilemma is shown below:\n\nStandard game theory bases rationality in individual self-interest, and thus predicts that all rational agents will choose \"defect\". However, as Gold and Sugden note, between 40 and 50 percent of participants in prisoner's dilemma trials instead choose \"cooperate\". They argue that by employing we-reasoning, a team of people can intend and act in rational ways to achieve the outcome they, as a group, desire. Members of a group reason with the goal of achieving not \"what is best for me\", but \"what is best for us\". This distinction draws on Searle's claim that \"the notion of a we-intention...implies the notion of \"cooperation\"\". As a result, if each prisoner recognizes that he or she belongs to a team, he or she will conclude that cooperation is in the best interest of the group.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "192803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192803", "title": "Constitutional crisis", "text": "Constitutional crisis\n\nIn political science, a constitutional crisis is a problem or conflict in the function of a government that the political constitution or other fundamental governing law is perceived to be unable to resolve. There are several variations to this definition. For instance, one describes it as the crisis that arises out of the failure, or at least a strong risk of failure, of a constitution to perform its central functions. The crisis may arise from a variety of possible causes. For example, a government may want to pass a law contrary to its constitution; the constitution may fail to provide a clear answer for a specific situation; the constitution may be clear but it may be politically infeasible to follow it; the government institutions themselves may falter or fail to live up to what the law prescribes them to be; or officials in the government may justify avoiding dealing with a serious problem based on narrow interpretations of the law. Specific examples include the South African Coloured vote constitutional crisis in the 1950s, the secession of the southern U.S. states in 1860 and 1861, and the 2007 Ukrainian crisis. \n\nConstitutional crises may arise from conflicts between different branches of government, conflicts between central and local governments, or simply conflicts among various factions within society. In the course of government, the crisis results when one or more of the parties to a political dispute willfully chooses to violate a law of the constitution; or to flout an unwritten constitutional convention; or to dispute the correct, legal interpretation of the violated constitutional law or of the flouted political custom. This was demonstrated by the so-called XYZ Affair, which involved the bribery of French officials by a contingent of American commissioners who were sent to preserve peace between France and the United States. The incident was published in the American press and created a foreign policy crisis, which precipitated the passage of the Alien and Sedition Acts. Opposition to these acts in the form of the Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions cited that they violated the right to free speech and exhorted states to refuse their enforcement since they violated the Constitution. \n\nMoreover, if the crisis arises because the constitution is legally ambiguous, the ultimate politico-legal resolution usually establishes the legal precedent to resolve future crises of constitutional administration. In the U.S. system of government, the Constitution does not explicitly address the matter of whether or not a state can legally secede from the Union; however, after the American Civil War (1861–1865) thwarted the secession of the Southern United States, the accepted doctrine of constitutional law is that a state cannot legally leave the Union.\n\nPolitically, a constitutional crisis can lead to administrative paralysis and eventual collapse of the government, the loss of political legitimacy, or to civil war. A constitutional crisis is distinct from a rebellion, which occurs when political factions \"outside\" a government challenge the government's sovereignty, as in a \"coup d'état\" or a revolution led by the military or by civilians.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis covers the Kingdom of Scotland, which became part of the Kingdom of Great Britain after 1707. For constitutional crises since then, see United Kingdom below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11854442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11854442", "title": "Convention Muslim League", "text": "Convention Muslim League\n\nThe Convention Muslim League (CML) was a faction of the Pakistan Muslim League that split-off in 1962, in support of the military regime of the President of Pakistan, General Ayub Khan. The opposition party was known as the Council Muslim League. Convention Muslim League contested presidential election of Pakistan held in 1965. CML's electoral symbol was Rose. \n\n"}
{"id": "177487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177487", "title": "Crime statistics", "text": "Crime statistics\n\nThere are several methods for measuring the prevalence of crime. Public surveys are sometimes conducted to estimate the amount of crime not reported to police. Such surveys are usually more reliable for assessing trends. However, they also have their limitations and generally don't procure statistics useful for local crime prevention, often ignore offenses against children and do not count offenders brought before the criminal justice system.\n\nLaw enforcement agencies in some countries offer compilations of statistics for various types of crime.\n\nTwo major methods for collecting crime data are law enforcement reports, which only reflect crimes that are reported, recorded, and not subsequently canceled; and victim study (victimization statistical surveys), which rely on individual memory and honesty. For less frequent crimes such as intentional homicide and armed robbery, reported incidences are generally more reliable, but suffer from under-recording; for example, no criming in the United Kingdom sees over one third of reported violent crimes being not recorded by the police. Because laws and practices vary between jurisdictions, comparing crime statistics between and even within countries can be difficult: typically only violent deaths (homicide or manslaughter) can reliably be compared, due to consistent and high reporting and relative clear definition.\n\nThe U.S. has two major data collection programs, the Uniform Crime Reports from the FBI and the National Crime Victimization Survey from the Bureau of Justice Statistics. However, the U.S. has no comprehensive infrastructure to monitor crime trends and report the information to related parties such as law enforcement.\n\nResearch using a series of victim surveys in 18 countries of the European Union, funded by the European Commission, has reported (2005) that the level of crime in Europe has fallen back to the levels of 1990, and notes that levels of common crime have shown declining trends in the U.S., Canada, Australia and other industrialized countries as well. The European researchers say a general consensus identifies demographic change as the leading cause for this international trend. Although homicide and robbery rates rose in the U.S. in the 1980s, by the end of the century they had declined by 40%.\n\nHowever, the European research suggests that \"increased use of crime prevention measures may indeed be the common factor behind the near universal decrease in overall levels of crime in the Western world\", since decreases have been most pronounced in property crime and less so, if at all, in contact crimes.\n\nRelatively few standards exist and none that permit international comparability beyond a very limited range of offences. However, many jurisdictions accept the following:\nOffending that is a breach of the law but for which no punishment exists is often not counted. For example: Suicide, which is technically illegal in most countries, may not be counted as a crime, although attempted suicide and assisting suicide are.\n\nAlso traffic offending and other minor offending that might be dealt with by using fines, rather than imprisonment, is often not counted as \"crime\". However separate statistics may be kept for this sort of offending.\n\nBecause of the difficulties in quantifying how much crime actually occurs, researchers generally take two approaches to gathering statistics about crime.\n\nHowever, as officers can only record crime that comes to their attention and might not record a matter as a crime if the matter is considered minor and is not perceived as a crime by the officer concerned.\n\nFor example, when faced with a domestic violence dispute between a couple, a law enforcement officer may decide it is far less trouble to arrest the male party to the dispute, because the female may have children to care for, despite both parties being equally culpable for the dispute. This sort of pragmatic decisionmaking asked if they are victims of crime, without needing to provide any supporting evidence. In these surveys it is the participant's perception, or opinion, that a crime occurred, or even their understanding about what constitutes a crime that is being measured.\n\nAs a consequence differing methodologies may make comparisons with other surveys difficult.\n\nOne way in which, while other types of crime are under reported. These surveys also give insights as to why crime is reported, or not. The surveys show that the need to make an insurance claim, seek medical assistance, and the seriousness of an offence tend to increase the level of reporting, while the inconvenience of reporting, the involvement of intimate partners and the nature of the offending tend to decrease reporting.\n\nThis allows degrees of confidence to be assigned to various crime statistics. For example: Motor vehicle thefts are generally well reported because the victim may need to make the report for an insurance claim, while domestic violence, domestic child abuse and sexual offences are frequently significantly under-reported because of the intimate relationships involved, embarrassment and other factors that make it difficult for the victim to make a report.\n\nAttempts to use victimisation surveys from different countries for international comparison had failed in the past. A standardised survey project called \"the International Crime Victims Survey\" Results from this project have been briefly discussed earlier in this article.\n\nWhile most jurisdictions could probably agree about what constitutes a murder, what constitutes a homicide may be more problematic, while a crime against the person could vary widely. Legislation differences often means the ingredients of offences vary between jurisdictions.\n\nThe International Crime victims Survey has been done in over 70 countries to date and has become the 'de facto' standard for defining common crimes. Complete list of countries participating and the 11 defined crimes can be found at the project web site.\n\nMore complex measures involve measuring the numbers of discrete victims and offenders as well as repeat victimisation rates and recidivism. Repeat victimisation involves measuring how often the same victim is subjected to a repeat occurrence of an offence, often by the same offender. Repetition rate measures are often used to assess the effectiveness of interventions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2822449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2822449", "title": "David P. Schmitt", "text": "David P. Schmitt\n\nDavid P. Schmitt is a personality psychologist who founded the International Sexuality Description Project (ISDP). The ISDP is the largest-ever cross-cultural research study on sex and personality. Over 100 psychologists simultaneously administered an anonymous self-report survey to 17,837 individuals representing 56 different nations, 6 continents, 13 islands, and 30 languages. Direct assessments of people's personality traits and sexual behaviors have led to innovative tests of evolutionary psychology and social role theory. A second wave of the ISDP is currently underway and includes measures of subjective well-being, social dominance, sexual aggression, rape attitudes, HIV risk, and psychopathy.\n\nDavid Schmitt also blogs in Psychology Today \n\n\n"}
{"id": "21490614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21490614", "title": "Demokrazia Hiru Milioi", "text": "Demokrazia Hiru Milioi\n\nDemokrazia Hiru Milioi (Spanish: \"Democracia Tres Millones\"; D3M; also called Demokrazia 3,000,000) was an electoral platform which was formed to participate in the Basque Parliament elections in 2009. It was declared illegal on February 8, 2009, as the Supreme Court of Spain considered that it was linked with the separatist organization ETA.\n"}
{"id": "33443902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33443902", "title": "Donostia-San Sebastián International Peace Conference", "text": "Donostia-San Sebastián International Peace Conference\n\nThe International Conference to Promote the Resolution of the Conflict in the Basque Country — more widely known as the Donostia-San Sebastián International Peace Conference — was a conference aimed at promoting a resolution to the Basque conflict, which took place in Donostia-San Sebastián (Basque Country) on October 17, 2011, at Aiete Palace. It was organized by the Basque citizens' group Lokarri, and included leaders of Basque parties, as well as six international personalities known for their work in the field of politics and pacification: Kofi Annan (former UN Secretary-General), Bertie Ahern (former Taoiseach of Ireland), Gro Harlem Brundtland (international leader in sustainable development and public health, former Prime Minister of Norway), Pierre Joxe (former Interior Minister of France), Gerry Adams (president of Sinn Féin, member of the Irish Parliament) and Jonathan Powell (British diplomat who served as the first Downing Street Chief of Staff). Tony Blair — former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom — could not be present due to commitments in the Middle East, but he supported the final declaration. The former US President Jimmy Carter (2002 Nobel Peace Prize) and the former US senator George J. Mitchell (former United States Special Envoy for Middle East Peace) also backed this declaration.\n\nThe conference resulted in a five-point statement that included a plea for ETA to renounce any armed activities and to demand instead negotiations with the Spanish and French authorities to end the conflict. It was seen as a possible prelude to the end of ETA's violent campaign for an independent Basque homeland, and three days later — on October 20 — ETA announced \"definitive cessation of its armed activity\".\n\nThe Final declaration has five points, and it's written as follows:\n\nThree days after the conference — on October 20 — ETA announced \"definitive cessation of its armed activity\". They said they were ending their 43-year armed campaign for independence and called on Spain and France to open talks. The Spanish government insisted that it will not negotiate on demands for Basque self-determination until ETA disbands. Spanish prime minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero described ETA's announcement as \"a victory for democracy, law and reason\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15447022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15447022", "title": "Energy policy of Scotland", "text": "Energy policy of Scotland\n\nEnergy policy in Scotland is a matter that has been specifically reserved to the UK parliament under the terms of the Scotland Act 1998 that created the devolved Scottish Parliament. However, since planning is a matter that has been devolved, the Scottish government has the ability to shape the direction of energy generation in Scotland by approving or refusing new projects.\n\nIn 2004, the Enterprise Committee of the Scottish Parliament called for the development of a 'fully fledged' Scottish energy policy.\n\nThe SNP Government that took power in May 2007 specifically included the word 'energy' in a portfolio title when the junior ministerial position of Minister for Enterprise, Energy and Tourism was created to replace the position of 'Minister for Enterprise and Lifelong Learning'.\n\nThe closure of the Longannet power station in March 2016 ended coal-fired power production in Scotland.\n\nThe production of renewable energy in Scotland is an issue that has come to the fore in technical, economic, and political terms during the opening years of the 21st century. The natural resource base for renewable energy is extraordinary by European, and even global standards, with the most important potential sources being wind, wave, and tide.\n\nAt the end of 2011, there was 4,796 megawatts (MW) of installed renewables electricity capacity in Scotland, an increase of 9.5 per cent (416 MW) on the end of 2010. Renewable electricity generation in 2011 was a record high at 13,750 GWh - an increase of 44.5 per cent on 2010. Around 35 per cent of Scotland’s electricity came from renewables in 2011, exceeding the Scottish Government’s target of 31 per cent. Scotland contributed almost 40 per cent of the UK’s renewables output in 2011.\n\nContinuing improvements in engineering and economics are enabling more of the renewable resources to be utilised. Fears regarding \"peak oil\" and climate change have driven the subject high up the political agenda and are also encouraging the use of various biofuels. Although the finances of many projects remain either speculative or dependent on market incentives, it is probable that there has been a significant, and in all likelihood long-term change, in the underpinning economics.\n\nIn addition to planned increases in both large-scale generating capacity and microsystems using renewable sources, various related schemes to reduce carbon emissions are being researched. Although there is significant support from the public, private and community-led sectors, concerns about the effect of the technologies on the natural environment have been expressed. There is also an emerging political debate about the relationship between the siting, and the ownership and control of these widely distributed resources.\n\nA continuing political debate surrounds the uptake and the incentivisation schemes available for renewable technologies in Scotland. There are tensions over the disparity in costs between renewable installations in Scotland compared to those in England with suggestion that this should be recognised by the UK government.\n\nWhen the UK Government announced an energy review in early 2006, the Scottish National Party (SNP) and others made clear their view that Scotland did not need new nuclear power stations. By January 2008, when the UK Government gave the go-ahead for a new generation of nuclear power stations to be built across the UK, the SNP formed the Scottish Government and First Minister Alex Salmond made clear there was \"no chance\" of more nuclear power stations being built in Scotland. The Government's stance was backed by the Scottish Parliament which voted 63-58 to support the Scottish Government's policy of opposing new nuclear power stations.\n\nA proposed 400 kV upgrade to the existing 132 kV transmission network, seen as key to future expansion was held up in planning for three years. There was vocal opposition from some sectors and strong support from other sectors. Objections were principally on the basis of the visual impact of the pylons running through the edge of the Cairngorms National Park. 53km of the 132kV line inside the park was taken down and not replaced. The 220 km circuit will run from Beauly, west of Inverness to Denny, west of Falkirk near Edinburgh.\n\nIn 2008, the first major independent study associated with the Scottish Government’s renewable energy targets concluded that the upgrade of the Beauly-Denny power line will be a key to future development.\n\nIn January 2010, the Scottish Government approved the upgrade to the Beauly to Denny transmission line, which was energized by Christmas 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50152987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50152987", "title": "Free Costa Rica Movement", "text": "Free Costa Rica Movement\n\nThe Free Costa Rica Movement (\"Movimiento Costa Rica Libre\") was a far-right anti-Communist and ultra-Conservative political association in Costa Rica. The group was founded in 1961 as Nationalist Movement (\"Movimiento Nacionalista\"). Some of its more noticeable actions were during neighboring Nicaragua’s Sandinista government in the 80s, as the group was strongly anti-Sandinista and considered Sandinista Nicaragua a treat to Costa Rica. The group attacked Nicaragua’s embassy in 1981. Besides the FSLN, the group was also enemy of several Costa Rican left-wing parties like United People and several farmers and workers organizations. It was also a member of the World Anti-Communist League.\n"}
{"id": "2569414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2569414", "title": "Gabion", "text": "Gabion\n\nA gabion (from Italian \"gabbione\" meaning \"big cage\"; from Italian \"gabbia\" and Latin \"cavea\" meaning \"cage\") is a cage, cylinder, or box filled with rocks, concrete, or sometimes sand and soil for use in civil engineering, road building, military applications and landscaping.\n\nFor erosion control, caged riprap is used. For dams or in foundation construction, cylindrical metal structures are used. In a military context, earth- or sand-filled gabions are used to protect sappers, infantry, and artillerymen from enemy fire.\n\nLeonardo da Vinci designed a type of gabion called a \"Corbeille Leonard\" (\"Leonard[o] basket\") for the foundations of the San Marco Castle in Milan.\nThe most common civil engineering use of gabions was refined and patented by Gaetano Maccaferri in the late 19th century in Sacerno, Emilia Romagna and used to stabilize shorelines, stream banks or slopes against erosion. Other uses include retaining walls, noise barriers, temporary flood walls, silt filtration from runoff, for small or temporary/permanent dams, river training, or channel lining. They may be used to direct the force of a flow of flood water around a vulnerable structure.\n\nGabions are also used as fish screens on small streams. Gabion stepped weirs are commonly used for river training and flood control; the stepped design enhances the rate of energy dissipation in the channel, and it is particularly well suited to the construction of gabion stepped weirs.\n\nA gabion wall is a retaining wall made of stacked stone-filled gabions tied together with wire. Gabion walls are usually \"battered\" (angled back towards the slope), or stepped back with the slope, rather than stacked vertically.\n\nThe life expectancy of gabions depends on the lifespan of the wire, not on the contents of the basket. The structure will fail when the wire fails. Galvanized steel wire is most common, but PVC-coated and stainless steel wire are also used. PVC-coated galvanized gabions have been estimated to survive for 60 years. Some gabion manufacturers guarantee a structural consistency of 50 years.\n\nIn the United States, gabion use within streams first began with projects completed from 1957 to 1965 on North River, Virginia and Zealand River, New Hampshire. More than 150 grade-control structures, bank revetments and channel deflectors were constructed on the two U.S. Forest Service sites. Eventually, a large portion of the in-stream structures failed due to undermining and lack of structural integrity of the baskets. In particular, corrosion and abrasion of wires by bedload movement compromised the structures, which then sagged and collapsed into the channels. Other gabions were toppled into channels as trees grew and enlarged on top of gabion revetments, leveraging them toward the river channels.\n\nGabions have also been used in building, as in the Dominus Winery in the Napa Valley, California, by architects Herzog & de Meuron, constructed between 1995 and 1997. The exterior is formed by modular wire mesh gabions containing locally quarried stone; this construction allows air movement through the building and creates an environment of moderate temperatures inside.\n\nThere are various special designs of gabions to meet particular functional requirements and some special terms for particular forms have come into use. For example:\n\nEarly gabions were round cages with open tops and bottoms, made from wickerwork and filled with earth for use as military fortifications. These early military gabions were most often used to protect sappers and siege artillery gunners. The wickerwork cylinders were light and could be carried relatively conveniently in the ammunition train, particularly if they were made in several diameters to fit one inside another. At the site of use in the field, they could be stood on end, staked in position, and filled with soil to form an effective wall around the gun, or rapidly construct a bulletproof parapet along a sap. During the Crimean War, local shortages of brushwood led to use of scrap hoop-iron from hay bales in its stead; this in turn led to purpose-built sheet-iron gabions. \n\nToday, gabions are often used to protect forward operating bases (FOBs) against explosive, fragmentary, indirect fires such as mortar or artillery fire. Examples of areas within a FOB that make extensive use of gabions are sleeping quarters, mess halls, or any place where there would be a large concentration of unprotected soldiers. Gabions are also used for aircraft revetments, blast walls, and similar structures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44542037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44542037", "title": "Go Nawaz Go", "text": "Go Nawaz Go\n\nGo Nawaz Go () is a political slogan in Pakistan, popularised during the Azadi March and Inqilab March protests against the former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, led by the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) and Pakistan Awami Tehrik (PAT) respectively. The movements aimed for the resignation of Sharif, over claims of governmental manipulations in the 2013 general election. Shaikh Rasheed Ahmad, the leader of Awami Muslim League (Pakistan) initially introduced the anti-government chant after Nawaz Sharif refused to step down as Prime Minister in September 2014. The slogan was later popularised by Imran Khan, the leader of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf who ran a protest movement simultaneously. This chant was also used by Tahir-ul-Qadri, the leader of Pakistan Awami Tehreek. The slogan became vastly popular, receiving circulation in a short span of time, and its use has been extended into protests, public demonstrations, while also gaining popularity in non-political situations.\n\nOver time, the chant \"Go Nawaz Go\" became hugely popular and had been used many times at different events. On some occasions, the controversial slogan was chanted where members, and ministers of the PML(N) were present which caused the members and ministers as well relatives of Nawaz Sharif and Shehbaz Sharif to hurriedly leave the area to avoid the embarrassing situation.\n\nOne of the other notable incidents where the chant caused chaos was during a graduation ceremony in University of Peshawar, when a student refused to receive the graduation certificate from the governor of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and chanted \"Go Nawaz Go\" causing a major embarrassment, while Karachi University also cancelled a ceremony in which laptops were to have been distributed amongst students, amid fears of slogan.\n\nGullu Butt also chanted \"Go Nawaz Go\" when he was sentenced to 11 years in jail but later got out by order of court.\n\nUpon Nawaz's visit to United States of America in order to attend 69th session of United Nation's General Assembly, a large number of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf protestants gathered outside the UN office and chanted \"Go Nawaz Go\".\n\nAfter Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif made some international tours to China, Germany and United Kingdom, Imran Khan said that Nawaz Sharif has misunderstood the meaning of \"Go Nawaz Go\", clarifying that, \"Go Nawaz Go\" does not mean going on international tours. Imran also announced to mark a day as \"Go Nawaz Go Day\". \n\nThe slogan has also been used by spectators during sports events and matches, such as cricket.\n\nThe Government became aware of this slogan and raised a challenged in the Lahore High Court.The Government also started a crackdown against those chanting the anti-Nawaz slogan and made numerous arrests. Pakistan Telecommunication Authority also instructed mobile phone operators to stop and curb the SMS's which included \"Go Nawaz Go\" characters.\n\nInspired by the slogan, a game named \"Go Nawaz Go\" was released on the Google Play Store featuring a bat-wielding Imran Khan chasing a Nawaz Sharif. Many songs have been written dedicating the slogan which are regularly played in rallies. One such official song of Go Nawaz Go which is sung by Axis band Pakistan break the record of most viewed song for the Go Nawaz Go Campaign.\n\nThe official website of Indian Prime Minister Modi was hacked by Pakistani hackers and put \"Go Nawaz Go\" slogan on the main page to protest while in another major website hack of Pakistan's Foreign Ministry, Nawaz Sharif was shown as Shrek and balled as \"Go Ganja Go\", \"Go Tind Go\" and \"Go Kadu Go\". The slogan also became one of the most used hashtags of the year on social media in Pakistan.\n\n\"Go Nawaz Go\" campaign on currency bills was launched as well. Minister of Finance, Ishaq Dar and State Bank of Pakistan condemned the campaign of writing the political slogan on currency notes.\n\n\"Choor imran chor \" and Ro imran Ro is the counter slogan used by PML-N supporters for Imran Khan. \"Go Zardari Go\" against former President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari as well \"Go Bilawal Go\" against the chairman of Pakistan People Party Bilawal Bhutto has also been introduced recently. Against, Shehla Raza, deputy speaker in the Sindh Assembly, \"Go Shehla Go\" was echoed in Sindh provincial assembly by Muttahida Qaumi Movement. Sheikh Rasheed Ahmad, a veteran Pakistani politician, was greeted with \"Sheeda Talli Haye Haye\" and \"Go Sheikh Go\" by Nawaz supporters while Fazal-ur-Rehman, a Pakistani conservative politician and extreme right cleric is commonly referred as \"Diesel\" (With reference to his part in diesel smuggling during Afghan War) and slogan against him is \"Go Diesel Go\".\n\n\"Go Khattak Go\" against Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Chief Minister Pervaiz Khattak is also chanted by workers of arch-rival party PMLN.\n\n\"Go Misbah Go\" chanted by Pakistani cricket fans against Pakistani ODI and Test cricket team captain Misbah-ul-Haq over his poor performance in ODI test series with Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054117", "title": "Greek People's Liberation Army", "text": "Greek People's Liberation Army\n\nThe Greek People's Liberation Army (), commonly known by its acronym ELAS (ΕΛΑΣ), and often mistakenly called the National People's Liberation Army (Εθνικός Λαϊκός Απελευθερωτικός Στρατός, \"Ethnikós Laïkós Apeleftherotikós Stratós\"), was the military arm of the left-wing National Liberation Front (EAM) during the period of the Greek Resistance until February 1945, when, following the \"Dekemvriana\" clashes and the Varkiza Agreement, it was disarmed and disbanded.\n\nAfter Nazi Germany attacked the Soviet Union with the initiation of Operation Barbarossa (June 22, 1941 — with most of Greece having fallen under Axis occupation since April and the Battle of Crete having ended on June 1 — the Greek Communist Party (KKE) called for national resistance. The KKE together with minor parties of the Left formed a political structure called National Liberation Front. They were joined by other, center-left or non-politicised Greek resistance militants.\n\nOn February 16, 1942, EAM gave permission to a communist veteran, called Athanasios (Thanasis) Klaras (later known as Aris Velouchiotis) to examine the possibilities of a victorious armed resistance movement. It was the birth of the Greek People's Liberation Army (ELAS). ELAS initiated actions against the German and Italian forces of occupation in Greece on 7 June 1942. Aris Velouchiotis with a small group of 10–15 guerrillas entered the village of Domnista in Evrytania and proclaimed in front of the surprised villagers that they had set off to \"start the war against the forces of Axis and their local collaborators\". Initially, Velouchiotis collected also the traditional local mountain living bandits, like Karalivanos, in order to create a small group of experts in guerilla fighting.\n\nOn a night in September 1942, a small group of British SOE officers parachuted into Greece near Mt. Giona. This group, led by Brigadier Eddie Myers, had been tasked to blow up one of three bridges (Gorgopotamos, Papadia or Asopos) of the country's main railway line, and to get the two main, but competing, guerrilla groups of ELAS and EDES to cooperate.\n\nAfter much deliberation, the Gorgopotamos bridge was chosen due to the difficulty of making repairs to the structure. But, for the mission to succeed, it was important to meet the guerrillas. Dimos Karalivanos, an ELAS guerrilla, was the first guerrilla the British found. At the end of October a second group of British officers were parachuted into the Greek mountains. Their leaders were Themis Marinos and Colonel Christopher Woodhouse. Their mission was to locate the guerrillas of EDES and their leader Napoleon Zervas, who were friendlier to the British Headquarters of the Middle-East than ELAS, and co-operate with them. The resulting mission was a challenge for the two guerrilla groups, EDES and ELAS. Finally, they agreed to collaborate. The British did not favour the participation of ELAS, because it was a pro-communist group, but the forces of ELAS were larger and better organised, and without their participation, the mission was likely to fail. So, in a rare and unique event, ELAS and EDES-EOEA joined forces.\n\nOn November 14, the 12 British saboteurs, the forces of ELAS (150 men) and those of EDES (60-65 men) met in the village Viniani in Evrytania and the operation started. Ten days later, the forces were at Gorgopotamos. On the night of November 25, at 23:00, the guerrillas started the attack against the Italian garrison. The Italians were startled, and after little resistance, they were defeated. After the defeat of the Italians, the saboteurs set the explosives. ELAS forces also had placed ambushes on the routes towards the bridge, to block the approach of Italian reinforcements. The explosion occurred at 03:00. Afterwards, the guerrillas' forces returned to Viniani, to celebrate the success of the mission.\n\nThe destruction of the Gorgopotamos bridge was, along with the Norwegian heavy water sabotage in Rjukan, one of the two biggest guerrilla acts in occupied Europe. The blowing up of the bridge disrupted the German transportation of ammunition via Greece to Rommel's forces for several weeks, taking place at a time where the German forces in North Africa, retreating after the defeat of El Alamein, were in absolute necessity of provisions.\n\nThe blowing up of Gorgopotamos bridge favored ELAS. Soon, lots of the inhabitants of the villages of Central Greece became members of ELAS. Furthermore, people sympathised with the ELAS guerrillas because they weren't helped by the British in contrast with EDES. When 25 guerrillas deserted from ELAS, Aris Velouchiotis went to Epirus to threaten Napoleon Zervas not to come in touch with them. Later, the 25 deserters were arrested and executed in the village of Sperhiada. The winter of 1942, ELAS groups were formed in other Greek regions, like Thessaly and Macedonia. In Central Greece, Aris Velouchiotis succeeded to form a powerful semi-conventional army which could attack German and Italian forces. Aris became a legendary figure who imposed an iron discipline in ELAS. At the same time, some members of ELAS (Periklis, Tasos Leuterias, Diamantis, Nikiforos, Thiseas, Dimos Karalivanos, and Belis) have been distinguished during the battles. Aris Velouchiotis formed a group of 30–35 men, called \"Mavroskoufides\" (the \"black caps\"), who were his personal guards. During the winter of 1942–1943, new units of ELAS were composed in many regions of Greece. Some areas in the mountains of Central Greece passed from the control of Axis forces to that of ELAS.\n\nThe leadership of ELAS followed a triadic form, from its top down to platoon level: the captain (\"kapetánios\"), elected by the men and the overall leader of the unit, the military specialist (\"stratiotikós\"), usually a regular Army officer, responsible for tactical planning and training, and the political leader (\"politikós\"), usually a KKE member, as EAM's representative. At its top, the General Headquarters of ELAS, these positions were filled by Aris Velouchiotis, Stefanos Sarafis and Andreas Tzimas (\"nom-de-guerre\": Vasilis Samariniotis).\n\nTwo events of great importance took place in this period. KKE, after passing great difficulties, succeeded in reorganizing its groups destroyed by Metaxas. Lots of members were recruited and with the help of ELAS, which became the largest partisan army in Greece, EAM became the largest mass political organization in Greek history, claiming over 1.5 million members, enlisted in organizations that covered every neighborhood in every village. The second great event was the foundation of the United Panhellenic Organization of Youth (EPON) (). In 1943, a small naval auxiliary navy, the Greek People's Liberation Navy (ELAN) was also founded.\n\nTwo years after its foundation, ELAS' military strength had grown from the small group of fighters in Domnitsa to a force of some 50,000 partisans (estimates of the British government) or even as many as 85,000, according to EAM sources; EAM itself, and its associated organizations, had grown to a membership of anywhere from 500,000–750,000 (according to Anthony Eden) up to two million, in a country of 7.5 million inhabitants. ELAS was thus one of the largest resistance groups formed in Europe, similar to the French Maquis, the Italian Resistance and the Yugoslavian Partisans, but smaller than the Polish resistance.\n\nOn 10 March 1944 the EAM-ELAS, now in control of most of the country, established the \"Political Committee of National Liberation\" (PEEA), widely known as the \"Mountain Government\" (), in effect a third Greek government to rival the collaboration one in Athens and the government-in-exile in Cairo. Its aims, according to its founding Act, were, \"to intensify the struggle against the conquerors (...) for full national liberation, for the consolidation of the independence and integrity of our country (...) and for the annihilation of domestic fascism and armed traitor formations.\"\n\nPEEA was elected in liberated territories and in occupied ones by 2,000,000 Greek citizens. It was historically the first time that women could vote.\nPEEA ministers covered a wide political spectrum from left to center.\n\nELAS became the strongest of all resistance armed organizations, controlling by 1944 military three-fifths of the country (mainly the mountains) having in its ranks more than 800 military officers of the former National Army. ELAS engaged in battles against other resistance groups, besides the para-military forces of the collaborationist government. ELAS initially began to attack the National Republican Greek League (EDES) on accusations of collaboration with the Germans. ELAS attacked also the Panhellenic Liberation Organization (PAO), another resistance organization, concentrated in Northern Greece, in the area of Macedonia with accusations of collaboration. The armed power of the two major organizations was not comparable as EDES had approx. 12,000 guerrillas, while ELAS' power was much stronger. Small battles were taking place in Epirus where EDES had its main force. This situation led to triangular battles among ELAS, EDES and the Germans. Given the support of the British and the Greek Cairo Government for EDES, these conflicts precipitated a civil war. In October 1943 ELAS launched major attacks against EDES and the guerrilla group of Tsaous Anton in Northern Greece, precipitating a civil war across many parts of Greece which continued until February 1944, when the British agents in Greece negotiated a ceasefire (the Plaka agreement); ELAS broke the agreement by attacking the 5/42 Evzone Regiment, murdering the EKKA resistance group leader, Dimitrios Psarros, in as yet unclear and hotly debated circumstances and executing all the captives.\n1942\n1943\n1944\n\nThis list contains the names of the most well-known ELAS leaders or simple members, with their \"nom de guerre\" in parentheses:\n\n\nIn autumn 1944, after the liberation, ELAS was the dominant force in the country and had captured all the major Greek cities, except Athens (after an agreement in Caserta with the Greek government in exile).\n\nAfter the \"Dekemvriana\" events, ELAS was disarmed, though later some of its fighters (mostly KKE members) joined the Democratic Army during the civil war.\n\nThe hymn of ELAS was written in March 1944 by Sofia Mavroeidi-Papadaki and music by Nikos Tsakonas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4317552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4317552", "title": "Human rights in Thailand", "text": "Human rights in Thailand\n\nThailand was among the first nations to sign the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 and seemed committed to safeguarding Human Rights in Thailand. In practice, the reality has been that the powerful can abuse the human rights of their subjects with impunity. From 1977 to 1988, Amnesty International reported that there \"...were 1,436 alleged cases of arbitrary detention, 58 forced disappearances, 148 torture [sic] and 345 extrajudicial killings in Thailand...The authorities investigated and whitewashed each case.\" Amnesty International's \"Amnesty International Report 2017/18; The State of the World's Human Rights\" demonstrates that not much has changed in the interim.<ref name=\"AI-2017/18\"></ref>\n\nThe 1997 constitution was abrogated in September 2006 following the military coup. The military regime imposed an interim constitution which was in effect until the 2007 version was approved a year later by referendum. The 2007 constitution was partially abrogated by the military regime that came to power in May 2014 and replaced by an interim constitution in effect until the new constitution was approved in 2016.\n\nMany new rights were introduced in the 1997 constitution. These included the right to free education, the rights of traditional communities, and the right to peacefully protest coups and other extra-constitutional means of acquiring power, the rights of children, the elderly, rights of the handicapped, and equality of the genders. Freedom of information, the right to public health and education, and consumer rights were also recognized. A total of 40 rights, compared to only nine rights in the constitution of 1932, were recognized in the 1997 constitution.\n\nThe current (2016) constitution, drafted by a body appointed by the military junta (NCPO), states in section 4: \"The human dignity, rights, liberty and equality of the people shall be protected\". This is unchanged from the 2007 constitution. Sections 26 to 63 set out an extensive range of specific rights in such areas as criminal justice, education, non-discrimination, religion, and freedom of expression. \n\nThe 2007 constitution reinstated much of the extensive catalogue of rights explicitly recognized in the People's Constitution of 1997. That constitution outlined the right to freedom of speech, freedom of press, peaceful assembly, association, religion, and movement within the country and abroad.\n\nThe U.S. Department of State has registered concerns in several areas.\n\nHuman trafficking is a major issue in Thailand. This includes misleading and kidnapping men from Cambodia by traffickers and selling them into illegal fishing boats that trawl the Gulf of Thailand and the South China Sea. These men are promised better paid jobs but instead forced to work as sea slaves as much as 3 years. Numerous international news organizations including The Guardian, AP, and The New York Times have extensively covered the topic; The Associated Press, in particular, has won prominent awards for their coverage (although not without controversy for overstating their role in combating trafficking). \nChildren trafficking is also another major issue in Thailand forcing kidnapped children as young as four to use as sex slaves in major cities like Bangkok and Phuket. Such activities are especially rife in rural areas of Thailand.\nInstances of forced labor in the fish and shrimp industry as well as child labour in the pornography industry are still observed in Thailand and have been reported in the 2013 U.S. Department of Labor's report on the worst forms of child labor and in the 2014 \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\".\n\nIn the wake of the 2006 and 2014 \"coup d'états\", the right to free speech, association, and freedom of movement were seriously eroded. The military governments implemented a ban on political meetings and prohibited media criticism. Political activities of all types were banned.\n\nThe Southeast Asian Press Alliance (SEAPA) noted that Thailand's media environment—prior to the coup considered one of the freest and most vibrant in Asia—had quickly deteriorated following the military ousting of Thaksin Shinawatra. It noted the closure of around 300 community radio stations in Thai provinces, the intermittent blocking of cable news channels (particularly whenever news on Thaksin and criticism of the coup came up), and the suspension of some Thai websites devoted to discussing the implications of military intervention to Thai democracy. SEAPA also noted that while there seemed to be no crackdown on journalists, and while foreign and local reporters seemed free to roam, interview, and report on the coup as they saw fit, self-censorship was a certain issue in Thai newsrooms.\n\nBritish journalist, Suzanne Buchanan, has reported on the recent string of tourist deaths and sexual assaults in Ko Tao. Though she has not been to Thailand in over two years, she is wanted by police who say she is peddling fake news.\n\nProblems have been reported in the southern provinces related to the South Thailand insurgency. Some 180 persons are reported to have died there while in custody in 2004. In a particularly high-profile case, Muslim human rights lawyer Somchai Neelaphaijit was reportedly harassed, threatened, and finally forcibly disappeared in March 2004 following his allegations of torture by state security forces. In 2006, Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra stated that he believed that Somchai was dead and that state security forces appeared to be responsible. Five policemen were eventually charged in Somchai's death, though the trial only resulted in one conviction that was overturned on appeal in March 2011. The verdict was denounced by the Asian Human Rights Commission, and Somchai's wife Angkhana declared her intention to continue to appeal the case to the Thai Supreme Court.\n\nThe government's antidrug war in 2003 resulted in more than 2,500 extrajudicial killings of suspected drug traffickers. Prison conditions and some provincial immigration detention facilities are characterized as poor. In 2004 more than 1,600 persons died in prison or police custody, 131 as a result of police actions.\n\n\"The Nation\" reported on 27 November 2007:\n\"Of 2,500 deaths in the government's war on drugs in 2003, a fact-finding panel has found that more than half was not involved in drug at all. At a brainstorming session, a representative from the Office of Narcotics Control Board (ONCB) Tuesday disclosed that as many as 1,400 people were killed and labelled as drug suspects despite the fact that they had no link to drugs...Senior public prosecutor Kunlapon Ponlawan said it was not difficult to investigate extra-judicial killings carried out by police officers as the trigger-pullers usually confessed.\"\nThe 24 January 2008 edition of \"The Economist\" reported:\n\"...a panel set up last year by the outgoing junta recently concluded the opposite: over half of those killed in 2003 had no links to the drugs trade. The panel blamed the violence on a government 'shoot-to-kill' policy based on flawed blacklists. But far from leading to the prosecutions of those involved, its findings have been buried. The outgoing interim prime minister, Surayud Chulanont, took office vowing to right Mr Thaksin's wrongs. Yet this week he said there was insufficient evidence to take legal action over the killings. It is easy to see why the tide has turned. Sunai Phasuk, a researcher for Human Rights Watch, a lobbying group, says that the panel's original report named the politicians who egged on the gunmen. But after the PPP won last month's elections, those names were omitted.\"\nThe \"New York Times\" reported on 8 April 2003:\n\"Since the death of 9-year-old Chakraphan, there have been frequent reports in the Thai press of summary executions and their innocent victims. There was the 16-month-old girl who was shot dead along with her mother, Raiwan Khwanthongyen. There was the pregnant woman, Daranee Tasanawadee, who was killed in front of her two young sons. There was the 8-year-old boy, Jirasak Unthong, who was the only witness to the killing of his parents as they headed home from a temple fair. There was Suwit Baison, 23, a cameraman for a local television station, who fell to his knees in tears in front of Mr. Thaksin and begged for an investigation into the killing of his parents. His stepfather had once been arrested for smoking marijuana, Mr. Suwit said. When the police offered to drop the charge if he would admit to using methamphetamines, he opted instead to pay the $100 fine for marijuana use. Both parents were shot dead as they returned home from the police station on a motorbike. Mr. Suwit said 10 other people in his neighborhood had also been killed after surrendering to the police.\"\nThe Constitution of Thailand prohibits acts of torture, but the Thai legal system has no definition of torture and torture is not recognized as an offence by Thailand's legal system.\n\nIn a report entitled, \"\"Make Him Speak by Tomorrow\": Torture and other Ill-Treatment in Thailand\" that was to have been formally released in Bangkok on 28 September 2016, Amnesty International accused the Thai police and military of 74 incidents of brutality. An Amnesty International press conference to unveil the report was halted by Thai authorities who cited Thai labour laws prohibiting visiting foreigners from working in Thailand. The three foreign speakers were Rafendi Djamin, Amnesty International Director for Southeast Asia and the Pacific, Yubal Ginbar, a lawyer working for the rights group, and Laurent Meillan, acting Southeast Asia representative for the United Nations High Commission on Human Rights. The Thai government denied the torture allegations. The government spokesman, General Sansern Kaewkamnerd, emphasized that, \"Our investigations into such allegations have shown no indication of torture, I have seen no indication of torture and the Thai people have seen no indication of torture...\" Jeremy Laurence, a representative of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNOHCHR) had been scheduled to speak at the press conference. \"This incident is another striking illustration of a new pattern of harassment of human rights defenders documenting torture in Thailand,\" he said.\n\nThailand has been a signatory to the United Nations Convention against Torture since 2 October 2007. Section 28 of the Thai 2016 constitution states, \"A torture, [sic] brutal act or punishment by cruel or inhumane means shall be prohibited.\"\n\nBurmese refugees in Thailand can stay in one of the refugee camps along the border with Burma, which protect them from arrest and summary removal to Burma but they lack freedom to move or work. Or, they can live and work outside the camps, but typically without recognized legal status of any kind, leaving them at risk of arrest and deportation. From 2005 to 2011, more than 76,000 Burmese refugees were resettled from the border camps to third countries, though the total number of camp residents has remained at about 140,000.\nCamp refugees who venture out of the camps are regarded by the Thai government as illegal aliens and are subject to arrest. Thai police or paramilitaries regularly apprehend camp residents and either return them to camp if the refugees pay sufficient bribes, or send them to one of Thailand’s Immigration Detention Centers and then deport them to Burma. Refugees in the camps find themselves subject to abuse and exploitation at the hands of other refugees. Refugees working as camp security as well as camp leaders and camp residents with hidden connections to ethnic armed groups inside Burma all wield power in the camps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25712966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25712966", "title": "INTAF", "text": "INTAF\n\nThe Ministry of Internal Affairs, commonly referred to as INTAF (or Intaf), was a cabinet ministry of the Rhodesian government. One of Rhodesia's most important governmental departments, it was responsible for the welfare and development of the black African rural population. It played a significant role maintaining control of rural African villages during the Rhodesian Bush War.\n\nEstablished by the British South Africa Company in 1894 as the Native Affairs Department, it was reconstituted in 1962 as the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It established administrative districts throughout Rhodesia. Each district was led by a white uniformed District Commissioner, who was assisted by a multiracial staff and security forces. As the Rhodesian Bush War began in the early 1970s, INTAF significantly expanded its security operations. It established a paramilitary force, the Guard Force, which patrolled the rural areas. It also began intelligence-gathering and maintained the protected villages program. Upon Zimbabwe's internationally recognised independence in 1980, INTAF was disestablished and was succeeded by the Zimbabwean Ministry of Home Affairs.\n\nINTAF was led by the Minister of Internal Affairs, who was appointed by Prime Minister of Rhodesia Ian Smith. William Harper was the first Minister of Internal Affairs, and Rollo Hayman was the last.\n\nIn 1894 the British South Africa Company established the Native Affairs Department to be responsible for the welfare of black Africans living on tribal trust lands in the colony of Southern Rhodesia. The Head of the Department was the Administrator in Council; beneath him was the Secretary for Native Affairs. Under the Secretary were the two Chief Native Commissioners of Matabeleland and Mashonaland. Under the Chief Native Commissioners were Native Commissioners, who were responsible for the administration of their tribal districts and sub-districts. They were assisted by Assistant Native Commissioners.\n\nIn 1962, the Native Affairs Department was abolished by the Southern Rhodesian government. Most of its duties were designated to the newly established Ministry of Internal Affairs. The exceptions were agricultural responsibilities, which were designated to the Ministry of Agriculture, the administration of Native Purchase Areas, which was taken over by the Ministry of Mines and Lands, and local judicial functions, which were taken over by the Ministry of Justice. Following the ranks of the Colonial Service, the ministry's Native Commissioners were renamed District Commissioners. In addition, the areas formerly known as Native Reserves and Special Native Areas were reclassified as Tribal Trust Land.\n\nWilliam Harper was the first Minister of Internal Affairs beginning in 1964. In October of that year, he oversaw the \"indaba\" (conference) of chiefs and headmen at Domboshawa in October 1964, at the end of which the tribal leaders unanimously announced their support for Southern Rhodesia's independence, which was unilaterally declared on 11 November 1965. Harper, a staunch conservative seen as a rival to Rhodesian Prime Minister Ian Smith, resigned from political office on 11 July 1968.\n\nHarper was replaced as Minister of Internal Affairs by Lance Smith, another member of Ian Smith's ruling Rhodesian Front party. In 1970, he oversaw the implementation of the Land Tenure Act, which divided Rhodesia's land into equal halves for the black and white populations. The law was controversial as Rhodesia's white population of around 200,000 was dwarfed by the black population of over four million. Smith also introduced plans for black Rhodesians to be required to carry identity cards when working outside of designated areas. These plans were defeated at the Rhodesian Front Congress in October 1971. After the May 1972 Pearce Commission verdict against the provisional independence proposal, Smith advised black Rhodesians in June 1972 that they would have to rely on themselves to improve their position, and that external assistance would not be available. His \"provincialisation\" plans, announced on 13 July 1972, were intended to shift control of tribal areas from the white government to African chiefs, thus trending towards separate development for blacks and whites. He also established the Tribal Trust Land Development Corporation. Smith stepped down as INTAF minister in 1974.\n\nUpon the dissolution of Rhodesia and the independence of Zimbabwe in 1980 through the Lancaster House Agreement, INTAF was dissolved and replaced with the Zimbabwean Ministry of Home Affairs.\n\nINTAF was headed by the Minister of Internal Affairs, who was assisted by the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs.\n\nDistrict Commissioners, Assistant District Commissioners and District Assistants were expected to be qualified in Rhodesian law, the customary law of the tribe they dealt with, and the tribal language (i.e. Shona or Sindebele). As the Bush War placed pressure on Intaf, new District Assistants were recruited to serve for the duration of the war - these were called District Security Assistants. The security force of Intaf was known as the Guard Force. This was the descendant of the Matabele Native Police raised in 1894.\n\nIn 1975, with the security situation increasingly volatile, a training depot was set up at Chikurubi to ensure all new District Assistants and all members of the Guard Force had full military training. Training instructors were recruited from the Rhodesian Light Infantry. Members of the Guard Force were mainly black volunteers, but also included white conscripts. The mainstay of National Servicmen were regular officers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The Administration cadet national servicemen were Cadet 1 and 2, District Officers and Assistant District Commissioners. Agricultural Officers and African Development Fund men were also National Servicemen trained at Chikurubi. Their training included drill, weapons, map reading, African Custmons and African Languages.\n\nAs well as providing security at villages, Guard Force personnel patrolled the surrounding area. According to the local situation and resources, this was done on foot, on bicycles, in motor vehicles, or on horseback. The utility of INTAF horse-mounted units led to the formation of Grey's Scouts, an army horse-mounted unit, in 1975.\n\nAs the war progressed, Intaf formed an elite military branch called the Administrative Reinforcement Units (ARU); these consisted of eight troops (one for each province). The ARU were reinforced with volunteers seconded from the Rhodesian African Rifles, Rhodesian Defence Regiment, and Selous Scouts.\n\nReservists called up for service with Intaf were generally allotted to units known as \"echelons\". There was one INTAF echelon for each province.\n\nIntaf maintained light aircraft for transport and reconnaissance, of which one was shot down during the Bush War.\n\nMembers of INTAF initially wore a khaki uniform formerly worn by the Rhodesian Army with a red beret or a slouch hat with red puggaree, but later wore camouflage.\n\nInternal Affairs personnel played a prominent role in the war. They served at Joint Operational Centres and were involved in setting up the protected villages program. The paramilitary \"Guard Force\" later became responsible for security of the protected villages INTAF controlled this force.\n\nINTAF's expanded duties during the Rhodesian Bush War corresponded with a great increase in its budget. From the 1971–72 and 1977-78 budgets, the Rhodesian government's allocations to INTAF grew by 305%.\n\n"}
{"id": "43670331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43670331", "title": "International Association for the Protection of Civilian Arms Rights", "text": "International Association for the Protection of Civilian Arms Rights\n\nInternational Association for the Protection of Civilian Arms Rights (IAPCAR) is an association of gun rights organizations, with over 29 member organizations.\n\nThe International Association for the Protection of Civilian Arms Rights has 29 groups from 21 countries on 6 continents representing tens of millions of firearm owners. \n\nIAPCAR has recently mounted a strong campaign in opposition to the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty on their member's behalf along with the National Rifle Association, the National Shooting Sports Foundation, and The Heritage Foundation. One of the co-founders of IAPCAR, Julianne Vernsel, submitted testimony to the Arms Trade Treaty conference objecting to the exclusion of civilian's arms rights from the treaty. They also strongly objected to the lack of acknowledgement or protection of civilian arms rights or recognizing the right to self-defense in its enforceable language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11792977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11792977", "title": "International Day of the African Child", "text": "International Day of the African Child\n\nThe Day of the African Child has been celebrated on June 16 every year since 1991,when it was first initiated by the OAU Organisation of African Unity. It honors those who participated in the Soweto Uprising in 1976 on that day. It also raises awareness of the continuing need for improvement of the education provided to African children.\n\nIn Soweto, South Africa, on June 16, 1976, about ten thousand black school children marched in a column more than half a mile long, protesting the poor quality of their education and demanding their right to be taught in their own language. Hundreds of young students were shot, the most famous of which being Hector Pieterson (see image). More than a hundred people were killed in the protests of the following two weeks, and more than a thousand were injured.\n\nOn June 16 every year, governments, NGOs, international organisations and other stakeholders gather to discuss the challenges and opportunities facing the full realization of the rights of children Africa. For 2014, the theme chosen returns to the roots of the movement: \"A child-friendly, quality, free, and compulsory education for all children in Africa\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1301261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1301261", "title": "Ken Mehlman", "text": "Ken Mehlman\n\nKenneth Brian Mehlman (born August 21, 1966) is an American social entrepreneur and businessman. He serves as a member and global head of public affairs at global investment firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, and oversees the firm's responsible investment efforts, leading the firm's Environmental Social Governance programs. Prior to joining KKR, Mehlman spent a year as an attorney and partner at law firm Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld.\n\nMehlman held several national posts in the Republican Party and the George W. Bush Administration. In 2000 he was appointed director of the White House Office of Political Affairs. Mehlman managed Bush's 2004 re-election campaign, and was 62nd Chairman of the Republican National Committee from 2005–07. In 2007, Bush appointed Mehlman to a five-year term on the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.\n\nIn January 2017 Mehlman announced that he would act as chairman of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative Policy Advisory Board.\n\nIn 2010, Mehlman came out as gay in an interview with journalist Marc Ambinder, making him one of the few prominent openly gay figures in the Republican Party. After coming out, Mehlman advocated for the recognition of same-sex marriage.\n\nMehlman was born in Baltimore, Maryland. He is one of two sons born to Judith and Arthur Mehlman. His father was director of MuniMae and a former partner at KPMG, for which he was the head of the firm's auditing department in the Baltimore-Washington Metropolitan Area. Mehlman's brother, Bruce, works as a lobbyist at Mehlman Vogel Castagnetti.\n\nMehlman received his undergraduate degree in 1988 from Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, where he became a member of Phi Kappa Tau's Xi chapter. He received his J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1991, where he was a classmate of future President Barack Obama.\n\nMehlman practiced environmental law at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld in Washington, D.C. from 1991 to 1994, when he became legislative director to Representative Lamar S. Smith of Texas's 21st congressional district. Mehlman served as Smith's legislative director from 1994 to 1996, and then as chief of staff to Representative Kay Granger of Texas's 12th congressional district from 1996 to 1999.\n\nMehlman served as field director for the 2000 presidential campaign of George W. Bush. When Bush became president, Mehlman became director of the White House Office of Political Affairs. He managed the Bush re-election campaign in 2004. In January 2005, the American Association of Political Consultants gave Mehlman the \"Campaign Manager of the Year\" award for his management of the Bush/Cheney presidential ticket.\n\nMehlman joined Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co in 2008. He is KKR's Global Head of Public Affairs, helping assess and improve the companies in which KKR invests by engaging stakeholders & leveraging geopolitical & public policy trends. Mehlman also oversees the firm's global external affairs, including corporate marketing, regulatory affairs & public policy, and communications. Mehlman leads KKR's Environmental Social Governance (ESG) programs for the firm and its portfolio companies.\n\nIn addition to his role at KKR, Mehlman is a trustee of New York's Mount Sinai Hospital, Franklin & Marshall College, and Teach for America. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, serves as chairman of the American Investment Council (previously the Private Equity Growth Capital Council), and is co-Chairman of the American Enterprise Institute's National Council. He is also a trustee and board member of Sponsors for Educational Opportunity (SEO). Mehlman was appointed to the board of directors of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board in June, 2016.\n\nOn January 10, 2017, Mark Zuckerberg announced on Facebook that Mehlman and David Plouffe would be joining the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative. Mehlman will chair the philanthropy's public policy advisory board, which he stated in his official Facebook post will consist of \"a diverse group of advisors and experts.\"\n\nMehlman was Bush's choice to replace Ed Gillespie as the chair of the Republican National Committee and was elected to the post on January 19, 2005. Mehlman announced after the November 2006 general election that he would not seek re-election to another term as Republican National Chairman. One of his top deputies, RNC political Director Michael DuHaime, announced in December 2006 that he would become campaign manager for Rudy Giuliani's 2008 presidential campaign.\n\nMehlman addressed the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) a full year before Bush addressed the civil rights organization. In his address to the NAACP on July 14, 2005 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Mehlman apologized for his party's failure to reach out to the black community in the aftermath of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, stating, \"Some Republicans gave up on winning the African-American vote, looking the other way or trying to benefit politically from racial polarization... I am here as Republican chairman to tell you we were wrong.\"\n\nAlthough Mehlman's speech seemed to suggest a new approach towards the African-American community, most have considered the approach to be unsuccessful, with several polls indicating that Republicans have not improved in terms of African-American approval. A \"Washington Post\" poll shows that Bush's approval rating among African Americans fell to two percent at one point, and a report card issued by the NAACP gave \"F's\" to a majority of Republicans in the 109th Congress.\n\nAs the head of the RNC, Mehlman played a key role, along with Karl Rove, in executing the Republican Party's long-term, yet ultimately unsuccessful, plan for electoral dominance. This is discussed at length in Peter Wallsten and Tom Hamburger's book, \"One Party Country\". Mehlman voluntarily stepped down as chairman of the RNC at the end of 2006. He was succeeded by Mike Duncan and Mel Martinez.\n\nA Democratic analysis of phone records introduced at the 2005 criminal trial of James Tobin, the Northeast political director for the RNC in 2002, shows that Mehlman made 115 outgoing calls – mostly to the same number in the White House office of political affairs – between September 17 and November 22, 2002, when the office of political affairs was headed by Mehlman. Two dozen calls were made from 9:28 a.m. the day before the election through 2:17 a.m. on the night after the voting, a three-day period. Virtually all the calls to the White House went to the same phone number. In April 2006, Mehlman issued a statement on the matter, noting that his deputy for the Northeast states routinely discussed election business with RNC officials, and categorically stated that \"none of my conversations nor the conversations of my staff, involved discussion of the phone-jamming incident.\" Tobin was convicted on December 15, 2005 \"for his part in a plot to jam the Democratic Party's phones on Election Day 2002\"; however, this conviction was later overturned by a federal appeals court and Tobin was acquitted on all charges.\n\nIn August 2010, Mehlman revealed that he is gay. Prior to this revelation, rumors about Mehlman's sexual orientation had circulated since at least 2004. In May 2006, Mehlman denied he was gay, telling the \"New York Daily News\": \"I'm not gay, but those stories did a number on my dating life for six months.\" On November 8, 2006, comedian Bill Maher made an appearance on \"Larry King Live\", during which he referred to Mehlman as a closeted gay man. The incident became controversial because CNN edited out Maher's comments in later taped editions and removed the reference to Mehlman's sexual orientation from the transcript of the show. The day after Maher's comments, Mehlman announced he would step down as chairman of the RNC (although reports said that his resignation had been expected for some time).\n\nAlmost four years later, in an article in \"The Atlantic\", Mehlman stated that he is in fact gay, and that he planned to be an advocate for legalizing same-sex marriage. According to the \"New York Times\", Mehlman's \"announcement makes him apparently the most prominent Republican official to come out.\" This disclosure followed years of him avoiding and denying inquiries about his sexual orientation. During his RNC chairmanship, Mehlman supported certain positions of the Republican Party, including opposition to same-sex marriage. Mehlman stated he could not have gone against party consensus, but acknowledged that, had he come out of the closet earlier, he might have been able to impact Republican efforts to pass state initiatives and referenda banning same-sex marriage.\n\nMarc Ambinder, who interviewed Mehlman and wrote \"The Atlantic\" article, said that Mehlman's roles with the RNC and the Bush campaign \"coincided with the Republican Party's attempts to exploit anti-gay prejudices and cement the allegiance of social conservatives\". A few commentators, such as Cenk Uygur and Michael Rogers, criticized Mehlman on \"The Ed Show\", for having remained closeted about his sexuality while active in politics. Rogers has long advocated for the forced outing of closeted gay politicians who vote or advocate against LGBT interests.\n\nSome segments of the LGBT community expressed support for Mehlman. Dustin Lance Black, the Academy Award-winning writer of \"Milk,\" said, \"Ken represents an incredible coup for the American Foundation for Equal Rights ... As a victorious former presidential campaign manager and head of the Republican Party, Ken has the proven experience and expertise to help us communicate with people across each of the 50 states.\" Stephen Petrow, former president of the National Lesbian & Gay Journalists Association, wrote in a Huffington Post column, \"... the 43-year old Mehlman found the courage to be honest about his identity with family, friends, former colleagues and current colleagues [who have] been wonderful and supportive.\" Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund President and CEO Chuck Wolfe said in a public statement, \"We hope the fact that Ken Mehlman has reached this level of honesty will now encourage other political leaders to reject divisive anti-gay campaign tactics...\"\n\nIn June 2011, Mehlman lobbied Republican members of the New York state legislature to support the legalization of same-sex marriage in New York and reached out to conservative donors and operatives.\n\nMehlman often spoke with undecided GOP senators, including three of the four who eventually voted in favor of the bill. Mehlman, who gained the support of many gay-rights backers, discussed the political and ideological reasons why lawmakers should vote for the bill. He said, \"Letting two adults who love each other get married strengthens and promotes families.\" Mehlman told GOP senators that legalizing same-sex marriage aligned with Republican interests and principles. He emphasized that polls showed a significant shift toward voter support of same-sex marriage. Four Republican senators voted for the Marriage Equality Act.\n\nSeveral gay rights leaders and bloggers recognized Mehlman's role. Mehlman was honored in \"Out Magazine\" 2011's Out100 list partially because of his work on the campaign. Mehlman has been active in Maryland, New Hampshire and Washington State, helping to raise almost $3 million for these campaigns between August 2010 (when he \"came out\") and March 2012. He continued to campaign for same-sex marriage, before \"United States v. Windsor\", the 2013 United States Supreme Court decision which held that same-sex marriage is constitutional, by aiming to show GOP leaders why same-sex marriage \"is consistent with Republican and conservative principles\", and speaking on that topic throughout the country.\n\nIn November 2013, Mehlman launched a non-profit organization called Project Right Side focused on convincing more Republicans to support marriage equality. The organization also conducts research and analysis in an effort to improve political conditions for LGBTQ issues. He stated that \"Conservatives don't need to change core convictions to embrace the growing support for equal rights for gay Americans. It is sufficient to recognize the inherent conservatism in citizens' desire to marry, to be judged on their work, and not to be singled out for higher taxes or bullying at school. These objectives can be achieved while also protecting religious liberty, as demonstrated by states enacting civil marriage with exemptions for religious institutions.\"\n\nIn January 2013, also before \"United States v. Windsor\", Mehlman spoke with political activist David Kochel in Iowa about how supporting same-sex marriage is a conservative value. He stated that, \"I'm a conservative because I believe in more freedom and I believe in less government. I think that we are endowed by our Creator, not by politicians, not by government, not by bureaucrats, with inalienable rights, including the pursuit of happiness. If you believe that, what could be more central to the pursuit of happiness than choosing the person that you love, that you have the right to marry?\"\n\nIn February 2014, Mehlman was a keynote speaker at the first campus-wide Harvard LGTBQ conference on the 45th anniversary of the Stonewall Riots where he was interviewed by Baruch Shemtov. He spoke during the closing remarks of the conference, stating \"there's nothing more powerful than coming out and being who you are.\"\n\nMehlman supported the repeal of the \"Don't ask, don't tell\" military policy introduced during President Bill Clinton's tenure. In 2010, Mehlman lobbied ten U.S. Senators to repeal the policy.\n\nIn February 2013, Mehlman helped organize an amicus curiae brief to the Supreme Court in the case of California Proposition 8 signed by dozens of prominent socially moderate Republicans, including Jon Huntsman, Jr., Meg Whitman, Ken Duberstein, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, and others, explaining that they supported a Constitutional right to same-sex marriage. According to the \"New York Times\", Ken Mehlman spent \"months in quiet conversations with fellow Republicans to gather signatures for the brief.\" \"We are trying to say to the court that we are judicial and political conservatives, and it is consistent with our values and philosophy for you to overturn Proposition 8,\" said Ken Mehlman according to the New York Times report.\n\nMehlman is Jewish and lives in New York City.\n\n"}
{"id": "52296603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52296603", "title": "La République En Marche!", "text": "La République En Marche!\n\nLa République En Marche ! (frequently abbreviated REM, LRM or LREM, officially LaREM; possible translation: \"The Republic on the move!\"), sometimes called En Marche ! (; English translation: \"Forward!\", \"Onward!\", \"Working!\" or \"On The Move!\"), is a centrist, liberal and social-liberal political party in France. It was founded on 6 April 2016 by Emmanuel Macron, a former Minister of Economy, Industry and Digital Affairs, who was later elected President of France in the 2017 presidential election with 66.1% of the second-round vote. Macron considers La République En Marche! to be a progressive movement, uniting both the left and the right.\n\nThe party ran candidates in the 2017 legislative elections including dissidents from the Socialist Party, The Republicans and minor parties. It won an absolute majority in the National Assembly, securing 308 seats. Its ally, the Democratic Movement, secured 42.\n\nLa République En Marche! is a pro-European movement that accepts globalization and wants to modernize and moralize French politics. The movement generally accepts members from other parties at a higher rate than other political parties in France and does not impose any fees on members who want to join. The party is seen as the most pro-European party in France, but it is not currently part of any European parliamentary group.\n\nLa Gauche Libre, the think tank for the movement, was declared as an organization on 1 March 2015. Afterwards, lesjeunesavecmacron.fr was registered as a domain on 23 June 2015. Eventually, two Facebook pages were created and an extra domain registered. Another organization was eventually created by Macron, declared as L'Association pour le renouvellement de la vie politique and registered as a micro-party in January 2016. This was following en-marche.fr being claimed as a domain. L'Association pour le renouvellement de la vie politique was then registered as EMA EN MARCHE in March.\n\nEn Marche! was founded on 6 April 2016 in Amiens by Emmanuel Macron, then aged 38, with the help of political advisor Ismaël Emelien. The initials of the name of the party are the same as the initials of Macron's name.\n\nThe announcement of En Marche! was the first indication by Macron that he was planning to run for President, with Macron using En Marche! to fundraise for the potential presidential run. The launch of the party was widely covered throughout the media and media coverage continued to peak as tensions rose among Macron and other government ministers as his loyalty was questioned. In the weeks following the creation of En Marche!, Macron soared in the opinion polls to be seen as the main competitor on the left.\n\nThe creation of En Marche! was welcomed by several political figures including Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, Jean-Pierre Raffarin and Pierre Gattaz, though it was also criticised by Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Christian Estrosi.\n\nIn an attempt to create the party's first platform that it would launch into a campaign with, Macron and head of operations Ludovic Chaker recruited 4,000 volunteers to conduct door-to-door surveys to 100,000 people and then they would use the information gained to create a programme closer to the French electorate. Only a quarter of the 100,000 surveys handed out were ever completed.\n\nLa République En Marche! ran candidates in most constituencies. At least half its candidates came from civil society, the other half having previously held political office and half were women. No double investitures were permitted, though Macron waived the original requirement of prospective candidates to leave their previous political party on 5 May 2017. In addition to those parameters, Macron specified in his initial press conference on 19 January that he would require that candidates demonstrate probity (disqualifying any prospective candidates with a criminal record), political plurality (representing the threads of the movement) and efficacy. Those wishing to seek the endorsement of République En Marche! had to sign up online and the movement received nearly 15,000 applications.\n\nWhen dealing with nominations sought by those in the political world, the party considered the popularity, establishment and media skills of applicants, with the most difficult cases adjudicated by Macron himself. To present themselves under the label of La République En Marche!, outgoing deputies had to leave the Socialist Party (PS) or The Republicans (LR). Macron previously said the legislative candidates would have to leave the PS before they could join République En Marche! in the election. However, then La République En Marche! spokesperson Christophe Castaner later said they could stay in the PS as long as they supported Macron. Moreover, spokesperson Jean-Paul Delevoye said the members of civil society could be mayors or members of regional councils and departmental councils.\n\nAfter François Bayrou endorsed Macron in February, the Democratic Movement (MoDem), which he leads, reserved 90 constituencies for MoDem candidates (running under the label of La République En Marche!), of which 50 were considered winnable.\n\nOn 15 May 2017, the secretary general of the presidency announced the appointment of Édouard Philippe, a member of LR, as Prime Minister.\n\nBy winning an absolute majority in the National Assembly in the second round of the elections on 18 June 2017, La République En Marche! became France's party of power in support of the President.\n\nIn the September 2017 senate elections, La République En Marche! lost seats, ending up with 21, seven fewer than before. While hoping to double its representatives in the senate, party officials have noted that due to the elections electoral system of indirect universal suffrage, where deputies, senators and regional councilors elect senators, the party had a disadvantage due to being new. \n\nIn the same month, the first party congress was announced to be held in Lyon. The first gathering of party adherents and representatives, party spokesman, Christophe Castaner announced his candidacy on 25 October 2017 with the endorsement of President Macron, allowing him to run unopposed. The congress took place on the 19 November 2017 and Castaner was elected the Executive Officer and leader of the party by a council of 800 people, with a quarter being adherents of the party. Castaner's term will last three years. The congress generated media attention for criticism surrounding it, including a walk-out done by attendees of the congress where hundred attendants unanimously resigned from the party due to accusations of a lack of internal democracy and corruption. \n\nThe first by-election of 15th National Assembly of France in Val-d'Oise's 1st constituency's, which was a La République En Marche! seat, was up for contention after it was ruled that deputy Isabelle Muller-Quoy's replacement Michel Alexeef was ineligible under electoral code. Muller-Quoy won the first round by 18 percentage points in 2017 and won the first round by only 5 percentage points in the by-election, going onto lose the seat to the LR candidate Antoine Savignat. The race was the first loss the party had endured in the National Assembly. Several subsequent by-elections following showed a 10% overall swing against La République En Marche! since the June 2017 legislative elections.\n\nAlthough Macron was a member of the PS from 2006 to 2009 and an independent from 2009 to 2016, La République En Marche! seeks to transcend traditional political boundaries to be a transpartisan organisation.\n\nMacron has described it as being a progressive party of both the left and the right. Observers and political commentators have described the party as being both socially and economically liberal in ideology.\n\nAccording to an Ipsos survey conducted in March 2018, the public perception of the party has moved to the right since March 2017 and now a majority of French people classify the party as being centre-right.\n\n considers every person who submits identification information (date of birth, email, full address and telephone number) and adheres to the party's charter to be an adherent. Unlike other political parties, it does not require adherents to make a monetary donation. Macron has indicated that it is possible to adhere to while remaining a member of another republican party.\n\nOn 10 April 2016, a few days after the movement's launch, Macron claimed 13,000 adherents. accused him of inflating the figure and claimed that 13,000 was in reality the number of clicks that Macron had received on his website. , Macron's advisor, clarified that \"each adherent signs a charter of values and has a voice in the movement's general assembly\" and that \"that has nothing to do with those who sign up for the newsletter, who are much greater in number\". , another of Macron's advisors, affirmed that the movement verifies the email addresses of adherents but conceded that \"the system relies on the honesty of each adherent\".\n\nIn October 2016, Macron affirmed that was \"neck and neck with the Socialist Party\" in terms of membership after only seven months of existence. According to , this included many independents and executives, but few functionaries, farmers and unemployed people. Many of the members have never been engaged in politics. The majority have only shown interest by leaving their information on the site.\n\nBy relying on a participatory political model, each adherent has the opportunity to freely join or create a local committee. Each of these committees is led by one or more adherents who organize the committee by planning local events, meetings and debates centered around the ideas and values promoted by the movement. counted more than 2,600 of these committees in December 2016.\n\nChristian Dargnat, former general director of BNP Paribas Asset Management, leads the La République En Marche! financial association. Since its creation, the association has raised funds for La République En Marche!. In 2016, Georges Fenech, a deputy of The Republicans, alerted the National Assembly that the association had continued fund raising even during Macron's trip to London. This led Prime Minister Manuel Valls to issue an official denial even though En Marche! had already done so. Macron declared in May 2016 that 2,000 donors had already contributed financially to En Marche!. In December 2016, he spoke of more than 10,000 donors from 1 euro to 7,500 euros. By the end of December 2016, he had collected between 4 and 5 million euros in donations. At the end of March, this figure exceeded 9 million euros from 35,000 donations, averaging 257 euros per donation. 600 donors made up half of the total amount donated, with donations upwards of 5,000 euros.\n\nIn the book \"Dans l'enfer de Bercy: Enquête sur les secrets du ministère des Finances\" (JC Lattès, 2017) by journalists Frédéric Says and Marion L'Hour, Macron was accused of using 120,000 euros from the state budget from 1 January to 30 August 2016 in order to fund his presidential campaign.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2881779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2881779", "title": "Land reform in the Roman republic", "text": "Land reform in the Roman republic\n\nThe first attempted land reforms in the Roman Republic occurred in 486 BC under the consulships of Spurius Cassius Viscellinus, and Proculus Verginius Tricostus Rutilus. After winning a war against the Hernici to the south, the consul Cassius attempted to pass a bill granting two-thirds of the Hernicians' land to the plebs, and Latin allies, with one half going to each. This bill would take some land owned by patricians and place it under public domain. The patricians immediately opposed this bill. Livy states this was the first and only proposal of land reform which did not immediately throw Rome into violence. The consul Verginius opposed this bill, and subsequently backed by the Patricians. \n\nNow both consuls, backed by plebeian and patrician alike, vied for the neutral body of Romans. Verginius hurled accusations that Cassius was a secret ally of the Hernicians by allowing them to keep 1/3 of their lands.\n\nVerginius proposed the land be distributed only among the Roman citizens, and none should go to the Latin allies who assisted in taking it. Cassius replied by promising to give the Romans whatever Sicilian corn they received for free, yet this was seen as a bribe and only raised their suspicions of him. This move ruined his reputation and marked him for death. \n\nIn 485 BC Cassius' and Verginius' terms ended as consul. Cassius was put to death. He was charged with treason by two quaestors Caeso Fabius and Lucius Valerius. He was found guilty of this charge by the people and his house was burned to the ground. \n\nThe plebeians quickly forgot about the land they had yet to receive when the patrician senate halted payment to the soldiers who fought in the following war against the Volscians and Æquans. The land was sold off by the consul Quintus Fabius and most likely bought up by the wealthier patrician class. This event planted the seeds for hundreds of years of plebeian-patrician antagonism.\n\nThe Gracchus reforms were land reforms attempted in the Roman Republic in the 2nd century BC. They are explained in detail in the following pages:\n\n\nThe Gracchian reform had no permanent effect, for they did nothing to change the conditions giving rise to land concentration in the first place. Some of the reform laws were soon repealed, while others continued but with weakened effects over time. Land problems plagued the Romans for all times thereafter.\n\nAppian adds that within 15 years, all of the progress done under the Gracchi had been overturned and the poor were in a much worse position than ever before, many reduced to unemployment.\n\nUnder Cicero's term as Consul in 63 BC, Servilius Rullus proposed a land reform bill. Cicero opposed this and the Senate voted it down.\n\nDuring Julius Caesar's first day as Consul in 59 BC, he proposed a bill similar to Rullus'. This is detailed in the article about the First Triumvirate.\n\n"}
{"id": "522846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=522846", "title": "Langar (Sikhism)", "text": "Langar (Sikhism)\n\nLangar () (kitchen) is the term used in Sikhism for the community kitchen in a Gurdwara where a free meal is served to all the visitors, without distinction of religion, caste, gender, economic status or ethnicity. The free meal is always vegetarian. People sit on the floor, eat together, and the kitchen is maintained and serviced by Sikh community volunteers.\n\nAt the langar, all people eat a vegetarian meal as equals. The exception to vegetarian langar is when Nihang Sikhs (such as those at the Chhauni of Akali Phula Singh) serve meat (called \"mahaprasad\") on special occasions.\n\n\"Langar\" is a Persian word and came into Punjabi from it.\n\nLangar, as an institution, was first started by Baba Farid, a Muslim of the Chishti Sufi order. The institution of the langar was already popular in the 12th and 13th century among Sufis (Muslim mystics) of the Indian subcontinent. The practice grew and is documented in the \"Jawahir al-Faridi\" compiled in 1623 CE. It was later, both the institution and term, adopted by Sikhs. The langar concept was an innovative charity and symbol of equality adopted by the founder of Sikhism, Guru Nanak around 1500 CE. According to Arvind-Pal Singh Mandair, a professor of Sikh Studies, community kitchens were already operating in Punjab when Guru Nanak founded Sikhism, and these were run by Muslim Sufi orders and by Hindu Gorakhnath orders.\n\nIn Sikhism, the practice of the \"langar\", or free kitchen, is believed to have been started by the first Sikh Guru, Guru Nanak. It was designed to uphold the principle of equality between all people regardless of religion, caste, colour, creed, age, gender or social status. The second Guru of Sikhism, Guru Angad is remembered in Sikh tradition for systematizing the institution of langar in all Sikh temple premises, where visitors from near and far, could get a free simple meal in a communal seating.\n\nIt was the third Guru, Amar Das, who established langar as a prominent institution, and required people to dine together irrespective of their caste and social rank. He encouraged the practice of langar and made all those who visited him attend laṅgar before they could speak to him. He was originally a Vaishnavite (and thus vegetarian), and is said to have accompanied Guru Angad to a langar that served meat. When Guru Angad saw that Amar Das was nervous and sat aloof, he ordered the server to give Amar Das only cereals. Most Sikh langars serve vegetarian food though the nihangs of Anandpur Sahib do serve meat on special occasions.\n\nLangars are regularly held all over the world to feed the homeless. Major Indian Gurdwaras operate langars where thousands of visitors join in for a simple vegetarian meal everyday.\n\n"}
{"id": "45416148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45416148", "title": "Libertarian perspectives on affirmative action", "text": "Libertarian perspectives on affirmative action\n\nLibertarian perspectives on affirmative action consistently coincide with the way that libertarians view the state as a coercive power. Many libertarians believe that the state should not be used as an instrument of power in enforcing what they call positive discrimination.\n\nOne point of view considers libertarianism as being compatible with affirmative action. Associate professor of political science Andrew Valls from Oregon State University writes in a paper titled \"The Libertarian Case for Affirmative Action\" that \"libertarianism underwrites calls for black reparations, and that affirmative action policies can be seen as a partial payment on reparations that are owed African Americans\", in what Valls references as \"the principle of justice in rectification\", a term originally created by Robert Nozick in his book, Anarchy, State, and Utopia. This view contradicts the mainstream view of many libertarian think tanks.\n\nA point of view that coincides with mainstream views that many libertarians share is \"the use of racial classifications in public policies, including in affirmative action policy, pose[s] a great threat to individual liberties.\" Many libertarians claim that restrictions placed on private sectors violate certain individual rights and liberties. Libertarians often oppose intervention, especially by governments, of any kind in the private sector.\n\nDavid Bernstein, a Foundation Professor at George Mason University, argues that anti-discrimination law should at the very least be scrutinized, a main reason being that \"...Antidiscrimination laws are unlikely to provide much protection to a minority group when the majority of the voting population is hostile to that group.\" Furthermore, according to Bernstein, even with anti-discrimination laws in place, the majority population is no more inclined to change previously held perceptions of the minority population, eliciting little to no change.\n\nAnother main reason why libertarians tend to oppose affirmative action is due to the macroeconomics issues the policy presents. Llewellyn Rockwell, a libertarian author and editor, references Steven Yates' book, \"Civil Wrongs: What Went Wrong With Affirmative Action\" as an example as to why affirmative action is a policy that libertarians tend to not support. Additionally, Rockwell argues that anti-discrimination laws such as affirmative action is \"an inefficient use of labor and intellectual resources.\" Rockwell reasons that individuals should be hired or accepted to a university based on merit rather than having to be subjected to affirmative action laws. Because affirmative action laws tend to require a certain quota of majority versus minority individuals being hired or accepted, Rockwell argues that it is possible for an individual belonging to a majority would be rejected in favor of another individual belonging to a minority.\n\nMarie Gryphon argues that affirmative action can cause more harm to minority groups than good. \"A phenomenon called the \"ratchet effect\" means that preferences at a handful of top schools, including state flagship institutions, can worsen racial disparities in academic preparation at all other American colleges and universities, including those that do not use admissions preferences.\" Due to this \"ratchet effect\", Gryphon argues that the disparity between the majority and minority populations are only worsened due to affirmative action policies. Often, advocates of affirmative action argue that \"college has helped many minority students achieve middle-class lives\" and that \"without preferences colleges would become \"re-segregated,\" depriving American students of the educational benefits of a diverse student body.\" Gryphon also argues that preferences, especially racial, harms \"students of all races by impeding learning and generating unnecessary suspicion and distrust between groups.\"\n"}
{"id": "34324195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34324195", "title": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Barbados", "text": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Barbados\n\nThis is a list of the 30 constituencies currently represented in the Parliament of Barbados, as at the February 2013 general election. From 1971, each constituency has been represented by a single Member of Parliament (MP). The number of seats were increased from 28 to 30 just ahead of the 2003 elections.\n\nAfter Barbados was settled by the Kingdom of England, a House of Burgesses was established to conduct the business of governance in the colony along with the Governor. From an early date, if not the beginning, there were two members of the House of Assembly for each parish; in 1843 two members were added for Bridgetown, bringing the total to 24 Members. In 1971 dual representatives for each constituency were abolished in favour of single seat ridings and the entire island was divided into 24 constituencies. In 1981 three more constituencies were created; thus bring the total to 27. By the election of 1991 a 28th was added, and finally ahead of the 2003 general election two more were added bringing the national total to 30. As of 2011 the Electoral and Boundaries Commission decided that no new constituencies would be needed. However, there was a subsequent call made by the media that St. Philip-South's population was now too large and was disproportionate to all other constituencies. Despite the call, Barbados held the 2013 elections without adding any new constituencies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21967607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21967607", "title": "Magic Lantern (software)", "text": "Magic Lantern (software)\n\nMagic Lantern is keystroke logging software developed by the United States' Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Magic Lantern was first reported in a column by Bob Sullivan of MSNBC on 20 November 2001 and by Ted Bridis of the Associated Press.\n\nMagic Lantern can reportedly be installed remotely, via an e-mail attachment or by exploiting common operating system vulnerabilities, unlike previous keystroke logger programs used by the FBI. It has been variously described as a virus and a Trojan horse. It is not known how the program might store or communicate the recorded keystrokes.\n\nIn response to a Freedom of Information Act request filed in 2000 by the Electronic Privacy Information Center, the FBI released a series of unclassified documents relating to Carnivore, which included the \"Enhanced Carnivore Project Plan\". Sullivan's confidential source said that redacted portions of that document mention \"Cyber Knight\", \n\nThe FBI intends to deploy Magic Lantern in the form of an e-mail attachment. When the attachment is opened, it installs a trojan horse on the suspect's computer. The trojan horse is activated when the suspect uses PGP encryption, often used to increase the security of sent e-mail messages. When activated, the trojan horse will log the PGP password, which allows the FBI to decrypt user communications.\n\nSpokesmen for the FBI soon confirmed the existence of a program called Magic Lantern. They denied that it had been deployed, and they declined to comment further.\n\nThe public disclosure of the existence of Magic Lantern sparked a debate as to whether anti-virus companies could or should detect the FBI's keystroke logger.\n\nConcerns include uncertainties about Magic Lantern's full potential and whether hackers could subvert it for purposes outside the jurisdiction of the law.\n\nBridis reported that Network Associates (maker of McAfee anti-virus products), had contacted the FBI following the press reports about Magic Lantern to ensure their anti-virus software would not detect the program. Network Associates issued a denial, fueling speculation as to which anti-virus products might or might not detect government trojans.\n\nCNET News has surveyed 13 security companies about their contacts with and level of cooperation with law enforcement authorities. None of them confirmed that their products cover up gov-installed malware.\n\nGraham Cluley, a technology consultant from Sophos, said \"We have no way of knowing if it was written by the FBI, and even if we did, we wouldn't know whether it was being used by the FBI or if it had been commandeered by a third party\". Another reaction from this came from Marc Maiffret, chief technology officer and cofounder of eEye Digital Security who states: \"Our customers are paying us for a service, to protect them from all forms of malicious code. It is not up to us to do law enforcement's job for them so we do not, and will not, make any exceptions for law enforcement malware or other tools.\"\n\nWhen asked if Magic Lantern would need a court order to deploy, FBI spokesman Paul Bresson would not comment, stating: \"Like all technology projects or tools deployed by the FBI it would be used pursuant to the appropriate legal process.\" Proponents of Magic Lantern argue the technology would allow law enforcement to efficiently and quickly decrypt messages protected by encryption schemes. Implementing Magic Lantern does not require physical access to a suspect's computer, unlike Carnivore, a predecessor to Magic Lantern, since physical access to a computer would require a court order.\n\nFollowing the media coverage of Magic Lantern, F-Secure (a Finnish anti-virus company), announced their policy on detecting government spying programs: \"F-Secure Corporation would like to make known that we will not leave such backdoors to our F-Secure Anti-Virus products, regardless of the source of such tools. We have to draw a line with every sample we get regarding whether to detect it or not. This decision-making is influenced only by technical factors, and nothing else, but within the applicable laws and regulations, in our case meaning EU laws.\n\nWe will also be adding detection of any program we see that might be used for terrorist activity or to benefit organized crime. We would like to state this for the record, as we have received queries regarding whether we would have the guts to detect something obviously made by a known violent mafia or terrorist organization. Yes we would.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53328147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53328147", "title": "Marta Salgado", "text": "Marta Salgado\n\nMarta Salgado (born 1947) is an Afro-Chilean activist who focuses on promoting cultural preservation and civil rights protections for the African diaspora. She has founded several non-governmental organizations to promote women's and minority rights and served as a government advisor in these areas. Trained as a teacher and public administrator, she has written books and articles on the legacy of Africans in Chile.\n\nMarta Victoria Salgado Henríquez was born on 23 March 1947 in Arica, Chile to Marta Henríquez Corvacho and Santiago Salgado Cano. Her family, which includes her brother, Santiago, and sister, Sonia were of African descent. She grew up in Arica, an area in which the majority of descendants of African slaves who arrived during the colonial period lived. Her mulatto parents experienced the government's objectives to \"Chileanize\" the region which had previously been part of Peru. Those residents who refused to nationalize as Chileans, were pushed out through forced emigration and those who remained, attempted to hide their ancestry to blend into the larger society. \n\nAfter completing her secondary education, Salgado earned a degree in preschool education from the Universidad de Chile (UC). She furthered her education at the Universidad de Tarapacá (UTA), acquiring a degree in public administration and completed postgraduate studies at UC earning certificates in community organization, gender, and planning and development.\n\nSalgado began her career as a teacher in the in state universities of the Arica-Parinacota region and spent forty-one years as a professor at UTA. During her time at the university, Salgado was active in the creation of the Women’s Movement of the North and the founding of the National Women’s Service () to address domestic violence, and civil protections for women. Work with these organizations has resulted in legislation for the protection of women. She was a co-founder, and served as president for four terms, of the Universidad de Tarapacá' workers' union, as well as a similar organization, Federation of State University Employees of the North () for employees at other state institutions. Salgado was a participant in the twenty-four commissions held during 1994 and 2000 by the government of Arica to create the administrative region of Arica-Parinacota. \n\nIn 2001, Salgado founded the non-governmental organization Oro Negro (Black Gold), the first in the country to advocate for the inclusion of populations of African descent in public policies, which include both anti-discrimination and official recognition as an ethnic group with the legal protections that entails. From the founding of the organization, she coordinated folklore group of Oro Negro, attending conventions and meetings regarding the African diaspora throughout the Caribbean and Latin America. By creating networks with activists in places as far flung as Bolivia, the Caribbean, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, Honduras, Morocco, Paraguay and Uruguay, Salgado recognized that the problems of recognition were similar. Governments recognize the \"Slave Route\" as an educational and tourist-worthy part of the cultural heritage, but not the people themselves. Salgado pressed for the government to take a census of the Afro-Chilean population, as well as to sponsor programs to destigmatize participation in events designed to promote their culture, sensitizing the public to their right to have their ethnic identity protected. Between 2004 and 2008, Salgado was a member of the consulting committee of the Chilean Advisory Panel on Culture and the Arts (), as a representative of the Afro-Chilean community. \n\nAfter more than a decade of pressuring the government, to prepare a statistical analysis of the Afro-Chilean community, Salgado and other activists were successful in obtaining a regional survey in 2011, but not in gaining national inclusion in the federal census as an ethnic minority. Her chapter \"El legado africano en Chile\" was published in the book \"Conocimiento desde adentro: Los afrosudamericanos hablando de sus pueblos y sus historias\" (2010), edited by Sheila Walker and her own publication \"Afrochilenos: Una historia oculta\" occurred in 2013. In 2016, Salgado was recognized with the governmental award from the Department of Cultural Heritage of the National Council for Culture and the Arts as Best Cultural Heritage Manager in the Region of Arica and Parinacota.\n\n"}
{"id": "23150780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23150780", "title": "Ministry of Health (Peru)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Peru)\n\nThe Ministry of Health of Peru is an entity of the Peruvian government responsible for the healthcare sector. The current Minister of Health is Silvia Pessah.\n\nUpon the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the death of the Peruvian medical researcher Daniel Alcides Carrión, the government enacted the creation of the Ministry of Public Health, Works and Social Precaution. This ministry incorporated the previous Directory of Public Health and Social Precaution as well as the Directory of Indian Affairs of the Ministry of Foment. It additionally assumed the functions of the Department of Philanthropy which at the time belonged to the Ministry of Justice.\n\nIn 1942, the ministry changed its name to the Ministry of Public Health and Social Assistance, and in 1968 its name was again changed to the current Ministry of Health.\n\nThe first Minister of Health was Armando Montes de Peralta.\n\nThe Ministry of Health maintains the mission to protect the public dignity, to promote health, to prevent disease, and to guarantee healthcare to all inhabitants of the country. Additionally, it formulates public policy regarding sanitation.\n"}
{"id": "34181799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34181799", "title": "Murder of Ann Ogilby", "text": "Murder of Ann Ogilby\n\nThe murder of Ann Ogilby, also known as the \"Romper Room murder\", took place in Sandy Row, south Belfast, Northern Ireland on 24 July 1974. It was a punishment killing, carried out by members of the Sandy Row women's Ulster Defence Association (UDA) unit. At the time the UDA was a legal Ulster loyalist paramilitary organisation. The victim, Ann Ogilby, a Protestant single mother of four, was beaten to death by two teenaged girls after being sentenced to a \"rompering\" (UDA slang term for a torture session followed by a fatal beating) at a kangaroo court. Ogilby had been having an affair with a married UDA commander, William Young, who prior to his internment, had made her pregnant. His wife, Elizabeth Young, was a member of the Sandy Row women's UDA unit. Ogilby had made defamatory remarks against Elizabeth Young in public regarding food parcels. Eight weeks after Ogilby had given birth to Young's son, the women's unit decided that Ogilby would pay for both the affair and remarks with her life. The day following the kangaroo court \"trial\", they arranged for the kidnapping of Ogilby and her six-year-old daughter, Sharlene, outside a Social Services office by UDA man Albert \"Bumper\" Graham.\n\nA group of UDA women then followed the minibus which brought Ogilby and Sharlene to a disused bakery in Hunter Street, Sandy Row; this empty building had been converted into a UDA club and \"romper room\". After Sharlene was sent by Graham to a shop to buy sweets, Ogilby was made to sit on a bench and a hood placed over her head. Two teenagers, Henrietta Cowan and Christine Smith, acting on the orders previously given them by the unit's leader, Elizabeth \"Lily\" Douglas, proceeded to savagely beat Ogilby to death with bricks and sticks. As Ogilby screamed and pleaded for her life, Sharlene, who had already returned from the shop, overheard her mother being beaten and killed. A later autopsy report revealed that Ogilby had sustained 24 blows to the head and body, 14 of which caused a \"severe fracture to the bulk of the skull\".\n\nWithin weeks of the killing, ten women and one man were arrested in connection with the murder. They were convicted in February 1975. All but one, a minor whose sentence was suspended, went to prison. The murder caused widespread revulsion, shock and horror throughout Northern Ireland and remained long in the public psyche even at a time when bombings and killings were daily occurrences. The Ann Ogilby murder was investigated by the Historical Enquiries Team (HET) which was established by the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) to investigate the most controversial killings carried out during the Troubles.\n\nAnn Ogilby (born c.1942/1943 and sometimes referred to as Anne Ogilby), a young Protestant woman, moved to Belfast from Sion Mills, County Tyrone on a date that has not been firmly established. She was one of 13 children from a poor family. Described as a \"very attractive girl with dark-brown silky hair and blue eyes\", and a slender figure, she embarked on a transient lifestyle, regularly changing her address and employment. The jobs she held were mostly low-paid positions in offices and shops, and she was often evicted for failing to pay the rent. Her striking good looks made her popular with men. In about 1968 she became a single mother, having been made pregnant by a married British soldier stationed in Northern Ireland who had abandoned her and their child after he was transferred to another duty station. She started socialising with a rough crowd, and in August 1972, she met William Young, a married high-ranking member of the then-legal Ulster Defence Association (UDA) and began living with him in south Belfast. Young came from the loyalist Donegall Pass area and was a local UDA commander. He told Ogilby his marriage had already broken up and that his divorce hadn't been finalised. Ogilby by that time had three children each by a different partner: Sharlene, Stephen and Gary. The boys had been put up for adoption after their birth, leaving only the eldest child, her daughter Sharlene, in her care.\n\nWhen Young was interned inside the Maze Prison in 1973, she often visited him. He complained that his estranged wife, Elizabeth never sent him food parcels, despite her having been provided with money by the Loyalist Prisoners' Association (LPA). The LPA was unaware of the Young couple's estrangement. The delivery of food parcels by women to imprisoned members was a long-established practice by the UDA and a \"particular source of pride for the organisation\". Ogilby was required to make up and send him the food parcels herself which she felt was an imposition as these had to come out of her own money, although she was almost destitute. When Ogilby mistakenly repeated Young's complaint in a Sandy Row pub, the local Sandy Row women's UDA unit (of which Elizabeth was a member) overheard her words and became violently angry, especially as Elizabeth was able to prove that she had been sending her husband food parcels. Ogilby's comments were regarded by the women's UDA as a grievous insult to its integrity, as the unit was responsible for the assembly and distribution of the parcels. The group was already antagonistic due to Ogilby's affair with Young, and her defamatory remarks only added fuel to their wrath. The women considered her behaviour in public immoral, ostentatious, and extremely unconventional because she frequented clubs and pubs on her own instead of with female friends which was the custom in Sandy Row. Furthermore, they believed her loud, outspoken and maverick personality, status as an unmarried mother, and habit of what was described by a local as \"flaunting herself\" was a cultural infraction that brought shame upon their community.\n\nSandy Row is an Ulster Protestant working class enclave just south of Belfast city centre closely affiliated with the Orange Order whose 12 July parades are gaudy, elaborate events made notable by the traditional Orange Arches erected for the occasion. Prior to late 20th-century urban redevelopment beginning in the 1980s, rows of 19th-century terraced houses lined the streets and backstreets that branched off the main commercial thoroughfare. Loyalist paramilitaries have had an active presence there since the early days of the Troubles. By 1974, the violent ethno-political conflict waged between the Protestant unionists and Catholic Irish nationalists was six years old and showed no sign of abating; bombings, shootings, sectarian murders, intimidation, security alerts and military patrols were a daily feature of life in Belfast and the rest of Northern Ireland. There was no family in working-class areas of Belfast that remained unscathed by the Troubles or insusceptible to the effects of the disorder, tension and carnage. The Provisional Irish Republican Army's bombing campaign had escalated sharply in 1972 and began to increasingly target Belfast city centre, often with lethal consequences such as on Bloody Friday on 21 July 1972, when the Provisional IRA exploded 22 bombs across the city, killing nine people and injuring over 100. This led to the erection of steel gates, manned by the British Army, thus effectively putting a security cordon or \"ring of steel\" around the city centre, which resulted in both Protestants and Catholics retreating further into segregated neighbourhoods, which rapidly fell under the sway of local paramilitary groups who exerted a strong influence in their respective districts. These groups also assumed the role of policing their communities and rooting out what they described as anti-social elements. In the February 1974 edition of \"Ulster Loyalist\", a UDA publication, the UDA warned that it intended to take firm action against teenaged criminals and vandals in the Sandy Row and Village areas.\n\nRobert Fisk, Belfast correspondent for \"The Times\" between the years 1972-75, regarded the Sandy Row UDA as having been one of the most truculent of all paramilitary outfits in Belfast. Their bellicose stance over the street barricades they erected during the Ulster Workers Council Strike in May 1974 almost led them into direct confrontation with the British Army and they had even made preparations to fight if the latter had smashed the UDA roadblocks. The Sandy Row UDA's commander during this volatile period was Sammy Murphy who used as his headquarters the local Orange Hall. In addition to Sandy Row, Murphy had overall command of the South Belfast UDA and was referred to as a community leader in the British Army's press releases although his name and paramilitary affiliation were not mentioned. To defuse the explosive situation, Murphy engaged in talks with the Army which proved successful. According to journalists Henry McDonald and Jim Cusack, the Sandy Row and Donegall Pass UDA were almost completely out of control by this time; both the male and female members were caught up in violence and drunkenness and already inured to beatings and killings. Drinking clubs or shebeens where alcohol was obtained cheaply were common features in the area. Author David M. Kiely suggested that by this stage the women's unit was more about gangsterism and mob rule than adhering to a political cause.\n\nThe Sandy Row unit was not the only women's unit within the UDA. There was a particularly active women's group on the Shankill Road which had been established by Wendy \"Bucket\" Millar as the first UDA women's unit. A number of the members were highly visible due to the beehive hairstyles they typically wore. Although each unit was independent of the others, Jean Moore and later Hester Dunn served as the overall leaders of the UDA's women's department at the UDA headquarters in Gawn Street, east Belfast. Tanya Higgins and Nancy Brown Diggs observed in their book \"Women Living in Conflict\" that the loyalist paramilitary women were \"angrier and more militant\" than their male counterparts. Another analysis was provided by Sandra McEvoy in her report \"Women Loyalist Paramilitaries in Northern Ireland: Duty, Agency and Empowerment - a Report from the Field\" in which she suggested that by joining paramilitary groups like the UDA, loyalist women were provided with a sense of freedom and personal and political power that had previously been denied them in the domestic sphere; furthermore by taking up \"the gun\", the women proved they were willing to go to prison for their beliefs and the loyalist cause.\n\nThe commander of the Sandy Row women's unit was Elizabeth \"Lily\" Douglas, described by Kiely as having revered power above everything else in her life. As leader of that particular unit she exerted a great deal of control over the lives of other women within the area that included intimidation and moral policing. The middle of three daughters, Douglas was born and raised in an impoverished working-class family. She married at the age of 17 and had four children. By 1974, Douglas (aged 40) who lived in a terraced house in Sandy Row's City Street had a criminal record dating back over ten years for various offences which included smuggling, forgery, assault, inflicting bodily harm and running a brothel. When Ogilby had publicly denounced the women's UDA over the food parcels, she was not fully aware of Douglas' violent character and the considerable amount of authority she wielded in Sandy Row.\n\nOn 23 July 1974, eight weeks after Ogilby gave birth to a premature son, Derek, fathered by Young, five UDA women, including her lover's wife Elizabeth Young (32), Kathleen Whitla (49, the second-in-command), Josephine Brown (18), Elizabeth Douglas (19), led by the latter's mother, commander Elizabeth \"Lily\" Douglas, abducted Ogilby from a friend's house in the Suffolk housing estate. They took her back to Sandy Row and put her before a kangaroo court held inside the disused Warwick's Bakery in 114 Hunter Street between Felt Street and Oswald Street, which had been converted into a UDA club. Ogilby had often frequented the club with Young on previous occasions prior to his internment; according to Kiely she had enjoyed the company of the other patrons and being part of the camaraderie of loyalists \"against the Fenians\". A total of eight women and two men presided over this \"trial\"; Elizabeth Young, however, had by then absented herself as she was not part of Douglas' \"Heavy Squad\". The \"Heavy Squad\" were the members of the Sandy Row women's UDA unit who meted out punishment beatings by Douglas' orders. Ogilby was grilled for an hour over her affair with Young and regarding her calumnies over the food parcels. At some stage, Douglas told her, \"We have rules here. We all stick to them and I expect anybody new to do the same\". Ogilby, by now frightened at the predicament in which she found herself, was additionally informed that if found guilty, she would be subjected to a \"rompering\". The notorious UDA \"romper rooms\" had been invented in the early 1970s by UDA North Belfast Brigadier Davy Payne. Named after the children's television programme, these \"romper rooms\" were located inside vacant buildings, warehouses, lock-up garages, and rooms above pubs and drinking clubs. Once inside, a victim would be \"rompered\" (beaten and tortured) before being killed. Although most of the victims were Catholics, many Protestants were also consigned to the \"romper rooms\".\n\nDespite the UDA women having found Ogilby guilty, the two UDA men present at the \"trial\" couldn't reach a verdict and gave orders that she be released. The women drove her to the Glengall Street bus station where she got on a bus headed for the YWCA hostel she had moved to on the Malone Road. The women then \"rearrested\" her. It was alleged that this decision came about after she sarcastically remarked in reference to Douglas, \"Who does she think she is? The Queen?\" which had freshly infuriated Douglas and the others. Blocking the bus as it pulled out of the station into the street, Douglas and her \"Heavy Squad\" then boarded the bus and dragged her off into the waiting car for a further grilling. Minutes later, after being alerted by the bus station staff, the car was stopped by the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC). Although Douglas claimed they were on their way to a party, the querying policeman told the women about the report of one of them having been forced off the bus. In an attempt to mollify Douglas, Ogilby then spoke up admitting that she was the person who had been removed from the bus but that \"It was nothing. Just a couple of us fooling around\". The police however remained unconvinced of their claims and the eight women and Ogilby were taken into the RUC Queen Street station for questioning. All of the women were asked for their names and addresses; the majority lived in the Sandy Row area. Fearing the grisly fate that typically befell informers, Ogilby did not say anything to the RUC about the UDA kangaroo court or threats against her. Therefore, she and the eight other women were released without being charged the following morning at 2.00 a.m. Ogilby returned to the police station a few hours later, visibly frightened, but was sent home in a taxi after refusing to give the reason for her distress. That same day inside a Sandy Row pub, Douglas told the other women that Ogilby was a troublemaker who had to die, and she speedily made arrangements to facilitate the murder.\n\nThat same Wednesday 24 July 1974 at 3:30 pm, outside the Social Services office in Shaftesbury Square, Ogilby and her daughter were kidnapped by 25-year-old UDA man Albert \"Bumper\" Graham, while members of Elizabeth \"Lily\" Douglas' \"Heavy Squad\" waited at the nearby Regency Hotel lounge bar overlooking the office. They knew beforehand that Ogilby had an appointment that afternoon at the Shaftesbury Square office. Using the pretext that a UDA commander wished to speak with her, Graham was able to abduct Ogilby and her daughter Sharlene as they left the office; Ogilby, taken in by Graham's words, willingly got into his blue minibus. Having made a pre-arranged signal to the watching women, Graham drove the two females away to the UDA club in Hunter Street, Sandy Row, which had been turned into a \"romper room\". When the UDA women, led by Douglas, arrived on the scene, Ogilby tried to escape, but was grabbed and forcibly detained. After Graham sent Sharlene to a corner shop to buy sweets, Ogilby was ordered by Douglas to be dragged inside the former bakery and forced upstairs to the first floor where she was made to sit on a wooden bench, blindfolded and a hood placed over her head. By this stage, Ogilby was so intimidated and terrorised by the \"Heavy Squad\", she no longer put up any resistance. \"Sunday Life\" newspaper suggested that she was bound to a chair instead of a bench. Ciarán Barnes, a journalist writing for the paper, had conducted an interview with Sharlene Ogilby in 2010. Retired RUC detective, Alan Simpson, who devoted a chapter to the Ann Ogilby murder in his 1999 book \"Murder Madness: True Crimes of The Troubles\", instead affirmed that Ogilby was forced by her captors to sit on a wooden bench. Although hooded and blindfolded, her hands remained untied.\n\nActing under earlier instructions by Douglas, who had remained downstairs, to give Ogilby a \"good rompering\", two members of the \"Heavy Squad\", teenagers Henrietta Piper Cowan (17) and Christine Smith (16), both of whom were wearing masks, proceeded to attack Ogilby. Cowan punched her forcefully in the face, knocking her to the floor. Ogilby was then kicked in the face, head, and stomach by both girls before blows from sticks were rained down upon her. When the two teenagers began battering Ogilby's face and head with bricks, Albert Graham and \"Heavy Squad\" member Josephine Brown (who was also masked), saw Ogilby's blood staining the hood and realising things had gone too far, started to panic and remonstrated with the girls to discontinue the beating. Cowan and Smith did stop, to smoke cigarettes and make plans to attend a disco that evening. Simpson suggested that during the attack, Ogilby had placed her hands inside the hood in a futile attempt to protect her face from the force of the bricks.\n\nMeanwhile, Ogilby's daughter, Sharlene, had returned from the shops; she entered the club, climbed the stairs to the first floor and began banging on the door and crying for her mother. Although by this stage Ogilby had sustained severe head injuries from the brutal assault, Sharlene heard her screaming and pleading with her assailants for mercy while they danced to blaring disco music. Ignoring the injured woman's pleas for her life and Sharlene's cries, Henrietta Cowan, once again wielding a brick, resumed beating Ogilby on the head with renewed vigour until she lay dead on the floor. The beating session had lasted for over an hour. Ogilby received (according to the later autopsy report) a total of 24 blows to the head and body with a blunt object, 14 of which had caused \"a severe fracture to the bulk of the skull\".\n\nAlbert Graham took Sharlene out of the building and drove her back to the YWCA hostel; as he left her on the doorstep he reassured the little girl that her mother was inside waiting for her. Sharlene was looked after by the hostel staff until she was placed in the care of the Social Services. Back at the UDA club, Cowan removed the bloodstained hood and saw by her appalling head wounds and badly-bruised, disfigured face that Ann Ogilby was obviously dead; the body was then wrapped up in a brown sack and carried downstairs. The killers went to have a drink with Elizabeth \"Lily\" Douglas to whom they recounted the details of the fatal beating as she had remained on the ground floor the entire time. Afterwards, Cowan and Smith got dressed up and went out to the disco as planned.\n\nDouglas arranged for the body's disposal and unnamed UDA men later loaded it onto a van and dumped it in a ditch in Stockman's Lane near the M1 motorway. It was discovered five days later on 29 July by motorway maintenance men. The RUC were immediately called to the scene which was then photographed and mapped. Ogilby, clad in a red jumper, grey trousers and wearing just one shoe, was lying on her back partly submerged in 18 inches of stagnant water with her blackened and battered face visible and her arms outstretched. Her missing shoe and a large brown sack were discovered not far away from her body at the top of the ditch. There were no identifying documents found on her. The press, along with local television and radio news bulletins, released details regarding her physical appearance and the distinctive rings on her fingers. Hours later, a social worker from the Shaftesbury Square Social Services office, who had been scheduled to meet with Ann Ogilby on 24 July, contacted the RUC telling them that Ogilby and her daughter Sharlene had arrived at the office late for the appointment but left without explanation before the social worker could speak with Ann. She informed the RUC that Ogilby had not been seen since that afternoon. The social worker was then taken to the mortuary where she confirmed that the dead woman inside was Ann Ogilby. One of Ogilby's brothers later positively identified her. The police were told Sharlene was in the care of Social Services.\n\nDue to the location of the body, the murder investigation was allocated to the RUC B Division (West Belfast), based at the Springfield Road station where CID Detective Alan Simpson served. He formed part of the CID team set up to investigate the Ogilby killing. After Sharlene was located in a children's home, she was interviewed by a female detective; she clearly remembered the events of 24 July. It was arranged for Sharlene to accompany three CID detectives in a car to Sandy Row and she was able to direct them to the disused bakery in Hunter Street. A Scenes of Crime Officer was sent to the scene to examine the building's interior and collect the evidence. Forensics later showed that the bloodstains police detectives found on the floor and on the items retrieved from inside the UDA club matched Ogilby's blood group. Documents were also found on the premises bearing William Young's name. By that time the suspects had already been rounded up and taken in for interrogation. These were the eight women who had been inside the car with Ogilby on the evening of 23 July following the fracas outside the Glengall Street bus station.\nOgilby, aged 31 or 32 at the time of her death, was buried in Umgall Cemetery, Templepatrick, County Antrim. Her children Sharlene and Derek were put into care. The Ogilby family received only £149 compensation from the State to cover her funeral expenses. It was later revealed that Ogilby had planned to relocate to Edinburgh, Scotland as soon as her infant son, Derek, was released from hospital (on account of his premature birth).\n\nOgilby's murder caused widespread revulsion and shock throughout Northern Ireland, even though it had taken place during the most turbulent period of the Troubles when bombings and sectarian killings had become commonplace. Protestants were especially appalled that Ogilby, herself a Protestant, had become a victim of loyalist violence and angrily denounced the UDA. Journalist Ciarán Barnes described it as being one of the most brutal murders of the Troubles; adding that its sheer savagery and the fact that it was carried out by women against another woman within earshot of her child left a lasting impression upon the public psyche. The UDA leadership had not sanctioned the killing; and there was general condemnation from the UDA prisoners inside the Maze Prison. According to Ian S. Wood, the UDA's commander Andy Tyrie had not sufficient control over the many units that comprised the UDA to have been able to prevent the punishment beating from being carried out. A spokesman for the UDA released a statement condemning the killing and the women's unit that carried it out which was first published in the \"Irish Times\" on 8 February 1975:\n\nWe have completely disowned them [Sandy Row women's UDA]. We think the whole affair was foul and sickening. Ogilby was cleared by the UDA of an allegation about her private life long before she was killed. The killing was an act of jealousy by a group of women.\n\nFollowing the Ogilby attack, the Sandy Row women's UDA unit was permanently disbanded by the UDA leadership. None of the other UDA women's units had consented to or been aware of the fatal punishment beating until it was reported in the news. Additionally, the Sandy Row women's unit notwithstanding, UDA \"romper rooms\" were more commonly used by male members of the organisation than by their female counterparts.\nJournalists Henry McDonald and Jim Cusack described Ogilby's death as typical of the \"brutish ... culture\" that dominated the UDA and other paramilitary groups in Northern Ireland. In reference to this attack and other cases of \"rompering\", the authors argue that \"rape and the beating and humiliation of women in working-class Belfast was as routine as gunfire but was subsumed in the maelstrom of violence engulfing the North\".\n\nWithin weeks of the killing, the RUC had arrested ten women and one man in connection with the murder; this group contained Douglas' entire \"Heavy Squad\". Most of the women were unemployed and at least three had male relatives imprisoned for paramilitary offences. On 6 February 1975 at the Belfast City Commission, teenagers Henrietta Cowan and Christine Smith pleaded guilty to murder. They were now aged 18 and 17 respectively. Characterised as having been \"without feeling or remorse\", they were convicted of carrying out the murder and sentenced to be detained at Armagh Women's Prison for life at the pleasure of the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. Smith was not the only member of her family to be involved in loyalist paramilitary activity. Her elder brother, prominent South Belfast UDA member Francis \"Hatchet\" Smith (28), was shot dead in Rodney Parade, off Donegall Road, by the IRA in January 1973 after he, as part of a UDA unit, gunned down Peter Watterson, a 15-year-old Catholic boy, in a drive-by sectarian shooting at the Falls Road/Donegall Road junction. A roofer by trade who was married with one child he was (despite his wife having been Catholic), the local UDA commander in the Village area where he lived.\n\nDescribed to the court as the leader of the Sandy Row women's UDA unit, Elizabeth \"Lily\" Douglas who had ordered the fatal punishment beating, pleaded guilty to manslaughter. The charge of murder was withdrawn on the grounds that she had not actually intended for her \"Heavy Squad\" to kill Ogilby and she was subsequently sentenced to ten years' imprisonment in Armagh Prison. She received two further sentences (which were to run concurrently with her 10 years) of three years each, for intimidation and detaining Ogilby against her will. The exact motive for the murder was not established in court. During police interrogation, Douglas maintained that Ogilby's killing was the result of a personal vendetta, stating \"It was not a UDA operation, they had nothing to do with it. It was just a move between a lot of women, a personal thing\". In his book \"The Protestants of Ulster\" which was published in 1976, Geoffrey Bell stated that the women murdered her as punishment for her affair with William Young. Henry McDonald and Jim Cusack suggested that jealousy and bloodlust were the motives for the murder. The others received lesser sentences: Albert Graham and Josephine Brown, after pleading guilty, were sentenced to three years imprisonment on charges of being accessories after the fact and causing grievous bodily harm to Ann Ogilby; the Crown withdrew the murder charge against the pair after recognising their attempt to prevent Cowan and Smith from continuing with the fatal beating. The unit's second-in-command, Kathleen Whitla was given two years for intimidation; Maud Tait (21), Anne Gracey (28), Elizabeth Douglas, Jr (19) and Marie Lendrum (23), were all sentenced to 18 months imprisonment for intimidation, and an unnamed 16-year-old was given an 18-months suspended sentence for intimidation. The convictions resulted in the largest single ingress of loyalist women into a Northern Ireland prison.\n\nDenouncing the UDA, the trial judge, Mr. Justice McGonigle stated, \"What appears before me today under the name of the UDA is gun law, a vicious, brutalising organisation of persons who take the law into their own hands and who, by kangaroo courts and the infliction of physical brutality, terrorise a neighbourhood through intimidation\". During the trial, it emerged that plans to kill Ogilby had been formulated by the UDA unit several months before her kangaroo court \"trial\". Eluzabeth \"Lily\" Douglas was lambasted by Justice McGonigle, \"You ordered and directed the punishment of this girl. You chose and chose well those who were to carry out your directions. When you heard what had happened you organised the cover-up and disposal of the body. Your concern was that these happenings should not come to light. You were the commander of these women; your responsibility was great. You are no stranger to crime. You have a record of smuggling, forgery, assault and actual bodily harm and aiding and abetting the keeping of a brothel. Though the last of these was in 1961 it is an indication of your character.\" The Northern Irish press dubbed Elizabeth \"Lily\" Douglas \"the Sandy Row executioner\".\n\nSharlene Ogilby later married and has three children of her own. After her mother's murder, she was taken to live in Sion Mills by an uncle and aunt. For a while she kept in touch with her brother Gary but has since lost contact; she has no knowledge of what happened to her other brothers Stephen and Derek. Elizabeth \"Lily\" Douglas died shortly after being released from Armagh Prison on compassionate grounds in 1979; Kathleen Whitla is also deceased. Henrietta Cowan and Christine Smith were both released from Armagh in December 1983 after serving nine years. They returned to the Sandy Row area. Loyalist sources claimed Smith \"deeply regretted\" the part she played in Ogilby's murder. Graham, following his release from prison, also returned to south Belfast. To the present day he has steadfastly refused to discuss the murder. The rest of the women involved in Ogilby's murder are to date living in Sandy Row or the Village. William Young died in 2007.\n\nThe disused bakery in Hunter Street has since been demolished.\n\nBelfast poet Linda Anderson wrote a poem, \"Gang-Bang Ulster Style\", based on the Ogilby killing. It was published in the August 1989, no. 204 edition of \"Spare Rib\". Ann Ogilby's murder also featured in a Gavin Ewart poem entitled, \"The Gentle Sex\" (1974). The murder was investigated by the Historical Enquiries Team (HET), which was established by the PSNI to inquire into the most controversial killings perpetrated during the Troubles.\n\n"}
{"id": "44426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44426", "title": "National Security Act of 1947", "text": "National Security Act of 1947\n\nThe National Security Act of 1947 was a major restructuring of the United States government's military and intelligence agencies following World War II. The majority of the provisions of the Act took effect on September 18, 1947, the day after the Senate confirmed James Forrestal as the first Secretary of Defense.\n\nThe Act merged the Department of War (renamed as the Department of the Army) and the Department of the Navy into the National Military Establishment (NME), headed by the Secretary of Defense. It also created the Department of the Air Force and the United States Air Force, which separated the Army Air Forces into its own service. It also protected the Marine Corps as an independent service, under the Department of the Navy. \n\nAside from the military reorganization, the act established the National Security Council and the Central Intelligence Agency, the U.S.'s first peacetime non-military intelligence agency.\n\nThe National Security Act of 1947 was a major restructuring of the United States government's military and intelligence agencies following World War II. The act and its changes, along with the Truman Doctrine and the Marshall Plan, were major components of the Truman administration's Cold War strategy. The bill signing took place aboard Truman's VC-54C presidential aircraft \"Sacred Cow\", the first aircraft used for the role of Air Force One.\n\nThe majority of the provisions of the Act took effect on September 18, 1947, the day after the Senate confirmed James Forrestal as the first Secretary of Defense. His power was initially limited and it was difficult for him to exercise the authority to make his office effective. This was later changed in the amendment to the act in 1949, creating what was to be the Department of Defense.\n\nThe Act merged the Department of War (renamed as the Department of the Army) and the Department of the Navy into the National Military Establishment (NME), headed by the Secretary of Defense. It also created the Department of the Air Force, which separated the Army Air Forces into its own service. It also protected the Marine Corps as an independent service, under the Department of the Navy. Initially, each of the three service secretaries maintained quasi-cabinet status, but the act was amended on August 10, 1949, to ensure their subordination to the Secretary of Defense. At the same time, the NME was renamed as the Department of Defense. The purpose was to unify the Army, Navy, and Air Force into a federated structure. The Joint Chiefs of Staff was officially established under Title II, Section 211 of the original National Security Act of 1947 before Sections 209–214 of Title II were repealed by the law enacting Title 10 and Title 32, United States Code (Act of August 10, 1956, 70A Stat. 676) to replace them.\n\nAside from the military reorganization, the act established the National Security Council, a central place of coordination for national security policy in the executive branch, and the Central Intelligence Agency, the U.S.'s first peacetime intelligence agency. The council's function was to advise the president on domestic, foreign, and military policies, and to ensure cooperation between the various military and intelligence agencies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41785313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41785313", "title": "Peace, Retrenchment and Reform", "text": "Peace, Retrenchment and Reform\n\nPeace, Retrenchment and Reform was a political slogan used in early-19th-century British politics by Whigs, Radicals and Liberals.\n\nThe historian R. B. McCallum in his history of the Liberal Party defined the meaning of the slogan:\n\nThe critical, conscience-searching attitude to foreign and imperial affairs, the willingness to see the right triumph over national sentiment... was sheer idealism, the belief that war was wrong and that in the new world of great inventions and world-wide trade civilised nations should not require to settle difference by war... Retrenchment... meant the saving of the resources of the individual from the grasp of the state taxation system. It was held as a general truth that wealth left in the hands of private persons would be more fruitfully used than if used by the state...[Liberals] had most vigorously attacked sinecures and abuses; it was they who had established free trade which seemed the best guarantee of economic development and it was they who more than any others discouraged expense on armaments, the most wasteful and unproductive of all expenditure... Reform... had a particular and narrower use as meaning reform of the franchise... More broadly it meant improvement in the method and art of government and the removal of any restriction or disqualification that fell on any particular class or sect.\n\nIn 1794, the Radical Daniel Stuart published his pamphlet \"Peace and Reform, Against War and Corruption\" and in 1796, the Whig George Tierney stood for election a platform of \"Peace and Reform\". The relentless campaign by the Radical MP Joseph Hume against what he considered wasteful and extravagant government expenditure in the 1820s caused the word \"retrenchment\" to be added to \"peace and reform\". The Whig government of Earl Grey was elected to office on the slogan \"Peace, Retrenchment and Reform\" in 1830. The Liberals under William Ewart Gladstone won the 1880 general election on the slogan, as did the Liberals under Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman in 1906.\n\nThe Radical MP John Bright said in 1859, \"I am for 'Peace, retrenchment, and reform', the watchword of the great Liberal party 30 years ago. Whosoever may abandon the cause I shall never pronounce another Shibboleth, but as long as the old flag floats in the air I shall be found a steadfast soldier in the foremost ranks\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23863484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23863484", "title": "Physical security information management", "text": "Physical security information management\n\nPhysical security information management (PSIM) is a category of software that provides a platform and applications created by middleware developers, designed to integrate multiple unconnected security applications and devices and control them through one comprehensive user interface. It collects and correlates events from existing disparate security devices and information systems (video, access control, sensors, analytics, networks, building systems, etc.) to empower personnel to identify and proactively resolve situations. PSIM integration enables numerous organizational benefits, including increased control, improved situation awareness and management reporting. \nUltimately, these solutions allow organizations to reduce costs through improved efficiency and to improve security through increased intelligence.\n\nA complete PSIM software system has six key capabilities: \n\nA key differential between PSIM based integration and other forms of physical security system integration is the ability for a PSIM platform to connect systems at a data level, contrasting other forms of integration which interface a limited number of products. PSIM allows use of open technologies which are compatible with a large number of manufacturers. These PSIM products offer more opportunities for expansion and can reduce implementation costs through greater use of existing equipment. \nPSIM solutions in general are deployed to centralize information to single or multiple control hubs. These are referred to as control rooms or command and control centres (CCC, C4I, etc.).\nTo be connected with other technologies, is an important feature of any basic PSIM as is the capability to integrate with Open Industry Standards such as (PSIA, ONVIF, ODBC, etc.)\n\nSecurity systems typically integrated into a PSIM solution include:\n\nPSIM solutions manage all of the data produced by the various security applications (where the security application manufacturers API or SDK allows), and aggregates them to produce meaningful intelligence. This in turn is converted to create graphical situation management content; combining relevant visual intelligence, workflow based on on-screen guidance and automated tasks (also referred to as a Common Operating Interface). This is used for both event management and for day to day security operations. Some of the more advanced PSIM products offer dynamic guidance, which can be changed according to the perceived threat level. This threat level is governed by both external intelligence, such as DHS advice and internal intelligence, such as the number of attempted breaches. This level of dynamic guidance again relies on the level of integration achieved with any given manufacturers API or SDK.\n\nPSIM solutions can be found in a wide range of industry and government sectors across the globe. The following are industries where PSIM deployments can be found;\n\n\nExamples of PSIM deployments:\n\nA key reason for the increased deployment of this technology has been its ability to bridge the gap between the security and information technology functions within organisations. Security applications and devices have until very recently been only available on proprietary technologies, which reduce the ability to use multiple vendors and have created vendor lock in pricing strategies. This opposes IT standards, where plug and play technology has allowed a greater choice of hardware and has helped reduce hardware costs. PSIM enables a greater degree of this type of interoperability, and comes at a time when security applications and devices are moving from analogue to network based connectivity. The combined effect has seen PSIM solutions score highly with IT departments globally, especially those that are database independent and simple to update with new devices and users.\n\nThe function of security departments has traditionally been to secure people and buildings, and has been slow to absorb new technology, relying more on manned guards and physical barriers. As Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) evolves to address all security and legislative risks across all stakeholders, physical security departments have come under increased scrutiny. \nNumerous examples of physical security breaches leading to major organizational losses, both in terms of assets and brand damage have led to physical security reporting to board level. Globally, new roles have been created within large organizations where Chief Information Security Officers (CISO), have responsibility for ERM, including physical security. Subsequently, management reporting, policy compliance and KPIs have entered the physical security function, requiring more efficient working practices and monitoring tools. Again PSIM software addresses these organizational requirements, and is therefore being stipulated by CISOs.\n\nNov 2016 – According to a report from Transparency Market Research, the physical security information management market will expand at a remarkable 18.7% CAGR over the period between 2016 and 2024. As a result, the market, which had a valuation of US$823.1 mn in 2015, will rise to US$3,832.6 mn by 2024.\n\nJun 2016 – According to a report from Technavio, the global physical security information management (PSIM) market is expected to reach close to USD 22 billion by 2020 and will post a CAGR of close to 15% over the forecast period.\n\nAug 2015 – According to a new report from marketsandmarkets.com the Global Physical Security Market is estimated to be USD 65.41 Billion in 2015 and is expected to reach USD 105.26 Billion by 2020, at a CAGR 9.98% from 2015 to 2020.\n\nFeb 2015 – Reports from TechNavio forecast that \n1. PSIM Market in North America Will Post a CAGR of 7.22 Percent from 2014 to 2019.\n2. PSIM market in the EMEA region to grow at a CAGR of 16.7 percent over the period 2014-2019.\n\nMay 2014 – A new report from TechNavio looks at the growth prospects of the PSIM market in the APAC region. TechNavio's analysts forecast the PSIM market in the APAC region will grow at a CAGR of 42.15 percent over the period 2013-2018.\n\nApr 2014 – A report recently published by IHS reveals that the worldwide market for PSIM (Physical Security Information Management) is estimated to have been worth $160.3 million in 2013 and highlights some the challenges that PSIM Software vendors face in protecting and growing their respective market share.\n\nApr 2014 – New analysis from Frost & Sullivan, Global Physical Security Information Management Market Assessment, finds that the market earned revenues of $195.7 million in 2013 and estimates this to rocket up to $835.6 million in 2022. The study covers the application segments of mass transport, commercial, safe cities and first responders, government, oil and gas, utilities, and border and maritime. Safe cities and first responders, mass transport, and commercial are currently the key revenue-generating segments.\n\nJan 2014 – According to a new market report published by Transparency Market Research \"Physical Security (Hardware, Software and Services) Market – Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends and Forecast, 2013–2019,\" the global physical security market is expected to reach a value of USD 125.03 billion by 2019, growing at a CAGR of 14.9% from 2013 to 2019.\n\nDec 2012 - According to the Frost & Sullivan Analysis Worldwide Physical Security Information Management Market Report the worldwide physical security information management (PSIM) market is expected to grow from $80.0 million in 2009 to $544.0 million in 2015, with a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 37.6%.\nThere is a mix of companies which are either very strong in “pure” PSIM solutions and others that are adding functionalities to\na basic video management system (VMS)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53873209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53873209", "title": "Police legitimacy", "text": "Police legitimacy\n\nPolice legitimacy is the extent to which members of the public view the police as legitimate, often measured in terms of the public's willingness to obey and cooperate with the police. Police legitimacy is linked to the degree of public support for, and cooperation with, the police's efforts to fight crime. If police lose their legitimacy, it can compromise their ability and authority to work effectively. \n\nPeople who experience more procedural justice in police encounters view the police as more legitimate. In contrast, order maintenance policing and widespread street stops appear to reduce police legitimacy among young men.\n"}
{"id": "38069077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38069077", "title": "Repression of communists in the Kingdom of Romania", "text": "Repression of communists in the Kingdom of Romania\n\nThe Repression of communists in the Kingdom of Romania was political repression against people who held communist views in the Kingdom of Romania between 1921 and 1944. In 1921, a number of 271 members of the Socialist-Communist Party who voted for the affiliation of the party into the Third International were arrested and the following year they were tried and convicted by a military court to various terms of forced labour. \n\nThe 1924 Mârzescu Law banned the Romanian Communist Party and provided the death penalty for communist agitators, forcing the party to go underground for the following decades. Members of the Communist Party were routinely arrested by the police and Siguranța, the secret police. During this period, most leaders of the Communist Party were either in exile in the Soviet Union (the Moscow wing) or in prison (known as the prison wing).\n\nIn May 1921, as the members of the Socialist-Communist Party voted on the inclusion of the party into the Third International, the authorities stormed the assembly hall and arrested 271 members of the party. They were held for eight months, during which they were held in very tough conditions, some of them being tortured. In 1922, they were joined with anarchist Max Goldstein in a trial by military court in which they faced the charges of crimes against the state security, terrorism, collaboration with the enemy and instigation to riot. A number of politicians and intellectuals, including historian Nicolae Iorga, Dem I. Dobrescu and Iuliu Maniu voiced their discontent over the lack of constitutional basis for the trial.\n\nAll but 37 of the prisoners were found guilty and sentenced between one month in prison and 10 months of forced labour. Goldstein was sentenced to forced labour for life. With the exception of Goldstein, the communists were pardoned June 1922 by King Ferdinand I.\n\nThe 1924 Mârzescu Law banned the Romanian Communist Party and made communist agitation punishable by death, despite the fact that the 1923 Constitution of Romania banned death penalty during peacetime. The official reason given for the banning of the party was disloyalty to the state and lack of patriotism, as it supported the territorial claims of the Soviet Union. \n\nThe ban was followed with a wave of arrests: approximately 600 communists being arrested, including many of its leaders. They were held in the Doftana prison, which was notoriously one of the harshest prisons in Europe, according to contemporary human rights and civic rights organizations. Only after mid-1930s, when the prisoners gained the status of \"political prisoner\", the conditions improved and the inmates were allowed to have access to books.\n\nThe ban and repression took their toll on the Communist Party and by 1944, after two decades of underground activity, the party had only about 1000 members. Historian Lucian Boia argues that if the party were legal, the number of \"visible\" communists would have been certainly greater, as there was a significant number of intellectuals with left-wing views.\n\nIn July 1935, 19 communists were arrested, including leaders such as Ana Pauker and accused of \"activity against the Romanian state\" and disturbing the peace. Their trial was originally supposed to be held in Bucharest, but following large pro-communist rallies in the city, the authorities decided to hold it in some heavily guarded barracks 7 km outside the city of Craiova. The widely publicized trial ended with the conviction of Ana Pauker and other communist leaders to 20 years in prison, while the rest of the defendants to between 4 and 9 years in prison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "697907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=697907", "title": "Royalty trust", "text": "Royalty trust\n\nA royalty trust is a type of corporation, mostly in the United States or Canada, usually involved in oil and gas production or mining. However, unlike most corporations, its profits are not taxed at the corporate level provided a certain high percentage (e.g. 90%) of profits are distributed to shareholders as dividends. The dividends are then taxed as personal income. This system, similar to real estate investment trusts, effectively avoids the double taxation of corporate income.\n\nRoyalty trusts typically own oil or natural gas wells, the mineral rights of wells, or mineral rights on other types of properties. An outside company must perform the actual operation of the oil or gas field, or mine, and the trust itself, in the United States, may have no employees. Shares of the trust generally trade on the public stock markets, but the trust itself is typically overseen by a trust officer in a bank.\n\nThey are a powerful investment tool for people who wish to invest directly in extraction of petroleum or mining of other materials, but who do not have the resources or risk tolerance to buy their own well or mine. Additionally, since trusts often own numerous individual wells, oil fields, or mines, they represent a convenient way for the average investor to diversify investments across a number of properties. Also, since commodities are considered a hedge against inflation, the popularity of royalty trusts as investments rises as interest rates rise, and their shares often rise as a result.\n\nThese trusts often attract investors with their relatively high yields; in 2007, their distributions were often in the 10 to 15 percent annual range. This makes the shares sensitive to interest rates, as share prices are likely to decline in periods of rising interest rates, and to rise when interest rates fall. Additionally, royalty trusts in the United States and Canada usually involve oil and gas fields or mines which are at or past their production peak, and will gradually decline in output as well as revenue; however, the infrastructure to develop them has already been built, so that an investor can expect a reasonably steady income stream.\n\nIn addition to allowing investors to achieve high distribution returns, especially during periods of low interest rates, royalty trusts allow investors to speculate directly on commodities such as gas, oil, or iron ore without having to buy futures contracts, or use the other investment vehicles traditionally associated with commodities—since the trusts trade like stocks. During times when a commodity price is rising, the share value as well as the dividend return of a trust engaging in production of that commodity will rise as well.\n\nRoyalty trusts are found mainly in Canada and the United States; there is also one in Germany. Canadian royalty trusts, called \"Canroys\" or \"CanRoys\", typically trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange, while some of the larger trusts also trade on the New York Stock Exchange. Canroys usually offer higher yields than U.S. trusts; for non-Canadian investors, this higher yield is reduced by the 15% foreign tax withholding that is absent in the U.S. trusts.\n\nThe most significant difference between Canadian and U.S. royalty trusts involves their legal status in their respective countries. In the U.S., trusts are not allowed to acquire additional properties, once they are formed. Since they are restricted to their original properties – for example, a group of oil fields or natural-gas-bearing rock formations—they can be expected to be depleted over time, the royalties they pay out will correspondingly decline, and eventually the trust will be dissolved. In Canada, trusts may be actively managed, and run as businesses. They may have employees, issue new shares, borrow money, acquire additional properties, and may manage the resources themselves.\n\nBell Canada Enterprises corporate unit Yellow Pages Group converted to Yellow Pages Income Fund on June 25, 2003, making it the \"first high-profile conversion to the trust structure.\" Their income fund raised \"$1-billion in the process.\"\n\nAccording to a 2012 article in \"Canadian Energy Law,\"\n\nRichardson argued that by 2012 foreign asset income trusts (FAITs) had revived interest regarding income trusts in Canada. Because FAITs involve assets outside Canadian borders, they are \"not subject to traditional Specified Investment Flow-Through (SIFT) rules.\"\n\nIn 2006 $70 billion of new trust conversions were announced. The largest was proposed in September 2006 when Bell Canada Enterprise BCE announced its intention to convert its Bell Canada subsidiary to a CanRoy trust thereby saving the corporation $800 million in tax by 2008. The royalty trusts were increasingly popular because they do not pay corporate tax, rather they \"pay out most of their income in distributions to unit holders, who then pay tax on those distributions.\" On October 31, 2006 then-Finance Minister Jim Flaherty made his now famous proposal to introduce new rules — later known as Specified Investment Flow-Through(SIFT) rules — nicknamed the \"Halloween Massacre.\" Under Prime Minister Stephen Harper — who was sworn into office February 6, 2006 after winning against the incumbent Paul Martin — the Canadian federal government announced the elimination of the loophole that placed over 250 income trusts at a tax advantage over other corporations. Starting in 2011 \"income trusts, with the exception of those focused on real estate, would be subject to a tax on trust distributions\" at the full 31.5% rate. Existing trusts would have a four-year transition period (2007 to 2011) whereas newer trusts such as the proposed Bell Canada trust would be applicable in 2007. What prompted the move was that the trusts were costing the Canadian government upwards of $500,000,000 each year in lost revenue. Flaherty described the conversion of corporations into royalty trusts as \"a growing trend to corporate tax avoidance\" which was hurting the Canadian economy and defended his response as \"measured.\" If the trend of trusts conversions was not stopped, it was estimated that the Canadian federal and provincial governments would lose \"$1 billion annually in tax revenue.\"\n\nImmediately after the announcement share prices of the trusts dropped. Penn West Exploration. then- Penn West Energy Trust) — still referred to as known as Penn West Petroleum in the media — In an interview in January, 2013 Matt Donohue, an analyst at UBS AG in Calgary, argued that the growth-and-income model was \"bruised\" not \"broken\" with income trusts converting back into a corporate structure. With the increased use of horizontal drilling in the energy industry, energy trust adopt a hybrid policy that promised both \"per-share growth and sustainable income for their shareholders.\" This model is least lucrative in periods of weak commodity prices.\n\nSince the announcement of the Canadian \"Tax Fairness Plan' approximately 90% of Canadian Royalty Trusts (CANROY's) have either converted to corporations, merged with other companies, or simply liquidated. While the Tax Fairness Plan did not require a conversion to corporate status most companies found it beneficial to do so. After conversion most companies were required to slash their dividend payouts to reflect the new level of taxation they would be required to pay.\n\nTexas oilman T. Boone Pickens is often credited with creating the first royalty trust in 1979; however Marine Petroleum Trust (Marps) was created in 1956, twenty three years earlier.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9123965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9123965", "title": "Section 98", "text": "Section 98\n\nSection 98 (s. 98) of the Criminal Code of Canada was a law enacted after the Winnipeg General Strike banning \"unlawful associations.\" It was used in the 1930s against the Communist Party of Canada.\n\nAfter the Winnipeg General Strike of 1919, Arthur Meighen, Minister of Justice in Robert Borden's government, introduced an amendment to the Criminal Code that was passed by Parliament, which read:\nAny association...whose professed purpose...is to bring about any governmental, industrial or economic change within Canada by use of force, violence or physical injury to person or property, or by threats of such injury, or which teaches, advocates, advises or defends the use of force, violence, terrorism, or physical injury to person or property...in order to accomplish such change, or for any other such purpose..., or which shall by any means prosecute or pursue such purpose...or shall so teach, advocate, advise or defend, shall be an unlawful association.\n\nThe law was extremely broad and carried a penalty of up to 20 years in prison. It was used throughout the 1920s and early half of the 1930s to harass Communists, other left parties and organizations, and labour unions generally. The most famous use of Section 98 was in a crackdown designed to \"strike a death blow at the Communist Party.\" The Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the Ontario Provincial Police rounded up eight leaders of the Communist Party on 11 August 1931, who were subsequently convicted under the law and sentenced for up to five-year prison terms. In the years after the conviction, public opinion turned in favour of the Communists and against the law, which was opposed by liberals and moderate leftists as well as far-left organizations like the Canadian Labour Defence League, a Communist legal defence committee. As a result of public opposition, the Communists were released early from jail and the law was repealed in 1936 following the election of Mackenzie King in 1935.\n\nOpposition to Section 98 was an important campaign for crystallizing an early civil rights movement within an otherwise fractured left-wing in Canada. Although the law was repealed, it served as the model for the Defence of Canada Regulations under the War Measures Act to suppress aliens and dissenters during the Second World War and during the October Crisis of 1970.\n"}
{"id": "49510573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49510573", "title": "Serbian historiography", "text": "Serbian historiography\n\nSerbian historiography () refers to the historiography (methodology of history studies) of the Serb people since the founding of Serbian statehood. The development can be divided into four main stages: traditional historiography, Ruvarac's critical school, Communist–Marxist legacy, and the renewed Serbian national movement.\n\nJovan Rajić (1726–1801) was the forerunner to modern Serbian historiography, and has been compared to the importance of Nikolay Karamzin to Russian historiography. The foundations of Serbian ecclesiastical historiography were laid by Bishop Nikodim Milaš (1845–1915). Ilarion Ruvarac (1832–1905) is regarded the founder of the critical school of Serbian historiography. Ruvarac's school clashed with that of Panta Srećković (1834–1903). Serbian historiography was mostly focused on national issues during the Society of Serbian Scholarship and Serbian Learned Society (1841–1886).\n\nSerbian ecclesiastical historiography has coincided with nationalist perspectives contained within secular Serbian historiography. Orthodox Church tradition and early Serbian historiography through folk poetry based upon the Battle of Kosovo assisted in overcoming gaps and linking the old with the then new Serbian state. The nation and religion were closely connected within nationalist Serbian history in the early 19th century. Patriotic historiography viewed the Serbs as liberators from foreign oppression of their South Slavic brothers in the Balkan Wars and World War I. Serbian nationalists claim that in Communist historiography, Serbs were transformed into oppressors, the Chetniks of World War II branded as collaborationist as the Ustaše, and the massacres of Serbs were downplayed. \nIn post-WW2 Yugoslavia, Serbian historians claimed that histories of individual peoples no longer existed after unification in contrast to Slovene and Croat historians who claimed otherwise. From the 1950s onward intellectual activities came less under state control and by the 1960s debates about the Second World reappeared culminating with more works in the 1980s.\n\nThroughout the post war era, though Tito denounced nationalist sentiments in historiography, those trends continued with Croat and Serbian academics at times accusing each other of misrepresenting each other's histories, especially in relation to the Croat-Nazi alliance. Communist historiography was challenged in the 1980s and a rehabilitation of Serbian nationalism by Serbian historians began. Historians and other members of the intelligentsia belonging to the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts (SANU) and the Writers Association played a significant role in the explanation of the new historical narrative. The process of writing a \"new Serbian history\" paralleled alongside the emerging ethno-nationalist mobilisation of Serbs with the objective of reorganising the Yugoslav federation. Four factors and sources that influenced the \"new history\" include:\n\n\nUsing ideas and concepts from Holocaust historiography, Serbian historians alongside church leaders applied it to World War Two Yugoslavia and equated the Serbs with Jews and Croats with Nazi Germans. In relation to World War Two Serb casualties, during the Milošević era Serbian historians and the regime saw it as important to secure support from prominent Yugoslav Jewish individuals and organisations regarding the idea relating to a common Serbian-Jewish martyrdom. As such, a few Yugoslav Jews gave their assistance for the new Serbian historiography. In the 1980s, Serbian historians produced many works about the forced conversion during World War Two of Serbs to Catholicism in Ustaša Croatia. These debates between historians openly became nationalistic and also entered the wider media. Historians in Belgrade during the 1980s who had close government connections often went on television during the evenings to discuss invented or real details about the Ustaša genocide against Serbs during World War Two. These discussions had the effect of being theoretical deductions that served as a precursor for the eventual ethno-demographic engineering that took place in Croatia. During this time some well known Serbian historians such as Vasilije Krestić and Milorad Ekmečić were at the vanguard of the nationalist movement. In 1986, Vasilije Krestić alongside historian Radovan Samardžić were members of a commission that later drafted the \"Memorandum of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts\" which referred to a \"genocide\" being committed against Serbs by Albanians and Croats in Yugoslavia.\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s, the main focus of nationalist history was Kosovo. Serbian academics such as Dušan Bataković obtained generous support for publishing nationalist works which were translated into other languages and other Serbian historians Dimitrije Bogdanović, Radovan Samardžić and Atanasije Urošević also produced similar works on Kosovo. Though some Serb historians did not promote nationalistic views, the practice of history within Serbia has been influenced by limitations placed upon it from state-sponsored nationalism. The focus of research for Serbian historians has been restricted to the Serbian experience of life under \"the Turks\" and only a few Serb historians can read Ottoman documents. As such, Hapsburg documents have been used though Serbian historians sideline the corpus of local and important evidence based in Ottoman documents when compiling national history.\n\nWorks from Serbian historians and ethnographers that were academically obsolete and politically biased aiming to justify Serb expansionism were republished a century later with some works going for a second edition in the 1990s. These works were praised by Serb historians because they viewed them as almost being primary sources due to their archaic style and closeness to the described events and hence promoted their republishing during the 1990s. Whereas the works and ideas of these 19th and early 20th century nationalistically oriented Serbian historians were expanded upon by writers on the Serbian literary scene during the 1990s. When the wars broke out during the 1990s, most Serbian historians focused on suffering that Serbs had undergone in previous conflicts to emphasize past Serbian victimisation, ethnic cleansing of Serbs and sexual assaults against Serbian women. Serbian historians defended the actions of the regime during the dissolution of Yugoslavia.\n\nFew Serbian scholars have critically engaged with literature of Serbian historiography that is based heavily on myth. Of those that have include historian Miodrag Popović who stated that Serbian history in the Ottoman Empire is separate from myths contained in Serbian folk poetry. Popović added that myths about the \"Turkish yoke\" and \"slavery under the Turks\" were a product of later times meant to mobilize Serbians during the nation-state building process which is why the myth contains so much anti-Islamic and anti-Turkish views. Serbian historiography in contemporary times still remains politically sensitive. The fall of the Milošević regime (2000) heralded divisions within the intelligentsia about coming to terms with the recent wartime past and moral responsibility in Serbia. Amongst liberal historians their efforts have been concentrated on refuting nationalist discourses prominent in media and public views and the failure of embracing modernity by Serbian society. Their views about the dissolution of Yugoslavia are based upon the wider polarization and mass debate contained in Serbian public debate regarding the past and as replies to nationalist discourses of historians affiliated with the nationalist-patriotic group.\n\nSerbian historiography (19th century - present) has through its historians developed various histriographical positions, views and conclusions on subjects and topics that relates to the study of Serbian history and the Serb people. Of those are:\n\nIn Serbian historiography there is a divergence of positions regarding Byzantine cultural influence on Serbia with some Serbian historians supporting the view that there was and others seeing it as being minimal. Serbian historians have contended that Vlachs in Dalmatia during the early Middle Ages were thoroughly Slavonicised and hence to be really Serbs. The rivalry between Prince Branimir (ruled 879–887) who chose (Catholic) Rome over (Orthodox) Constantinople and Duke Sedeslav (ruled 878–879) who favoured Constantinople ended in execution of the latter by the former. In Serbian church historiography, Sedeslav is viewed as a martyr of the Orthodox church and Branimir's rise to power is interpreted as disastrous that divided two Slavic peoples who both until that time leaned toward the Orthodox church. King Zvonimir (ruled 1075–1089) a figure who consolidated Catholicism and rejected Orthodoxy in Croatia is viewed by Serbian Church historians as an enemy of the Orthodox Christian religion. Serbian historians contend that the medieval Bosnian Church was part of the Orthodox church and not heretical.\n\nSerbian historiography emphasizes an Orthodox Serbian origin for the Bosniaks who are interpreted as relinquishing ties to that ethno-religious heritage after converting to Islam and later denying it by refusing to accept a Serbian identity. While the battle of Kosovo (1389) against Muslim Ottoman forces has been taken out of its context within Serbian historiography. That event has been utilized by placing it within the wider Serbian political objective of vilifying Bosnian Muslims by associating their conversion to Islam with the identity of the Ottoman invader. Bosnian Muslims within the bulk of Serbian nationalist historiography are presented as the descendants of the mentally ill, lazy, slaves, greedy landlords, prisoners, thieves, outcasts or as Serbs who confused and defeated chose to follow their enemies religion. Serbian historiography mythologized the emergence of Islam within the Balkans as the outcome of coercion and the devşirme system instead of it being a genuine and complex phenomenon. \n\nSerbian history often emphasizes that the Patriarchate of Peć was reestablished (1557) by Sokollu Mehmed Pasha, a grand vizier from Bosnia who by origin was of Orthodox Christian heritage and thus claimed as a Serb in Serbian history, while a relative of his became the first patriarch. In some Serbian historiography, the Orthodox clergy is ascribed as having played a leading military and ideological role during the First Serbian Uprising (1804–1813). Adopting mainly the perspective of Eastern European traditions, Serbian historiography views the national struggle as having been attained through liberation from what has been referred to as \"five centuries of\" the \"Turkish yoke\". Serbian historiography views the Serbs as being at the vanguard of protecting Balkan Christians. The \"Mountain Wreath\", a 19th-century poem written by Petar Petrović Njegoš containing a narrative about Slavic Muslims refusing to revert to Christianity followed up with their massacre is viewed within Serbian historiography as part of the ideology of national liberation from Ottoman rule. Critical Serbian historiography views the event to be mythical as Montenegrin tribal customs did not allow for fellow clan members to be killed.\n\nFrom the first Serbian Uprising (1804) onward, Serb historians have viewed the Balkans as a region of perpetual ethnic conflicts of whom Balkan peoples have been anti-Serb for centuries. Within Serbian historiography, \"minority\" groups have been portrayed as unreliable with \"natural\" tendencies for rebellion, treachery and deceit. Within Serbian historiography references to Muslim treachery and Albanian irredentism were made that coincided with new campaigns to expel people from Macedonia and Kosovo to Turkey.\n\nSerbian historiography holds the view that Russians and Serbs have a special relationship expressed through Slavophilism and pan-Slavism and that both peoples are part of a larger Slavic \"brotherhood\". In the early 20th century, Serbian historiography in geography textbooks had a tendency to serving the political goal of Greater Serbia by viewing the bulk of Balkan Slavic lands as inhabited by Serbs, until the Yugoslav idea gradually shifted those views. Patriotic Serbian historiography portrays the Serbs during the Balkan Wars (1912–1913) and World War One (1914–1918) as liberating fellow South Slavs from foreign oppressors. Serbian historians have viewed the Balkan wars (1912–1913) as mainly a Serbian event of state expansion. Regarding the post-World War One unification of Montenegro with Serbia, Serbian alongside Montenegrin historians attempted to critically analyze the events though were hampered by political concerns and ideological bias of the Yugoslav era. Only in recent times have a few Serbian and Montenegrin historians with less ideological baggage attempted to engage with the events. Serbian historians assert that during the period of the Balkan Wars, a Macedonian nation was nonexistent and that local Slavs were either Serbian or Bulgarian.\n\nThe assassin Gavrilo Princip who in Sarajevo (1914) killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand is viewed by Serbian historians as a Serbian hero. A majority of Serbian historians view Austria-Hungary and Germany (Central Powers) as instigating the First World War while the actions of \"Mlada Bosna\" are presented as being autonomous and not dependent on Serbian government circles. The role of the Russian Empire and the position it took on the eve of war is portrayed favorably within Serbian historiography.\n\nSome Serbian historians are of the view that the ideology of Yugoslavism and the creation of the banovinas diminished Serbian identity. Others Serbian historians have suggested the opposite in that the banovinas strengthened Yugoslavia by making Serbs the dominant group within 6 of them. The actions of Serbs within interwar Yugoslavia are portrayed in nationalist Serbian historiography as defensive and to safeguard the state from Croatian secessionism that is blamed for state's unstable interwar parliamentary system.\n\nChetniks along with the Ustaša were vilified by Tito era historiography within Yugoslavia. In the 1980s, Serbian historians initiated the process of reexamining the narrative of how World War Two was told in Yugoslavia which was accompanied by the rehabilitation of Chetnik leader Draža Mihailović. Monographs relating to Mihailović and the Chetnik movement were produced by some younger historians who were ideologically close to it toward the end of the 1990s. Being preoccupied with the era, Serbian historians have looked to vindicate Chetnik history by portraying Chetniks as righteous freedom fighters battling the Nazis while removing from history books the ambiguous alliances with the Italians and Germans. Whereas the crimes committed by Chetniks against Croats and Muslims in Serbian historiography are overall \"cloaked in silence\". During the Milošević era, Serbian history was falsified to obscure the role Serbian collaborators Milan Nedić and Dimitrije Ljotić played in cleansing Serbia's Jewish community, killing them in the country or deporting them to Eastern European concentration camps.\n\nThe topic of World War Two Serbian population casualties has been strongly debated since the conclusion of World War Two. Within Serbian historiography, documenting Nazi and Ustaša crimes against the Roma, Jews and Serbs was undertaken as a priority. For Serbian historians, the Independent State of Croatia was responsible for the death of hundreds of thousands of Serbs throughout rural areas and in concentration camps such as Jasenovac. During the 1980s and 1990s, the issue of World War Two civilian casualties were contested and subject to manipulation between Croats and Serbs. Serbian historians alongside politicians exaggerated often the figures of those killed at Jasenovac to spread fear among the wider Serbian populace during the breakup of Yugoslavia.\n\nHistoriography within Tito's Yugoslavia had presented the Ustaša Independent State of Croatia (NDH) as an imposition of Nazi invaders and a deviation within the history of the Croats. By the middle of the 1980s this portrayal was challenged by Serbian historians. They contended that the Independent State of Croatia was a well organised entity that inflicted genocide upon the Serbs that had been in the making for several centuries in Croatia. During the 1980s, the Vatican became a focus for Serbian historiography. The popes were depicted as anti-Serbian, as being intrinsic to the demise of interwar Yugoslavia and taking part in the genocide against Serbians within the pro-Axis Independent State of Croatia. The new Serbian historiography of the 1980s of which secular and church historians contributed highlighted the role that religion played in being as the main source of Serbian-Croatian enmities. The Catholic Church was portrayed as the main carrier of hatred that inspired the idea of genocide against the Serbs during World War Two. In the works of Serbian historians, the Vatican is linked to a recurring Croatian plot to destroy Serbia. Using analogies from the Vatican's historic role in the Balkans, Serbian historians asserted that the Vatican did not understand the implications of the Muslim-Albanian awakening in Kosovo and other parts of Yugoslavia.\n\nAmong Serbian historians focusing on World War Two, they interpret the Albanian Balli Kombëtar movement as either \"anti-Yugoslav\" or \"counter revolutionary\". While the Bujan Conference (1943) is viewed as contravening the anti-fascist struggle due to Albanian communists insisting on the allocation of Kosovo to Albania at the war's conclusion. Though Tito was against such unification, in the 1980s Serbian historians held the Bujan meeting against him. Within Yugoslavia until the 1990s, Serbian historiography celebrated the aid given to Albania by Yugoslavia after the Second World War.\n\nIn Serbian historiography Prince Lazar, a figure who assembled Serb forces at the battle of Kosovo to fight the Ottomans is portrayed as a blessed martyr. Amidst the Kosovo Battle anniversary of the late 1980s, two Serbian historians independently concluded after critical historiographical analysis that Vuk Branković during the Kosovo battle was not a traitor and this finding is considered an important milestone for Serbian historiography. Of the Serbian historians who have accepted Serbian mythology, the battle of Kosovo is viewed as the main battle overriding all other battles and for some of them it is viewed as a historical idea assisting the nation to connect with a real historical past. Serbian historians until the late 1940s were still portraying the Kosovo battle as a \"victory\" of the Serbs over the Ottoman Turks. Serbian historiography contends that from the Battle of Kosovo (1389) onward, Serbians have undergone centuries of oppression by the Muslim-Ottoman Empire and they have fought to restore their medieval Serbian empire. The Kosovo myth still influences Serbian historiography as Serbian martyrdom and suffering alongside conflict and incompatibility between Christianity and Islam are emphasized. The battle of Kosovo is for Serbian historiography the historical event that legitimizes the claim of the Serbian character of Kosovo.\nSome Serbian historians contend that a document issued on 6 April 1690 by the Austrian emperor referred to an \"invitation\" for Serbs to resettle in Hungary. Serbian settlement on the Pannonian plain is viewed within Serbian historiography as the outcome of a cataclysmic exodus from Kosovo that occurred in 1690 called the \"Great Migration (Velika Seoba)\" after Kosovan Serbs rebelled and joined incoming Hapsburg forces battling the Ottomans. Serbian historians regard the migration as being undertaken on a huge scale.\n\nSerbian historians have often dealt with Albanian history in an narrowly nationalist approach. Serbian historians dispute the argument that Albanians are the descendants of ancient Illyrians and being established in the region prior to the Slavs, while contending that the presence of Albanians in the Balkans starts from the 11th century. The majority of contemporary Serbian historiography portrays a situation of conflictual relations between Serbians and Albanians after they converted to Islam. Scholarship on Kosovo has also encompassed Ottoman provincial surveys that has revealed the 15th century ethnic composition of some Kosovo settlements, however like their Albanian counterparts, Serbian historians using these records have made much of them while proving little. \n\nSerbian historiography does not support the Albanian argument that the progenitors of Kosovan Albanians were native to Kosovo. Instead within Serbian historiography the presence of Kosovan Albanians and their eventual predominance in the region has been attributed by (nationalist) Serbian historians to a number of causes. Of those either the arrival and northward spread of Albanians from Albania after the Ottoman conquest, the Austro-Ottoman war that led to the northward migration of Serbs in 1690 with replacement by Albanians and or the assimilation of local Serbians into Albanians. Serbian national history views the Albanian presence in Kosovo apart from being recent immigrants as one that strongly supported and reinforced Ottoman rule meant to dislodge Serbs and to enforce Muslim control.\n\nMany Serbian historians reject that Albanian family clans during the Ottoman period assisted to safeguard and preserve Orthodox monasteries and churches in Kosovo. Instead they contend that Albanians held imperial Ottoman military and administrative employment and were to blame as much as the Turks for the turmoil that forced many Serbs in 1690 and 1734 to migrate northward.\n\nSerbian historiography holds the view that Western powers have always targeted Serbia.\n\nDiffering from a Bosnian nationalist perspective, nationalist Serbian historians have asserted that Sandžak has 420,000 people of which 60% are Bosniaks and the region encompasses an area of 8,201 km.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29820042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29820042", "title": "Shu-tien Li", "text": "Shu-tien Li\n\nShu-tian Li (Shu-tien Li; ) (1900 – 1988) was a citizen of the United States, a Chinese American educator and hydraulic engineer. After receiving a Ph.D. degree in engineering/economics from Cornell University in 1926, Li returned to China to assume a professorship at the Peiyang University. He became the executive officer of Northern China Hydraulic Commission in 1928. He was a founder of the Chinese Hydraulic Engineering Society and served as its deputy president and then president for six terms. Later he was appointed to lead the Yellow River Commission.\n\nAt the age of 28, Li was chosen as the president of Tangshan College of Engineering and became the youngest college administrator in China. In 1932, he was named the President of the Peiyang Engineering College. He was the longest serving president in Peiyang's first 56 years of history. Under his leadership, Peiyang established one of the first graduate engineering programs and the first hydraulic engineering laboratory in China. Between 1937 and 1949, he led the establishment of several national colleges and universities in western and southwestern China (e.g. and ). During his leadership at the Si-kang Institute of Technology, the Panzhihua Mine, one of the largest iron (and rare metal) deposits in the world, was discovered. In recognition of his contribution to hydraulic engineering and to China during World War II, Li was awarded a First Order Hydraulic Gold Medal and an Order of Victory of Resistance Against Aggression, respectively, from the Chinese government after the war. He was elected to the National Peking Academy of Sciences in 1948. He published many research papers and books on the management and improvement of the nation's water resources, Yellow River basin and northern China harbor. Among these publications, \"The Chinese Hydraulic Issues\" (), the first comprehensive review and scientific recommendation regarding Chinese water resources, established him as the leading hydraulic engineering authority in China in the 1940s.\n\nLi returned to the United States in 1950 to start private engineering practice and academic teaching/research. The Chinese Institute of Engineers (CIE) awarded Li the CIE annual award in 1963 for his work on the Unified Energy-Matrix Analysis. For his contribution to concrete engineering, he received the highest award from the American Concrete Institute in 1985. He also served on a US congressional advisory board. He was credited with establishing the Phi Tau Phi Scholastic Honor Society of America. He published 17 books and more than 800 research papers during his lifetime. Li died at the age of 88. He was an active philatelist and a devout Southern Baptist during his life.\n\nHis brother, Shu-hua Li or Li Shu-hua () was a physicist, and a former Secretary of Education in China, and contributed to the founding of UNESCO. Li was the maternal grandfather of Gilbert Chu, an oncologist and professor of biochemistry at Stanford University, Steven Chu, a Nobel Prize winner in physics and the USA Secretary of Energy in the Obama Administration and Morgan Chu, an intellectual property lawyer.\n"}
{"id": "2100473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2100473", "title": "St Scholastica Day riot", "text": "St Scholastica Day riot\n\nThe St Scholastica Day riot of 10 February 1355 is one of the more notorious events in the history of Oxford, England. Sparked off by a tavern dispute between two students and a taverner, the riot lasted two days and resulted in a large number of deaths among local citizens and students. The ensuing pacification led to a reinforcement and enlargement of the privileges and liberties of the academic institutions over the town.\n\nThe seed of the riot was an altercation in the Swindlestock Tavern in Oxford (now the site of the Santander Bank on Carfax, on the corner of St Aldate's and Queen Street) between two students of the University of Oxford, Walter Spryngeheuse and Roger de Chesterfield, and the taverner, John Croidon. They complained about the quality of drinks, which led to an exchange of rude words that ended with the students throwing their drinks in the taverner's face and assaulting him. Retaliation for the incident led to armed clashes between locals and students.\n\nThe mayor of Oxford, John de Bereford, asked the Chancellor of the University of Oxford, Humphrey de Cherlton, to arrest the two students, to no avail. Instead, 200 students supported Spryngeheuse and Chesterfield, allegedly assaulting the mayor and others. As the situation escalated, locals from the surrounding countryside poured in, crying: \"Havac! Havoc! Smyt fast, give gode knocks!\"\n\nA riot broke out and lasted two days, which left 63 students and perhaps 30 locals dead. The students were eventually routed.\n\nThe dispute was eventually settled in favour of the University, when a special charter was created. Annually thereafter, on 10 February the saint's day of St Scholastica, the mayor and councillors had to march bareheaded through the streets, attend Mass, and pay to the university a fine of one penny for every scholar killed, a total of 5s, 3d. The penance ended 470 years later in 1825, when the mayor refused to take part.\n\nIn an act of conciliation on 10 February 1955, the Mayor was given an honorary degree and the Vice-Chancellor was made an Honorary Freeman, at a commemoration of the events of 1355.\n\nThe riot was a culmination of other riots in Oxford, which resulted in over 90 deaths. In the 1850s novel \"The Adventures of Mr. Verdant Green\" by Cuthbert Bede, students still saw St Scholastica's Day as an opportunity for a confrontation.\n\n"}
{"id": "31741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31741", "title": "Unemployment", "text": "Unemployment\n\nUnemployment or joblessness is the situation of actively looking for employment but not being currently employed.\n\nThe unemployment rate is a measure of the prevalence of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by dividing the number of unemployed individuals by all individuals currently in the labor force. During periods of recession, an economy usually experiences a relatively high unemployment rate.million people globally or 6% of the world's workforce were without a job in 2012.\n\nThe causes of unemployment are heavily debated. Classical economics, new classical economics, and the Austrian School of economics argued that market mechanisms are reliable means of resolving unemployment. These theories argue against interventions imposed on the labor market from the outside, such as unionization, bureaucratic work rules, minimum wage laws, taxes, and other regulations that they claim discourage the hiring of workers. Keynesian economics emphasizes the cyclical nature of unemployment and recommends government interventions in the economy that it claims will reduce unemployment during recessions. This theory focuses on recurrent shocks that suddenly reduce aggregate demand for goods and services and thus reduce demand for workers. Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to increase demand for workers; these can include financial stimuli, publicly funded job creation, and expansionist monetary policies. Its namesake economist John Maynard Keynes, believed that the root cause of unemployment is the desire of investors to receive more money rather than produce more products, which is not possible without public bodies producing new money. A third group of theories emphasize the need for a stable supply of capital and investment to maintain full employment. On this view, government should guarantee full employment through fiscal policy, monetary policy and trade policy as stated, for example, in the US Employment Act of 1946, by counteracting private sector or trade investment volatility, and reducing inequality.\n\nIn addition to these comprehensive theories of unemployment, there are a few categorizations of unemployment that are used to more precisely model the effects of unemployment within the economic system. Some of the main types of unemployment include structural unemployment and frictional unemployment, as well as cyclical unemployment, involuntary unemployment, and classical unemployment. Structural unemployment focuses on foundational problems in the economy and inefficiencies inherent in labor markets, including a mismatch between the supply and demand of laborers with necessary skill sets. Structural arguments emphasize causes and solutions related to disruptive technologies and globalization. Discussions of frictional unemployment focus on voluntary decisions to work based on each individuals' valuation of their own work and how that compares to current wage rates plus the time and effort required to find a job. Causes and solutions for frictional unemployment often address job entry threshold and wage rates.\n\nThe state of being without any work for an educated person, for earning one's livelihood is meant by unemployment. Economists distinguish between various overlapping types of and theories of unemployment, including cyclical or Keynesian unemployment, frictional unemployment, structural unemployment and classical unemployment. Some additional types of unemployment that are occasionally mentioned are seasonal unemployment, hardcore unemployment, and hidden unemployment.\n\nThough there have been several definitions of \"voluntary\" and \"involuntary unemployment\" in the economics literature, a simple distinction is often applied. Voluntary unemployment is attributed to the individual's decisions, whereas involuntary unemployment exists because of the socio-economic environment (including the market structure, government intervention, and the level of aggregate demand) in which individuals operate. In these terms, much or most of frictional unemployment is voluntary, since it reflects individual search behavior. Voluntary unemployment includes workers who reject low wage jobs whereas involuntary unemployment includes workers fired due to an economic crisis, industrial decline, company bankruptcy, or organizational restructuring.\n\nOn the other hand, cyclical unemployment, structural unemployment, and classical unemployment are largely involuntary in nature. However, the existence of structural unemployment may reflect choices made by the unemployed in the past, while classical (natural) unemployment may result from the legislative and economic choices made by labour unions or political parties.\n\nThe clearest cases of involuntary unemployment are those where there are fewer job vacancies than unemployed workers even when wages are allowed to adjust, so that even if all vacancies were to be filled, some unemployed workers would still remain. This happens with cyclical unemployment, as macroeconomic forces cause microeconomic unemployment which can boomerang back and exacerbate these macroeconomic forces.\n\nClassical, or real-wage unemployment, occurs when real wages for a job are set above the market-clearing level causing the number of job-seekers to exceed the number of vacancies. On the other hand, most economists argue that as wages fall below a livable wage many choose to fall out of the labor market and no longer seek employment. This is especially true in countries where low-income families are supported through public welfare systems. In such cases, wages would have to be high enough to motivate people to choose employment over what they receive through public welfare. Wages below a livable wage are likely to result in lower labor market participation in above stated scenario. In addition, it must be noted that consumption of goods and services is the primary driver of increased need for labor. Higher wages lead to workers having more income available to consume goods and services. Therefore, higher wages increase general consumption and as a result need for labor increases and unemployment decreases in the economy.\n\nMany economists have argued that unemployment increases with increased governmental regulation. For example, minimum wage laws raise the cost of some low-skill laborers above market equilibrium, resulting in increased unemployment as people who wish to work at the going rate cannot (as the new and higher enforced wage is now greater than the value of their labour). Laws restricting layoffs may make businesses less likely to hire in the first place, as hiring becomes more risky.\n\nHowever, this argument overly simplifies the relationship between wage rates and unemployment, ignoring numerous factors, which contribute to unemployment. Some, such as Murray Rothbard, suggest that even social taboos can prevent wages from falling to the market-clearing level.\n\nIn \"Out of Work: Unemployment and Government in the Twentieth-Century America\", economists Richard Vedder and Lowell Gallaway argue that the empirical record of wages rates, productivity, and unemployment in American validates classical unemployment theory. Their data shows a strong correlation between adjusted real wage and unemployment in the United States from 1900 to 1990. However, they maintain that their data does not take into account exogenous events.\n\nCyclical, deficient-demand, or Keynesian unemployment, occurs when there is not enough aggregate demand in the economy to provide jobs for everyone who wants to work. Demand for most goods and services falls, less production is needed and consequently fewer workers are needed, wages are sticky and do not fall to meet the equilibrium level, and mass unemployment results. Its name is derived from the frequent shifts in the business cycle although unemployment can also be persistent as occurred during the Great Depression of the 1930s.\n\nWith cyclical unemployment, the number of unemployed workers exceeds the number of job vacancies, so that even if full employment were attained and all open jobs were filled, some workers would still remain unemployed. Some associate cyclical unemployment with frictional unemployment because the factors that cause the friction are partially caused by cyclical variables. For example, a surprise decrease in the money supply may shock rational economic factors and suddenly inhibit aggregate demand.\n\nKeynesian economists on the other hand see the lack of supply for jobs as potentially resolvable by government intervention. One suggested interventions involves deficit spending to boost employment and demand. Another intervention involves an expansionary monetary policy that increases the supply of money which should reduce interest rates which should lead to an increase in non-governmental spending.\n\nMarxists share the Keynesian viewpoint of the relationship between economic demand and employment, but with the caveat that the market system's propensity to slash wages and reduce labor participation on an enterprise level causes a requisite decrease in aggregate demand in the economy as a whole, causing crises of unemployment and periods of low economic activity before the capital accumulation (investment) phase of economic growth can continue.\n\nAccording to Karl Marx, unemployment is inherent within the unstable capitalist system and periodic crises of mass unemployment are to be expected. He theorized that unemployment was inevitable and even a necessary part of the capitalist system, with recovery and regrowth also part of the process. The function of the proletariat within the capitalist system is to provide a \"reserve army of labour\" that creates downward pressure on wages. This is accomplished by dividing the proletariat into surplus labour (employees) and under-employment (unemployed). This reserve army of labour fight among themselves for scarce jobs at lower and lower wages.\n\nAt first glance, unemployment seems inefficient since unemployed workers do not increase profits, but unemployment is profitable within the global capitalist system because unemployment lowers wages which are costs from the perspective of the owners. From this perspective low wages benefit the system by reducing economic rents. Yet, it does not benefit workers; according to Karl Marx, the workers (proletariat) work to benefit the bourgeoisie through their production of capital. Capitalist systems unfairly manipulate the market for labour by perpetuating unemployment which lowers laborers' demands for fair wages. Workers are pitted against one another at the service of increasing profits for owners. As a result of the capitalist mode of production, Marx argued that workers experienced alienation and estrangement through their economic identity.\n\nAccording to Marx, the only way to permanently eliminate unemployment would be to abolish capitalism and the system of forced competition for wages and then shift to a socialist or communist economic system. For contemporary Marxists, the existence of persistent unemployment is proof of the inability of capitalism to ensure full employment.\n\nIn demand-based theory, it is possible to abolish cyclical unemployment by increasing the aggregate demand for products and workers. However, eventually the economy hits an \"inflation barrier\" imposed by the four other kinds of unemployment to the extent that they exist. Historical experience suggests that low unemployment affects inflation in the short term but not the long term. In the long term, the velocity of money supply measures such as the MZM (\"money zero maturity\", representing cash and equivalent demand deposits) velocity is far more predictive of inflation than low unemployment.\n\nSome demand theory economists see the inflation barrier as corresponding to the natural rate of unemployment. The \"natural\" rate of unemployment is defined as the rate of unemployment that exists when the labour market is in equilibrium and there is pressure for neither rising inflation rates nor falling inflation rates. An alternative technical term for this rate is the NAIRU, or the \"Non-Accelerating Inflation Rate of Unemployment\". No matter what its name, demand theory holds that this means that if the unemployment rate gets \"too low,\" inflation will accelerate in the absence of wage and price controls (incomes policies).\n\nOne of the major problems with the NAIRU theory is that no one knows exactly what the NAIRU is (while it clearly changes over time). The margin of error can be quite high relative to the actual unemployment rate, making it hard to use the NAIRU in policy-making.\n\nAnother, normative, definition of full employment might be called the \"ideal\" unemployment rate. It would exclude all types of unemployment that represent forms of inefficiency. This type of \"full employment\" unemployment would correspond to only frictional unemployment (excluding that part encouraging the McJobs management strategy) and would thus be very low. However, it would be impossible to attain this full-employment target using only demand-side Keynesian stimulus without getting below the NAIRU and causing accelerating inflation (absent incomes policies). Training programs aimed at fighting structural unemployment would help here.\n\nTo the extent that hidden unemployment exists, it implies that official unemployment statistics provide a poor guide to what unemployment rate coincides with \"full employment\".\n\nStructural unemployment occurs when a labour market is unable to provide jobs for everyone who wants one because there is a mismatch between the skills of the unemployed workers and the skills needed for the available jobs. Structural unemployment is hard to separate empirically from frictional unemployment, except to say that it lasts longer. As with frictional unemployment, simple demand-side stimulus will not work to easily abolish this type of unemployment.\n\nStructural unemployment may also be encouraged to rise by persistent cyclical unemployment: if an economy suffers from long-lasting low aggregate demand, it means that many of the unemployed become disheartened, while their skills (including job-searching skills) become \"rusty\" and obsolete. Problems with debt may lead to homelessness and a fall into the vicious circle of poverty.\n\nThis means that they may not fit the job vacancies that are created when the economy recovers. The implication is that sustained \"high\" demand may \"lower\" structural unemployment. This theory of persistence in structural unemployment has been referred to as an example of path dependence or \"hysteresis\".\n\nMuch \"technological unemployment\", due to the replacement of workers by machines, might be counted as structural unemployment. Alternatively, technological unemployment might refer to the way in which steady increases in labour productivity mean that fewer workers are needed to produce the same level of output every year. The fact that aggregate demand can be raised to deal with this problem suggests that this problem is instead one of cyclical unemployment. As indicated by Okun's Law, the demand side must grow sufficiently quickly to absorb not only the growing labour force but also the workers made redundant by increased labour productivity.\n\nSeasonal unemployment may be seen as a kind of structural unemployment, since it is a type of unemployment that is linked to certain kinds of jobs (construction work, migratory farm work). The most-cited official unemployment measures erase this kind of unemployment from the statistics using \"seasonal adjustment\" techniques. This results in substantial, permanent structural unemployment.\n\nFrictional unemployment is the time period between jobs when a worker is searching for, or transitioning from one job to another. It is sometimes called search unemployment and can be voluntary based on the circumstances of the unemployed individual.\n\nFrictional unemployment exists because both jobs and workers are heterogeneous, and a mismatch can result between the characteristics of supply and demand. Such a mismatch can be related to skills, payment, work-time, location, seasonal industries, attitude, taste, and a multitude of other factors. New entrants (such as graduating students) and re-entrants (such as former homemakers) can also suffer a spell of frictional unemployment.\n\nWorkers as well as employers accept a certain level of imperfection, risk or compromise, but usually not right away; they will invest some time and effort to find a better match. This is in fact beneficial to the economy since it results in a better allocation of resources. However, if the search takes too long and mismatches are too frequent, the economy suffers, since some work will not get done. Therefore, governments will seek ways to reduce unnecessary frictional unemployment through multiple means including providing education, advice, training, and assistance such as daycare centers.\n\nThe frictions in the labour market are sometimes illustrated graphically with a Beveridge curve, a downward-sloping, convex curve that shows a correlation between the unemployment rate on one axis and the vacancy rate on the other. Changes in the supply of or demand for labour cause movements along this curve. An increase (decrease) in labour market frictions will shift the curve outwards (inwards).\n\nHidden, or covered, unemployment is the unemployment of potential workers that are not reflected in official unemployment statistics, due to the way the statistics are collected. In many countries, only those who have no work but are actively looking for work (and/or qualifying for social security benefits) are counted as unemployed. Those who have given up looking for work (and sometimes those who are on Government \"retraining\" programs) are not officially counted among the unemployed, even though they are not employed.\n\nThe statistic also does not count the \"underemployed\"—those working fewer hours than they would prefer or in a job that doesn't make good use of their capabilities. In addition, those who are of working age but are currently in full-time education are usually not considered unemployed in government statistics. Traditional unemployed native societies who survive by gathering, hunting, herding, and farming in wilderness areas, may or may not be counted in unemployment statistics. Official statistics often underestimate unemployment rates because of hidden unemployment.\n\nLong-term unemployment is defined in European Union statistics, as unemployment lasting for longer than one year. The United States Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), which reports current long-term unemployment rate at 1.9 percent, defines this as unemployment lasting 27 weeks or longer. Long-term unemployment is a component of structural unemployment, which results in long-term unemployment existing in every social group, industry, occupation, and all levels of education.\n\nThere are also different ways national statistical agencies measure unemployment. These differences may limit the validity of international comparisons of unemployment data. To some degree these differences remain despite national statistical agencies increasingly adopting the definition of unemployment by the International Labour Organization. To facilitate international comparisons, some organizations, such as the OECD, Eurostat, and International Labor Comparisons Program, adjust data on unemployment for comparability across countries.\n\nThough many people care about the number of unemployed individuals, economists typically focus on the unemployment rate. This corrects for the normal increase in the number of people employed due to increases in population and increases in the labour force relative to the population. The unemployment rate is expressed as a percentage, and is calculated as follows:\n\nAs defined by the International Labour Organization, \"unemployed workers\" are those who are currently not working but are willing and able to work for pay, currently available to work, and have actively searched for work.\nIndividuals who are actively seeking job placement must make the effort to: be in contact with an employer, have job interviews, contact job placement agencies, send out resumes, submit applications, respond to advertisements, or some other means of active job searching within the prior four weeks. Simply looking at advertisements and not responding will not count as actively seeking job placement. Since not all unemployment may be \"open\" and counted by government agencies, official statistics on unemployment may not be accurate. In the United States, for example, the unemployment rate does not take into consideration those individuals who are not actively looking for employment, such as those still attending college.\n\nThe ILO describes 4 different methods to calculate the unemployment rate:\n\nThe primary measure of unemployment, U3, allows for comparisons between countries. Unemployment differs from country to country and across different time periods. For example, during the 1990s and 2000s, the United States had lower unemployment levels than many countries in the European Union, which had significant internal variation, with countries like the UK and Denmark outperforming Italy and France. However, large economic events such as the Great Depression can lead to similar unemployment rates across the globe.\n\nEurostat, the statistical office of the European Union, defines unemployed as those persons age 15 to 74 who are not working, have looked for work in the last four weeks, and ready to start work within two weeks, which conform to ILO standards. Both the actual count and rate of unemployment are reported. Statistical data are available by member state, for the European Union as a whole (EU28) as well as for the euro area (EA19). Eurostat also includes a long-term unemployment rate. This is defined as part of the unemployed who have been unemployed for an excess of 1 year.\n\nThe main source used is the European Union Labour Force Survey (EU-LFS). The EU-LFS collects data on all member states each quarter. For monthly calculations, national surveys or national registers from employment offices are used in conjunction with quarterly EU-LFS data. The exact calculation for individual countries, resulting in harmonized monthly data, depends on the availability of the data.\n\nThe Bureau of Labor Statistics measures employment and unemployment (of those over 17 years of age) using two different labor force surveys conducted by the United States Census Bureau (within the United States Department of Commerce) and/or the Bureau of Labor Statistics (within the United States Department of Labor) that gather employment statistics monthly. The Current Population Survey (CPS), or \"Household Survey\", conducts a survey based on a sample of 60,000 households. This Survey measures the unemployment rate based on the ILO definition.\n\nThe Current Employment Statistics survey (CES), or \"Payroll Survey\", conducts a survey based on a sample of 160,000 businesses and government agencies that represent 400,000 individual employers. This survey measures only civilian nonagricultural employment; thus, it does not calculate an unemployment rate, and it differs from the ILO unemployment rate definition. These two sources have different classification criteria, and usually produce differing results. Additional data are also available from the government, such as the unemployment insurance weekly claims report available from the Office of Workforce Security, within the U.S. Department of Labor Employment & Training Administration. The Bureau of Labor Statistics provides up-to-date numbers via a PDF linked here. The BLS also provides a readable concise current Employment Situation Summary, updated monthly.\nThe Bureau of Labor Statistics also calculates six alternate measures of unemployment, U1 through U6, that measure different aspects of unemployment:\n\"Note: \"Marginally attached workers\" are added to the total labour force for unemployment rate calculation for U4, U5, and U6.\" The BLS revised the CPS in 1994 and among the changes the measure representing the official unemployment rate was renamed U3 instead of U5. In 2013, Representative Hunter proposed that the Bureau of Labor Statistics use the U5 rate instead of the current U3 rate.\n\nStatistics for the U.S. economy as a whole hide variations among groups. For example, in January 2008 U.S. unemployment rates were 4.4% for adult men, 4.2% for adult women, 4.4% for Caucasians, 6.3% for Hispanics or Latinos (all races), 9.2% for African Americans, 3.2% for Asian Americans, and 18.0% for teenagers. Also, the U.S. unemployment rate would be at least 2% higher if prisoners and jail inmates were counted.\n\nThe unemployment rate is included in a number of major economic indexes including the United States' Conference Board's Index of Leading Indicators a macroeconomic measure of the state of the economy.\n\nSome critics believe that current methods of measuring unemployment are inaccurate in terms of the impact of unemployment on people as these methods do not take into account the 1.5% of the available working population incarcerated in U.S. prisons (who may or may not be working while incarcerated); those who have lost their jobs and have become discouraged over time from actively looking for work; those who are self-employed or wish to become self-employed, such as tradesmen or building contractors or IT consultants; those who have retired before the official retirement age but would still like to work (involuntary early retirees); those on disability pensions who, while not possessing full health, still wish to work in occupations suitable for their medical conditions; or those who work for payment for as little as one hour per week but would like to work full-time.\n\nThese last people are \"involuntary part-time\" workers, those who are underemployed, e.g., a computer programmer who is working in a retail store until he can find a permanent job, involuntary stay-at-home mothers who would prefer to work, and graduate and Professional school students who were unable to find worthwhile jobs after they graduated with their bachelor's degrees.\nInternationally, some nations' unemployment rates are sometimes muted or appear less severe due to the number of self-employed individuals working in agriculture. Small independent farmers are often considered self-employed; so, they cannot be unemployed. The impact of this is that in non-industrialized economies, such as the United States and Europe during the early 19th century, overall unemployment was approximately 3% because so many individuals were self-employed, independent farmers; yet, unemployment outside of agriculture was as high as 80%.\n\nMany economies industrialize and experience increasing numbers of non-agricultural workers. For example, the United States' non-agricultural labour force increased from 20% in 1800, to 50% in 1850, to 97% in 2000. The shift away from self-employment increases the percentage of the population who are included in unemployment rates. When comparing unemployment rates between countries or time periods, it is best to consider differences in their levels of industrialization and self-employment.\n\nAdditionally, the measures of employment and unemployment may be \"too high\". In some countries, the availability of unemployment benefits can inflate statistics since they give an incentive to register as unemployed. People who do not seek work may choose to declare themselves unemployed so as to get benefits; people with undeclared paid occupations may try to get unemployment benefits in addition to the money they earn from their work.\n\nHowever, in countries such as the United States, Canada, Mexico, Australia, Japan and the European Union, unemployment is measured using a sample survey (akin to a Gallup poll). According to the BLS, a number of Eastern European nations have instituted labour force surveys as well. The sample survey has its own problems because the total number of workers in the economy is calculated based on a sample rather than a census.\n\nIt is possible to be neither employed nor unemployed by ILO definitions, i.e., to be outside of the \"labour force\". These are people who have no job and are not looking for one. Many of these people are going to school or are retired. Family responsibilities keep others out of the labour force. Still others have a physical or mental disability which prevents them from participating in labour force activities. Some people simply elect not to work preferring to be dependent on others for sustenance.\n\nTypically, employment and the labour force include only work done for monetary gain. Hence, a homemaker is neither part of the labour force nor unemployed. Nor are full-time students nor prisoners considered to be part of the labour force or unemployment. The latter can be important. In 1999, economists Lawrence F. Katz and Alan B. Krueger estimated that increased incarceration lowered measured unemployment in the United States by 0.17% between 1985 and the late 1990s.\n\nIn particular, as of 2005, roughly 0.7% of the U.S. population is incarcerated (1.5% of the available working population). Additionally, children, the elderly, and some individuals with disabilities are typically not counted as part of the labour force in and are correspondingly not included in the unemployment statistics. However, some elderly and many disabled individuals are active in the labour market\n\nIn the early stages of an economic boom, unemployment often rises. This is because people join the labour market (give up studying, start a job hunt, etc.) as a result of the improving job market, but until they have actually found a position they are counted as unemployed. Similarly, during a recession, the increase in the unemployment rate is moderated by people leaving the labour force or being otherwise discounted from the labour force, such as with the self-employed.\n\nFor the fourth quarter of 2004, according to OECD, (source Employment Outlook 2005 ), normalized unemployment for men aged 25 to 54 was 4.6% in the U.S. and 7.4% in France. At the same time and for the same population the employment rate (number of workers divided by population) was 86.3% in the U.S. and 86.7% in France. This example shows that the unemployment rate is 60% higher in France than in the U.S., yet more people in this demographic are working in France than in the U.S., which is counterintuitive if it is expected that the unemployment rate reflects the health of the labour market.\n\nDue to these deficiencies, many labour market economists prefer to look at a range of economic statistics such as labour market participation rate, the percentage of people aged between 15 and 64 who are currently employed or searching for employment, the total number of full-time jobs in an economy, the number of people seeking work as a raw number and not a percentage, and the total number of person-hours worked in a month compared to the total number of person-hours people would like to work. In particular the NBER does not use the unemployment rate but prefer various employment rates to date recessions.\n\nThe labor force participation rate is the ratio between the labor force and the overall size of their cohort (national population of the same age range). In the West, during the later half of the 20th century, the labor force participation rate increased significantly, due to an increase in the number of women who entered the workplace.\n\nIn the United States, there have been four significant stages of women's participation in the labor force—increases in the 20th century and decreases in the 21st century. Male labor force participation decreased from 1953 until 2013. Since October 2013 men have been increasingly joining the labor force.\n\nDuring the late 19th century through the 1920s, very few women worked outside the home. They were young single women who typically withdrew from the labor force at marriage unless family needed two incomes. These women worked primarily in the textile manufacturing industry or as domestic workers. This profession empowered women and allowed them to earn a living wage. At times, they were a financial help to their families.\n\nBetween 1930 and 1950, female labor force participation increased primarily due to the increased demand for office workers, women's participation in the high school movement, and due to electrification which reduced the time spent on household chores. Between the 1950s to the early 1970s, most women were secondary earners working mainly as secretaries, teachers, nurses, and librarians (pink-collar jobs).\n\nBetween the mid-1970s to the late 1990s, there was a period of revolution of women in the labor force brought on by a source of different factors, many of which arose from the second wave feminism movement. Women more accurately planned for their future in the work force, investing in more applicable majors in college that prepared them to enter and compete in the labor market. In the United States, the female labor force participation rate rose from approximately 33% in 1948 to a peak of 60.3% in 2000. As of April 2015, the female labor force participation is at 56.6%, the male labor force participation rate is at 69.4% and the total is 62.8%.\n\nA common theory in modern economics claims that the rise of women participating in the U.S. labor force in the 1950s to the 1990s was due to the introduction of a new contraceptive technology, birth control pills, and the adjustment of age of majority laws. The use of birth control gave women the flexibility of opting to invest and advance their career while maintaining a relationship. By having control over the timing of their fertility, they were not running a risk of thwarting their career choices. However, only 40% of the population actually used the birth control pill.\n\nThis implies that other factors may have contributed to women choosing to invest in advancing their careers. One factor may be that more and more men delayed the age of marriage, allowing women to marry later in life without worrying about the quality of older men. Other factors include the changing nature of work, with machines replacing physical labor, eliminating many traditional male occupations, and the rise of the service sector, where many jobs are gender neutral.\n\nAnother factor that may have contributed to the trend was The Equal Pay Act of 1963, which aimed at abolishing wage disparity based on sex. Such legislation diminished sexual discrimination and encouraged more women to enter the labor market by receiving fair remuneration to help raising families and children.\n\nAt the turn of the 21st century the labor force participation began to reverse its long period of increase. Reasons for this change include a rising share of older workers, an increase in school enrollment rates among young workers and a decrease in female labor force participation.\n\nThe labor force participation rate can decrease when the rate of growth of the population outweighs that of the employed and unemployed together. The labor force participation rate is a key component in long-term economic growth, almost as important as productivity.\n\nA historic shift began around the end of the great recession as women began leaving the labor force in the United States and other developed countries. The female labor force participation rate in the United States has steadily decreased since 2009 and as of April 2015 the female labor force participation rate has gone back down to 1988 levels of 56.6%.\n\nParticipation rates are defined as follows:\n\nThe labor force participation rate explains how an increase in the unemployment rate can occur simultaneously with an increase in employment. If a large amount of new workers enter the labor force but only a small fraction become employed, then the increase in the number of unemployed workers can outpace the growth in employment.\n\nThe unemployment ratio calculates the share of unemployed for the whole population. Particularly many young people between 15 and 24 are studying full-time and are therefore neither working nor looking for a job. This means they are not part of the labour force which is used as the denominator for calculating the unemployment rate. The youth unemployment ratios in the European Union range from 5.2 (Austria) to 20.6 percent (Spain). These are considerably lower than the standard youth unemployment rates, ranging from 7.9 (Germany) to 57.9 percent (Greece).\n\nHigh and persistent unemployment, in which economic inequality increases, has a negative effect on subsequent long-run economic growth. Unemployment can harm growth not only because it is a waste of resources, but also because it generates redistributive pressures and subsequent distortions, drives people to poverty, constrains liquidity limiting labor mobility, and erodes self-esteem promoting social dislocation, unrest and conflict. 2013 Economics Nobel prize winner Robert J. Shiller said that rising inequality in the United States and elsewhere is the most important problem.\n\nUnemployed individuals are unable to earn money to meet financial obligations. Failure to pay mortgage payments or to pay rent may lead to homelessness through foreclosure or eviction. Across the United States the growing ranks of people made homeless in the foreclosure crisis are generating tent cities.\n\nUnemployment increases susceptibility to cardiovascular disease, somatization, anxiety disorders, depression, and suicide. In addition, unemployed people have higher rates of medication use, poor diet, physician visits, tobacco smoking, alcoholic beverage consumption, drug use, and lower rates of exercise. According to a study published in Social Indicator Research, even those who tend to be optimistic find it difficult to look on the bright side of things when unemployed. Using interviews and data from German participants aged 16 to 94—including individuals coping with the stresses of real life and not just a volunteering student population—the researchers determined that even optimists struggled with being unemployed.\n\nIn 1979, Brenner found that for every 10% increase in the number of unemployed there is an increase of 1.2% in total mortality, a 1.7% increase in cardiovascular disease, 1.3% more cirrhosis cases, 1.7% more suicides, 4.0% more arrests, and 0.8% more assaults reported to the police.\n\nA study by Ruhm, in 2000, on the effect of recessions on health found that several measures of health actually improve during recessions. As for the impact of an economic downturn on crime, during the Great Depression the crime rate did not decrease. The unemployed in the U.S. often use welfare programs such as Food Stamps or accumulating debt because unemployment insurance in the U.S. generally does not replace a majority of the income one received on the job (and one cannot receive such aid indefinitely).\n\nNot everyone suffers equally from unemployment. In a prospective study of 9570 individuals over four years, highly conscientious people suffered more than twice as much if they became unemployed. The authors suggested this may be due to conscientious people making different attributions about why they became unemployed, or through experiencing stronger reactions following failure. There is also possibility of reverse causality from poor health to unemployment.\n\nSome researchers hold that many of the low-income jobs are not really a better option than unemployment with a welfare state (with its unemployment insurance benefits). But since it is difficult or impossible to get unemployment insurance benefits without having worked in the past, these jobs and unemployment are more complementary than they are substitutes. (These jobs are often held short-term, either by students or by those trying to gain experience; turnover in most low-paying jobs is high.)\n\nAnother cost for the unemployed is that the combination of unemployment, lack of financial resources, and social responsibilities may push unemployed workers to take jobs that do not fit their skills or allow them to use their talents. Unemployment can cause underemployment, and fear of job loss can spur psychological anxiety. As well as anxiety, it can cause depression, lack of confidence, and huge amounts of stress. This stress is increased when the unemployed are faced with health issues, poverty, and lack of relational support.\n\nAnother personal cost of unemployment is its impact on relationships. A 2008 study from Covizzi, which examines the relationship between unemployment and divorce, found that the rate of divorce is greater for couples when one partner is unemployed. However, a more recent study has found that some couples often stick together in \"unhappy\" or \"unhealthy\" marriages when unemployed to buffer financial costs. A 2014 study by Van der Meer found that the stigma that comes from being unemployed affects personal well-being, especially for men, who often feel as though their masculine identities are threatened by unemployment.\n\nUnemployment can also bring personal costs in relation to gender. One study found that women are more likely to experience unemployment than men and that they are less likely to move from temporary positions to permanent positions. Another study on gender and unemployment found that men, however, are more likely to experience greater stress, depression, and adverse effects from unemployment, largely stemming from the perceived threat to their role as breadwinner. This study found that men expect themselves to be viewed as \"less manly\" after a job loss than they actually are, and as a result they engage in compensating behaviors, such as financial risk-taking and increased assertiveness, because of it.\n\nCosts of unemployment also vary depending on age. The young and the old are the two largest age groups currently experiencing unemployment. A 2007 study from Jacob and Kleinert found that young people (ages 18 to 24) who have fewer resources and limited work experiences are more likely to be unemployed. Other researchers have found that today’s high school seniors place a lower value on work than those in the past, and this is likely because they recognize the limited availability of jobs. At the other end of the age spectrum, studies have found that older individuals have more barriers than younger workers to employment, require stronger social networks to acquire work, and are also less likely to move from temporary to permanent positions. Additionally, some older people see age discrimination as the reason they are not getting hired.\n\nAn economy with high unemployment is not using all of the resources, specifically labour, available to it. Since it is operating below its production possibility frontier, it could have higher output if all the workforce were usefully employed. However, there is a trade-off between economic efficiency and unemployment: if the frictionally unemployed accepted the first job they were offered, they would be likely to be operating at below their skill level, reducing the economy's efficiency.\n\nDuring a long period of unemployment, workers can lose their skills, causing a loss of human capital. Being unemployed can also reduce the life expectancy of workers by about seven years.\n\nHigh unemployment can encourage xenophobia and protectionism as workers fear that foreigners are stealing their jobs. Efforts to preserve existing jobs of domestic and native workers include legal barriers against \"outsiders\" who want jobs, obstacles to immigration, and/or tariffs and similar trade barriers against foreign competitors.\n\nHigh unemployment can also cause social problems such as crime; if people have less disposable income than before, it is very likely that crime levels within the economy will increase.\n\nA 2015 study published in \"The Lancet\", estimates that unemployment causes 45,000 suicides a year globally.\n\nHigh levels of unemployment can be causes of civil unrest, in some cases leading to revolution, and particularly totalitarianism. The fall of the Weimar Republic in 1933 and Adolf Hitler's rise to power, which culminated in World War II and the deaths of tens of millions and the destruction of much of the physical capital of Europe, is attributed to the poor economic conditions in Germany at the time, notably a high unemployment rate of above 20%; see Great Depression in Central Europe for details.\n\nNote that the hyperinflation in the Weimar Republic is not directly blamed for the Nazi rise—the Hyperinflation in the Weimar Republic occurred primarily in the period 1921–23, which was contemporary with Hitler's Beer Hall Putsch of 1923, and is blamed for damaging the credibility of democratic institutions, but the Nazis did not assume government until 1933, ten years after the hyperinflation but in the midst of high unemployment.\n\nRising unemployment has traditionally been regarded by the public and media in any country as a key guarantor of electoral defeat for any government which oversees it. This was very much the consensus in the United Kingdom until 1983, when Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government won a landslide in the general election, despite overseeing a rise in unemployment from 1,500,000 to 3,200,000 since its election four years earlier.\n\nThe primary benefit of unemployment is that people are available for hire, without being headhunted away from their existing employers. This permits new and old businesses to take on staff.\n\nUnemployment is argued to be \"beneficial\" to the people who are not unemployed in the sense that it averts inflation, which itself has damaging effects, by providing (in Marxian terms) a reserve army of labour, that keeps wages in check. However, the direct connection between full local employment and local inflation has been disputed by some due to the recent increase in international trade that supplies low-priced goods even while local employment rates rise to full employment.\n\nBefore current levels of world trade were developed, unemployment was demonstrated to reduce inflation, following the Phillips curve, or to decelerate inflation, following the NAIRU/natural rate of unemployment theory, since it is relatively easy to seek a new job without losing one's current one. And when more jobs are available for fewer workers (lower unemployment), it may allow workers to find the jobs that better fit their tastes, talents, and needs.\n\nAs in the Marxian theory of unemployment, special interests may also benefit: some employers may expect that employees with no fear of losing their jobs will not work as hard, or will demand increased wages and benefit. According to this theory, unemployment may promote general labour productivity and profitability by increasing employers' rationale for their monopsony-like power (and profits).\n\nOptimal unemployment has also been defended as an environmental tool to brake the constantly accelerated growth of the GDP to maintain levels sustainable in the context of resource constraints and environmental impacts. However the tool of denying jobs to willing workers seems a blunt instrument for conserving resources and the environment—it reduces the consumption of the unemployed across the board, and only in the short term. Full employment of the unemployed workforce, all focused toward the goal of developing more environmentally efficient methods for production and consumption might provide a more significant and lasting cumulative environmental benefit and reduced resource consumption. If so the future economy and workforce would benefit from the resultant structural increases in the sustainable level of GDP growth.\n\nSome critics of the \"culture of work\" such as anarchist Bob Black see employment as overemphasized culturally in modern countries. Such critics often propose quitting jobs when possible, working less, reassessing the cost of living to this end, creation of jobs which are \"fun\" as opposed to \"work,\" and creating cultural norms where work is seen as unhealthy. These people advocate an \"anti-work\" ethic for life.\n\nAs a result of productivity, the work week declined considerably during the 19th century. By the 1920s in the U.S. the average work week was 49 hours, but the work week was reduced to 40 hours (after which overtime premium was applied) as part of the National Industrial Recovery Act of 1933. At the time of the Great Depression of the 1930s, it was believed that due to the enormous productivity gains due to electrification, mass production and agricultural mechanization, there was no need for a large number of previously employed workers.\n\nSocieties try a number of different measures to get as many people as possible into work, and various societies have experienced close to full employment for extended periods, particularly during the Post-World War II economic expansion. The United Kingdom in the 1950s and 1960s averaged 1.6% unemployment, while in Australia the 1945 \"White Paper on Full Employment in Australia\" established a government policy of full employment, which policy lasted until the 1970s when the government ran out of money.\n\nHowever, mainstream economic discussions of full employment since the 1970s suggest that attempts to reduce the level of unemployment below the natural rate of unemployment will fail, resulting only in less output and more inflation.\n\nIncreases in the demand for labour will move the economy along the demand curve, increasing wages and employment. The demand for labour in an economy is derived from the demand for goods and services. As such, if the demand for goods and services in the economy increases, the demand for labour will increase, increasing employment and wages.\n\nThere are many ways to stimulate demand for goods and services. Increasing wages to the working class (those more likely to spend the increased funds on goods and services, rather than various types of savings, or commodity purchases) is one theory proposed. Increased wages are believed to be more effective in boosting demand for goods and services than central banking strategies that put the increased money supply mostly into the hands of wealthy persons and institutions. Monetarists suggest that increasing money supply in general will increase short-term demand. Long-term the increased demand will be negated by inflation. A rise in fiscal expenditures is another strategy for boosting aggregate demand.\n\nProviding aid to the unemployed is a strategy used to prevent cutbacks in consumption of goods and services which can lead to a vicious cycle of further job losses and further decreases in consumption/demand. Many countries aid the unemployed through social welfare programs. These unemployment benefits include unemployment insurance, unemployment compensation, welfare and subsidies to aid in retraining. The main goal of these programs is to alleviate short-term hardships and, more importantly, to allow workers more time to search for a job.\n\nA direct demand-side solution to unemployment is government-funded employment of the able-bodied poor. This was notably implemented in Britain from the 17th century until 1948 in the institution of the workhouse, which provided jobs for the unemployed with harsh conditions and poor wages to dissuade their use. A modern alternative is a job guarantee, where the government guarantees work at a living wage.\n\nTemporary measures can include public works programs such as the Works Progress Administration. Government-funded employment is not widely advocated as a solution to unemployment, except in times of crisis; this is attributed to the public sector jobs' existence depending directly on the tax receipts from private sector employment.\nIn the U.S., the unemployment insurance allowance one receives is based solely on previous income (not time worked, family size, etc.) and usually compensates for one-third of one's previous income. To qualify, one must reside in their respective state for at least a year and work. The system was established by the Social Security Act of 1935. Although 90% of citizens are covered by unemployment insurance, less than 40% apply for and receive benefits. However, the number applying for and receiving benefits increases during recessions. In cases of highly seasonal industries, the system provides income to workers during the off seasons, thus encouraging them to stay attached to the industry.\nAccording to classical economic theory, markets reach equilibrium where supply equals demand; everyone who wants to sell at the market price can. Those who do not want to sell at this price do not; in the labour market this is classical unemployment. Monetary policy and fiscal policy can both be used to increase short-term growth in the economy, increasing the demand for labour and decreasing unemployment.\n\nHowever, the labor market is not 100% efficient, although it may be more efficient than the bureaucracy. Some argue that minimum wages and union activity keep wages from falling, which means too many people want to sell their labour at the going price but cannot. This assumes perfect competition exists in the labour market, specifically that no single entity is large enough to affect wage levels and that employees are similar in ability.\n\nAdvocates of supply-side policies believe those policies can solve this by making the labour market more flexible. These include removing the minimum wage and reducing the power of unions. Supply-siders argue the reforms increase long-term growth by reducing labour costs. This increased supply of goods and services requires more workers, increasing employment. It is argued that supply-side policies, which include cutting taxes on businesses and reducing regulation, create jobs, reduce unemployment and decrease labour's share of national income. Other supply-side policies include education to make workers more attractive to employers.\n\nThere are relatively limited historical records on unemployment because it has not always been acknowledged or measured systematically. Industrialization involves economies of scale that often prevent individuals from having the capital to create their own jobs to be self-employed. An individual who cannot either join an enterprise or create a job is unemployed. As individual farmers, ranchers, spinners, doctors and merchants are organized into large enterprises, those who cannot join or compete become unemployed.\n\nRecognition of unemployment occurred slowly as economies across the world industrialized and bureaucratized. Before this, traditional self sufficient native societies have no concept of unemployment. The recognition of the concept of \"unemployment\" is best exemplified through the well documented historical records in England. For example, in 16th century England no distinction was made between vagrants and the jobless; both were simply categorized as \"sturdy beggars\", to be punished and moved on.\n\nThe closing of the monasteries in the 1530s increased poverty, as the church had helped the poor. In addition, there was a significant rise in enclosure during the Tudor period. Also the population was rising. Those unable to find work had a stark choice: starve or break the law. In 1535, a bill was drawn up calling for the creation of a system of public works to deal with the problem of unemployment, to be funded by a tax on income and capital. A law passed a year later allowed vagabonds to be whipped and hanged.\n\nIn 1547, a bill was passed that subjected vagrants to some of the more extreme provisions of the criminal law, namely two years servitude and branding with a \"V\" as the penalty for the first offense and death for the second. During the reign of Henry VIII, as many as 72,000 people are estimated to have been executed. In the 1576 Act each town was required to provide work for the unemployed.\n\nThe Elizabethan Poor Law of 1601, one of the world's first government-sponsored welfare programs, made a clear distinction between those who were unable to work and those able-bodied people who refused employment. Under the Poor Law systems of England and Wales, Scotland and Ireland a workhouse was a place where people who were unable to support themselves, could go to live and work.\n\n By 1776 some 1,912 parish and corporation workhouses had been established in England and Wales, housing almost 100,000 paupers.\n\nA description of the miserable living standards of the mill workers in England in 1844 was given by Fredrick Engels in \"The Condition of the Working-Class in England in 1844\". In the preface to the 1892 edition Engels notes that the extreme poverty he wrote about in 1844 had largely disappeared. David Ames Wells also noted that living conditions in England had improved near the end of the 19th century and that unemployment was low.\n\nThe scarcity and high price of labor in the U.S. during the 19th century was well documented by contemporary accounts, as in the following:\n\n\"The laboring classes are comparatively few in number, but this is counterbalanced by, and indeed, may be one of the causes of the eagerness by which they call in the use of machinery in almost every department of industry. Wherever it can be applied as a substitute for manual labor, it is universally and willingly resorted to ...It is this condition of the labor market, and this eager resort to machinery wherever it can be applied, to which, under the guidance of superior education and intelligence, the remarkable prosperity of the United States is due.\" Joseph Whitworth, 1854\n\nScarcity of labor was a factor in the economics of slavery in the United States.\n\nAs new territories were opened and Federal land sales conducted, land had to be cleared and new homesteads established. Hundreds of thousands of immigrants annually came to the U.S. and found jobs digging canals and building railroads. Almost all work during most of the 19th century was done by hand or with horses, mules, or oxen, because there was very little mechanization. The workweek during most of the 19th century was 60 hours. Unemployment at times was between one and two percent.\n\nThe tight labor market was a factor in productivity gains allowing workers to maintain or increase their nominal wages during the secular deflation that caused real wages to rise at various times in the 19th century, especially in the final decades.\n\nThere were labor shortages during WW I. Ford Motor Co. doubled wages to reduce turnover. After 1925 unemployment began to gradually rise.\n\nThe decade of the 1930s saw the Great Depression impact unemployment across the globe. One Soviet trading corporation in New York averaged 350 applications a day from Americans seeking jobs in the Soviet Union. In Germany the unemployment rate reached nearly 25% in 1932.\n\nIn some towns and cities in the north east of England, unemployment reached as high as 70%; the national unemployment level peaked at more than 22% in 1932. Unemployment in Canada reached 27% at the depth of the Depression in 1933. In 1929, the U.S. unemployment rate averaged 3%.\nIn the U.S., the Works Progress Administration (1935–43) was the largest make-work program. It hired men (and some women) off the relief roles (\"dole\") typically for unskilled labor.\n\nIn Cleveland, Ohio, the unemployment rate was 60%; in Toledo, Ohio, 80%. There were two million homeless people migrating across the United States. Over 3 million unemployed young men were taken out of the cities and placed into 2600+ work camps managed by the Civilian Conservation Corps.\n\nUnemployment in the United Kingdom fell later in the 1930s as the depression eased, and remained low (in six figures) after World War II.\n\nFredrick Mills found that in the U.S., 51% of the decline in work hours was due to the fall in production and 49% was from increased productivity.\nBy 1972 unemployment in the UK had crept back up above 1,000,000, and was even higher by the end of the decade, with inflation also being high. Although the monetarist economic policies of Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government saw inflation reduced after 1979, unemployment soared in the early 1980s, exceeding 3,000,000—a level not seen for some 50 years—by 1982. This represented one in eight of the workforce, with unemployment exceeding 20% in some parts of the United Kingdom which had relied on the now-declining industries such as coal mining.\n\nHowever, this was a time of high unemployment in all major industrialised nations. By the spring of 1983, unemployment in the United Kingdom had risen by 6% in the previous 12 months; compared to 10% in Japan, 23% in the United States of America and 34% in West Germany (seven years before reunification).\n\nUnemployment in the United Kingdom remained above 3,000,000 until the spring of 1987, by which time the economy was enjoying a boom. By the end of 1989, unemployment had fallen to 1,600,000. However, inflation had reached 7.8% and the following year it reached a nine-year high of 9.5%; leading to increased interest rates.\n\nAnother recession began during 1990 and lasted until 1992. Unemployment began to increase and by the end of 1992 nearly 3,000,000 in the United Kingdom were unemployed. Then came a strong economic recovery. With inflation down to 1.6% by 1993, unemployment then began to fall rapidly, standing at 1,800,000 by early 1997.\n\nThe official unemployment rate in the 16 EU countries that use the Euro rose to 10% in December 2009 as a result of another recession. Latvia had the highest unemployment rate in the EU at 22.3% for November 2009. Europe's young workers have been especially hard hit. In November 2009, the unemployment rate in the EU27 for those aged 15–24 was 18.3%. For those under-25, the unemployment rate in Spain was 43.8%. Unemployment has risen in two-thirds of European countries since 2010.\n\nInto the 21st century, unemployment in the United Kingdom remained low and the economy remaining strong, while at this time several other European economies—namely, France and Germany (reunified a decade earlier)—experienced a minor recession and a substantial rise in unemployment.\n\nIn 2008, when the recession brought on another increase in the United Kingdom, after 15 years of economic growth and no major rises in unemployment. Early in 2009, unemployment passed the 2,000,000 mark, by which time economists were predicting it would soon reach 3,000,000. However, the end of the recession was declared in January 2010 and unemployment peaked at nearly 2,700,000 in 2011, appearing to ease fears of unemployment reaching 3,000,000. The unemployment rate of Britain's young black people was 47.4% in 2011. 2013/2014 has seen the employment rate increase from 1,935,836 to 2,173,012 as supported by showing the UK is creating more job opportunities and forecasts the rate of increase in 2014/2015 will be another 7.2%.\n\nA 26 April 2005 \"Asia Times\" article notes that, \"In regional giant South Africa, some 300,000 textile workers have lost their jobs in the past two years due to the influx of Chinese goods\". The increasing U.S. trade deficit with China cost 2.4 million American jobs between 2001-2008, according to a study by the Economic Policy Institute (EPI). From 2000-2007, the United States lost a total of 3.2 million manufacturing jobs. 12.1% of US military veterans who had served after the September 11 attacks in 2001 were unemployed as of 2011; 29.1% of male veterans aged 18–24 were unemployed. As of September 2016, the total veteran unemployment rate was 4.3 percent. By September 2017, that figure had dropped to 3 percent.\n\nAbout 25,000,000 people in the world's thirty richest countries will have lost their jobs between the end of 2007 and the end of 2010 as the economic downturn pushes most countries into recession. In April 2010, the U.S. unemployment rate was 9.9%, but the government's broader U-6 unemployment rate was 17.1%. In April 2012, the unemployment rate was 4.6% in Japan. In a 2012 news story, the \"Financial Post\" reported, \"Nearly 75 million youth are unemployed around the world, an increase of more than 4 million since 2007. In the European Union, where a debt crisis followed the financial crisis, the youth unemployment rate rose to 18% last year from 12.5% in 2007, the ILO report shows.\" In March 2018, according to U.S. Unemployment Rate Statistics, the unemployment rate was 4.1%, below the 4.5 to 5.0% norm. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17439599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17439599", "title": "World car", "text": "World car\n\nThe phrase world car is an engineering strategy used to describe an automobile designed to suit the needs of global automotive markets with minimal changes in each market it is sold in. The goal of a world car program is to save costs and increase quality by standardizing parts and design for a single vehicle in a certain class, in hopes of using the cost savings to deliver a superior product that satisfies expectations for quality, appeal and performance of automobile buyers worldwide. Examples include the Ford Mondeo and Focus, modern no-frills cars such as the Fiat Palio, Dacia Logan and VW Fox along with luxury cars such as the BMW 3 Series and Lexus LS.\n\nIn the pioneering days of the automotive industry, automobiles were primarily designed for the local market that the manufacturer was based in, such as the Ford Model T, which was engineered to cope with the rural lifestyle and rugged terrain that most automobile buyers in the United States had to contend with in the early days of the automobile. However, the Model T was arguably the first world car, with knock-down kits being assembled in locations such as Canada, England and Argentina.\n\nThe two largest manufacturers at the time, Ford Motor Company and General Motors (GM), both of the United States, were focused on expanding globally, with General Motors either acquiring or partnering with local automobile manufacturers, such as Opel of Germany, Vauxhall of England and Holden of Australia, while Ford created overseas subsidiaries such as Ford of Germany, Ford of Britain and Ford Australia. Both Ford and GM's overseas subsidiaries would later develop their own line of bespoke automobiles independently of their American parents.\n\nIn 1933, Ford introduced their first car designed for European tastes that was not sold in the United States, the Ford Model Y, developed by Ford of Britain, and also manufactured by Ford of Germany as the Ford Köln. General Motors responded with the Opel 1.2 litre, developed by GM in the United States but exclusively built and sold in Europe. This would begin the divergence of vehicles sold by Ford and General Motors worldwide. In Australia, the Coupé utility was beginning to catch on in popularity, as “a vehicle to go to church in on a Sunday and which can carry our pigs to market on Mondays.”\n\nThe Volkswagen Beetle was a success worldwide due to affordability and economy. To a lesser extent, its European contemporaries succeeded in global markets with the original Mini and Citroën 2CV.\n\nThe Toyota Corolla and Nissan Sunny were the first two-passenger cars from Japan to be popular worldwide, thanks to a combination of durability and economy.\n\nThe 1970s energy crisis saw Japanese and European manufacturers make inroads worldwide as American and Australian manufacturers focused on larger and less fuel-efficient cars.\n\nIn the 1980s, compacts including the Beetle evolved into the C-segment, featuring vehicles such as the Volkswagen Golf and Ford Escort, along with the supermini class such as the Opel Corsa and Fiat Panda, which has become the leading segment in the European car market.\n\nJapanese domestic market vehicles increasingly focused on performance or luxury, featuring exclusive vehicles or variants of existing cars unique to Japan, such as the Nissan Laurel and Toyota Soarer.\n\nBuoyed by exports to the United States, Volkswagen opened a plant in Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania in 1978. Honda, Nissan, Toyota along with an Isuzu-Subaru joint venture also opened plants in the United States during the 1980s, while their Japanese compatriots Mazda, Suzuki and Mitsubishi Motors partnered with their American affiliates, Ford, General Motors and Chrysler, respectively, to create joint ventures in the lucrative North American market.\n\nThe Honda Accord was the first vehicle from a foreign brand that became the top selling car in the United States in 1989. From then on, Japanese manufacturers designed their midsize sedans to primarily appeal to the lucrative family sedan sector in the United States, with their sales in Japan and other markets an afterthought. Toyota launched the first Camry that exceeded Japanese width restrictions in 1991, a successful attempt that saw them surpass the Accord and Ford Taurus for best-selling passenger car in the United States, and Honda launched a bespoke Accord for the North American market in 1997 that was not sold in Japan or Europe.\n\nModels in the C-segment have usually shared a platform worldwide, with minimal styling changes for each market they are sold in. The most successful C-segment car is the Toyota Corolla.\n\nThe Ford Mondeo was the first modern attempt by an automaker to make a mainstream D-segment car that specifically designed to successful in the United States and Europe and was billed as a \"world car\", succeeding the Ford Sierra in Europe and the Ford Tempo in North America.\n\nDespite being a global design initially, world cars have to have specific changes made per national laws/regulations, or cultural differences / market tastes where these are divergent. For example, fuel prices vary greatly in different countries, and this affects the choice of engine fitted.\n\nOne vehicle that is an example of this is the Volkswagen Golf (currently sold in the Mk VI version), offered only with a 2.5-litre 5-cylinder petrol in the United States and Canada, but in Europe, it has 1.4, 1.4 TSI turbo, 1.6, 2.0, 2.0 turbo 4-cylinder and 3.2 V6 petrol and 1.9 SDI diesel and 2.0 TDI turbodiesel engines. The differences between market needs are not just reflected by equipment levels (in Europe the Golf offers multiple trim levels, compared to North America where it is only available in two versions, and sold as a premium hatchback rather than a workaday family car as in Europe.\n"}
