{"id": "53869607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53869607", "title": "100 Years Later", "text": "100 Years Later\n\n100 Years Later is a 2016 British documentary film directed, written, and produced by John Lubbock. The film follows the work of historian Ara Sarafian, executive director of the Gomidas Institute in London, in his efforts to create dialogue in Turkey among Armenians, Kurds, and Turks on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide on 24 April 2015. The film includes appearances by Selahattin Demirtaş and İsmail Beşikçi.\n\n"}
{"id": "52820723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52820723", "title": "1986 in Danish television", "text": "1986 in Danish television\n\nThis is a list of Danish television related events from 1986.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52995956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52995956", "title": "2010 in Estonian television", "text": "2010 in Estonian television\n\nThis is a list of Estonian television related events from 2010.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40390506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40390506", "title": "Ace of Spades: Bad Destiny", "text": "Ace of Spades: Bad Destiny\n\nAce of Spades: Bad Destiny () is a 2012 Montenegrin drama film directed by Draško Đurović. The film was selected as the Montenegrin entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 86th Academy Awards, It is the first time Montenegro have submitted a film for the Best Foreign Language Oscar, but it was not nominated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22269276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22269276", "title": "Agder Teater", "text": "Agder Teater\n\nAgder Teater is a Norwegian theatre based in Kristiansand. It was established in 1991, and has been the regional theatre for Agder since 1995. \n\nIts first theatre director was Bentein Baardson, who led the theatre from 1991 to 1994. Alex Scherpf has been theatre director since 2005.\n"}
{"id": "31033927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31033927", "title": "Angel (Mika Newton song)", "text": "Angel (Mika Newton song)\n\n\"Angel\" is a song by Mika Newton which represented Ukraine at the Eurovision Song Contest 2011, held in Düsseldorf, Germany, which came 4th out of 25 in the final, scoring 159 points.\n\nThe song won both the televote and jury voting in Ukraine's national final on February 26, 2011. However, because the voting procedure in this final was seen as inadequate a new final was scheduled to be held on March 3, 2011. After Jamala and withdrew for this new final the days before it was scheduled to be held Newton became the artist to represent Ukraine, but on March 3, 2011, it was unknown which song she would perform on Eurovision. The next day Newton and the competition's organizer NTU declared that \"Angel\" would be sent to the Eurovision Song Contest 2011 \"with better arrangements\".\n\nSand animator Kseniya Simonova accompanied Newton during the Eurovision Song Contest 2011 performance.\n"}
{"id": "55915567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55915567", "title": "Artists to Antarctica", "text": "Artists to Antarctica\n\nThe Artists to Antarctica programme, also known as the Antarctica New Zealand Arts Fellowship and the Invited Artists Programme Antarctic Arts Fellows, is a community engagement programme run by Antarctica New Zealand, the government agency conducting New Zealand's activities in Antarctica.\n\nRecipients of Antarctica New Zealand Arts Fellowship under the Artists to Antarctica Programme and the Invited Artists Programme include:\nAlso see:\n"}
{"id": "48499143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48499143", "title": "BNS Surovi", "text": "BNS Surovi\n\nBNS \"Surovi\" is a River class minesweeper of the Bangladeshi Navy. She is serving Bangladeshi Navy from 1995.\n\nThis ship served in Royal Navy as \"HMS Dovey (M2005)\". She was commissioned on 30 March 1985. She was assigned to the Clyde Division of Royal Navy Reserve. She was withdrawn from service in 1993. In 1995, she was sold to Bangladesh.\n\n\"BNS Surovi\" was commissioned in Bangladesh Navy on 27 April 1995. She is currently being used as a patrol ship.\n\nThe ship carries one Bofors 40 mm Mark III gun which can be used in both anti-surface and anti-air role. She also carries two L44A1 7.62 mm general purpose machine guns.\n\n"}
{"id": "53471067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53471067", "title": "Bahçelerde Menekşe Uy Gelin", "text": "Bahçelerde Menekşe Uy Gelin\n\nBahçelerde Menekşe Uy Gelin is a Turkish folkloric tune (Kaşık Havası).Bahçelerde Menekşe Uy Gelin is a form of the Turkish folkloric tune Kaşık Havası.The meter is .There are similar folkloric tunes known as \"Dam Başında Oturur\".\n"}
{"id": "40367143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40367143", "title": "Baïbokoum Airport", "text": "Baïbokoum Airport\n\nBaïbokoum Airport is a public use airport located near Baïbokoum, Logone Oriental, Chad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35516302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35516302", "title": "Bekwil language", "text": "Bekwil language\n\nBekwel (Bekwil) is a Bantu language of the Republic of the Congo. There are some 10,000 speakers there, with a quarter that number across the border in Gabon, and perhaps a similar on the opposite side in Cameroon. It is rather close to Nzime (Koonzime).\n\nMaho (2009) considers Nkonabeeb (Konabembe) to be a dialect of Bekwil rather than of Mpumpong.\n"}
{"id": "3457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3457", "title": "Belarus", "text": "Belarus\n\nBelarus (; , ), officially the Republic of Belarus (, ), formerly known by its Russian name Byelorussia or Belorussia (), is a landlocked country in Eastern Europe bordered by Russia to the northeast, Ukraine to the south, Poland to the west, and Lithuania and Latvia to the northwest. Its capital and most populous city is Minsk. Over 40% of its is forested. Its major economic sectors are service industries and manufacturing. Until the 20th century, different states at various times controlled the lands of modern-day Belarus, including the Principality of Polotsk (11th to 14th centuries), the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, and the Russian Empire.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 1917 Russian Revolution, Belarus declared independence as the Belarusian People's Republic, which was conquered by Soviet Russia. The Socialist Soviet Republic of Byelorussia became a founding constituent republic of the Soviet Union in 1922 and was renamed as the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic (Byelorussian SSR). Belarus lost almost half of its territory to Poland after the Polish–Soviet War of 1919–1921. Much of the borders of Belarus took their modern shape in 1939, when some lands of the Second Polish Republic were reintegrated into it after the Soviet invasion of Poland, and were finalized after World War II. During WWII, military operations devastated Belarus, which lost about a third of its population and more than half of its economic resources. The republic was redeveloped in the post-war years. In 1945 the Byelorussian SSR became a founding member of the United Nations, along with the Soviet Union and the Ukrainian SSR.\n\nThe parliament of the republic proclaimed the sovereignty of Belarus on 1990, and during the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Belarus declared independence on 1991. Alexander Lukashenko has served as the country's first president since 1994. Belarus has been labeled \"Europe's last dictatorship\" by some Western journalists, on account of Lukashenko's self-described authoritarian style of government. Lukashenko continued a number of Soviet-era policies, such as state ownership of large sections of the economy. Elections under Lukashenko's rule have been widely criticized as unfair; and according to many countries and organizations, political opposition has been violently suppressed. Belarus is also the last country in Europe using the death penalty. Belarus's Democracy Index rating is the lowest in Europe, the country is labelled as \"not free\" by Freedom House, as \"repressed\" in the Index of Economic Freedom, and is rated as by far the worst country for press freedom in Europe in the 2013–14 Press Freedom Index published by Reporters Without Borders, which ranks Belarus 157th out of 180 nations.\n\nIn 2000, Belarus and Russia signed a treaty for greater cooperation, forming the Union State. Over 70% of Belarus's population of 9.49 million resides in urban areas. More than 80% of the population is ethnic Belarusian, with sizable minorities of Russians, Poles and Ukrainians. Since a referendum in 1995, the country has had two official languages: Belarusian and Russian. The Constitution of Belarus does not declare any official religion, although the primary religion in the country is Eastern Orthodox Christianity. The second-most widespread religion, Roman Catholicism, has a much smaller following; nevertheless, Belarus celebrates both Orthodox and Catholic versions of Christmas and Easter as national holidays. Belarus is a member of the United Nations since its founding, the Commonwealth of Independent States, CSTO, EEU, and the Non-Aligned Movement. Belarus has shown no aspirations for joining the European Union but nevertheless maintains a bilateral relationship with the organisation, and likewise participates in two EU projects: the Eastern Partnership and the Baku Initiative.\n\nThe name \"Belarus\" is closely related with the term \"Belaya Rus\", i.e., \"White Rus'\". There are several claims to the origin of the name \"White Rus'.\" An ethno-religious theory suggests that the name used to describe the part of old Ruthenian lands within the Grand Duchy of Lithuania that had been populated mostly by early Christianized Slavs, as opposed to Black Ruthenia, which was predominantly inhabited by pagan Balts.\n\nAn alternate explanation for the name comments on the white clothing worn by the local Slavic population. A third theory suggests that the old Rus' lands that were not conquered by the Tatars (i.e., Polotsk, Vitebsk and Mogilev) had been referred to as \"White Rus'\".\n\nThe name \"Rus\" is often conflated with its Latin forms \"Russia\" and \"Ruthenia\", thus Belarus is often referred to as \"White Russia\" or \"White Ruthenia\". The name first appeared in German and Latin medieval literature; the chronicles of Jan of Czarnków mention the imprisonment of Lithuanian grand duke Jogaila and his mother at \"\" in 1381. In some languages, including German, Afrikaans and Dutch, the country is generally called \"White Russia\" to this day (' and ' respectively).\n\nThe Latin term \"Alba Russia\" was used again by Pope Pius VI in 1783 to recognize the Society of Jesus there, exclaiming \".\" The first known use of \"White Russia\" to refer to Belarus was in the late-16th century by Englishman Sir Jerome Horsey, who was known for his close contacts with the Russian Royal Court. During the 17th century, the Russian tsars used \"White Rus\" to describe the lands added from the Grand Duchy of Lithuania.\nThe term \"Belorussia\" (, the latter part similar but spelled and stressed differently from Росси́я, \"Russia\") first rose in the days of the Russian Empire, and the Russian Tsar was usually styled \"the Tsar of All the Russias\", as \"Russia\" or the \"Russian Empire\" was formed by three parts of Russia—the Great, Little, and White. This asserted that the territories are all Russian and all the peoples are also Russian; in the case of the Belarusians, they were variants of the Russian people.\n\nAfter the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917, the term \"White Russia\" caused some confusion, as it was also the name of the military force that opposed the red Bolsheviks. During the period of the Byelorussian SSR, the term \"Byelorussia\" was embraced as part of a national consciousness. In western Belarus under Polish control, \"Byelorussia\" became commonly used in the regions of Białystok and Grodno during the interwar period.\n\nThe term \"Byelorussia\" (its names in other languages such as English being based on the Russian form) was only used officially until 1991, when the Supreme Soviet of the Byelorussian SSR decreed by law that the new independent republic should be called \"Republic of Belarus\" ( spelled in Russian), as well its abridged form should be \"Belarus\". The law decreed that all the forms of the new term should be transliterated into other languages from their Belarusian language forms. The use of Byelorussian SSR and any abbreviations thereof were allowed from 1991 to 1993. Conservative forces in the newly independent Belarus did not support the name change and opposed its inclusion in the 1991 draft of the Constitution of Belarus.\n\nAccordingly, the name \"Byelorussia\" was replaced by \"Belarus\" in English. Likewise, the adjective \"Belorussian\" or \"Byelorussian\" was replaced by \"Belarusian\" in English. \"Belarusian\" is closer to the original Belarusian term of '. Belarusian intelligentsia in the Stalin era attempted to change the name from \"Byelorussia\" to a form of \"Krivia\" because of the supposed connection with Russia. Some nationalists object to the name for the same reason. Several local newspapers kept the old name of the country in Russian in their names, for example ', which is the localized publication of a popular Russian newspaper. Also, those who wish for Belarus to be reunited with Russia continue to use \"Belorussia\". Officially, the full name of the country is \"Republic of Belarus\" (, , ).\n\nFrom 5000 to 2000 BC, Bandkeramik cultures predominated. In addition, remains from the Dnieper-Donets culture were found in Belarus and parts of Ukraine. Cimmerians and other pastoralists roamed through the area by 1,000 BC, and by 500 AD, Slavs had taken up residence, which was circumscribed by the Scythians who roamed its outskirts. Invaders from Asia, among whom were the Huns and Avars, swept through c. 400–600 AD, but were unable to dislodge the Slavic presence.\n\nThe region that is now Belarus was first settled by Baltic tribes in the 3rd century. Around the 5th century, the area was taken over by Slavic tribes. The takeover was partially due to the lack of military coordination of the Balts but the gradual assimilation of the Balts into Slavic culture was peaceful in nature.\n\nIn the 9th century some principalities arose on the territory of modern Belarus. Among them was the Principality of Polotsk that for most of the time was effectively an independent State (apart from about 20 years when it was a Vassal of Kievan Rus'). The Principality of Polotsk was the first nation state to be established on the land of Belarus.\n\nMany early Rus' principalities were virtually razed or severely affected by a major Mongol invasion in the 13th century, but the lands of modern Belarus avoided the brunt of the invasion and were eventually joined the Grand Duchy of Lithuania.\n\nThere are no sources of military seizure, but the annals affirm the alliance and united foreign policy of Polotsk and Lithuania for decades. For example, the Chronicle of Novgorod informs about \"Izyaslav had been set to be Knyaz in Luki and covered Novgorod from the Lithuanians\" in 1198 when Luki is situated on the east from Polotsk.\nThe Grand Duchy of Lithuania, whose territory started its existence between Nemunas and Neris rivers and existed in the center of Europe in the 13th–18th centuries and comprised entire territories of contemporary Belarus, Ukraine, partially Poland, Lithuania and Latvia and stretched from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea.\n\nIncorporation into the Grand Duchy of Lithuania resulted in an economic, political and ethno-cultural unification of Belarusian lands. Of the principalities held by the Duchy, nine of them were settled by a population that would eventually become Belarusian people. During this time, the Duchy was involved in several military campaigns, including fighting on the side of Poland against the Teutonic Knights at the Battle of Grunwald in 1410; the joint victory allowed the Duchy to control the northwestern borderlands of Eastern Europe.\n\nThe Muscovites, led by Ivan III of Moscow, began military campaigns in 1486 in an attempt to incorporate the lands of Kievan Rus', specifically the territories of modern Belarus, Russia and Ukraine.\n\nOn 2 February 1386, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the Kingdom of Poland were joined in a personal union through a marriage of their rulers. This union set in motion the developments that eventually resulted in the formation of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, created in 1569 by the Union of Lublin.\n\nThe Lithuanian nobles was forced to go for rapprochement because of the threat coming from Muscovy.\nTo strengthen the independence in the format of the union, three editions of the Statutes of Lithuania were issued in the 16th century. \nThe third Article of the Statute establishes that all lands of Grand Duchy of Lithuania will be eternally in Grand Duchy of Lithuania and never enter as a part of other states. It allowed to own the land within Grand Duchy of Lithuania only to own families. Anyone from outside Duchy would be honored with property only own it after swearing to Grand Duke of Lithuania. These articles were aimed to defend the rights of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania nobility against Polish, Prussian and other aristocracy of Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nIn the years following the union, the process of gradual Polonization of both Lithuanians and Ruthenians gained steady momentum. In culture and social life, both the Polish language and Catholicism became dominant, and in 1696, Polish replaced Ruthenian as the official language—with the Ruthenian language being banned from administrative use. However, the Ruthenian peasants, continued to speak their own language and remained faithful to the Belarusian Greek Catholic Church. Statutes were initially only issued in Ruthenian language and later also in Polish. Around 1840 the Statutes were banned by the Russian tsar following the November Uprising. Modern Ukrainian lands used it until 1860s.\n\nThe union between Poland and Lithuania ended in 1795 with the Third Partition of Poland by Imperial Russia, Prussia, and Austria. The Belarusian territories acquired by the Russian Empire under the reign of Catherine II were included into the Belarusian Governorate () in 1796 and held until their occupation by the German Empire during World War I.\nUnder Nicholas I and Alexander III the national cultures were repressed. Policies of Polonization changed by Russification, which included the return to Orthodox Christianity of Belorusian Uniates. Belarusian language was banned in schools while in neighboring Samogitia primary school education with Samogitian literacy was allowed.\n\nIn a Russification drive in the 1840s, Nicholas I prohibited use of the Belarusian language in public schools, campaigned against Belarusian publications and tried to pressure those who had converted to Catholicism under the Poles to reconvert to the Orthodox faith. In 1863, economic and cultural pressure exploded in a revolt, led by Konstanty Kalinowski. After the failed revolt, the Russian government reintroduced the use of Cyrillic to Belarusian in 1864 and no documents in Belarusian were permitted by the Russian government until 1905.\n\nDuring the negotiations of the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, Belarus first declared independence under German occupation on 1918, forming the Belarusian People's Republic. Immediately afterwards, the Polish–Soviet War ignited, and the territory of Belarus was divided between Poland and Soviet Russia.\nThe Rada of the Belarusian Democratic Republic exists as a government in exile ever since then; in fact, it is currently the world's longest serving government in exile.\n\nThe Belarusian People's Republic was a first attempt to create an independent Belarusian state under name \"Belarus\". Despite the many efforts state ceased to exist cause territory was occupied and controlled by German Imperial Army, Imperial Russian Army and than Red Army in World War I times. It existed only from 1918 to 1919 but created prerequisites for the formation of the state idea around the newly name \"Belarus\" on these lands. The choice of the name was probably based the fact that the intelligent core of young government was educated in the tsardom universities with a corresponding education around the ideology of West-Russianism.\n\nThe Republic of Central Lithuania was a short-lived political entity, which was the last attempt to restore Lithuania in the historical confederacy state (it was also supposed to create Lithuania Upper and Lithuania Lower). The republic was created in 1920 following the staged rebellion of soldiers of the 1st Lithuanian–Belarusian Division of the Polish Army under Lucjan Żeligowski. Centered on the historical capital of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, Vilna (, ), for 18 months the entity served as a buffer state between Poland, upon which it depended, and Lithuania, which claimed the area. After a variety of delays, a disputed election took place on 8 January 1922, and the territory was annexed to Poland. Żeligowski later in his memoir which was published in London in 1943 condemned the annexation of Republic by Poland, as well as the policy of closing Belarusian schools and general disregard of Marshal Józef Piłsudski's confederation plans by Polish ally. Years earlier interrogation report of 19-year-old revolutionary Pilsudski of March 10, 1887 indicated that he called himself a \"belarusian, nobleman\".\n\nA part of Belarus under Russian rule emerged as the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic (Byelorussian SSR) in 1919. Soon thereafter it merged to form the Lithuanian-Byelorussian SSR. The contested lands were divided between Poland and the Soviet Union after the war ended in 1921, and the Byelorussian SSR became a founding member of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1922. The western part of modern Belarus remained part of Poland.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s, Soviet agricultural and economic policies, including collectivization and five-year plans for the national economy, led to famine and political repression.\nIn 1939, Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union invaded and occupied Poland, marking the beginning of World War II. The Soviets invaded and annexed much of eastern Poland, which had been part of the country since the Peace of Riga two decades earlier. Much of the northern section of this area was added to the Byelorussian SSR, and now constitutes West Belarus. The Soviet-controlled Byelorussian People's Council officially took control of the territories, whose populations consisted of a mixture of Poles, Ukrainians, Belarusians and Jews, on 28 October 1939 in Białystok. Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union in 1941. The Brest Fortress, which had been annexed in 1939, at this time was subjected to one of the most destructive onslaughts that happened during the war. Statistically, the Byelorussian SSR was the hardest-hit Soviet republic in World War II; it remained in Nazi hands until 1944. During that time, Germany destroyed 209 out of 290 cities in the republic, 85% of the republic's industry, and more than one million buildings. The Nazi \"Generalplan Ost\" called for the extermination, expulsion or enslavement of most or all Belarusians for the purpose of providing more living space in the East for Germans.\n\nCasualties were estimated to be between 2 and 3 million (about a quarter to one-third of the total population), while the Jewish population of Belarus was devastated during the Holocaust and never recovered. The population of Belarus did not regain its pre-war level until 1971. It was also after this conflict that the final borders of Belarus were set by Stalin when parts of Belarusian territory were given to the recently annexed Lithuania.\n\nAfter the war, Belarus was among the 51 founding countries of the United Nations Charter and as such it was allowed an additional vote at the UN, on top of the Soviet Union's vote. Vigorous postwar reconstruction promptly followed the end of the war and the Byelorussian SSR became a major center of manufacturing in the western USSR, creating jobs and attracting ethnic Russians. The borders of the Byelorussian SSR and Poland were redrawn, in accord with the 1919-proposed Curzon Line.\n\nJoseph Stalin implemented a policy of Sovietization to isolate the Byelorussian SSR from Western influences. This policy involved sending Russians from various parts of the Soviet Union and placing them in key positions in the Byelorussian SSR government. After Stalin's death in 1953, Nikita Khrushchev continued his predecessor's cultural hegemony program, stating, \"The sooner we all start speaking Russian, the faster we shall build communism.\"\n\nIn 1986, the Byelorussian SSR was exposed to significant nuclear fallout from the explosion at the Chernobyl power plant in the neighboring Ukrainian SSR.\n\nIn June 1988, the archaeologist and leader of the Christian Conservative Party of the BPF Zyanon Paznyak discovered mass graves of victims executed in 1937–41 at Kurapaty, near Minsk. Some nationalists contend that this discovery is proof that the Soviet government was trying to erase the Belarusian people, causing Belarusian nationalists to seek independence.\nIn March 1990, elections for seats in the Supreme Soviet of the Byelorussian SSR took place. Though the pro-independence Belarusian Popular Front took only 10% of the seats, the populace was content with the selection of the delegates. Belarus declared itself sovereign on 1990 by issuing the Declaration of State Sovereignty of the Belarusian Soviet Socialist Republic.\n\nWith the support of the Communist Party, the country's name was changed to the Republic of Belarus on 1991. Stanislav Shushkevich, the chairman of the Supreme Soviet of Belarus, met with Boris Yeltsin of Russia and Leonid Kravchuk of Ukraine on 1991 in Belavezhskaya Pushcha to formally declare the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the formation of the Commonwealth of Independent States.\n\nA national constitution was adopted in March 1994 in which the functions of prime minister were given to the President of Belarus.\n\nTwo-round elections for the presidency on ( 1994 and 1994) catapulted the formerly unknown Alexander Lukashenko into national prominence. He garnered 45% of the vote in the first round and 80% in the second, defeating Vyacheslav Kebich who received 14% of the vote. Lukashenko was re-elected in 2001, in 2006, in 2010 and again in 2015. Western governments, Amnesty International, and Human Rights Watch have criticized Lukashenko's authoritarian style of government.\n\nSince 2014, following years of embrace of Russian influence in the country, Lukashenko has pressed a revival of Belarusian identity, following the Russian annexation of Crimea and military intervention in Eastern Ukraine. For the first time, he delivered a speech in Belarusian (rather than Russian, which most people use), in which he said, \"We are not Russian—we are Belarusians\", and later encouraged the use of Belarusian. Trade disputes, a border dispute, and a much relaxed official attitude to dissident voices are all part of a weakening of the longtime warm relationship with Russia.\n\nBelarus lies between latitudes 51° and 57° N, and longitudes 23° and 33° E. Its extension from north to south is , from west to east is . It is landlocked, relatively flat, and contains large tracts of marshy land. About 40% of Belarus is covered by forests.\n\nMany streams and 11,000 lakes are found in Belarus. Three major rivers run through the country: the Neman, the Pripyat, and the Dnieper. The Neman flows westward towards the Baltic sea and the Pripyat flows eastward to the Dnieper; the Dnieper flows southward towards the Black Sea.\nThe highest point is Dzyarzhynskaya Hara (Dzyarzhynsk Hill) at , and the lowest point is on the Neman River at . The average elevation of Belarus is above sea level. The climate features mild to cold winters, with average January minimum temperatures ranging from in southwest (Brest) to in northeast (Vitebsk), and cool and moist summers with an average temperature of . Belarus has an average annual rainfall of . The country is in the transitional zone between continental climates and maritime climates.\n\nNatural resources include peat deposits, small quantities of oil and natural gas, granite, dolomite (limestone), marl, chalk, sand, gravel, and clay. About 70% of the radiation from neighboring Ukraine's 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster entered Belarusian territory, and about a fifth of Belarusian land (principally farmland and forests in the southeastern regions) was affected by radiation fallout. The United Nations and other agencies have aimed to reduce the level of radiation in affected areas, especially through the use of caesium binders and rapeseed cultivation, which are meant to decrease soil levels of caesium-137.\n\nBelarus borders five countries: Latvia to the north, Lithuania to the northwest, Poland to the west, Russia to the north and the east, and Ukraine to the south. Treaties in 1995 and 1996 demarcated Belarus's borders with Latvia and Lithuania, and Belarus ratified a 1997 treaty establishing the Belarus-Ukraine border in 2009. Belarus and Lithuania ratified final border demarcation documents in February 2007.\n\nBelarus is a presidential republic, governed by a president and the National Assembly. The term for each presidency is five years. Under the 1994 constitution, the president could serve for only two terms as president, but a change in the constitution in 2004 eliminated term limits. Alexander Lukashenko has been the president of Belarus since 1994. In 1996, Lukashenko called for a controversial vote to extend the presidential term from five to seven years, and as a result the election that was supposed to occur in 1999 was pushed back to 2001. The referendum on the extension was denounced as a \"fantastic\" fake by the chief electoral officer, Viktar Hanchar, who was removed from the office for official matters only during the campaign. The National Assembly is a bicameral parliament comprising the 110-member House of Representatives (the lower house) and the 64-member Council of the Republic (the upper house).\n\nThe House of Representatives has the power to appoint the prime minister, make constitutional amendments, call for a vote of confidence on the prime minister, and make suggestions on foreign and domestic policy. The Council of the Republic has the power to select various government officials, conduct an impeachment trial of the president, and accept or reject the bills passed by the House of Representatives. Each chamber has the ability to veto any law passed by local officials if it is contrary to the constitution.\n\nThe government includes a Council of Ministers, headed by the prime minister and five deputy prime ministers. The members of this council need not be members of the legislature and are appointed by the president. The judiciary comprises the Supreme Court and specialized courts such as the Constitutional Court, which deals with specific issues related to constitutional and business law. The judges of national courts are appointed by the president and confirmed by the Council of the Republic. For criminal cases, the highest court of appeal is the Supreme Court. The Belarusian Constitution forbids the use of special extrajudicial courts.\n\nIn the 2012 parliamentary election, 105 of the 110 members elected to the House of Representatives were not affiliated with any political party. The Communist Party of Belarus won 3 seats, and the Agrarian Party and Republican Party of Labour and Justice, one each. Most non-partisans represent a wide scope of social organizations such as workers' collectives, public associations, and civil society organizations, similar to the composition of the Soviet legislature.\n\nNeither the pro-Lukashenko parties, such as the Belarusian Socialist Sporting Party and the Republican Party of Labour and Justice, nor the People's Coalition 5 Plus opposition parties, such as the Belarusian People's Front and the United Civil Party of Belarus, won any seats in the 2004 elections. Groups such as the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) declared the election \"un-free\" because of the opposition parties' poor results and media bias in favor of the government.\n\nIn the 2006 presidential election, Lukashenko was opposed by Alaksandar Milinkievič, who represented a coalition of opposition parties, and by Alaksandar Kazulin of the Social Democrats. Kazulin was detained and beaten by police during protests surrounding the All Belarusian People's Assembly. Lukashenko won the election with 80% of the vote; the Russian Federation and the CIS deemed the vote open and fair while the OSCE and other organizations called the election unfair.\n\nAfter the December completion of the 2010 presidential election, Lukashenko was elected to a fourth straight term with nearly 80% of the vote in elections. The runner-up opposition leader Andrei Sannikov received less than 3% of the vote; independent observers criticized the election as fraudulent. When opposition protesters took to the streets in Minsk, many people, including most rival presidential candidates, were beaten and arrested by the state militia. Many of the candidates, including Sannikov, were sentenced to prison or house arrest for terms which are mainly and typically over four years. Six months later amid an unprecedented economic crisis, activists utilized social networking to initiate a fresh round of protests characterized by wordless hand-clapping.\n\nThe judicial system in Belarus lacks independence and is subject to political interference. Corrupt practices such as bribery often took place during tender processes, and whistleblower protection and national ombudsman are lacking in Belarus's anti-corruption system. However, there is a political will to fight against corruption in the government, and the government has made some progress in combating corruption, such as minimizing tax regulations in order to improve transparency in the tax office.\n\nLukashenko has described himself as having an \"authoritarian ruling style\". Western countries have described Belarus under Lukashenko as a dictatorship; the government has accused the same Western powers of trying to oust Lukashenko. The Council of Europe has barred Belarus from membership since 1997 for undemocratic voting and election irregularities in the November 1996 constitutional referendum and parliament by-elections.\n\nThe Belarusian government is also criticized for human rights violations and its persecution of non-governmental organisations, independent journalists, national minorities, and opposition politicians. In a testimony to the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, former United States Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice labeled Belarus as one of the world's six \"outposts of tyranny\". In response, the Belarusian government called the assessment \"quite far from reality\". The Viasna Human Rights Centre lists 11 political prisoners currently detained in Belarus. Among them is the human rights activist Ales Bialiatski, Vice President of International Federation for Human Rights and head of Viasna.\n\nLukashenko announced a new law in 2014 that will prohibit kolkhoz workers (around 9% of total work force) from leaving their jobs at will—a change of job and living location will require permission from governors. The law was compared with serfdom by Lukashenko himself. Similar regulations were introduced for the forestry industry in 2012.\n\nThe Byelorussian SSR was one of the two Soviet republics that joined the United Nations along with the Ukrainian SSR as one of the original 51 members in 1945. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, under international law, Belarus became the internationally recognized successor state to the Byelorussian SSR, retaining its UN membership.\n\nBelarus and Russia have been close trading partners and diplomatic allies since the breakup of the Soviet Union. Belarus is dependent on Russia for imports of raw materials and for its export market.\n\nThe union of Russia and Belarus, a supranational confederation, was established in a 1996–99 series of treaties that called for monetary union, equal rights, single citizenship, and a common foreign and defense policy. However, the future of the union has been placed in doubt because of Belarus's repeated delays of monetary union, the lack of a referendum date for the draft constitution, and a dispute over the petroleum trade.\n\nOn 11 December 2007, reports emerged that a framework for the new state was discussed between both countries. On 2008, Belarusian President Lukashenko said that he had named Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin the \"prime minister\" of the Russia-Belarus alliance. The significance of this act was not immediately clear; some incorrectly speculated that Putin would become president of a unified state of Russia and Belarus after stepping down as Russian president in May 2008.\n\nBelarus was a founding member of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). Belarus has trade agreements with several European Union member states (despite other member states' travel ban on Lukashenko and top officials), including neighboring Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland. Travel bans imposed by the European Union have been lifted in the past in order to allow Lukashenko to attend diplomatic meetings and also to engage his government and opposition groups in dialogue.\nBilateral relations with the United States are strained because the U.S. Department of State supports various anti-Lukashenko non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and also because the Belarusian government has made it increasingly difficult for United States-based organizations to operate within the country. Diplomatic relations remained tense, and in 2004, the United States passed the Belarus Democracy Act, which authorized funding for anti-government Belarusian NGOs, and prohibited loans to the Belarusian government, except for humanitarian purposes. Despite this political friction, the two countries do cooperate on intellectual property protection, prevention of human trafficking, technology crime, and disaster relief.\n\nSino-Belarusian relations have improved, strengthened by the visit of President Lukashenko to China in October 2005. Belarus also has strong ties with Syria, considered a key partner in the Middle East. In addition to the CIS, Belarus is a member of the Eurasian Economic Community, the Collective Security Treaty Organisation, the international Non-Aligned Movement since 1998, and the Organization on Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). As an OSCE member state, Belarus's international commitments are subject to monitoring under the mandate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission.\n\nBelarus is included in the European Union's European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) which aims at bringing the EU and its neighbours closer.\n\nOn 15 February 2016 the European Union announced the easing of sanctions against Belarus during a meeting by 28 EU foreign ministers at a regular session of the Council of the European Union.\n\nMajor General Andrei Ravkov heads the Ministry of Defence, and Alexander Lukashenko (as president) serves as Commander-in-Chief. The armed forces were formed in 1992 using parts of the former Soviet Armed Forces on the new republic's territory. The transformation of the ex-Soviet forces into the Armed Forces of Belarus, which was completed in 1997, reduced the number of its soldiers by 30,000 and restructured its leadership and military formations.\n\nMost of Belarus's service members are conscripts, who serve for 12 months if they have higher education or 18 months if they do not. Demographic decreases in the Belarusians of conscription age have increased the importance of contract soldiers, who numbered 12,000 in 2001. In 2005, about 1.4% of Belarus's gross domestic product was devoted to military expenditure.\n\nBelarus has not expressed a desire to join NATO but has participated in the Individual Partnership Program since 1997, and Belarus provides refueling and airspace support for the ISAF mission in Afghanistan. Belarus first began to cooperate with NATO upon signing documents to participate in their Partnership for Peace Program in 1995. However, Belarus cannot join NATO because it is a member of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation. Tensions between NATO and Belarus peaked after the March 2006 presidential election in Belarus.\n\nBelarus is divided into six regions (, ), which are named after the cities that serve as their administrative centers.\n\nEach region has a provincial legislative authority, called a region council (, ), which is elected by its residents, and a provincial executive authority called a region administration (, ), whose chairman is appointed by the president. Regions are further subdivided into \"raions\", commonly translated as \"districts\" (, ).\n\nEach \"raion\" has its own legislative authority, or \"raion\" council, (, ) elected by its residents, and an executive authority or \"raion\" administration appointed by higher executive powers. The six regions are divided into 118 \"raions\".\n\nThe city of Minsk is split into nine districts and enjoys special status as the nation's capital. It is run by an executive committee and has been granted a charter of self-rule.\n\nRegions (with administrative centers):\n\nSpecial administrative district:\n\nBelarus is the only European country still using capital punishment. The U.S. and Belarus were the only two of the 56 member states of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to have carried out executions during 2011.\n\nIn 2014 the share of manufacturing in GDP was 37%, more than two thirds of this amount falls on manufacturing industries. The number of people employed in industry is 32.7% of the working population. The growth rate is much lower than for the economy as a whole – about 1.9% in 2014. At the time of the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, Belarus was one of the world's most industrially developed states by percentage of GDP as well as the richest CIS member-state.\n\nIn 2015, 39.3% of Belarusians were employed by state-controlled companies, 57.2% were employed by private companies (in which the government has a 21.1% stake) and 3.5% were employed by foreign companies. The country relies on Russia for various imports, including petroleum. Important agricultural products include potatoes and cattle byproducts, including meat. In 1994, Belarus's main exports included heavy machinery (especially tractors), agricultural products, and energy products.\nEconomically, Belarus involved itself in the CIS, Eurasian Economic Community, and Union with Russia.\n\nIn the 1990s, however, industrial production plunged due to decreases in imports, investment, and demand for Belarusian products from its trading partners. GDP only began to rise in 1996; the country was the fastest-recovering former Soviet republic in the terms of its economy. In 2006, GDP amounted to in purchasing power parity (PPP) dollars (estimate), or about $8,100 per capita. In 2005, GDP increased by 9.9%; the inflation rate averaged 9.5%.\n\nSince the disintegration of the Soviet Union, under Lukashenko's leadership, Belarus has maintained government control over key industries and eschewed the large-scale privatizations seen in other former Soviet republics.\n\nIn 2006, Belarus's largest trading partner was Russia, accounting for nearly half of total trade, with the European Union the next largest trading partner, with nearly a third of foreign trade. , 38% of Belarusian exported goods go to Russia and 56% of imported goods come from Russia.\n\nDue to its failure to protect labor rights, including passing laws forbidding unemployment or working outside of state-controlled sectors, Belarus lost its EU Generalized System of Preferences status on 2007, which raised tariff rates to their prior most favored nation levels. Belarus applied to become a member of the World Trade Organization in 1993.\n\nThe labor force consists of more than four million people, among whom women hold slightly more jobs than men. In 2005, nearly a quarter of the population was employed by industrial factories. Employment is also high in agriculture, manufacturing sales, trading goods, and education. The unemployment rate, according to government statistics, was 1.5% in 2005. There were 679,000 unemployed Belarusians, two-thirds of whom were women. The unemployment rate has been in decline since 2003, and the overall rate of employment is the highest since statistics were first compiled in 1995.\n\nUntil 1 July 2016, the currency of Belarus was the Belarusian ruble (BYR). The currency was introduced in May 1992, replacing the Soviet ruble. The first coins of the Republic of Belarus were issued on 27 December 1996. The ruble was reintroduced with new values in 2000 and has been in use ever since. As part of the Union of Russia and Belarus, both states have discussed using a single currency along the same lines as the Euro. This led to a proposal that the Belarusian ruble be discontinued in favor of the Russian ruble (RUB), starting as early as 2008. The National Bank of Belarus abandoned pegging the Belarusian ruble to the Russian ruble in August 2007.\n\nA new currency, the new Belarusian ruble (ISO 4217 code: BYN) was introduced in July 2016, replacing the Belarusian ruble in a rate of 1:10,000 (10,000 old rubles = 1 new ruble). From 1 July until 31 December 2016, the old and new currencies will be in parallel circulation and series 2000 notes and coins can be exchanged for series 2009 from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2021. This redenomination can be considered an effort to fight the high inflation rate.\n\nThe banking system of Belarus consists of two levels: Central Bank (National Bank of the Republic of Belarus) and 25 commercial banks. On 23 May 2011, the Belarusian ruble depreciated 56% against the United States dollar. The depreciation was even steeper on the black market and financial collapse seemed imminent as citizens rushed to exchange their rubles for dollars, euros, durable goods, and canned goods. On 1 June 2011, Belarus requested an economic rescue package from the International Monetary Fund.\n\nAccording to the National Statistical Committee, , the population is 9.49 million people. Ethnic Belarusians constitute 83.7% of Belarus's total population. The next largest ethnic groups are: Russians (8.3%), Poles (3.1%), and Ukrainians (1.7%).\nBelarus has a population density of about 50 people per square kilometer (127 per sq mi); 70% of its total population is concentrated in urban areas. Minsk, the nation's capital and largest city, was home to 1,937,900 residents . Gomel, with a population of 481,000, is the second-largest city and serves as the capital of the Homiel Voblast. Other large cities are Mogilev (365,100), Vitebsk (342,400), Hrodna (314,800) and Brest (298,300).\n\nLike many other eastern European countries, Belarus has a negative population growth rate and a negative natural growth rate. In 2007, Belarus's population declined by 0.41% and its fertility rate was 1.22, well below the replacement rate. Its net migration rate is +0.38 per 1,000, indicating that Belarus experiences slightly more immigration than emigration. , 69.9% of Belarus's population is aged 14 to 64; 15.5% is under 14, and 14.6% is 65 or older. Its population is also aging; the median age of 30–34 is estimated to rise to between 60 and 64 in 2050. There are about 0.87 males per female in Belarus. The average life expectancy is 72.15 (66.53 years for men and 78.1 years for women). Over 99% of Belarusians aged 15 and older are literate.\n\nBelarus's two official languages are Russian and Belarusian; Russian is the main language, used by 72% of the population, while Belarusian, the official first language, is spoken by 11.9%. Minorities also speak Polish, Ukrainian and Eastern Yiddish. Belarusian, although not as widely used as Russian, is the mother tongue of 53.2% of the population, whereas Russian is the mother tongue of only 41.5%.\n\nAccording to the census of , 58.9% of all Belarusians adhere to some kind of religion; out of those, Eastern Orthodoxy (Belarusian Exarchate of the Russian Orthodox Church) makes up about 82%. Roman Catholicism is practiced mostly in the western regions, and there are also different denominations of Protestantism. Minorities also practice Greek Catholicism, Judaism, Islam and Neopaganism. Overall, 48.3% of the population is Orthodox Christian, 41.1% is not religious, 7.1% is Catholic and 3.3% follows other religions.\n\nBelarus's Catholic minority is concentrated in the western part of the country, especially around Hrodna, is made up of a mixture of Belarusians and the country's Polish and Lithuanian minorities. In a statement to the media regarding Belarusian-Vatican ties, President Lukashenko stated that Orthodox and Catholic believers are the \"two main confessions in our country\".\n\nBelarus was once a major center of European Jews, with 10% of the population being Jewish. But since the mid-20th century, the number of Jews has been reduced by the Holocaust, deportation, and emigration, so that today it is a very small minority of less than one percent. The Lipka Tatars, numbering over 15,000, are predominantly Muslims. According to Article 16 of the Constitution, Belarus has no official religion. While the freedom of worship is granted in the same article, religious organizations deemed harmful to the government or social order can be prohibited.\n\nThe Belarusian government sponsors annual cultural festivals such as the Slavianski Bazaar in Vitebsk, which showcases Belarusian performers, artists, writers, musicians, and actors. Several state holidays, such as Independence Day and Victory Day, draw big crowds and often include displays such as fireworks and military parades, especially in Vitebsk and Minsk. The government's Ministry of Culture finances events promoting Belarusian arts and culture both inside and outside the country.\n\nBelarusian literature began with 11th- to 13th-century religious scripture, such as the 12th-century poetry of Cyril of Turaw.\n\nBy the 16th century, Polotsk resident Francysk Skaryna translated the Bible into Belarusian. It was published in Prague and Vilnius sometime between 1517 and 1525, making it the first book printed in Belarus or anywhere in Eastern Europe. The modern era of Belarusian literature began in the late 19th century; one prominent writer was Yanka Kupala. Many Belarusian writers of the time, such as Uładzimir Žyłka, Kazimir Svayak, Yakub Kolas, Źmitrok Biadula, and Maksim Haretski, wrote for \"Nasha Niva\", a Belarusian-language paper published that was previously published in Vilnius but now is published in Minsk.\nAfter Belarus was incorporated into the Soviet Union, the Soviet government took control of the Republic's cultural affairs. At first, a policy of \"Belarusianization\" was followed in the newly formed Byelorussian SSR. This policy was reversed in the 1930s, and the majority of prominent Belarusian intellectuals and nationalist advocates were either exiled or killed in Stalinist purges. The free development of literature occurred only in Polish-held territory until Soviet occupation in 1939. Several poets and authors went into exile after the Nazi occupation of Belarus and would not return until the 1960s.\n\nThe last major revival of Belarusian literature occurred in the 1960s with novels published by Vasil Bykaŭ and Uladzimir Karatkievich. An influential author who devoted his work to awakening the awareness of the catastrophes the country has suffered, was Ales Adamovich. He was named by Svetlana Alexievich, the Belarusian winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature 2015, as \"her main teacher, who helped her to find a path of her own\".\nMusic in Belarus largely comprises a rich tradition of folk and religious music. The country's folk music traditions can be traced back to the times of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. In the 19th century, Polish composer Stanisław Moniuszko composed operas and chamber music pieces while living in Minsk. During his stay, he worked with Belarusian poet Vintsent Dunin-Martsinkyevich and created the opera \"Sialanka\" (\"Peasant Woman\"). At the end of the 19th century, major Belarusian cities formed their own opera and ballet companies. The ballet \"Nightingale\" by M. Kroshner was composed during the Soviet era and became the first Belarusian ballet showcased at the National Academic Vialiki Ballet Theatre in Minsk.\n\nAfter the Second World War, music focused on the hardships of the Belarusian people or on those who took up arms in defense of the homeland. During this period, Anatoly Bogatyrev, creator of the opera \"In Polesye Virgin Forest\", served as the \"tutor\" of Belarusian composers. The National Academic Theatre of Ballet in Minsk was awarded the Benois de la Dance Prize in 1996 as the top ballet company in the world. Rock music has become increasingly popular in recent years, though the Belarusian government has attempted to limit the amount of foreign music aired on the radio in favor of traditional Belarusian music. Since 2004, Belarus has been sending artists to the Eurovision Song Contest.\n\nMarc Chagall was born in Liozna (near Vitebsk) in 1887. He spent the World War I years in Soviet Belarus, becoming one of the country's most distinguished artists and a member of the modernist avant-garde and was a founder of the Vitebsk Arts College.\n\nThe traditional Belarusian dress originates from the Kievan Rus' period. Due to the cool climate, clothes were designed to preserve body heat and were usually made from flax or wool. They were decorated with ornate patterns influenced by the neighboring cultures: Poles, Lithuanians, Latvians, Russians, and other European nations. Each region of Belarus has developed specific design patterns. One ornamental pattern common in early dresses currently decorates the hoist of the Belarusian national flag, adopted in a disputed referendum in 1995.\n\nBelarusian cuisine consists mainly of vegetables, meat (particularly pork), and bread. Foods are usually either slowly cooked or stewed. Typically, Belarusians eat a light breakfast and two hearty meals, with dinner being the largest meal of the day. Wheat and rye breads are consumed in Belarus, but rye is more plentiful because conditions are too harsh for growing wheat. To show hospitality, a host traditionally presents an offering of bread and salt when greeting a guest or visitor.\n\nBelarus has competed in the Olympic Games since the 1994 Winter Olympics. Its National Olympic Committee has been headed by President Lukashenko since 1997.\n\nReceiving heavy sponsorship from the government, ice hockey is the nation's second most popular sport after football. The national football team has never qualified for a major tournament; however, BATE Borisov has played in the Champions League. The national hockey team finished fourth at the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics following a memorable upset win over Sweden in the quarterfinals, and regularly competes in the World Championships, often making the quarterfinals. Numerous Belarusian players are present in the Kontinental Hockey League in Eurasia, particularly for Belarusian club HC Dinamo Minsk, and several have also played in the National Hockey League in North America. Darya Domracheva is a leading biathlete whose honours include three gold medals at the 2014 Winter Olympics.\nTennis player Victoria Azarenka became the first Belarusian to win a Grand Slam singles title at the Australian Open in 2012. She also won the gold medal in mixed doubles at the 2012 Summer Olympics with Max Mirnyi, who holds ten Grand Slam titles in doubles.\n\nOther notable Belarusian sportspeople include cyclist Vasil Kiryienka, who won the 2015 Road World Time Trial Championship, and middle distance runner Maryna Arzamasava, who won the gold medal in the 800m at the 2015 World Championships in Athletics.\n\nBelarus is also known for its strong rhythmic gymnasts. Noticeable gymnasts include Inna Zhukova, who earned silver at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, Liubov Charkashyna, who earned bronze at the 2012 London Olympics and Melitina Staniouta, Bronze All-Around Medalist of the 2015 World Championships. The Belorussian senior group earned bronze at the 2012 London Olympics.\n\nAndrei Arlovski, who was born in Babruysk, Byelorussian SSR, is a current UFC fighter and the former UFC heavyweight champion of the world.\n\n\nThe state telecom monopoly, Beltelecom, holds the exclusive interconnection with Internet providers outside of Belarus. Beltelecom owns all the backbone channels that linked to the Lattelecom, TEO LT, Tata Communications (former Teleglobe), Synterra, Rostelecom, Transtelekom and MTS ISP's. Beltelecom is the only operator licensed to provide commercial VoIP services in Belarus.\n\nBelarus has four UNESCO-designated World Heritage Sites: the Mir Castle Complex, the Nesvizh Castle, the Belovezhskaya Pushcha (shared with Poland), and the Struve Geodetic Arc (shared with nine other countries).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39851055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39851055", "title": "Bigadiç mine", "text": "Bigadiç mine\n\nThe Bigadiç mine is a large boron ore mine located at Balıkesir Province in western Turkey. Bigadiç represents one of the largest boron reserves in Turkey, with an estimated reserve of 623.5 million tonnes of ore grading 30% boron.\n"}
{"id": "37715428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37715428", "title": "CIOPORA", "text": "CIOPORA\n\nCIOPORA is the International Community of Breeders of Asexually Reproduced Ornamental and Fruit Varieties (French – Communauté Internationale des Obtenteurs de Plantes Ornamentales et Frutières à Reproduction Asexuée, German - Internationale Gemeinschaft der Züchter vegetativ vermehrbarer Zier- und Obstpflanzen, Spanish - Comunidad Internacional de Fitomejoradores de Plantas ornamentales y frutales de reproducción asexuada).\n\nCIOPORA groups together individual breeders of ornamental and fruit plants, breeding companies, as well as IP attorneys and consultants. Established in 1961 under Swiss law, CIOPORA is an independent non-profit and non-governmental international association, whose main objective is to monitor and to facilitate the constant development of the systems of protection of Intellectual Property (IP) Rights for plant innovation in the horticultural and fruit sector.\n\nThe founding meeting of CIOPORA took place on February 4, 1961 in Geneva, Switzerland with Wilhelm Kordes II elected as its first President. Preceding the Diplomatic Conference of November 1961 in Paris, where CIOPORA participated along with the representatives of 12 European nations, which resulted in the adoption of the International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants and the establishment of the UPOV, CIOPORA published its first position paper providing its comments on the provisions of the Draft Convention. This paper was distributed among the various delegations attending the Paris Conference in November 1961. Since 1961 CIOPORA has been representing the interests of breeders of asexually reproduced plant varieties before the policy-making authorities, such as UPOV, WIPO, WTO, as well as single governments.\n\nCIOPORA is set out to influence and participate in the development of systems of Intellectual Property Protection for breeders of ornamental and fruit plant varieties worldwide. Representing the interests of breeders in the horticultural sector, CIOPORA monitors the national and international laws targeted at the regulation of Plant Variety Protection, such as Plant Breeders' Rights, Patents and Plant Patents. CIOPORA pursues the enhancement, unification and synchronization of the relevant national and international legislation as well as the consideration of the breeders’ positions and interests by the law-making authorities. For instance, CIOPORA works closely with CPVO, the Community Plant Variety Office, by participating in its Administrative Council as an observer. The Secretary General of CIOPORA Dr. Edgar Krieger is a member of the CPVO Working Group of Legal Experts. The meetings of the Group take place three to four times a year in Paris, France. CIOPORA also an active participant and, from time to time, a co-organizer of the educational events held by CPVO.\n\nSince 1988 CIOPORA has been participating in the UPOV Council sessions open for non-governmental organizations. Currently, along with its independent observer status, CIOPORA participates in the Administrative and Legal Committee (CAJ), Technical Committee (TC), Technical Working Party for Fruits (TWF), Technical Working Party for Ornamental Plants and Forest Trees (TWO), as well as in the Working Group on Biochemical and Molecular Techniques, and DNA-Profiling in Particular (BMT) of the UPOV. CIOPORA has contributed to all three acts of the UPOV Convention (1961, 1978 and 1991) and submitted its feedback in the process of development of numerous other documents and regulations by UPOV regarding such topics as variety denominations, examination of Distinctness, Uniformity and Stability, harvested material, Essentially Derived Varieties, enforcement of breeders’ rights, etc.\n\nThe supreme authority of CIOPORA is the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of its members The AGM of CIOPORA is held at least once a year. The date and venue, as well as the agenda of each year’s AGM are determined by the Board of CIOPORA. An extraordinary General Meeting can be convened on the proposals of the Board or of at least one fifth of the breeder members of the association.\n\nThe general management and the control over the affairs of the association are entrusted to its Board headed by the President. The Board of CIOPORA is composed at least of eight and no more than eleven members of the association, including the President. The President and the candidates for the Board are nominated by the Board and are elected by secret ballot of the AGM for a term of three years. The President of CIOPORA can be reelected once. The Board of CIOPORA chooses the Vice president and the Treasurer of the association from its ranks. The Board of the association meets at least two, and usually four times a year.\n\nThe administrative office of CIOPORA is located in Hamburg, Germany. It is headed by the Secretary General designated by the Board as a representative of CIOPORA in all external communication activities of the association targeted at the achievement of the CIOPORA's goals and objectives. The Secretary General handles the accounts and is in charge of all the administrative matters of the association.\n\nThe members of CIOPORA can create groups within the structure of the association, such as crop sections and working groups. Currently there are five active crop sections within the structure of the association: Carnation, Cut Rose (IRBA), Fruit, Gypsophila and Pot Plants. Working groups are created with the goal to work on a particular topic. At the moment two Working Groups - Working Group on Molecular Techniques and Working Group on DUS (Distinctness, Uniformity and Stability) – meet regularly in order to draft the positions of CIOPORA on the respective matters.\n\nCurrently CIOPORA comprises over 124 members from 26 countries (November 2012). Single breeders and breeding companies from the horticultural and fruit sector, as well as title holders, breeder associations, IP lawyers and consultants active in the area of Intellectual Property Protection are eligible for membership in the association. The proportion of the different member groups is regulated in the bylaws of CIOPORA: the number of affiliate members, association members, lawyer members and honorary members must not exceed half the number of the breeder members in order to guarantee that CIOPORA remains primarily the community of breeders. Each membership candidacy is subject to approval by the CIOPORA Board. Natural persons and companies, which are prepared to support the objectives of CIOPORA, but do not qualify as members, may become supporters of the association. Currently, CIOPORA accounts for 6 supporters from four countries.\n\nBesides the Annual General Meetings, CIOPORA organizes international conferences and seminars on IP-related topics within the framework of the educational services for its member community and interested parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "33008616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33008616", "title": "Council on the Future of Europe", "text": "Council on the Future of Europe\n\nCouncil for the Future of Europe is a think tank, established in September 2011, initiated and supported by the Nicolas Berggruen Institute as one of its projects, in its manifesto calling for a political union of Europe: \n\nIt aims to: \n\nFounding members are: Tony Blair, Juan Luis Cebrián, Jacques Delors, Felipe González, Alain Minc, Mario Monti, Robert Mundell, Rodrigo de Rato, Nouriel Roubini, Gerhard Schröder, Michael Spence, Joseph Stiglitz, Matti Vanhanen, Guy Verhofstadt and Max von Bismarck.\n\n"}
{"id": "3990817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3990817", "title": "Differential technological development", "text": "Differential technological development\n\nDifferential technological development is a strategy proposed by transhumanist philosopher Nick Bostrom in which societies would seek to influence the sequence in which emerging technologies developed. On this approach, societies would strive to retard the development of harmful technologies and their applications, while accelerating the development of beneficial technologies, especially those that offer protection against the harmful ones.\n\nPaul Christiano believes that while accelerating technological progress appears to be one of the best ways to improve human welfare in the next few decades, a faster rate of growth cannot be equally important for the far future because growth must eventually saturate due to physical limits. Hence, from the perspective of the far future, differential technological development appears more crucial.\n\nInspired by Bostrom's proposal, Luke Muehlhauser and Anna Salamon suggested a more general project of \"differential intellectual progress\", in which society advances its wisdom, philosophical sophistication, and understanding of risks faster than its technological power. Brian Tomasik has expanded on this notion.\n\n"}
{"id": "370432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=370432", "title": "Economic inequality", "text": "Economic inequality\n\nEconomic inequality covers a wide variety of topics. It can refer to either income distribution, measuring the amount of money people are paid, or the distribution of wealth, which captures the amount of wealth people own. Inequality among nations is covered in international inequality and countries listed by income inequality. For the United States, see United States income inequality, United States wealth inequality, United States states by gini coefficient and causes of income inequality in the United States.\n\nBesides measurements between countries or states, there are important types of economic inequality between groups of people. For inequality based on race, see racial wage gap in the United States. For inequality based on gender, see gender pay gap and gender pay gap in the United States.\n\nImportant types of economic measurements focus on wealth, income, and consumption. There are various numerical indices for measuring economic inequality. A widely used index is the Gini coefficient, but there are also many other methods. Important concepts of equality include equity, equality of outcome, and equality of opportunity.\n\nResearch suggests that greater inequality hinders the duration of growth but not its rate. Whereas globalization has reduced global inequality (between nations), it has increased inequality within nations.\n\nIn 1820, the ratio between the income of the top and bottom 20 percent of the world's population was three to one. By 1991, it was eighty-six to one. A 2011 study titled \"Divided we Stand: Why Inequality Keeps Rising\" by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) sought to explain the causes for this rising inequality by investigating economic inequality in OECD countries; it concluded that following factors had a role:\n\nA 2011 OECD study investigated economic inequality in Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Russia and South Africa. It concluded that key sources of inequality in these countries include \"a large, persistent informal sector, widespread regional divides (e.g. urban-rural), gaps in access to education, and barriers to employment and career progression for women.\"\n\nA study by the World Institute for Development Economics Research at United Nations University reports that the richest 1% of adults alone owned 40% of global assets in the year 2000. The \"three\" richest people in the world possess more financial assets than the lowest 48 nations combined. The combined wealth of the \"10 million dollar millionaires\" grew to nearly $41 trillion in 2008. A January 2014 report by Oxfam claims that the 85 wealthiest individuals in the world have a combined wealth equal to that of the bottom 50% of the world's population, or about 3.5 billion people. According to a \"Los Angeles Times\" analysis of the report, the wealthiest 1% owns 46% of the world's wealth; the 85 richest people, a small part of the wealthiest 1%, own about 0.7% of the human population's wealth, which is the same as the bottom half of the population. In January 2015, Oxfam reported that the wealthiest 1 percent will own more than half of the global wealth by 2016. An October 2014 study by Credit Suisse also claims that the top 1% now own nearly half of the world's wealth and that the accelerating disparity could trigger a recession.\n\nIn October 2015, Credit Suisse published a study which shows global inequality continues to increase, and that half of the world's wealth is now in the hands of those in the top percentile, whose assets each exceed $759,900. A 2016 report by Oxfam claims that the 62 wealthiest individuals own as much wealth as the poorer half of the global population combined. Oxfam's claims have however been questioned on the basis of the methodology used: by using net wealth (adding up assets and subtracting debts), the Oxfam report, for instance, finds that there are more poor people in the United States and Western Europe than in China (due to a greater tendency to take on debts). Anthony Shorrocks, the lead author of the Credit Suisse report which is one of the sources of Oxfam's data, considers the criticism about debt to be a \"silly argument\" and \"a non-issue . . . a diversion.\" Oxfam's 2017 report says the top eight billionaires have as much wealth as the bottom half of the global population, and that rising inequality is suppressing wages, as businesses are focused on delivering higher returns to wealthy owners and executives. In 2018, the Oxfam report said that the wealth gap continued to widen in 2017, with 82% of global wealth generated going to the wealthiest 1%.\n\nAccording to PolitiFact the top 400 richest Americans \"have more wealth than half of all Americans combined.\" According to \"The New York Times\" on July 22, 2014, the \"richest 1 percent in the United States now own more wealth than the bottom 90 percent\". Inherited wealth may help explain why many Americans who have become rich may have had a \"substantial head start\". In September 2012, according to the Institute for Policy Studies (IPS), \"over 60 percent\" of the Forbes richest 400 Americans \"grew up in substantial privilege\". A 2017 report by the IPS said that three individuals, Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates and Warren Buffett, own as much wealth as the bottom half of the population, or 160 million people, and that the growing disparity between the wealthy and the poor has created a \"moral crisis\", noting that \"we have not witnessed such extreme levels of concentrated wealth and power since the first gilded age a century ago.\" In 2016, the world's billionaires increased their combined global wealth to a record $6 trillion. In 2017, they increased their collective wealth to 8.9 trillion.\n\nThe existing data and estimates suggest a large increase in international (and more generally inter-macroregional) component between 1820 and 1960. It might have slightly decreased since that time at the expense of increasing inequality within countries.\n\nThe United Nations Development Programme in 2014 asserted that greater investments in social security, jobs and laws that protect vulnerable populations are necessary to prevent widening income inequality ... .\n\nThere is a significant difference in the measured wealth distribution and the public's understanding of wealth distribution. Michael Norton of the Harvard Business School and Dan Ariely of the Department of Psychology at Duke University found this to be true in their research, done in 2011. The actual wealth going to the top quintile in 2011 was around 84% where as the average amount of wealth that the general public estimated to go to the top quintile was around 58%.\n\nTwo researchers claim that global income inequality is decreasing, due to strong economic growth in developing countries. However, the OECD reported in 2015 that income inequality is higher than it has ever been within OECD member nations and is at increased levels in many emerging economies. According to a June 2015 report by the International Monetary Fund:\n\nWidening income inequality is the defining challenge of our time. In advanced economies, the gap between the rich and poor is at its highest level in decades. Inequality trends have been more mixed in emerging markets and developing countries (EMDCs), with some countries experiencing declining inequality, but pervasive inequities in access to education, health care, and finance remain.\n\nIn October 2017, the IMF warned that inequality within nations, in spite of global inequality falling in recent decades, has risen so sharply that it threatens economic growth and could result in further political polarization. The Fund's Fiscal Monitor report said that \"progressive taxation and transfers are key components of efficient fiscal redistribution.\"\n\nIncome inequality in the US is significantly worse than people think.\n\nIn October 2018 Oxfam published a \"Reducing Inequality Index\" which measured social spending, tax and workers' rights to show which countries were best at closing the gap between rich and poor.\n\nThe following table shows information about wealth distribution in different countries, from a 2013 report by Crédit Suisse. Wealth can be negative for people who are in debt, and if there are enough people in debt in a country, the Gini coefficient can be greater than 100%, as seen in the case of Denmark. The Gini coefficients for wealth are often much higher than those for income. This is the case for example in Scandinavian countries such as Sweden and Finland. For example, in Sweden about 24% of households have negative wealth (or zero). This seems to be due to factors such as social insurance programmes (welfare) and the public pension scheme.\nA Gini index value above 50 is considered high; countries including Brazil, Colombia, South Africa, Botswana, and Honduras can be found in this category. A Gini index value of 30 or above is considered medium; countries including Vietnam, Mexico, Poland, The United States, Argentina, Russia and Uruguay can be found in this category. A Gini index value lower than 30 is considered low; countries including Austria, Germany, Denmark, Slovenia, Sweden and Ukraine can be found in this category.\n\nAccording to Christina Starmans et al. (Nature Hum. Beh., 2017), the research literature contains no evidence on people having an aversion on inequality. In all studies analyzed, the subjects preferred fair distributions to equal distributions, in both laboratory and real-world situations. In public, researchers may loosely speak of equality instead of fairness, when referring to studies where fairness happens to coincide with equality, but in many studies fairness is carefully separated from equality and the results are univocal. Already very young children seem to prefer fairness over equality.\n\nWhen people were asked, what would be the wealth of each quintile in their ideal society, they gave a 50-fold sum to the richest quintile than to the poorest quintile. The preference for inequality increases in adolescence, and so do the capabilities to favor fortune, effort and ability in the distribution.\n\nPreference for unequal distribution has been developed to the human race possibly because it allows for better co-operation and allows a person to work with a more productive person so that both parties benefit from the co-operation. Inequality also solves the problems of free-riders, cheaters and ill-behaving people.\n\nIn many societies, such as the USSR, the distribution lead to anger, as it was felt too equal, unfair. In the current U.S., many feel that the distribution is unfair in being too unequal. In both cases, the cause is unfairness, not inequality, the researchers conclude.\n\nSocialists attribute the vast disparities in wealth to the private ownership of the means of production by a class of owners, creating a situation where a small portion of the population lives off unearned property income by virtue of ownership titles in capital equipment, financial assets and corporate stock. By contrast, the vast majority of the population is dependent on income in the form of a wage or salary. In order to rectify this situation, socialists argue that the means of production should be socially owned so that income differentials would be reflective of individual contributions to the social product.\n\nMarxist socialists ultimately predict the emergence of a communist society based on the common ownership of the means of production, where each individual citizen would have free access to the articles of consumption (\"From each according to his ability, to each according to his need\"). According to Marxist philosophy, equality in the sense of free access is essential for freeing individuals from dependent relationships, thereby allowing them to transcend alienation.\n\nMeritocracy favors an eventual society where an individual's success is a direct function of his merit, or contribution. Economic inequality would be a natural consequence of the wide range in individual skill, talent and effort in human population. David Landes stated that the progression of Western economic development that led to the Industrial Revolution was facilitated by men advancing through their own merit rather than because of family or political connections.\n\nMost modern social liberals, including centrist or left-of-center political groups, believe that the capitalist economic system should be fundamentally preserved, but the status quo regarding the income gap must be reformed. Social liberals favor a capitalist system with active Keynesian macroeconomic policies and progressive taxation (to even out differences in income inequality).\n\nHowever, contemporary classical liberals and libertarians generally do not take a stance on wealth inequality, but believe in equality under the law regardless of whether it leads to unequal wealth distribution. In 1966 Ludwig von Mises, a prominent figure in the Austrian School of economic thought, explains:\n\nThe liberal champions of equality under the law were fully aware of the fact that men are born unequal and that it is precisely their inequality that generates social cooperation and civilization. Equality under the law was in their opinion not designed to correct the inexorable facts of the universe and to make natural inequality disappear. It was, on the contrary, the device to secure for the whole of mankind the maximum of benefits it can derive from it. Henceforth no man-made institutions should prevent a man from attaining that station in which he can best serve his fellow citizens.\n\nRobert Nozick argued that government redistributes wealth by force (usually in the form of taxation), and that the ideal moral society would be one where all individuals are free from force. However, Nozick recognized that some modern economic inequalities were the result of forceful taking of property, and a certain amount of redistribution would be justified to compensate for this force but not because of the inequalities themselves. John Rawls argued in \"A Theory of Justice\" that inequalities in the distribution of wealth are only justified when they improve society as a whole, including the poorest members. Rawls does not discuss the full implications of his theory of justice. Some see Rawls's argument as a justification for capitalism since even the poorest members of society theoretically benefit from increased innovations under capitalism; others believe only a strong welfare state can satisfy Rawls's theory of justice.\n\nClassical liberal Milton Friedman believed that if government action is taken in pursuit of economic equality then political freedom would suffer. In a famous quote, he said:\n\nA society that puts equality before freedom will get neither. A society that puts freedom before equality will get a high degree of both.\n\nEconomist Tyler Cowen has argued that though income inequality has increased within nations, globally it has fallen over the last 20 years. He argues that though income inequality may make individual nations worse off, overall, the world has improved as global inequality has been reduced.\n\nPatrick Diamond and Anthony Giddens (professors of Economics and Sociology, respectively) hold that 'pure meritocracy is incoherent because, without redistribution, one generation's successful individuals would become the next generation's embedded caste, hoarding the wealth they had accumulated'.\n\nThey also state that social justice requires redistribution of high incomes and large concentrations of wealth in a way that spreads it more widely, in order to \"recognise the contribution made by all sections of the community to building the nation's wealth.\" (Patrick Diamond and Anthony Giddens, June 27, 2005, New Statesman)\n\nPope Francis stated in his \"Evangelii gaudium\", that \"as long as the problems of the poor are not radically resolved by rejecting the absolute autonomy of markets and financial speculation and by attacking the structural causes of inequality, no solution will be found for the world's problems or, for that matter, to any problems.\" He later declared that \"inequality is the root of social evil.\"\n\nWhen income inequality is low, aggregate demand will be relatively high, because more people who want ordinary consumer goods and services will be able to afford them, while the labor force will not be as relatively monopolized by the wealthy.\n\nIn most western democracies, the desire to eliminate or reduce economic inequality is generally associated with the political left. One practical argument in favor of reduction is the idea that economic inequality reduces social cohesion and increases social unrest, thereby weakening the society. There is evidence that this is true (see inequity aversion) and it is intuitive, at least for small face-to-face groups of people. Alberto Alesina, Rafael Di Tella, and Robert MacCulloch find that inequality negatively affects happiness in Europe but not in the United States.\n\nIt has also been argued that economic inequality invariably translates to political inequality, which further aggravates the problem. Even in cases where an increase in economic inequality makes nobody economically poorer, an increased inequality of resources is disadvantageous, as increased economic inequality can lead to a power shift due to an increased inequality in the ability to participate in democratic processes.\n\nThe capabilities approach – sometimes called the human development approach – looks at income inequality and poverty as form of \"capability deprivation\". Unlike neoliberalism, which \"defines well-being as utility maximization\", economic growth and income are considered a means to an end rather than the end itself. Its goal is to \"wid[en] people's choices and the level of their achieved well-being\" through increasing functionings (the things a person values doing), capabilities (the freedom to enjoy functionings) and agency (the ability to pursue valued goals).\n\nWhen a person's capabilities are lowered, they are in some way deprived of earning as much income as they would otherwise. An old, ill man cannot earn as much as a healthy young man; gender roles and customs may prevent a woman from receiving an education or working outside the home. There may be an epidemic that causes widespread panic, or there could be rampant violence in the area that prevents people from going to work for fear of their lives. As a result, income and economic inequality increases, and it becomes more difficult to reduce the gap without additional aid. To prevent such inequality, this approach believes it's important to have political freedom, economic facilities, social opportunities, transparency guarantees, and protective security to ensure that people aren't denied their functionings, capabilities, and agency and can thus work towards a better relevant income.\n\nA 2011 OECD study makes a number of suggestions to its member countries, including:\n\nProgressive taxation reduces absolute income inequality when the higher rates on higher-income individuals are paid and not evaded, and transfer payments and social safety nets result in progressive government spending. Wage ratio legislation has also been proposed as a means of reducing income inequality. The OECD asserts that public spending is vital in reducing the ever-expanding wealth gap.\n\nThe economists Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty recommend much higher top marginal tax rates on the wealthy, up to 50 percent, or 70 percent or even 90 percent. Ralph Nader, Jeffrey Sachs, the United Front Against Austerity, among others, call for a financial transactions tax (also known as the Robin Hood tax) to bolster the social safety net and the public sector.\n\n\"The Economist\" wrote in December 2013: \"A minimum wage, providing it is not set too high, could thus boost pay with no ill effects on jobs...America's federal minimum wage, at 38% of median income, is one of the rich world's lowest. Some studies find no harm to employment from federal of state minimum wages, others see a small one, but none finds any serious damage.\"\n\nGeneral limitations on and taxation of rent-seeking are popular across the political spectrum.\n\nPublic policy responses addressing causes and effects of income inequality in the US include: progressive tax incidence adjustments, strengthening social safety net provisions such as Aid to Families with Dependent Children, welfare, the food stamp program, Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, organizing community interest groups, increasing and reforming higher education subsidies, increasing infrastructure spending, and placing limits on and taxing rent-seeking.\n\nA 2017 study in the \"Journal of Political Economy\" by Daron Acemogu, James Robinson and Thierry Verdier argues that American \"cutthroat\" capitalism and inequality gives rise to technology and innovation that more \"cuddly\" forms of capitalism cannot. As a result, \"the diversity of institutions we observe among relatively advanced countries, ranging from greater inequality and risk-taking in the United States to the more egalitarian societies supported by a strong safety net in Scandinavia, rather than reflecting differences in fundamentals between the citizens of these societies, may emerge as a mutually self-reinforcing world equilibrium. If so, in this equilibrium, \"we cannot all be like the Scandinavians,\" because Scandinavian capitalism depends in part on the knowledge spillovers created by the more cutthroat American capitalism.\" A 2012 working paper by the same authors, making similar arguments, was challenged by Lane Kenworthy, who posited that, among other things, the Nordic countries are consistently ranked as some of the world's most innovative countries by the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Index, with Sweden ranking as the most innovative nation, followed by Finland, for 2012–2013; the U.S. ranked sixth.\n\nCountries with a left-leaning legislature generally have lower levels of inequality. Many factors constrain economic inequality – they may be divided into two classes: government sponsored, and market driven. The relative merits and effectiveness of each approach is a subject of debate.\n\nTypical government initiatives to reduce economic inequality include:\n\nMarket forces outside of government intervention that can reduce economic inequality include:\nResearch shows that since 1300, the only periods with significant declines in wealth inequality in Europe were the Black Death and the two World Wars. Historian Walter Scheidel posits that, since the stone age, only extreme violence, catastrophes and upheaval in the form of total war, Communist revolution, pestilence and state collapse have significantly reduced inequality. He has stated that \"only all-out thermonuclear war might fundamentally reset the existing distribution of resources\" and that \"peaceful policy reform may well prove unequal to the growing challenges ahead.\"\n\nThere are various reasons for economic inequality within societies. Recent growth in overall income inequality, at least within the OECD countries, has been driven mostly by increasing inequality in wages and salaries.\n\nEconomist Thomas Piketty argues that widening economic disparity is an inevitable phenomenon of free market capitalism when the rate of return of capital (r) is greater than the rate of growth of the economy (g).\n\nA major cause of economic inequality within modern market economies is the determination of wages by the market. Where competition is imperfect; information unevenly distributed; opportunities to acquire education and skills unequal market failure results. Since many such imperfect conditions exist in virtually every market, there is in fact little presumption that markets are in general efficient. This means that there is an enormous potential role for government to correct such market failures.\n\nAnother cause is the rate at which income is taxed coupled with the progressivity of the tax system. A progressive tax is a tax by which the tax rate increases as the taxable base amount increases. In a progressive tax system, the level of the top tax rate will often have a direct impact on the level of inequality within a society, either increasing it or decreasing it, provided that income does not change as a result of the change in tax regime. Additionally, steeper tax progressivity applied to social spending can result in a more equal distribution of income across the board. The difference between the Gini index for an income distribution before taxation and the Gini index after taxation is an indicator for the effects of such taxation.\n\nAn important factor in the creation of inequality is variation in individuals' access to education. Education, especially in an area where there is a high demand for workers, creates high wages for those with this education, however, increases in education first increase and then decrease growth as well as income inequality. As a result, those who are unable to afford an education, or choose not to pursue optional education, generally receive much lower wages. The justification for this is that a lack of education leads directly to lower incomes, and thus lower aggregate savings and investment. Conversely, education raises incomes and promotes growth because it helps to unleash the productive potential of the poor.\n\nJohn Schmitt and Ben Zipperer (2006) of the CEPR point to economic liberalism and the reduction of business regulation along with the decline of union membership as one of the causes of economic inequality. In an analysis of the effects of intensive Anglo-American liberal policies in comparison to continental European liberalism, where unions have remained strong, they concluded \"The U.S. economic and social model is associated with substantial levels of social exclusion, including high levels of income inequality, high relative and absolute poverty rates, poor and unequal educational outcomes, poor health outcomes, and high rates of crime and incarceration. At the same time, the available evidence provides little support for the view that U.S.-style labor market flexibility dramatically improves labor-market outcomes. Despite popular prejudices to the contrary, the U.S. economy consistently affords a lower level of economic mobility than all the continental European countries for which data is available.\"\n\nMore recently, the International Monetary Fund has published studies which found that the decline of unionization in many advanced economies and the establishment of neoliberal economics have fueled rising income inequality.\n\nThe growth in importance of information technology has been credited with increasing income inequality. Technology has been called \"the main driver of the recent increases in inequality\" by Erik Brynjolfsson, of MIT. In arguing against this explanation, Jonathan Rothwell notes that if technological advancement is measured by high rates of invention, there is a negative correlation between it and inequality. Countries with high invention rates — \"as measured by patent applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty\" — exhibit lower inequality than those with less. In one country, the United States, \"salaries of engineers and software developers rarely reach\" above $390,000/year (the lower limit for the top 1% earners).\n\nTrade liberalization may shift economic inequality from a global to a domestic scale. When rich countries trade with poor countries, the low-skilled workers in the rich countries may see reduced wages as a result of the competition, while low-skilled workers in the poor countries may see increased wages. Trade economist Paul Krugman estimates that trade liberalisation has had a measurable effect on the rising inequality in the United States. He attributes this trend to increased trade with poor countries and the fragmentation of the means of production, resulting in low skilled jobs becoming more tradeable.\n\nIn many countries, there is a gender pay gap in favor of males in the labor market. Several factors other than discrimination may contribute to this gap. On average, women are more likely than men to consider factors other than pay when looking for work, and may be less willing to travel or relocate. Thomas Sowell, in his book Knowledge and Decisions, claims that this difference is due to women not taking jobs due to marriage or pregnancy, but income studies show that does not explain the entire difference. A U.S. Census's report stated that in US once other factors are accounted for there is still a difference in earnings between women and men. The income gap in other countries ranges from 53% in Botswana to -40% in Bahrain.\n\nEconomist Simon Kuznets argued that levels of economic inequality are in large part the result of stages of development. According to Kuznets, countries with low levels of development have relatively equal distributions of wealth. As a country develops, it acquires more capital, which leads to the owners of this capital having more wealth and income and introducing inequality. Eventually, through various possible redistribution mechanisms such as social welfare programs, more developed countries move back to lower levels of inequality.\n\nWealth concentration is the process by which, under certain conditions, newly created wealth concentrates in the possession of already-wealthy individuals or entities. Accordingly, those who already hold wealth have the means to invest in new sources of creating wealth or to otherwise leverage the accumulation of wealth, thus are the beneficiaries of the new wealth. Over time, wealth concentration can significantly contribute to the persistence of inequality within society. Thomas Piketty in his book \"Capital in the Twenty-First Century\" argues that the fundamental force for divergence is the usually greater return of capital (r) than economic growth (g), and that larger fortunes generate higher returns.\n\nEconomist Joseph Stiglitz argues that rather than explaining concentrations of wealth and income, market forces should serve as a brake on such concentration, which may better be explained by the non-market force known as \"rent-seeking\". While the market will bid up compensation for rare and desired skills to reward wealth creation, greater productivity, etc., it will also prevent successful entrepreneurs from earning excess profits by fostering competition to cut prices, profits and large compensation. A better explainer of growing inequality, according to Stiglitz, is the use of political power generated by wealth by certain groups to shape government policies financially beneficial to them. This process, known to economists as rent-seeking, brings income not from creation of wealth but from \"grabbing a larger share of the wealth that would otherwise have been produced without their effort\"\n\nJamie Galbraith argues that countries with larger financial sectors have greater inequality, and the link is not an accident.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46309523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46309523", "title": "Education About Asia", "text": "Education About Asia\n\nEducation About Asia is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal published by the Association for Asian Studies especially for the use of classroom teachers. The journal covers the entire field of Asian studies, including classical cultures and literature to current events. Other frequent features are guides to print and digital resources, such as movies (both feature films and documentaries), teachings materials, and web resources. The journal frequently publishes theme issues; topics have included Islam in Asia, marriage and family, youth culture, religion, economics and business, visual and performing arts, and Asia countries in world history.\n\nThe journal was established in 1996 in order to support the teaching and general knowledge of the members of the association and others involved in teaching. All articles are available free online. The founding and current editor-in-chief is Lucien Ellington (University of Tennessee at Chattanooga).\n\n\"Especially for university faculty who are new to teaching about Asia,\" says one scholar, \"the publication is an indispensable starting place for both designing courses and building a general store of knowledge about Asia.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "26120801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26120801", "title": "Evangelical Church in Central Germany", "text": "Evangelical Church in Central Germany\n\nThe Evangelical Church in Central Germany (German:\"Evangelische Kirche in Mitteldeutschland\") is a United church body covering most of the German states of Saxony-Anhalt and Thuringia and some adjacent areas in Brandenburg and Saxony.\n\nThe Church was formed on January 1, 2009, when the Evangelical Church of the Church Province of Saxony merged with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Thuringia and became the Evangelical Church in Central Germany. The Church is the most important Christian denomination in Thuringia and Saxony-Anhalt.\n\nThe bishop's seat is Magdeburg, the capital of Saxony-Anhalt. The Church is a full member of the federation of Lutheran, Reformed and United Protestant churches in Germany called Evangelical Church in Germany. Its principal church is Magdeburg Cathedral.\n\nIlse Junkermann has been the \"Landesbischof\" (bishop) of the church since 2009.\n\nOrdination of women and blessing of same-sex unions are allowed.\n\n"}
{"id": "5610045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5610045", "title": "Falter im Wind", "text": "Falter im Wind\n\n\"Falter im Wind\" (English translation: \"Butterfly In The Wind\") was the Austrian entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1972, performed in German by Milestones.\n\nThe song was performed eleventh on the night (following Finland's Päivi Paunu and Kim Floor with \"Muistathan\" and preceding Italy's Nicola Di Bari with \"I giorni dell'arcobaleno\"). At the close of voting, it had received 100 points, placing it fifth in a field of 18 songs.\n\nThe song is a folk-influenced number, directed at the titular butterfly and dealing with the impermanence of life. A version in English was recorded by The Milestones as \"Dance Butterfly\".\n\nDue to disagreements over the voting structure, Austria did not enter the Contest from 1973 to 1975. The song was thus succeeded as Austrian representative in the 1976 Contest by Waterloo & Robinson, performing \"My Little World\".\n"}
{"id": "38658107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38658107", "title": "Fondation Barbier-Mueller pour l'étude de la poésie italienne de la Renaissance", "text": "Fondation Barbier-Mueller pour l'étude de la poésie italienne de la Renaissance\n\nThe Fondation Barbier-Mueller pour l'étude de la poésie italienne de la Renaissance, or \"Barbier-Mueller foundation for the study of Italian Renaissance poetry\", is a Swiss foundation. It forms part of the faculty of Letters of the University of Geneva. It was created in 1997 when the Swiss collector Jean Paul Barbier-Mueller, author of \"Ma Bibliothèque poétique\", donated his collection of early and rare editions of Italian Renaissance poetry to the university. The collection currently consists of approximately 550 volumes, which are housed in the Bibliothèque d’Italien, the Italian section of the library of the faculty.\n\nThe foundation publishes the journal \"Italique\". Specialised texts and scholarly editions of Italian poetry are issued in the series\"Textes et Travaux de la Fondation Barbier-Mueller\".\n"}
{"id": "7773666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7773666", "title": "Gazeta Express", "text": "Gazeta Express\n\nGazeta Express is a Kosovo newsportal owned by MediaWorks. A new media company founded in 2005 by a group of senior editors and journalists with financing from IPKO, Kosovo's leading private telecommunications company. Initial group of founders include: Berat Buzhala, Petrit Selimi, Dukagjin Gorani, Ilir Mirena, Astrit Gashi, Arlinda Desku, Andrew Testa, Gjergj Filipaj, Bul Salihu, etc. First Editor-in-chief was Dukagjin Gorani (2005), followed by Berat Buzhala (2007). Company's first CEO was Petrit Selimi (2005), and was later followed by Baton Haxhiu (2007) and Shpend Jakupi (2010-2013). Nowadays CEO is Berat Buzhala and editor-in-chief is Leonard Kërquki. The newsportal is known for its wide range of news, fastest news delivery, distinctive editorials and op-ed's, as well as focus on investigative journalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4090569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4090569", "title": "General Confederation of Trade Unions", "text": "General Confederation of Trade Unions\n\nThe General Confederation of Trade Unions or GCTU (, \"Vseyobschya Konfederatsya Profsoyuzov\" or VKP) is an international trade union confederation. It was founded April 16, 1992 and incorporates members from the Commonwealth of Independent States.\n\nThe GCTU claims a membership of 75 million and is led by Vladimir Scherbakov as president.\n\nThe national trade union centers affiliated with the GCTU as of 2009 included:\n\nThe industrial trade union internationals with the GCTU as of 2009 included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23345767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23345767", "title": "Gözlerinin Hapsindeyim", "text": "Gözlerinin Hapsindeyim\n\n\"Gözlerinin Hapsindeyim\" (\"Captive in your eyes\") was the Turkish entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1990, performed in Turkish by Kayahan.\n\nThe song was performed fourth on the night, following Belgium's Philippe Lafontaine with \"Macédomienne\" and preceding Netherlands's Maywood with \"Ik wil alles met je delen\". At the close of voting, it had received 21 points, placing 17 th in a field of 22.\n\nThe song is about love, Kayahan sings about his lover and talks about his eyes hands and denotes as he loved for her.\n\nIt was succeeded as Turkish representative at the 1991 Contest by İzel Çeliköz, Reyhan Karaca & Can Uğurluer performing \"İki Dakika\".\n"}
{"id": "11381641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11381641", "title": "Hong Kong Go Association", "text": "Hong Kong Go Association\n\nThe Hong Kong Go Association (Chinese: 香港圍棋協會 Pinyin: Xiānggǎng Wéiqí Xiéhuì), created in 1982, is the Hong Kong Go Association, whose current chairman is 張大朋 (Pinyin: Zhāng Dà Péng). It ranks Go professionals and runs professional qualification exams for Go players in Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "47924570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47924570", "title": "IP5 (intellectual property offices)", "text": "IP5 (intellectual property offices)\n\nIP5 is a forum of the five largest intellectual property offices in the world. The five patent offices are the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), the European Patent Office (EPO), the Japan Patent Office (JPO), the Korean Intellectual Property Office (KIPO), and the National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA formerly SIPO) in China. In 2015, the IP5 patent offices together granted about one million patents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7095896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7095896", "title": "Jozi-H", "text": "Jozi-H\n\nJozi-H is a one-hour hospital drama series set in Johannesburg, South Africa, set in the Johannesburg General Hospital. It is a Canada-South Africa co-production. It first aired in Canada on CBC Television on 13 October 2006, and in South Africa on SABC3 in 2007.\n\nProducers are Morula Pictures (South Africa) and Inner City Films Inc. (Canada). The series was co-created by South Africans Mfundi Vundla and Karen Briner.\n\nCurrently being shown on OH-TV, Sky Digital channel 199.\n\n"}
{"id": "21419955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21419955", "title": "Kiatnakin Bank", "text": "Kiatnakin Bank\n\nKiatnakin Bank () is a full-service bank based in Thailand. The bank was founded in January 1971 in Bangkok with 17,000 million baht in funds, and has grown to 52 branches. It was listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand in August 1988 and is included in the SET50 Index. The company headquarters is in Bangkok. \n\nKiatnakin was founded in 1971 as a financial services company, and grew steadily until the recession of the late-1990s forced a suspension of operations. In 2005 the bank, which at the time had 22 financial service branches, applied for and received a commercial banking license.\nKiatnakin Securities is a subsidiary company of the bank, and in 2008 the company established a new wholly owned subsidiary, Erawan Law Office. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "51145013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51145013", "title": "Latin Bishopric of Coron", "text": "Latin Bishopric of Coron\n\nThe Latin Bishopric of Coron or Diocese of Coronea () was a Roman Catholic diocese located in the town of Coron in Messenia, Peloponnese, Greece, during its rule by the Republic of Venice. Following the Ottoman conquest in 1500, it was suppressed; in 1933, it was restored as a titular see.\n\n"}
{"id": "6633529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6633529", "title": "Les Ballets de Monte-Carlo", "text": "Les Ballets de Monte-Carlo\n\nLes Ballets de Monte-Carlo (The Monte Carlo Ballet) is a classical ballet company established in 1985 by the Princess of Hanover in accordance with the wishes of her mother, Princess Grace of Monaco. It is the official national company of the Principality of Monaco.\n\nThe first performance took place on 21 December 1985, casting among others several guest stars of the Paris Opera. Directed by Ghislaine Thesmar and Pierre Lacotte, the company rehearsed in the Diaghilev studio, performing on the stage of the Salle Garnier at the Monte Carlo Opera and immediately started touring. Their repertoire includes works from the Ballets Russes and contemporary pieces from guest choreographers such as Kevin Haigen, John Clifford, Jean-Christophe Maillot, Dieter Amman, and Uwe Scholz. In 1989, Jean Yves Esquerre became artistic director, after the departure of Ghislaine Thesmar and Pierre Lacotte one year earlier.\n\nIn 1992, Jean-Christophe Maillot joined the company, first as artistic consultant, and was officially promoted to the rank of director-choreographer in September 1993. Four years later, thanks to his vision and his energy, the \"Ballets de Monte-Carlo\" left the building that had been their historical home, which had by then become too small, and moved into their own dance center: L'ATELIER. Further, in December 2000, they inaugurated their first ballet season on the huge stage of the Salle des Princes at the brand new congress center in Monaco, the Grimaldi Forum. These were two turning points in the modern history of the company and the beginning of a new dance era in Monaco.\n\n"}
{"id": "30335010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30335010", "title": "Liechtenstein general election, February 1993", "text": "Liechtenstein general election, February 1993\n\nGeneral elections were held in Liechtenstein on 7 February 1993. Although the Patriotic Union won the most votes, the Progressive Citizens' Party won the most seats, whilst the Free List obtained representation in the Landtag the first time. Voter turnout was 87.54%. Fresh elections were subsequently held in October.\n\nNote that the total number of votes is lower than the total for the parties, as each voter has as many votes as there are seats in a constituency, and thus can cast multiple votes.\n"}
{"id": "18089704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18089704", "title": "Little Secrets (2006 film)", "text": "Little Secrets (2006 film)\n\nLittle Secrets (\"Perl oder Pica\") is a 2006 Luxembourgish film directed by Pol Cruchten. It was Luxembourg's submission to the 80th Academy Awards for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, but was not accepted as a nominee.\n\n"}
{"id": "35780984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35780984", "title": "Londo language", "text": "Londo language\n\nLondo (Bolondo) is a Bantu language of the Democratic Republic of Congo. It is closely related to Tembo.\n"}
{"id": "30969343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30969343", "title": "Mertolenga", "text": "Mertolenga\n\nThe Mertolenga is a cattle breed from Portugal, one of thirteen registered Portuguese breeds (as of 2003), making up around 19 per cent of cattle in that country.\n\nThe breed region is circumscribed almost exclusively to southern Portugal in the Low Alentejo, and Ribatejo regions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33271462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33271462", "title": "Num (god)", "text": "Num (god)\n\nAmong the Nenets people of Siberia, the male Num was the sky god, the good creator of earth and the high god of the Nenets. Num is one of two demiurges, or supreme gods. The Nenets believed earth and all living things were created by the god Num and every heavenly sphere is ruled by one son of the Num god. Nga was his malevolent son. \n\nAccording to one story, the world threatened to collapse on itself. To try to halt this cataclysm a shaman sought the advice of Num. The shaman was advised to travel below the earth, to Nga's domain and call upon him. The shaman did as told and was wed with Nga's daughter. After that point he began to support the world in his hand and became known as \"The Old Man of the Earth.\"\n\nIn another myth, Num and Nga create the world, collaborating and also competing with each other — the myth is an example of dualistic cosmology.\n\nThe word Num means heaven in Nenets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2854213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2854213", "title": "Orbita (TV system)", "text": "Orbita (TV system)\n\nOrbita () is a Soviet-Russian system of broadcasting and delivering TV signals via satellites. It is considered to be the first national network of satellite television.\n\nThe Orbita system is based on communication satellites in highly elliptical Molniya orbits, as well as on many ground downlink TV stations for reception and relaying TV signals to antennas of TV sets of many local areas. The full deployment of the Orbita satellite system took place on 25 October 1967 when ground downlink stations of some cities of Soviet Siberia and the Far East began to receive regular TV programmes from Moscow-based uplink stations via a constellation of Molniya satellites.\n\n"}
{"id": "9393705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9393705", "title": "Pennon of the Conquest", "text": "Pennon of the Conquest\n\nThe Pennon of the Conquest (; Catalan: \"Penó de la Conquesta\") is the flag raised by the Moors of Valencia, Spain, on September 28, 1238 on the tower of \"Alī-Bufāt\", later called \"Torre del Temple\", to indicate their surrender to the troops of king James I of Aragon. We know about this episode from the quote entered by the king himself in his Chronicle: \"We were in the riverbed, between the gardens and the tower; and when we saw our flag upon the tower, we dismounted from our horse, and heading eastwards we cried from our eyes and kissed the earth for the great mercy God had made to us\".\n\nThe Pennon is made of three pieces of white cloth (which the passage of time has turned into yellowish) sewed together, cut to give the flag a torus-shaped appearance, upon which 4 red stripes have been painted. It is about 2 m long and on top an epigraph reads \"año 1238\" (\"year 1238\"). After the Conquest of Valencia it was considered a relic and was kept by order of James I of Aragon in the Church at Saint Vincent Hospital up to the 19th century, when it was transferred to its current location in the City Hall of Valencia, Spain.\n\n"}
{"id": "4731703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4731703", "title": "Portuguese Gold Coast", "text": "Portuguese Gold Coast\n\nThe Portuguese Gold Coast was a Portuguese colony on the West African Gold Coast (present-day Ghana) on the Gulf of Guinea.\n\nThe Portuguese established the following settlements on the Gold Coast from 21 January 1482: \n\nOn 29 August 1637 the Dutch occupied São Jorge da Mina. \nOn 9 January 1642 the whole colony was ceded to the Dutch, who made it part of their Dutch Gold Coast colony.\n\nThe Portuguese governors, going by this modest, military style, were:\n\n"}
{"id": "45115773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45115773", "title": "Radio Republike Srpske", "text": "Radio Republike Srpske\n\nRadio Republike Srpske or Radio RS is entity level public radio channel operated by Radio Televizija Republike Srpske (RTRS). Its headquarters are located in Banja Luka.\n\nThis radio station broadcasts a variety of programs, including news, music, talk shows and sports. The program is broadcast 24 hours per day in the Serbian language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5815050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5815050", "title": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Zagreb", "text": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Zagreb\n\nThe Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Zagreb (, ) is the central archdiocese of the Catholic Church in Croatia, centered in the capital city Zagreb. It is the metropolitan see of Croatia, and the present archbishop is Josip Bozanić.\nIt encompasses the northwestern continental areas of Croatia.\n\n\nThe diocese of Zagreb was founded by Saint Ladislaus I of Hungary in 1093. On November 11, 1852, it was elevated to the status of an archdiocese.\n\n"}
{"id": "15505136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15505136", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Saint Joseph at Irkutsk", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Saint Joseph at Irkutsk\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Saint Joseph at Irkutsk () is a diocese located in the city of Irkutsk, which is part of the ecclesiastical province of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Mother of God at Moscow in Russia. The Diocese of Irkutsk is in fact the largest geographical Catholic bishopric on earth, covering an area of 9,960,000 km2.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38031812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38031812", "title": "Seleka, Botswana", "text": "Seleka, Botswana\n\nSeleka is a village in near Mahalapye in the Central District of Botswana. It derives its name from the name of one of the four subgroups of the Rolong people. Seleka had 1157 inhabitants in 2011\n\nThe area was previously grouped under Tumasera - with four villages: Tubjwa, Malete, Seleka and Rasesa, but Seleka was given autonomy in 2006 and given separate census in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "5415357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5415357", "title": "Swedish Metalworkers' Union", "text": "Swedish Metalworkers' Union\n\nThe Swedish Metalworkers' Union () was a trade union in Sweden. It was formed in 1888 and had a membership of 379,000.\n\nIn January 2006, the Swedish Metalworkers' Union merged with the Swedish Industrial Union to form IF Metall.\n\n"}
{"id": "3770600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3770600", "title": "Taiwan, China", "text": "Taiwan, China\n\n\"Taiwan, China\", \"Taiwan, Province of China\", or \"Taiwan Province, China\" are a set of politically controversial and potentially ambiguous terms that characterize Taiwan and its associated territories as a province or territory of \"China\". The term, \"Taiwan, China\" is used by Chinese media whenever Taiwan is referenced by Chinese media. In English, \"China\" is inserted after \"Taiwan\" by adding , per English grammar rules. In the Chinese language, however, the Chinese characters (\"China\") would be inserted in front of \"\" (Taiwan) per Chinese convention to indicate a country and its subdivisions. For example, the word \"China\" would be inserted into video captions on television, whenever a person mentions the word \"Taiwan\" but the characters (\"China\") would be inserted in front of \"Taiwan\" () despite the fact that the person never said the word \"China\", to propagandize to the world that Taiwan is part of \"China\". (Video subtitling is standard practice in the Chinese language due to the existence of many mutually unintelligible \"Chinese dialects\".) The term \"Taiwan, Province of China\" also sometimes appears in the drop-down menu of websites and computer software that show a list of ISO 3166-1 country names (see UN and ISO section below).\n\nThe terms are contentious and potentially ambiguous because they relate to the controversial issues of the political status of Taiwan and Cross-Strait relations between \"Taiwan\" and \"China\", in that whether they are two separate countries or \"two areas of one country\". Since 1949, two countries with the name \"China\" (Two Chinas) actually exist, namely the Republic of China (ROC, founded 1912 and now commonly known as \"Taiwan\") and the People's Republic of China (PRC, founded 1949 and now commonly known as \"China\", and \"\"the\" China\"). However, only one \"China\" actually rules Taiwan, namely Republic of China, and has an administrative division called \"Taiwan Province\" but refers to it as \"Taiwan Province, Republic of China\"; whereas, the other \"China\", namely the People's Republic of China, which is the one internationally recognized as \"China\" (not the ROC), \"claims\" but does not control Taiwan as part of its territory.\n\nThe juxtaposition of \"Taiwan\" and \"China\" in this order into one single term \"Taiwan, China\" implicitly places the Taiwan under the sovereignty of PRC/\"China\", in the same sense as \"California, USA\". The use of this term is officially and politically sanctioned by the Communist Chinese government as a way to claim and propagandize that Taiwan is under its sovereignty, since the PRC claims to be the legitimate government of \"all China\", which, according to its own definition, includes Taiwan also, despite its lack of control. Some of the ROC government disputes the PRC position and it, along with Many of the Taiwanese people, considers this term incorrect and offensive, in that its use is a lie which denies the ROC's sovereignty and existence, reducing Taiwan's status to a province of the PRC (see \"Taiwan, PRC\"), and objects to its use. The term is particularly offensive to supporters of Taiwan Independence and want to disassociate Taiwan with \"China\" and a Chinese identity, (i.e., de-Sinicize), and consider it an oxymoron, i.e. in the view that Taiwan and China are different countries, and that the legitimacy of the ROC's rule of Taiwan is disputed in the first place.\n\nThe dispute and ambiguity over the meaning of \"China\" and which \"China\" stemmed from the division of Republic of China into two Chinas at the \"end\" of the Chinese Civil War in 1955. (Fighting between the two merely eased off after 1949 and no signing of a peace treaty or armistice ever occurred; the PRC still threatens attack on ROC/Taiwan when it deems necessary.) The term \"China\" historically meant the various regimes and imperial dynasties which controlled territories in mainland Asia prior to 1911, when the imperial system was overthrown and the Republic of China (ROC) was established as the first republic in Asia. In 1927, the Chinese Civil War started between the Kuomintang (KMT, founding party of the ROC) and the Communist Party of China, a rebel force at the time. The Chinese Communists eventually won control of most of ROC's original territory (mainland China) in 1949, when they proclaimed the \"People's Republic of China\" (PRC) on that territory.\n\nSince then, two Chinas have existed, although the PRC was not internationally recognized at the time. The Republic of China government, who received Taiwan in 1945 from Japan then fled in 1949 to Taiwan with the aim to retake mainland China and retained the name \"Republic of China\". Both the ROC and the PRC still officially (constitutionally) claim mainland China and the Taiwan Area as part of their respective territories. In reality, the PRC rules only Mainland China and has no control of but claims Taiwan as part of its territory under its \"One China Principle\". The ROC, which only rules the Taiwan Area (composed of Taiwan and its nearby minor islands), became known as \"Taiwan\" after its largest island, (an instance of \"pars pro toto\"). It stopped active claim of mainland China as part of its territory after constitutional reform in 1991.\n\nHowever, since the 2008 election of Ma Ying-jeou, he again asserted that mainland China is part of Republic of China territory according to its constitution, and, in 2013, he stated that relations between PRC and ROC are not between countries but \"regions of the same country\".\n\nIn 1971, the People's Republic of China won the United Nations seat as \"China\" and use of the name and expelled the ROC from the UN. Since then the term \"Taiwan, China\" is a designation typically used in international organizations like the United Nations and its associated organs under pressure from the PRC to accommodate its claim and to give the false impression that Taiwan belongs to the PRC. (The term \"Chinese Taipei\" was similarly created for the same purpose.) However, the political status of Taiwan is a complex and controversial issue and currently unresolved, in large part due to the United States and the Allies of World War II handling of the surrender of Taiwan from Japan in 1945 (which was to be a temporary administration by the ROC troops), and the Treaty of Peace with Japan (\"Treaty of San Francisco\") in 1951, for which neither the ROC nor the PRC was invited, and left Taiwan's sovereignty legally undefined in international law and in dispute.\n\nThe term \"Taiwan, (Province of) China\" is also potentially ambiguous because both the ROC and the PRC each has administratively a \"Taiwan Province\", Taiwan Province, Republic of China and \"Taiwan Province, People's Republic of China\", and neither of these provinces covers the Matsu Islands, Wuchiu, Kinmen, all of which have been retained by the Republic of China. Geographically speaking, they both refer to the same place. The existence of the extra term \"Taiwan Province, PRC\" is merely because of PRC's insistence that Taiwan is part of China. Without more specific indication, it is unclear to which \"Taiwan Province\" is being referred. However, since China (PRC) does not control Taiwan and its \"Taiwan Province\" exists only on paper, as a practical matter, \"Taiwan Province\" refers only to the Taiwan Province under Republic of China's administration.\n\nAlthough the word \"China\" could also possibly be interpreted to mean \"Republic of China\", this interpretation is no longer common since \"China\" is typically understood as referring to the PRC after the ROC lost its UN seat as \"China\" in 1971, and is considered a term distinct from \"Taiwan\", the name with which the ROC has become identified. Also, only the ROC's Taiwan Province exists in reality and is under the ROC's actual territorial control, whereas the PRC's \"Taiwan Province\" exists only on paper, under the PRC's \nadministrative structure but without an actual provincial government. Instead, the PRC has a Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council to deal with issues and policy guidelines relating to Taiwan.\n\nThe ROC also does not refer to its Taiwan Province as \"Taiwan, China\" in English but rather as \"Taiwan Province, Republic of China\" (), and typically such reference only occurs in the Chinese language in the ROC's official documents and as the marquee in the administrative offices of Taiwan Province government. However, references to the province is now rare since the Taiwan Provincial Government has largely been dissolved and its functions transferred to the central government or county governments since 1997. Therefore, recent uses of the term \"Taiwan, Province of China\" appears mainly in PRC-controlled media like CCTV (Chinese Central Television) and in the ISO 3166-1 codes to convey the sense that Taiwan is part of \"its\" \"China\".\n\nAlthough the Republic of China is no longer a member of the United Nations, the term \"Taiwan, China\" has sometimes been used by the U.N. to refer to the Republic of China. (The ROC is prohibited from using its official name internationally under pressure from the PRC and uses \"Chinese Taipei\" in other organizations.) The ROC sees its use as a denial of the ROC's status as a separate sovereign state, diminishing it under \"China\", which implicitly is the PRC. Various instances of the use of the term by international organizations or news media have been met with protest from the Taiwanese government officials and citizens.\n\nIn an incident on 10 May 2011, the World Health Organization (WHO), an agency of the UN, referred to Taiwan as \"Taiwan, China\" in its documents. (The ROC participates in the WHO under the name \"Chinese Taipei\", due to political pressure from the PRC.) ROC president Ma Ying-jeou protested the WHO's action and accused the PRC of \"pressuring the UN body into calling\" the ROC \"Chinese territory\", and stated that Beijing's moves were \"very negative\" for bilateral ties. Ma, who took office in 2008, has taken many measures to improve Cross-Strait relations.\n\nThe confusion and fight over use of the \"China\" name and the lack of name recognition of \"Republic of China\" itself and recognition as a country are part of the reason for the supporters of Taiwan independence to push for an identity apart from \"China\" and for renaming the ROC and gaining international recognition as \"Republic of Taiwan\". Some supporters also reject the legitimacy of Republic of China's takeover of Taiwan from Japan at the end of World War II since 1945 (due to the lack of transfer of sovereignty in the Treaty of Peace with Japan). They also view that Taiwan is no longer part of China since \"China\" is recognized by the UN as being the People's Republic of China (PRC) rather than the ROC/Taiwan, so placing \"Taiwan\" and \"China\" together in one term is not only incorrect and an oxymoron but also offensively denies the ROC's national sovereignty and existence and places it under China.\n\nThe term \"Taiwan, Province of China\" also appears in the International Organization for Standardization's ISO 3166-1 country codes because its information source, the publication \"UN Terminology Bulletin-Country Names\", lists Taiwan as \"Taiwan, Province of China\" due to the PRC's political influence in the United Nations as a member of the UN Security Council. Since the ISO 3166-1 code is commonly used as the data source for a complete list of country and territory names for computer programs and websites, \"Taiwan, Province of China\" is sometimes seen on dropdown menus instead of \"Taiwan\" for this reason.\n\nThe term is often used in Chinese media whenever the word \"Taiwan\" is mentioned, as in news reports and in TV shows. Particularly, when Taiwanese entertainers are on talk shows or being interviewed, the Chinese subtitles on the TV screen would always say \"Taiwan, China\" ( / ) despite the fact the person never mentioned the word \"China\" ( / ), thereby putting words in the person's mouth. (It is standard practice for Chinese television to display subtitles in all programs.) Also, there has been controversy about Chinese talent shows forcing Taiwanese contestants to introduce themselves as from \"Taiwan, China\" or from \"Chinese Taipei.\" For example, Taiwanese singer \n, on her first appearance on the Voice of China, introduced herself as being from \"Pingtung District, China Taipei,\" which caused an uproar among Taiwanese netizens. Her response was that she was instructed to say so by the directors and was nervous.\n\nIf a place of birth on a United States passport application is written as \"Taiwan, China\" that cannot be shown in passports per One-China Policy, the United States Department of State requires its officials to contact the applicant to ascertain whether \"Taiwan\" or \"China\" is preferred place of birth to be printed.\n\nIn Vietnam, most government documents and many state media usually use the forms [\"Taiwan (China)\"] or (\"Taiwan, China\") to refer to Taiwan or Republic of China in many contexts, including in music and entertainment coverage. In other media, they often use the term (\"territory\") or (\"island\") to refer to Taiwan when wanting to avoid repeating the term \"Taiwan\" many times in their article. The term (\"Taiwan Province\") sometimes appear in media to refer to all of \"Taiwan Area\" (not only referring to the Taiwan Province of ROC). In general, Vietnamese state media never refer to Taiwan as a \"nation\" or a \"state\".\n\nIn April, 2018, the China Civil Aviation Authority, wrote a letter to 36 airlines throughout the world, including US Airlines Delta, United, and American, Canadian airline Air Canada, Japan Airlines, ANA, Air New Zealand, Qantas, etc., demanding that they change travel destination cities in Taiwan in their websites to list them under \"Taiwan, Province of China\", or directly list them as, for example, \"Taipei, China\" and \"Kaohsiung, China\". Air Canada and other non-US airlines quickly complied. However, US Airlines requested a time extension to consider the issue, and replied to the China Civil Aviation Authority that they will confer with the U.S. government regarding the course of action. The White House responded by labeling the move as \"Orwellian nonsense\". The China Civil Aviation Authority therefore extended the deadline for US airlines to July 25, 2018 for compliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "53871181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53871181", "title": "The Great Cat and Dog Massacre", "text": "The Great Cat and Dog Massacre\n\nThe Great Cat and Dog Massacre is a non-fiction book written by Hilda Kean. It tells the story of the September 1939 time period at the start of World War II, when hundreds of thousands of British family pets were preemptively euthanized in anticipation of air raids and resource shortages.\n\nKean also uses the episode to discuss people's feelings about their pets and the psychology of a population at war.\n\nThe book was published in 2017 by University of Chicago Press. Its title is a reference to Robert Darnton's 1984 work \"The Great Cat Massacre\".\n"}
{"id": "2869911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2869911", "title": "The Harafish", "text": "The Harafish\n\nThe Harafish () (in orig. Arabic \"Malhamat al-harafish\") is a novel written by Naguib Mahfouz. It comprises a series of episodes in a dozen generations of a family from the Egyptian urban rabble (the \"harafish\"). Many of the members of this family become clan chiefs in an alley in the city; some of them are benefactors to the other members of the harafish; some are more corrupt. Neither the location within Egypt nor the time of the events is ever identified.\n"}
{"id": "52452952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52452952", "title": "The Independence Generation of Armenian Writers", "text": "The Independence Generation of Armenian Writers\n\nThe Independence Generation of Armenian writers is a group of writers whose literature was created after the independence of Armenia in 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "25490788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25490788", "title": "Third culture kid", "text": "Third culture kid\n\nThird culture kids (TCK) are persons raised in a culture other than their parents' or the culture of the country named on their passport (where they are legally considered native) for a significant part of their early development years. They are exposed to a greater variety of cultural influences. The term can refer to both adults and children, as the term \"kid\" points more to an individual's formative or developmental years, but for clarification, sometimes the term adult third culture kid (ATCK) is used.\n\nTCKs move between cultures before they have had the opportunity to fully develop their personal and cultural identity. The first culture of such individuals refers to the culture of the country from which the parents originated, the second culture refers to the culture in which the family currently resides, and although not widely agreed upon by the TCK community, some sources refer to the third culture as the amalgamation of these two cultures.\n\nIn the early 21st century, the number of bilingual children in the world was about the same as the number of monolingual children. TCKs are often exposed to a second (or third, fourth, etc.) language while living in their host culture, being physically exposed to the environment where the native language is used in practical aspects of life. \"TCKs learn some languages in schools abroad and some in their homes or in the marketplaces of a foreign land. ... Some pick up languages from the nannies in the home or from playmates in the neighborhood\" (Bell-Villada et al. 23). This language immersion is why TCKs are often bilingual, and sometimes even multilingual.\n\nThe term \"third culture kid\" was first coined by researchers John and Ruth Useem in the 1950s, who used it to describe the children of American citizens working and living abroad. Ruth Useem first used the term after her second year-long visit to India with her fellow sociologist/anthropologist husband and three children.\n\nUseem et al. (1963) depicted individuals who have undergone such an experience as having distinct standards of interpersonal behavior, work-related norms, codes of lifestyle and perspectives, and communication. This creates a new cultural group that does not fall into their home or host culture, but rather share a culture with all other TCKs. In 1993 she wrote:\nKay Branaman Eakin, the former Education Counselor for the United States Department of State, worked with American families returning to the United States after having lived abroad. She described a TCK as \"someone who, as a child, has spent a significant period of time in one or more culture(s) other than [his/her] own, thus integrating elements of those cultures and their own birth culture, into a third culture.\" In 1984, author and researcher Norma McCaig used the term \"global nomad\", which is synonymous with TCK, but was used in order to take into account that the child's situation was as a result of a parent or parents' career or life choice(s).\n\nThird culture kids can also be referred to as cultural hybrids, cultural chameleons, and global nomads. TCKs are particularly adept at building relationships with other cultures while not possessing a cultural identity of their own. It has been discussed in the past that the characteristics that have been put forth by prominent researchers in the TCK field have only been discussed when referring to American children who have lived abroad. However, there has been further research done on TCKs that shows that the same characteristics described by Pollock and Useem in the most prominent TCK literature also apply to individuals from other nations who have also lived abroad for extended periods of time during their developmental years.\nThere are benefits and challenges to being a TCK according to various researchers on the subject. The term TCKs may be applied to all social classes and although there are certain distinctions between TCKs and immigrants, it can include immigrant and refugee students (Dewaele 8c van Oudenhoven, 2009).\n\n\n\nOne of the challenges of being a third culture kid during childhood is developing a sense of belonging, commitment, and attachment to a culture. These factors play a strong role in one's self-esteem and identity, and are especially apparent as present or not present among TCKs. There are psychological benefits to being a bi-culturally competent individual, meaning that adjustment to the host culture and repatriation do not pose a difficulty for the individual. Individuals who do not experience this same smooth transition into the new culture are referred to as \"culturally rootless\" and \"cultural homelessness\". Culturally homeless (CH) individuals often experience confusion over their identity and especially because the TCK is frequently abroad during the adolescent development years when identity is most solidified psychologically.\n\nWhen individuals who have spent a significant number of their developmental years in a host culture and have not been able to adapt, develop an identity, and do not feel as though they belong, they are considered \"culturally homeless\". Cultural homelessness has been found to have both advantages and disadvantages, at times to being associated with low self-esteem, perceiving less control over one's own life, and an unsatisfactory level of experience with belonging and attachment.\n\nTCKs have the unique experience of being exposed to and living in cultures different from their home culture for extended periods of time. Based on only one source, this has been found to affect their level of authoritarianism, both positively and negatively depending on the circumstance of the TCK. Within the context of the methodology and subjects selected in the study, authoritarianism measurements were used by the researchers on individuals, and high scores on the right-wing authoritarian scale (RWA) have been found to possess the following three personality characteristics: a tendency to submit themselves to authority figures, a willingness to commit an act of aggression for the sake of this authority or authorities, and possessing significant concern with acting according to the rules and norms of their group.\n\nThough research initially largely focused on children in missionary families or children of diplomats, it has since expanded to other populations, including non-U.S. citizens. The researchers who pioneered the TCK research, such as Ruth Useem, were not expecting to find as many participants as they did. Useem and Cottrell, for example, were seeking at least 100 participants to respond to a survey that they believed to be \"unconsciously long\" but instead had 680 participants (ranging in age from 25–84 years) respond to the questionnaire. Instances like this one indicate to researchers the potential in exploring a subject matter that is still open to much research.\n\nFrom the research that has been conducted on TCKs, it has been found that subjects are generally more tolerant of different cultures and of people of different backgrounds than subjects from the same home country who are not TCKs. In addition, TCKs generally feel that they are better able to adapt to new cultures and understand how to behave appropriately in these new environments. Researcher and teacher Wenda Sheard surveyed some of her multi-cultural students, most of whom were either fluent in two or more languages, and found that many felt that they had an increased tolerance of other cultures. However, as one student explained, part of this tolerance was out of necessity for maintaining a healthy social life in one's new environment and culture.\nIn a study by Dewaele and van Oudenhoven (2009), it was found that TCKs scored higher on the open-mindedness scale on the Multicultural Personality Questionnaire (MPQ). According to the study, \"this dimension [of the test] evaluates for open and unprejudiced attitudes toward out-group members, as well as diverse cultural norms and values.\"\n\nThough the intellectual effect of being a TCK has not yet been widely explored, there has been some research in the area. One particular study by Lee and Bain (2007) that was found to have significant findings was conducted on young native Koreans who had recently moved to the United States and were attending school in America. The researchers were looking to see how these students would respond to explicit instruction aimed to work with their originality and fluency and that is specific to TCKs. This was measured through the level of creativity demonstrated in assigned tasks given to the students. TCKs were found to be able to demonstrate significantly higher levels of creativity and originality for problem solving than TCKs not given this same explicit instruction. This study has implications for the ways that TCKs can be instructed differently from the traditional curriculum to enhance their creativity and problem solving abilities because of their third culture experience.\n\nIntellectual effect is also possible through differences in choosing to continue studies in higher education after high school. In 2001, it was found by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics that 61.7 percent of 2001 high school graduates were enrolled in college. That same year, it was found that 95 percent of the TCK population were either enrolled or had some college education. Twenty-nine percent of this population had received an advanced degree, which is also higher than the percentage of the general population.\n\nMuch of the literature and research surrounding TCKs has found that these individuals are more open to learning new languages, demonstrate more flexibility when interacting with a novel culture than their monoculture peers, and a greater interest in continuing a global nomad lifestyle, which includes an interest in international careers. It has been found that women are more inclined to seek out interpersonal relationships while men are more task-oriented in their relationships and choices. Such findings were used in the hypothesis of a study conducted by Gerner & Perry (2000) that predicted that gender differences would also be found in the cultural acceptance and experiences of TCKs.\n\nBoth non-U.S. citizen females and U.S. citizen females were found to have more positive ratings of cultural acceptance, acquisition or exposure to a new language, travel, and interest in going into an international career in the future and were less prone to stereotypes.\n\nWith the growing number of international business, military placements, and immigration there has been a growing number of TCKs. Third culture kids are being educated in a culture that is not their own. Schools and teachers need to be aware of the culture differences these students face. Studies have found that educators and counselors should be culturally competent and possess the knowledge to properly educate these type of students. This would create an effective and optimal environment for their learning and adjusting abilities. Research conducted on TCKs have been found to need special attention during their transition phase. The stress and grief students feel during transitional phases can distort their psycho-social development which can affect their grades and school work. Therefore, Third Culture Kid students need a comfortable and inviting school setting to offset the effect of their transition. The best way for counselors to work with TCKs is to have sound knowledge about the students and their unique characteristics.\n\nAn empirical research was done by Katholiki Georgiades, Michael H. Boyle, and Kelly A. Fife over the Emotional and Behavior Problems Among Adolescent Students, in specific immigrant students. They examined the relationship between immigrants and racial/ethnic congruence in school. They hypothesized that school belonging is the connection between the congruency and the emotional problems. Although their study was unable to find enough evidence to support their hypothesis they agree that school belonging will influence emotional behavioral problems. According to other studies, TCKs are proven to have less emotional stability than those who grew up in more culturally and socially stable environment.\n\nTCKs who have parents or guardians affiliated with the military have varying levels of exposure to local culture. This is due to the possibility of living on base or off base. TCKs who live off base or who are not closely affiliated with the military (such as contractors) will have higher exposure and cultural shaping, while those who spend the majority of their time on the base will have lower exposure and minimal cultural shaping. Military children who are immersed in local culture from birth tend to show an extremely high level of cultural shaping, and upon relocation they are likely to cling to said culture for years, if not their lifetime. Relocation for these particular TCKs has shown to be particularly marring for them emotionally.\nSee also Military brat (U.S. subculture).\n\nSome of these TCKs may grow up moving from country to country in the diplomatic corps (see Foreign Service Brat) while others may live their lives near military bases.\n\nMissionary Kids (MKs) typically spend the most time overseas, of any TCKs, in one country. 85% of MKs spend more than 10 years in foreign countries and 72% lived in only one foreign country. Of all TCKs, MKs generally have the most interaction with the local populace and the least interaction with people from their passport country. They are also the most likely of the TCKs to integrate themselves into the local culture. 83% of missionary kids have at least one parent with an advanced degree.\nMissionary kids struggle adjusting to the parents culture; the majority of MKs identify mostly with the country in which their parents served.\n\nPriests' Kids (PKs) or Pastor's Kids are sometimes considered TCKs because they, like military brats, grow up moving from place to place regularly, but are sometimes excluded because they do not often grow up outside their passport country.\n\nAnother career that can lead to TCKs is a career in business. Sixty-three percent of business TCKs have lived in foreign countries at least 10 years but are more likely than children in missionary families to live in multiple countries. Business TCKs have fairly high interaction with both their host nationals and people from their host country.\n\nNot all TCK families have one of the fours careers listed above. Other careers include working for an intergovernmental agency (for example, the Nuclear Energy Agency, the Commonwealth Secretariat, and the International Agency of the Francophonie), an international non-governmental organization (for example, an international school or serving as international staff of the United Nations or one of their agencies), and a local organization such as a hospital. Working in media and/or athletic industries (for example, Wally Szczerbiak) can also mean being moved abroad. Like most of the other careers that send employees abroad, involvement with the host culture can vary greatly.\n\nRecent research into the 'other' category has identified a subgroup of TCKs now labelled EdKids. These are children who relocate to various countries with their parents who are educators in the international schools. This creates a unique paradigm of a nuclear family whose family-work-school-social experiences are intertwined.\n\nThird culture kids, with their international experience, generally value the international aspect of their lives. In a survey given to TCKs in 2001, there was a strong interest among TCK participants to continue to travel as they move into adulthood and their future careers, and many continued to maintain their internationally acquired languages. It was also found in these surveys that approximately half of the participants continue to travel at least once a year and that just a little under 15 percent travel for business. TCKs have also been found to report selecting to study majors while in college that could have the options of having international careers. Some of these fields of study include business, nursing, and teaching English as a foreign language.\n\nBelow are tables showing some of the fields that TCK go into.\n\nMost international TCKs are expected to speak English and some countries require their expatriate families to be proficient with the English language. This is largely because most international schools use the English language as the norm.\n\nFamilies tend to seek out schools whose principal languages they share, and ideally one which mirrors their own educational system. Many countries have American schools, French schools, British schools, German Schools and 'International Schools' which often follow one of the three International Baccalaureate programs. These will be populated by expatriates' children and some children of the local upper middle class. They do this in an effort to maintain linguistic stability and to ensure that their children do not fall behind due to linguistic problems. Where their own language is not available, families will often choose English-speaking schools for their children. They do this because of the linguistic and cultural opportunities being immersed in English might provide their children when they are adults, and because their children are more likely to have prior exposure to English than to other international languages. This poses the potential for non-English speaking TCKs to have a significantly different experience from TCKs for whom English is a native language. Research on TCKs from Japan, Denmark, Italy, Germany, the United States and Africa has shown that TCKs from different countries share more in common with other TCKs than they do with their own peer group from their passport country.\n\nA few sociologists studying TCKs, however, argue that the commonality found in international TCKs is not the result of true commonality, but rather the researcher's bias projecting expectations upon the studied subculture. They believe that some of the superficial attributes may mirror each other, but that TCKs from different countries are really different from one another. The exteriors may be the same, but that the understanding of the world around them differs.\n\nIn Japan, the use of the term \"third culture kids\" to refer to children returned from living overseas is not universally accepted; they are typically referred to both in Japanese and in English as \"kikokushijo\", literally \"returnee children\", a term which has different implications. Public awareness of \"kikokushijo\" is much more widespread in Japan than awareness of TCKs in the United States, and government reports as early as 1966 recognised the need for the school system to adapt to them. However, views of \"kikokushijo\" have not always been positive; in the 1970s, especially, they were characterised in media reports and even by their own parents as \"educational orphans\" in need of \"rescue\" to reduce their foreignness and successfully reintegrate them into Japanese society.\n\nResearch has been done on American TCKs to identify various characteristics:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "90804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90804", "title": "Ti Malice and Bouki", "text": "Ti Malice and Bouki\n\nIn Haitian folklore, Ti Malice is a trickster character, nemesis of Uncle Bouki or Tonton Bouqui. While Ti Malice is smart and guileful, Uncle Bouki while hardworking is also very greedy. It is the apt manipulation of this greed that allows Ti Malice to often best Uncle Bouki. These characters are said to be a split of Anansi, the trickster character of the Ashanti of Ghana.\n"}
{"id": "44123413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44123413", "title": "Zimbabwean Canadians", "text": "Zimbabwean Canadians\n\nZimbabwean Canadians are Canadian citizens of Zimbabwean descent or a Zimbabwe-born person who resides in Canada. According to the Canada 2011 Census there were 6,425 Canadian citizens who claimed Zimbabwean ancestry and 5,065 Zimbabwean citizens residing in the country at the moment of the census.\n\n"}
