{"id": "53678740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53678740", "title": "A Woman's Case", "text": "A Woman's Case\n\nA Woman's Case (, tr. Mikreh Isha) is a 1969 black and white Israeli independent underground experimental dramatic art film, the first Israeli film to be screened at the Venice Film Festival, directed by Jacques Katmor, and, usually, categorized as belonging to the bohemian/counterculture and anarchistic movement. The film was released on DVD by NMC Music. Cinematographer and coscreenwriter Amnon Salomon stated, during an interview, held late in life, that the film's origin is in Katmor's early exhibition, dealing with the female body, and, that no commercial motivations were held by the filmmakers.\n\nThis modernist and non-linear film, influenced by the French New Wave, and, especially, by films such as \"Jules and Jim\" and \"Breathless\", tells the story of an advertiser (Yossi Spector), in his forties, who, meets Helit (), a model, in her twenties, and, together, the two spend a day in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, The model leads the advertiser into cafés and drug-fueled orgies, while, he leads her into the workshops of sculptors, so, that they could create sculptures, modeled on her body, out of gypsum. While she tries to liberate his mind, he attempts to stay where he is. The film ends with the advertiser strangling Helit to death, during a sadomasochistic session.\n\n\"Maariv\" compared the film to the works of James Joyce, Jean-Luc Godard, and, Michelangelo Antonioni, with the acting of being compared to that of Monica Vitti, writer Yoram Kaniuk wrote that the film is a critique of the horrors of the modern world, and, \"Davar\" compared the film to painting. The film, however, was a commercial failure, with only 38,000 tickets sold, due to its highly avant-garde nature. University of Haifa sociologist, Prof. Dr. , wrote that film's main theme is the independent woman's, unsuccessful, attempt to free the man, from the shackles of his masculinity, and, noted that it was one of the first Israeli films to express their director's personal view.\n\n"}
{"id": "7714070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7714070", "title": "Acoustic transmission", "text": "Acoustic transmission\n\nAcoustic transmission is the transmission of sounds through and between materials, including air, wall, and musical instruments.\n\nThe degree to which sound is transferred between two materials depends on how well their acoustical impedances match. \n\nMusical instruments are generally designed to radiate sound effectively. A high-impedance part of the instrument, such as a string, transmits vibrations through a bridge (intermediate impedance) to a sound board (lower impedance). The soundboard then moves the still lower-impedance air. Without bridge and soundboard, the instrument does not transmit enough sound to the air, and is too quiet to be performed with. An electric guitar has no soundboard; it uses a microphone pick-up and artificial amplification. Without amplification, electric guitars are very quiet.\n\nStethoscopes roughly match the acoustical impedance of the human body, so they transmit sounds from a patient's chest to the doctor's ear much more effectively than the air does. Putting an ear to someone's chest would have a similar effect.\n\nAcoustic transmission in building design refers to a number of processes by which sound can be transferred from one part of a building to another. Typically these are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6549167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6549167", "title": "Apollo 11 missing tapes", "text": "Apollo 11 missing tapes\n\nThe Apollo 11 missing tapes were those that were recorded from Apollo 11's slow-scan television (SSTV) telecast in its raw format on telemetry data tape at the time of the first moon landing in 1969 and subsequently lost. The data tapes were recorded as a backup in case the live television broadcasts failed for any reason.\n\nIn order to broadcast the SSTV transmission on standard television, NASA ground receiving stations performed real-time scan conversion to the NTSC television format. The moonwalk's converted video signal was broadcast live around the world on July 21, 1969 (2:56 UTC). At the time, the NTSC broadcast was recorded on many videotapes and kinescope films. Many of these low-quality recordings remain intact. The SSTV signal was recorded on telemetry data tapes as a backup in the event that real-time conversion and broadcast failed. As the real-time broadcast worked, was shown and widely recorded, preservation of the backup video was not deemed a priority in the years immediately following the mission. In the early 1980s NASA's Landsat program was facing a severe data tape shortage and it is likely the tapes were erased and reused at this time.\n\nA team of retired NASA employees and contractors tried to find the tapes in the early 2000s but was unable to do so. The search was sparked when several still photographs appeared in the late 1990s that showed the superior-looking raw SSTV transmission on ground station monitors. The research team conducted a multi-year investigation in the hopes of finding the most pristine and detailed video images of the moonwalk. If copies of the original SSTV format tapes were to be found, more modern digital technology could make a higher-quality conversion, yielding better images than those originally seen. The researchers concluded that the tapes containing the raw unprocessed Apollo 11 SSTV signal were erased and reused by NASA in the early 1980s, following standard procedure at the time. \n\nAlthough the researchers never found the telemetry tapes they were looking for, they did discover the best visual quality NTSC videotapes as well as super 8 movie film taken of a video monitor in Australia, showing the SSTV transmission before it was converted. These visual elements were processed in 2009, as part of a NASA approved restoration project of the first moonwalk. At a 2009 news conference in Washington, D.C., the research team released its findings regarding the tapes' disappearance. They also partially released newly enhanced footage obtained during the search. Lowry Digital completed the full moonwalk restoration project in late 2009.\n\nApollo 11 was the spaceflight that landed the first two people on the Moon. Neil Armstrong became the first person to step onto the lunar surface on July 21, 1969, at 02:56 UTC; Buzz Aldrin joined him about 20 minutes later.\n\nOnly limited radio bandwidth was available to transmit the video signal from the lunar landings, which needed to be multiplexed with other communication and telemetry channels beamed from the Lunar Module, back to Earth. Therefore, Apollo 11's moonwalk video was transmitted from the Apollo TV camera in a monochrome SSTV format at 10 frames per second (fps) with 320 lines of resolution, progressively scanned. These SSTV signals were received by radio telescopes at Parkes Observatory, the Goldstone tracking station, and Honeysuckle Creek tracking station. The camera's video format was incompatible with existing NTSC, PAL, and SECAM broadcast television standards. It needed to be converted before it could be shown on broadcast television networks. This live conversion was crude, essentially using a video camera pointing at a high-quality 10-inch TV monitor.\n\nSince the camera's scan rate was much lower than the approximately 30 fps for NTSC video, the television standard used in North America at the time, a real-time scan conversion was needed to be able to show its images on a regular TV set. NASA selected a scan converter manufactured by RCA to convert the black-and-white SSTV signals from the Apollo 7, 8, 9, and 11 missions.\n\nWhen the Apollo TV camera radioed its images, the ground stations received its raw unconverted SSTV signal and split it into two branches. One signal branch was sent unprocessed to a fourteen-track analog data tape recorder where it was recorded onto fourteen-inch diameter reels of one-inch-wide analog magnetic data tapes at per second. The other raw SSTV signal branch was sent to the RCA scan converter where it would be processed into an NTSC broadcast television signal.\n\nThe RCA scan converter operated on an optical conversion principle. The conversion process started when the signal was sent to a high-quality 10-inch video monitor where a conventional RCA TK-22 television camera—using the NTSC broadcast standard of 525 scanned lines interlaced at 30 fps—merely re-photographed its screen. The monitor had persistent phosphors, that acted as a primitive framebuffer. An analog disk recorder, based on the Ampex HS-100 model, was used to record the first field from the camera. It then fed that field, and an appropriately time-delayed copy of the first field, to the NTSC Field Interlace Switch (encoder). The combined original and copied fields created the first full 525-line interlaced frame and the signal was then sent to Houston. The disk recorder repeated this sequence five more times, until the camera imaged the next SSTV frame. The converter then repeated the whole process with each new frame downloaded from space in real-time. In this way, the RCA converter produced the extra 20 frames per second needed to produce flicker-free images to the world's television broadcasters.\n\nThis live conversion was crude compared to early-21st-century electronic digital conversion techniques. Image degradation was unavoidable with this system as the monitor and camera's optical limitations significantly lowered the original SSTV signal's contrast, brightness and resolution. If the scan converter's settings were incorrectly set, as they were at the Goldstone station during the first few minutes of Apollo 11's moonwalk, the negative impact on the image could be very obvious. When Armstrong first came down the Lunar Module's ladder, he was barely visible because the contrast and the vertical phase were not set correctly by the scan converter operator. The video seen on home television sets was further degraded by the very long and noisy analog transmission path. The converted signal was sent by satellite from the three receiving ground stations to Houston, Texas. Then the network pool feed was sent by microwave relay to New York, where it was broadcast live to the United States and the world. Because all of these links were analog, each one added additional noise and distortion to the signal.\n\nThis low-quality optical conversion of the Apollo 11 moonwalk video images—made with a TV camera taking pictures of a video monitor—is what was widely recorded in real-time onto kinescope film and NTSC broadcast-quality 2-inch quadruplex videotape. Recordings of this conversion were not lost and have long been available to the public (along with much higher quality video from later Apollo missions). If the one inch data tapes, with the raw unprocessed Apollo 11 SSTV signals on them, were to be found, modern digital technology would allow for significantly better conversion and processing. The quality would be similar to what a few technicians and others saw at SSTV receiving ground stations before it got converted to NTSC.\n\nIn 2005, an amateur Super 8 movie with about 15 minutes of Apollo 11 images was rediscovered. The footage had been taken by Ed von Renouard at Honeysuckle Creek tracking station during or immediately after the Apollo 11 moonwalk. The images show mainly the scan converted monitor and briefly the slow scan monitor. This is some of the best quality recording of brief segments of the Apollo 11 moonwalk available. The images are available on DVD.\n\nNews that these analog data tapes were missing emerged on August 5, 2006 when the printed and online versions of \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" published a story with the title \"One giant blunder for mankind: how NASA lost moon pictures\". The missing tapes were among over 700 boxes of magnetic data tapes recorded throughout the Apollo program which have not been found. On August 16, 2006 NASA announced its official search saying, \"The original tapes may be at the Goddard Space Flight Center ... or at another location within the NASA archiving system\", \"NASA engineers are hopeful that when the tapes are found they can use today's digital technology to provide a version of the moonwalk that is much better quality than what we have today.\" NASA also had ongoing research reasons for finding these higher resolution tapes, as the Constellation program then planned shared some similar tasks with the original Apollo program.\n\nThe Goddard Center's Data Evaluation Laboratory has the only known surviving piece of equipment which can read the missing tapes and was set to be closed in October 2006, causing some fear that, even if the tapes were later found, there would be no ready way to read and copy them. However, equipment that could read the tapes was maintained.\n\nOn November 1, 2006 \"Cosmos\" magazine reported that some NASA telemetry tapes from the Apollo project era had been found in a small marine science laboratory within the main physics building at Curtin University in Perth, Western Australia. One of these tapes was sent to NASA for analysis. It carried no video but did show that if any of the tapes are ever found, data could likely be read from them.\n\nNASA held a news conference at the Newseum, in Washington, D.C. regarding the missing tapes on July 16, 2009 – the 40th anniversary of Apollo 11's launch from Cape Kennedy. The multinational research team looking into the missing tapes – mostly retired engineers who had worked on the original broadcast in 1969 — was represented at the event by Richard Nafzger from the Goddard Space Flight Center, and Stanley Lebar, the former lead engineer at Westinghouse that developed the Apollo Lunar Camera and the Apollo Color Camera. They concluded that the data tapes – with the SSTV signal – were shipped from Australia to Goddard and then routinely erased and reused a few years later. Australian backup tapes were also erased after Goddard received the reels, following the procedures established by NASA. The SSTV signal was recorded on telemetry data tapes mostly as a backup in case the real-time conversion and broadcast around the world failed. Since the real-time broadcast conversion worked, and was widely recorded on both videotape and film, the backup video was not deemed important at the time. In the early 1980s, NASA's Landsat program was facing a severe data tape shortage and it is likely that during this period the tapes were erased and reused.\n\nThere was also documentation that the Apollo 11 moonwalk SSTV was recorded at the Parkes, Australia facility on modified Ampex 2-inch helical scan VTRs. The VTRs were modified by Johns Hopkins University's Applied Physics Labs to record 320-line slow-scan video directly to the videotape without converting it. It was confirmed that these tapes were shipped to Johns Hopkins University, but could not be found by the search team.\n\nNafzger stated that they did find several post-conversion copies of the broadcast that were higher quality than what was previously seen by the public. Their findings included: a videotape recorded in Sydney after the conversion but before the satellite transmission around the world; videotape from CBS News archives (direct from NASA, without commentary); and kinescopes at Johnson Space Center. At the news conference, it was mentioned that Lowry Digital would complete enhancing and restoring the tapes. Mike Inchalik, president of Lowry Digital, mentioned that they would only restore the video and not remove defects (such as reflections that looked like flag poles) that their software could remove. A few short clips were shown at the news conference, showing their improved quality. NASA released some partially restored samples on their website after the news conference. The full restoration of the footage, about three hours long, was completed in December 2009.\n\nSome other footage from Australian ground station feeds showing SSTV video of Armstrong's descent and first steps surfaced through John Sarkissian's efforts. Highlights of this fully enhanced video were shown to the public for the first time at the Australian Geographic Society Awards on October 6, 2010, where Buzz Aldrin was the guest of honor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5190016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5190016", "title": "Arts-based training", "text": "Arts-based training\n\nArts-based training is a form of employee training.\n\nIn recent years, there has been growth in the use of arts programs by corporations to meet a wide range of employee training and organizational development needs. In the United States alone, more than 400 of the Fortune 500 corporations and countless smaller firms employ arts-based learning in participatory workshops, skill-based training programs, hands-on consultancies with business units, individual and team coaching, case studies in-action, and lecture/demonstrations at leadership conferences. Companies use these various programs to foster creative thinking, promote the development of new leadership models, and strengthen employee skills in critical areas such as collaboration, conflict resolution, change management, presentation/public performance, and intercultural communication. This represents a dramatic shift in the boundaries that traditionally defined experiences relevant to the business world – a shift triggered by profound technological and social changes that have transformed the culture of business over the past decade.\n\nArts-based training can be defined as employee or staff development training (such as team building, communication/listening skills) which is delivered using the arts (music, visual art, drama etc.). It is used in many sectors in business from solicitors and law firms, to local councils and community-based organisations. In the United Kingdom it began to be used in the 1990s, primarily in London, and has now spread through the country. In the United States, arts organizations like Orpheus Chamber Orchestra and Second City Theatre, along with individual practitioners such as visual artist Todd Siler and jazz musician Michael Gold pioneered this field at about the same time. \"Orchestrating Collaboration at Work\" by Arthur Van Gundy and Linda Naiman, published in 2003 was one of the first books published for practitioners in the field. In recent years, organisations all over the world have begun to adopt arts based learning.\n\nLotte Darsø, author of \"Artful Creation: Learning-Tales of Arts-in-Business\" was the first to map the interplay between arts and business in Europe and North America. The key questions asked in her research were: \"In what ways can business learn from artists,\" \"What can be learned?,\" and \"What kind of learning takes place?\" Darsø proposes two approaches for Arts-in-Business: the Arts applied as an instrument for teambuilding, communication training, leadership development, problem-solving and innovation; and the Arts integrated as a strategic process of organisational transformation. Steven Taylor and Donna Ladkin offered a model of four different processes, skills transfer, projective techniques, illustration of essence, and making, used in arts-based learning in 2009. Schuima's 2012 book, \"The Value of Arts for Business\" provides a comprehensive review of the use of arts in business. \n\nTerry McGraw, chairman and CEO of The McGraw Hill Companies, characterizes creativity as a \"business imperative\", and puts his companies’ successful experiences with arts-based learning in a broad strategic context of \"surfacing creativity\" through engagement with the arts.\n\nCreativity is essential because it is at the heart of innovation, and innovation is a growth driver and, therefore, a business imperative. That is why, for several years, The McGraw-Hill companies has been using arts-based learning as a training tool in several key leadership initiatives...the arts have served as a complementary vehicle to more traditional learning approaches. They have helped to change attitudes by letting employees confront their assumptions in a nontraditional and non-intimidating environment...The results of using arts-based learning and training have been very positive for The McGraw-Hill Companies…Arts-based training is part of an overall strategy and commitment of the corporation to help 'surface' creativity \n\nKeith Weed, Chairman, Lever Fabergé sees employee involvement as a key part of developing and sustaining an innovative and creative business. Catalyst, their internal arts and creativity program \"brings artists and arts organisations into the business to motivate, inspire, challenge and unlock the potential of our staff, on both a professional and personal level. Artists and arts organisations come into the workplace to tackle specific business issues, from creative thinking to leadership styles and writing skills.\"\n\nIn reviewing \"The Art of Business: Make All Your Work a Work of Art\" (Davis, 2005) Tom Peters commented:\nThe authors persuasively argue that we are entering an economy which will value—insist upon!—a new way of looking at value creation. They call it moving from an emphasis on \"economic flow\" (input-output) to \"artistic flow.\" The altered nature of enterprise, the \"four elements\" of new business thinking: \"See yourself as an artist.\" \"See your work as a work of art.\" \"See your customers as an audience.\" \"See your competition as teachers.\"\nProfessor P Vijayakumar, Chairperson,Centre for Social and Organisational Leadership (C SOL) at Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai,India uses art as a teaching tool extensively in the Organisation Development and Change course for masters students states \"Art facilitates reflection. Reflective practice needs to be an integral part of any management education\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8007233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8007233", "title": "Bachelor of Human Kinetics", "text": "Bachelor of Human Kinetics\n\nA Bachelor of Human Kinetics (BHk or BHKin) or Bachelor of Science in Human Kinetics (BScHK) is a four-year academic degree awarded by a university upon the completion of a program of study of Human kinetics. Specializations within this degree can include: Athletic Therapy, Kinesiology, Physical Education, Recreation, and Sport management.\n"}
{"id": "35353894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35353894", "title": "Beyond the Witch Trials", "text": "Beyond the Witch Trials\n\nBeyond the Witch Trials: Witchcraft and Magic in Enlightenment Europe is an academic anthology edited by the historians Owen Davies and Willem de Blécourt. It was first published by Manchester University Press in 2004. Containing ten separate papers by different academics active in the field, the book dealt with the continued practice of magic and the belief in witchcraft in Europe following the end of the Witch trials in the Early Modern period.\n\nThe same year, Manchester University Press would bring out a companion anthology, also edited by Davies and Blécourt. Entitled \"Witchcraft Continued: Popular Magic in Modern Europe\", it dealt with the period following the Enlightenment.\n\nBrian Hoggard, an independent researcher from Worcester, England, authored a paper looking at the subject of Enlightenment-era popular magic from an archaeological perspective. Noting that the only published book dealing with the archaeology of British folk magic was Ralph Merrifield's \"The Archaeology of Ritual and Magic\" (1987), he argues that archaeology can provide scholars with evidence of popular magical traditions that were not recorded in the literate sources of the period.\n"}
{"id": "76749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76749", "title": "Character (arts)", "text": "Character (arts)\n\nA character (sometimes known as a fictional character) is a person or other being in a narrative (such as a novel, play, television series, film, or video game). The character may be entirely fictional or based on a real-life person, in which case the distinction of a \"fictional\" versus \"real\" character may be made. Derived from the ancient Greek word χαρακτήρ, the English word dates from the Restoration, although it became widely used after its appearance in \"Tom Jones\" in 1749. From this, the sense of \"a part played by an actor\" developed. Character, particularly when enacted by an actor in the theatre or cinema, involves \"the illusion of being a human person\". In literature, characters guide readers through their stories, helping them to understand plots and ponder themes. Since the end of the 18th century, the phrase \"in character\" has been used to describe an effective impersonation by an actor. Since the 19th century, the art of creating characters, as practiced by actors or writers, has been called characterisation.\n\nA character who stands as a representative of a particular class or group of people is known as a type. Types include both stock characters and those that are more fully individualised. The characters in Henrik Ibsen's \"Hedda Gabler\" (1891) and August Strindberg's \"Miss Julie\" (1888), for example, are representative of specific positions in the social relations of class and gender, such that the conflicts between the characters reveal ideological conflicts.\n\nThe study of a character requires an analysis of its relations with all of the other characters in the work. The individual status of a character is defined through the network of oppositions (proairetic, pragmatic, linguistic, proxemic) that it forms with the other characters. The relation between characters and the action of the story shifts historically, often miming shifts in society and its ideas about human individuality, self-determination, and the social order.\n\nIn fiction writing, authors create dynamic characters by many methods. Sometimes characters are conjured up from imagination; in other instances, they are created by amplifying the character trait of a real person into a new fictional creation, or are created from scratch as a matter of expediency.\n\nIn his book \"Aspects of the Novel\", E. M. Forster defined two basic types of characters, their qualities, functions, and importance for the development of the novel: flat characters and round characters. Flat characters are two-dimensional, in that they are relatively uncomplicated. By contrast, round characters are complex figures with many different characteristics, that undergo development, sometimes sufficiently to surprise the reader.\n\nMary Sues are characters mainly appearing in fan fiction. They are virtually devoid of flaws, and are therefore considered flat characters.\n\nDynamic characters are those that change over the course of the story, while static characters remain the same throughout. An example of a popular static character in literature is Sherlock Holmes; an example of a dynamic character in literature is Ebenezer Scrooge.\n\nIn television, a regular, main or ongoing character is a character who appears in all or a majority of episodes, or in a significant chain of episodes of the series. Regular characters may be both core and secondary ones. \n\nA recurring character often and frequently appears from time to time during the series' run. Recurring characters often play major roles in more than one episode, sometimes being the main focus.\n\nA guest character is one which acts only in a few episodes or scenes. Unlike regular characters, the guest ones do not need to be carefully incorporated into the storyline with all its ramifications: they create a piece of drama and then disappear without consequences to the narrative structure, unlike core characters, for which any significant conflict must be traced during a considerable time, which is often seen as an unjustified waste of resources. There may also be a continuing or recurring guest character. Sometimes a guest character may gain popularity and turn into a regular one.\n\nIn the earliest surviving work of dramatic theory, \"Poetics\" (c. 335 BCE), the Classical Greek philosopher Aristotle deduces that character (\"ethos\") is one of six qualitative parts of Athenian tragedy and one of the three objects that it represents (1450a12). He understands character not to denote a fictional person, but the quality of the person acting in the story and reacting to its situations (1450a5). He defines character as \"that which reveals decision, of whatever sort\" (1450b8). It is possible, therefore, to have stories that do not contain \"characters\" in Aristotle's sense of the word, since character necessarily involves making the ethical dispositions of those performing the action clear. If, in speeches, the speaker \"decides or avoids nothing at all\", then those speeches \"do not have character\" (1450b9—11). Aristotle argues for the primacy of plot (\"mythos\") over character (\"ethos\"). He writes:\nBut the most important of these is the structure of the incidents. For (i) tragedy is a representation not of human beings but of action and life. Happiness and unhappiness lie in action, and the end [of life] is a sort of action, not a quality; people are of a certain sort according to their characters, but happy or the opposite according to their actions. So [the actors] do not act in order to represent the characters, but they include the characters for the sake of their actions\" (1450a15-23).\nAristotle suggests that works were distinguished in the first instance according to the nature of the person who created them: \"the grander people represented fine actions, i.e. those of fine persons\" by producing \"hymns and praise-poems\", while \"ordinary people represented those of inferior ones\" by \"composing invectives\" (1448b20—1449a5). On this basis, a distinction between the individuals represented in tragedy and in comedy arose: tragedy, along with epic poetry, is \"a representation of serious people\" (1449b9—10), while comedy is \"a representation of people who are rather inferior\" (1449a32—33).\n\nIn the \"Tractatus coislinianus\" (which may or may not be by Aristotle), Ancient Greek comedy is defined as involving three types of characters: the buffoon (\"bômolochus\"), the ironist (\"eirôn\"), and the imposter or boaster (\"alazôn\"). All three are central to Aristophanes' \"old comedy\".\n\nBy the time the Roman comic playwright Plautus wrote his plays two centuries later, the use of characters to define dramatic genres was well established. His \"Amphitryon\" begins with a prologue in which Mercury claims that since the play contains kings and gods, it cannot be a comedy and must be a tragicomedy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2344016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2344016", "title": "Clothes horse", "text": "Clothes horse\n\nA clothes horse, sometimes called a clothes rack, drying horse, clothes maiden, garment donkey, drying rack, drying stand, Frostick, airer, or (Scots) winterdyke, is a frame upon which clothes are hung after washing, indoors or outdoors, to dry by evaporation. The frame is usually made of wood, metal or plastic.\n\nThere are many types of drying racks, including large, stationary outdoor racks, smaller, folding portable racks, and wall-mounted drying racks. A drying rack is similar in usage and function to a clothes line, and used as an alternative to the powered clothes dryer.\n\nA pulley clothes airer can be loaded and unloaded at a convenient height, and hoisted out of the way to ceiling height while the clothes dry. The racks are also used in kitchens, to hang utensils out of the way.\n\nA pulley clothes airer is sometimes also described as \"Victorian\", \"Edwardian\", or \"Lancashire\" and then comprises two iron frames positioned as far apart as desired to provide a suitable length, with wooden laths, typically four or six, passed through holes in them. The frames are suspended from the ceiling by a system of rope and pulleys. The result is a hoistable rack with several parallel bars on which clothes can be draped out of the way, or hung, extending further down, with clothes hangers. \n\nA modern development uses a wooden frame with seven to eleven continuous clothes lines which increase the capacity of the clothes horse. The frame uses a clam cleat to tighten the clothes lines and hangs on four ropes. This increases the necessary installation effort, but also improves safety by increasing redundancy of the suspension. It uses a pulley system (block and tackle) which reduces the required force to lift the loaded frame. \n\nUsed figuratively, the single-word term \"clotheshorse\" describes men and women who are passionate about clothing and always appear in public dressed in the latest styles. From 1850 the term referred to a male fop or female quaintrelle, a person whose main function is, or appears to be, to wear or show off clothes.\n\nIn this context, the term is similar to \"fashion plate,\" which originally referred to a lithograph illustration of fashionable clothing in a book or magazine.\n"}
{"id": "13675908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13675908", "title": "Combined Services Entertainment", "text": "Combined Services Entertainment\n\nThe Combined Services Entertainment (CSE) is the live entertainment arm of the Services Sound and Vision Corporation (SSVC), a registered British charity. It is the official provider of live entertainment to the British Armed Forces. CSE routinely sends tours of entertainment to Afghanistan, Cyprus, Oman, the Falkland Islands and to Royal Navy ships deployed worldwide.\n\nThe CSE is the successor to the Entertainments National Service Association (ENSA). Originally, it was called the Central Pool of Artists. It emerged during and after the Second World War as the British Armed Forces' concert party.\n\nArtists who began their careers in the Central Pool of Artists, and later the CSE, included Benny Hill, Kenneth Williams, Spike Milligan, Stanley Baxter, Ken Platt and Peter Nichols. \n\nPeter Nichols later adapted his experiences into a stage play (and later film) called \"Privates on Parade\". This in turn inspired the long-running BBC TV comedy series \"It Ain't Half Hot Mum\".\n\nOver the past decade, James Fox has undertaken many CSE tours to entertain British troops on active service in Afghanistan, Bosnia, The Falkland Islands and Iraq. In recognition of this, he was twice invited to perform at the Royal Albert Hall before the Queen as part of the Festival of Remembrance. In 2004, he presented a film highlighting the work of CSE before his performance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3984121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3984121", "title": "Comics Salón", "text": "Comics Salón\n\nComics Salón is an international multigenre festival of Japanese culture, manga, anime, comics, games, sci-fi, fantasy and horror. It is held every year in Slovakia and is the largest convention of its kind in the country. \n\nIt is the successor of the international festival IstroCon, which focused on sci-fi, fantasy and horror films, and gaming, and which ran from 1999 to 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "5427909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5427909", "title": "Crop Over", "text": "Crop Over\n\nCrop Over (formerly called \"Harvest Home\") is a traditional harvest festival which began in Barbados, having had its early beginnings on the sugar cane plantations during slavery. The crop over tradition began in 1687, and featured singing, dancing and accompaniment by bottles filled with water, \"shak-shak\", banjo, triangle, fiddle, guitar, and bones. Other traditions included climbing a greased pole, feasting and drinking competitions. Originally a celebration signaling the end of the yearly sugar cane harvest, it has since evolved into Barbados' biggest national festival similar to Carnival in Brazil and Trinidad. With the harsh effects of World War II on Barbados, the festival was disbanded.\nIt was later revived in 1974 by local stakeholders including Julian Marryshow, Flora Spencer, Emile Straker, and Livvy Burrowes with the Barbados Tourist Board. With the gradual change, the general schematic of Crop Over began to closely mirror the Trinidad Carnival. Beginning in June, Crop Over runs until the first Monday in August when it culminates in the finale, The Grand Kadooment.\n\nFor the entire two months life for many islanders is one big party with a major feature of crop over being the calypso competition. Calypso music, originating in Trinidad, uses syncopated rhythm and topical lyrics and gives its exponents a medium in which to satirise local politics and comment on the issues of the day, while taking nothing away from the general bacchanal. Calypso tents, also originating in Trinidad, feature their cadre of calypsonians who perform biting social commentaries on the happenings of the past year, political exposés or rousing exhortations to \"wuk up\" or \"wine up\", \"jonesing\", \"roll de bumper\", guh down (pronounced \"dung\") and \"six-thirty\" dance. There are craft markets, food tents and stalls, street parties and cavalcades every week supplemented by daily events at Tim’s on the Highway, the new home of the Barbados Crop Over Festival.\n\nCompetition 'tents' ring with the fierce battle of calypsonians for the coveted Calypso Monarch Award. There are also the People's Monarch and Party Monarch competitions. The People's Monarch is a competition in which the public are given groups of songs; each group with two songs, and they vote until a winner is chosen. The Party Monarch competition, however, is chosen by a panel of judges and is based on presentation. Therefore, you may have the best song but not be able to make use of stage and props and not be crowned 'Party Monarch King/Queen'. The competition is held on the Ermy Bourne Highway, commonly known as East Coast. The air is redolent with the exotic smells of Barbadian cooking during the Bridgetown Market Street Fair. Rich with the spirit of local culture, the Cohobblopot Festival blends dance and drama and music with the crowning of the King and Queen of costume bands. Every evening the 'Pic-o-de-Crop' Show is performed when finally the King of Calypso is crowned. The climax of the festival is Kadooment Day celebrated with a national holiday when costume bands fill the streets with Barbadian music and fireworks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31312600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31312600", "title": "Crossed letter", "text": "Crossed letter\n\nA crossed letter is a manuscript letter which contains two separate sets of writing, one written over the other at right-angles. This was done during the early days of the postal system in the 19th century to save on expensive postage charges, as well as to save paper. This technique is also called cross-hatching or cross-writing.\n\nA cross letter is distinct from a palimpsest, as cross-hatched manuscripts were written this way at one sitting or for the same purpose (such as a diary), rather than being re-used later.\n"}
{"id": "148279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148279", "title": "Culture of Chile", "text": "Culture of Chile\n\nThe culture of Chile reflects the relatively homogeneous population as well as the geographic isolation of the country in relation to the rest of South America. Since colonial times, the Chilean culture has been a mix of Spanish colonial elements with indigenous (mostly Mapuche) culture.\n\nThe Huasos of Central Chile and their folk music and dance are central to Chilean folk culture. Even though the folk traditions the Central Chile are central to Chilean cultural and national identity, Chile is both geographically and culturally diverse with both the North and the South having their own folk music and dance due to different indigenous peoples and immigrant groups settling there. Additionally, while some regions of Chile have very strong indigenous heritage, such as Araucanía Region, Easter Island, and Arica y Parinacota Region, some regions lacks considerable indigenous communities and a few other regions have noteworthy non-Spanish European immigrant heritage.\n\nThe term \"Chilenidad\" describes the Chilean National identity.\n\nHernán Godoy describes the psychological characteristics of the Chilean, and hence part of the Chilean national identity, with following words: roto, madness, sober, serious, prudent, sense of humor, great fear to the ridicule, servile, cruel, and lack of foresight, among other qualities. Jorge Larraín criticized these older descriptions as \"overgeneralized abstractions\" impossible to apply to a whole nation.\n\nThe national dance is the cueca (short for \"Zamacueca\") and first appeared in 1824. Another form of traditional Chilean song, though not a dance, is the \"tonada\". Arising\nimported by the Spanish colonists, it is distinguished from the cueca by an intermediate melodic section and a more prominent melody. The cueca was promoted by the Pinochet regime in the 1970s and 1980s for political reasons to promote Chilean nationalism, cultural pride and conservative patriotic fervor.\n\nIn the period starting from 1930 to 1970 appears a rebirth in the interest and popularity in folk music in Chile carried out initially by groups such as Los Cuatro Huasos, who took folk songs from the Chilean country and arranged them vocally and with musical instruments. They gave several recitals in Chile, and in Latin America that contributed with its diffusion. Later appeared other groups such as Los de Ramon, Los Huasos Quincheros, Los Cuatro Cuartos, and others who continued with this diffusion. Also appeared several Chilean folk composers such as Raul de Ramon, Margot Loyola, Luis Aguirre Pinto, Violeta Parra, Víctor Jara, and others that carried out folk investigation and composed folk music that is still sung up to this day.\n\nIn the mid-1960s native musical forms were revitalized by the Parra family with the Nueva Canción Chilena, which became associated with political activism and reformers like Chilean socialist Salvador Allende and his Popular Unity government. Violeta Parra, Víctor Jara, Los Jaivas, Inti-Illimani, Illapu and Quilapayún perform of this music. During the military rule in the 1970s, all forms of public expression contrary to the junta were repressed, and protest songs, which were played and circulated in a clandestine manner. In the late 1980s and after the return of democracy in the 1990s, new musical bands like La Ley, Los Tres and Los Prisioneros, began to appear, and the rise of heavy metal and alternative rock there. Even 1970s Chilean rock bands like the Los Ángeles Negros regained popularity across Latin America.\n\nChile's most famous contributions to literature have come from Nobel Prize poets Pablo Neruda and Gabriela Mistral, whose homes and birthplaces are now museums that attract literary pilgrims to Chile. The majority of Neruda's poetry, as individual books or collections of selected poems, as well as his memoirs, are widely available in English, however Mistral's works are harder to find, though collected editions are available.\n\nContemporary Chilean authors have earned an international reputation in the literary world. The most famous is novelist Isabel Allende, whose \"House of the Spirits\", \"Of Love and Shadows\", and \"Eva Luna\" have all been international bestsellers. She is the niece of president Salvador Allende.\n\nThe increasingly popular Luis Sepúlveda has written stylish short novels like \"The Old Man Who Read Love Stories\", and combines travel writing with imaginative fiction in Full Circle: a South American Journey.\n\nJosé Donoso's novel \"Curfew\" recalls the latter days of the recent military dictatorship, while Antonio Skármeta's novel \"Burning Patience\" (drawing on Neruda's life as a Chilean icon) was the inspiration for the Oscar-winning Italian film, Il Postino (The Postman).\n\nEstablished in 1849 in the University of Chile, the Chilean Academy of Painting has helped foster fine painting and inspire young artists. Roberto Matta, a 20th-century painter, is a world known artist who used abstract and surrealist technique in his work. Carlos Sotomayor (1911–1988) is considered one of the main exponents of cubism from South America. Camilo Mori (1896–1973) was the founder of the Group Montparnasse. Claudio Bravo (1936–2011) was a hyperrealist who lived and worked in Morocco since 1972.\n\nSculpture has also been prominent in Chile's culture. In the 19th century, sculptor Rebeca Matte (1875–1929) was the first Chilean woman to embrace the art. She was commissioned to produce a piece by the government of Chile as a gift to the government of Brazil which she called \"Icarus and Daedalus\" (United in Glory and Peace). In 1930, her husband donated a bronze copy to the Museum of Fine Arts in Santiago which is recognized as a leading masterpiece. Matte also created a battle monument as a tribute to the heroes of Concepción. In the 20th century, Marta Colvin (1907–1995) gained international status by exhibiting her work in cities around the world\n\nChilean cuisine uses a variety of products due to Chile's location and long coastline. The cuisine arose from the fusion of traditional indigenous ingredients with Spanish culture and traditions. Further European immigration also brought various styles and traditions in cooking were heavily influenced by the Italians and the Germans. In the 20th century, French cuisine marked an important turning point influencing culinary methods and creating a type of Criollo style that has been implemented now in Chilean cooking. British cooking influences include the \"onces\" or tea breaks usually taken in the afternoon among Chileans of all classes and backgrounds. Many Chilean recipes are enhanced and accompanied by wine and Chilean \"pisco\", a type of grape brandy produced in Chile, Pisco is also consumed in neighbouring Peru. Throughout Chile each region spanning from north to south contain a variety of culinary recipes special to each location.\n\n\n\n\nDomestic film production in Chile is still small but dynamic, it has been steadily growing since 1990 and the country now produces about 20 motion pictures annually. The most important filmmakers include Raúl Ruiz (\"Palomita Blanca\"), Miguel Littín (\"El chacal de Nahueltoro\"), Silvio Caiozzi (\"Julio comienza en julio\"), and Andrés Wood (\"Machuca\"). Other entertainment includes radio and television with TVN (Television Nacional de Chile) owned but not paid by the government but funding comes from commercial sponsors by private companies and media productions.\n\nFootball is the most popular sport in Chile, and practiced by Chileans from all economic backgrounds, it is the one sport that appeals to both young and old that is the most accessible. The Federación de Fútbol de Chile is the governing body of \"fútbol\" in Chile. Practices such as \"baby fútbol\", which is a street level scrimmage match, is played on areas made of concrete. Located throughout Chile are football stadiums such as Estadio Nacional de Chile located in Santiago, and where the final of the 1962 FIFA World Cup was held. Chile was banned in FIFA participation in the early 1990s due to a faked player injury on the field during a 1989 playoff game and could not appear in the 1990 and 1994 FIFA World Cup events as a result.\n\nChile practices a host of sporting events, and because of its geographical location that is situated between the Andes Mountains and the Pacific Ocean, skiing and snowboarding are done in between those two locations. With more than of mountains, Chile is known internationally as one of the world's best skiing destinations and the best in South America. This is a very popular sport in Chile among the wealthier classes (considering that this is an expensive sport in this country). This recognition is based on the excellent quality of the slopes, a beautiful landscape, accessibility and proximity to urban centers. Santiago de Chile is interested in hosting the Winter Olympics in the future, destined to be the second site in the southern hemisphere.\n\nThe main ski centers are located in Central Chile right in the middle of the Andes, at heights that vary from up to above sea level. These centers are the ones with the biggest skiing surfaces as well as the best supporting infrastructure.\n\nThe centers of Southern Chile are located at lower altitudes and most of them are on volcano slopes. The scenery is notable, including scenic forests and panoramic views.\n\nChile is a great surfing destination, and from the Northern region to the Central region there are many beaches with the right conditions for the sport. It is possible to surf almost all year round except for the middle of the winter (July and August) when weather conditions are non-conducive to surfing. The water temperature fluctuates between 10 °C to 20 °C (50° and 68 °F).\n\nIn northern Chile, the waves are smaller, but very forceful, and between Arica and Iquique, \"tubes\" are common. The temperature of the water fluctuates between 15 °C to 20 °C (59° and 68 °F). Due to the difficult conditions of the Atacama Desert, there are many unexplored, quiet beaches in that area. In the Central Region, the water is a little bit colder, and there are steeper shores and bigger waves.\n\nIn addition to football (soccer), basketball is particularly popular in southern Chile, where it as an indoor sport can be played all year round despite Southern Chile's cold and rainy winters. The \"NCBAOC\" is the official league. It stands for the National Chile Basketball Association of Chile.\n\nRodeo is the second most popular sport in Chile. It was declared the national sport in 1962. It has since thrived, especially in the more rural areas of the country. Chilean rodeo is different from the rodeo found in North America. In Chilean rodeo, a team (called a \"collera\") consisting of two riders (called Huasos) and two horses rides laps around an arena trying to stop a calf, pinning him against massive cushions. Points are earned for every time the steer is properly driven around the corral, with deductions for faults. Rodeos are conducted in a crescent-shaped corral called a medialuna.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2859896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2859896", "title": "Democratic education", "text": "Democratic education\n\nDemocratic education is an educational ideal in which democracy is both a goal and a method of instruction. It brings democratic values to education and can include self-determination within a community of equals, as well as such values as justice, respect and trust. Democratic education is often specifically emancipatory, with the students' voices being equal to the teacher's.\n\nThe history of democratic education spans from at least the 1600s. While it is associated with a number of individuals, there has been no central figure, establishment, or nation that advocated democratic education.\n\nIn 1693, John Locke published \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\". In describing the teaching of children, he declares,\n\nNone of the things they are to learn, should ever be made a burthen to them, or impos'd on them as a task. Whatever is so propos'd, presently becomes irksome; the mind takes an aversion to it, though before it were a thing of delight or indifferency. Let a child but be order'd to whip his top at a certain time every day, whether he has or has not a mind to it; let this be but requir'd of him as a duty, wherein he must spend so many hours morning and afternoon, and see whether he will not soon be weary of any play at this rate.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau’s book of advice on education, \"Émile\", was first published in 1762. Émile, the imaginary pupil he uses for illustration, was only to learn what he could appreciate as useful. He was to enjoy his lessons, and learn to rely on his own judgement and experience. “The tutor must not lay down precepts, he must let them be discovered,” wrote Rousseau, and urged him not make Émile learn science, but let him discover it. He also said that we should not substitute books for personal experience because this does not teach us to reason; it teaches us to use other people’s reasoning; it teaches us to believe a great deal but never to know anything.\n\nWhile Locke and Rousseau were concerned only with the education of the children of the wealthy, in the 19th century Leo Tolstoy set up a school for peasant children. This was on his own estate at Yasnaya Polyana, Russia, in the late 19th century. He tells us that the school evolved freely from principles introduced by teachers and pupils; that in spite of the preponderating influence of the teacher, the pupil had always had the right not to come to school, or, having come, not to listen to the teacher, and that the teacher had the right not to admit a pupil, and was able to use all the influence he could muster to win over the community, where the children were always in the majority.\n\nIn 1912, Janusz Korczak founded Dom Sierot, the Jewish orphanage in Warsaw, which was run on democratic lines until 1940, when he accompanied all his charges to the gas-chambers of the Treblinka extermination camp.\n\nThe oldest democratic school that still exists is Summerhill, in Suffolk, England, founded in 1921. It features voluntary class attendance and a School Meeting with broad powers.\n\nSudbury Valley School, founded in Framingham, Massachusetts in 1968, has full democratic governance: The School Meeting manages all aspects of the school, including staff hiring and facilities. A \"Sudbury school\" is now a general class of school modeled after this original.\n\nThe term Democratic Education originates from The Hadera democratic school, the first school in the world called a democratic school.\nIt was founded in Israel in 1987 by Yaacov Hecht. It is a public school.\nThe term has been embraced by alternative/open schools all over the world, predominantly following the foundation of IDEC – the International Democratic Education Conference, which was first convened at the democratic school in Hadera.\n\nIn the 1960s, hundreds of \"free schools\" opened, many based on Summerhill. However A.S. Neill, the founder of Summerhill, distanced himself from American Summerhill schools for not successfully implementing the philosophy of \"Freedom, not license.\"\nFree school movement (including many schools based on Summerhill) became a broad movement in the 1960s and 1970s, but was largely renounced by the 1980s. Progressive education and Dewey’s ideals did influence them, but only indirectly for the most part.\n\nNetworks supporting democratic education include:\n\nIDEC 2005 named two core beliefs: self-determination and democratic governance. EUDEC has both of these beliefs, and mutual respect is also in their belief statement. IDEN supports schools that self-identify as democratic.\n\nDemocratic education, same as a Democracy or a democratic government, comes in many different forms. These are some of the areas in which democratic schools differ.\n\nDemocratic schools are characterized by involving students in the decision-making process that affects what and how they learn. Democratic schools have no mandatory curriculum, considering forced learning to be undemocratic. Some democratic schools officially offer voluntary courses, and many help interested students to prepare for national examinations so they gain qualifications for further study or future employment. Some democratic schools have no official offering of courses, although courses can be offered or requested by school members.\n\nDemocratic schools often have meetings open to all students and staff, where everyone present has a voice and sometimes an equal vote. Some include parents. These school meetings can cover anything from small matters to the appointment or dismissal of staff and the creation or annulment of rules, or to general expenditure and the structure of the school day. At some schools all students are expected to attend these meetings, at others they are voluntary. The main school meeting may also set up sub-committees to deal with particular issues, such as conflict resolution.\n\nWithin the purview of democratic values, there is wide scope for how conflicts are resolved. There may be a formal system, with due process and the rule of law. There may be rules but no punishments. Other possibilities include, but are not limited to, a consensus process, mediation, and informal dialogue.\n\nFinance: Some democratic learning environments are parent-funded, some charity-funded. Schools may have a sliding scale based on family income. Publicly funded democratic schools exist in Canada and Israel.\n\nSize: Democratic schools vary in size from a few students to a few hundred. Even an individual unschooler can be described as learning democratically, if they are treated with democratic values.\n\nAge range: Age mixing is a deliberate policy in some democratic schools. It may include very young children, even babies. Some democratic schools only enroll older students.\n\nLocation: Democratic education is not limited to any particular setting. Settings for democratic learning communities include in an office building, on city streets, and in a rural area.\n\nWhile types of democratic education are as numerous as types of democracy, a general definition of democratic education is \"an education that democratizes learning itself.\" The goals of democratic education vary according to the participants, the location, and access to resources.\n\nThere is no unified body of literature, spanning multiple disciplines, on democratic education. However, there are theories of democratic education from the following perspectives:\n\nDuring the practice theory movement, there was renewed interest in child development. Jean Piaget's theory of universal steps in comprehension and general patterns in the acquisition of knowledge was challenged by experiences at democratic schools. \"No two kids ever take the same path. Few are remotely similar. Each child is so unique, so exceptional.\"\n\nJean Lave was one of the first and most prominent social anthropologists to discuss cognition within the context of cultural settings presenting a firm argument against the functionalist psychology that many educationalists refer to implicitly.\nFor Lave, learning is a process ungone by an actor within a specific context. The skills or knowledge learned in one process are not generalizable nor reliably transferred to other areas of human action. Her primary focus was on mathematics in context and mathematics education.\n\nThe broader implications reached by Lave and others who specialize in situated learning are that beyond the argument that certain knowledge is necessary to be a member of society (a Durkheimian argument), knowledge learned in the context of a school is not reliably transferable to other contexts of practice.\n\nJohn Locke argues that children are capable of reasoning at a young age: “It will perhaps be wonder’d, that I mention reasoning with children; and yet I cannot but think that the true way of dealing with them. They understand it as early as they do language; and, if I misobserve not, they love to be treated as rational creatures, sooner than is imagin’d,” Rousseau disagreed: “Use force with children and reasoning with men.\"\n\nHumans are innately curious, and democratic education supports the belief that the drive to learn is sufficiently strong to motivate children to become effective adults.\n\nThe human brain is not fully developed until adulthood. A disadvantage of teenagers being responsible for their own education is that \"young brains have both fast-growing synapses and sections that remain unconnected. This leaves teens easily influenced by their environment and more prone to impulsive behavior\".\n\nDemocracy can be valued on ethical grounds.\n\nDemocratic education is consistent with the cultural theory that \"learning in school must be continuous with life outside of school\" and that children should become active participants in the control and organization of their community.\n\nResearch on hunter-gatherer societies indicates that free play and exploration were effective transmitters of the societies' culture to children.\n\nAccording to George Dennison, democratic environments are social regulators: Our desire to cultivate friendships, engender respect, and maintain what George Dennison terms ‘natural authority’ encourages us to act in socially acceptable ways (i.e. culturally informed practices of fairness, honesty, congeniality, etc.).\n\nChildren are influenced by many curricula beyond the school curriculum: TV curricula, advertisers' curricula, curricula of religious communities, Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts, encyclopedias etc. and therefore \"one of the most significant tasks any school can undertake is to try to develop in youngsters an awareness of these other curricula and an ability to criticize them…it is utter nonsense to think that by turning children loose in an unplanned and unstructured environment they can be freed in any significant way. Rather, they are thereby abandoned to the blind forces of the hucksters, whose primary concern is neither the children, nor the truth, nor the decent future of ... society.\"\n\nÉmile Durkheim argues that the transition from primitive to modern societies occurred in part as elders made a conscious decision to transmit what were deemed the most essential elements of their culture to the following generations. He concludes that modern societies are so complex—much more complex than primitive hunter-gatherer societies—and the roles that individuals must fill in society are so varied, that formal mass-education is necessary to instill social solidarity and what he terms ‘secular morality’.\n\nThere are a variety of political components to democratic education. One author identifies those elements as inclusivity and rights, equal participation in decision-making, and equal encouragement for success. The Institute for Democratic Education's principles of democratic education identifies several political principles,\n\nThe type of political socialization that takes place in democratic schools is strongly related to deliberative democracy theory. Claus Offe and Ulrich Preuss, two theorists of the political culture of deliberative democracies argue that in its cultural production deliberative democracy requires “an open-ended and continuous learning process in which the roles of both ‘teacher’ and ‘curriculum’ are missing. In other words, what is to be learned is a matter that we must settle in the process of learning itself.\"\n\nThe political culture of a deliberative democracy and its institutions, they argue, would facilitate more “dialogical forms of making one’s voice heard” which would “be achieved within a framework of liberty, within which paternalism is replaced by autonomously adopted self-paternalism, and technocratic elitism by the competent and self-conscious judgment of citizens.\"\n\nAs a curricular, administrative and social operation within schools, democratic education is essentially concerned with equipping people to make \"real choices about fundamental aspects of their lives\" and happens \"within\" and \"for\" democracy. It can be \"a process where teachers and students work collaboratively to reconstruct curriculum to include everyone.\" In at least one conception, democratic education teaches students \"to participate in consciously reproducing their society, and conscious social reproduction.\" This role necessitates democratic education happening in a variety of settings and being taught by a variety of people, including \"parents, teachers, public officials, and ordinary citizens.\" Because of this \"democratic education begins not only with children who are to be taught but also with citizens who are to be their teachers.\"\n\nThe \"strongest, political rationale\" for democratic education is that it teaches \"the virtues of democratic deliberation for the sake of future citizenship.\" This type of education is often alluded to in the deliberative democracy literature as fulfilling the necessary and fundamental social and institutional changes necessary to develop a democracy that involves intensive participation in group decision making, negotiation, and social life of consequence.\n\nThe concept of the hidden curriculum includes the belief that anything taught in an authoritarian setting is implicitly teaching authoritarianism. Thus civic education, if taught in a compulsory setting, undermines its own lessons in democracy. A common belief in democratic schools is that democracy must be experienced to be learned. This argument conforms to the cognition-in-context research by Lave.\n\nAnother common belief, which supports the practice of compulsory classes in civic education, is that passing on democratic values requires an imposed structure.\n\nArguments about how to transmit democracy, and how much and how early to treat children democratically, are made in various literatures concerning student voice, youth participation and other elements of youth empowerment.\n\nStandard progressive visions of education as collaboration tend to downplay the workings of power in society. If learners are to \"develop a democracy,\" some scholars have argued, they must be provided the tools for transforming the non-democratic aspects of a society. Democracy in this sense involves not just \"participation in decision making,\" a vision ascribed especially to Dewey, but the ability to confront power with solidarity.\n\nCore features of democratic education align with the emerging consensus on 21st century business and management priorities. Such features include increased collaboration, decentralized organization, and radical creativity.\n\nWhile democratic schools don't have an official curriculum, what each student actually does might be considered their own curriculum. Dewey was an early advocate of inquiry education, in which student questions and interests shaped curriculum, a sharp contrast to the \"factory model\" that began to predominate education during the 20th century as standardization became a guiding principle of many educational practices. Although there was a resurgence of inquiry education in the 1980s and 1990s the standards movement of the 21st century and the attendant school reform movement have squashed most attempts at authentic inquiry-oriented democratic education practices. The standards movement has reified standardized tests in literacy and writing, neglecting science inquiry, the arts, and critical literacy.\n\nDemocratic schools may not consider only reading, writing and arithmetic to be the real basics for being a successful adult. A.S. Neill said \"To hell with arithmetic.\" Nonetheless, there is a common belief that people will eventually learn \"the basics\" when they develop internal motivation. Furthermore, an educator implementing inquiry projects will look at the \"next steps\" in a student's learning and incorporate basic subject matter as needed. This is easier to accomplish in elementary school settings than in secondary school settings, as elementary teachers typically teach all subjects and have large blocks of time that allow for in-depth projects that integrate curriculum from different knowledge domains.\n\nAllen Koshewa conducted research that highlighted the tensions between democratic education and the role of teacher control, showing that children in a fifth grade classroom tried to usurp democratic practices by using undue influence to sway others, much as representative democracies often fail to focus on the common good or protect minority interests. He found that class meetings, service education, saturation in the arts, and an emphasis on interpersonal caring helped overcome some of these challenges. Despite the challenges of inquiry education, classrooms that allow students to make choices about curriculum propel students to not only learn about democracy but also to experience it.\n\nA striking feature of democratic schools is the ubiquity of play. Students of all ages — but especially the younger ones — often spend most of their time either in free play, or playing games (electronic or otherwise). All attempts to limit, control or direct play must be democratically approved before being implemented. Play is seen as activity every bit as worthy as academic pursuits, often even more valuable. Play is considered essential for learning, particularly in fostering creativity.\n\nIt was Invented by Liam Doherty. Interest in learning to read happens at a wide variety of ages. Progressive educators emphasise students' choice in reading selections, as well as topics for writing. In addition, Stephen Krashen and other proponents of democratic education emphasise the role of libraries in promoting democratic education. Others, such as children's author Judy Blume, have spoken out against censorship as antagonistic to democratic education, while the school reform movement, which gained traction under the federal initiative 'No Child Left Behind' and later under 'Race to the Top' and the Common Core Standards movement, emphasise strict control over curriculum.\n\nDemocracy must be experienced to be learned.\n\nAs English aristocracy was giving way to democracy, Matthew Arnold investigated popular education in France and other countries to determine what form of education suited a democratic age. Arnold wrote that \"the spirit of democracy\" is part of \"human nature itself\", which engages in \"the effort to affirm one's own essence...to develop one's own existence fully and freely.\"\n\nDuring the industrial age, John Dewey argued that children should not all be given the same pre-determined curriculum. In Democracy and Education he develops a philosophy of education based on democracy. He argues that while children should be active participants in the creation of their education, and while children must experience democracy to learn democracy, they need adult guidance to develop into responsible adults.\n\nAmy Gutmann argues in Democratic Education that in a democratic society, there is a role for everyone in the education of children. These roles are best agreed upon through deliberative democracy.\n\nThe journal Democracy and Education investigates \"the conceptual foundations, social policies, institutional structures, and teaching/learning practices associated with democratic education.\" By \"democratic education\" they mean \"educating youth...for active participation in a democratic society.\"\n\nYaacov Hecht claims that the Democratic Education, being an education that prepares for life in a democratic culture, it is the missing piece in the intricate puzzle which is the democratic state.\n\nIsrael's Institute for Democratic Education and Kibbutzim College in Tel Aviv collaborate to offer a Bachelor of Education (B. Ed.) degree with a Specialization Certificate in Democratic Education. Student teaching placements are in both regular schools and democratic schools.\n\nUnited Nations agreements both support and place restrictions on education options, including democratic education:\n\nArticle 26(3) of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that \"Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children.\" While this in itself may allow parents the right to choose democratic education, Articles 28 and 29 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child place requirements on educational programs: Primary education is compulsory, all aspects of each student must be developed to their full potential, and education must include the development of respect for things such as national values and the natural environment, in a spirit of friendship among all peoples.\n\nFurthermore, while Article 12(1) of the Convention mandates that children be able to have input on all matters that affect them, their input will have limited weight, \"due weight in accordance with the age and maturity of the child.\"\n\nIn 1999, Summerhill received a 'notice of complaint' over its policy of non-compulsory lessons, a procedure which would usually have led to closure; Summerhill contested the notice and went before a special educational tribunal. Summerhill was represented by a noted human rights lawyer, Geoffrey Robertson QC. The government's case soon collapsed, and a settlement was offered. This offer was discussed and agreed at a formal school meeting which had been hastily convened in the courtroom from a quorum of pupils and teachers who were present in court. The settlement guaranteed that future inspections of Summerhill would be consistent with Summerhill's educational philosophy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46926757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46926757", "title": "Der Fan", "text": "Der Fan\n\nDer Fan (\"The Fan\") is a 1982 West German horror film directed by Eckhart Schmidt. The film follows a disturbed teenage girl's obsessive love for a pop singer named R who, after meeting her, eventually reveals that he does not love her back, leading to disastrous consequences.\nAn uncut and restored version was released by Mondo Macabro on DVD and Blu-ray in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "351909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351909", "title": "Diegesis", "text": "Diegesis\n\nDiegesis (; from the Greek from , \"to narrate\") is a style of fiction storytelling that presents an interior view of a world in which:\n\nIn diegesis, the narrator \"tells\" the story. The narrator presents the actions (and sometimes thoughts) of the characters to the readers or audience. Diegetic elements are part of the fictional world (\"part of the story\"), as opposed to non-diegetic elements which are stylistic elements of how the narrator tells the story (\"part of the storytelling\").\n\n\"Diegesis\" (Greek διήγησις \"narration\") and \"mimesis\" (Greek μίμησις \"imitation\") have been contrasted since Plato's and Aristotle's times. \"Mimesis\" \"shows\" rather than \"tells\", by means of action that is enacted. \"Diegesis\" is the \"telling\" of a story by a narrator. The narrator may speak as a particular character, or may be the \"invisible narrator\", or even the \"all-knowing narrator\" who speaks from \"outside\" in the form of commenting on the action or the characters.\n\nIn Book III of his \"Republic\" (c. 373 BC), Plato examines the \"style\" of \"poetry\" (the term includes comedy, tragedy, epic and lyric poetry): All types narrate events, he argues, but by differing means. He distinguishes between narration or report (\"diegesis\") and imitation or representation (\"mimesis\"). Tragedy and comedy, he goes on to explain, are wholly imitative types; the dithyramb is wholly narrative; and their combination is found in epic poetry. When reporting or narrating, \"the poet is speaking in his own person; he never leads us to suppose that he is any one else\"; when imitating, the poet produces an \"assimilation of himself to another, either by the use of voice or gesture\". In dramatic texts, the poet never speaks directly; in narrative texts, the poet speaks as him or herself.\n\nIn his \"Poetics\", the ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle argues that kinds of \"poetry\" (the term includes drama, flute music, and lyre music for Aristotle) may be differentiated in three ways: according to their \"medium\", according to their \"objects\", and according to their \"mode\" or \"manner\" (section I); \"For the medium being the same, and the objects the same, the poet may imitate by narration—in which case he can either take another personality as Homer does, or speak in his own person, unchanged—or he may present all his characters as living and moving before us\" (section III).\n\nIn filmmaking the term is used to name the story depicted on screen, as opposed to the story in real time that the screen narrative is about. Diegesis may concern elements, such as characters, events, and things within the main or \"primary\" narrative. However, the author may include elements that are not intended for the primary narrative, such as stories within stories. Characters and events may be referred to elsewhere or in historical contexts and are therefore outside the main story; thus, they are presented in an \"extradiegetic\" situation.\n\nFor narratologists all parts of narratives—characters, narrators, existents, actors—are characterized in terms of diegesis. For definitions of diegesis, one should consult Aristotle's \"Poetics\"; Gerard Genette's \"Narrative Discourse: An Essay in Method\" (Cornell University Press, 1980); or (for a readable introduction) H. Porter Abbott's \"The Cambridge Introduction to Narrative\" (Cambridge University Press 2002). In literature, discussions of diegesis tend to concern discourse/sjužet (in Russian Formalism) (vs. story/fabula).\n\nDiegesis is multi-levelled in narrative fiction. Genette distinguishes between three \"diegetic levels\". The extradiegetic level (the level of the narrative's telling) is, according to Prince, \"external to (not part of) any diegesis.\" One might think of this as what we commonly understand to be the narrator's level, the level at which exists a narrator who is not part of the story being told. The diegetic level or intradiegetic level is understood as the level of the characters, their thoughts and actions. The metadiegetic level or hypodiegetic level is that part of a diegesis that is embedded in another one and is often understood as a story within a story, as when a diegetic narrator himself/herself tells a story.\n\nThe classical distinction between the diegetic mode and the mimetic mode relate to the difference between the \"epos\" (or epic poetry) and \"drama\". The \"epos\" relates stories by \"telling\" them through narration, while drama enacts stories through direct embodiment (\"showing\"). In terms of classical poetics, the cinema is an \"epic\" form that utilizes \"dramatic\" elements; this is determined by the technologies of \"the camera\" and \"editing\". Even in a spatially and temporally continuous scene (mimicking the theatrical situation, as it were), the camera \"chooses\" where to look for us. In a similar way, editing causes us to jump from one place (and/or time) to another, whether it be elsewhere in the room, or across town. This jump is a form of narration; it is as if a narrator whispers to us: \"meanwhile, on the other side of the forest\". It is for this reason that the \"story-world\" in cinema is referred to as \"diegetic\"; elements that belong to the film's narrative world are diegetic elements. This is why, in the cinema, we may refer to the film's \"diegetic world\".\n\n\"Diegetic\", in the cinema, typically refers to the internal world created by the story that the characters themselves experience and encounter: the narrative \"space\" that includes all the parts of the story, both those that are and those that are not actually shown on the screen (such as events that have led up to the present action; people who are being talked about; or events that are presumed to have happened elsewhere or at a different time).\n\nThus, elements of a film can be \"diegetic\" or \"non-diegetic\". These terms are most commonly used in reference to sound in a film, but can apply to other elements. For example, an insert shot that depicts something that is neither taking place in the world of the film, nor is seen, imagined, or thought by a character, is a non-diegetic insert. Titles, subtitles, and voice-over narration (with some exceptions) are also non-diegetic.\n\nIn video games \"diegesis\" comprises the narrative game world, its characters, objects and actions which can be classified as \"intra-diegetic\", by both being part of the narration and not breaking the fourth wall. Status icons, menu bars and other UI which are not part of the game world itself can be considered as \"extra-diegetic\"; a game character does not know about them even though for the player they may present crucial information. A noted example of a diegetic interface in video games is that of the \"Dead Space\" series, in which the player-character is equipped with an advanced survival suit that projects holographic images to the character within the game's rendering engine that also serve as the game's user-interface to the player to show weapon selection, inventory management, and special actions that can be taken.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28744675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28744675", "title": "Dissidia 012 Final Fantasy", "text": "Dissidia 012 Final Fantasy\n\nThe game initially focuses on the twelfth war between the gods Chaos and Cosmos who have summoned several warriors from parallel worlds to fight for them. Upon ending the twelfth cycle, the game remakes the thirteenth war from the original \"Dissidia Final Fantasy\" and adds multiple sidestories. Fights in \"Dissidia 012\" were given the ability to counteract enemies' strongest attacks by using assisting characters, while navigation is now done through a traditional-styled \"Final Fantasy\" world map.\n\nDevelopment of the game started in August 2009 with the Square staff wishing to improve the gameplay from the first game to provide players with more entertaining features as well as balance several parts. \"Dissidia 012\" has been well received, with publications calling it one of the best PlayStation Portable games.\n\nGameplay is largely reminiscent of \"Dissidia Final Fantasy\" along with a few changes. The game consists primarily of one-on-one battles, taking place on what is known as a battle map where the two characters duel. Players are able to perform two types of attacks: a Bravery attack and an HP attack. Both characters start with a set amount of Bravery points, the number of Bravery points being equivalent to the amount of damage dealt by an HP attack. Thus, the player must perform several Bravery attacks to steal Bravery points from the opponent so as to increase the power of their HP attack, as Bravery attacks do not cause any damage.\n\nThe mechanics of the battle system include \"EX Revenge\" and \"Assist.\" EX Mode functions exactly the same as the first game by collecting EX Cores around the battle map to fill up the EX gauge and transform the character into a more powerful state, which allows players to perform a powerful EX Burst attack should an HP attack land during EX Mode. The Assist system is a new element to the game which allows the player to summon an additional ally into battle to either assist in attacking the enemy or defend from an oncoming attack. It is performed using the Assist Gauge, which is built up by using Bravery Attacks. Both modes are supposed to balance each other, because when an EX Burst is executed, the opponent's Assist Gauge is reduced to zero.\n\nThe three main countering systems are Assist Breaks, EX Breaks and EX Revenge. An Assist Break is performed by attacking the opponent's Assist character while the player is in EX Mode, causing him/her to be unable to call out the Assist character for a brief period; this also passes the stage's Bravery points to the character. An EX Break is performed by stopping an opponent's EX Mode through the use of an Assist attack which forces the opponent out of EX Mode, additionally passing the stage's Bravery points to the player. Lastly, EX Revenge occurs when trying to activate EX Mode while being attacked. While in the first game it would simply halt the opponent's attack, it now slows down time allowing the player to pummel the opponent instead, though it sacrifices the player's ability to use an EX Burst as it uses up the entire EX Gauge.\n\nThe biggest addition is within the single-player story mode of the game, taking place on a traditional-styled \"Final Fantasy\" world map, with players being able to experience a story while exploring a world with scenarios and events taking place as the story progresses. Players traverse the 3D world map with parties consisting of up to five characters, with players being able to interact in conversations with the characters. When roaming the map, players will encounter enemies known as \"Manikins\"; when attacked by an enemy, players will be transported to a battle map where battles will take place. There are specially marked shops on the map. The story mode is also party based, similar to the story progression of \"Final Fantasy VI\". In certain scenarios, parties will be predetermined, but in most cases players are free to select their own party. Alongside the game's new story mode, the game also includes the first game's story, which has been remade with the 3D world map as well as additional elements added for the new storyline. Tetsuya Nomura, producer and character designer for the game, has said that both storylines played together would result in approximately 60 hours of gameplay.\n\nThe game's main story revolves around the twelfth cycle of the eternal conflict between the gods Cosmos and Chaos, who have both summoned several warriors from different worlds to fight for them in \"World B\", a mirror dimension to the realm of World A. It features the entire cast of the original \"Dissidia\" with new and tweaked abilities, and introduces nine new playable characters for a total of thirty-one. Six of the new characters are available from the start of the game: Lightning, a former soldier and the protagonist of \"Final Fantasy XIII\"; Vaan, a sky pirate and the protagonist of \"Final Fantasy XII\"; Laguna Loire, the man who appears in Squall's dreams and the secondary protagonist of \"Final Fantasy VIII\"; Yuna, Tidus's love interest and female protagonist of \"Final Fantasy X\"; Kain Highwind, Cecil Harvey's childhood friend and rival from \"Final Fantasy IV\"; and Tifa Lockhart, Cloud Strife's childhood friend from \"Final Fantasy VII\". The remaining three characters, which can be unlocked through various means of gameplay, are Prishe, a supporting character from \"Final Fantasy XI\"; Gilgamesh, a recurring villain from \"Final Fantasy V\"; and , an alternate form of Chaos. \"Final Fantasy VII\"s Aerith Gainsborough is available as an assist-only character (i.e. not fully playable in the game) through the purchase of \"Dissidia 012 Prologus Final Fantasy\" on the PlayStation Network.\n\nDuring the twelfth cycle, the war is turning in favor of Chaos. Therefore, Cosmos entrusts her warriors with the task of retrieving the crystals that will help them defeat Chaos. However, Cosmos does not foresee Chaos's forces employing an unworldly army of crystalline soldiers known as Manikins, which pose a threat due to their ability to negate the gods' power to revive the warriors after they are killed. Believing their defeat to be inevitable, Kain and the Warrior of Light defeat most of their own allies to stop them from fighting the Manikins and return in the upcoming cycle. Lightning opposes this plan and leads the other active warriors—Vaan, Yuna, Laguna, and Tifa—to stop the Manikins once and for all by sealing the portal from which they emerge, with Kain eventually joining them as well. Though they succeed, Cosmos is reduced to a weakened state after using much of her power to diminish the Manikin army when they attempt to kill her and the Warrior of Light, while Lightning and her group succumb to the Manikins' power and fade away.\n\nFrom there, the game retells the events of \"Dissidia Final Fantasy\" where returning warriors for Cosmos participate in the thirteenth cycle that ends the conflict between the gods. Once completing the thirteenth cycle, the player also has access to the third and final arc \"Confessions of the Creator\", in which Shinryu—a powerful entity that absorbs the warriors' memories and experiences following each cycle—traps Cosmos' comrade, Cid of the Lufaine, in a nightmare world where the cycles never end as punishment for saving Cosmos' warriors from the thirteenth cycle following Chaos' defeat. The player selects five characters to fight Feral Chaos, a stronger incarnation of Chaos, and save the imprisoned Cid the nightmare world.\n\nIn addition to the main story is a set of \"Reports\", most of which follow the other warriors who participate in the thirteenth cycle, explaining their roles before and during that cycle. Prominent characters in these reports include warriors of Cosmos—Terra, Cloud and Tidus—who fight for the side of Chaos during the twelfth cycle, and Chaos's warrior Jecht, who appears on the side of Cosmos, with the reports detailing how these characters came to switch sides. Furthermore, the Reports cover other events such as how the Warrior of Light enters the conflict and meets Cosmos's previous warriors Prishe and Shantotto, along with Gilgamesh's misadventures upon stumbling into World B.\n\nIdeas for a sequel to \"Dissidia Final Fantasy\" were already conceived shortly after its release in Japan with creative producer Tetsuya Nomura wishing to feature Kain Highwind on it. Development of the game started in August 2009 shortly before the release of \"Dissidia Final Fantasy Universal Tuning\", the international version from the prequel. Director Mitsunori Takahashi stated the team wanted the sequel to have more changes than just new characters. This resulted in changes to gameplay features and the inclusion of new ones. The Assist feature was made to add more entertainment to the fights, as well as to act as a counterbalance to the EX Mode that was the strongest area from the first game. This was done in response to feedback commenting that the EX Mode was too powerful in the original game. The world map was created in order to appeal more the RPG fans. Returning characters had their movesets modified to provide the player with new strategies when fighting. One of the most revised ones was Firion due to feedback from players. Since the original \"Dissidia\" had a concrete conclusion, the staff decided to make its story a prequel and encourage players to revisit \"Dissidia\" once concluding it.\n\nChoosing new characters proved difficult as the staff chose them based on their popularity and fighting styles. The amount of new characters was restricted due to memory limitations. Vaan's inclusion met several hardships since his Japanese voice actor, Kouhei Takeda, was busy at the time. They decided to replace Takeda with Kenshō Ono as a result of fan response. Battle system director Takeo Kujiraoka made contact with Hiroyuki Ito regarding the character's design and moves based on his \"Final Fantasy XII\" appearances, which was well received by Ito. While designed by Tetsuya Nomura, various of the new alternative outfits the characters were given were based on artworks by Yoshitaka Amano, another designer from the \"Final Fantasy\" series.\n\nThree other Square Enix games, \"Final Fantasy Trading Card Game\", \"Kingdom Hearts Birth by Sleep Final Mix\", and \"The 3rd Birthday\", give players access to downloadable content in the form of alternate outfits for Vaan, Cloud Strife, and Lightning, respectively. As of June 16, 2011, the PlayStation Network has featured downloadable content for \"Dissidia 012 Final Fantasy\", including character costumes, avatars, and BGM packs.\n\nThe music for \"Dissidia 012 Final Fantasy\" was composed by Takeharu Ishimoto and features multiple rearrangements from previous \"Final Fantasy\" themes by other composers. The American band Kidneythieves also sang the second part of the Feral Chaos' boss theme song, \"God in Fire.\" Ishimoto wrote the song and requested Kidneythieves' collaboration with them to which the band stated it was entertaining. On March 3, 2011, Square Enix released the \"Dissidia 012 Final Fantasy Original Soundtrack\" featuring a total of three discs with the first one having 44, the second one 20, and the third one seven.\n\nTrack list\n\nUpon its first week of release \"Dissidia 012\" sold 286,117 units in Japan, topping the Media Create's charts by replacing Phantasy Star Portable 2 Infinity, Although it managed first place, \"Dissidia 012\" performed far below its predecessor, The original sold close to 500,000 units in its first week in December 18, 2008. It has sold 465,198 units in Japan as of January 2012. It has received positive reception. \"Dissidia 012\" was scored a 38/40 by \"Famitsu\", composed of a 10, 9, 10, 9 score by the four reviewers, two points higher than the original. \"PSM3\" gave the game an 8.2, calling it an \"improvement on the original, with some great \"Final Fantasy\" fan service thrown in.\" IGN gave the game a 9.0 (one point higher than the original), praising the game's graphics and improved gameplay, but criticizing its story. \"Game Informer\" gave the game a 7, saying the game did not improve any of the battle system problems of the previous game, although the assist system was a good addition, saying it added an extra dimension to what was missing in the first game. \"GamesRadar+\" listed it as the ninth best PlayStation Portable game commenting on how it uses elements from famous RPGs, while IGN listed it third with comments aimed towards its gameplay.\n\n"}
{"id": "38175441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38175441", "title": "DreadOut", "text": "DreadOut\n\nDreadOut is an indie survival horror video game developed by Digital Happiness for Microsoft Windows, OS X and Linux. A port for PlayStation 4 was announced but never released. The story is about a group of high school students in Indonesia who come across an old abandoned town. There they are confronted with ghosts and paranormal activities, and one of the students, the protagonist Linda, begins to uncover the secrets of the town and its surrounding area. The game has been compared to the \"Fatal Frame\" series.\n\n\"DreadOut\" is a third-person horror game that uses mechanics similar to those found in the \"Fatal Frame\" series. The player uses modern gadgets, such as her smartphone and a digital camera, to interact with (or fend off) various kinds of Indonesian mythical ghosts, and to help her solve various puzzles. When Linda dies in the game, she awakens in Limbo, depicted as darkness surrounded by candles with a bright light in the distance. By running towards the light, Linda will come back to life. However, subsequent deaths will push the light further and further away from Linda, unless she manages to find three mystical items to keep the light closer to her.\n\nThe game features both third and first-person control schemes, with the player navigating environments with a standard over-the-shoulder perspective. If the player decides to use their digital camera to photograph something, they enter a first-person perspective to see through Linda's equipped camera. Any ghosts that are photographed or interacted with in any way will be recorded in a \"Ghostpedia\" in Linda's notebook. Linda can also find articles and journal entries that describe much of the game's backstory. A recent preview video shows a tablet version of the game, where the player controls Linda via the touch screen.\n\nWhen a group of senior high-school students go astray from their vacation trip in Indonesia, they discover an old deserted town. They soon realize that something sinister is about to happen. Linda Meilinda, realises something mystical is happening to her. She gains a spiritual power that could save her and her friends from the unknown.\n\nIndonesian developer Digital Happiness worked on the game using a team of around 20 people. After releasing a demo, they sought a crowd sourcing campaign via Indiegogo. The campaign asked for $25,000 USD in ending with $29,067 USD. They needed crowd sourcing since the game industry in Indonesia is small and focuses mostly on social or mobile games and were unable to find funding. Digital Happiness founder Rachmad Imron stated: “We have a lot of good human resources but most of them went abroad because there’s no game industry in Indonesia, but we hope this will change soon.\"\n\n\"DreadOut\" received mixed reviews from critics, who pointed out its cliche storyline, and the poor execution of its dialogue and cutscenes. It received an average score of 51.50% on GameRankings and a weighted score of 56/100 on Metacritic.\n"}
{"id": "34630675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34630675", "title": "Dreamtime (book)", "text": "Dreamtime (book)\n\nDreamtime: Concerning the Boundary between Wilderness and Civilization is an anthropological and philosophical study of the altered states of consciousness found in shamanism and European witchcraft written by German anthropologist Hans Peter Duerr. First published in 1978 by Syndikat Autoren-und Verlagsgesellschaft under the German title of \"Traumzeit: Über die Grenze zwischen Wildnis und Zivilisation\", it was translated into English by the Hungarian-American anthropologist Felicitas Goodman and published by Basil Blackwell in 1985.\n\n\"Dreamtime\" opens with the premise that many of those accused of witchcraft in early modern Christendom had been undergoing visionary journeys with the aid of a hallucinogenic salve which was suppressed by the Christian authorities. Duerr argues that this salve had been a part of the nocturnal visionary traditions associated with the goddess Diana, and he attempts to trace their origins back to the ancient world, before looking at goddesses associated with the wilderness and arguing that in various goddess-centred cultures, the cave represented a symbolic vagina and was used for birth rituals.\n\nLater in the book, Duerr looks at ethnographic examples of shamanism, focusing on the shamanic use of hallucinogens and the experiences which such entheogens induce. He argues that \"archaic cultures\" recognize that a human can only truly understand themselves if they go to the mental boundary between \"civilization\" and \"wilderness\", and that it is this altered state of consciousness which both the shaman and the European witch reached in their visionary journeys. Believing that the modern western worldview failed to understand this process, Duerr criticizes the work of those anthropologists and scientists who had tried to understand \"archaic\" society through a western rationalist framework, instead advocating a return to \"archaic\" modes of thought.\n\n\"Dreamtime\" was a controversial best-seller upon its initial release in West Germany, and inspired academic debate leading to the publication of \"Der Gläserne Zaun\" (1983), an anthology discussing Duerr's ideas, edited by Rolf Gehlen and Bernd Wolf. Reviews in the Anglophone world were mixed, with critics describing \"Dreamtime\" as unoriginal, factually inaccurate, and difficult to read, but also innovative and well referenced.\n\nAccording to his own account, the idea for writing \"Dreamtime\" first came to Duerr when he was in New Mexico in the summer of 1963. He had spent the day visiting the Puye Cliff Dwellings and was returning to the Albuquerque Greyhound Bus Station, where he met a Tewa Native \"yerbatero\" (herbalist) buying a cup of coffee, and struck up a conversation. Duerr asked the \"yerbatero\" if he could help him find a Native family living in one of the pueblos north of Santa Fe with whom he could stay, to conduct anthropological research into the nightly dances that took place in the subterranean kivas. The Native told him that if he wanted to find out about the dances in the kivas, then he should go to the Pueblo of Our Lady of the Angels and study at the University of California. Duerr would later relate that this blow to his vanity first provided him with the idea of writing \"Dreamtime\".\n\nDuerr presented some of his ideas in a lecture given to the members of a philosophy seminar at the University of Constance in the autumn of 1975, which he repeated at a housewives' club in Mannheim. He was \"greatly encouraged\" in his preparation for the work by the noted English anthropologist (1902–1973), who died before its publication.\n\nThe anthropologist Rik Pinxten noted that \"Dreamtime\" was published at a time of new advancements in German anthropology. After a period of intellectual stagnation during the preceding decades, the 1970s saw the rising popularity of the discipline, with a dramatic increase in the number of students enrolling to study ethnography at West German universities. It also saw increasing interdisciplinary collaboration between anthropologists and philosophers, with several scholars arguing that ethnography was relevant to \"philosophical analysis\". This increase in philosophical discussion within German anthropology was largely rejected by the \"official academic representatives\" of the discipline, who believed that it exceeded the \"limits of scientific respectability\", but it was nonetheless adopted by Duerr in \"Dreamtime\".\n\nWhen the book was first published in West Germany in 1978, it sold hundreds of thousands of copies, becoming a bestseller and arousing both popular and academic interest. According to the American Indologist Wendy Doniger O'Flaherty, \"Dreamtime\" became \"the canon of a cult for intellectual former hippies\", dealing as it did with issues such as \"drugs, sex, anarchy, [and] lurid religions\". British anthropologist Charles Stewart noted that it was popular among members of the \"alternativer\" German subculture, and for this reason believed that the book could tell anthropologists \"a considerable amount about the strivings of modern German society\".\n\nThe book was translated into English by Felicitas D. Goodman (1914–2005), a Hungarian-born American anthropologist who had written several books of her own on the subject of religious trance journeys. Duerr noted that of all the translators he had worked with, Goodman showed the greatest dedication to her work. For the English-language translation, Duerr included a new preface, in which he noted that he had refused to make changes to the original text despite the insistence of the publisher. Explaining his reasoning, he remarked that \"a book is not a dishwasher, where it is advisable to change malfunctioning parts.\" He accepted that the book had faults, and expressed his hope that the reader would forgive him for leaving them intact in the English translation. In the English-language edition, the main text takes up the first 133 pages of the book, while the footnotes and bibliography occupy the next 324 pages.\n\nDuerr examines the use of flying ointment in early modern witchcraft and draws ethnographic parallels from accused witches among the Shona people of Rhodesia and witchcraft beliefs of the Normanby Archipelago in the South Pacific. He concludes that some of those accused of witchcraft in early modern Europe had applied hallucinogenic ointments to their skin to make themselves believe that they were flying to the so-called witches' sabbat, a ritual gathering of witches. Noting the apparent lack of recipes for this salve in the witch trial records, Duerr posits the view that the Christian authorities intentionally covered up the existence of hallucinogenic ointments, fearing that their existence would cast doubt on various aspects of the witches' accounts, including their alleged encounters with the Devil. Duerr maintains that this knowledge might have ultimately led people to cast doubt on even the Devil, a key aspect of early modern Christian cosmology. Although the use of hallucinogenic ointments was not a factor in every witch trial, it was more prevalent in the earlier trials of the Alpine region. Duerr connects its use to the nocturnal visionary traditions associated with the goddess Diana in that region.\n\nDuerr then looks into the origins of the nocturnal visionary traditions, beginning with the ancient Greek deity Artemis and her influence on the Roman goddess Diana. In Alpine lore, Diana survived Christianization as the leader of the nocturnal procession. Duerr goes further back into the Palaeolithic, where Venus figurines are interpreted as a \"prototype\" for the later Greek Artemis, a goddess who was \"the unrestrained mistress of animals and plants\". Duerr then describes the relationship between ancient goddesses and caves as a symbol of the female vagina and explores stories involving caves in Greek mythology, \"Sir Gawain and the Green Knight\" and Yakut folklore. Duerr proposes that the association between caves and the vagina is global in scope, as societies around the world use caves in rituals symbolizing birth.\n\nVarious folk traditions across Europe are analyzed, such as the Alpine \"Perchtenlaufen\", where women broke social conventions by attacking men or engaging in lesbianism. Duerr compares these traditions to the \"benandanti\" of early modern Friuli, and to the Livonian werewolf, viewing them as representing the clash between order and chaos. Christian society in the Late Middle Ages began to construe the witch as a creature inside of society rather than outside it, which partly led to the witch trials of the early modern period. Duerr argues that the societies of European Christendom began to increasingly accept female nudity in art and fashion during the Late Middle Ages.\n\nExamples in the historical European folk tradition where criminals have been declared to be outside of the law and banished from the community are illustrated. Duerr connects these outsiders to executioners and warriors who were also outside the law because they had entered the world of the dead. Similarly, the witches of the early modern period also left the everyday world, and like the shamans of Siberia experienced their \"wild\" or \"animal aspect\" in order to understand their human side. Duerr uses ethnographic examples from around the world to show that many cultures have used hallucinogenic substances to reach states of consciousness beyond ordinary societal boundaries.\n\nDuerr provides additional ethnographic examples showing how societal rules were reversed at special times of the year. In shamanic terms, societies which espouse an \"archaic mentality\" understand who they are by understanding who they are not; according to Duerr, modern societies fail to understand this concept. \"Datura\", a plant that contains toxic hallucinogens is discussed. The plant was introduced to Europe in the early modern period. Among the Huichol people of central Mexico, shamans have told anthropologists that \"Datura\" is used by malevolent witches. Duerr makes note of the anthropologists who have undertaken shamanic experiences with the people they are studying, such as Barbara Myerhoff and Carlos Castenada, but argues that such ethnographers have failed to truly understand what shamans mean when they describe their experiences as \"flying\". In Duerr's view, shamans learn to evaporate their \"ego boundaries\", thereby experiencing themselves in a different way; it is this feeling that can be described as shamanic flying. Duerr ties these shamanic practices into the werewolves of early modern Europe, arguing that these werewolves did not physically transform into wolves, but that they embraced their \"wolf nature\" by crossing over the boundary from \"civilisation\" to \"wilderness\".\n\nDuerr then offers a philosophical discussion on the nature of reality, criticizing psychiatrists like George Devereux for their beliefs that shamans were mentally ill. Instead he champions the idea that the visionary experiences of shamans should be treated as real rather than illusionary, drawing from the ideas of the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein to support his argument. The author then examines the role of animals in shamanic visions, paying particular reference to the experiences of the Peruvian anthropologist Carlos Castaneda. Duerr argues that the conversations between the animal and the individual undertaking the vision are neither literal nor delusional, but that the only way to understand this is to situate oneself \"on the fence\", between the worlds of civilisation and wilderness.\n\nDuerr argues that modern Western society lacks important facets found in \"archaic\" societies who adhere to shamanic beliefs, and he asserts that the majority of Western anthropologists who have performed ethnographic fieldwork in these cultures have failed to truly understand them. To correct this, Duerr argues that anthropologists must understand that people in such societies take a \"mythic perspective\" to the world, often comparing objects and places in the material world to objects and places that exist \"outside of time\", in the eternal realm of mythology. He connects this with the Indigenous Australian concept of Dreamtime, an otherworld outside of ordinary space and time.\n\nFinally, Duerr once again criticises the approach of Western society and its anthropologists to studying \"archaic\" spiritual beliefs. He asserts that in these \"archaic\" cultures, people \"have a much clearer idea about the fact that we can not \"be\" only what we are if at the same time, we are also what we are \"not\", and that we can only know who we are if we experience our boundaries\". He denounces Western scientists and anthropologists for their approaches to the study of such cultures, arguing that they have misrepresented them by attempting to fit them within the Western ideas of objectivity. He argues that in future, anthropologists must reach their own boundaries, and recognize the wilderness of their consciousness before they can truly understand the worldview of \"archaic\" humans.\n\nWriting in \"The Journal of Religion\", Gail Hinich claimed that Duerr's \"Dreamtime\" had a \"maverick whimsy and passion\" that stemmed from its argument that Western society had unfairly forced the \"otherworld\" into \"an autistic tyranny of the self\". On a critical note, Hinich believed that despite Duerr's extensive bibliography, he had failed to understand the \"critical context in which the intellectual history of the demonized outsider continues to be examined\", ignoring the ideas put forward by Edward Dudley and Maximilian Novack in their edited volume \"The Wild Man Within\" (1972) or John Block\nFriedman in his \"The Monstrous Races in Medieval Art and Thought\" (1981). In a review published in the journal \"Forest & Conservation History\", Paul Fayter praised \"Dreamtime\", considering it to be a \"groundbreaking ethnographic study\" that invites the reader to consider what Western society has lost in its over-reliance on science and rationalism. Fayter also commented positively on Goodman's translation, noting that she had successfully conveyed Duerr's dry humour and self-deprecating wit.\n\nJoseph J. Valadez of the Harvard School of Public Health reviewed Duerr's \"Dreamtime\" for the journal \"Contemporary Sociology\". He felt that the book had brought him to the \"edges of [his] own logics\", but that this had not been the result of any intellectual argument posed by Duerr; indeed, he suggested that there were \"crucial scholarly weaknesses\" that made much of Duerr's argument suspect. He ultimately felt that because Duerr had refused to correct his factual mistakes for the English translation, the book had left the realms of scholarship and instead become an \"obscure cultural artifact\", one which was \"represented by the myriad descriptions of cryptic symbols\" that are discussed within its pages. Going on to comment on Duerr's main argument regarding the relationship between Wilderness and Civilization, Valadez also expressed his opinion that Duerr had made a \"fundamental error\" in assuming that Wilderness is not accessible to everyone \"by virtue of genetic heritage.\"\n\nIn the \"Comparative Civilizations Review\" journal, Anthony M. Stevens-Arroyo proclaimed that it was easy \"to get lost\" in \"Dreamtime\", believing that the multitude of ethnographic and historical facts presented by Duerr often distracted from the book's main arguments. Although praising the book's contents, Stevens-Arroyo expressed his annoyance at Duerr's use of humour, believing that it was inappropriate in such a serious work of scholarship. He also remarked that Duerr \"practices what he preaches\", noting that the book was something of an \"apologia\" for his involvement in the counter-cultural and drug subcultures of the 1960s and his continuing advocacy of the use of mind-altering substances, in the same style as Timothy Leary. Considering the work to be an attack on social convention, he believes that Duerr has made use of mind-altering drugs to cross boundaries into altered states of consciousness and that \"Dreamtime\" is his invitation for others to join him. Stevens-Arroyo did praise Goodman's English translation, but argued that the index was too limited.\n\nIn a commentary piece for the \"Journal of the Anthropological Society of Oxford\", Charles Stewart expressed his opinion that \"Dreamtime\" is best described as \"the sort of book that Carlos Castaneda might have written if he were a German philosopher.\" He identifies a series of commonalities between Duerr's work and Castenada's, claiming that Duerr's description of his encounter with the Native American \"yerbatero\" in the book's preface is an \"allusion\" to Castenada's meeting with Don Juan Matus, which he described in \"The Teachings of Don Juan\" (1968). Praising Duerr's use of source material, Stewart notes that many anthropologists would be critical of using ethnographic data to \"construct a moral parable\" for Western society, and he went on to question whether it was really necessary for Westerners to return to \"archaic\" modes of thought.\n\nThe American Indologist Wendy Doniger O'Flaherty of the University of Chicago published a review of Duerr's \"Dreamtime\" in \"The New York Times\". She expressed her opinion that Duerr had put forward a \"bold hypothesis\" but that \"Dreamtime\" was a \"paradigm of borderline academia\", consisting of chapter titles written with \"charm and wit\" that hid \"a mountainous scholarly apparatus – 236 pages of 827 notes, with an 86-page bibliography of some 2,400 titles, to support 133 pages of text.\" She also identified multiple influences on Duerr's thinking, including historian and philosopher of science Paul Feyerabend, the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, the historian of religions Mircea Eliade, and the anthropologist Carlos Castenada.\n\nUltimately, Doniger O'Flaherty was critical of \"Dreamtime\", commenting that \"Duerr is attempting to hunt with the hounds and run with the hare, and his book is likely to infuriate both ordinary readers and scholars.\" Although initially appearing suitable for the average reader, she felt that most would be put off by the \"daunting scholarly apparatus\" he had employed, and the \"heaviness of the argument\". Believing that the book was difficult to read, she felt that Duerr had hidden his arguments in the footnotes, and that reading the first third of the book was akin to \"wandering stoned through the stacks of a very fine European library, browsing in the sections devoted to witchcraft, hallucinogens and orgiastic cults. It is good fun, but it is not for all tastes.\" She equally felt that the book would be criticized by academics and other scholars working in the fields of witchcraft history and the history of religion, who would recognize that the book not only contained multiple factual errors, but also that many of Duerr's arguments were unoriginal, having previously been made by Mircea Eliade and Victor Turner.\n\nWriting for the \"Los Angeles Times\", Kenneth Atchity described Duerr's book as being \"outstanding for its weirdness and provocation\" despite the fact that its \"anthropology is neither original nor precise.\" Atchity maintains that \"Dreamtime\" offers nothing new except \"the energy of its serendipity\", noting similarities with books such as James Frazer's \"The Golden Bough\" (1890), Robert Graves' \"The White Goddess\" (1948), and the works of Carlos Castenada. Although of the opinion that it contained \"patches of brilliant illumination\", Atchity ultimately considered \"Dreamtime\" to be an \"obscure essay on the human experience.\"\n\nIn 1983, German academics Rolf Gehlen and Bernd Wolf published \"Der Gläserne Zaun: Aufsätze zu Hans Peter Duerrs \"Traumzeit\"\" (\"The Glass Fence: Essays on Hans Peter Duerr's \"Dreamtime\"\"), an edited volume of papers discussing Duerr's work. Duerr's theories were evaluated by Belgian anthropologist Rik Pinxten in an academic paper entitled \"Dreamtime: Relativism and Irrationality in the Work of Hans Peter Duerr\" (1992), published in the \"Cognitive Relativism and Social Science\" volume. Pinxten discussed the role of German anthropology within academia and its influence on philosophy and described \"Dreamtime\" as \"the most important publication\" to emerge from the interaction between the two disciplines.\n\nIn her study of feminist-orientated Wicca in New Zealand (2004), the anthropologist Kathryn Rountree remarked that along with historian Carlo Ginzburg's \"Ecstasies: Deciphering the Witches' Sabbath\" (1989), \"Dreamtime\" offered \"perhaps the most detailed investigation so far\" of the witches' sabbath. Similarly, Duerr's work was referenced by anthropologist Susan Greenwood in her study of the Wiccan and ceremonial magical communities of London, \"Magic, Witchcraft and the Otherworld\" (2000).\n\nAccording to Dutch historian Willem de Blécourt, \"Dreamtime\" was responsible for first introducing the 1692 case of Thiess of Kaltenbrun, the 'Livonian werewolf', to Anglophone scholarship. Prior to this, he noted, scholarly debate on the case had been restricted to German-speaking scholars. Duerr had briefly discussed the case in the chapter \"Wild Women and Werewolves\", in which he compared it with various European folk traditions in which individuals broke social taboos and made mischief in public, arguing that they represented a battle between the forces of chaos and order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2517933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2517933", "title": "Elymais", "text": "Elymais\n\nElymais or Elamais (Ἐλυμαΐς, Hellenic form of the more ancient name, Elam) was a semi-independent state of the 2nd century BC to the early 3rd century AD, frequently a vassal under Parthian control, and located at the head of the Persian Gulf in the present-day region of Khuzestan, Iran (Susiana). It is reported that these people were great archers and natives of Susa, which lay to the east of Elymais territory. Most of the Elymais were probably descendants of the ancient Elamites, who once had control of that area in the past. The provinces of Elymais were Massabatice (later Masabadhan), Corbiane and Gabiane.\n\nNothing is known of their language, even though Elamite was still used by the Achaemenid Empire 250 years before the Elymais came into existence. A number of Aramaic inscriptions are found in Elymais. The kingdom of Elymais survived until its extinction by a Sassanid invasion in the early 3rd century AD.\n\nIt is reported in 2 Maccabees that the priests of the temple of Nanea, which is located in Susa, tricked Antiochus IV Epiphanes and murdered him by throwing rocks on him and dismembering him (2Macc 1:10–17).\n\nThe coins of Elymais depicted a king; it is not known whether this was a Parthian king or a local ruler, as such information has not come to light. These coins were based on Greek standards of debased Drachms and Tetradrachms. The royal picture is generally based on Parthian coinage, usually with an anchor with a star in crescent figure. The reverse has a figure or bust of Artemis with text around it, an eagle, or often only elongated dots (this has led numismatists to believe that the engravers didn't know Greek or copied from coins whose writing was already unintelligible).\n\nList of rulers\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49996145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49996145", "title": "Euphonia (device)", "text": "Euphonia (device)\n\nThe euphonia was a talking machine created in the early to mid-nineteenth century by the Austrian inventor Joseph Faber and exhibited in 1845 in Philadelphia and in 1846 in London. An earlier version of the invention had been destroyed in 1844 by Faber.\n\nA mechanical device that he had reportedly spent over twenty-five years developing, Faber's \"Fabulous Talking Machine\", which would later be renamed the \"euphonia\", was constructed of several different mechanisms and instruments: a piano, a bellows, and a mechanical replica of the human throat and vocal organs. By pressing the keys on the keyboard, a human operator produced sounds that inflated the bellows, caused the mechanical mouth to open, the mechanical tongue to be lifted, and the mechanical jaws to move. Able to produce sentences in English, French, and German, the euphonia was reported by \"The London Journal\" to speak all three with a German accent, a fact attributed to the native language (German) of the inventor. Exhibited with a female mask covering the mechanical mouth, tongue, and jaw and at times with a dress hanging below the mask, the euphonia would perform for audiences, pretending to respond to or mimic the words of the keyboard operator. In describing the euphonia, the 19th century American scientist Joseph Henry explained \"that sixteen levers or keys 'like those of a piano' projected sixteen elementary sounds by which 'every word in all European languages can be distinctly produced.' A seventeenth key opened and closed the equivalent of the glottis, an aperture between the vocal cords. 'The plan of the machine is the same as that of the human organs of speech, the several parts being worked by strings and levers instead of tendons and muscles.'\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15668398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15668398", "title": "Forschungsinstitut für Musiktheater", "text": "Forschungsinstitut für Musiktheater\n\nThe (FIMT) is a research institute for the study of opera and musical theatre. It is located in the Thurnau Castle, Thurnau, near Bayreuth, Bavaria.\n\nFIMT is associated with the University of Bayreuth. The head of FIMT is also head of the Faculty for Theater Studies at the university, and the staff of FIMT teach Music Theater and related subjects at the university, including musicology, Theatre Studies, and Media Studies.\n\nFIMT grants Bachelor of Arts degrees in \"\", and Master of Arts and Ph.D. degrees in \"Musik und Performance\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "74844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74844", "title": "Glasses", "text": "Glasses\n\nGlasses, also known as eyeglasses or spectacles, are devices consisting of glass or hard plastic lenses mounted in a frame that holds them in front of a person's eyes, typically using a bridge over the nose and arms which rest over the ears.\n\nGlasses are typically used for vision correction, such as with reading glasses and glasses used for nearsightedness.\n\nSafety glasses provide eye protection against flying debris for construction workers or lab technicians; these glasses may have protection for the sides of the eyes as well as in the lenses. Some types of safety glasses are used to protect against visible and near-visible light or radiation. Glasses are worn for eye protection in some sports, such as squash.\n\nGlasses wearers may use a strap to prevent the glasses from falling off during movement or sports. Wearers of glasses that are used only part of the time may have the glasses attached to a cord that goes around their neck, to prevent the loss of the glasses and breaking.\n\nSunglasses allow better vision in bright daylight, and may protect one's eyes against damage from high levels of ultraviolet light. Typical sunglasses are darkened for protection against bright light or glare; some specialized glasses are clear in dark or indoor conditions, but turn into sunglasses when in bright light. Most sunglasses do not have corrective power in the lenses; however, special prescription sunglasses can be ordered.\n\nSpecialized glasses may be used for viewing specific visual information, for example 3D glasses for 3D films (stereoscopy). Sometimes glasses are worn purely for fashion or aesthetic purposes. Even with glasses used for vision correction, a wide range of fashions are available, using plastic, wire, and other materials.\n\nPeople are more likely to need glasses the older they get with 93% of people between the ages of 65 and 75 wearing corrective lenses.\nGlasses can be marked or found by their primary function, but also appear in combinations such as prescription sunglasses or safety glasses with enhanced magnification.\n\nCorrective lenses are used to correct refractive errors by bending the light entering the eye in order to alleviate the effects of conditions such as nearsightedness (myopia), farsightedness (hypermetropia) or astigmatism. The ability of one's eyes to accommodate their focus to near and distant focus alters over time. A common condition in people over forty years old is presbyopia, which is caused by the eye's crystalline lens losing elasticity, progressively reducing the ability of the lens to accommodate (i.e. to focus on objects close to the eye). Few people have a pair of eyes that show exactly equal refractive characteristics; one eye may need a \"stronger\" (i.e. more refracting) lens than the other.\n\nCorrective lenses bring the image back into focus on the retina. They are made to conform to the prescription of an ophthalmologist or optometrist. A lensmeter can be used to verify the specifications of an existing pair of glasses. Corrective eyeglasses can significantly improve the life quality of the wearer. Not only do they enhance the wearer's visual experience, but can also reduce problems that result from eye strain, such as headaches or squinting.\n\nThe most common type of corrective lens is \"single vision\", which has a uniform refractive index. For people with presbyopia and hyperopia, bifocal and trifocal glasses provide two or three different refractive indices, respectively, and progressive lenses have a continuous gradient.\n\nReading glasses provide a separate set of glasses for focusing on close-by objects. Reading glasses are available without prescription from drugstores, and offer a cheap, practical solution, though these have a pair of simple lenses of equal power, so will not correct refraction problems like astigmatism or refractive or prismatic variations between the left and right eye. For total correction of the individual's sight, glasses complying to a recent ophthalmic prescription are required.\n\nAdjustable-focus eyeglasses might be used to replace bifocals or trifocals, or might be used to produce cheaper single-vision glasses (since they don't have to be custom-manufactured for every person).\n\nPinhole glasses are a type of corrective glasses that do not use a lens. Pinhole glasses do not actually refract the light or change focal length. Instead, they create a diffraction limited system, which has an increased depth of field, similar to using a small aperture in photography. This form of correction has many limitations that prevent it from gaining popularity in everyday use. Pinhole glasses can be made in a DIY fashion by making small holes in a piece of card which is then held in front of the eyes with a strap or cardboard arms.\n\nSafety glasses are worn to protect the eyes in different situations. They are made with break-proof plastic lenses to protect the eye from flying debris or other matter. Construction workers, factory workers, machinists and lab technicians are often required to wear safety glasses to shield the eyes from flying debris or hazardous splatters such as blood or chemicals. As of 2017, dentists and surgeons in Canada and other countries are required to wear safety glasses to protect against infection from patients' blood or other body fluids. There are also safety glasses for welding, which are styled like wraparound sunglasses, but with much darker lenses, for use in welding where a full sized welding helmet is inconvenient or uncomfortable. These are often called \"flash goggles\", because they provide protection from welding flash. Nylon frames are usually used for protection eyewear for sports because of their lightweight and flexible properties. Unlike most regular glasses, safety glasses often include protection beside the eyes as well as in front of the eyes.\n\nSunglasses provide improved comfort and protection against bright light and often against ultraviolet (UV) light. To properly protect the eyes from the dangers of UV light, sunglasses should have UV-400 blocker to provide good coverage against the entire light spectrum that poses a danger. Photochromic lenses, which are photosensitive, darken when struck by UV light. The dark tint of the lenses in a pair of sunglasses blocks the transmission of light through the lens.\n\nLight polarization is an added feature that can be applied to sunglass lenses. Polarization filters are positioned to remove horizontally polarized rays of light, which eliminates glare from horizontal surfaces (allowing wearers to see into water when reflected light would otherwise overwhelm the scene). Polarized sunglasses may present some difficulties for pilots since reflections from water and other structures often used to gauge altitude may be removed. Liquid-crystal displays often emit polarized light making them sometimes difficult to view with polarized sunglasses. Sunglasses may be worn just for aesthetic purposes, or simply to hide the eyes. Examples of sunglasses that were popular for these reasons include teashades and mirrorshades. Many blind people wear nearly opaque glasses to hide their eyes for cosmetic reasons.\n\nSunglasses may also have corrective lenses, which requires a prescription. Clip-on sunglasses or sunglass clips can be attached to another pair of glasses. Some wrap-around sunglasses are large enough to be worn over top of another pair of glasses. Otherwise, many people opt to wear contact lenses to correct their vision so that standard sunglasses can be used.\n\nThe doubleframe uplifting glasses have one moving frame with one pair of lenses and the basic fixed frame with another pair of lenses (optional), that are connected by four-bar linkage. For example, sunlenses could be easily lifted up and down while mixed with myopia lenses that always stay on. Presbyopia lenses could be also combined and easily removed from field of view if needed without taking off glasses.\n\nThe illusion of three dimensions on a two dimensional surface can be created by providing each eye with different visual information. 3D glasses create the illusion of three dimensions by filtering a signal containing information for both eyes. The signal, often light reflected off a movie screen or emitted from an electronic display, is filtered so that each eye receives a slightly different image. The filters only work for the type of signal they were designed for.\n\nAnaglyph 3D glasses have a different colored filter for each eye, typically red and blue or red and green. A polarized 3D system on the other hand uses polarized filters. Polarized 3D glasses allow for color 3D, while the red-blue lenses produce an image with distorted coloration. An active shutter 3D system uses electronic shutters. Head-mounted displays can filter the signal electronically and then transmit light directly into the viewers eyes.\n\nAnaglyph and polarized glasses are distributed to audiences at 3D movies. Polarized and active shutter glasses are used with many home theaters. Head-mounted displays are used by a single person, but the input signal can be shared between multiple units.\n\nGlasses can also provide magnification that is useful for people with vision impairments or specific occupational demands. An example would be \"bioptics\" or \"bioptic telescopes\" which have small telescopes mounted on, in, or behind their regular lenses. Newer designs use smaller lightweight telescopes, which can be embedded into the corrective glass and improve aesthetic appearance (mini telescopic spectacles). They may take the form of self-contained glasses that resemble goggles or binoculars, or may be attached to existing glasses.\n\nYellow tinted glasses are a type of glasses with a minor yellow tint. They perform minor color correction, on top of reducing headaches due to lack of blinking. They may also be considered minor corrective unprescribed glasses. Depending on the company, these computer or gaming glasses can also filter out high energy blue and ultra-violet light from LCD screens, fluorescent lighting, and other sources of light. This allows for reduced eye-strain. These glasses can be ordered as standard or prescription lenses that fit into standard optical frames. Due to the ultra-violet light blocking nature of these lenses, they also help users sleep at night along with reducing age-related macular degeneration.\n\nAnti-glare protection glasses, or anti-reflective glasses, can reduce the reflection of light that enters our eyes. The lenses are given an anti-glare coating to prevent reflections of light under different lighting conditions. By reducing the amount of glare on your eyes, vision can be improved. The anti-glare also applies to the outer glass, thus allowing for better eye contact.\n\nThe ophthalmic frame is the part of a pair of glasses which is designed to hold the lenses in proper position.\nOphthalmic frames come in a variety of styles, sizes, materials, shapes, and colors.\n\n\n\n\nVarious metals and alloys may be used to make glasses such as gold, silver, aluminum, beryllium, stainless steel, titanium and nickel titanium.\n\nAlso natural materials may be used such as wood, bone, ivory, leather and semi-precious or precious stones.\n\nCorrective lenses can be produced in many different shapes from a circular lens called a lens blank. Lens blanks are cut to fit the shape of the frame that will hold them. Frame styles vary and fashion trends change over time, resulting in a multitude of lens shapes. For lower power lenses, there are few restrictions which allows for many trendy and fashionable shapes. Higher power lenses can cause distortion of peripheral vision and may become thick and heavy if a large lens shape is used. However, if the lens becomes too small, the field of view can be drastically reduced.\n\nBifocal, trifocal, and progressive lenses generally require a taller lens shape to leave room for the different segments while preserving an adequate field of view through each segment. Frames with rounded edges are the most efficient for correcting myopic prescriptions, with perfectly round frames being the most efficient. Before the advent of eyeglasses as a fashion item, when frames were constructed with only functionality in mind, virtually all eyeglasses were either round, oval, or curved octagons. It was not until glasses began to be seen as an accessory that different shapes were introduced to be more aesthetically pleasing than functional.\n\nScattered evidence exists for use of vision aid devices in Greek and Roman times, most prominently the use of an emerald by emperor Nero as mentioned by Pliny the Elder.\n\nThe use of a convex lens to form an enlarged/magnified image was most likely described in Ptolemy's \"Optics\" (which however only survives in a poor Arabic translation). Ptolemy's description of lenses was commented upon and improved by Ibn Sahl (10th century) and most notably by Alhazen (\"Book of Optics\", ca. 1021). Latin translations of Ptolemy's \"Optics\" and of Alhazen became available in Europe in the 12th century, coinciding with the development of \"reading stones\".\n\nRobert Grosseteste's treatise \"De iride\" (\"On the Rainbow\"), written between 1220 and 1235, mentions using optics to \"read the smallest letters at incredible distances\". A few years later in 1262, Roger Bacon is also known to have written on the magnifying properties of lenses.\nThe development of the first eyeglasses took place in Northern Italy in the second half of the 13th century.\n\nIndependently of the development of optical lenses, some cultures developed \"sunglasses\" for eye protection, without any corrective properties.\nThus, flat panes of smoky quartz, were used in 12th-century China. Similarly, the Inuit have used snow goggles for eye protection.\n\nThe first eyeglasses were made in Northern Italy, most likely in Pisa, by about 1290:\nIn a sermon delivered on 23 February 1306, the Dominican friar Giordano da Pisa (ca. 1255–1311) wrote \"It is not yet twenty years since there was found the art of making eyeglasses, which make for good vision... And it is so short a time that this new art, never before extant, was discovered. ... I saw the one who first discovered and practiced it, and I talked to him.\"\n\nGiordano's colleague Friar Alessandro della Spina of Pisa (d. 1313) was soon making eyeglasses. The \"Ancient Chronicle of the Dominican Monastery of St. Catherine in Pisa\" records: \"Eyeglasses, having first been made by someone else, who was unwilling to share them, he [Spina] made them and shared them with everyone with a cheerful and willing heart.\" By 1301, there were guild regulations in Venice governing the sale of eyeglasses.\nThe earliest pictorial evidence for the use of eyeglasses is Tommaso da Modena's 1352 portrait of the cardinal Hugh de Provence reading in a scriptorium. Another early example would be a depiction of eyeglasses found north of the Alps in an altarpiece of the church of Bad Wildungen, Germany, in 1403. These early glasses had convex lenses that could correct both hyperopia (farsightedness), and the presbyopia that commonly develops as a symptom of aging. It was not until 1604 that Johannes Kepler published the first correct explanation as to why convex and concave lenses could correct presbyopia and myopia.\n\nEarly frames for glasses consisted of two magnifying glasses riveted together by the handles so that they could grip the nose. These are referred to as \"rivet spectacles\". The earliest surviving examples were found under the floorboards at Kloster Wienhausen, a convent near Celle in Germany; they have been dated to \"circa\" 1400.\n\nClaims that Salvino degli Armati of Florence invented eyeglasses have been exposed as hoaxes.\n\nMarco Polo is sometimes claimed to have encountered eyeglasses during his travels in China in the 13th century. However, no such statement appears in his accounts. Indeed, the earliest mentions of eyeglasses in China occur in the 15th century and those Chinese sources state that eyeglasses were imported.\n\nIt is also sometimes claimed that glasses were first invented in India. In 1907 Professor Berthold Laufer stated in his history of glasses that \"the opinion that spectacles originated in India is of the greatest probability and that spectacles must have been known in India earlier than in Europe\". However, Joseph Needham showed that the mention of glasses in the manuscript Laufer used to justify the prior invention of them in Asia did not exist in older versions of that manuscript, and the reference to them in later versions was added during the Ming dynasty. In a 1971 article in the British Journal of Ophthalmology it was argued that it: \"...is therefore most likely that the use of lenses reached Europe via the Arabs, as did Hindu mathematics and the ophthalmological works of the ancient Hindu surgeon Susruta\", but all dates given are well after the existence of eyeglasses in Italy was established, and there had been significant shipments of eye glasses from Italy to the Middle East, with one shipment as large as 24,000 glasses.\n\nThe American scientist Benjamin Franklin, who suffered from both myopia and presbyopia, invented bifocals. Serious historians have from time to time produced evidence to suggest that others may have preceded him in the invention; however, a correspondence between George Whatley and John Fenno, editor of \"The Gazette of the United States\", suggested that Franklin had indeed invented bifocals, and perhaps 50 years earlier than had been originally thought. The first lenses for correcting astigmatism were designed by the British astronomer George Airy in 1825.\n\nOver time, the construction of frames for glasses also evolved. Early eyepieces were designed to be either held in place by hand or by exerting pressure on the nose (\"pince-nez\"). Girolamo Savonarola suggested that eyepieces could be held in place by a ribbon passed over the wearer's head, this in turn secured by the weight of a hat. The modern style of glasses, held by temples passing over the ears, was developed some time before 1727, possibly by the British optician Edward Scarlett. These designs were not immediately successful, however, and various styles with attached handles such as \"scissors-glasses\" and lorgnettes were also fashionable from the second half of the 18th century and into the early 19th century.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Moritz von Rohr and Zeiss (with the assistance of H. Boegehold and A. Sonnefeld), developed the Zeiss Punktal spherical point-focus lenses that dominated the eyeglass lens field for many years. In 2008, Joshua Silver designed eyewear with adjustable corrective glasses. They work by silicone liquid, a syringe, and a pressure mechanism.\n\nDespite the increasing popularity of contact lenses and laser corrective eye surgery, glasses remain very common, as their technology has improved. For instance, it is now possible to purchase frames made of special memory metal alloys that return to their correct shape after being bent. Other frames have spring-loaded hinges. Either of these designs offers dramatically better ability to withstand the stresses of daily wear and the occasional accident. Modern frames are also often made from strong, light-weight materials such as titanium alloys, which were not available in earlier times.\n\nIn the 1930s, \"spectacles\" were described as \"medical appliances.\" Wearing spectacles was sometimes considered socially humiliating. \nIn the 1970s, fashionable glasses started to become available through manufacturers, and governments also recognized the demand for stylized eyewear.\n\nGraham Pullin describes how devices for disability, like glasses, have traditionally been designed to camouflage against the skin and restore ability without being visible. In the past, design for disability has \"been less about projecting a positive image as about trying not to project an image at all.\" Pullin uses the example of spectacles, traditionally categorized as a medical device for \"patients\", and outlines how they are now described as eyewear: a fashionable accessory. Much like other fashion designs and accessories, eyewear is created by designers, has reputable labels, and comes in collections, by season and designer. It is becoming more common for consumers purchase eyewear with clear, non-prescription lenses, illustrating that glasses are no longer a social stigma, but a fashionable accessory that \"frames your face.\"\n\nThe market for spectacles has been characterized as having highly inelastic demand, and advertising restrictions in the USA have correlated with higher prices, suggesting that adverts make the spectacles market more price-competitive. It may also be monopolistically competitive.\n\nThere are claims that insufficiently free market competition inflates the prices of frames, which cost an average of $25-$50 US to make, to an average retail price of $300 in the United States. This claim is disputed by some in the industry. (See also Luxottica#Criticism.)\n\nSome organizations like Lions Clubs International, Unite For Sight, ReSpectacle, and New Eyes for the Needy provide a way to donate glasses and sunglasses. Unite For Sight has redistributed more than 200,000 pairs.\n\nMany people require glasses for the reasons listed above. There are many shapes, colors, and materials that can be used when designing frames and lenses that can be utilized in various combinations. Oftentimes, the selection of a frame is made based on how it will affect the appearance of the wearer. Some people with good natural eyesight like to wear eyeglasses as a style accessory.\n\nFor most of their history, eyeglasses were seen as unfashionable, and carried several potentially negative connotations: wearing glasses caused individuals to be stigmatized and stereotyped as pious clergymen (as those in religious vocation were the most likely to be literate and therefore the most likely to need reading glasses), elderly, or physically weak and passive. The stigma began to fall away in the early 1900s when the popular Theodore Roosevelt was regularly photographed wearing eyeglasses, and in the 1910s when popular comedian Harold Lloyd began wearing a pair of horn-rimmed glasses as the \"Glasses\" character in his films.\nSince, eyeglasses have become an acceptable fashion item and often act as a key component in individuals' personal image. Musicians Buddy Holly and John Lennon became synonymous with the styles of eye-glasses they wore to the point that thick, black horn-rimmed glasses are often called \"Buddy Holly glasses\" and perfectly round metal eyeglass frames called \"John Lennon (or Harry Potter) Glasses.\" British comedic actor Eric Sykes was known in the United Kingdom for wearing thick, square, horn-rimmed glasses, which were in fact a sophisticated hearing aid that alleviated his deafness by allowing him to \"hear\" vibrations. Some celebrities have become so associated with their eyeglasses that they continued to wear them even after taking alternate measures against vision problems: United States Senator Barry Goldwater and comedian Drew Carey continued to wear non-prescription glasses after being fitted for contacts and getting laser eye surgery, respectively.\n\nOther celebrities have used glasses to differentiate themselves from the characters they play, such as Anne Kirkbride, who wore oversized, 1980s-style round horn-rimmed glasses as Deirdre Barlow in the soap opera \"Coronation Street\", and Masaharu Morimoto, who wears glasses to separate his professional persona as a chef from his stage persona as Iron Chef Japanese. In 2012 some NBA players wear lensless glasses with thick plastic frames like horn-rimmed glasses during post-game interviews, geek chic that draws comparisons to Steve Urkel.\n\nIn superhero fiction, eyeglasses have become a standard component of various heroes' disguises (as masks), allowing them to adopt a nondescript demeanor when they are not in their superhero personae: Superman is well known for wearing 1950s style horn-rimmed glasses as Clark Kent, while Wonder Woman wears either round, Harold Lloyd style glasses or 1970s style bug-eye glasses as Diana Prince. An example of the halo effect is seen in the stereotype that those who wear glasses are intelligent.\nIn the 20th century, eyeglasses came to be considered a component of fashion; as such, various different styles have come in and out of popularity. Most are still in regular use, albeit with varying degrees of frequency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "157901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157901", "title": "Gratuity", "text": "Gratuity\n\nA gratuity (also called a tip) is a sum of money customarily given by a client or customer to a service worker in addition to the basic price. Tipping is commonly given to certain service sector workers for a service performed, as opposed to money offered for a product or as part of a purchase price. Depending on the country or location, it may or may not be customary to tip servers in bars and restaurants, taxi drivers (including ridesharing), hair stylists and so on. The exchange is typically irreversible, differentiating it from the reward mechanism of a placed order, which can be refunded.\n\nTips and their amount are a matter of social custom and etiquette, and the custom varies between countries and settings. In some locations tipping is discouraged and considered insulting, while in some other locations tipping is expected from customers. The customary amount of a tip can be a specific range of monetary amounts or a certain percentage of the bill based on the perceived quality of the service given.\n\nIn some circumstances, such as with U.S. government workers and more widely with police officers, receiving gratuities (or even offering them) is illegal; they may be regarded as bribery. A fixed percentage service charge is sometimes added to bills in restaurants and similar establishments. Tipping may not be expected when a fee is explicitly charged for the service.\n\nFrom a theoretical economic point of view, gratuities may solve the principal-agent problem (the situation in which an agent, such as a server, is working for a principal, such as a restaurant owner or manager) and many managers believe that tips provide incentive for greater worker effort. However, studies of the real world practice show that tipping is often discriminatory or arbitrary; workers receive different levels of gratuity based on factors such as age, sex, race, hair color and even breast size, and the size of the gratuity is found to be only very weakly related to the quality of service.\n\nAccording to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", the word \"tip\" originated as a slang term and its etymology is unclear. According to the \"Online Etymology Dictionary\", the meaning \"give a small present of money\" began around 1600, and the meaning \"give a gratuity to\" is first attested in 1706. The noun in this sense is from 1755. The term in the sense of \"to give a gratuity\" first appeared in the 18th century. It derived from an earlier sense of \"tip\", meaning \"to give; to hand, pass\", which originated in the rogues' cant in the 17th century. This sense may have derived from the 16th-century \"tip\" meaning \"to strike or hit smartly but lightly\" (which may have derived from the Low German \"tippen\", \"to tap\") but this derivation is \"very uncertain\". The word \"tip\" was first used as a verb in 1707 in George Farquhar's play \"The Beaux' Stratagem\". Farquhar used the term after it had been \"used in criminal circles as a word meant to imply the unnecessary and gratuitous gifting of something somewhat taboo, like a joke, or a sure bet, or illicit money exchanges.\"\n\nThe practice of tipping began in Tudor England. \"By the 17th century, it was expected that overnight guests to private homes would provide sums of money, known as vails, to the host’s servants. Soon afterwards, customers began tipping in London coffeehouses and other commercial establishments\".\n\nThe etymology for the synonym for tipping, \"gratuity\", dates back either to the 1520s, from \"graciousness\", from the French \"gratuité\" (14th century) or directly from Medieval Latin \"gratuitas\", \"free gift\", probably from earlier Latin \"gratuitus\", \"free, freely given\" . The meaning \"money given for favor or services\" is first attested in the 1530s.\n\nIn some languages, the term translates to \"drink money\" or similar: for example \"pourboire\" in French, \"Trinkgeld\" in German, \"drikkepenge\" in Danish, and \"napiwek\" in Polish. This comes from a custom of inviting a servant to drink a glass in honour of the guest, and paying for it, in order for the guests to show generosity among each other. The term \"bibalia\" in Latin was recorded in 1372.\n\nA tronc is an arrangement for the pooling and distribution to employees of tips, gratuities and/or service charges in the hotel and catering trade. The person who distributes monies from the tronc is known as the troncmaster. When a tronc exists in the UK, responsibility for deducting pay-as-you-earn taxes from the distribution may lie with the troncmaster rather than the employer. The word \"tronc\" has its origins in the French for collecting box. In June 2008, the Employment Appeals Tribunal ruled in a UK test case (Revenue and Customs Commissioners v Annabel’s (Berkeley Square) Ltd) that income from a tronc cannot be counted when assessing whether a wage or salary meets the national minimum wage.\n\nIn Nigeria tipping is not so common at upscale hotels and restaurants because service charge is usually included in the bill though the employees seldom get this as part of their wages. In recent times however, the service provider usually coerce the customer for tips in a subtle manner. There have been reported cases of security guards asking bank customers for tips.\n\nIn China, traditionally there is no tipping. However, hotels that routinely serve foreign tourists allow tipping. An example would be tour guides and associated drivers. \n\nIn Hong Kong, tipping is not typically expected at hotels or restaurant establishments, where a \"service charge\" of 10% is added to a bill instead of expecting a gratuity. Taxi drivers in Hong Kong may also charge the difference between a fare and a round sum as a \"courtesy fee\" to avoid making change for larger bills.\n\nTipping culture is not practiced in Japan and may cause confusion or insult if attempted without utilizing an envelope. Like many other countries in East Asia, Japanese people see tipping as insulting. But it's mostly because the Japanese .\n\nIf eating a casual meal -breakfast or snack- with a bill total less than 300 INR, then a 10% tip is expected and appreciated. If small bills are handy, tip can be in multiples of 10 INR notes.\n\nIn Indonesia tipping is common in large tourist areas, such as Bali or Lombok. 10% gratuity is expected at full-service restaurants. Bar tipping is discretional and depends on the style of a bar: in Bali, most bars are owned by expatriates and, normally, expat's country of origin reflects the style of a bar. Pubs do not expect tips. Restaurants – 10% to 15%. High end bars accepts over-the-counter cash tips in any amount. Massage parlous, which are located practically on every corner in Bali, expect 10%–20%. Taxi drivers expect 5%. Bellboys at high end hotels expect around $1 per bag.\n\nIn Malaysia tipping is not the norm and is not expected in any service. Instead restaurants can add a service charge of 10% to the bill. In Malaysia the people are familiar with tipping, so if a person does leave a tip then it is accepted and appreciated. When tipping occurs it is usually done by rounding up the bill.\n\nTipping is not customary in Korean culture, and tipping is not expected in general service industry. Some people even regard tipping as an inappropriate behavior. High-end hotels and restaurants often include service charge between 10% to 15%, but it is always included in the bill and customers are not expected to leave separate gratuity for servers beyond what is included in the bill.\n\nIn Singapore, tipping is not practiced and is rarely expected in most instances. However, bars and restaurants typically add a 10% service charge, which is compounded by the 7% Goods & Services Tax, although it is not given to the wait staff. Taxi drivers given a tip will mistake it for excess cash and return exact change.\n\nIn Taiwan, tipping is not customary, but all mid and high end restaurants include a mandatory \"10% service charge\", which is not given to the service staff, but rather considered by Taiwanese law as general revenue, as reported by the Taipei Times in \"False Gratuity\" on July 9, 2013.\n\nTipping (\"bakshish\") in Albania is very much expected almost everywhere. In recent times it has become more common, as many foreigners and Albanians living abroad visit Albania. Leaving a tip of around 10% of the bill is customary in restaurants; even porters, guides and chauffeurs expect tips. Duty-free alcohol is often used as a type of tip for porters, bellhops and the like, however some people (such as Muslims) can find it offensive.\n\nTipping is not required but often expected, particularly in restaurants where roughly 5 to 10% is common. This belongs to the service one got and the restaurant level (low, medium, high prices). In standard restaurants it is OK to round up to the next Euro. By tipping roughly 5% one can't be wrong in bars or restaurants. Taxi bills might be just rounded up to the next Euro. Another common setting where tipping is customary is taxis.\n\nEven though most people in the service industry are paid a living wage, tips (in Croatian: napojnica, manča) are quite common. 10% (or more, depending on the service) is expected in restaurants. Absence of a tip is generally interpreted as not being satisfied with the food and/or service. In clubs and café bars, it is common to round-up the bill (i.e. 10 if the bill is more than 5 kn, or 100 if the bill is 88 kn). Tips are always expected in cash, even when the bill is paid by a credit card, If you leave a tip with a credit card, please note that the employee does not receive any of it. It is not common to tip hairdressers, but the rounding-up method is common for taxi drivers.\n\nTips (\"drikkepenge\", lit. \"drinking money\") are not required in Denmark since service charges must always be included in the bill by law. Tipping for outstanding service is a matter of choice, but is not expected.\n\nIn Finland tipping is not customary and never expected.\n\nTipping in France is not required, and what you see on the menu is what you get charged. Waiters are paid a living wage and do not depend on tips. Cafés and restaurants include a 15% service charge on the bill, as required by French law for tax assessment. \"Service compris\" indicates that the tip has been added to the bill, but sometimes the wait staff do not receive any of it (it is split between the wait staff and sometimes the restaurant owner can keep a portion of it). Tipping is better received in venues accustomed to tourists, but can be treated with disdain in smaller food establishments and those in more rural areas. The amount of the tip is also critical. A 5% tip will do nicely for good service. For superior service in higher-end eating establishments, a more generous tip would not be out of place. However, the rare waiter/waitress accustomed to more generous foreign customers has no problem receiving a tip of up to 10% or more. A tip in cash rather than on a credit card may be preferred. Attending a performance in a private theater may be the only case in France where a tip is expected (generally €1), even though it is illegal.\n\nTipping (\"Trinkgeld\") is not seen as obligatory. In the case of waiting staff, and in the context of a debate about a minimum wage, some people disapprove of tipping and say that it should not substitute for employers paying a good basic wage. But most people in Germany consider tipping to be good manners as well as a way to express gratitude for good service.\n\nIt is illegal, and rare, to charge a service fee without the customer's consent. But a tip of about 5% to 10%, depending on the type of service, is customary. For example, Germans usually tip their waiters but almost never the cashiers at big supermarkets. As a rule of thumb, the more personal the service, the more common it is to tip. Payments by card can include the tip too, but the tip is usually paid in cash when the card is handed over.\n\nAt times, rather than tipping individually, a tipping box is set up. Rounding up the bill in Germany is commonplace, sometimes with the comment \"stimmt so\" (\"keep the change\"), rather than asking for all the change and leaving the tip afterwards. Or the customer says how much he will pay in total, including the tip: thus if the basic price is €10.50, the customer might, rather generously but not unusually, say \"zwölf\" (\"twelve\"), pay with a €20 note and get €8 in change. When paying a small amount, it is common to round up to the nearest euro (e.g. €1.80 to €2.00).\n\nSometimes a sign reading \"Aufrunden bitte\" (\"round up please\") is found in places where tipping is not common (like supermarkets, or clothing retailers). This requests that the bill be rounded up to the nearest €0.10. This is not to tip the staff, but a charity donation (fighting child poverty), and completely voluntary.\n\nIn Germany tips are considered as income, but they are tax free according to § 3 Nr. 51 of the German Income Tax Law.\n\nThe Hungarian word for tip is (literally \"money for wine\", a loose calque from ) or colloquially (from \"bakhshesh\"), often written in English as backsheesh. Tipping is widespread in Hungary; the degree of expectation and the expected amount varies with price, type and quality of service, and also influenced by the satisfaction of the customer. As in Germany, rounding up the price to provide a tip is commonplace.\n\nDepending on the situation, tipping might be unusual, optional or expected. Almost all bills include a service charge; similarly, some employers calculate wages on the basis that the employee would also receive tips, while others prohibit accepting them. In some cases a tip is only given if the customer is satisfied; in others it is customary to give a certain percentage regardless of the quality of the service; and there are situations when it is hard to tell the difference from a bribe. Widespread tipping based on loosely defined customs and an almost imperceptible transition into bribery is considered a main factor contributing to corruption. A particular example of a gratuity is (\"gratitude money\") or , which is the very much expected – almost obligatory even though illegal – tipping of state-employed physicians. (Hungary's healthcare system is almost completely state-run and there is an obligatory social insurance system.)\n\nIn Iceland tipping (\"þjórfé\", lit. \"serving money\") is not customary and never expected. Foreign tourists sometimes still tip without thinking because that is the custom in their home country. Tourist guides in Iceland also sometimes encourage their guests to tip them, but there is no requirement to do so.\n\nIt is uncommon for Irish people to tip taxi-drivers or cleaning staff at hotel. Tips are often given to reward high quality service or as a kind gesture. Tipping is most often done by leaving small change (5%–10%) at the table or rounding up the bill.\n\nAlthough it has been cited that tipping taxi drivers is typical, it is not common in practice.\n\nTips (\"la mancia\") are not customary in Italy, and are given only for a special service or as thanks for high quality service, but they are very uncommon. Almost all restaurants (with the notable exception of those in Rome) have a service charge (called \"coperto\" and/or \"servizio\"). As restaurants are required to inform you of any fees they charge, they usually list the \"coperto\"/\"servizio\" on the menu.\n\nTipping (\"fooi\") in the Netherlands is not obligatory; and it is illegal, and rare, to charge a service fee without the customer's consent. However tourists are made to believe that tipping is required in restaurants, bars, taxis and hotels (bar, restaurant, maids and bellboys). If service was normal or poor, it is normal not to tip, while guests who receive good to excellent service can tip in a 5%–15% range, with an average of 10%, and 20% if service was exceptionally good. Around 1970, regulations were adopted that all indicated prices must include a service charge. As a result, all prices were raised by about 15%. This was called \"service compris\". Also wages were adjusted so that employees were not dependent on tips.\n\nThe service charge is included in the bill. It is uncommon for Norwegians to tip taxi drivers or cleaning staff at hotels. In restaurants and bars it is more common, but not expected. Tips are often given to reward high quality service or as a kind gesture. Tipping is most often done by leaving small change (5%–15%) at the table or rounding up the bill.\n\n\"Oslo Servitørforbund\" and \"Hotell- og Restaurantarbeiderforbundet\" (The Labor Union for Hotel and Restaurant Employees) has said many times that they discourage tipping, except for extraordinary service, because it makes salaries decrease over time, makes it harder to negotiate salaries and does not count towards pensions, unemployment insurance, loans and other benefits.\n\nThe amount of the tip (\"bacşiş\") and method of calculating it will vary with the venue and can vary from 1–2 RON to 10% of the bill. The tips do not appear on bills and are not taxed. If paying by card, the tip is left in cash alongside the bill. While tipping is not the norm, servers, taxi drivers, hairdressers, hotel maids, parking valets, tour guides, spa therapists et al. are used to receiving tips regularly, and are likely to consider it an expression of appreciation for the quality of the service (or lack of it). If offering a tip, 5%–10% of the bill is customary, or small amounts of 5, 10 or 20 RON for services which are not directly billed. For other types of services it depends on circumstances; it will not usually be refused, but will be considered a sign of appreciation. For instance, counter clerks in drugstores or supermarkets are not tipped, but their counterparts in clothing stores can be.\n\nTipping can be used proactively to obtain favors, such as reservations or better seats. However, care should be taken for it not to be seen as a bribe, depending on circumstances. While tipping is overlooked in Romania, bribery is a larger issue which may have legal consequences. There is an ongoing aversion about both giving and receiving tips in coins, due to the low value of the denominations. It is best to stick to paper money. Offering coins can be considered a rude gesture and may prompt sarcastic or even angry remarks.\n\nOn the other hand, the coin handling aversion has resulted in the widespread practice of rounding payments. This is not technically a tip, and as such is not aimed primarily at the individual at the counter, but rather at the business. Nevertheless, if done with a smile it can be seen as a form of appreciation from the customer towards the clerk. Etiquette demands that one of the parties offers the change, but the other can choose to tell them to keep all or part of it. Small businesses may sometimes force the issue by just claiming they are out of change, or offering small value products instead, such as sticks of gum; this is considered rude and it is up to the customer to accept or call them out for it. The reverse can also happen, where the clerk does not have small change to make for the customer's paper money, but chooses to return a smaller paper denomination and round down in favor of the customer, in exchange for getting them through faster. The latter usually happens only in the larger store chains.\n\nIn Russian language a gratuity is called \"chayeviye\", which literally means \"for the tea\". Tipping small amounts of money in Russia for people such as waiters, cab drivers and hotel bellboys was quite common before the Communist Revolution of 1917. During the Soviet era, and especially with the Stalinist reforms of the 1930s, tipping was discouraged and was considered an offensive capitalist tradition aimed at belittling and lowering the status of the working class. So from then until the early 1990s tipping was seen as rude and offensive. With the fall of the Soviet Union and the dismantling of the Iron Curtain in 1991, and the subsequent influx of foreign tourists and businessmen into the country, tipping started a slow but steady comeback. Since the early 2000s tipping has become somewhat of a norm again. However, still a lot of confusion persists around tipping: Russians do not have a widespread consensus on how much to tip, for what services, where and how. In larger urban areas, like Moscow and St Petersburg, tips of 10% are expected in high-end restaurants, coffee shops, bars and hotels, and are normally left in cash on the table, after the bill is paid by credit card; or as part of cash payment if a credit card is not used. Tipping at a buffet or any other budget restaurant, where there are no servers to take your order at the table (called \"stolovaya\") is not expected and not appropriate. Fast food chains, such as McDonald's, Chaynaya Lozhka, Kartozhka and so on, do not allow tipping either. Tipping bartenders in a pub is not common, but it is expected in an up-market bar. Metered taxi drivers also count on a tip of 5%–10%, but non-metered drivers who pre-negotiate the fare do not expect one. It should also be noted that the older Russians, who grew up and lived most of their lives during the Soviet era, still consider tipping an offensive practice and detest it. In smaller rural towns, tipping is rarely expected and may even cause confusion.\n\nTipping is not common in Slovenia, and most locals do not tip other than to round up to the nearest euro. Since about 2007, areas visited by many tourists have begun to accept tips of around 10%–20%.\n\nTipping (\"propina\") is not generally considered mandatory in Spain, and depends on the quality of the service received. In restaurants the amount of the tip, if any, depends mainly on the kind of locale: higher percentages are expected in upscale restaurants. In bars and small restaurants, Spaniards sometimes leave as a tip the small change left on their plate after paying a bill. Outside the restaurant business, some service providers, such as taxi drivers, hairdressers and hotel personnel, may expect a tip in an upscale setting. In 2007 the Minister of Economy, Pedro Solbes, blamed excessive tipping for the increase in the inflation rate.\n\nTipping (\"dricks\") is commonly not expected, but is practiced to reward high quality service or as a kind gesture. Tipping is most often done by leaving small change on the table or rounding up the bill. This is mostly done at restaurants (less often if payment is made at the desk) and in taxis (some taxis are very expensive as there is no fixed tariff, so they might not be tipped). Less often hairdressers are tipped. Tips are taxed in Sweden, but cash tips are not often declared to the tax authority. Cards are heavily used in Sweden as of the 2010s, and tips paid by cards in restaurants are regularly checked by the tax authority.\n\nIn Turkey, tipping, or \"bahşiş\" (lit. gift, from the Persian word بخشش, often rendered in English as \"baksheesh\") is usually optional and not customary in many places. Though not necessary, a tip of 5%–10% is appreciated in restaurants, and is usually paid by \"leaving the change\". Cab drivers usually do not expect to be tipped, though passengers may round up the fare. A tip of small change may be given to a hotel porter.\n\nTipping is not expected in Britain the way it is in some other countries, however for the majority of people tipping is customary as a sign of appreciation. Workers don't officially have to rely on their tips to live and all staff in the UK must be paid at least the National Minimum Wage of £7.83. \n\nEmployers are also banned from topping up wages with tips from customers. However rounding up a bill is acceptable (but not required) at restaurants where you are served at the table, and also for barbers, hairdressers and taxi drivers.\n\nSometimes, more often in London than in other areas, or at expensive restaurants, a service charge may be included in the bill, or added separately. 12.5% is reported as a common amount. Since it is a legal requirement to include all taxes and other obligatory charges in the prices displayed, a service charge is compulsory only if it is displayed, or the trader makes it clear verbally, before the meal. Even so, if the level of service is unacceptable, and in particular it falls short of the requirements of the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982, the customer can refuse to pay some or all of a service charge.\n\nTipping is practiced in Canada in a similar manner to the United States. Quebec provides alternate minimum wage schedule for all tipped employees. Some other provinces allow alternate minimum wage schedule for \"liquor servers\". According to Wendy Leung from \"The Globe and Mail\", it is a common practice in restaurants to have servers share their tips with other restaurant employees, a process called \"tipping out.\" Another newspaper refers to this as a tip pool. \"Tipping out the house (the restaurant) is occasionally explained as a fee for covering breakage or monetary error[s].\"\n\nA Member of the Ontario Provincial Parliament, Michael Prue, has introduced a Bill in the Ontario Legislature regarding tipping. On December 7, 2015 it was reported that \"Ontario is banning employers from taking a cut of tips that are meant for servers and other hospitality staff.\" \"The \"Protecting Employees' Tips Act\" makes it illegal for employers \"...to withhold their employees' tips, except temporarily if they are pooling all of the gratuities to redistribute them among all employees.\"\n\nCanadian Federal tax law considers tips as income. Workers who receive tips are legally required to report the income to the Canada Revenue Agency and pay income tax on it. In July 2012, The Star reported that CRA is concerned with tax evasion. An auditing of 145 servers in four restaurants by CRA mentioned in the report uncovered that among 145 staff audited, CDN $1.7million was unreported. In 2005, The CRA was quoted that it will closely check the tax returns of individuals who would reasonably be expected to be receiving tips to ensure that the tips are reported realistically.\n\nTipping in the Caribbean varies from island to island. In the Dominican Republic, restaurants add a 10% gratuity and it is customary to tip an extra 10%. In St. Barths, it is expected that a tip be 10% to 15% if gratuity isn't already included.\n\nWorkers in small, economy restaurants usually do not expect a significant tip. However, tipping in Mexico is common in larger, medium and higher end restaurants. It is customary in these establishments to tip not less than 10% but not more than 15% of the bill as a voluntary offering for good service based on the total bill before value added tax, \"IVA\" in English, VAT. Value added tax is already included in menu or other service industry pricing since Mexican Consumer Law requires the exhibition of final costs for the customer. Thus, the standard tip in Mexico is 11.5% of the pre-tax bill which equates to 10% after tax in most of the Mexican territory, except in special lower tax stimulus economic zones.\n\nTips to taxi drivers is unusual in Mexico, but the workers use to ask for them to tourists, knowing that is common in other countries. Locally, you only type a taxi when he offers an extra service, like helping with the luggagge or similar help.\n\nA gratuity may be added to the bill without the customer's consent, contrary to the law, either explicitly printed on the bill, or by more surreptitious means alleging local custom, in some restaurants, bars, and night clubs. However, in 2012, officials began a campaign to eradicate this increasingly rampant and abusive practice not only due to it violating Mexican consumer law, but also because frequently it was retained by owners or management.\n\nIf a service charge for tip (\"propina\" or \"restaurant service charge\") is added, it is a violation of Article 10 of the Mexican Federal Law of the Consumer and Mexican authorities recommend patrons require management to refund or deduct this from their bill. Additionally, in this 2012 Federal initiative to eliminate the illegal add-ons, the government clarified that contrary even to the belief of many Mexicans, that the Mexican legal definition of tips (\"propinas\") require it be discretionary to pay so that an unsatisfied client is under no obligation to pay anything to insure the legal definition of a tip is consistent with the traditional, cultural definition, and going as far to encourage all victims subject to the increasing illicit practice report the establishments to the PROFECO, the Office of the Federal Prosecutor for the Consumer, for prosecution.\n\nTipping is a practiced social custom in the United States. Tipping by definition is voluntary – at the discretion of the customer. In restaurants offering traditional table service, a gratuity of 15–20% of the amount of a customer’s check is customary when adequate service is provided. In buffet-style restaurants where the server brings only beverages, 10% is customary. Higher tips may be given for excellent service, and lower tips for mediocre service. In the case of bad or rude service no tip may be given, and the restaurant manager may be notified of the problem. Tips are also generally given for services provided at golf courses, casinos, hotels, spas, salons, and for concierge services, food delivery, and taxis. This etiquette applies to bar service at weddings and any other event where one is a guest as well. The host should provide appropriate tips to workers at the end of an event; the amount may be negotiated in the contract.\n\nThe Fair Labor Standards Act defines tippable employees as individuals who customarily and regularly receive tips of $30 or more per month. Federal law permits employers to include tips towards satisfying the difference between employees' hourly wage and minimum wage. Federal minimum wage for tipped employees in the United States is $2.13 per hour, although some states and territories provide more generous provisions for tipped employees. For example, laws in Alaska, California, Minnesota, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Washington, and Guam specify that employees must be paid the full minimum wage of that state/territory (which is equal or higher than the federal minimum wage in these instances) before tips are considered.\n\nA tip pool cannot be allocated to employers, or to employees who do not customarily and regularly receive tips. These non-eligible employees include dishwashers, cooks, chefs, and janitors.\nThere is only limited information available on levels of tipping. A study at Iowa State University provided data for a suburban restaurant surveyed in the early 1990s. The mean tip was $3.00 on a mean bill of $19.78. As such, the mean tip rate was 16.1%, and the median tip rate was about 15%. In a 2003 research study at Brigham Young University, the sample restaurants had an average tip percentage ranging from 13.57 to 14.69% between 1999 and 2002. A 2001 study done at Cornell University exploring the relationship between tip amount and quality of service has shown that quality of service is only weakly related to the amount the server is tipped by the guest. This study suggests that servers who provide amazing service are tipped marginally better, if not better at all, than servers who provide standard service.\n\nAccording to the National Restaurant Association, only a handful of restaurants in the United States have adopted a no-tipping model and some restaurants who have adopted this model returned to tipping due to loss of employees to competitors.\n\nService charges are mandatory payments, typically added by caterers and banqueters. A service charge is not to be confused with a tip or gratuity which is optional and at the discretion of the customer. Restaurants commonly add it to checks for large parties. Some bars have decided to include service charge as well, for example in Manhattan, New York. Disclosure of service charge is required by law in some places, such as in State of Florida A standard predetermined percent, often ~18%, is sometimes labeled as a \"service charge\".\nUntil the early 20th century, Americans viewed tipping as inconsistent with the values of an egalitarian, democratic society. Also, proprietors regarded tips as equivalent to bribing an employee to do something that was otherwise forbidden, such as tipping a waiter to get an extra large portion of food. The introduction of Prohibition in 1919 had an enormous impact on hotels and restaurants, who lost the revenue of selling alcoholic beverages. The resulting financial pressure caused proprietors to welcome tips, as a way of supplementing employee wages. Contrary to popular belief, tipping did not arise because of servers' low wages, because the occupation of waiter (server) was fairly well paid in the era when tipping became institutionalized.\n\nIn spite of the trend toward tipping as obligatory behavior, six states, mainly in the South, passed laws that made tipping illegal. Enforcement of anti-tipping laws was problematic. The earliest of these laws was passed in 1909 (Washington), and the last of these laws was repealed in 1926 (Mississippi). Some have argued that \"The original workers that were not paid anything by their employers were newly freed slaves\" and that \"This whole concept of not paying them anything and letting them live on tips carried over from slavery.\"\n\nTips are considered income. The entire tip amount is treated as earned wages with the exception of months in which tip income was under $20. Unlike wages where payroll tax (social security and medicare tax) are split between employee and employer, the employee pays 100% of payroll tax on tip income and tips are excluded from worker's compensation premiums in most states. This discourages no-tip policies because employers would pay 7.65% additional payroll taxes and up to 9% worker's compensation premiums on higher wages in lieu of tips.\n\nResearch finds that consistent tax evasion by waitstaff due to fraudulent declaration is a concern in the US. According to the IRS, between 40% and 50% of tips to waiters are not reported for taxation. Employers are responsible for Federal Unemployment Insurance premiums on tips paid directly from customers to employees, and this encourages employers to collaborate in underreporting tips.\n\nThe U.S. Government recognizes tips as allowable expenses for federal employee travel. However, U.S. law prohibits federal employees from receiving tips under Standards of Ethical Conduct. Asking for, accepting or agreeing to take anything of value that influences the performance of an official act is not allowed. A 2011 rule issued by the US Department of Labor which prohibited employers from tip pooling employees who were paid at least the federal minimum wage and who don't “customarily and regularly” receive tips was repealed in 2018. Instead, workers will have more rights to sue their employers for stolen tips, with assistance from the US Department of Labor.\n\nService charges are included with the bill. A tip of around 5% or so is sometimes given, and is considered polite.\n\nService charges are included with the bill and tipping is uncommon.\n\nTipping is not expected or required in Australia. The minimum wage in Australia is reviewed yearly, and as of 2017 it was set at A$17.70 per hour (A$22.125 for casual employees) and this is fairly standard across all types of venues. Tipping at cafés and restaurants (especially for a large party), and tipping of taxi drivers and home food deliverers is again, not required or expected. However many people tend to round up the amount owed while indicating that they are happy to let the worker \"keep the change\".\n\nThere is no tradition of tipping somebody who is just providing a service (e.g. a hotel porter). Casinos in Australia—and some other places—generally prohibit tipping of gaming staff, as it is considered bribery. For example, in the state of Tasmania, the Gaming Control Act 1993 states in section 56 (4): \"It is a condition of every special employee's licence that the special employee must not solicit or accept any gratuity, consideration or other benefit from a patron in a gaming area\". There is concern that tipping might become more common in Australia.\n\nTipping is not a traditional practice in New Zealand, though has become less uncommon in recent years – especially in finer establishments. Tipping in New Zealand is likely the result of tourists visiting from tipping cultures (such as the United States of America) who may follow their own tipping customs. It is still extremely rare among locals, especially among the working and middle-class. It is expected that employers pay their staff fairly and the minimum wage is regularly raised with public pressure to ensure minimum wage employees have a reasonable standard of living with rising living costs and inflation. Where tipping does occur among New Zealanders it is usually to reward a level of service that is far in excess of the customer's expectations, or as an unsolicited reward for a voluntary act of service. A number of websites published by the New Zealand government advise tourists that \"tipping in New Zealand is not obligatory – even in restaurants and bars. However, tipping for good service or kindness is at the discretion of the visitor\". A Sunday Star-Times reader poll in 2011 indicated 90% of their readers did not want tipping for good service to become the norm in New Zealand.\n\nIn countries where tipping is the norm, such as in the US, Canada, and in a few countries in Western Europe, some employers pay workers with the expectation that their wages will be supplemented by tips. Some have criticized the inherent \"social awkwardness\" in transactions that involve tipping, the inconsistency of tipping for some services but not similar ones, and the irrationality of basing tips on price, rather than the amount and quality of service (a customer pays a larger tip to a server bringing them a lobster rather than a hamburger, for example). Also in countries where tips are not paid by most but where many do, managers tell new waiters that the salary might not be so high but there will be tips, meaning that waiters get little payment from those who do not pay tips.\n\nSome nationalities, such as people from the US, are used to paying tips, and often do so even when they visit countries where this is less of a norm. In contrast, tourists from such countries may neglect to pay tips when they visit countries such as the US where tips are expected.\n\nIn the Freakonomics blog entitled \"Should Tipping be Banned?\" Stephen Dubner and Steven Levitt discussed the issue of gratuities. The authors pointed out that research by Michael Lynn found that \"attractive waitresses get better tips than less attractive waitresses. Men’s appearance, not so important\". Lynn's research also found that \"blondes get better tips than brunettes. Slender women get better tips than heavier women. Large breasted women get better tips than smaller breasted women\". A woman server interviewed for the blog stated that she \"lost my job because my manager said that I didn’t fit the look of the company, or the restaurant. So I don’t know if it was because I’m a lot more curvier than the other girls or because my skin is darker. I don’t know\".\n\nLynn states of tipping: \"It’s discriminatory. Yes, and the Supreme Court has ruled that even neutral business practices that are not intended to discriminate, if they have the effect of adversely impacting a protected class are illegal. And so it’s not inconceivable to me that there will be a class-action lawsuit on the part of ethnic minority waiters and waitresses claiming discrimination in terms of employment. And it’s conceivable that tipping might be declared illegal on that basis\".\n\nTipping may not be expected when a fee is explicitly charged for the service. In countries such as Australia and Japan where no tipping is provided, the service is found to be as good as in America.\n\nA service charge is sometimes added to bills in restaurants and similar establishments. Attempts to hide service charge by obstructing the line on the receipt have been reported.\n\nIn the United States, criminal charges were dropped in two separate cases over non-payment of mandatory gratuities. Courts ruled that automatic does not mean mandatory. Some cruise lines charge their patrons $10/day in mandatory tipping; this does not include extra gratuities for alcoholic beverages.\n\nBribery and corruption are sometimes disguised as tipping. In some developing countries, police officers, border guards, and other civil servants openly solicit tips, gifts and dubious fees using a variety of local euphemisms.\n\nA 2009 academic paper by Steven Holland calls tipping \"an effective mechanism for risk sharing and welfare improvement\" which reduces the risk faced by a service customer, because the customer can decide whether or not to tip. Tipping is sometimes given as an example of the principal-agent problem in economics. One example is a restaurant owner who engages servers to act as agents on his behalf. In some cases, \"[c]ompensation agreements [can] increase worker effort [...] if compensation is [...] tied to the firm's success\" and one example of such a compensation agreement is waiters and waitresses who are paid tips. Studies show however that, in the real world, the size of the tip is only weakly correlated with the quality of the service and other effects dominate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "734489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=734489", "title": "Homecoming", "text": "Homecoming\n\nHomecoming is the tradition of welcoming back former students and members and celebrating an organization's existence. It is a tradition in many high schools, colleges, and churches in the United States and Canada.\n\nHomecoming (colloquially known as \"hoco\" or \"HoCo\" in some parts of the US) is an annual tradition in the United States. People, towns, high schools, and colleges come together, usually in late September or early October, to welcome back alumni and former residents. It is built around a central event, such as a banquet or dance and, most often, a game of American football, or, on occasion, basketball, ice hockey, or soccer. When celebrated by schools, the activities vary widely. However, they usually consist of a football game played on a school's home football field, activities for students and alumni, a parade featuring the school's choir, marching band, and sports teams, and the coronation of a homecoming queen (and at many schools, a homecoming king). A dance commonly follows the game or the day following the game. When attached to a football game, homecoming traditionally occurs on the team's return from the longest road trip of the season. The game itself, whether it be football or another sport, will typically feature the home team playing a considerably weaker opponent. The game is supposed to be an \"easy win\" and thus weaker schools will sometimes play lower division schools.\n\nThe tradition of homecoming has its origin in alumni football games held at colleges and universities since the 19th century. Many schools including Baylor, Southwestern, Illinois, and Missouri have made claims that they held the first modern homecoming. The NCAA, \"Trivial Pursuit\", \"Jeopardy!\", and references from the American TV drama \"NCIS\" give the title to the University of Missouri's 1911 football game during which alumni were encouraged to attend. It was the first annual homecoming centered on a parade and a football game.\n\nIn 1891, the Missouri Tigers first faced off against the Kansas Jayhawks in the first installment of the Border War, which was also the oldest college football rivalry west of the Mississippi River until the teams stopped playing each other in 2012. The intense rivalry originally took place at neutral sites, usually in Kansas City, Missouri, until a new conference regulation was announced that required intercollegiate football games to be played on collegiate campuses. To renew excitement in the rivalry, ensure adequate attendance at the new location, and celebrate the first meeting of the two teams on the Mizzou campus in Columbia, Missouri, Mizzou Athletic Director Chester Brewer invited all alumni to \"come home\" for the game in 1911. Along with the football game, the celebration included a parade and spirit rally with bonfire. The event was a success, with nearly 10,000 alumni coming home to take part in the celebration and watch the Tigers and Jayhawks play to a 3–3 tie. The Missouri annual homecoming, with its parade and spirit rally centered on a large football game is the model that has gone on to take hold at colleges and high schools across the United States.\n\nAt least two collegiate homecoming celebrations predate the University of Missouri football game homecoming event: Southwestern University, in Georgetown, TX and Baylor University, in Waco, TX. By multiple historical accounts, Southwestern held the first homecoming on record on Wednesday, April 21, 1909 in San Gabriel Park. Former students raised funds, provided homes, prepared and served a barbecue supper, and decorated the town buildings. Members of the senior class waited tables.\n\nNorthern Illinois University has one of the longest-celebrated homecoming traditions in the country. The alumni football game played on Oct. 10, 1903, began NIU's homecoming tradition.\n\nBaylor's homecoming history dates back to November 1909 and included a parade, reunion parties, and an afternoon football game (the final game of the 1909 season), a tradition that continued and celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2009. There was a gap between 1910 and 1915 when there was no homecoming event, however there has been continuity since 1915. \n\nThe University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign first held its homecoming event in 1910, celebrating the 100th anniversary in 2010. This event was held annually except for 1918, when it was cancelled because of the influenza epidemic.\n\nThe homecoming court is a representative group of students that, in a coeducational institution, consists of a king and queen, and possibly prince(s) and princess(es). In a single-sex institution, the homecoming court will usually consist of only a king and a prince (for an all-male school) or a queen and a princess (for an all-female school), although some schools may choose to join with single-gender schools of the other gender to elect the homecoming court jointly.\n\nGenerally, the king and queen are students completing their final years of study at their school (also called “seniors”), while the prince and princess are underclassmen, often with a prince/princess for each grade. Recently, some high schools have chosen to add categories, such as duke and duchess, to extend the representation of students to include a category in which students with special needs are elected. In high school, 17- or 18-year-old students in their final year are represented by a king or queen; in college, students who are completing their final year of study, usually between 21 and 23 years old.\n\nLocal rules determine when the homecoming king and queen are crowned. Sometimes, the big announcement comes at a pep rally, school assembly, or public ceremony one or more days before the football game. Other schools crown their royalty at the homecoming football game, a dance, or other school event.\n\nOften, the previous year's king and queen are invited back to crown their successors. If they are absent for whatever reason, someone else—usually, another previous king or queen, a popular teacher, or other designated person—will perform those duties. Usually, the queen is crowned first, followed by the king. The crowning method also varies by school.\n\nHomecoming court members who are not crowned king or queen are often called escorts or royalty. They are often expected to participate in the week's activities as well. At some schools, a homecoming prince/princess, duke/duchess, etc. (often underclassmen nominated by their classmates) are crowned along with the king and queen; sometimes, middle school and junior high students may partake in the high school activities.\nClassmates traditionally nominate students who have done a lot to contribute to their school, then students vote for members of the court from the nominees. Once the homecoming court candidates are announced, the entire student body votes for the queen and king. The voting is often conducted by secret ballot, but other methods may also be used by certain schools.\n\nMany homecoming celebrations include a parade. Students often select the grand marshal based on a history of service and support to the school and community. The parade includes the school's marching band and different school organizations’ floats created by the classes and organizations and most of the sports get a chance to be in the parade. Every class prepares a float which corresponds with the homecoming theme or related theme of school spirit as assign by school administrators. In addition, the homecoming court takes part in the parade, often riding together in one or more convertibles as part of the parade. Community civic organizations and businesses, area fire departments, and alumni groups often participate as well. The parade is often part of a series of activities scheduled for that specific day, which can also include a pep rally, bonfire, snake dance, and other activities for students and alumni.\n\nAt most major colleges and universities, the football game and preceding tailgate party are the most widely recognized and heavily attended events of the week. Alumni gather from all around the world to return to their alma mater, reconnect with one another, and take part in the festivities. Students, alumni, businesses, and members of the community set up tents in parking lots, fields, and streets near the stadium to cook food, play games, socialize, binge drink, and even enjoy live music in many instances. These celebrations often last straight through the game for those who do not have tickets but still come to take part in the socializing and excitement of the homecoming atmosphere. Most tents even include television or radio feeds of the game for those without tickets.\n\nSometimes during the school week, a picnic can occur. The picnic is very similar to the tailgate party, but it occurs after school or during the school's lunch period.\n\nThroughout the week, many schools (particularly high schools) engage in special dress-up days, sometimes called \"Spirit Week\", where students are allowed to wear clothing suitable to the theme (e.g., 80s day, toga day, roll out of bed day, cowboy day, nerd day, pirate day, meme day, Rat Pack Day, flannel Friday, What-not-to-wear Wednesday) leading to the homecoming. Students traditionally wear clothing with their school's name, or clothing and makeup of their school's colors on Friday.\n\nMany schools hold a rally during homecoming week, often one or more nights before the game. The events vary, but may include skits, games, introduction of the homecoming court (and coronation of the king and queen if that is the school's tradition), and comments from the football players or coach about the upcoming game.\n\nAt some schools, the homecoming rally ends with a bonfire (in which old wood structures, the rival school's memorabilia and other items are burned in a controlled fire.) Many colleges and high schools no longer hold bonfires because of accidents that have occurred surrounding these events in the past. The most well known accident took place in 1999, when 12 students were killed and 27 others were injured at Texas A&M University when a pile of logs that had been assembled for a bonfire collapsed. However, this incident was not associated with homecoming—A&M is one of the few schools that does not organize a homecoming, although it has many unique traditions. The bonfire was associated with the annual rivalry game between A&M and the University of Texas.\n\nThe alumni band consists of former college and university band members who return for homecoming to perform with the current marching band (usually made up from recent graduates to members who graduated years or decades before) either during halftime as a full band or a featured section, e.g. the trumpet section or the tubas and drumline squads, as well as performing with the current band during the post game concert.\n\nThe homecoming dance—usually the culminating event of the week (for high schools)—is a formal or informal event, either at the school or an off-campus location. The venue is decorated, and either a disc jockey or band is hired to play music. In many ways, it is a fall prom. Homecoming dances could be informal as well just like standard school dances. At high schools, the homecoming dances are sometimes held in the high school gymnasium or outside in a large field. Homecoming dance attire is less formal than prom. Females generally wear knee length dresses with their hair down, and males generally wear a tucked in dress shirt with pants. At prom, females generally wear a more formal gown that goes to the ground with hair up, and males wear suits and tuxedos.\n\nSince most colleges are too large to facilitate a campus-wide dance, these events are usually handled instead by student organizations such as fraternities, sororities, and residential colleges. Because football and alumni events are the focal points of collegiate homecoming, dances often take place during a different week when schedules are more permitting, or not at all.\n\nAt the high school level, students generally compete by grade level in events such as the spirit days, parade floats, and powder puff football. The competition at the collegiate level is mainly between Greek-letter organizations and, to a lesser degree, residence halls. At most larger schools, fraternities and sororities compete on parade floats, house decorations, skits, talent competitions, and even service events such as blood drives or food drives. Sometimes on coronation night, some schools have games that they play between classes. Such events include the pyramid, the 3 legged race, the pop chug, and tug of war.\n\nWhile most schools schedule their homecoming activities around football, smaller schools that do not field a football team may plan the annual event at another time of the year. In these instances, basketball, ice hockey or soccer serves as the \"big game\" for students and alumni. Often in smaller towns with smaller populations, the parade is omitted.\n\nAt schools without athletic programs, the centerpiece event is usually a banquet, where alumni are recognized. This format is also used for alumni events of high schools that have either closed or consolidated with other high schools; the high school classes continue to meet and celebrate their years at their now-defunct alma mater. In other cases, alumni of closed schools will participate with the consolidated school's homecoming, where special recognition is often given for alumni of the once-separate schools.\n\nIn some parts of the country, high school basketball has gained a homecoming celebration of its own. Often referred to as \"winter homecoming\", \"hoopcoming\", \"coronation\", \"snowcoming\", \"Colors Day,\" or c\"ourtwarming\" (the latter is especially prominent in parts of Missouri), it usually includes rallies, dress-up days, special dinners, king and queen coronations, and other winter-friendly activities typically associated with football homecoming.\n\nCanadian homecoming weekends are often centred on a football game.\n\nIn Newfoundland and Labrador, communities have a \"Come Home Year\" where people who have moved away from their town come back from across Canada. In 2000, there was a provincial \"Come Home Year\", where many people came back to visit their various communities.\n\nHomecomings largely only exist among high schools in eastern Canada, and are uncommon at that. Newmarket High School, London South Collegiate Institute, Banting Memorial High School and Earl Haig Secondary School are examples of known schools in Ontario to arrange homecomings. Upper Canada College also has a longstanding homecoming tradition, although the event is referred to as \"A-Day\" (Association Day).\n\nThe term \"homecoming\" can also refer to the special services conducted by some religious congregations, particularly by many smaller American Protestant churches, to celebrate church heritage and welcome back former members or pastors. They are often held annually, but are sometimes held as one-time-only events, to celebrate the occasion.\n\n"}
{"id": "18987141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18987141", "title": "Incense in China", "text": "Incense in China\n\nIncense in China is traditionally used in a wide range of Chinese cultural activities including, religious ceremonies, ancestor veneration, traditional medicine, and in daily life. Known as \"xiang\" (), incense was used by the Chinese cultures starting from Neolithic times with it coming to greater prominence starting from the Xia, Shang, and Zhou dynasties.\n\nOne study shows that during the Han Dynasty (206 BC – AD 220) there was increased trade and acquisitions of more fragrant foreign incense materials when local incense materials were considered \"poor man's incense\".\n\nIt reached its height during the Song Dynasty with its nobility enjoying incense as a popular cultural pastime, to the extent of building rooms specifically for the use of incense ceremonies.\n\nBesides meaning \"incense\", the Chinese word \"xiang\" () also means \"fragrance; scent; aroma; perfume; spice\". The sinologist and historian Edward H. Schafer said that in medieval China:\n\nWords meaning \"censer; incense burner\" are compounds of \"lu\" ( or ) \"brazier; stove; furnace\", which was a category of ancient Chinese bronzes. \"Xianglu\" (香爐, with \"incense\") means \"incense burner; censer\" in general. \"Xunlu\" (熏爐, with \"smoke; fumigate; cure (food) with smoke\", or 薰爐, with \"fragrance (of plants); an aromatic grass, \"Eupatorium fortunei\"\") means \"small censer, esp. for fumigating or scenting clothing\". \"Shoulu\" (手爐, with \"hand\") means \"hand-held censer; handwarmer; portable charcoal stove\".\n\nThe \"boshanlu\" (博山爐 \"universal mountain censer\"), which became popular during the era of Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141 - 87 BC), displayed a microcosmic sacred mountain (esp. Mount Kunlun or Mount Penglai). These elaborate censers were designed with apertures that made rising incense smoke appear like clouds or mist swirling around a mountain peak.\n\nSimilar ingredients and processing techniques are involved in production of both incense and Traditional Chinese medicines. For example, take \"jiu\" (灸 \"moxibustion\"). Incense is believed to have physiological and psychological benefits. For instance, according to the \"Bencao Gangmu\" pharmacopoeia, \"camphor cured evil vapors in heart and belly, and was especially recommended for eye troubles, including cataract.\"\n\nAlong with the introduction of Buddhism in China came calibrated incense sticks and incense clocks (\"xiangzhong\" 香鐘 \"incense clock\" or \"xiangyin\" 香印 \"incense seal\"). The poet Yu Jianwu (庾肩吾, 487-551) first recorded them: \"By burning incense we know the o'clock of the night, With graduated candles we confirm the tally of the watches.\" The use of these incense timekeeping devices spread from Buddhist monasteries into secular society.\n\n\"Xiangbang\" (香棒, with \"stick; club\") means \"incense stick; joss stick\". Two \"incense\" synonyms specifying religious offerings to ancestors or deities are \"gāoxiāng\" (高香, \"high incense\") and \"gōngxiāng\" (供香, \"offering incense\").\n\nThe Sunni Muslim Hui Gedimu and the Yihewani burned incense during worship. This was viewed as Daoist or Buddhist influence. The Hui, also known as \"White-capped HuiHui\", used incense during worship, while the Salar, also known as \"black-capped HuiHui\" considered this to be a heathen ritual and denounced it.\n\nThe Chinese developed a sophisticated art form with incense burning like with tea and calligraphy called xiangdao (香道). It involves various paraphernalia and utensils in various ceramic containers utilised to burn incense. Examples include tongs, spatulas, special moulds to create ideograms with incense powder, etc. all placed on a special small table. It is most often used as an enhancement to a personal space to accompany other arts such as tea drinking and guqin playing.\n\nBamboo species with good burning characteristics are harvested and dried. The most common type of bamboo used for producing the sticks is \"Phyllostachys heterocycla cv. pubescens\" (茅竹,江南竹) since this species produces thick wood and easily burns to ashes in the incense stick. Other types of bamboos such as \"Phyllostachys edulis\" (毛竹) may be used, however due to their fiberous surfaces or relatively thin wood producing good bamboo sticks is more difficult. Longer incense stick are produced using cao bamboo(草竹).\n\nThe dried bamboo poles of around 10 cm in diameter are first manually trimmed to length, soak, peeled, and then continuously split in halves until thin sticks of bamboo with square cross sections of less than 3mm width have been produced. This process has largely been replaced by machines in modern incense production.\n\nChinese incense is made from diverse ingredients with much overlap into the traditional Chinese herbal pharmacopoeia. Of all the incense ingredients some of the most commonly used include:\n\nThe dried powdered bark of \"Persea nanmu\"(楠木皮) is used extensively for its mucilaginous qualities, which helps to bind the other powdered ingredients together.\n\nIncense powder is formed into the final product through various methods.\n\nIncense powder is tossed over wet sticks\n\nIncense paste is kneaded around sticks.\n\nFor large incense pillars, incense paste is piled around a single bamboo stick and sculpted to shape\n\nIncense paste is extruded and wound to produce spiral incense\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5018469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5018469", "title": "Inno Nazionale della Repubblica", "text": "Inno Nazionale della Repubblica\n\n\"Inno Nazionale\" is the national anthem of the Republic of San Marino. It was written by Federico Consolo, an Italian violinist and composer, and replaced Giubilanti d'amore fraterno as the national anthem in 1894. This national anthem is one of a few without official lyrics (along with Spain, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Kosovo), and is therefore simply called \"Inno Nazionale\" (National anthem). It is little known and scarcely heard, but the \"Inno Nazionale\" is regularly played in the streets of the City of San Marino by the musicians of the Sammarinese Armed Forces during national and religious festivals.\n"}
{"id": "362258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362258", "title": "It's Garry Shandling's Show", "text": "It's Garry Shandling's Show\n\nIt's Garry Shandling's Show is an American sitcom that was initially broadcast on Showtime from 1986 to 1990. It was created by Garry Shandling and Alan Zweibel. The series is notable for breaking the fourth wall.\n\nThe 30-minute series stars Garry Shandling as, more or less, himself: A neurotic, somewhat self-obsessed stand-up comedian who just happens to be aware he is a television sitcom character. Garry spends just as much time interacting with the studio audience as he does the regular cast members, offering up opening monologues and show-closing summations of the episode's events (much like George Burns on \"The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show\"). However, on Garry's show, all the supporting characters know they are on a TV show, not just Garry; and the studio audience is often in the storyline.\n\nAt the time of the series' production, Shandling actually lived in Sherman Oaks, California, just like the character on the series. His condominium on the series was styled to be just like his real-life condo, down to the room layout and the furnishings.\n\nStorylines were often manipulated by Shandling to create more favorable outcomes or simply to speed things along. One episode ended years later, for example. Another allowed Shandling to tell the audience that time had passed in order to console an angry neighbor whose wall he had damaged; by the time the scene transitioned, the workmen had already fixed the wall. On America's presidential election night in 1988, Showtime presented a live episode wherein Shandling brought in \"Soul Train\" host Don Cornelius to incorrectly announce that Michael Dukakis had soundly defeated George H. W. Bush.\n\nThe series' theme song was \"This is the Theme to Garry's Show\", sung by Los Angeles musician Bill Lynch. The song's lyrics are self-referential, explaining how the song came to be (\"Garry called me up and asked if I would write his theme song\") and asking what the listener thinks of it.\n\nConsidered a critical and niche success, \"It's Garry Shandling's Show\" ran 72 episodes and was on the air for four seasons (1986–1990). The show was later picked up by the broadcast Fox network from 1988 to 1990 as part of its Sunday night lineup with minor cuts for language and advertising breaks; Fox began airing the show from the beginning, but due to longer seasons for network shows versus cable, had caught up by the time the show left Fox in March 1990. New episodes continued for a few months thereafter on Showtime. The show introduced much of the country to Shandling and paved the way for his more successful run as Larry Sanders on HBO's \"The Larry Sanders Show\".\n\nThroughout the series, the cast was divided into the \"Starring\" cast, whose names were featured in the opening credits; the \"Co-Starring\" cast and the \"Guest Starring\" cast, both of which had the actors' names featured in the end credits.\n\n\n\nWhile fighting ovarian cancer, Gilda Radner guest-starred as herself in the series in 1988 in what would be her final television appearance. When Shandling asked her why she had not been seen on television for a while, Radner replied, \"Oh, I had cancer. What did \"you\" have?\"\n\nIn the United States, the series aired on Showtime: The first season aired on Wednesdays and the rest of the series aired on Sundays. It was originally picked up for 6 episodes. After the success of them, Showtime ordered 12 more (although only 10 were produced).\n\nTo bolster its Sunday night lineup, Fox secured the rights to air reruns of \"It's Garry's Shandling's Show\" not long after they aired on Showtime. The reruns aired Sundays on Fox at 9:00–9:30 from March 1988 to July 1989, at 9:30–10:00 in July 1989, at 10:00–10:30 from July to August 1989, and at 10:30–11:00 from August 1989 to March 1990.\n\nThe series was aired in the United Kingdom on BBC Two from 1987 to 1990.\n\nThe series was nominated for four Primetime Emmy Awards. It won five CableACE Awards (three for Best Comedy Series and two for Garry Shandling). It won an American Comedy Award for Funniest Male Performance in a Comedy Series-Cable or Syndicated, and an award for Outstanding Achievement in Comedy in 1988 from the Television Critics Association.\n\nOn October 20, 2009, Shout! Factory released \"It's Garry Shandling's Show: The Complete Series\" on DVD in Region 1. The 16-disc set features extensive bonus features including featurettes, commentaries and outtakes. \"Time\" praised the set's release, writing \"As self-referential comedies went, you never meta better one,\" while \"Entertainment Weekly\" named it one of the best TV on DVD releases of 2009. The first season of the series was released as a standalone title in America in April 2010.\n\nIn Region 2, Fabulous Films has released the first two seasons on DVD in the UK.\n\nIn Region 4, Shock Entertainment has released all 4 seasons on DVD in Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "12276292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12276292", "title": "Joseíto Fernández", "text": "Joseíto Fernández\n\nJosé Fernández Díaz (September 5, 1908 – October 11, 1979), commonly known as Joseíto Fernández, was a Cuban singer and songwriter. He is the writer of well-known songs, including \"Elige tú, que canto yo\", \"Amor de madre\", \"Demuéstrame tú\", and \"Así son, boncó\", as well as the most famous \"Guajira Guantanamera\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28111496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28111496", "title": "Juan E. Mestas", "text": "Juan E. Mestas\n\nDr. Juan E. Mestas was formerly the deputy chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) and the former chancellor of the University of Michigan-Flint.\n\nPreviously Mestas taught at Portland State University, and before that he was director of Educational Access Services, director of Educational Opportunity Programs and associate director of Student Development Programs at California State University. He has coordinated leadership programs sponsored by the American Council on Education (ACE); served as an ACE/Pew fellow at the University of Pennsylvania; directed San Jose State University's Upward Bound Program, which the U.S. Department of Education considered one of the nation's most successful college preparatory programs for economically disadvantaged and academically underprepared high school students; and chaired the Puerto Rican Studies Program at the State University of New York/Stony Brook. Author of El pensamiento social de Jose Martí: ideología y cuestión obrera (Madrid: Editorial Pliegos, 1993), he holds a Ph.D. and an M.A. from SUNY/Stony Brook in Hispanic languages and literature and a B.A. from Universidad de Puerto Rico in Hispanic studies.\n"}
{"id": "43616599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43616599", "title": "Kill the Moon", "text": "Kill the Moon\n\n\"Kill the Moon\" is the seventh episode of the eighth series of the British science fiction television programme \"Doctor Who\", written by Peter Harness and directed by Paul Wilmshurst. The episode stars Peter Capaldi and Jenna Coleman, with Hermione Norris guest starring, and was first broadcast on BBC One on 4 October 2014. The episode received polarising reviews from television critics. Whilst some critics acclaimed the episode and labelled it the best of the season, others criticised its scientific inaccuracy and thematic content.\n\nAfter the events of \"The Caretaker\", Clara Oswald warns the Doctor that her student, Courtney Woods, is still interested in his TARDIS and is trying to clean up the mess inside it she made previously. As they enter the TARDIS, the Doctor stops Courtney from cleaning and offers to take her and Clara on a trip in the time machine.\n\nThey arrive in 2049 aboard a space shuttle filled with nuclear devices on a crash course for Earth's moon. They survive and meet the shuttle's crew, led by Captain Lundvik. Lundvik explains they are on a suicide mission to destroy the moon; some years past, the moon's gravitation influence suddenly changed, causing massive high tides on Earth wiping out much of humanity, and destabilising the orbit of many of mankind's artificial satellites. Lundvik, who had wanted to become one of Earth's space-faring astronauts, offered to go on this mission to save humanity. Privately, Clara asks the Doctor about this point in time, knowing the moon exists in Earth's future, but the Doctor himself is not clear, as this is a point of time in flux.\n\nThey travel to a nearby Mexican lunar colony, finding it covered in cobwebs and the colonists dead, entombed in similar webbing. The Doctor confirms the colony's readings that the moon has gained over one billion tons of additional mass. They are attacked by a spider-like creature that kills Lundvik's crew, but the disinfecting spray Courtney brought kills the creature; the Doctor compares it to germs, and wants to study it further. After seeing Courtney safe to the TARDIS, they investigate a crevasse where thousands of the spider-like creature wait, and the presence of amniotic fluid nearby. The Doctor surprises Clara and Lundvik by diving into the crevasse, promising to meet them later.\n\nThe shuttle, with the TARDIS inside, fall into a crack. The Doctor returns and the three take shelter at the colony. The Doctor asserts that the moon is really a giant, 100-million-year-old egg, ready to hatch, the spiders being the equivalent of sterilising microbes on its surface. The Doctor gets Courtney to join them in the TARDIS. Lundvik becomes even more insistent to blow up the moon, unsure of the nature of the creature that might hatch, which angers the Doctor. The Doctor takes the TARDIS and abandons the three of them, but assures he will be back once they have made a decision. Lundvik prime a remote trigger for the nuclear bombs set on a timer, intent on finishing her mission. Lundvik, Clara, and Courtney argue what to do, and come to a conclusion to let the population of Earth decide. As shown \"in medias res\" at the start of the episode, Clara makes a plea over broadcast channels for Earth to decide the fate of the creature by leaving their lights on to allow the creature to live, or turning off their lights if they should destroy it. Over the next hour, they witness the lights on Earth turn off. Clara changes her mind at the last second and manages to stop the countdown on the remote detonator. Shortly thereafter the Doctor arrives, assured that they have made the right choice, and evacuates them from the moon as it starts to crumble.\n\nSafely on Earth, they watch as the winged creature inside the moon breaks free of the shell and flies off, but not before laying another egg that becomes a replacement moon for Earth. The Doctor reveals that the sudden interest in the moon will reinvigorate Earth's space program, and Lundvik will get the opportunity to realise her dream. The Doctor returns Courtney and Clara to their rightful time; Clara angrily accosts the Doctor for forcing her to make the decision on the fate of humanity, while the Doctor asserts he cannot be allowed to make those choices himself. Clara tells the Doctor she does not want to see him again, and takes comfort with Danny Pink, though Danny sees she is still not ready to forget the Doctor. Clara returns to her flat that evening and looks reflectively at the moon.\n\nThe Doctor uses a yo-yo to test the moon's gravity inside the shuttle. The Fourth Doctor used the same method to test gravity in the Nerva space station in \"The Ark in Space\" (1975). According to executive producer Brian Minchin, Capaldi had requested the yo-yo to be similar to the one that Tom Baker had used before.\n\nThe Doctor tells Clara that \"Earth isn't my home\", echoing the Fourth Doctor's statement in \"Pyramids of Mars\" (1975) that \"The Earth isn't my home, Sarah. I'm a Time Lord. I walk in eternity.\"\n\nIn \"The Fires of Pompeii\" (2008), the Tenth Doctor says that as a Time Lord, he can see both fixed and mutable points in time. The Twelfth Doctor says the same thing here, but that there are \"grey areas\", points in time for which he cannot see the outcome.\n\nThe Doctor claims that Courtney will meet \"this bloke called Blinovitch\". This refers to the Blinovitch Limitation Effect, first mentioned in the Third Doctor story \"Day of the Daleks\" (1972).\n\nThe episode was originally written for Matt Smith's Eleventh Doctor. An early working title for the episode was \"Return to Sarn\", however, this was intended to be misleading. While briefing Harness on how to write the script, executive producer Steven Moffat told him to \"Hinchcliffe the shit out of it for the first half\", meaning, essentially, to make it frightening. This was in reference to Philip Hinchcliffe, who produced \"Doctor Who\" from 1974–77, a period known as especially frightening during the classic series. Moffat called the script \"intense and emotional\". Harness has said that the episode will see a large change for the show. \"I still don’t know how people will take it. I’m in this kind of limbo now waiting for people to see it, and I’ve no idea, really I do not know how it is going to go down.\"\n\nFilming for the episode took place in Lanzarote, near the Volcán del Cuervo (Raven's Volcano) in Timanfaya National Park. The last episode to be filmed there was 1984's Fifth Doctor serial \"Planet of Fire\". Filming took place on 12–13 May, while the park was closed to visitors, with locals reporting that “they’ve erected a huge marquee, have trailers, toilets and a van.” Filming also took place at Aberavon Beach in Port Talbot on 21 May.\n\nTony Osoba previously appeared in the classic serials \"Destiny of the Daleks\" (1979) and \"Dragonfire\" (1987).\n\nThe overnight viewing figures were estimated at 4.81 million. The episode was watched by a total of 6.91 million viewers. On BBC America, 0.94 million viewers watched the original broadcast. \nThe episode received an AI score of 82.\n\n\"The A.V. Club\" labelled the episode an instant classic, and \"Den of Geek\" called it one of the show's very best, while \"Forbes\" found it poorly written with weak characters and themes. However, critics were unanimous in their acclaim for Jenna Coleman's performance and the final sequence in the TARDIS.\n\nWriting for \"The Daily Telegraph\", Ben Lawrence noted that \"'Kill the Moon' was an excellent example of \"Doctor Who\" reaching out to different generations, something it hasn't always done in recent weeks.\" He felt Coleman was \"terrific\" and that Capaldi added further layers of complexity to his character. Lawrence stated that the guests were underdeveloped, but concluded that, \"it lacked the clever-cleverness that has marred recent episodes and proved how good \"Doctor Who\" can be when it simply tells a story.\" Dan Martin, writing for \"The Guardian\", stated that \"Clara's outburst was the next stage in what I have loved about this series most of all. More than ever before, they're playing out the reality of running off to fight aliens with a time-travelling space detective. And, guess what, this life is not all wine and roses.\" Martin noted that Coleman has been terrific all series stating that \"We no longer need to make note of just how good Jenna is this year; she’s already established herself in pantheon of all-time great companions.\"\n\nWriting in \"The Independent\", Neela Debnath praised Coleman's performance, articulating that she \"impressed again with her fury as she held the Doctor to account. This is the grown up assistant the Time Lord needs to keep him in check\" and ultimately closed her review by saying \"'Kill the Moon' was an enclosed space adventure with all the claustrophobia that an episode like this demands [...] It was hardly the strongest episode of the series but it was no car crash either.\". \"Radio Times\" heavily praised the episode, awarding it a perfect 5/5. They also praised Coleman's performance, stating that \"Coleman expertly conveys Clara’s terrible dilemma – and later her tearful fury at the Doctor’s behaviour\". They described the episode's writing as \"audacious, highly imaginative, and is well matched by Paul Wilmshurst’s supremely eerie, cinematic direction\", and closed their review by noting \"Portentous dialogue, sharp direction, urgent music and a powerhouse performance from Peter Capaldi make this one of the defining moments of the season\".\n\nDen of Geek affirmed that \"\"Doctor Who\" hits top form with 'Kill the Moon'. And Jenna Coleman has never been better\". They also praised Harness' script as \"impressive\" and said that Wilmshurst \"fully understands that slowing things down and making little moments count is the key to crawling under people's skins\". They closed their review by saying \"The best \"Doctor Who\" episodes have something to say, get under your skin, and keep you pretty much gripped until the end credits roll. 'Kill the Moon' certainly did that, with us heading for a rewatch as soon as it was done. It has a good science fiction story underneath it, a strong dilemma, and real consequences\". The A.V. Club also reacted very positively to the episode, awarding it an A score praising almost every aspect of the episode, but particularly the focus on character development. They said \"'Kill the Moon' is the second time this season that \"Doctor Who\" has genuinely surprised me. That fact, above all else, is why tonight’s episode rates as an instant classic\" and went on to praise the episode's final scene, saying that \"Maybe the whole Moffat era is going to be defined by that final scene in the TARDIS, in which Clara delivers the most blistering rebuke we have ever seen any companion give the Doctor\". They ended their review by claiming that \"This season is already a return to form, but 'Kill the Moon' could help turn it into something truly special\".\n\nIGN labeled the episode as \"The best Capaldi Who yet\" and awarded it a score of 9.3/10, deemed \"Excellent\", They praised almost every aspect of the episode, saying \"Dramatic, thought-provoking, gorgeously shot, dryly hilarious and consistently compelling, 'Kill the Moon' was easily the best episode of the season so far, and we'd even put good money on it staying that way come the end of November\". They also praised Coleman's performance as \"explosive and mouth-gapingly compelling\" and summarised the episode as \"grown-up sci-fi at its best\".\n\nIn contrast, some reviewers criticised what they perceived to be plot elements alluding to the abortion debate and, moreover, how the issue was dealt with in the script. In a separate review for \"The Independent\", Ellen E. Jones described the episode as \"perhaps the weakest so far... The grey moon surface provided an uninspiring backdrop for what amounted to a galactic metaphor for the pro-choice debate\". Writing for \"Forbes\", Ewan Spence described the script as \"leaden and heavy... the lack of consequences to [Clara's] decision left the episode with a hollow ring.\" The review praised Capaldi's and Coleman's performances, but concluded that \"'Kill the Moon' wasn't good drama, it delivered false controversy, and it did not respect the debate it was trying to start in the viewers at home.\"\n\nFor \"The Escapist\", Elizabeth Harper gave the episode one and a half stars and felt it was \"a mess of pseudoscience\". She summarised that \"This episode is a string of scenes that don't make a lot of sense, but are vaguely held together by virtue of the fact that they all happen on the same channel in the same one-hour period.\" She added finally that \"The last scene, however, is genuinely good.\"\n\nOther reviews were also critical of the episode's lack of scientific accuracy, mainly around Earth's moon. Writing for \"Slate\", Phil Plait remarked, \"The science mistakes were so egregious and so obvious that they kept pulling me right out of the story. A lot of the mistakes were fixable with a simple Google search.\" In his review for Doctor Who TV, Clint Hassell had a similar objection. While he praised both the actors' performances and the story's ability to \"examine aspects of the human condition\", he said the episode was \"also terrible, presenting a version of science so incorrect that it almost creates a new genre – 'not-so-science fiction'\". Though part of the fun of the show is \"obviously make-believe, sciencey-wiencey facts and jargon\", he believed that, \"When [The Doctor] states blatantly wrong science 'facts' because the writer couldn’t be bothered to think rationally, or consult a scientist, that makes the Doctor look like an idiot, and...ruins part of the believability of the show.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "43753948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43753948", "title": "Kirby Buckets", "text": "Kirby Buckets\n\nKirby Buckets, also known as Kirby Buckets Warped for the third season, is an American adventure television series that aired on Disney XD from October 20, 2014 to February 2, 2017. Although a live-action series, the series also includes animated cartoon sequences of Kirby's drawings. The series stars Jacob Bertrand, Olivia Stuck, Mekai Curtis, Cade Sutton, and Tiffany Espensen.\n\nKirby Buckets dreams of becoming a famous animator like his idol, Mac McCallister, and interacts with his cartoon creations. Similar to Nicholas Martin in \"McGee and Me!\", Kirby sees his drawings take shape as he and his two best friends, Fish and Eli, go on outrageous and unpredictable adventures.\n\nIn the third season, Kirby is sued by Dawn and forbidden from drawing ever again. During a trip to the principal's office he finds a small orb device which allows him to travel to alternate realities. Using it, Kirby accidentally sends his parents to an alternate dimension, and picks up their counterparts from a \"Mad Max\"-like universe. Now Kirby must find his parents, while having a little fun along the way.\n\n\n\nDisney XD first developed and piloted \"Kirby Buckets\" in 2012 with producers Gabe Snyder and Mike Alber, David Bowers, and Kristofor Brown. \"Kirby Buckets\" was picked up as a series in February 2014. Production started in summer 2014 set for a fall 2014 premiere. On January 13, 2015, the series was renewed for a second season with production resuming in March. The second season premiered on October 7, 2015. On March 4, 2016, Disney XD renewed the series for a third season. The third season premiered on January 16, 2017.\n\n\"Kirby Buckets\" premiered on Disney XD in Australia on April 11, 2015, and in New Zealand on April 14, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "1182490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1182490", "title": "Learning sciences", "text": "Learning sciences\n\nLearning sciences (LS) is an interdisciplinary field that works to further scientific understanding of learning as well as to engage in the design and implementation of learning innovations, and the improvement of instructional methodologies. Research in the learning science traditionally focuses on cognitive-psychological, social-psychological, and cultural-psychological foundations of human learning, as well as on the design of learning environments. Major contributing fields include cognitive science, computer science, educational psychology, anthropology, and applied linguistics. Over the past decade, researchers have also expanded their focus to the design of curricula, informal learning environments, instructional methods, and policy innovations.\n\nAs an emerging discipline, the learning sciences are still in the process of defining itself. Accordingly, the identity of the field is multifaceted, and varies from institution to institution. However, the International Society of Learning Sciences (ISLS, ) summarizes the field as follows: \"Researchers in the interdisciplinary field of learning sciences, born during the 1990s, study learning as it happens in real-world situations and how to better facilitate learning in designed environments – in school, online, in the workplace, at home, and in informal environments. Learning sciences research may be guided by constructivist, social-constructivist, socio-cognitive, and socio-cultural theories of learning.\" ISLS has a large worldwide membership, is affiliated with two international journals: \"Journal of the Learning Sciences\", and \"International Journal of Computer Supported Collaborative Learning\", and sponsors the biennial Computer Supported Collaborative Learning conference and International Conference of the Learning Sciences on alternate years.\n\nAlthough controlled experimental studies and rigorous qualitative research have long been employed in learning science, LS researchers often use design-based research methods. Interventions are conceptualized and then implemented in natural settings in order to test the ecological validity of dominant theory and to develop new theories and frameworks for conceptualizing learning, instruction, design processes, and educational reform. LS research strives to generate principles of practice beyond the particular features of an educational innovation in order to solve real educational problems, giving LS its interventionist character.\n\nSeveral significant events have contributed to the international development of learning science. Perhaps the earliest history can be traced back to the cognitive revolution.\n\nIn the United States, an important effort to create a graduate program in learning science took place in 1983 when Jan Hawkins and Roy Pea proposed a joint program between Bank Street College and the New School for Social Research. Called \"Psychology, Education, and Technology\" (PET), the program had a planning grant supported by the Sloan Foundation. In the end the program would have required new faculty, though, and the institutions involved never established such a program. Roger Schank's arrival at Northwestern University in 1988 helped start the Institute for Learning Sciences. In 1991, Northwestern initiated the first learning science doctoral program, designed by and launched by Roy Pea as its first director. The program began accepting students in 1992, and after Pea became dean the program directorship was taken over by Brian Reiser. Since that time, a number of other high quality graduate programs in learning science began to appear around the world, and the field is continuing to be recognized as an innovative and influential area for education research and design.\n\n\"The Journal of the Learning Sciences\" was first published in 1991, with Janet Kolodner as founding editor. Yasmin Kafai and Cindy Hmelo-Silver took over as editors in 2009, and then Iris Tabak and Joshua Radinsky took over as editors in 2013. \"The International Journal of Computer-Supported Collaborative Learning\" was established as a separate journal in 2006, edited by Gerry Stahl and Freiderich Hesse. These journals, while relatively new in the field of education research, rapidly escalated and continue to place in upper ranks of the Educational Research section of the Social Sciences Citation Index impact factor rankings.\n\nThe Institute for the Learning Sciences hosted the first International Conference for the Learning Sciences (ICLS) in August 1991 at Northwestern University (edited by Lawrence Birnbaum, and published by the AACE but no longer available). The first biennial meeting of the ICLS also took place at Northwestern University, in 1994. The International Society of the Learning Sciences was established in 2002.\n\nBy integrating multiple fields, learning science extends beyond other closely related fields in distinguishable ways. For example, learning science extends beyond psychology, in that it also accounts for, as well as contributes to computational, sociological and anthropological approaches to the study of learning. Similarly, learning science draws inspiration from cognitive science, and is regarded as a branch of cognitive science; however, it gives particular attention to improving education through the study, modification, and creation of new technologies and learning environments, and various interacting and emergent factors that potentially influence the learning of humans.\n\nMany learning science researchers employ design-based research methodology. The growing acceptance of design-based research methodology as a means for study is often viewed as a significant factor distinguishing learning science from many of the fields that contribute to it. By including design-based research within its methodological toolkit, learning science qualifies as a \"design science\", with characteristics in common with other design sciences that employ design science such as engineering and computer science. Learning science is also considered by some as having some degree of overlap with instructional design, although historically the two communities have come about in different ways and at times emphasized different programs of research, as described in a special issue of the journal \"Educational Technology\" in 2004.\n\nHowever, it should be emphasized that design-based research is by no means the only research methodology used in the field. Many other methodologies—including computational modeling, experimental and quasi-experimental research, and non-interventionist ethnographic-style qualitative research methodologies—have long been and continue to be employed in learning science.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42010886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42010886", "title": "Legend of the Leather Bridge", "text": "Legend of the Leather Bridge\n\nThere is a legend of the Leather Bridge () in several regions of Germany and Switzerland. The word \"lederne\" could also have meant \"ladder\" or \"lantern\".\n\nAccording to legend, there was once a leather bridge crossing the Elmstein valley between the Palatine castle of Erfenstein, high above the left bank of the Speyerbach river, and a second castle, Spangenberg, on the opposite side of the valley. Two brothers, or at least two close friends, who visited each other frequently, decided to build the bridge in order to avoid having to take the difficult path through the valley between the two castles and over the then wild River Speyerbach.\n\nTheir friendship continued for many years. But one day the two lords, having feasted together at the Spangenberg again, began a heated argument. No doubt, an excess of wine had contributed to the situation. One word led to another and finally the Erfenstein lord, beside himself with rage, returned over the bridge, having shouted loudly, \"I will never come back!\" Equally furious, the lord of Spangenberg roared after him, \"You don't need to; I'll see to that!\" And when the lord of Erfenstein reached the middle of the bridge, Spangenberg cut the leather straps with his sword. The bridge fell into the depths and the lord of Erfenstein plunged to his death. One source records that the dispute was because one lord, who was a bachelor and the golden-haired wife of his brother had fallen in love and the bridge was used for their trysts.\n\nEver after this murder there was bitter enmity between the owners of the two castles and they damaged one another whenever they could.\n\nThe historic background to the legend is that the two castles were always owned by different overlords – initially Spangenberg to the Speyer prince-bishop and Erfenstein to the counts of Leiningen – who in were always in competition with one another. When, later, their ownership changed, a conflict broke out, the Weißenburg Feud, between Elector Frederick I of the Palatinate and his cousin, Duke Louis I of Palatinate-Zweibrücken. As a result both castles were destroyed in 1470; first, Erfenstein, and then, Spangenberg. \n\nTechnically, to make a bridge made of soft, sagging material such as leather would not have been practicable because the height of the castles above the floor of the valley (about one hundred metres) would not be enough to span the five hundred metres between them.\n\nA leather bridge is supposed to have linked the two castles of Stolzenburg and Pielstein over the Urft. According to local legend, their knights lived in the lap of luxury, demanding socage from the farmers, yet allowing their children to play skittles along the bridge with loaves of bread, whilst the subjects were dying of hunger. God himself is said to have destroyed both castles by unleashing a natural disaster.\n\nNear Arnsberg legend has it that the devil made a leather bridge between the castles of Rüdenburg and Arnsberg in order to provide an escape route for the beleaguered lord of Rüdenburg and his men. This was done in gratitude for the hospitality that the Rüdenburgers had previously unwittingly shown the devil. \n\nIn the valley of Kartäusertal, on the southern edge of the Nördlinger Ries there was supposed to have been a leather bridge between the three sister castles of Rauhaus, Hochhaus and Niederhaus. According to legend, whoever \"cut the leather bridge\" would have his castle swallowed up by the earth.\n\nIt is assumed that the \"lederne Brücke\" in this story, actually means a \"bridge of lights\", in other words that there was a communication link between the castles that was maintained using light signals. When, one day, Rauhaus Castle became unoccupied, the light bridge was interrupted. The castle was then plundered by the local populace and slighted; it was thus practically \"swallowed by the earth\".\n\nIn Mellingen on the River Ilm southeast of Weimar there were once two castles: one on the Kapellenberg hill and the Heinrichsburg, both of which were probably destroyed during the Saxon Fratricidal War. Both castles, separated by about 1.5 kilometres, were supposed to have been connected by a leather bridge. Especially in the older literature (around 1900) it is posited that this legend is a mythological reference to Edda.\n\nNear Elsterberg on the White Elster are the ruins of Elsterberg Castle. A leather bridge is supposed to have joined the old castle over a distance of several hundred metres to the newer buildings.\n\nAn evil Wendish prince, or according to other Sorbian legends a Wendish king called \"Prebislav\" in the 10th century, is supposed to have lived in a castle in the \"Teufelslauch\" northeast of Friedland in the direction of the village of \"Reudnitz\". In order to pursue his crimes as a robber knight, he left the castle over a leather bridge that he rolled out in front of him and rolled up behind him. When he robbed a man who was in league with the devil, the devil whipped up a mighty thunderstorm. A lightning bolt killed the prince and the floods caused the castle to sink into the ground. All that remains are the water-filled depressions of the \"Teufelslauch\" (\"Devil's Hole\").\n\nIn Wileroltigen a tale is told of tunnels, a leather bridge and a stone grave. The castle of Oltigen and the castle of Wileroltigen were first mentioned in 1006. Along with Hugo of Mümpelgard (Montbéliard), Count of Oltigen they came to an evil end in May 1410, according to Conrad Justinger.\n"}
{"id": "36815827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36815827", "title": "List of languages by type of grammatical genders", "text": "List of languages by type of grammatical genders\n\nThis article lists languages depending on their approach to grammatical gender.\n\nCertain language families, such as the Austronesian, Turkic and Uralic language families have no grammatical genders (see genderless language).\n\n\n\n\n\nIn these languages, animate nouns are predominantly of common gender, while inanimate nouns may be of either gender.\n\n\nIn many such languages, what is commonly termed \"animacy\" may in fact be more accurately described as a distinction between human and non-human, rational and irrational, \"socially active\" and \"socially passive\" etc.\n\n\nNote: in Slavic languages marked with an asterisk (*), traditionally only \"masculine\", \"feminine\" and \"neuter\" genders are recognized, with \"animacy\" as a separate category for the masculine and feminine (in East Slavic languages) or masculine only (elsewhere); the actual situation is similar to Czech.\n\n"}
{"id": "285558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=285558", "title": "Lorelei", "text": "Lorelei\n\nThe Lorelei (; ) is a 132 m (433 ft) high, steep slate rock on the right bank of the River Rhine in the Rhine Gorge (or Middle Rhine) at Sankt Goarshausen in Germany.\n\nThe name comes from the old German words \"lureln\", Rhine dialect for \"murmuring\", and the Celtic term \"ley\" \"rock\". The translation of the name would therefore be: \"murmur rock\" or \"murmuring rock\". The heavy currents, and a small waterfall in the area (still visible in the early 19th century) created a murmuring sound, and this combined with the special echo the rock produces to act as a sort of amplifier, giving the rock its name. The murmuring is hard to hear today owing to the urbanization of the area. Other theories attribute the name to the many boating accidents on the rock, by combining the German verb (\"to lurk, lie in wait\") with the same \"ley\" ending, with the translation \"lurking rock\".\n\nAfter the German spelling reform of 1901, in almost all German terms, the letter \"y\" was changed to the letter \"i\", but some proper nouns have kept their \"y\", such as Bayern, Speyer, Spay, Tholey, (Rheinberg-)Orsoy and including Loreley, which is thus the correct spelling in German.\n\nThe rock and the murmur it creates have inspired various tales. An old legend envisioned dwarfs living in caves in the rock.\n\nIn 1801, German author Clemens Brentano composed his ballad \"Zu Bacharach am Rheine\" as part of a fragmentary continuation of his novel \"Godwi oder Das steinerne Bild der Mutter\". It first told the story of an enchanting female associated with the rock. In the poem, the beautiful Lore Lay, betrayed by her sweetheart, is accused of bewitching men and causing their death. Rather than sentence her to death, the bishop consigns her to a nunnery. On the way thereto, accompanied by three knights, she comes to the Lorelei rock. She asks permission to climb it and view the Rhine once again. She does so and thinking that she sees her love in the Rhine, falls to her death; the rock still retained an echo of her name afterwards. Brentano had taken inspiration from Ovid and the Echo myth.\n\nIn 1824, Heinrich Heine seized on and adapted Brentano's theme in one of his most famous poems, \"Die Lorelei\". It describes the eponymous female as a sort of siren who, sitting on the cliff above the Rhine and combing her golden hair, unwittingly distracted shipmen with her beauty and song, causing them to crash on the rocks. In 1837 Heine's lyrics were set to music by Friedrich Silcher in the art song \"Lorelei\" that became well known in German-speaking lands. A setting by Franz Liszt was also favored and dozens of other musicians have set the poem to music.\n\nThe Lorelei character, although originally imagined by Brentano, passed into German popular culture in the form described in the Heine–Silcher song and is commonly but mistakenly believed to have originated in an old folk tale. The French writer Guillaume Apollinaire took up the theme again in his poem \"La Loreley\", from the collection \"Alcools\" which is later cited in Symphony No. 14 (3rd movement) of Dmitri Shostakovich.\n\nA barge carrying 2,400 tons of sulphuric acid capsized on 13 January 2011, near the Lorelei rock, blocking traffic on one of Europe's busiest waterways.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1237263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1237263", "title": "Marathi literature", "text": "Marathi literature\n\nMarathi literature is the body of literature of Marathi, an Indo-Aryan language spoken mainly in the Indian state of Maharashtra and written in the Devanagari script. \n\nYadav period is significant in the history of maharashtra. \nMarathi literature is the oldest of the Indo-Aryan literatures, dating to about 1000 CE. In the 13th century, two Brahmanical sects arose, the Mahanubhava and the Varakari Panth, that both shaped Marathi literature significantly. The latter sect was perhaps the more productive, for it became associated with bhakti movements, particularly with the popular cult of Vithoba at Pandharpur. It was out of this tradition that the great names of early Marathi literature came: Jnaneshvara, in the 13th century; Namdev, his younger contemporary, some of whose devotional songs are included in the holy book of the Sikhs, the Adi Granth; and the 16th-century writer Eknath, whose best-known work is a Marathi version of the 11th book of the Bhagavata-purana. Among the bhakti poets of Maharashtra, the most famous is Tukaram, who wrote in the 16th century. A unique contribution of Marathi is the tradition of povadas, heroic stories popular among a martial people. This tradition was particularly vital during the 17th century, when Shivaji, the great Maratha king, led his armies against the might of the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb.\n\nEpigraphic evidence suggests that Marathi was a standard written language by the 12th century. However, the earliest records of actual literature in Marathi appear only in the late 13th century. The early Marathi literature emerged during the Seuna (Yadava) rule, because of which some scholars have theorized that it was produced with support from the Yadava rulers. The Yadavas did regard Marathi as a significant language for connecting with the general public, and Marathi replaced Kannada and Sanskrit as the dominant language of the inscriptions during the last half century of the Yadava rule. However, there is no evidence that the Yadava royal court directly supported the production of Marathi literature with state funds.\n\nThe early Marathi literature was mostly religious and philosophical in nature, and was composed by the saint-poets belonging to Mahanubhava and Warkari sects. During the reign of the last three Yadava kings, a great deal of literature in verse and prose, on astrology, medicine, Puranas, Vedanta, kings and courtiers were created. \"Nalopakhyan\", \"Rukmini Swayamvar\" and Shripati's \"Jyotishratnamala\" (1039) are a few examples.\n\nBhaskarbhatta Borikar of the Mahanubhava sect is the first known poet to have composed hymns in Marathi.\n\nDnyaneshwar (1275–1296) was the first Marathi literary figure who had wide readership and profound influence. His major works are \"Amrutanubhav\" and \"Bhavarth Deepika\" (popularly known as \"Dnyaneshwari\"). \"Bhavarth Deepika\" is a 9000-couplets long commentary on the Bhagavad Gita.\n\nNamdev, the Bhakti saint and contemporary of Dnyaneshwar is the other significant literary figure from this era. Namdev composed religious songs in Marathi as well as Hindi; some of his Hindi compositions are included in the Sikh holy book, the Guru Granth Sahib.\n\nAnother early Marathi writer was Mukundaraja, who wrote \"Vivekasindhu\" and \"Paramamrita\". Both the works deal with the Advaita philosophy. Some earlier scholars dated him to the 12th century, and considered \"Vivekasindhu\" as the first literary book in Marathi, dating it to 1188. However, most linguistic historians now date Mukundaraja to 14th century or later: the \"Vivekasindhu\" was likely written after \"Lilacharita\" and \"Dnyaneshwari\".\n\nThere was relatively little activity in Marathi in the early days of the Bahmani Sultanate (1347–1527) and the Bijapur Sultanate (1527–1686). The Warkari saint-poet Eknath (1533–1599), the main successor of Dnyaneshwar, was a major Marathi literary figure during this period. He made available an authentic, edited version of Dnyaneshwari, which had been forgotten after the Islamic invasion of Deccan. He also wrote several abhangs (devotional poems), narratives and minor works that dealt with the Bhagavata Purana He wrote \"Eknathi Bhagwat\", \"Bhavarth Ramayan\", \"Rukmini Swayamwar Hastamalak\", and \"Bharud\". Dasopant was another minor but notable poet from this era. Mukteshwar (1574-1645), the grandson of Eknath, too, wrote several works in Marathi including a translation of the epic Mahabharata.\n\n\"Krista Purana\", written by the Goa-based Christian missionary Thomas Stephens, was first published in 1616. It is written in a mix of Marathi and Konkani languages, and the first copy was printed in the Roman script, and tells the story of Jesus Christ.\n\nThe Marathas, the Marathi-speaking natives, formed their own kingdom in the 17th century. The development of the Marathi literature accelerated during this period. Although their leader, Shivaji, was formally crowned as the king in 1674, he had been the de facto ruler of a large area in Western Maharashtra for some time. Tukaram and Samarth Ramdas, who were contemporaries of Shivaji, were the well-known poets of the early Maratha period. Tukaram (1608–1650) was the most prominent Marathi Varkari spiritual poet identified with the Bhakti movement, and had a great influence on the later Maratha society. His contemporary, Samarth Ramdas composed \"Dasbodh\" and \"Manache Shlok\" in Marathi.\n\nIn the 18th century, several well-known works like Yatharthadeepika (by Vaman Pandit), \"Naladamayanti Swayamvara\" (by Raghunath Pandit), \"Pandava Pratap\", \"Harivijay\", \"Ramvijay\" (by Shridhar Pandit) and \"Mahabharata\" (translation by Moropant) were produced. The historical section of the old Marathi literature contained the Bakhars and the \"Katava\"s. Krishna Dayarnava and Sridhar were other leading poets during the Peshwa rule. Mahipati, the author who wrote the biographies of the Bhakti Saints also belonged to this era.\n\nThe British colonial period (also known as the Modern Period) saw standardisation of Marathi grammar through the efforts of the Christian missionary William Carey. Carey's dictionary had fewer entries and Marathi words were in Devanagari script instead of the Modi script prevalent at that time. Carey also translated the new and old testament of the bible into Marathi in 1811 and 1820 respectively The most comprehensive Marathi-English dictionaries was compiled by Captain James Thomas Molesworth and Major Thomas Candy in 1831. The book is still in print nearly two centuries after its publication.,\nThe colonial authorities also worked on standardizing Marathi under the leadership of Molesworth . They used Brahmins of Pune for this task and adopted the Sanskrit dominated dialect spoken by this caste in the city as the standard dialect for Marathi.\nThe Christian missionaries introduced the Western forms to the Marathi literature. \nMarathi at this time was efficiently aided by Marathi Drama. Here, there also was a different genre called 'Sangit Natya' or Musicals. The first play was V.A. Bhave's Sita Swayamvar in 1843 Later Kirloskar (1843–85) and G.B. Deval (1854-19l6) brought a romantic aroma and social content. But Krishnaji Prabhakar Khadilkar (1872-1948) with his banned play Kichaka-Vadh (1910) set the trend of political playwriting. These were followed by stalwarts like Ram Ganesh Gadkari and Prahlad Keshav Atre.\n\nThe modern poets like Keshavsuta, Balakavi, Govindagraj, and the poets of Ravi Kiran Mandal (such as Madhav Julian) wrote poetry which was influenced by the Romantic and Victorian English poetry. It was largely sentimental and lyrical. Prahlad Keshav Atre, the renowned satirist and a politician wrote a parody of this sort of poetry in his collection \"Jhenduchi Phule\".\n\nSane Guruji (1899–1950) contributed to the children's literature in Marathi. His major works are \"Shyamchi Aai, \"Astik\" and \"Gode Shevata\". He translated and simplified many Western Classics and published them in a book of stories titled \"Gode Goshti\" (Sweet Stories).\n\nOn January 6, 1832, Balshastri Jambhekar of the Elphinstone College began \"Darpan\", the first Marathi-English fortnightly magazine.\n\nOn 24 October 1841, Govind Vithal Kunte began \"Prabhakar\". Kunte was the first professional Marathi journalist. Prabhakar eulogised Indian art and culture. \"Jnyanodaya\" was begun in 1842 by Christian missionaries in Western India. \"Jnyan Prakash\" was started on 12 February 1849 in Pune. It was edited by Krishnaraj Trimbak Ranade. It was a weekly till 1904, when it became a daily. It ceased publication in 1951. It was a prestigious journal and supported education and social reform. Hari Narayan Apte, a famous Marathi novelist served as its editor. Some of its contributors included Mahadev Govind Ranade and Gopal Krishna Gokhale.\n\nIn the early years of Marathi journalism, most periodicals were concerned with spreading education and knowledge. These include \"Jaganmitra\" (from Ratnagiri), \"Shubh Suchak\" (from Satara), \"Vartaman Dipika\", \"Vartaman Sangrah\". In 1862, \"Induprakash\" was begun in Bombay (now Mumbai). It was a bilingual journal, edited by M.G. Ranade. It criticised orthodoxy and was the mouthpiece of many social reforms. In 1877, Jyotiba Phule and Krishnarao Bhaskar began \"Deenbandhu\", as part of the Dalit upliftment movement. Deenabandhu was the organ of the Satyashodhak Samaj founded by Phule.\nOn 4 January 1881, Bal Gangadhar Tilak began \"Kesari\", along with Gopal Ganesh Agarkar. In 1887, Agarkar left to start \"sujeet Sudharak\" (bilingual) along with Gopal Krishna Gokhale. After Agarkar's death in 1895, it ceased publication. In 1889, \"K. Navalkar\" started the weekly Vartahar to highlight atrocities committed by Europeans. In 1890, Hari Narayan Apte began \"Karmanuk\" as a family entertainment paper. It contained articles on science. Also in 1890, Anandrao Ramachandra Dharandhar started \"Bhoot\" published every new and full moon day. It was the first Marathi paper to carry cartoons on political and social matters. It was very popular but ceased publication in 1904.\n\nVishnu Sakharam Khandekar (1889–1976)'s \"Yayati\" won him the Jnanpith Award for 1975. He also wrote many other novels, short stories, essays etc. His major works are \"Don Dhruv\" (Two Poles), \"Ulka\" (Meteorite), \"Krounchavadh\", \"Jalalela Mohar\", \"Amrutvel\".\n\nMarathi drama flourished in the 1960s and 1970s, with literary figures like Vasant Kanetkar, Kusumagraj and Vijay Tendulkar. \n\nThe major paradigm shift in Marathi literature sensibilities began in the forties with the modernist poetry of B.S. Mardhekar. In the mid fifties, the little magazine movement gained momentum. It published writings which were non-conformist, radical and experimental. Dalit literary movement also gained strength due to the little magazine movement. This radical movement was influenced by the philosophy of Babasaheb Ambedkar and challenged the literary establishment which was largely middle class, urban, and upper caste people. The little magazine movement threw up many noted writers. Bhalchandra Nemade is a well-known novelist, critic and poet. Sharad Rane is a well-known child literary figure. The notable poets include Arun Kolatkar, Dilip Chitre, Namdeo Dhasal, Vasant Abaji Dahake and Manohar Oak. Bhau Padhye, Vilas Sarang, Shyam Manohar, Suhas Shirvalkar and Visharm Bedekar are well known fiction writers.\n\nAnother major shift sensibility began in the nineties with the poems and criticism of Shridhar Tilve and the poetry of poets associated with Saushthav, Abhidhanantar and Shabadavedh. In the post nineties, this 'new little magazine movement' gained momentum and poets like Shridhar Tilve who stood against postmodernism and nativism and poets like Manya Joshi, Hemant Divate, Sachin Ketkar, Mangesh Narayanrao Kale, Saleel Wagh, Mohan Borse, Nitin Kulkarni, Nitin Arun Kulkarni, Varjesh Solanki, Sandeep Deshpande, Vasant Gurjar who touched the new areas of post-modern life. The poetry collections brought out by Abhidhanantar Prakashan, Time and Space, Popular Prakashan, Navta Prakashan and the regular issues of the magazine Abhidhanantar and IRREGULAR issues of Saushthav, Shabdvedh are taking Marathi poetry to the global standards. Another leading wave in contemporary Marathi poetry is the poetry of new dalit wave poets like Arun Kale, Bhujang Meshram and new deshi wave poets like Pravin Bandekar, Shrikant Deshmukh and Veerdhaval Parab.\n\nMarathi science fiction has a rich heritage and boasts of modern complex stories. The known Marathi science fiction authors are Dr. Jayant Narlikar, Dr Bal Phondke, Subodh Javadekar, Niranjan Ghate, and Laxman Londhe.\nedh\nOver the last century or so, a number of producing encyclopedias have been produced in marathi. These include . Shreedhar Venkatesh Ketkar's 'Dnyaankosh', Siddheshwarshastri Chitrao's 'Charitra Kosh', Mahadevshastri Joshi's 'Bharatiy Sanskrutikosh', and Laxmanshastri Joshi's 'Dharmakosh' and 'Marathi Vishwakosh'.\nThe Marathi theatre was complimented by Marathi films which did not enjoy a continuous success. Starting with V. Shantaram and before him the pioneer Dadasaheb Phalke (during the British period), Marathi cinema went on to influence contemporary Hindi cinema. Marathi language as spoken by people here was throughout influenced by drama and cinema along with contemporary literature.\n\nIt was in 1958, that the term \"Dalit literature\" was used for the first time, when the first conference of \"Maharashtra Dalit Sahitya Sangha\" (Maharashtra Dalit Literature Society) was held at Mumbai, a movement inspired by 19th century social reformer, Jyotiba Phule and eminent dalit leader, Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar.\n\nBaburao Bagul (1930–2008) was a pioneer of Dalit writings in Marathi. His first collection of stories, \"Jevha Mi Jat Chorali\" (जेव्हा मी जात चोरली) (When I Concealed My Caste), published in 1963, created a stir in Marathi literature with its passionate depiction of a cruel society and thus brought in new momentum to Dalit literature in Marathi. Gradually with other writers like, Namdeo Dhasal (who founded Dalit Panther), these Dalit writings paved way for the strengthening of Dalit movement. Notable Dalit authors writing in Marathi include Arun Kamble, Shantabai Kamble, Raja Dhale, Namdev Dhasal, Daya Pawar, Annabhau Sathe, Laxman Mane, Laxman Gaikwad, Sharankumar Limbale, Bhau Panchbhai, Kishor Shantabai Kale, Narendra jadhav, Namdeo Vatkar, Ashok Vatkar, Baliram G. Kamble and Urmila Pawar.\n\nFour Marathi writers have been honored with the Jnanpith Award:\n\n\nEvery year, Sahitya Akademi gives the Sahitya Akademi Award to Marathi writers for their outstanding contribution to Marathi literature. See the List of Sahitya Akademi Award winners for Marathi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "79420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79420", "title": "Mungu ibariki Afrika", "text": "Mungu ibariki Afrika\n\n\" () is the national anthem of Tanzania. It is the Swahili language version of Enoch Sontonga's popular hymn \".\n\nThe word in Swahili means God and the title of the anthem therefore translates as \"God bless Africa\".\n\n\"Mungu ibariki Afrika\" was translated and became the anthem of Tanganyika. It was essentially assigned to Enoch Sontonga, who died in 1905. Mungu ibariki Afrika used the tune to \"Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika\" with a Swahili translation of the words. It is not known who composed the lyrics but it is known that it was Samuel Mqhayi and Enoch Sontonga who created the early versions used by the African National Congress. Although the tune has been assigned to Sontonga it is thought that the tune was originally written by Joseph Parry.\n\nIt was first performed in Swahili at a ceremony on 8 December 1961 following the independence of Tanganyika from the British Empire. \"Mungu ibariki Afrika\" was composed to replace the British national anthem, \"God Save the Queen\" as the national anthem of Tanganyika. This made Tanganyika the first African nation to adopt the tune of \"Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika\" as its national anthem. In 1964, Tanganyika formed a union with Zanzibar, which created the United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar (later renamed to Tanzania). The newly united country adopted \"Mungu ibariki Afrika\" as its national anthem instead of Zanzibar's anthem. Tanzania's use of \"Mungu ibariki Afrika\" led the way for other African countries such as Zimbabwe, Ciskei and Transkei adopted \"Nkosi Sikelel' Afrika\", in parts, as their national anthems. South Africa where the song comes from use only some of the words, Zambia uses only the tune and other countries have now abandoned its use. \"Mungu ibariki Afrika\" was inspired by the African National Congress's use of \"Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika\" (\"God Bless Africa\") as its party song after its use at Ohlange High School. The ANC anthem led to \"Mungu ibariki Afrika\" being selected as the national anthem of Tanzania. \"Mungu ibariki Afrika\" is also used as a hymn requesting Tanzania remain united and independent.\n\nTanganyika and later Tanzania had concerns about religious unrest between Christians and Muslims after independence. This was because of Christian references in government proceedings and official oaths. The wording of \"Mungu ibariki Afrika\" was intended to help offset this by being inclusive of the different religious views.\n\n\"Mungu ibariki Afrika\" is sung daily at Tanzanian schools. A circular issued in 1998 by the nation's Commissioner of Education recommended the singing of the national anthem as a way to promote patriotism in Tanzania's youth.\n\nIn 2007, a legal issue arose over the anthem after students who were members of the Jehovah's Witnesses refused to sing the song at their primary and secondary schools in Mbozi District, Mbeya Region. Five students were expelled from school and 122 others received other forms of discipline for their refusal. They objected to singing the anthem because they believed it suggested obeisance to the flag of Tanzania before God. On 2 December 2010, the High Court of Tanzania ruled that the schools' disciplinary actions were appropriate. The Court of Appeal of Tanzania overturned that ruling on 12 July 2013, indicating that the disciplinary action taken by the school was unlawful and stating that there was no obligation to sing the national anthem in Tanzanian law.\n\n"}
{"id": "200485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200485", "title": "Muslin", "text": "Muslin\n\nMuslin ( or ), also mousseline, is a cotton fabric of plain weave. It is made in a wide range of weights from delicate sheers to coarse sheeting. They were imported into Europe from Bengal in the 17th century and were later manufactured in Scotland and England. It gets its name from the city of Mosul, Iraq, where it may have been first manufactured. Early muslin was handwoven of uncommonly delicate handspun yarn, especially in the region around Dhaka, Bengal (now Bangladesh), where it may have originated. It was imported into Europe for much of the 17th and early 18th centuries.\n\nFine linen muslin was formerly known as sindon.\n\nIn 2013, the traditional art of weaving \"Jamdani\" muslin in Bangladesh was included in the list of Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO.\n\nMuslin (AmE: Muslin gauze) from French \"mousseline\", from Italian mussolina, from Mussolo ‘Mosul’ (Mosul, Iraq, where European traders are said to have first encountered the cloth). Although this view has the fabric named after the city where Europeans first encountered it (Mosul), the fabric is believed to have originated in Dhakeshwari, now Dhaka the capital of Bangladesh. In the 9th century, an Arab merchant named Sulaiman made note of the material's origin in Bengal (known as Ruhmi in Arabic). Bengali muslin was traded throughout the Muslim world, from the Middle East to Southeast Asia. In many Islamic regions, such as in Central Asia, the cloth was named \"Daka,\" after the city of Dhaka.\n\nSubsequently, the word Muslin found its place in various European languages as French \"mousseline\", Italian \"mussolina\" etc.,\n\nDuring the Roman period, muslin was the foremost export of Masulipatam, in Andhra Pradesh. Bengali khadi muslin was so prized by well-dressed ladies of Rome that according to Roman legend, \"an ounce of muslin used to sell in Rome for an ounce of gold\".\n\nIn 1298, Marco Polo described the cloth in his book \"The Travels.\" He said it was made in Mosul, Iraq. The 16th-century English traveler Ralph Fitch lauded the muslin he saw in Sonargaon. During the 17th and 18th centuries, Mughal Bengal emerged as the foremost muslin exporter in the world, with Mughal Dhaka as capital of the worldwide muslin trade. It became highly popular in 18th-century France and eventually spread across much of the Western world.\n\nUnder British rule, the British East India company could not compete with the local Muslin with their own export of cloth to India. Muslin production was repressed and the knowledge eradicated. There is a story that weavers were systematically rounded up and their hands mutilated with removal of their thumbs, but this seems to be a misreading of a report from 1772 that spinners were treated \"with such injustice that instances have been known of their cutting off their thumbs, to prevent their being forced to wind silk.\"\n\nDuring British colonial rule in the eighteenth century, the Bengali muslin industry was ruthlessly suppressed by various colonial policies, which favored imports of industrially manufactured textiles from Britain. Brutality to muslin weavers was intense, William Bolts noting in 1772 that \"instances have been known of their cutting off their thumbs to prevent their being forced to wind silk.\" As a result, the quality of muslin suffered greatly and its finesse was nearly lost for two centuries.\n\nThere have been various attempts at reviving the muslin industry in modern Bangladesh. In present day, many different types of muslins are produced in many different places, including Dhaka.\n\nThe word muslin is also used colloquially. In the United Kingdom, many sheer cotton fabrics are called muslin, while in the United States, muslin sometimes refers to a firm cloth for everyday use, which in the UK and Australia is known as calico.\n\nWhen sewing clothing, a dressmaker may test the fit of a garment, using an inexpensive muslin fabric before cutting pieces from expensive fabric, thereby avoiding potential costly mistakes. This garment is often called a \"muslin,\" and the process is called \"making a muslin.\" In this context, \"muslin\" has become the generic term for a test or fitting garment, regardless of what it is made from.\n\nMuslin is also often used as a backing or lining for quilts, and thus can often be found in wide widths in the quilting sections of fabric stores.\n\nMuslin is used as a French polishing pad.\n\nMuslin can be used as a filter:\n\nMuslin is the material for the traditional cloth wrapped around a Christmas pudding.\n\nMuslin is the fabric wrapped around the items in barmbrack, a fruitcake traditionally eaten at Halloween in Ireland.\n\nMuslin is used when making traditional Fijian Kava as a filter.\n\nBeekeepers use muslin to filter melted beeswax to clean it of particles and debris.\n\nMuslin is often the cloth of choice for theater sets. It is used to mask the background of sets and to establish the mood or feel of different scenes. It receives paint well and, if treated properly, can be made translucent.\n\nIt also holds dyes well. It is often used to create nighttime scenes because when dyed, it often gets a wavy look with the color varying slightly, such that it resembles a night sky. Muslin shrinks after it is painted or sprayed with water, which is desirable in some common techniques such as soft-covered flats.\n\nIn video production as well, muslin is used as a cheap greenscreen or bluescreen, either pre-colored or painted with latex paint (diluted with water). It is commonly used as a background for the chroma key technique.\n\nMuslin is the most common backdrop material used by photographers for formal portrait backgrounds. These backdrops are usually painted, most often with an abstract mottled pattern.\n\nIn the early days of silent film-making, and up until the late 1910s, movie studios did not have the elaborate lights needed to illuminate indoor sets, so most interior scenes were sets built outdoors with large pieces of muslin hanging overhead to diffuse sunlight.\n\nSurgeons use muslin gauze in cerebrovascular neurosurgery to wrap around aneurysms or intracranial vessels at risk for bleeding. The thought is that the gauze reinforces the artery and helps prevent rupture. It is often used for aneurysms that, due to their size or shape, cannot be microsurgically clipped or coiled.\n\nThe Wright Brothers, in search of a light and strong covering for their gliders and the 1903 Wright Flyer (the first heavier-than-air powered aircraft), selected Pride of the West muslin as a covering for wings and control surfaces. A large piece of the fabric used on the original Wright Flyer (1903) was passed down to Wright descendants. The fabric was made available to The Wright Experience(reproduction of the Wright gliders and Flyer and reenactment of the first flight on its 100th anniversary) for examination as it was no longer commercially available a century after its use by the Wrights. To create an authentic modern reproduction of the original fabric, three different companies were needed which produced the thread, the weaving, and the finishing).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32308310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32308310", "title": "Naval tradition", "text": "Naval tradition\n\nA naval tradition is a tradition that is, or has been, observed in one or more navies.\nA basic tradition is that all ships commissioned in a navy are referred to as ships rather than vessels, with the exception of submarines, which are known as boats. The prefix on a ship's name indicates that it is a commissioned ship. For example,\nUSS is an acronym which expands to United States Ship; in the Royal Navy, HMS expands to Her Majesty's Ship (or when a King reigns, His Majesty's Ship); in the Indian Navy, INS expands to Indian Navy Ship, and so forth.\n\nAn important tradition on board British naval vessels (and later those of the U.S. and other nations) has been the ship's bell. This was historically used to mark the passage of time on board a vessel, including the duration of four-hour watches. They were also employed as warning devices in heavy fog, and for alarms and ceremonies. The bell was originally kept polished first by the ship's cook, then later by a person belonging to that division of the ship's personnel.\n\nAnother important tradition is that of Piping someone aboard the ship. This was originally used to give orders on warships when shouted orders could not have been heard. The piping was done by the ship's boatswain and therefore the instrument is known as the boatswain's Pipe or boatswain's call. The two tones it gives and the number of blasts given off, signify the order given. It is also used in a ceremonial way, i.e., to \"pipe\" someone aboard the ship — usually captains, including the ship's captain, and more senior officers.\n\nBy English tradition, ships have been referred to as a \"she\". However, it was long considered bad luck to permit women to sail on board naval vessels. To do so would invite a terrible storm that would wreck the ship. The only women that were welcomed on board were figureheads mounted on the prow of the ship. In spite of these views, some women did serve on board naval vessels, usually as wives of crewmembers.\nThe custom of firing cannon salutes originated in the British Royal Navy. When a cannon is fired, it partially disarms the ship, so firing a cannon for no combat reason showed respect and trust. The British, as the dominant naval power, compelled the ships of weaker nations to make the first salute. As the tradition evolved, the number of cannon fired became an indication of the rank of the official being saluted.\n\nCommissioned ships and submarines of the Royal Navy wear the White Ensign at the stern whilst alongside during daylight hours and at the main-mast whilst under way. When alongside, the \"Union Jack\" as distinct from the Union Flag, is flown from the jackstaff at the bow, but can only be flown underway in special circumstances.\n\nA fleet review is a tradition of assembling the fleet before the monarch. In June 2005, to mark the bi-centenary of the Battle of Trafalgar, 167 ships of the RN, and 30 other nations, were present at a fleet review.\n\nThe naval salute differs from the military salute in that it has the palm turned down, rather than outwards.\n\nThe RN has evolved a rich volume of slang, known as \"Jack-speak\". Nowadays the British sailor is usually \"Jack\" (or \"Jenny\") rather than the more historical \"Jack Tar\". Nicknames for a British sailor, applied by others, include \"Matelot\" (pronounced \"matlow\"), and \"Limey\" - mainly redundant in use within the Royal Navy. Royal Marines are fondly known as \"Bootnecks\" or often just as \"Royals\".\nNicknames for the service include \"The Andrew\" or \"Andrew Miller\" (of uncertain origin, possibly after a zealous press ganger) and \"The Senior Service\" as the oldest of the military branches. Within the Merchant Navy the Royal Navy is known as \"The Grey Funnel Line\".\n"}
{"id": "43425279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43425279", "title": "Pritam &amp; Eames", "text": "Pritam &amp; Eames\n\nPritam & Eames is an art gallery associated with the American Studio Furniture movement which was established by Bebe Pritam Johnson and Warren Eames Johnson in East Hampton, NY in 1981.\n\nIn 1990-91, the partners interviewed 14 of the artists who were early and continuing contributors to the gallery:\n\nJames Krenov, \nWendell Castle, \nJere Osgood, \nJudy Kensley McKie, \nDavid Ebner, \nRichard Scott Newman, \nHank Gilpin, \nAlphonse Mattia, \nJohn Dunnigan, \nWendy Maruyama, \nJames Schriber, \nTimothy S. Philbrick, \nMichael Hurwitz \nThomas Hucker.\n\nThese conversations were turned into a book, \"Speaking of Furniture: Conversations with 14 American Masters\". In 2014, Bebe and Warren Johnson received the Award of Distinction from The Furniture Society. In the spring of 2015, Pritam & Eames re-located its exhibition space to The Gallery at Somes Sound on Mount Desert Island, ME.\n"}
{"id": "4552060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4552060", "title": "Prose Tristan", "text": "Prose Tristan\n\nThe Prose \"Tristan\" is an adaptation of the Tristan and Iseult story into a long prose romance, and the first to tie the subject entirely into the arc of the Arthurian legend. It was also the first major Arthurian prose cycle commenced after the widely popular Lancelot-Grail (Vulgate Cycle), which influenced especially the later portions of the Prose \"Tristan\". \n\nAccording to the prologue, the first part of the book (i.e. everything before the Grail material) is attributed to the otherwise unknown Luce de Gat, and were probably begun between 1230 and 1235. The work was expanded and reworked sometime after 1240. In the epilogue, a second author names himself as \"Helie de Boron,\" asserting that he is the nephew of the first author of the Arthurian Grail cycles, poet Robert de Boron. Helie de Boron claims, like the so-called authors of the \"Roman de la Rose\", to have picked up the story where Luce left off. Neither the biographies of the two authors, nor the claim that they had been translating the work from a Latin original are taken seriously by scholars. \n\nThe first part of the work stays closer to the traditional story as told by verse writers like Béroul and Thomas of Britain, but many episodes are reworked or altered entirely. Tristan's parents are given new names and backstories, and the overall tone has been called \"more realistic\" than the verse material though there are moments where characters sing. Tristan's guardian Governal takes him to France, where he grows up at the court of King Pharamond. He later arrives at the court of his uncle Mark, King of Cornwall, and defends his country against the Irish warrior Morholt. Wounded in the fight, he travels to Ireland where he is healed by Iseult, a renowned doctor and Morholt's niece, but he must flee when the Irish discover he has killed their champion. He later returns, in disguise, to seek Iseult as a bride for his uncle. When they accidentally drink the love potion prepared for Iseult and Mark, they engage in a tragic affair that ends with Tristan being banished to the court of Hoel of Brittany. He eventually marries Hoel's daughter, also named Iseult.\n\nEspecially after this point, however, the traditional narrative is continually interrupted for side adventures by the various characters and episodes serving to \"Arthurianize\" the story. Notably, Tristan's rivalry with the Saracen knight Palamedes is given substantial attention. Additionally, in the long version, Tristan leaves Brittany and returns to his first love, and never sees his wife again, though her brother Kahedin remains his close companion. Tristan is compared frequently to his friend Lancelot in both arms and love, and at times even unknowingly engages him in battles. He becomes a Knight of the Round Table (taking Morholt's old seat) and embarks on the Quest for the Holy Grail before abandoning the idea to stay with Iseult at Lancelot's castle. \n\nThe Grail Quest has been a source of controversy regarding the \"Tristan en prose\". Instead of writing new material, the author chose to insert (or interpolate) the entire \"Queste del Saint Graal\" from the Vulgate Cycle into the Tristan story. The result of this copying undermines the sanctity of the Vulgate Quest itself. Manuscripts which do not include the Grail material preserve the earlier version of the lovers' deaths, while the longer versions have Mark kill Tristan while he plays the harp for Iseult, only to see her die immediately afterwards.\n\nBefore any modern editions of the \"Prose Tristan\" were attempted, scholars were dependent on an extended summary and analysis of all the manuscripts by Eilert Löseth in 1890 (republished in 1974). Of the modern editions, the long version is made up of two editions: one edited by Renée L. Curtis and the other by Philippe Ménard. Curtis' edition of a simple manuscript (Carpentras 404) covers Tristan's ancestry and the traditional legend up to Tristan's madness. However, the massive amount of manuscripts in existence dissuaded other scholars from attempting what Curtis had done until Ménard hit upon the idea of using multiple teams of scholars to tackle the infamous Vienna 2542 manuscript. His edition follows from Curtis', includes Tristan's participation in the Quest for the Holy Grail and ends with Tristan and Iseult's death and the first signs of Arthur's fall. Richard Trachsler is currently preparing an edition of the \"continuation\" of the \"Prose Tristan\". The shorter version, which contains no Grail Quest, is published by Joël Blanchard in five volumes.\n\nThough part of the larger prose cycles, which dominated all things Arthurian after the early 13th century, the originality of the \"Tristan en prose\" is found in the author's use of lyrical poems to express characters' hopes, despair or anger. Various books and articles have studied the lyrical content of the \"Prose Tristan\" whether expressed as riddles in verse, letters in verse, songs of mockery or love songs. In this way, the \"Prose Tristan\" functions like a musical. Characters placed in extreme situations actually \"break into song.\" All of this is appropriate considering Tristan's traditional link to poetry.\n\nThe Prose \"Tristan\" had a huge effect on subsequent medieval literature and treatments of the Arthurian legend. Characters like Palamedes, Dinadan, and Lamorak, all of whom first appear in the \"Tristan\", achieved popularity in later works. The pagan knight Palamedes even lent his name to the \"Romance of Palamedes\", a later work that expands on episodes from the \"Tristan\". This material is also preserved in the \"Compilation\" of Rustichello da Pisa and numerous later redactions in several languages. The Prose \"Tristan\" also influenced the Post-Vulgate Cycle, the next major prose treatment of the Arthurian mythos, and served as the source for the Tristan section of Sir Thomas Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31919373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31919373", "title": "Punjabi Language Movement", "text": "Punjabi Language Movement\n\nThe Punjabi Language Movement (PLM) is a linguistic movement in Punjab, Pakistan aimed at reviving the Punjabi language, art, culture and literature in Pakistan. The Punjabi people constitute the largest ethnic group in Pakistan though Urdu is the national language and unlike Indian Punjab (where reading/writing Punjabi language is compulsory at every level from 2008 alongside a special Punjabi University at Patiala), Punjabi itself does not have an official status. \nThe PLM's ideologies are based on Punjabi nationalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "676038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=676038", "title": "Short Cuts", "text": "Short Cuts\n\nShort Cuts is a 1993 American comedy-drama film, directed by Robert Altman. Filmed from a screenplay by Altman and Frank Barhydt, it is inspired by nine short stories and a poem by Raymond Carver. The film has a Los Angeles setting, which substitues the Pacific Northwest backdrop of Carver's stories. Short Cuts traces the actions of 22 principal characters, both in parallel and at occasional loose points of connection. The role of chance and luck is central to the film, and many of the stories concern death and infidelity.\n\nThe film features an ensemble cast including Matthew Modine, Julianne Moore, Fred Ward, Anne Archer, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Robert Downey Jr., Madeleine Stowe, Chris Penn, Jack Lemmon, Frances McDormand, Lori Singer, Andie MacDowell, Buck Henry, Lily Tomlin, actress and singer Annie Ross, and musicians Huey Lewis, Lyle Lovett and Tom Waits.\n\nA fleet of helicopters sprays for medflies and reveals all the characters along the path of their flight. Dr. Ralph Wyman (Matthew Modine) and his wife, Marian (Julianne Moore), meet another couple, Stuart (Fred Ward) and Claire Kane (Anne Archer) - an out-of-work salesman and a party clown respectively - at Zoe Trainer's (Lori Singer) cello concert and make a spontaneous Sunday dinner date. Marian's sister, Sherri (Madeleine Stowe), is married to philandering cop Gene (Tim Robbins), who invents unbelievable stories to hide his affair with Betty Weathers (Frances McDormand). Betty is in the process of divorcing one of the helicopter pilots, Stormy (Peter Gallagher). Waitress Doreen Piggot (Lily Tomlin) is married to an alcoholic limo driver, Earl (Tom Waits). Television commentator Howard Finnigan (Bruce Davison) lives with his wife, Anne (Andie MacDowell), and their young son, Casey (Zane Cassidy), next door to Zoe and her mother, cabaret singer Tess (Annie Ross). Their pool cleaner is Jerry Kaiser (Chris Penn), whose wife, Lois (Jennifer Jason Leigh), works from home as a phone sex operator by tending to the children while she talks off strange men. Jerry and Lois are friends with Doreen's daughter, Honey (Lili Taylor), and her husband, Bill (Robert Downey Jr.), who works as a makeup artist.\n\nThe day before the eighth birthday of Casey, Doreen hits him with her car as he is running to school. Casey appears fine and refuses Doreen's offer of a ride home, as she is a stranger. His mother comes home from ordering his birthday cake to find him slumped lethargically on the couch. Howard convinces her to take Casey to the hospital, where he remains unconscious. The baker, Andy Bitkower (Lyle Lovett), calls the next day to inform Ann that the cake is ready, but Howard, wanting to keep the line free, briskly ends the conversation. The baker immediately calls back, incensed at being hung up on. While the Finnigans maintain their vigil, Bitkower continues to call and harass the couple. Howard's estranged father Paul (Jack Lemmon) turns up at the hospital and recalls that Casey's hospitalization reminds him of the day that Howard was in a car accident as a boy. When Howard's mother went to her sister's house, she found her in bed with her husband, whom she had seduced. That led to the estrangement between father and son.\n\nStuart and his two friends, Gordon (Buck Henry) and Vern (Huey Lewis), harass Doreen at the diner before they head out on their three-day fishing trip. On the first day, they find a young woman's body, submerged near some rocks. After some debate, they decide to tie her to the rocks, continue fishing, and report the body when they are done. When he comes home, Stuart eventually admits to Claire what they had done, and she is disgusted that they could fish for days with the woman's body nearby. The body is identified as a 23-year-old woman, and Claire visits the funeral home out of a sense of guilt.\n\nStormy visits Betty's house while she is away with their son Chad (Jarrett Lennon), ostensibly to pick up his mother's clock, but instead spends the day destroying her belongings. Bill and Honey entertain themselves in the apartment that they are watching while its owners are on vacation by taking some pictures of Honey in which Bill has made her up to look as if she has been brutally beaten. Gene abandons the family dog on a strange street because he cannot endure its barking, but after several days of his distraught children's inquiries, he returns to the neighbourhood and retrieves the dog, who has been picked up by Vern's family. The Wymans get into a massive argument just before their dinner party with the Kanes. Marian admits to an affair. Both couples alleviate their stress by drinking heavily, and the party lasts all night long.\n\nOne day, Casey's eyes begin to flutter. Ann's excitement grows, but just as he appears to be fully waking, he suddenly dies. Seeing that and being overwhelmed, Howard's father, Paul, leaves the hospital while the distraught couple returns home and informs Zoe of Casey's death. The next day, they go to the bakery to shame Bitkower over his abuse of them. When he learns why they never picked up the cake, he asks them to stay and gives them baked goods. Zoe, worn to the breaking point by her mother's alcoholism and her isolation, commits suicide by starting a car engine inside her garage; she plays the cello as she asphyxiates. Later that day, her mother discovers Zoe's death and is bewildered.\n\nWhen Honey picks up the pictures from the developer, they are mixed up with Gordon's. He is horrified to see the pictures of Honey, who is apparently beaten so badly, and she is horrified by the pictures Gordon took of the submerged body on his fishing trip. They walk away from each other, memorizing each other's license plates. Honey and Bill are on their way to a picnic with Jerry and Lois. In the park, Jerry and Bill try to rape two young women they encountered earlier, and Bill quickly makes an excuse to divvy up into couples. As he and one of the girls walk away from Jerry and the other girl, they hear her scream. They turn around to see Jerry hitting her in the head with a rock, just as a major earthquake strikes. In the aftermath, Jerry's murder of the girl is attributed to a falling rock during the earthquake.\n\nAccording to associate producer Mike Kaplan, the screenplay was first written in 1989. Filming primarily took place in Los Angeles, California. Principal photography began on July 26, 1992, and ended on October 1, 1992.\n\nA book was released to accompany the film, which compiled the nine short stories and one poem that inspired it. Altman wrote an introduction to this collection, which featured insights into the making of the film and his own thoughts about Carver's stories.\n\nThe film was distributed by Fine Line Features and released in the United States on October 3, 1993. A special DVD edition was released by the Criterion Collection in 2004 and contains two discs, the collection of Carver's short stories, and an essay booklet on the film.\n\n\"Short Cuts\" received positive reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a 95% approval rating, based on 56 reviews, with an average rating of 7.8/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Robert Altman's ensemble drama deftly integrates its disparate characters and episodes into a funny, poignant, emotionally satisfying whole.\" On Metacritic, the film holds a score of 79 out of 100, based on 22 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews.\"\n\nAltman was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Director (but lost to Steven Spielberg for \"Schindler's List\") and shared a nomination for the Golden Globe Award for Best Screenplay with Barhydt (lost to Steven Zaillian for \"Schindler's List\"). The cast won a Special Golden Globe Award for their ensemble acting. The film also won the prestigious Golden Lion and the Volpi Cup for Best Ensemble Cast at the Venice Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "7830579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7830579", "title": "The Cobra Event", "text": "The Cobra Event\n\nThe Cobra Event is a 1998 thriller novel by Richard Preston describing an attempted bioterrorism attack on the United States. The perpetrator of the attack has genetically engineered a virus, called \"Cobra\", that fuses the incurable and highly contagious common cold with one of the world's most virulent diseases, smallpox. The disease that results from the virus, called brainpox in the novel, has symptoms that mimic those of Lesch–Nyhan syndrome and the common cold. The book is divided between descriptions of the virus and the government's attempt to stop the imminent threat posed by it.\n\nThe book is divided into 6 sections. The first section, called \"Trial\", starts with a teenage girl named Kate Moran who dies violently one day in school. The next section, titled \"1969\", describes tests done in the 1960s by the U.S. government involving weaponized viruses. The third section, \"Diagnosis\", describes the autopsy of Kate Moran and introduces the key characters of Dr. Alice Austen, Mark Littleberry, and Will Hopkins. The last three sections—\"Decision\", \"Reachdeep\", and \"The Operation\"—describe these three characters' journey to discover the source of the lethal Cobra virus.\n\nThe virus described in the novel is a fictional chimera that attacks the human brain. The infective agent, code-named \"Cobra\" by the protagonists, is a recombinant virus made from modified variants of the nuclear polyhedrosis virus (which normally infects moths and butterflies), rhinovirus, and smallpox.\n\nThe infection initially presents common cold-like symptoms and a characteristic blistering process in the nose and mouth, before invading the nervous system. Although not as contagious as the influenza virus, it spreads rapidly through the same vectors as the common cold, mainly via airborne particulate matter coming in contact with the mucous membranes of the respiratory system. Although tussis is the primary source of these particles, the inclusion of nuclear polyhedrosis virus allows Cobra to form crystals, which can be easily processed into a fine powder.\n\nThe optic nerves of the eye, accessed through the eyelid, and olfactory nerves of the nose provide a direct pathway for the neurotropic Cobra virus to spread to the central nervous system, where the virus takes root. Once present in brain matter, the virus begins to replicate exponentially. Infected brain cells experience growth of viral crystals in their nuclei, eventually leading to lysis of the cell. The brain stem, which controls the basic functions of life, is heavily affected by this growth. The Cobra virus also knocks out the gene for the enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HGPRT), whose absence causes Lesch-Nyhan syndrome. As a result, patients experience both autocannibalistic urges and increased aggression toward others. These neurological symptoms develop within a matter of hours, eventually resulting in death due to the severe damage to the brain stem. Cobra is so aggressive in its growth that autopsies reveal a brain almost liquefied by cell lysis.\n\nPresident Bill Clinton was reportedly sufficiently impressed by the scenarios described in the book that he asked aides and officials for closer study and suggested more funding for research into bioterrorism threats. However, there is some variation in the assorted accounts of this episode in his administration: about his degree of concern, who was asked to help, the depth of inquiry, the formal status of his orders, and the magnitude of expense involved.\n"}
{"id": "202810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202810", "title": "The Teenage Liberation Handbook", "text": "The Teenage Liberation Handbook\n\nThe Teenage Liberation Handbook: How to Quit School and Get a Real Life and Education, which was published in 1991 by Grace Llewellyn, is a book focusing on unschooling.\n\n"}
{"id": "47750609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47750609", "title": "The Tragedy of Man (film)", "text": "The Tragedy of Man (film)\n\nThe Tragedy of Man () is a 2011 Hungarian animated drama film directed by Marcell Jankovics, starring Tibor Szilágyi, Mátyás Usztics, Ágnes Bertalan, Tamás Széles and Piroska Molnár. The narrative is set in several different eras, spanning from the Biblical creation to 50,000 BC and from there to a distant future ahead of our time, and follows Adam, Eve, and Lucifer as they explore humanity and the meaning of life. Each segment has a different visual style to reflect the art of the respective time periods. The film is based on the 1861 play \"The Tragedy of Man\" by Imre Madách.\n\nThe film went into production in 1988 but encountered difficulties as the production model for Hungarian cinema changed. The segments were financed individually and sometimes exhibited independently at film festivals and on Hungarian television. After 23 years in production, the finished film premiered in 2011.\n\nGod creates the universe. Lucifer mocks God for the shortcomings of humanity, which he predicts will soon aspire to become God. As the primaeval spirit of negation, he claims to be as old as God and demands his share of the world, which he is granted in the Tree of Knowledge and the Tree of Immortality.\n\nLucifer tempts Adam and Eve eat the forbidden fruit. Expelled from the Garden of Eden and abandoned by God, Adam reasons that he is no longer obliged to show God any gratitude. He decides to live from his own strength alone. Lucifer offers Adam to experience his own future, and takes him from the Stone Age into the future, throughout human history.\n\nIn ancient Egypt, Adam is Pharaoh Djoser in 2650 BC who falls in love with Eve in the form of a slave woman. Adam abolishes slavery, but Lucifer argues that it would be futile, as history would prove. Adam is taken to ancient Greece, where democracy has resulted in corruption and foul political play. Adam appears as Miltiades in 489 BC and is sentenced to death after the masses have been agitated against him. Disillusioned, Adam is taken to ancient Rome in 67 AD where he and Lucifer enjoy themselves with gladiator games and prostitutes. As decadence makes the civilization fall apart, Adam and Eve encounter Saint Peter and then Jesus, and turn to God, who gives them a message of love and fraternity. Adam becomes Tancred, Prince of Galilee in 1096 AD but is disgusted by the East–West Schism and pettiness within the church. He falls in love with Eve who is locked inside a monastery.\n\nAdam is then Johannes Kepler in Prague, 1608. He seeks eternal wisdom by studying the physical world while his wife is unfaithful. Adam becomes Georges Danton during the French Revolution in Paris, 1794. Eve appears as an aristocrat who is guillotined and as a prostitute who revels in the revolutionary terror. Danton is eventually put before the National Convention and executed for conspiring with the aristocracy. Once again in the body of Kepler, Adam wakes up from a dream. He recognizes that ideas are more powerful and long-lasting than individual men. Adam and Lucifer visit Victorian London in 1897 as unnamed Englishmen, which Adam initially finds impressive but Lucifer argues is decayed on a spiritual level, as everything has become a commodity. Adam tries to court Eve and is eventually able to seduce her, right after World War I, with the help of jewels and a Gypsy fortune teller. When social unrest erupts in the 20th century, Adam wishes for a society ruled after scientific principles for the common good.\n\nLucifer brings Adam to a future egalitarianist world state. Although initially positive, Adam immediately regrets the disappearance of nations, as he thinks people should have a past and an identity to hold on to. Animals and plants which are not useful are extinct and the useful ones have been genetically modified. Adam questions the materialist worldview and is arrested for criminal thinking. Eve appears as a mother who is punished for refusing to let society educate her child. Adam and Lucifer travel further to a dehumanized future in space. Adam is at first unsettled, but when the spirit of Earth urges him to return, he proclaims that his spirit can live beyond the body. On the verge of annihilation, Adam changes his mind and promises to keep striving on Earth. He accepts mortality and man's struggle.\n\nIn a distant ice age, the last remains of humanity are dying. The few people Adam encounters are deformed savages. Lucifer argues that they do not differ in nature from humans of any other era.\n\nAdam wakes up in his cave 50,000 BC. He joins Lucifer on a cliff, where he argues for the existence of free will, while Lucifer reminds him of the futility of human ambition. Adam argues that he can still go against God by committing suicide. As he is about to leap from the cliff, Eve finds him and tells him that she is pregnant. God urges Adam to keep having faith. Adam decides to follow God's word and accepts struggle as an end in itself.\n\n\nMarcell Jankovics wrote the screenplay for the film in 1983. It is based on Imre Madách's 1861 play \"The Tragedy of Man\". The film went into production in 1988 at Pannonia Film Studio. Jankovics expected a typical animated feature to take three years to produce, but since \"The Tragedy of Man\" would have twice the running time of a typical film he expected it to take six years to make. After the fall of communism in Hungary in 1989, Jankovics could no longer rely on the state-funded system he had produced his previous films within and had to seek alternative ways to finance the project.\nThe film was produced one segment at a time, after which production ceased until funding had been secured for the next segment. Just like in the original play, there is a total of 15 segments. Each of these were animated in a different visual style. Over the years, several segments were exhibited individually at film festivals and shown on the public television network Duna TV, although the majority of the material was never shown publicly until the entire film was finished.\n\nIn 2008 some funding was secured when Jankovics' 1974 short film \"Sisyphus\" was used in an American car commercial which was shown at the Super Bowl. In 2011 the film received 19.5 million forint from the culture department of the Ministry of National Resources. The total cost of the film corresponded to 600 million forint (approximately two and half million U.S. Dollars) in the exchange rate at the time of the release. After 23 years in production, the last post-production work was finished in 2011.\n\nThe film premiered on 27 November 2011 at the Anilogue International Animation Film Festival. It was released in regular Hungarian cinemas by Mozinet on 8 December 2011. The film was shown with an intermission, which made a screening last for three hours from start to finish. The film had 20,000 admissions in Hungary, of which 9,500 came from Budapest where it was screened in a single cinema. It was shown at a number of international film festivals. In June 2013 it was shown at the Facets Cinémathèque in Chicago.\n\nBill Stamets of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" wrote:\nThe animation styles vary throughout this chronology of human folly, but this wary sermon stays on message[.] ... Lucifer the interlocutor delights in the endless conflict between human reason and a hands-off God.\nStamets continued:\nTo add strains of grandeur, [Jankovics] draws on works by Bach, Mussorgsky, Respighi and Wagner. He thrills when visualizing the French Revolution as a tri-color mob in motion. Later, twisting DNA strands are depicted nearly as mystically. All told, \"The Tragedy of Man\" is illustrated theology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9118907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9118907", "title": "Uniform of the day", "text": "Uniform of the day\n\nThe Uniform of the Day, when referred to in a military sense, is the designated uniform all military personnel are required to wear on that particular day. It is often designated by the senior officer on the base.\n\nNormally the uniform is determined by the seasons (e.g. winter blues or summer whites for Navy) however, special occasions (e.g. visiting dignitaries) or weather changes may also dictate changes to the uniform of the day.\n\nThe uniform of the day instruction is broadcast over the 1MC at reveille on board U.S. Navy ships.\n"}
{"id": "1229600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1229600", "title": "Wandervogel", "text": "Wandervogel\n\nWandervogel is the name adopted by a popular movement of German youth groups from 1896 onward. The name can be translated as rambling, hiking, or wandering bird (differing in meaning from \"Zugvogel\" or migratory bird) and the ethos is to shake off the restrictions of society and get back to nature and freedom. Soon the groups split and they originated ever more organisations, which still all called themselves \"Wandervogel\", but were organisationally independent. Nonetheless the feeling was still of being a common movement, but split into several branches.\n\nThe Wandervogel movement was officially established on 4 November 1901 by Karl Fischer, a former pupil of Herman Hoffmann Fölkersamb, who had formed a study circle at the boys' Berlin-Steglitz grammar school where he was teaching in 1895. The Wandervogel soon became the pre-eminent German youth movement. It was a back-to-nature youth organization emphasizing freedom, self-responsibility, and the spirit of adventure, and took a nationalistic approach, stressing Germany's Teutonic roots.\nAfter World War I, the leaders returned disillusioned from the war. The same was true for leaders of German Scouting. So both movements started to influence each other heavily in Germany. From the \"Wandervogel\" came a stronger culture of hiking, adventure, bigger tours to farther places, romanticism and a younger leadership structure. Scouting brought uniforms, flags, more organization, more camps, and a clearer ideology. There was also an educationalist influence from Gustav Wyneken.\n\nTogether this led to the emergence of the Bündische Jugend. The \"Wandervogel\", German Scouting and the Bündische Jugend together are referred to as the German Youth Movement.\n\nThey had been around for more than a quarter of a century before National Socialists began to see an opportunity to utilize some methods and symbols of the German Youth Movement and incorporate it in the Hitler Youth.\n\nThis movement was very influential at that time. Its members were romantic and prepared to sacrifice a lot for their ideals. That is why there are many to be found on both sides in the Third Reich. Some of the \"Wandervogel\" groups had Jewish members; Jewish youth and adults had their own Wandervogel group called \"Blau-Weiss\" (\"blue-white\"), and this eventually became a Zionist youth movement; other Jewish scouting movements such as Hashomer Hatzair were influenced by the \"Wandervogel\". Other groups within the movement were anti-semitic or close to the Nazi government. Therefore, one can later find prominent members subscribing to the Third Reich and other prominent members resisting it.\n\nFrom 1933 the Nazis outlawed the \"Wandervogel\", German Scouting, the Jungenschaft, and the Bündische Jugend, along with most youth groups independent of the Hitler Youth. Only Church-affiliated groups survived, lasting until almost 1936.\n\nBefore World War II, in a context of cordial relations with Germany, and in an effort to promote healthy activities for young people throughout the country, Japan's Ministry of education launched the movement among Japanese universities, calling it the . The first WanderVogel student club was created in 1935 in Rikkyo University. It then spread to Keio University and Meiji University, and from 1937 on to several other universities around the country, especially after World War II, in the context of high economic growth and popularization of mountaineering.\n\nThe \"Wandervogel\" movement was refounded after World War II and exists in Germany to this day with around 5,000 members in many different associations, as well as in neighboring countries.\n\nIn Japan, it is now a fairly renowned student club with activities like mountaineering, sawanobori and ski touring.\n\nSome authors have seen the ethos and activities of the Wandervogel as an influence on later social movements, in particular the hippie movement which developed in the United States during the 1960s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47849771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47849771", "title": "Women's empowerment", "text": "Women's empowerment\n\n\"'Women's empowerment\" is the procedure in which women elaborate and recreate what is that they can be, do, and accomplish in a circumstance that they previously were denied. Alternatively, it is the process for women to redefine gender roles that allows for them to acquire the ability to choose between known alternatives whom have otherwise been restricted from such an ability. There are several principles defining women's empowerment such as, for one to be empowered, they must come from a position of disempowerment. Furthermore, one must acquire empowerment themselves rather than have it given to them by an external party. Other studies have found that empowerment definitions entail people having the capability to make important decisions in their lives while also being able to act on them. Lastly, empowerment and disempowerment is relative to other at a previous time; therefore, empowerment is a process, not a product.\n\nWomen empowerment has become a significant topic of discussion in development and economics. It can also point to the approaches regarding other trivialized genders in a particular political or social context.\n\nWomen's economic empowerment refers to the ability for women to enjoy their right to control and benefit from the \nresources, assets, income and their own time, as well as the ability to manage risk and improve their economic status and well being.\n\nWhile often interchangeably used, the more comprehensive concept of gender empowerment refers to people of any gender, stressing the distinction between biological and gender as a role. It thereby also refers to other marginalized genders in a\n\nEntire nations, businesses, communities and groups can benefit from the implementation of programs and policies that adopt the notion of women empowerment. Empowerment of women is a necessity for the very development of a society, since it enhances both the quality and the quantity of human resources available for development. Empowerment is one of the main procedural concerns when addressing human rights and development.\n\nScholars have identified two forms of empowerment, economic empowerment and political empowerment.\n\nEconomic empowerment increases women's agency, access to formal government programs, mobility outside the home, economic independence, and purchasing power. Policy makers are suggested to support job training to aid in entrance in the formal markets. One recommendation is to provide more formal education opportunities for women that would allow for higher bargaining power in the home. They would have more access to higher wages outside the home; and as a result, make it easier for women to get a job in the market.\n\nStrengthening women's access to property inheritance and land rights is another method used to economically empower women. This would allow them better means of asset accumulation, capital, and bargaining power needed to address gender inequalities. Often, women in developing and underdeveloped nations are legally restricted from their land on the sole basis of gender. Having a right to their land gives women a sort of bargaining power that they wouldn't normally have; in turn, they gain more opportunities for economic independence and formal financial institutions.\n\nAnother popular methodology for women's economic empowerment also includes microcredit. Microfinance institutions aim to empower women in their community by giving them access to loans that have low interest rates without the requirement of collateral. More specifically, they aim to give microcredit to women who want to be entrepreneurs. The success and efficiency of microcredit and microloans is controversial and constantly debated. Some critiques claim that microcredit alone doesn't guarantee women have control over the way it is used. Microfinance institutions don't address cultural barriers that allow men to still control household finances; as a result, microcredit may simply be transferred to the husband. Microcredit doesn't relieve women of household obligations, and even if women have credit, they don't have the time to be as active in the market as men.\n\nPolitical empowerment supports creating policies that would best support gender equality and agency for women in both the public and private spheres. Popular methods that have been suggested are to create affirmative action policies that have a quota for the number of women in policy making and parliament positions. As of 2017, the global average of women whom hold lower and single house parliament positions is 23.6 percent. Further recommendations have been to increase women's rights to vote, voice opinions, and the ability to run for office with a fair chance of being elected. Because women are typically associated with child care and domestic responsibilities in the home, they have less time dedicated to entering the labour market and running their business. Policies that increase their bargaining power in the household would include policies that account for cases of divorce, policies for better welfare for women, and policies that give women control over resources (such as property rights). However, participation is not limited to the realm of politics. It can include participation in the household, in schools, and the ability to make choices for oneself. Some theorists believe that bargaining power and agency in the household must to be achieved before one can move onto broader political participation.\n\nWomen empowerment can be measured through the Gender Empowerment Measure (GEM), which shows women's participation in a given nation, both politically and economically. GEM is calculated by tracking \"the share of seats in parliament held by women; of female legislators, senior officials and managers; and of female profession and technical workers; and the gender disparity in earned income, reflecting economic independence\". It then ranks countries given this information. Other measures that take into account the importance of female participation and equality include: the Gender Parity Index and the Gender-related Development Index (GDI).\n\nSome critiques of GEM is that it is not concerned with factors regarding society, such as gender, religion, cultural context, legal context, and violations of women's rights. Gender empowerment measure attempts to makes a consistent standardized approach to measure women's empowerment; in doing so, it has been critiqued that the GEM doesn't account for variation in historical factors, female autonomy, gender segregation, and women's right to vote.\n\nThe Gender-related Development Index (GDI) is a way in which the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) measures the inequality between genders within a country. Some critique of this measurement is that, because GDI calculations rely solely on the achievement distribution between males and females of a population, GDI doesn't measure gender inequality; rather, it measures absolute levels on income, education and health\n\nA more qualitative form of assessing women's empowerment is to identify constraints to action. This allows for the identification of power relations between genders. Because this is a participatory process, it facilitates conversation on gender discrimination. Comparing constraints on women at a later time also allows for any changes or expansion to be better identified. The evaluation of the development of women's agency allows for an evaluation of actions taken. These assessments must also be based on the action taken by women, and not external groups. External groups can help facilitate women's empowerment, but cannot bestow it on them.\n\nMany of the barriers to women's empowerment and equity lie ingrained in cultural norms. Many women feel these pressures, while others have become accustomed to being treated inferior to men. Even if legislators, NGOs, etc. are aware of the benefits women's empowerment and participation can have, many are scared of disrupting the status of the women and continue to let societal norms get in the way of development.\n\nResearch shows that the increasing access to the internet can also result in an increased exploitation of women. Releasing personal information on websites has put some women's personal safety at risk. In 2010, Working to Halt Online Abuse stated that 73% of women were victimized through such sites. Types of victimization include cyber stalking, harassment, online pornography, and flaming. Sexual harassment in particular is a large barrier for women in the workplace. It appears in almost all industries, but is most notable in the following: business, trade, banking and finance, sales and marketing, hospitality, civil service, and education, lecturing and teaching. According to the International Labour Organisation (ILO), sexual harassment is a clear form of gender discrimination based on sex, a manifestation of unequal power relations between men and women. Furthermore, the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) is urging for increased measures of protection for women against sexual harassment and violence in the workplace. 54% (272) had experienced some form of workplace sexual harassment. 79% of the victims are women; 21% were men.\n\nRecent studies also show that women face more barriers in the workplace than do men. Gender-related barriers involve sexual harassment, unfair hiring practices, career progression, and unequal pay where women are paid less than men are for performing the same job. When taking the median earnings of men and women who worked full-time, year-round, government data from 2014 showed that women made $0.79 for every dollar a man earned. The average earnings for working mothers came out to even less—$0.71 for every dollar a father made, according to a 2014 study conducted by the National Partnership for Women and Children. While much of the public discussion of the \"wage gap\" has focused around women getting equal pay for the same work as their male peers, many women struggle with what is called the \"pregnancy penalty\". The main problem is that it is difficult to measure, but some experts say that the possibility of having a baby can be enough for employers to push women back from their line. Therefore, women are put in a position where they need to make the decision of whether to maintain in the workforce or have children. This problem has sparked the debate over maternity leave in the United States.\n\nHowever, despite the struggle for equal pay in the United States, the tech industry has made progress in helping to encourage equal pay across gender. In March 2016, tech career website Dice released a study of more than 16,000 tech professionals that found that when you compare equivalent education, experience and position, there is no pay gap—and hasn't been for the last six years. This new industry is paving a way for other companies to do the same. However, this industry also struggles to employ women in executive positions. This is partially due to the barrier of sexual harassment and pregnancy that was aforementioned.\n\nSuch barriers make it difficult for women to advance in their workplace or receive fair compensation for the work they provide.\n\nIt is said that education increases \"people's self-confidence and also enables them to find better jobs and they can work shoulder to shoulder with men\". They engage in public debate and make demands on government for health care, social security and other entitlements\". In particular, education empowers women to make choices that improve their children's health, their well-being, and chances of survival. Education informs others of preventing and containing the disease, and it is an essential element of efforts to reduce malnutrition. Furthermore, it empowers women to make choices that can improve their welfare, including marrying beyond childhood and having fewer children. Crucially, education can increase women's awareness of their rights, boost their self-esteem, and provide them the opportunity to assert their rights.\n\nDespite significant improvements in recent decades, education is not universally available and gender inequalities persist. A major concern in many countries is not only the limited numbers of girls going to school but also the limited educational pathways for those that step into the classroom. More specifically, there should be more efforts to address the lower participation and learning achievement of girls in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education.\n\nThe growing access of the web in the late 20th century has allowed women to empower themselves by using various tools on the Internet. With the introduction of the World Wide Web, women have begun to use social networking sites like Facebook and Twitter for online activism. Through online activism, women are able to empower themselves by organizing campaigns and voicing their opinions for equality rights without feeling oppressed by members of society. For example, on May 29, 2013, an online campaign started by 100 female advocates forced the leading social networking website, Facebook, to take down various pages that spread hatred about women.\n\nIn recent years, blogging has also become a powerful tool for the educational empowerment of women. According to a study done by the University of California, Los Angeles, medical patients who read and write about their disease are often in a much happier mood and more knowledgeable than those who do not. By reading others' experiences, patients can better educate themselves and apply strategies that their fellow bloggers suggest.\n\nWith the easy accessibility and affordability of e-learning (electronic learning), women can now study from the comfort of their homes. By empowering themselves educationally through new technologies like e-learning, women are also learning new skills that will come in handy in today's advancing globalized world.\n\nOften times, the internet is very useful as source of empowerment for women through its creation, dispersion, and utilization of hashtags on social media. One prime example of hashtags supporting women empowerment was in 2017 when the #AintNoCinderella hashtag came into existence. This hashtag spread like wildfire on social media after Varnika Kundu (a 29-year-old woman in India) was driving home past midnight on August 4 when she was followed and harassed by two men in a SUV. Kundu was blamed for being out late at night, particularly by the BJP government Vice-President Ramveer Bhatti. This lead to women all across India and the world posting pictures of themselves out late at night with the hashtag \"#AintNoCinderella\" to show that women do not have a particular curfew to which they have to adhere to (like Cinderella did). \n\nThe UN came out with a set of goals called the Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs, to help make the world a better place. Of the 17, the fourth goal works to allow access to education for all people alike. A large effort has been made to include women in schools to better their education. Similarly, the fifth goal focuses on empowering women and girls to achieve gender equality through equal access to various types of opportunities (health care, education, work, etc.).\n\nThere are also some prominent non-profits that help empower women:\n\n\nDomestically, the U.S. empowered women through passings of laws such as allowing women to vote in 1920, banning discrimination based on gender in 1964, banning discrimination against pregnant women in 1978, etc. Additionally, the inclusion of women in politics allowed for more gender equality. The first female speaker of House, the first First Lady to run for president, and first women to serve on the Supreme Court were monumental events that proved socially the acceptance of \"subservient\" women.\n\nThe U.S. provides foreign aid to third world countries in various forms, one of which is by providing education programs. There are currently bills in Congress that work to ensure education to girls, one of which is the Protecting Girls' Access to Education Act. These are enacted with the belief that proper education will pull them out of poverty and reduce exploitation.\n\nAnother action taken on by the U.S is the PEPFAR program, initiated by the Bush administration in 2003. The U.S. spent more than $1.4 billion in funding sub-Saharan Africa during the duration of the program. This program was taken into effect in response to the global HIV/AIDS crisis, and it promoted abstinence among young girls and women. There was a partnership with DREAMS, and its main purpose with PEPFAR was to allow both girls and women to develop into Determined, Resilient, Empowered, AIDS-free, Mentored, and Safe women. However, there are criticisms that this program did not really do much to reduce HIV risk behavior, and critics such as John Dietrich worried that the context of aid enforced Western beliefs of choosing abstinence before marriage. There was and still is controversy regarding the effectiveness of this program in reducing HIV/AIDS through advocating abstinence and whether this would actually empower women in Africa.\n\n\n"}
