{"id": "41310078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41310078", "title": "Abandonment (emotional)", "text": "Abandonment (emotional)\n\nEmotional abandonment is a subjective emotional state in which people feel undesired, left behind, insecure, or discarded. People experiencing emotional abandonment may feel at a loss, cut off from a crucial source of sustenance that has been withdrawn, either suddenly, or through a process of erosion. \n\nIn a classic abandonment scenario, the severance of the emotional bond is unilateral, that is, the object of one's attachment is the one who chose to break the connection. Feeling rejected, which is a significant component of emotional abandonment, has a biological impact in that it activates the physical pain centers of the brain and can leave an emotional imprint in the brain's warning system. \n\nAbandonment has been a staple of poetry and literature since ancient times.\n\nIndividuals who experience feelings of emotional abandonment may also experience a broad range of maladaptive thoughts and behaviors (e.g., depressive symptoms, relationship avoidance or relationship dependence) that may be a significant source of difficulty in daily life, particularly in the context of interpersonal relationships and social settings. Such difficulties may impair one's ability to establish and/or maintain close and meaningful relationships with others. \nWhile such maladaptive thoughts and behaviors are sometimes present in the context of certain psychological disorders (e.g., borderline personality disorder, antisocial personality disorder, depression, anxiety disorders), not all individuals who experience feelings of emotional abandonment will meet criteria for such a psychological disorder. These individuals may function within normal limits despite the presence of these emotional difficulties\n\nFeelings of emotional abandonment alone are not enough to merit a diagnosis for a psychological disorder. Such feelings should only be considered by a mental health professional in conjunction with all available information and diagnostic criterion prior to drawing conclusions about the state of someone's mental health. When treatment is deemed appropriate by a mental health professional, there are several treatment plans that are helpful in improving maladaptive thoughts and behaviors commonly manifested in those who feel emotionally abandoned. For example, Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is effective in treating depression, anxiety disorders, and PTSD. Emotion Focused Therapy (EFT) is effective in treating depression. Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT) is effective in treating negative emotionality and impulsive behaviors commonly seen in those diagnosed with Borderline Personality Disorder. Another form of therapy that is suited to this population is Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT). ACT focuses on an individual's avoidance of painful emotions and memories. ACT techniques are designed to cultivate thought processes that are focused on being present in the moment and accepting uncomfortable or painful thoughts and feelings. Reframing maladaptive perceptions of one's thoughts to adaptive perceptions of thoughts and committing to aligning one's behaviors with one's goals and values is fundamental to ACT treatment. Just like the process of arriving at diagnostic conclusions, all modes of therapy and treatment plans should be based on individual presentation and should be evaluated by a mental health professional before beginning treatment.\n\nSeparation anxiety, a substrate of emotional abandonment, is recognized as a primary source of human distress and dysfunction. When we experience a threat or disconnection within a primary attachment, it triggers a fear response referred to as separation stress or separation anxiety. Separation stress has been the subject of extensive research in psychological and neurobiological fields, and has been shown to be a universal response to separation in the animal world. of which human beings are a part. When laboratory rat pups are separated from their mothers for periods of time, researchers measure their distress vocalizations and stress hormones to determine varying conditions of the separation response. As the rats mature, their subsequent reactive behaviors and stress hormones are reexamined and are shown to bear a striking resemblance to the depression, anxiety, avoidance behaviors, and self defeated posturing displayed by human beings known to have suffered earlier separation traumas.\n\nOwing to the neocortical component of human functioning, when human beings lose a primary relationship, they grasp its potential repercussions (i.e. they may feel uncertain about the future or fear being unable to climb out of an abyss), thus encumbering an additional layer of separation stress. To abandon is \"to withdraw one's support or help from, especially in spite of duty, allegiance, or responsibility; desert: abandon a friend in trouble.\" When the loss is due to the object's voluntary withdrawal, a common response is to feel unworthy of love. This indicates the tendency for people to blame the rejection on themselves. \"Am I unworthy of love, destined to grow old and die all alone, bereft of human connection or caring?\" Questioning one's desirability as a mate and fearing eternal isolation are among the additional anxieties incurred in abandonment scenarios. The concurrence of self devaluation and primal fear distinguish abandonment grief from most other types of bereavement.\nThe depression of abandonment grief creates a sustained type of stress that constitutes an emotional trauma which can be severe enough to leave an emotional imprint on individuals' psychobiological functioning, affecting future choices and responses to rejection, loss, or disconnection. A contributing factor to the trauma-producing event is that 'being left' triggers primal separation fear, also referred to as primal abandonment fear – the fear of being left with no one to take care of one's vital needs. Our first anxiety is a response to separation from Mother. This sensation is stored in the amygdala – a structure set deep into the brain's emotional memory system responsible for conditioning the fight/freeze/flight response to fear. Primal fear may have been initiated by birth trauma and even have some prenatal antecedents. The emotional memory system is fairly intact at or before birth and lays down traces of the sensations and feelings of the infant's separation experiences. These primitive feelings are reawakened by later events, especially those reminiscent of unwanted or abrupt separations from a source of sustenance.\n\nIn adulthood, being left arouses primal fear along with other primitive sensations which contribute to feelings of terror and outright panic. Infantile needs and urgencies reemerge and can precipitate a symbiotic regression in which individuals feel, at least momentarily, unable to survive without the lost object. People may also experience the intense stress of helplessness. When they make repeated attempts to compel their loved one to return and are unsuccessful, they feel helpless and inadequate to the task. This helplessness causes people to feel possessed of what Michael Balint calls “a limited capacity to perform the work of conquest – the work necessary to transform an indifferent object into a participating partner.” According to Balint, feeling one's ‘limited capacity’ is traumatic in that it produces a fault line in the psyche which renders the person vulnerable to heightened emotional responses within primary relationships.\n\nAnother factor contributing to the traumatic conditions is the stress of losing one's background object. A background object is someone on whom individuals have come to rely in ways they did not realize until the object is no longer present. For instance, the relationship served as a mutual regulatory system. Multiple psychobiological systems helped to maintain individuals’ equilibrium. As members of a couple, they became external regulators for one another. They were attuned on many levels: their pupils dilated in synchrony, they echoed one another's speech patterns, movements, and even cardiac and EEG rhythms. As a couple, they functioned like a mutual bio-feedback system, stimulating and modulating each other's bio rhythms, responding to one another's pheromones, and addicting to the steady trickle of endogenous opiates induced by the relationship. When the relationship ends, the many processes it helped to regulate go into disarray. As the emotional and bio-physiological effects mount, the stressful process is heightened by the knowledge that it was not you, but your loved one who chose withdraw from the bond. This knowledge may cause people to interpret their intense emotional responses to the disconnection as evidence of their putative weakness and ‘limited capacity to perform the work of conquest’.\n\nSome people who experience the traumatic stress of abandonment go on to develop post traumatic symptoms. Post traumatic symptoms associated with abandonment include a sequela of heightened emotional reactions (ranging from mild to severe) and habituated defense mechanisms (many of which have become maladaptive) to perceived threats or disruptions to one's sense of self or to one's connections.\n\nThere are various predisposing psycho-biological and environmental factors that go into determining whether one's earlier emotional trauma might lead to the development of a true clinical picture of post-traumatic stress disorder. One factor has to do with variation in certain brain structures. According to Jerome Kagan, some people are born with a locus coeruleus that tends to produce higher concentrations of norepinephrine, a brain chemical involved in arousal of your body's self-defense response. This would lower their threshold for becoming aroused and make them more likely to become anxious when they encounter stresses in life that are reminiscent of childhood separations and fears, hence making them more prone to becoming posttraumatic.\n\nThe most distinguishing symptoms of BPD are marked sensitivity to rejection or criticism, and intense fear of possible abandonment. Overall, the features of BPD include unusually intense sensitivity in relationships with others, difficulty regulating emotions, and impulsivity. Fear of abandonment may lead to overlapping dating relationships as a new relationship is developed to protect against abandonment in the existing relationship. Other symptoms may include feeling unsure of one's personal identity, morals, and values; having paranoid thoughts when feeling stressed; depersonalization; and, in moderate to severe cases, stress-induced breaks with reality or psychotic episodes.\n\nAutophobia is the specific phobia of isolation; a morbid fear of being egotistical, or a dread of being alone or isolated. Sufferers need not be physically alone, but just to believe that they are being ignored or unloved.\n"}
{"id": "53188837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53188837", "title": "Access to public information in Turkey", "text": "Access to public information in Turkey\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right of access to information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right of access to public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law.\n\nNo specific right of access to information was enshrined in the 1982 Turkish Constitution that in Article 26 instead refers to the right of free expression, including the \"right to receive information\". In the 2001 amended Constitution, Article 74 specifically refers to the right to information establishing that everyone has the right to obtain information. Following the 2010 Constitutional amendments, the right to appeal to the Ombudsperson is also provided.\nAccess to public information is regulated by the Law on the Right to Information, Law No: 4982 of 2004. The law was introduced in the framework of the negotiations for accession to the European Union.\n\nOn September 21, 2016, the Open Government Partnership (OGP) Steering Committee designated the inactive status of Turkey with regard to the OGP action plan which included, among other objectives, an improvement of the possibility to access public information for Turkish citizens. The Steering Committee found that the Turkish government acted contrary to OGP process for two consecutive action plan cycles.\n\nIn addition to Law No: 4982, in 2004 a circular by the Prime Minister on “The exercise of the right of petition and access to information” was also enacted (Circular No. 25356). It identifies the basis of this policy in the principle called “citizen oriented approach in public services”.\n\nAccording to Law No: 4982, the law applies to any natural and legal person who are entitled to apply to the institutions by way of exercising the right to information. Foreign residents can exercise the right “on the condition that the information that they require is related to them or the field of their activities and on the basis of the principle of reciprocity”.\n\nThe law applies to “any written, printed or copied file, document, book, journal, brochure, etude, letter, software, instruction, sketch, plan, film, photograph, tape and video cassette, map of the institutions and the information, news and other data that are recorded and saved in electronic format that are within the scope of (the) law”.\n\nGovernment bodies are required to respond in 15 working days. They must provide either a certified copy of the document or when it is not possible to make a copy, applicants can examine them at the institution.\n\nInitially, the Right to Information Assessment (Review) Council (\"Bilgi Edinme Değerlendirme Kurulu\"- BEDK) provided very poor information about its activities and decisions. It started to publish all information on its decision only in 2008 with the launch of its website. The BEDK jurisdiction on appeals for denials to requests of information was originally limited to cases relating to national security and state economic interests. In November 2005, the Law was amended in order to allow any kind of appeal. According to the 2016 EC progress report, the Board of Review of Access to Information was effective in its role of reviewing applicants' appeals and in publishing related decisions online. The report also notes that, however, there is no quality assurance in the responses given to applicants.\n\nAccording to Decision No. 2016/1 of August 4, 2016 on “Applications for Information on Measures and Transactions within the Context of Emergency State Decentralization Laws”, the applicants who ask for information and documents relating with (i) persons who are removed from the public service and (ii) institutions and organizations which are closed down under the Decree Laws in the State of Emergency Law, are excluded from the scope of the right to obtain information.\n\nAccording to the 2016 European Commission (EC) Progress Report on Turkey, the Law on access to public information is not fully aligned with international standards. Another problem highlighted by the EC is the failure to adopt pending legislation on state and trade secrets, which prevents to balance between confidentiality and transparency when assessing freedom of information requests.\n\nUnder Articles No. 20- 28 of Law No. 4982, the right to information can be restricted if such information refers to:\n\nIn practice, protection of state secrets, commercial secrets and privacy were among the most common grounds for rejecting a request. According to an expert, all these conditions largely nullify the legal provisions which are intended to protect the right to public information in Turkey.\n\nThe exercise of the right of access to public information is particularly problematic in the Turkish context, where the management of public affairs is characterized by a secretive approach to power and politics, and several problems affect the exercise of the right of free expression and media freedom. The situation has been deteriorating with the state of exception following the attempted coupt of July 15, 2016, entailing severe limitations to media freedom and to dissemination of information, press freedom limitations, sanctions against newspapers and journalists, censorship and self-censorship.\n\nA right to information request can be made using the BIMER website (\"Başbakanlık İletişim Merkezi\"), active since 2006.\n\nIn 2014, only 2,7% of requests for access to information were rejected, against 3,4% in 2013. The share of appeals refused by the Board of Review of the Access to Information fell from 50,6% in 2013 to 36,3% in 2014. According to the European Commission, more than 2 million applications a year for access to information were submitted both in 2015 and 2016. The percentage of requests refused remained small, approximately 3.7% up to June 2016 compared with 3% in 2015.\n\nRegarding the right to access information for lawyers, especially when they are assisting defendants accused with terrorism charges, they face serious problems. Their access to documents pertaining to the case can be restricted before the trial.\n\nOn September 21, 2016, the Steering Committee of the Open Government Partnership (OGP) designated the inactive status of Turkey, for acting contrary to OGP process for two consecutive action plan cycles. The OGP action plan included, among other objectives, an improvement of the possibility to access public information for Turkish citizens. The decision follows a resolution approved unanimously by the OGP Steering Committee during their May 4, 2016 ministerial level meeting in Cape Town, South Africa. That resolution called for the government of Turkey to take steps to re-engage in OGP, including the development of a National Action with broad civil society participation by September 1, 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2598", "title": "Adversarial system", "text": "Adversarial system\n\nThe adversarial system or adversary system is a legal system used in the common law countries where two advocates represent their parties' case or position before an impartial person or group of people, usually a jury or judge, who attempt to determine the truth and pass judgment accordingly. It is in contrast to the inquisitorial system used in some civil law systems (i.e. those deriving from Roman law or the Napoleonic code) where a judge investigates the case.\n\nThe adversarial system is the two-sided structure under which criminal trial courts operate that puts the prosecution against the defense.\n\nSome writers trace the process to the medieval mode of trial by combat, in which some litigants, notably women, were allowed a champion to represent them. The use of the jury in the common law system seems to have fostered the adversarial system and provides the opportunity for both sides to argue their point of view.\n\nAs an accused is not compelled to give evidence in a criminal adversarial proceeding, they may not be questioned by a prosecutor or judge unless they choose to do so. However, should they decide to testify, they are subject to cross-examination and could be found guilty of perjury. As the election to maintain an accused person's right to silence prevents any examination or cross-examination of that person's position, it follows that the decision of counsel as to what evidence will be called is a crucial tactic in any case in the adversarial system and hence it might be said that it is a lawyer's manipulation of the truth. Certainly, it requires the skills of counsel on both sides to be fairly equally pitted and subjected to an impartial judge.\n\nBy contrast, while defendants in most civil law systems can be compelled to give a statement, this statement is not subject to cross-examination by the prosecutor and not given under oath. This allows the defendant to explain his side of the case without being subject to cross-examination by a skilled opposition. However, this is mainly because it is not the prosecutor but the judges who question the defendant. The concept of \"cross\"-examination is entirely due to adversarial structure of the common law.\n\nJudges in an adversarial system are impartial in ensuring the fair play of due process, or fundamental justice. Such judges decide, often when called upon by counsel rather than of their own motion, what evidence is to be admitted when there is a dispute; though in some common law jurisdictions judges play more of a role in deciding what evidence to admit into the record or reject. At worst, abusing judicial discretion would actually pave the way to a biased decision, rendering obsolete the judicial process in question—rule of law being illicitly subordinated by rule of man under such discriminating circumstances.\n\nThe rules of evidence are also developed based upon the system of objections of adversaries and on what basis it may tend to prejudice the trier of fact which may be the judge or the jury. In a way the rules of evidence can function to give a judge limited inquisitorial powers as the judge may exclude evidence he/she believes is not trustworthy or irrelevant to the legal issue at hand.\n\nAll evidence must be relevant and not hearsay evidence.\n\nPeter Murphy in his \"Practical Guide to Evidence\" recounts an instructive example. A frustrated judge in an English (adversarial) court finally asked a barrister after witnesses had produced conflicting accounts, 'Am I never to hear the truth?' 'No, my lord, merely the evidence', replied counsel.\n\nThe name \"adversarial system\" may be misleading in that it implies it is only within this type of system in which there are opposing prosecution and defense. This is not the case, and both modern adversarial and inquisitorial systems have the powers of the state separated between a prosecutor and the judge and allow the defendant the right to counsel. Indeed, the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Article 6 requires these features in the legal systems of its signatory states.\n\nThe right to counsel in criminal trials was initially not accepted in some adversarial systems. It was believed that the facts should speak for themselves, and that lawyers would just blur the matters. As a consequence, it was only in 1836 that England gave suspects of felonies the formal right to have legal counsel (the Prisoners' Counsel Act 1836), although in practice English courts routinely allowed defendants to be represented by counsel from the mid-18th century. During the second half of the 18th century advocates like Sir William Garrow and Thomas Erskine, 1st Baron Erskine helped usher in the adversarial court system used in most common law countries today. In the United States, however, personally retained counsel have had a right to appear in all federal criminal cases since the adoption of the Constitution and in state cases at least since the end of the Civil War, although nearly all provided this right in their state constitutions or laws much earlier. Appointment of counsel for indigent defendants was nearly universal in federal felony cases, though it varied considerably in state cases. It was not until 1963 that the U.S. Supreme Court declared that legal counsel must be provided at the expense of the state for indigent felony defendants, under the federal Sixth Amendment, in state courts. See \"Gideon v. Wainwright\", .\n\nOne of the most significant differences between the adversarial system and the inquisitorial system occurs when a criminal defendant admits to the crime. In an adversarial system, there is no more controversy and the case proceeds to sentencing; though in many jurisdictions the defendant must have allocution of her or his crime; an obviously false confession will not be accepted even in common law courts. By contrast, in an inquisitorial system, the fact that the defendant has confessed is merely one more fact that is entered into evidence, and a confession by the defendant does not remove the requirement that the prosecution present a full case. This allows for plea bargaining in adversarial systems in a way that is difficult or impossible in inquisitional system, and many felony cases in the United States are handled without trial through such plea bargains.\n\nIn some adversarial legislative systems, the court is permitted to make inferences on an accused's failure to face cross-examination or to answer a particular question. This obviously limits the usefulness of silence as a tactic by the defense. In England the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 allowed such inferences to be made for the first time in England and Wales (it was already possible in Scotland under the rule of criminative circumstances). This change was disparaged by critics as an end to the 'right to silence', though in fact an accused still has the right to remain silent and cannot be compelled to take the stand. The criticism reflects the idea that if the accused can be inferred to be guilty by exercising their right to silence, it no longer confers the protection intended by such a right. In the United States, the Fifth Amendment has been interpreted to prohibit a jury from drawing a negative inference based on the defendant's invocation of his right not to testify, and the jury must be so instructed if the defendant requests.\n\nLord Devlin in \"The Judge\" said: \"It can also be argued that two prejudiced searchers starting from opposite ends of the field will between them be less likely to miss anything than the impartial searcher starting at the middle.\"\n\nThere are many differences in the way cases are reviewed. It is questionable that the results would be different if cases were conducted under the differing approaches; in fact no statistics exist that can show whether or not these systems would come to the same results. However, these approaches are often a matter of national pride and there are opinions amongst jurists about the merits of the differing approaches and their drawbacks as well.\n\nProponents of the adversarial system often argue that the system is more fair and less prone to abuse than the inquisitional approach, because it allows less room for the state to be biased against the defendant. It also allows most private litigants to settle their disputes in an amicable manner through discovery and pre-trial settlements in which non-contested facts are agreed upon and not dealt with during the trial process.\n\nIn addition, adversarial procedure defenders argue that the inquisitorial court systems are overly institutionalized and removed from the average citizen. The common law trial lawyer has ample opportunity to uncover the truth in the courtroom. Most cases that go to trial are carefully prepared through a discovery process that aids in the review of evidence and testimony before it is presented to judge or jury. The lawyers involved have a very good idea of the scope of agreement and disagreement of the issues to present at trial which develops much in the same way as the role of investigative judges.\n\nProponents of inquisitorial justice dispute these points. They point out that many cases in adversarial systems, and most cases in the United States, are actually resolved by plea bargain or settlement. Plea bargain as a system does not exist in an inquisitorial system. Many legal cases in adversarial systems, and most in the United States, do not go to trial, which may lead to injustice when the defendant has an unskilled or overworked attorney, which is likely to be the case when the defendant is poor. In addition, proponents of inquisitorial systems argue that the plea bargain system causes the participants in the system to act in perverse ways, in that it encourages prosecutors to bring charges far in excess of what is warranted and defendants to plead guilty even when they believe that they are not.\n\n"}
{"id": "1367647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1367647", "title": "Band sum", "text": "Band sum\n\nIn geometric topology, a band sum of two \"n\"-dimensional knots \"K\" and \"K\" along an (\"n\" + 1)-dimensional 1-handle \"h\" called a \"band\" is an \"n\"-dimensional knot \"K\" such that:\n\n\n\"K\" is the \"n\"-dimensional knot obtained by this surgery.\n\nA band sum is thus a generalization of the usual connected sum of knots.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33696818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33696818", "title": "Bank secrecy", "text": "Bank secrecy\n\nBanking secrecy, alternately known as financial privacy, banking discretion, or bank safety, is a conditional agreement between a bank and its clients that all foregoing activities remain secure, confidential, and private. While some banking institutions voluntarily impose banking secrecy institutionally, others operate in regions where the practice is legally mandated and protected (e.g. off-shore financial centers). Almost all banking secrecy standards prohibit the disclosure of client information to third parties without consent or an accepted criminal complaint. Additional privacy is provided to select clients via numbered bank accounts or underground bank vaults. Most often associated with banking in Switzerland, banking secrecy is prevalent in Luxembourg, Monaco, Hong Kong, Singapore, Ireland, and the Cayman Islands, among other off-shore banking institutions.\n\nOtherwise known as bank–client confidentiality or banker–client privilege, the practice was started by Italian merchants during the 1600s near Northern Italy (a region that would become the Italian-speaking region of Switzerland). Geneva bankers established secrecy socially and through civil law in the French-speaking region during the 1700s. Swiss banking secrecy was first codified with the Banking Act of 1934 which made it a crime to disclose client information to third parties without their consent. The law, coupled with a stable Swiss currency and international neutrality, prompted large capital flight to private Swiss accounts. During the 1940s, numbered bank accounts were introduced creating an enduring principle of bank secrecy that continues to be considered one of the main aspects of private banking globally. Advances in financial cryptography (via public-key cryptography) could make it possible to use anonymous electronic money and anonymous digital bearer certificates for financial privacy and anonymous Internet banking, given enabling institutions and secure computer systems. \n\nNumbered bank accounts, used by Swiss banks and other offshore banks located in tax havens, have been accused by the international community of being a major instrument of the underground economy, facilitating tax evasion and money laundering. After Al Capone's 1931 condemnation for tax evasion, according to journalist Lucy Komisar:\n\nmobster Meyer Lansky took money from New Orleans slot machines and shifted it to accounts overseas. The Swiss secrecy law two years later assured him of G-man-proof-banking. Later, he bought a Swiss bank and for years deposited his Havana casino take in Miami accounts, then wired the funds to Switzerland via a network of shell and holding companies and offshore accounts.\n\nEconomist and Nobel Prize laureate Joseph Stiglitz, told Komisar:\n\nYou ask why, if there's an important role for a regulated banking system, do you allow a non-regulated banking system to continue? It's in the interest of some of the moneyed interests to allow this to occur. It's not an accident; it could have been shut down at any time. If you said the US, the UK, the major G7 banks will not deal with offshore bank centers that don't comply with G7 banks regulations, these banks could not exist. They only exist because they engage in transactions with standard banks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10280220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10280220", "title": "Civil resistance", "text": "Civil resistance\n\nCivil resistance is political action that relies on the use of nonviolent resistance by civil groups to challenge a particular power, force, policy or regime. Civil resistance operates through appeals to the adversary, pressure and coercion: it can involve systematic attempts to undermine the adversary's sources of power, both domestic and international. Forms of action have included demonstrations, vigils and petitions; strikes, go-slows, boycotts and emigration movements; and sit-ins, occupations, and the creation of parallel institutions of government. Civil resistance movements' motivations for avoiding violence are generally related to context, including a society's values and its experience of war and violence, rather than to any absolute ethical principle. Cases of civil resistance can be found throughout history and in many modern struggles, against both tyrannical rulers and democratically elected governments. The phenomenon of civil resistance is often associated with the advancement of democracy.\n\nCivil resistance is a long-standing and widespread phenomenon in human history. Several works on civil resistance adopt a historical approach to the analysis of the subject. Cases of civil resistance, both successful and unsuccessful, include:\n\n\nNumerous other campaigns, both successful and unsuccessful, could be included in a longer listing. In 1967 Gene Sharp produced a list of 84 cases. He followed this with further surveys. In 2013 Maciej Bartkowski authored a long list of cases in the past 200 years, arranged alphabetically by country.\n\nIt is not easy to devise a method of proving the relative success of different methods of struggle. Often there are problems in identifying a given campaign as successful or otherwise. In 2008 Maria J. Stephan and Erica Chenoweth produced a widely-noted article on \"Why Civil Resistance Works\", the most thorough and detailed analysis (to that date) of the rate of success of civil resistance campaigns, as compared to violent resistance campaigns. After looking at over 300 cases of both types of campaign, from 1900 to 2006, they concluded that \"nonviolent resistance methods are likely to be more successful than violent methods in achieving strategic objectives\". Their article (later developed into a book) noted particularly that \"resistance campaigns that compel loyalty shifts among security forces and civilian bureaucrats are likely to succeed\".\n\nOn the other hand, the evidence of several of the 2011 uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa appears to provide contrasting pathways by which this logic may fail to materialise, with splits in the armed forces contributing towards civil war in Libya and Syria, and a shift in armed forces loyalty in Egypt failing to contribute towards enduring democratic reform. Criticisms of the central thesis of the book on \"Why Civil Resistance Works\" have included: \n\nSome leaders of civil resistance struggles have urged the use of non-violent methods for primarily ethical reasons, while others have emphasized practical considerations. Some have indicated that both of these types of factor have to be taken into account – and that they necessarily overlap.\n\nIn his chapter on \"Pilgrimage to Nonviolence\" Martin Luther King gave a notably multi-faceted account of the various considerations, experiences and influences that constituted his \"intellectual odyssey to nonviolence\". By 1954 this had led to the intellectual conviction that \"nonviolent resistance was one of the most potent weapons available to oppressed people in their quest for social justice.\"\n\nSome have opted for civil resistance when they were in opposition to the government, but then have later, when in government, adopted or accepted very different policies and methods of action. For example, in one of her BBC Reith Lectures, first broadcast in July 2011, Aung San Suu Kyi, the pro-democracy campaigner in Myanmar (formerly Burma), stated: \"Gandhi's teachings on non-violent civil resistance and the way in which he had put his theories into practice have become part of the working manual of those who would change authoritarian administrations through peaceful means. I was attracted to the way of non-violence, but not on moral grounds, as some believe. Only on practical political grounds.\" Subsequently, as State Counsellor of Myanmar from 2016 onwards, she incurred much criticism, especially in connection with the failure to prevent, and to condemn, the killings and expulsions of the Rohingya people in Rakhine State.\n\nThe experience of civil resistance suggests that it can at least partially replace other forms of power. Some have seen civil resistance as offering, potentially, a complete alternative to power politics. The core vision is of non-violent methods replacing armed force in many or all of its forms.\n\nSeveral writers, while sharing the vision of civil resistance as progressively overcoming the use of force, have warned against a narrowly instrumental view of non-violent action. For example, Joan V. Bondurant, a specialist on the Gandhian philosophy of conflict, indicated concern about \"the symbolic violence of those who engage in conflict with techniques which they, at least, perceive to be nonviolent.\" She saw Gandhian satyagraha as a form of \"creative conflict\" and as \"contrasted both to violence and to methods not violent or just short of violence\".\n\nIt is generally difficult in practice to separate out entirely the use of civil resistance and power-political considerations of various kinds. One frequently-encountered aspect of this problem is that regimes facing opposition taking the form of civil resistance often launch verbal attacks on the opposition in terms designed to suggest that civil resistance is simply a front for more sinister forces. It has sometimes been attacked as being planned and directed from abroad, and as intimately connected to terrorism, imperialism, communism etc. A classic case was the Soviet accusation that the 1968 Prague Spring, and the civil resistance after the Soviet-led invasion of August 1968, were the result of Western machinations. Similarly, President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, in March 2011, accused \"enemies\" of using \"very sophisticated tools\" to undermine Syria's stability; and President Vladimir Putin of Russia, in speeches in 2014, described events in Ukraine and the Arab countries as foreign-influenced. Such accusations of sinister power-political involvement are often presented without convincing evidence.\n\nThere can be some more plausible connections between civil resistance and other forms of power. Although civil resistance can sometimes be a substitute for other forms of power, it can also operate in conjunction with them. Such conjunction is never problem-free. Michael Randle has identified a core difficulty regarding strategies that seek to combine the use of violent and non-violent methods in the same campaign: \"The obvious problem about employing a mixed strategy \"in the course of an actual struggle\" is that the dynamics of military and civil resistance are at some levels diametrically opposed to each other.\" However, the connections between civil resistance and other forms of power are not limited to the idea of a \"mixed strategy\". They can assume many forms. Eight ways in which civil resistance can in practice relate to other forms of power are identified here, with examples in each case:\n\nThe promise of civil resistance as a means of opposing oppressive rule has led to many proposals that countries might rely, in whole or in part, on civil resistance as a means of defence against external attack (for example, invasion) and internal usurpation (for example, coup d'état). Preparations for such resistance are sometimes seen as potentially helping to deter such threats in the first place. Various terms have been used to describe either the policy of relying on such non-military action by a society or social group, or the general phenomenon of sustained country-wide campaigns against outside attack or dictatorial rule. These terms - all near-synonyms - include \"defence by civil resistance\", \"non-violent defence\", \"civilian defence\", \"civilian-based defence\", and \"social defence\". For further information and references to some relevant literature, see social defence.\n\nThe term is not new. Gandhi used it in many of his writings. In 1935 he wrote: \"... I found that even civil disobedience failed to convey the full meaning of the struggle. I therefore adopted the phrase civil resistance.\" It is a near-synonym for nonviolent resistance, civil disobedience, people power and satyagraha. While each of these terms has its uses and connotations, \"civil resistance\" is one appropriate term to use in cases where the resistance has a civic quality, relating to a society as a whole; where the action involved is not necessarily disobedience, but instead involves supporting the norms of a society against usurpers; where the decision not to use violent methods is not based on a general philosophy of nonviolence, but on a wide range of prudential, ethical and legal considerations; and where the technical and communications infrastructure of modern civil societies provides a means of organizing resistance. Because of such considerations, the term has been used in this century in many analyses in academic journals.\n\nWhat exactly are the advantages of the term \"civil resistance\", as distinct from its near-synonyms \"non-violent action\" and \"non-violent resistance\"? All these terms have merits, and refer to largely the same phenomena. Indeed, there is a long history, in many languages, of using a wide variety of terms to describe these phenomena. The term \"civil resistance\" has been used increasingly for two main reasons:\n\nThere have been concerns that the term \"civil resistance\" might on occasion be misused, or at least stretched in a highly controversial way, to encompass acts of violence. Thus, arising from experience within the anti-globalization movement, one participant-observer has seen \"new forms of civil resistance\" as being associated with a problematic departure from a previously more widely shared commitment to maintaining non-violent discipline. Because of these concerns, those who have used the term \"civil resistance\" have tended to emphasise its non-violent character, and to use it in addition to – and not in substitution of – such terms as \"non-violent resistance\".\n\n\n\nOther works related to the topic\n\n"}
{"id": "16069052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16069052", "title": "Conditionality principle", "text": "Conditionality principle\n\nThe conditionality principle is a Fisherian principle of statistical inference that Allan Birnbaum formally defined and studied in his 1962 JASA article. Informally, the conditionality principle can be taken as the claim that experiments which were not actually performed are statistically irrelevant.\n\nTogether with the sufficiency principle, Birnbaum's version of the principle implies the famous likelihood principle. Although the relevance of the proof to data analysis remains controversial among statisticians, many Bayesians and likelihoodists consider the likelihood principle foundational for statistical inference.\n\nThe conditionality principle makes an assertion about an experiment \"E\" that can be described as a mixture of several component experiments \"E\" where \"h\" is an ancillary statistic (i.e. a statistic whose probability distribution does not depend on unknown parameter values). This means that observing a specific outcome \"x\" of experiment \"E\" is equivalent to observing the value of \"h\" and taking an observation \"x\" from the component experiment \"E\".\n\nThe conditionality principle can be formally stated thus:\n\nConditionality Principle: If \"E\" is any experiment having the form of a mixture of component experiments \"E\", then for each outcome formula_1 of \"E\", [...] the evidential meaning of any outcome \"x\" of any mixture experiment \"E\" is the same as that of the corresponding outcome \"x\" of the corresponding component experiment \"E\", ignoring the over-all structure of the mixed experiment (See Birnbaum 1962). An illustration of the conditionality principle, in a bioinformatics context, is given by Barker (2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "33530541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33530541", "title": "Contingent self-esteem", "text": "Contingent self-esteem\n\nContingent self-esteem (CSE) is self-esteem based on the approval of others or on social comparisons. Certain events will shape one's self-esteem when the individual bases their self-worth on the outcome of those events. The success or failure of any situation can result in fluctuations of an individual's self-esteem. A manifestation of someone with contingent self-esteem is excessive self-consciousness. Such excessive self-consciousness, as occurs with contingent self-esteem, involves extreme criticism of one's self, concern of how they are perceived by their peers, and feelings of discomfort in social settings. One's self-esteem is directly affected when domains of contingencies are used to measure one's self worth. Self-esteem can also be affected when an individual compares their appearance or success to that of someone else or when their self-esteem is contingent to the relationships around them.\n\nAccording to William James in his journal \"The Principles of Psychology\", self-esteem can be a stable and unstable trait. An individual's self-esteem fluctuates in response to different events. Men and women alike are also selective about which events affect their self-esteem. This instability of self-esteem is the result of having contingent self worth. Good and bad events can momentarily raise or lower feelings of self-esteem. Those fluctuations can cause an individual to seek those positive feelings associated with success and avoid the negative feelings associated with failure. Therefore, contingencies of self-worth have control over one's behavior.\n\nStudents who base their self-esteem on their academic successes use their school work to prove their intelligence. Since failures in domains of contingency have negative effects on one's self-esteem, students will avoid failure by increasing their effort, by abandoning their goals and becoming completely unmotivated, or by making excuses to lessen the impact on their self-esteem. In Jennifer Crocker's journal \"Contingencies of self-worth: Implications for self-regulation and psychological vulnerability\", the author states that contingencies of self-worth are used as a source of motivation and a psychological vulnerability. This means that contingencies of self-worth can cause one to strive for success or weaken one's self-esteem. Contingencies of self-worth are associated with validation of one's abilities in the domain of contingency, and students spend more time on activities related to their specific domains of contingency. When individuals have self-validation goals, mistakes, failures, criticism, and negative feedback are seen as threats rather than learning opportunities. A solution would be to replace self-validating goals with learning goals. Adopting goals that are good for the individual as well as others around them may lessen the impact of contingent self-esteem.\n\nPeople with high levels of CSE are prone to making social comparisons based on appearance . As a result, these individuals more than often feel diminished. Appearance Related Social Comparisons are comparisons of one's perceived appearance to the appearance of other people. Those who make social comparisons base their feelings of self-worth on meeting social standards and expectations. Appearance Related Social Comparisons can affect one's self-esteem in both positive and negative ways. On the positive side, appearance related social comparisons can help develop and maintain one's level of self worth. On the negative side, appearance related social comparisons can cause the decline of an individual's self worth and value. Women who measure their self-worth based on cultural standards may be affected more by social comparisons, particularly when they have a low Self perception of attractiveness.\n\nImages in the media are notorious for creating unrealistic standards of beauty, most especially for women. Comparisons with media standards can cause an individual with high levels of CSE to acquire feelings of inadequacy. Mass media provides examples of beauty that are often unattainable by the average male or female. Although this is true in most cases, everyone is not equally affected by unrealistic standards of beauty in the media and social comparisons with the people they are surrounded by. One's Self perception of appearance is how an individual measures his/her own beauty. Women with lower Self perceptions of appearance tend to be more dissatisfied after viewing \"ideal\" images of women in the media. This same issue can also be seen in the male population but isn't as prevalent and widespread as in the female population. In the journal \"Media Images and Women's Self-evaluations\", researchers D. Henderson-King, Henderson-King, and Hoffman demonstrated that the importance that women place on physical attractiveness is associated with images displayed in the media.\n\nBody image is a very important developmental concern for children and young adults. Contingent self-esteem in this area is shown when one's self-image is contingent upon the approval of others, meeting social expectations, or other criteria. Individuals with higher levels of contingent self-esteem are more likely to view acceptance from others as contingent upon the ideal standard for body image. Individuals who base their self worth upon contingencies of outer image often spend a lot of time trying to reach standards for appearance and obtain social acceptance. This constant self-evaluation has a negative relationship on one's mental health.\n\nBody mass index (BMI) has a great influence on the attitudes and behaviors in men and women. Women in the westernized society believe being thin is the cultural norm, while men are thriving to gain weight and muscles. Both men and women are striving for a lower BMI in order to fit in with \"society\". Joel R. Grossbard, Christine M. Lee, Clayton Neighbors, and Mary E. Larimer did a study to investigate gender differences in body image concerns, and the influence of contingent self-esteem on body dissatisfaction. The results proved that female college students focused more on weight/body shape, while male students focused on muscularity. When the association of contingent self-esteem and weight/body shape was examined, evidence proved higher levels of contingent self-esteem is more strongly associated with greater concern regarding weight/body shape in females in comparison to males. In contrast, when the association of contingent self-esteem and muscularity was examined, evidence proved higher levels of contingent self-esteem is associated more with greater concern regarding muscle gain in males in comparison to females.\n\nRelationship contingent self-esteem (RCSE) is a psychological disorder that has been researched by Chip Knee and his colleagues at the University of Houston. RCSE is the way one determines how they feel about themselves based on the outcome of their relationship. Individuals with RCSE take problems in their relationship personally. They do not tend to think rationally about situations, which may result to them feeling bad for themselves in the end. Any setback in a relationship can lead to many negative feelings such as depression, anxiety, and changes in mood. Individuals with high levels of relationship based self-esteem are highly committed to their relationships, but become devastated when faced with challenges in their relationship. In extreme cases, they may resort to hurting or killing themselves. RCSE is seen as a negative and unhealthy factor of a relationship, which can be mediated if identified in its early stages.\n\nChip Knee and a group of researchers also studied heterosexual relationships in college and how they are affected by RCSE. They presented the results of this study in a paper entitled “Relationship Contingent Self-Esteem – The Ups and Downs of Romantic Relationship”. RCSE was present in some of these relationships; however, some levels were higher than others. Relationships with higher levels of RCSE are placed under unnecessary strain. The point of the study is to show how relationships can guide one’s thoughts, emotions, and behaviors; and the unhealthy way people attach themselves to relationships.\n"}
{"id": "37196535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37196535", "title": "Court of Appeal of Paris", "text": "Court of Appeal of Paris\n\nThe Court of Appeal of Paris () is the largest appeals court in France in terms of the number of cases brought before it.\n\nThe Court is housed in the \"Palais de Justice\" of Paris. Jacques Degrandi has been the president of the Court since 2010. \n\n"}
{"id": "21418402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21418402", "title": "Criticism of government", "text": "Criticism of government\n\nCriticism of government may refer to criticism of particular government, or of the concept of government itself. In certain cases, such as in certain monarchies and authoritarian (or sometimes totalitarian or dictatorial) governments, criticizing the government is considered criminal speech and is punished in accord which the perceived severity of the claimed crime.\n"}
{"id": "4488870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4488870", "title": "Cultural invention", "text": "Cultural invention\n\nA cultural invention is any innovation developed by people that is not a material object. Cultural inventions include sets of behaviour adopted by groups of people. They are perpetuated by being passed on to others within the group or outside it. They are also passed on to future groups and generations. Sources of cultural invention can either come from outside a specific group or from within that group.\n\nAllan Hanson, a postmodern anthropologist, believed that the analytical purpose of studying cultural inventions was not to uncover which portions of a culture's belief systems are invented, but rather to study how cultural inventions become accepted as authentic within groups. This notion has been met with criticism from within the anthropological community as well as from outside sources, and has been referred to as both politically revisionist and anti-native. The fear is that viewing cultural invention as a process which leads to something authentic and widely accepted may undermine indigenous people's traditions in addition to questioning the authority they have over their own culture.\n\nExamples of areas where cultural inventions may take place include:\n\nOne way that cultural inventions can be spread is through cultural transmission. Cultural transmission refers to the means by which culturally specific ideas and patterns of behavior are shared so that they become cultural reality. According to Marc J. Swartz, people of status within society play an important role in deciding what is understood as cultural reality. Such people have the correct kinds of skills and knowledge within society to help transmit ideas in such a way that they are accepted by society at large, and this is one method by which cultural inventions can become cultural realities.\n\nAllan Hanson proposed that several aspects of Maori culture had been invented by European scholars who were accustomed to analytical frameworks focused on long-distance migration and diffusion. Because of this, he believed that European scholars constructed the notion that a \"Great Fleet\" headed by a man named Kupe from a neighboring island was responsible for the initial discovery and peopling of New Zealand. Although Maori ancestors most likely did arrive in canoes coming from nearby islands, Hanson believed that the account of the Great Fleet was created in order to simplify various Maori traditions into a single tradition. \n\nAdditionally, in order to make the Maori seem more elevated in European eyes, scholars may have invented a cult to a god named Io. Io was thought to be a supreme being that controlled all the other gods in the Maori pantheon. The story of Io creating the world is very similar to that of the Book of Genesis in the Bible, so similar that it is believed to be of European invention. Hanson asserted that these and other elements of Maori tradition were incorporated and taken to be true by the Maori, and that they have been passed down through generations by way of oral tradition. According to Hanson, \"Io and the Great Fleet have been incorporated into Maori lore and are passed down from elders to juniors in storytelling, oratory, and other Maori contexts.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "57264039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57264039", "title": "Einstein's thought experiments", "text": "Einstein's thought experiments\n\nA hallmark of Albert Einstein's career was his use of visualized thought experiments () as a fundamental tool for understanding physical issues and for elucidating his concepts to others. Einstein's thought experiments took diverse forms. In his youth, he mentally chased beams of light. For special relativity, he employed moving trains and flashes of lightning to explain his most penetrating insights. For general relativity, he considered a person falling off a roof, accelerating elevators, blind beetles crawling on curved surfaces and the like. In his debates with Niels Bohr on the nature of reality, he proposed imaginary devices intended to show, at least in concept, how the Heisenberg uncertainty principle might be evaded. In a profound contribution to the literature on quantum mechanics, Einstein considered two particles briefly interacting and then flying apart so that their states are correlated, anticipating the phenomenon known as quantum entanglement. \n\nA thought experiment is a logical argument or mental model cast within the context of an imaginary (hypothetical or even counterfactual) scenario. A scientific thought experiment, in particular, may examine the implications of a theory, law, or set of principles with the aid of fictive and/or natural particulars (demons sorting molecules, cats whose lives hinge upon a radioactive disintegration, men in enclosed elevators) in an idealized environment (massless trapdoors, absence of friction). They describe experiments that, except for some specific and necessary idealizations, could conceivably be performed in the real world.\n\nAs opposed to \"physical\" experiments, thought experiments do not report new empirical data. They can only provide conclusions based on deductive or inductive reasoning from their starting assumptions. Thought experiments invoke particulars that are irrelevant to the generality of their conclusions. It is the invocation of these particulars that give thought experiments their experiment-like appearance. A thought experiment can always be reconstructed as a straightforward argument, without the irrelevant particulars. John D. Norton, a well-known philosopher of science, has noted that \"a good thought experiment is a good argument; a bad thought experiment is a bad argument.\"\n\nWhen effectively used, the irrelevant particulars that convert a straightforward argument into a thought experiment can act as \"intuition pumps\" that stimulate readers' ability to apply their \"intuitions\" to their understanding of a scenario. Thought experiments have a long history. Perhaps the best known in the history of modern science is Galileo's demonstration that falling objects must fall at the same rate regardless of their masses. This has sometimes been taken to be an actual physical demonstration, involving his climbing up the Leaning Tower of Pisa and dropping two heavy weights off it. In fact, it was a logical demonstration described by Galileo in \"Discorsi e dimostrazioni matematiche\" (1638).\n\nEinstein had a highly visual understanding of physics. His work in the patent office \"stimulated [him] to see the physical ramifications of theoretical concepts.\" These aspects of his thinking style inspired him to fill his papers with vivid practical detail making them quite different from, say, the papers of Lorentz or Maxwell. This included his use of thought experiments.\n\nLate in life, Einstein recalled\n\nEinstein's recollections of his youthful musings are widely cited because of the hints they provide of his later great discovery. However, Norton has noted that Einstein's reminiscences were probably colored by a half-century of hindsight. Norton lists several problems with Einstein's recounting, both historical and scientific:\n\nRather than the thought experiment being at all incompatible with aether theories (which it is not), the youthful Einstein appears to have reacted to the scenario out of an intuitive sense of wrongness. He felt that the laws of optics should obey the principle of relativity. As he grew older, his early thought experiment acquired deeper levels of significance: Einstein felt that Maxwell's equations should be the same for all observers in inertial motion. From Maxwell's equations, one can deduce a single speed of light, and there is nothing in this computation that depends on an observer's speed. Einstein sensed a conflict between Newtonian mechanics and the constant speed of light determined by Maxwell's equations.\n\nRegardless of the historical and scientific issues described above, Einstein's early thought experiment was part of the repertoire of test cases that he used to check on the viability of physical theories. Norton suggests that the real importance of the thought experiment was that it provided a powerful objection to emission theories of light, which Einstein had worked on for several years prior to 1905.\n\nIn the very first paragraph of Einstein's seminal 1905 work introducing special relativity, he writes: \nThis opening paragraph recounts well-known experimental results obtained by Michael Faraday in 1831. The experiments describe what appeared to be two different phenomena: the \"motional EMF\" generated when a wire moves through a magnetic field (see Lorentz force), and the \"transformer EMF\" generated by a changing magnetic field (due to the Maxwell–Faraday equation). James Clerk Maxwell himself drew attention to this fact in his 1861 paper \"On Physical Lines of Force\". In the latter half of Part II of that paper, Maxwell gave a separate physical explanation for each of the two phenomena.\n\nAlthough Einstein calls the asymmetry \"well-known\", there is no evidence that any of Einstein's contemporaries considered the distinction between motional EMF and transformer EMF to be in any way odd or pointing to a lack of understanding of the underlying physics. Maxwell, for instance, had repeatedly discussed Faraday's laws of induction, stressing that the magnitude and direction of the induced current was a function only of the relative motion of the magnet and the conductor, without being bothered by the clear distinction between conductor-in-motion and magnet-in-motion in the underlying theoretical treatment.\n\nYet Einstein's reflection on this experiment represented the decisive moment in his long and tortuous path to special relativity. Although the equations describing the two scenarios are entirely different, there is no measurement that can distinguish whether the magnet is moving, the conductor is moving, or both.\n\nIn a 1920 review on the \"Fundamental Ideas and Methods of the Theory of Relativity\" (unpublished), Einstein related how disturbing he found this asymmetry: \nEinstein needed to extend the relativity of motion that he perceived between magnet and conductor in the above thought experiment to a full theory. For years, however, he did not know how this might be done. The exact path that Einstein took to resolve this issue is unknown. We do know, however, that Einstein spent several years pursuing an emission theory of light, encountering difficulties that eventually led him to give up the attempt. \nThat decision ultimately led to his development of special relativity as a theory founded on two postulates of which he could be sure. Expressed in contemporary physics vocabulary, his postulates were as follows:\n\nEinstein's wording of the second postulate was one with which nearly all theorists of his day could agree. His wording is a far more intuitive form of the second postulate than the stronger version frequently encountered in popular writings and college textbooks.\n\nThe topic of how Einstein arrived at special relativity has been a fascinating one to many scholars: A lowly, twenty-six year old patent officer (third class), largely self-taught in physics and completely divorced from mainstream research, nevertheless in the year 1905 produced four extraordinary works (\"Annus Mirabilis\" papers), only one of which (his paper on Brownian motion) appeared related to anything that he had ever published before.\n\nEinstein's paper, \"On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies\", is a polished work that bears few traces of its gestation. Documentary evidence concerning the development of the ideas that went into it consist of, quite literally, only two sentences in a handful of preserved early letters, and various later historical remarks by Einstein himself, some of them known only second-hand and at times contradictory.\nIn regards to the relativity of simultaneity, Einstein's 1905 paper develops the concept vividly by carefully considering the basics of how time may be disseminated through the exchange of signals between clocks. In his popular work, \"Relativity: The Special and General Theory,\" Einstein translates the formal presentation of his paper into a thought experiment using a train, a railway embankment, and lightning flashes. The essence of the thought experiment is as follows: \n\nA routine supposition among historians of science is that, in accordance with the analysis given in his 1905 special relativity paper and in his popular writings, Einstein discovered the relativity of simultaneity by thinking about how clocks could be synchronized by light signals. The Einstein synchronization convention was originally developed by telegraphers in the middle 19th century. The dissemination of precise time was an increasingly important topic during this period. Trains needed accurate time to schedule use of track, cartographers needed accurate time to determine longitude, while astronomers and surveyors dared to consider the worldwide dissemination of time to accuracies of thousandths of a second. Following this line of argument, Einstein's position in the patent office, where he specialized in evaluating electromagnetic and electromechanical patents, would have exposed him to the latest developments in time technology, which would have guided him in his thoughts towards understanding the relativity of simultaneity.\n\nHowever, all of the above is supposition. In later recollections, when Einstein was asked about what inspired him to develop special relativity, he would mention his riding a light beam and his magnet and conductor thought experiments. He would also mention the importance of the Fizeau experiment and the observation of stellar aberration. \"They were enough\", he said. He never mentioned thought experiments about clocks and their synchronization.\n\nThe routine analyses of the Fizeau experiment and of stellar aberration, that treat light as Newtonian corpuscles, do not require relativity. But problems arise if one considers light as waves traveling through an aether, which are resolved by applying the relativity of simultaneity. It is entirely possible, therefore, that Einstein arrived at special relativity through a different path than that commonly assumed, through Einstein's examination of Fizeau's experiment and stellar aberration.\n\nWe therefore do not know just how important clock synchronization and the train and embankment thought experiment were to Einstein's development of the concept of the relativity of simultaneity. We do know, however, that the train and embankment thought experiment was the preferred means whereby he chose to teach this concept to the general public.\n\nIn his unpublished 1920 review, Einstein related the genesis of his thoughts on the equivalence principle: \n\nThe realization \"startled\" Einstein, and inspired him to begin an eight-year quest that led to what is considered to be his greatest work, the theory of general relativity. Over the years, the story of the falling man has become an iconic one, much embellished by other writers. In most retellings of Einstein's story, the falling man is identified as a painter. In some accounts, Einstein was inspired after he witnessed a painter falling from the roof of a building adjacent to the patent office where he worked. This version of the story leaves unanswered the question of why Einstein might consider his observation of such an unfortunate accident to represent the happiest thought in his life.\nEinstein later refined his thought experiment to consider a man inside a large enclosed chest or elevator falling freely in space. While in free fall, the man would consider himself weightless, and any loose objects that he emptied from his pockets would float alongside him. Then Einstein imagined a rope attached to the roof of the chamber. A powerful \"being\" of some sort begins pulling on the rope with constant force. The chamber begins to move \"upwards\" with a uniformly accelerated motion. Within the chamber, all of the man's perceptions are consistent with his being in a uniform gravitational field. Einstein asked, \"Ought we to smile at the man and say that he errs in his conclusion?\" Einstein answered no. Rather, the thought experiment provided \"good grounds for extending the principle of relativity to include bodies of reference which are accelerated with respect to each other, and as a result we have gained a powerful argument for a generalised postulate of relativity.\" \n\nThrough this thought experiment, Einstein addressed an issue that was so well known, scientists rarely worried about it or considered it puzzling: Objects have \"gravitational mass,\" which determines the force with which they are attracted to other objects. Objects also have \"inertial mass,\" which determines the relationship between the force applied to an object and how much it accelerates. Newton had pointed out that, even though they are defined differently, gravitational mass and inertial mass always seem to be equal. But until Einstein, no one had conceived a good explanation as to why this should be so. From the correspondence revealed by his thought experiment, Einstein concluded that \"it is impossible to discover by experiment whether a given system of coordinates is accelerated, or whether...the observed effects are due to a gravitational field.\" This correspondence between gravitational mass and inertial mass is the \"equivalence principle\".\n\nAn extension to his accelerating observer thought experiment allowed Einstein to deduce that \"rays of light are propagated curvilinearly in gravitational fields.\" \n\nMany myths have grown up about Einstein's relationship with quantum mechanics. Freshman physics students are aware that Einstein explained the photoelectric effect and introduced the concept of the photon. But students who have grown up with the photon may not be aware of how revolutionary the concept was for his time. The best-known factoids about Einstein's relationship with quantum mechanics are his statement, \"God does not play dice\" and the indisputable fact that he just didn't like the theory in its final form. This has led to the general impression that, despite his initial contributions, Einstein was out of touch with quantum research and played at best a secondary role in its development. Concerning Einstein's estrangement from the general direction of physics research after 1925, his well-known scientific biographer, Abraham Pais, wrote:\nIn hindsight, we know that Pais was incorrect in his assessment.\n\nEinstein was arguably the greatest single contributor to the \"old\" quantum theory.\n\nTherefore, Einstein before 1925 originated most of the key concepts of quantum theory: light quanta, wave-particle duality, the fundamental randomness of physical processes, the concept of indistinguishability, and the probability density interpretation of the wave equation. In addition, Einstein can arguably be considered the father of solid state physics and condensed matter physics. He provided a correct derivation of the blackbody radiation law and sparked the notion of the laser.\n\nWhat of \"after\" 1925? In 1935, working with two younger colleagues, Einstein issued a final challenge to quantum mechanics, attempting to show that it could not represent a final solution. Despite the questions raised by this paper, it made little or no difference to how physicists employed quantum mechanics in their work. Of this paper, Pais was to write:\nIn contrast to Pais' negative assessment, this paper, outlining the EPR paradox, is currently among the top ten papers published in Physical Review, and is the centerpiece of the development of quantum information theory, which has been termed the \"third quantum revolution.\" \n\nEinstein did not like the direction in which quantum mechanics had turned after 1925. Although excited by Heisenberg's matrix mechanics, Schroedinger's wave mechanics, and Born's clarification of the meaning of the Schroedinger wave equation (\"i.e.\" that the absolute square of the wave function is to be interpreted as a probability density), his instincts told him that something was missing. In a letter to Born, he wrote:\nThe Solvay Debates between Bohr and Einstein began in dining-room discussions at the \"Fifth Solvay International Conference on Electrons and Photons\" in 1927. Einstein's issue with the new quantum mechanics was not just that, with the probability interpretation, it rendered invalid the notion of rigorous causality. After all, as noted above, Einstein himself had introduced random processes in his 1916 theory of radiation. Rather, by defining and delimiting the maximum amount of information obtainable in a given experimental arrangement, the Heisenberg uncertainty principle denied the existence of any knowable reality in terms of a complete specification of the momenta and description of individual particles, an objective reality that would exist whether or not we could ever observe it. \n\nOver dinner, during after-dinner discussions, and at breakfast, Einstein debated with Bohr and his followers on the question whether quantum mechanics in its present form could be called complete. Einstein illustrated his points with increasingly clever thought experiments intended to prove that position and momentum could in principle be simultaneously known to arbitrary precision. For example, one of his thought experiments involved sending a beam of electrons through a shuttered screen, recording the positions of the electrons as they struck a photographic screen. Bohr and his allies would always be able to counter Einstein's proposal, usually by the end of the same day.\n\nOn the final day of the conference, Einstein revealed that the uncertainty principle was not the only aspect of the new quantum mechanics that bothered him. Quantum mechanics, at least in the Copenhagen interpretation, appeared to allow action at a distance, the ability for two separated objects to communicate at speeds greater than light. By 1928, the consensus was that Einstein had lost the debate, and even his closest allies during the Fifth Solvay Conference, for example Louis de Broglie, conceded that quantum mechanics appeared to be complete.\nAt the Sixth Solvay International Conference on Magnetism (1930), Einstein came armed with a new thought experiment. This involved a box with a shutter that operated so quickly, it would allow only one photon to escape at a time. The box would first be weighed exactly. Then, at a precise moment, the shutter would open, allowing a photon to escape. The box would then be re-weighed. The well-known relationship between mass and energy formula_2 would allow the energy of the particle to be precisely determined. With this gadget, Einstein believed that he had demonstrated a means to obtain, simultaneously, a precise determination of the energy of the photon as well as its exact time of departure from the system. \n\nBohr was shaken by this thought experiment. Unable to think of a refutation, he went from one conference participant to another, trying to convince them that Einstein's thought experiment couldn't be true, that if it were true, it would literally mean the end of physics. After a sleepless night, he finally worked out a response which, ironically, depended on Einstein's general relativity. Consider the illustration of Einstein's light box:\n\nAfter finding his last attempt at finding a loophole around the uncertainty principle refuted, Einstein quit trying to search for inconsistencies in quantum mechanics. Instead, he shifted his focus to the other aspects of quantum mechanics with which he was uncomfortable, focusing on his critique of action at a distance. His next paper on quantum mechanics foreshadowed his later paper on the EPR paradox.\n\nEinstein was gracious in his defeat. The following September, Einstein nominated Heisenberg and Schroedinger for the Nobel Prize, stating, \"I am convinced that this theory undoubtedly contains a part of the ultimate truth.\"\n\nEinstein's fundamental dispute with quantum mechanics wasn't about whether God rolled dice, whether the uncertainty principle allowed simultaneous measurement of position and momentum, or even whether quantum mechanics was complete. It was about reality. Does a physical reality exist independent of our ability to observe it? To Bohr and his followers, such questions were meaningless. All that we can know are the results of measurements and observations. It makes no sense to speculate about an ultimate reality that exists beyond our perceptions.\n\nEinstein's beliefs had evolved over the years from those that he had held when he was young, when, as a logical positivist heavily influenced by his reading of David Hume and Ernst Mach, he had rejected such unobservable concepts as absolute time and space. Einstein believed: \nEinstein considered that realism and localism were fundamental underpinnings of physics. After leaving Nazi Germany and settling in Princeton at the Institute for Advanced Studies, Einstein began writing up a thought experiment that he had been mulling over since attending a lecture by Léon Rosenfeld in 1933. Since the paper was to be in English, Einstein enlisted the help of the 46-year-old Boris Podolsky, a fellow who had moved to the Institute from Caltech; he also enlisted the help of the 26-year-old Nathan Rosen, also at the Institute, who did much of the math. The result of their collaboration was the four page EPR paper, which in its title asked the question \"Can Quantum-Mechanical Description of Physical Reality be Considered Complete?\" \n\nAfter seeing the paper in print, Einstein found himself unhappy with the result. His clear conceptual visualization had been buried under layers of mathematical formalism.\n\nEinstein's thought experiment involved two particles that have collided or which have been created in such a way that they have properties which are correlated. The total wave function for the pair links the positions of the particles as well as their linear momenta. The figure depicts the spreading of the wave function from the collision point. However, observation of the position of the first particle allows us to determine precisely the position of the second particle no matter how far the pair have separated. Likewise, measuring the momentum of the first particle allows us to determine precisely the momentum of the second particle. \"In accordance with our criterion for reality, in the first case we must consider the quantity P as being an element of reality, in the second case the quantity Q is an element of reality.\"\n\nEinstein concluded that the second particle, which we have never directly observed, must have at any moment a position that is real and a momentum that is real. Quantum mechanics does not account for these features of reality. Therefore, quantum mechanics is not complete. It is known, from the uncertainty principle, that position and momentum cannot be measured at the same time. But even though their values can only be determined in distinct contexts of measurement, can they both be definite at the same time? Einstein concluded that the answer must be yes.\n\nThe only alternative, claimed Einstein, would be to assert that measuring the first particle instantaneously affected the reality of the position and momentum of the second particle. \"No reasonable definition of reality could be expected to permit this.\"\n\nBohr was stunned when he read Einstein's paper and spent more than six weeks framing his response, which he gave exactly the same title as the EPR paper. The EPR paper forced Bohr to make a major revision in his understanding of complementarity in the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics.\n\nPrior to EPR, Bohr had maintained that disturbance caused by the act of observation was the physical explanation for quantum uncertainty. In the EPR thought experiment, however, Bohr had to admit that \"there is no question of a mechanical disturbance of the system under investigation.\" On the other hand, he noted that the two particles were one system described by one quantum function. Furthermore, the EPR paper did nothing to dispel the uncertainty principle. \n\nLater commentators have questioned the strength and coherence of Bohr's response. As a practical matter, however, physicists for the most part did not pay much attention to the debate between Bohr and Einstein, since the opposing views did not affect one's ability to apply quantum mechanics to practical problems, but only affected one's interpretation of the quantum formalism. If they thought about the problem at all, most working physicists tended to follow Bohr's leadership.\n\nSo stood the situation for nearly 30 years. Then, in 1964, John Stewart Bell made the groundbreaking discovery that Einstein's local realist world view made experimentally verifiable predictions that would be in conflict with those of quantum mechanics. Bell's discovery shifted the Einstein–Bohr debate from philosophy to the realm of experimental physics. Bell's theorem showed that, for any local realist formalism, there exist limits on the predicted correlations between pairs of particles in an experimental realization of the EPR thought experiment. In 1972, the first experimental tests were carried out. Successive experiments improved the accuracy of observation and closed loopholes. To date, it is virtually certain that local realist theories have been falsified.\n\nSo Einstein was wrong. But it has several times been the case that Einstein's \"mistakes\" have foreshadowed and provoked major shifts in scientific research. Such, for instance, has been the case with his proposal of the cosmological constant, which Einstein considered his greatest blunder, but which currently is being actively investigated for its possible role in the accelerating expansion of the universe. In his Princeton years, Einstein was virtually shunned as he pursued the unified field theory. Nowadays, innumerable physicists pursue Einstein's dream for a \"theory of everything.\"\n\nThe EPR paper did not prove quantum mechanics to be incorrect. What it did prove was that quantum mechanics, with its \"spooky action at a distance,\" is completely incompatible with commonsense understanding. Furthermore, the effect predicted by the EPR paper, \"quantum entanglement\", has inspired approaches to quantum mechanics different from the Copenhagen interpretation, and has been at the forefront of major technological advances in quantum computing, quantum encryption, and quantum information theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "43944251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43944251", "title": "Electronic Poet", "text": "Electronic Poet\n\nElectronic Poet, also known as E.P. (Electronic Poet), is an outdoor 1984 sculpture by Keith Jellum, located above the sidewalk on Southwest Morrison Street, between 9th and 10th Avenues in downtown Portland, Oregon. The abstract piece is made of bronze and an LED light board which displays poems programmed in a loop. It is administered by the Regional Arts & Culture Council.\n\nThe sculpture measures x x and is made of bronze and an LED light board. It displays curated collections of poems programmed in an \"evolving\" loop, intended to be rotated every six months. Selections of Jellum's favorite poems from around the world have featured American poets born before 1990, European, Native American and Northwestern poets, and Oregon place names, among others. The artist wanted to create \"opportunities for moments of reflection within the urban landscape\".\n\nThe Smithsonian Institution categorizes the sculpture as abstract. Smithsonian lists the parking garage at the intersection of Southwest 10th and Yamhill as the work's owner, while 'cultureNOW' says it is part of the City of Portland and Multnomah County Public Art Collection courtesy of the Regional Arts & Culture Council. \"Electronic Poet\" was funded by the city's Percent for Art program and is administered by the Regional Arts & Culture Council.\n\n\"Dr. Know\" (Marty Smith) of \"Willamette Week\" emphasized that the sculpture does not compose the text it displays and said its six-month rotation schedule \"does not appear to be religiously observed\". Of the work's introduction, in the form of the text \"I am E.P.\" being displayed approximately every ten minutes, Smith hypothesized: \"Since \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\" came out in 1982, possibly the Poet’s name was a play on the then-recent sci-fi blockbuster about another technologically advanced being with a wide, flat head. Possibly, but I hope not.\" The sculpture has been included in walking tours of Portland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "537634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537634", "title": "Ethical dilemma", "text": "Ethical dilemma\n\nAn ethical dilemma or ethical paradox is a decision-making problem between two possible moral imperatives, neither of which is unambiguously acceptable or preferable. The complexity arises out of the situational conflict in which obeying one would result in transgressing another. \nSometimes called ethical paradoxes in moral philosophy, ethical dilemmas may be invoked to refute an ethical system or moral code, or to improve it so as to resolve the paradox.\n\nAn ethical dilemma is a decision making problem between two possible moral imperatives, neither of which is unambiguously acceptable or preferable. It is sometimes called an ethical paradox in moral philosophy.\n\n\n\n\nEthical dilemmas can be solved in various ways, for example by showing that the claimed situation is only apparent and does not really exist (thus is not a paradox logically), or that the solution to the ethical dilemma involves choosing the greater good and lesser evil (as discussed in value theory), or that the whole framing of the problem omits creative alternatives (such as peacemaking), or (more recently) that situational ethics or situated ethics must apply because the case cannot be removed from context and still be understood. \"See also case-based reasoning on this process.\" An alternative to situational ethics is graded absolutism.\n\nA popular ethical conflict is that between an imperative or injunction not to steal and one to care for a family that you cannot afford to feed without stolen money. Debates on this often revolve around the availability of alternate means of income or support such as a social safety net, charity, etc. The debate is in its starkest form when framed as stealing food. Under an ethical system in which stealing is always wrong and letting one's family die from starvation is always wrong, a person in such a situation would be forced to commit one wrong to avoid committing another, and be in constant conflict with those whose view of the acts varied.\n\nHowever, there are no legitimate ethical systems in which stealing is more wrong than letting one's family die. Ethical systems do in fact allow for, and sometimes outline, tradeoffs or priorities in decisions. Resolving ethical dilemmas is rarely simple or clearcut and very often involves revisiting similar dilemmas that recur within societies.\n\nAccording to some philosophers and sociologists, e.g. Karl Marx and marxist ethics, it is the different life experience of people and the different exposure of them and their families in these roles (the rich constantly robbing the poor, the poor in a position of constant begging and subordination) that creates social class differences. In other words, ethical dilemmas can become political and economic factions that engage in long-term recurring struggles.\n\n"}
{"id": "44736909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44736909", "title": "Getting lost", "text": "Getting lost\n\nGetting lost is the occurrence of a person or animal losing spatial reference. This situation consists of two elements: the feeling of disorientation and a spatial component. While \"getting lost\", \"being lost\" or \"totally lost\", etc. are popular expressions for someone in a desperate situation (perhaps not literally lost), getting lost is also a positive term for a goal some travellers have in exploring without a plan.\n\nPsychology and neuroscience help to understand the underlying processes which take place before, during and after getting lost. Getting lost is an aspect of behavioral geography, in which human wayfinding and cognitive and environmental factors play a role. For successful travel, it is necessary to be able to identify origin and destination, to determine turn angles, to identify segment lengths and directions of movement, to recognize on route and distant landmarks. This information is required to plot a course designed to reach a destination (previously known or unknown) or to return to a home base after wandering. If a destination is known but is not directly connected by a path, road, or track to the origin, successful travel may involve search and exploration, spatial updating of one's location, finding familiar landmarks, recognition of segment length and sequencing, identification of a frame of reference. Human movement is often guided by external aids (cartographic maps, charts, compasses, pedometers, and the like).\n\nGetting lost is particularly problematic for children (who have not yet developed tools and strategies for maintaining their bearings) and for the elderly, particularly those experiencing the onset of dementia. Such individuals \"can get lost while trying to find their local shop – due to their diminishing memory they can forget where the shop is, or where they live and why they went out of their house in the first place\". People experiencing dementia also get lost more easily in poor visibility conditions because the mind fails to appropriately fill in cues as to missing landmarks. Getting lost in unfamiliar terrain can lead even an adult with a healthy mind to panic and engage in unthinking behaviors that make the situation even worse. The tendency of the mind to seek patterns and familiar signs can contribute to this in two ways. First the lost person may mistake features of the terrain for markers that were seen before they became lost, creating a false sense of orientation that may lead the lost person to pursue routes that take them even further off course. Second, the lost person may mistake such features for markers that were seen \"after\" they became lost, creating a false sense that they have made a circle and returned to an earlier point of their effort to find their bearings.\n\nThere have been some historically notable instances of people getting lost and either being rescued or dying. George Shannon, the youngest adult member of the Lewis and Clark Expedition got lost on two occasions after being separated from the expedition. On August 26, 1804, he was sent to retrieve two pack horses; he was separated from the party for sixteen days and nearly starved, as he went without food for twelve days except for some grapes and rabbits. At first he thought he was behind the expedition, so he sped up thinking he could catch up. Then, getting hungry, he went downstream to look for a trading party he could stay with. Finally John Colter was sent to find him. The second time was on August 6, 1805, when the expedition was at the Three Forks. Shannon was dispatched up a fork the party had named Wisdom (the middle fork was named Jefferson and the placid fork, Philanthropy). He rejoined the party after three days by backtracking to the forks and following the trail of the others.\n\nJohn Muir wrote in his journals of an occasion when a visiting artist named Billy Simms \"went forth to sketch while I was among the glaciers, and got lost - was thirty-six hours without food\". Mentally ailing Church of England mission priest Alexander Mackonochie died after getting lost on December 14, 1887, while walking in the Forest of Mamore, near Loch Leven, Scotland: the circumstances were later commemorated in a poem by William McGonagall. In September 2014, Soviet and Russian mathematician Alexey Chervonenkis got lost in Losiny Ostrov National Park; a later search operation found him dead near Mytishchi, a suburb of Moscow.\n\nPeople are sometimes depicted in fiction and literature as getting lost, with substantial consequences. For example, due to \"the physical structure of Rome, whose streets were notoriously labyrinthine\", it has been observed that \"getting lost in Rome was staple of travel narratives\". The experience of getting lost is also a commonly reported theme of dreams.\n"}
{"id": "42602780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42602780", "title": "Global waste trade", "text": "Global waste trade\n\nThe global waste trade is the international trade of waste between countries for further treatment, disposal, or recycling. Toxic or hazardous wastes are often exported from developed countries to developing countries, also known as countries of the Global South. Therefore, the burden of the toxicity of wastes from Western countries falls predominantly onto developing countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America.\nThe World Bank Report \"What a Waste: A Global Review of Solid Waste Management\", describes the amount of solid waste produced in a given country. Specifically, countries which produce more solid waste are more economically developed and more industrialized. The report explains that \"[g]enerally, the higher the economic development and rate of urbanization, the greater the amount of solid waste produced.” Therefore, countries in the Global North, which are more economically developed and urbanized, produce more solid waste than Global South countries.\n\nCurrent international trade flows of waste follow a pattern of waste being produced in the Global North and being exported to and disposed of in the Global South. Multiple factors affect which countries produce waste and at what magnitude, including geographic location, degree of industrialization, and level of integration into the global economy.\n\nNumerous scholars and researchers have linked the sharp increase in waste trading and the negative impacts of waste trading to the prevalence of neoliberal economic policy. With the major economic transition towards neoliberal economic policy in the 1980s, the shift towards “free-market” policy has facilitated the sharp increase in the global waste trade. Henry Giroux, Chair of Cultural Studies at McMaster University, gives his definition of neoliberal economic policy: “Neoliberalism ...removes economics and markets from the discourse of social obligations and social costs. ...As a policy and political project, neoliberalism is wedded to the privatization of public services, selling off of state functions, deregulation of finance and labor, elimination of the welfare state and unions, liberalization of trade in goods and capital investment, and the marketization and commodification of society.” Given this economic platform of privatization, neoliberalism is based on expanding free-trade agreements and establishing open-borders to international trade markets. Trade liberalization, a neoliberal economic policy in which trade is completely deregulated, leaving no tariffs, quotas, or other restrictions on international trade, is designed to further developing countries’ economies and integrate them into the global economy. Critics claim that although free-market trade liberalization was designed to allow any country the opportunity to reach economic success, the consequences of these policies have been devastating for Global South countries, essentially crippling their economies in a servitude to the Global North. Even supporters such as the International Monetary Fund, “progress of integration has been uneven in recent decades” \n\nSpecifically, developing countries have been targeted by trade liberalization policies to import waste as a means of economic expansion. The guiding neoliberal economic policy argues that the way to be integrated into the global economy is to participate in trade liberalization and exchange in international trade markets. Their claim is that smaller countries, with less infrastructure, less wealth, and less manufacturing ability, should take in hazardous wastes as a way to increase profits and stimulate their economies.\n\nCurrent supporters of global waste trade argue that importing waste is an economic transaction which can benefit countries with little to offer the global economy. Countries which do not have the production capacity to manufacture high quality products can import waste to stimulate their economy.\n\nLawrence Summers, former President of Harvard University and Chief Economist of the World Bank, issued a confidential memo arguing for global waste trade in 1991. The memo stated:\n\n\"I think the economic logic behind dumping a load of toxic waste in the lowest wage country is impeccable and we should face up to that… I’ve always thought that countries in Africa are vastly under polluted; their air quality is probably vastly inefficiently low compared to Los Angeles… Just between you and me shouldn't the World Bank be encouraging more migration of the dirty industries to the Least Developed Countries?\"\n\nThis position, which is mainly motivated by economics and financial profit in particular, demonstrates the main argument for global waste trade. The Cato Institute published an article supporting global waste trade suggesting that “there is little evidence that hazardous wastes, which are often chronic carcinogens, contribute to death rates in developing countries.” Elaborating on this point, the article argues that “people in developing countries would rationally accept increased exposure to hazardous pollutants in exchange for opportunities to increase their productivity—and, hence, their income.”\n\nOverall, the argument for global waste trade rests largely upon a perception that developing countries need to further their economic development. Supporters suggest that in engaging in global waste trade, developing countries of the Global South will expand their economies and increase profits.\n\nCritics of global waste trade claim that lack of regulation and failed policies have allowed developing nations to become toxic dump yards for hazardous waste. The ever-increasing amounts of hazardous waste being shipped to developing countries increases the disproportionate risk that the people in these nations face. Critics of the effects of the global waste trade emphasize the enormous amount of hazardous wastes that people in poorer countries must deal with. They highlight the fact that most of the world’s hazardous wastes are produced by Western countries (the United States and Europe), yet the people who suffer negative health effects from these wastes are from poorer countries that did not produce the waste.\n\nPeter Newell, Professor of Development Studies, argues that “environmental inequality reinforces and, at the same time reflects, other forms of hierarchy and exploitation along lines of class, race and gender.” Arguing that the detrimental effects of hazardous waste trade affect the disadvantaged more than others, critics of global waste trade suggest that the implications of dumping hazardous waste has significant consequences for People of Color, women, and low-income people in particular.\n\nCritiquing the global waste trade for reproducing inequality on a global scale, many activists, organizers, and environmentalists from regions affected in the Global South have vocalized their disappointment with global waste trade policies. Evo Morales, the first indigenous Amerindian President of Bolivia, argues against the current economic system forcing the exploitation of his country and people. He claims:\"If we want to save the planet earth, to save life and humanity, we have a duty to put an end to the capitalist system. Unless we put an end to the capitalist system, it is impossible to imagine that there will be equality and justice on this planet earth. This is why I believe that it is important to put an end to the exploitation of human beings and to the pillage of natural resources, to put an end to destructive wars for markets and raw materials, to the plundering of energy, particularly fossil fuels, to the excessive consumption of goods and to the accumulation of waste. The capitalist system only allows us to heap up waste. Jean Francois Kouadio, an African native living near a toxic dump site in the Ivory Coast, explains his experience with the effects of toxic substances lingering throughout his community. With major Western corporations dumping their toxic wastes in the Ivory Coast, Kuoadio has lost two children to the effects of toxic wastes. He describes the loss of his second daughter Ama Grace, and how the doctors \"said she suffered from acute glycemia caused by the toxic waste.\"\n\nIn addition to critics from the Global South, researchers and scholars in the West have begun critiquing the uneven distribution of negative effects these hazardous waste dumpings are causing. Dorceta Taylor, Professor at the University of Michigan, argues how Women of Color in the United States are disproportionately affected by these policies: \"Women of color have been at the forefront of the struggle to bring attention to the issues that are devastating minority communities – issues such as hazardous waste disposal; exposure to toxins; ...Their communities, some of the most degraded environments ... are repositories of the waste products of capitalist production and excessive consumption. As a result, they have been in the vanguard of the struggle for environmental justice; they are the founders of environmental groups, grassroots activists, researchers, conference organizers, workshop leaders, lobbyists, and campaign and community organizers.\"\n\nT.V. Reed, Professor of English and American Studies at Washington State University, argues that the correlation between historical colonialism and toxic colonialism is based on perceptions of indigenous land as ‘waste.’ He argues that Western cultures have deemed indigenous land as “underdeveloped” and “empty,” and that the people inhabiting it are therefore less “civilized.” Using the historical premises of colonialism, toxic colonialism reproduces these same arguments by defining Global South land as expendable for Western wastes.\n\nToxic colonialism, defined as the process by which “underdeveloped states are used as inexpensive alternatives for the export or disposal of hazardous waste pollution by developed states,” is the core critique against the global waste trade. Toxic colonialism represents the neocolonial policy which continues to maintain global inequality today through unfair trade systems. Toxic colonialism uses the term colonialism because “the characteristics of colonialism, involving economic dependence, exploitation of labour, and cultural inequality are intimately associated within the new realm of toxic waste colonialism.” \n\nElectronic waste, also known as e-waste, refers to discarded electrical or electronic devices. A rapidly growing surplus of electronic waste around the world has resulted from quickly evolving technological advances, changes in media (tapes, software, MP3), falling prices, and planned obsolescence. An estimated 50 million tons of e-waste are produced each year, the majority of which comes from the United States and Europe. Most of this electronic waste is shipped to developing countries in Asia and Africa to be processed and recycled.\n\nVarious studies have investigated the environmental and health effects of this e-waste upon the people who live and work around electronic waste dumps. Heavy metals, toxins, and chemicals leak from these discarded products into surrounding waterways and groundwater, poisoning the local people. People who work in these dumps, local children searching for items to sell, and people living in the surrounding communities are all exposed to these deadly toxins.\n\nOne city suffering from the negative results of the hazardous waste trade is Guiyu, China, which has been called the electronic waste dump of the world. It may be the world's largest e-waste dump, with workers dismantling over 1.5 million pounds of junked computers, cell phones and other electronic devices per year.\n\nIncinerator Ash is the ash produced when incinerators burn waste in order to dispose of it. Incineration has many polluting effects which include the release of various hazardous gases, heavy metals, and sulfur dioxide.\n\nAn example of incinerator ash being dumped onto the Global South from the Global North in an unjust trade exchange is the Khian Sea waste disposal incident. Carrying 14,000 tons of ash from an incinerator in Philadelphia, the cargo ship, Khian Sea, was to dispose of its waste. However, upon being rejected by The Dominican Republic, Panama, Honduras, Bermuda, Guinea Bissau, and the Dutch Antilles, the crew finally dumped a portion of the ash near Haiti. After changing the name of the ship twice to try and conceal the original identity, Senegal, Morocco, Yemen, Sri Lanka, and Singapore still banned the ship’s entry. Upon consistent rejections, the ash is believed to have been disposed of in the Atlantic and Indian Oceans. Following this disaster of handling hazardous waste, the Haitian government banned all waste imports leading a movement to recognize all of the disastrous consequences of this global waste trade. Based on the Khian Sea waste disposal incident and similar events, the Basel Convention was written to resist what is known to developing countries as ‘toxic colonialism.’ It was open for signature in March 1989 and went into effect in May 1992. The U.S. has signed the treaty, but has yet to ratify it.\n\nChemical waste is the excess and unusable waste from hazardous chemicals, mainly produced by large factories. It is extremely difficult and costly to dispose of. It poses many problems and health risks upon exposure, and must be carefully treated in toxic waste processing facilities.\n\nOne example of chemical waste being exported from the Global North onto the Global South was the event of an Italian business man seeking to avoid European economic regulations. Allegedly exporting 4,000 tons of toxic waste, containing 150 tons of polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs, the Italian businessman made $4.3 million in shipping hazardous waste to Nigeria. The Fordham Environmental Law Review published an article explaining the impacts of the toxic waste imposed on Nigeria in further detail:\n\"Mislabelling the garbage as fertilizers, the Italian company deceived a retired/illiterate timber worker into agreeing to store the poison in his backyard at the Nigerian river port of Koko for as little as 100 dollars a month. These toxic chemicals were exposed to the hot sun and to children playing nearby. They leaked into the Koko water system resulting in the death of nineteen villagers who ate contaminated rice from a nearby farm.\" This is just one example of how the traditional trade flow, from developed Western countries has severely, unfairly, and disproportionately impacted developing countries in the Global South.\n\nAnother danger to developing countries is the growing issue of shipbreaking, which is occurring mainly in Asia. Industrialized countries seeking to retire used vessels find it cheaper to send these ships to Asia for dismantling. China and Bangladesh are seen as the two hubs of shipbreaking in Asia. One of the main issues lies in the fact that these ships which are now too aged to continue, were constructed at a time with less environmental regulation. In an environmental fact sheet, researchers demonstrate the immense impact this new toxic trade sector has on workers and the environment. For one, the older ships contain health-damaging substances such as asbestos, lead oxide, zinc chromates, mercury, arsenic, and tributyltin. In addition, shipbreaking workers in China and in other developing countries traditionally lack proper equipment or protective gear when handling these toxic substances.\n\nThe global waste trade has had negative effects for many people, particularly in poorer, developing nations. These countries often do not have safe recycling processes or facilities, and people process the toxic waste with their bare hands. Hazardous wastes are often not properly disposed of or treated, leading to poisoning of the surrounding environment and resulting in illness and death in people and animals. Many people have experienced illnesses or death due to the unsafe way these hazardous wastes are handled.\n\nThe hazardous waste trade has disastrous effects upon the environment and natural ecosystems. Various studies explore how the concentrations of persistent organic pollutants have poisoned the areas surrounding the dump sites, killing numerous birds, fish, and other wildlife. There are heavy metal chemical concentrations in the air, water, soil, and sediment in and around these toxic dump areas, and the concentration levels of heavy metals in these areas are extremely high and toxic.\n\nThe hazardous waste trade has serious damaging effects upon the health of humans. People living in developing countries may be more vulnerable to the dangerous effects of the hazardous waste trade, and are particularly at risk from developing health problems. The methods of disposal of these toxic wastes in developing countries expose the general population (including future generations) to the highly toxic chemicals. These toxic wastes are often disposed of in open landfills, burned in incinerators, or in other dangerous processes. Workers wear little to no protective gear when processing these toxic chemicals, and are exposed to these toxins through direct contact, inhalation, contact with soil and dust, as well as oral intake of contaminated locally produced food and drinking water. Health problems resulting from these hazardous wastes affect humans by causing cancers, diabetes, alterations in neurochemical balances, hormone disruptions from endocrine disruptors, skin alterations, neurotoxicity, kidney damage, liver damage, bone disease, emphysema, ovotoxicity, reproductive damage, and many other fatal diseases. The improper disposal of these hazardous wastes creates fatal health problems, and is a serious public health risk.\n\nThere have been various international responses to the problems associated with the global waste trade and multiple attempts to regulate it for over thirty years. The hazardous waste trade has proven difficult to regulate as there is so much waste being traded, and laws are often difficult to enforce. Furthermore, there are often large loopholes in these international agreements that allow countries and corporations to dump hazardous wastes in dangerous ways. The most notable attempt to regulate the hazardous waste trade has been the Basel Convention.\n\nThe Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, usually known as the Basel Convention, is an international treaty that plays a crucial role in regulating the transnational movement of hazardous wastes. The Basel Convention was created in 1989 and attempts to regulate the hazardous waste trade, specifically to prevent the dumping of hazardous waste from more developed countries into less developed countries. The Basel Convention was developed following a series of high-profile cases in which large amounts of toxic waste were dumped into less developed countries, poisoning the people and environment. The Convention seeks to reduce the creation of hazardous wastes, and to control and reduce its trade across borders.\n\nThe Convention was opened for signatures on 22 March 1989, and officially entered into force on 5 May 1992. As of May 2014, 180 states and the European Union are parties to the Convention. Haiti and the United States have signed the Convention but not ratified it.\n\nThe Environmental Network for Optimizing Regulatory Compliance on Illegal Traffic (ENFORCE) is an agency staffed by relevant experts to promote compliance with the Basel Convention. It is an international body created to deal with transboundary issues of the international hazardous waste trade. Because the issue of the transnational hazardous waste trade crosses many borders and affects many nations, it has been important to have a multinational, multilateral organization presiding over these affairs. The members of ENFORCE include one representative from each of the five United Nations regions that are parties to the Convention as well as five representatives from the Basel Convention regional and coordinating centers, based on equitable geographical representation. Members of organizations such as the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL), NGOs working to prevent and stop illegal traffic such as the Basel Action Network (BAN), and many other organizations are also eligible to become members of ENFORCE.\n\nIn 1999 the Basel Convention passed the Protocol on Liability and Compensation that sought to improve regulatory measures and better protect people from hazardous waste. The Protocol on Liability and Compensation attempts to “assign appropriate liability procedures when the transboundary movements of hazardous wastes result in damages to human health and the environment”. The Protocol “imposes strict liability for damages in situations involving Parties to the Basel Convention, but only while they maintain control of the hazardous waste through their respective notifying, transporting, or disposing entities.” It seeks to regulate and ensure countries’ and corporations’ compliance with the Basel Convention laws. However, this Protocol remains unsigned by most countries, so its applicability is limited.\n\nIn an effort to protect themselves against unfair hazardous waste dumping, the African, Caribbean, and Pacific States (ACP) signed the Lome IV Convention, which is a supplement to the Basel Convention and prohibits the “export of hazardous wastes from the European Community to ACP States.” This Convention is one attempt by developing countries to protect themselves from Western countries exporting their waste to poorer nations through the hazardous waste trade. When the Lomé IV Convention expired in 2000, the ACP countries and the European countries entered into a new agreement known as the Cotonou Agreement, which “recognizes the existence of disproportionate risks in developing countries and desires to protect against inappropriate hazardous waste shipments to these countries.”\n\nIn 1991 multiple developing nations in Africa met to discuss their dissatisfaction with the Basel Convention in regulating the dumping of hazardous waste into their countries, and designed a ban on the import of hazardous wastes into their countries called the Bamako Convention. The Bamako Convention is different from the Basel Convention in that Bamako “essentially bans the import of all hazardous waste generated outside of the OAU [the Organization of African Unity] for disposal or recycling and deems any import from a non-Party to be an illegal act.” However, these countries could not effectively implement the stipulations of the Convention and could not prevent the dump of toxic wastes due to limited resources and a lack of powerful enforcement. Therefore, the application of the Bamako Convention was very limited.\n\nLaura Pratt, expert on the hazardous waste trade, claims that despite local and international attempts to regulate the hazardous waste trade, the “current international agreements, both the widespread, legally binding agreements and the ad hoc agendas among smaller groups of countries, have not been as successful at eliminating toxic waste colonialism as proponents would have hoped.” She explains that there are various loopholes in the current system that allow toxic waste to continue being dumped, and toxic colonialism to go unchecked. Some of the problems with these international agreements include continued illegal shipments and unclear definitions of terms.\n\nPratt explains that despite attempts to regulate illegal dumping, “[o]ftentimes hazardous waste is simply moved under false permits, bribes, improper labels, or even the pretext of 'recycling,' which is a growing trend.” Companies often export their hazardous wastes to poorer countries through illegal smuggling. Attempts to regulate this market have been hindered by a lack of ability to monitor the trade, as many countries do not have any authoritative legislative bodies in place to prevent or punish the illegal trafficking of hazardous wastes. Furthermore, Pratt explains that without coordinated international methods to enforce the regulations, it is extremely difficult for countries to \"control the illegal trade of hazardous waste, due to the disparity between enforcement resources and regulation uniformity.” Developing nations still bear the brunt of this illegal activity the most, and often do not have the resources or capability to protect themselves.\n\nAnother issue with the Basel Convention and other international agreements to regulate the waste trade is the difficulty of establishing clear, uniform definitions regarding wastes. These overly broad and ambiguous definitions cause problems with the international agreements, as different parties interpret the language of the agreements differently and thus act accordingly. For example, the “‘lack of distinction between ‘waste’ and ‘products’ in the convention and its vague criteria for ‘hazardous’ allowed the continued export of 'hazardous waste’ under the label of commodities or raw materials, despite the fact that these wastes still present environmental and health risks to developing countries.”\n\n"}
{"id": "681625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=681625", "title": "Group velocity dispersion", "text": "Group velocity dispersion\n\nIn optics, group velocity dispersion (GVD) is a characteristic of a dispersive medium, used most often to determine how the medium will affect the duration of an optical pulse traveling through it. Formally, GVD is defined as the derivative of the inverse of group velocity of light in a material with respect to angular frequency,\nwhere formula_2 and formula_3 are angular frequencies, and the group velocity formula_4 is defined as formula_5. The units of group velocity dispersion are [time]/[distance], often expressed in fs/mm.\n\nEquivalently, group velocity dispersion can be defined in terms of the medium-dependent wave vector formula_6 according to\nor in terms of the refractive index formula_8 according to\n\nGroup velocity dispersion is most commonly used to estimate the amount of chirp that will be imposed on a pulse of light after passing through a material of interest. The relevant expression is given by\n\nA simple illustration of how GVD can be used to determine pulse chirp can be seen by looking at the effect of a transform-limited pulse of duration formula_11 passing through a planar medium of thickness \"d\". Before passing through the medium, the phase offsets of all frequencies are aligned in time, and the pulse can be described as a function of time according to the expression\nor equivalently, as a function of frequency according to the expression\n(the parameters \"A\" and \"B\" are normalization constants).\nPassing through the medium results in a frequency-dependent phase accumulation formula_14 , such that the post-medium pulse can be described by \nIn general, the refractive index formula_8, and therefore the wave vector formula_17, can be an arbitrary function of formula_2, making it difficult to analytically perform the inverse Fourier transform back into the time domain. However, if the bandwidth of the pulse is narrow relative to the curvature of formula_19, then good approximations of the impact of the refractive index can be obtained by replacing formula_6 with its Taylor expansion centered about formula_3:\n\nTruncating this expression and inserting it into the post-medium frequency-domain expression results in a post-medium time-domain expression of \nOn balance, the pulse will have lengthened to an intensity standard deviation value of\nthus validating the initial expression. Note that for a transform-limited pulse σσ = 1/2, which makes it appropriate to identify 1/(2σ) as the bandwidth.\n\nAn alternate derivation of the relationship between pulse chirp and GVD, which more immediately illustrates the reason why GVD can be defined by the derivative of inverse group velocity, can be outlined as follows. Consider two transform-limited pulses of carrier frequencies formula_25 and formula_26, which are initially overlapping in time. After passing through the medium, these two pulses will exhibit a time delay between their respective pulse-envelope centers, given by \nThe expression can be approximated as a Taylor expansion, giving \nor,\nFrom here it is possible to imagine scaling this expression up two pulses to infinitely many. The frequency difference formula_30 must be replaced by the bandwidth, and the time delay formula_31 evolves into the induced chirp.\n\nA closely related yet independent quantity is the group delay dispersion (GDD), defined such that group velocity dispersion is the group delay dispersion per unit length. GDD is commonly used as a parameter in characterizing layered mirrors, where the group velocity dispersion is not particularly-well defined, yet the chirp induced after bouncing off the mirror can be well-characterized. The units of group delay dispersion are [time], often expressed in fs.\n\nThe group delay dispersion (GDD) of an optical element is the derivative of the group delay with respect to angular frequency, and also the second derivative of the optical phase. formula_32. It is a measure of the chromatic dispersion of the element. GDD is related to the total dispersion parameter formula_33 as\n\nformula_34\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899029", "title": "Hermit's Cave", "text": "Hermit's Cave\n\nThe Hermit's Cave, situated on Scenic Hill on the northeastern outskirts of Griffith, New South Wales, Australia, is in fact a complex of stone structures.\n\nMisleadingly called 'The Hermit's Cave', the site in reality comprises a complex of shelters, terraced gardens, exotic plants, water-cisterns, dry-stone walling and linking bridges, stairways and paths that stretch intermittently across more than a kilometre of the escarpment. Made single-handedly by a reclusive Italian migrant, Valerio Ricetti, these structures involved the moving of hundreds of tons of stone and earth, together with the ingenious incorporation of natural features in the landscape.\n\nThe site is recognised for being a rare example of an Australian hermit's domain. It was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 12 January 2007.\n\nOver the period from around 1929 to 1952 the hermit Valerio Ricetti fashioned an outcrop of rock shelters and rock overhangs on a ridge top site outside Griffith into his living quarters. The historical archaeological complex includes rock shelters (some modified into cave-like enclosures), dry-stone walling, stone stairways and paths, terraced gardens, water cisterns, remnant plantings, inscriptions and rock murals. Over more than two decades Ricetti developed, utilised and occupied structures along the one kilometre long site where he lived in isolated seclusion from 1929 to 1941. He continued to work on the site until 1952 when he returned to Italy where he died in the same year.\n\nValerio Ricetti was born in north Italy around 1897-98 in Sondalo, a small town in a valley in the Italian Alps, close to the border with Switzerland. In his home region he was apprenticed as a cement and stonemason and gained experience working on road and rail tunnel constructions. With the declining economic situation and impending war in Europe, his uncle encouraged him to migrate to Australia to seek better opportunities. Aged 16 or 17, Ricetti arrived at Port Pirie, South Australia, in October 1914. He worked at Port Pirie for a few months before heading off to Broken Hill where he stayed at the Ceccato boarding house (signed-on as being 18 years old) and obtained work in the mines with Valentino Ceccato and Francesco Bicego. During his time at Broken Hill Ricetti learned to speak English which he spoke well although he retained an accent. Later, Ceccato and Bicego left Broken Hill and came to Griffith. Ricetti continued to work in the mines until 1918 when he left Broken Hill, heartbroken from being spurned by a barmaid he intended to marry. This love affair devastated him and scarred him for the rest of his life.\n\nRicetti travelled to South Australia where he worked at various jobs for several years. His life experiences fed his disillusionment with humanity. With a year's timber-cutting wages in his pocket he departed for Adelaide where he visited a brothel. On leaving he found that he had left his wallet behind, but the bouncer would not allow him back in. He hurled a rock through a window, was chased and ended up in Adelaide Gaol. On release he left for Victoria. In Melbourne he intended to pawn his one remaining possession, a coat, but a passer-by who offered to pawn it for him never returned. He moved on to Burrinjuck, NSW, in 1928. In the decade since he left Broken Hill Ricetti had befriended many people but few of these friendships had lasted long. Leaving Burrinjuck, he set out on his own. For the next twelve months or so Ricetti followed the Murrumbidgee River downstream to the Lachlan River then upstream to Hillston, NSW.\n\nGriffith's newspaper, \"The Area News\", reported in 1977 that \"He finally found work on a riverboat of the period. He later explained that he had been a sailor on the Murray and that his \"ship\" had been the Mary Anne. The Mary Anne was one of the many boats that steamed the Murray, Murrumbidgee and Lachlan, and it would appear that Ricetti was to learn more about life during the period he spent on board her; perhaps something about love, unrequited. On the walls of his cave he etched a brief, pathetic epitaph to those days - two hearts and an anchor\".\n\nRicetti walked along the railway line to Griffith, with no idea of where he was heading. He was searching for a location where he could be on his own. That did not eventuate and he reached in Griffith in 1929.\n\nArriving on the outskirts of Griffith, a sudden rainstorm drove him to seek shelter on Scenic Hill. Next day he explored the area. About a quarter of the way down from the hilltop, he found a huge overhanging rock which was dry underneath. Close by he saw two reservoirs full of water and fruit and vegetable farms at the foot of the hill. To the west was the town rubbish dump which teemed with rabbits.\n\nTired of travelling, and with no money left, he later recalled saying to himself \"I have found the Garden of Eden\". Ricetti decided to construct a private utopia, by making the cave his permanent home. He scavenged the rubbish dump where he found a half-worn out shovel, a pick head and an axe head. He felled tree branches to make handles for them. He believed himself to be the only Italian in the area and kept entirely to himself. In reality, his old compatriots Ceccato and Bicego from Broken Hill had settled nearby and increasing numbers of Italian migrants were settling the area.\n\nRicetti cleared and decorated the caves, creating massive stone galleries and pathways, cliff-side gardens and floral painted rock walls. He worked at night and early in the morning, to remain unseen, eventually moving hundreds of tonnes of rock. Digging under the huge rock, the earth that he threw out rolled down the steep hillside. So he set about building a stone retaining wall. As it was gradually back-filled, he increased the retaining wall height and length. Finally it reached 9 metres long and 2.4 metres high. This gave him a level surface of 2.7 to 3.7 metres outside the cave. Portions on either side of the rock were closed off with stones and clay mortar leaving an opening just over 1 metre wide and 2 metres high to enter the cave.\n\nOutside he planted flowers on both sides of a path that led to the top of the retaining wall. Turning right, he then followed along the top of the wall for about 6 metres where he had made a pathway a little over half a metre wide that led to and from the cave.\n\nUnder the lookout, some 36 metres to the right, is a formation of three high rocks in a half circle. The centre one is fashioned by nature as a dome. In front of these rocks he built a stone retaining wall about 1.5 metres high and 4.5 metres long. This he filled with earth to level it, and then he planted more flowers. He called it his \"shrine\".\n\nFurther west he found an area that was partly surrounded by a sheer wall of rocks jutting out from the sloping hill. He made flower beds with pathways leading from one bed to another. On the sloping side he built small stone retaining walls. Near a corner of this complex were four large rocks, joined together front and back, with one either side forming a central open space about 3 metres in diameter. The top was open. On the garden side was a hole about a metre deep that he had to crawl through to get inside. Ricetti dug down in front of the hole to make it large enough to walk through, but just over half a metre down he found rock. At this level he dug inwards, carrying the soil up and forming more flowerbeds. At the centre of this \"room\" was a rock a little over half a metre high and too large to move. So with stone and clay mortar he shaped it into a table. At the entrance he made a stairway so he could walk down to the cave. For the top he laid thin poles across like a lattice, planting grapevines and wisteria to form a canopy.\n\nClose to these gardens he had a couple of places to hide when people came. These places were not developed in any prominent way. But over the other side of the hill, some 180 metres from the main cave, he built a stone walled circular cave amongst shrubs, around a large tree with a peephole which afforded him another place to hide when people appeared.\n\nIn 1935 Ricetti fell off some rocks, breaking his leg and badly bruising his ribs. A passing swagman found him and notified an ambulance that took Ricetti to hospital where the Government Medical Officer, Dr E.W. Burrell, attended to him. He became a celebrity when the enormity of his work on Scenic Hill was discovered. During Ricetti's hospitalisation Wade Shire Council came to his assistance, resolving 'to attend to and maintain the gardens during the hermit's indisposition. Councillor Lenehan stated that the recluse, by vast labour, had added considerably to the interest of Griffith outlook and it was up to the Council to do something for him.'\n\nAfter leaving hospital Ricetti returned to his reclusive existence. Anxious to pay Dr Burrell for his treatment, however, Ricetti slipped into town at night and worked in the doctor's garden. After a few visits the doctor caught him and explained to Ricetti that payment was made to him by the Government. A friendship grew between the two, which Ricetti valued greatly. Dr Burrell would visit Ricetti regularly at the cave and leave boxes with useful items such as clothes and shoes.\n\nIn 1937 a Mr Agostini wandered up the hill one night and came face to face with Ricetti. In conversation the names Ceccato and Bicego came up and Ricetti commented that he had worked at Broken Hill with people of those names. Agostini informed Ceccato of his contact with Ricetti and the acquaintance between Ceccato, Bicego and Ricetti was renewed.\n\nOn weekends they would pick up Ricetti, and take him to places where he met many people. They would try to coax him to come and live among them, but the hill remained his home. By now Ricetti had become more socialised and did not shy away from people.\n\nDuring World War II Ricetti was interned as an enemy alien. He had allegedly lined one of his caves with newspapers that included reports of Hitler with the swastika prominently displayed (Fenwick 1977: 9 ). He was put to work building roads and instructed his captors on how to improve their road-building methods. After four months he was assessed, declared a deranged person and moved to a mental institution at Orange, NSW. Six months later he was released and sent back to Griffith where the police met him and told him to get a job, find accommodation and not go back to the hill. Asked if he could name someone he gave Valentino Ceccato's name, who agreed to take him in.\n\nFrom 1942 to 1952 Ricetti worked and lived at the Ceccato's, first on Valentino Ceccato's farm until 1948 and then on the farm of Valentino'a son and daughter-in-law, Bruno and Nora Ceccato. From 1943-47 Ricetti worked in the orchards and vineyards alongside Valentino's son, Peter Ceccato, to whom he told stories of his life. But Ricetti was always a loner, working away from others on the farm and sleeping in the pruning shed. He was troubled by visions and obsessed with his cave: \"Disturbing him also was an illusion - a \"man and woman in the sky\". Very real to him, they towered above him, demanding that he do more and more work.\" By all accounts these visions stemmed from his disastrous love affair in Broken Hill. Ricetti spent as much time as possible at his cave where he stuffed his earnings from Ceccato into clefts in the rocks before Ceccato opened a bank account into which he paid Ricetti's wages direct (Fenwick 1977: 9 ).\n\nIn May 1952 Ricetti was in bad health and used the 1400 pounds he had amassed in wages to return to Italy and his brother, with whom he had lost contact. He clearly intended to return as he bought a return ticket and left his savings in the bank. But in November 1952 Bruno Ceccato received notice from the Municipality of Sondrio Vatellina that Ricetti had died\n\nThere is very little documentation on Valerio Ricetti's life in Australia and it is almost exclusively confined to records of his internment, dated 1942-45, held by National Archives Australia. Much of the information contained in these records is in the form of Ricetti's answers to a Military Police Questionnaire prior to his internment in 1942. But very little of this information provided by Ricetti can be substantiated by other documents.\n\nAdditionally, a photocopy of an employee record for BHP mines was obtained by both J Bicego and J Bugno.\n\nPhotocopies of most documents are reproduced in Bobby Caillard, \"Recovering the Lost Landscape of Valeri Ricetti: the archaeology of an individual\", BA (Hons) thesis, University of Sydney, 2005: Vol 2, 1-30.\n\nAdditional enquiries were undertaken by the Heritage Office with National Archives Australia (NAA); State Record Offices in South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales; Glenside Campus (formerly Parkside Lunatic Asylum), Adelaide and Griffith Base Hospital, NSW.\n\nThere is no record of Ricetti's date of birth. In 1942 it is recorded as 12 March 1897 and also as 12 March 1903. The latter date is likely incorrect as Ricetti would have been only 11 or 12 years old on arrival in Australia.\n\nRicetti's arrival date and port of entry into Australia cannot be verified. In 1942 he reports that he arrived in 1914 at Adelaide, date and ship's name unknown, that he paid his own fare and that he had no family or friends in Australia on arrival. But there is no record of his entry into a South Australian port as either a passenger, crew member or ship's deserter over a wide date range around 1914. Neither is he recorded as a passenger entering through a port in Western Australia or Victoria over an equally wide date range. Passenger shipping arrivals into Sydney for this period are not indexed, therefore were not searched (Heritage Office pers. comm. 2006: NAA Adelaide, Perth, Melbourne; State Records SA, NSW; Public Record Office Victoria).\n\nOn arrival in Australia, Ricetti claims to have spent \"about one year in a mental hospital in South Australia, after which he went to Alice Springs and on to the Northern Territory\". One month later Ricetti claims that he worked in the Broken Hill mines from 1914–17 and on the railways at Grafton, NSW, from 1917-21 after which he came to Griffith where he was employed by various Italian farmers for a few days at a time. The records from 1942 also note Ricetti's two court appearances in the period before his arrival in Griffith: at Adelaide on 7 October 1919 for a breach of the War Precautions Act (Aliens) (offence unspecified), fined five pounds or one month's hard labour and at Barham, NSW, on 14 October 1927 for stealing, fined ten pounds or two months hard labour. The same records note that Ricetti claimed to have left his passport at the Adelaide Police Station but that enquiries failed to confirm this and that examination of his finger prints revealed that Ricetti was also known in Adelaide as Frank Pullen and Frank Muler.\n\nOf these claims, only Ricetti's employment at the Broken Hill mines in 1917, his 1927 fine for stealing and a possible gaol sentence in Adelaide in 1919 can be substantiated in the documentary record.\n\nRecords of the former Parkside Lunatic Asylum, Adelaide (the only such institution in South Australia at that time) for the period 1914-20 reveal no entries under various possible spellings of Valerio Ricetti or his two aliases.\n\nRicetti's employment at Broken Hill mines can be verified for only 9 days, 17 to 26 May 1917, after which date he left. The record shows that he resided at Eyre St, South Broken Hill which was the Ceccato boarding house at 305 Eyre Street. He is recorded as Vito Ricetti and his age given as 22 years (instead of 20 years), his age probably falsified to gain employment.\n\nThe Adelaide Register of Prisoners has no record for Valerio Ricetti but has two entries for Franz Recitti in 1919 and 1920. The related documents have not been sighted by the Heritage Office but these entries may tally with one of Ricetti's aliases and relate to either his 1919 breach of War Precautions or the Adelaide brothel offence related by Peter Ceccato(Heritage Office pers. comm. 2006: State Records SA).\n\nThere is no record of Ricetti working on the railways at Grafton between 1917 and 1921 (Heritage Office pers. comm. 2006: NSW State Records).\n\nThe Police Charges and Summons Book, 1924-28 for Barham, NSW, (on the Murray River) records that Ricetti pleaded guilty on 14 October 1927 to stealing 40 dozen oranges for which he was fined 10 pounds in default of two months hard labour in Deniliquin Gaol (Charles Sturt University, NSW, Regional Archives).\n\nDuring World War II, \"enemy aliens\" resident in Australia were required to register under National Security (Aliens Control) Regulations, to report to the police station each week and to carry an identify card at all time to avoid arrest (Dalton & Polkinghorne 1990: 845). Ricetti's internment record and associated documents held by the NAA confirm his internment as an enemy alien between May 1942 and December 1943. The documents also reveal the difference in assessment of Ricetti the individual by the local and state police services.\n\nRicetti was arrested by Griffith Police on 4 March 1942 for failing to register as an alien and to report to police . Ricetti's statement that he was unaware of the requirement to register was accepted by the local police. He was charged with \"being deemed insane and found wandering at large\" but was discharged five days later following examination by Dr Burrell (who had attended him in Griffith Hospital in 1935) who pronounced him \"completely harmless and therefor (sic) not a subject for medical attention in an institution\".\n\nIn his reports to the Commissioner of Police, Sydney, the Officer-in-Charge of Griffith Police noted that Ricetti spoke German, French and Italian quite fluently. He commented on Ricetti's residence on Scenic Hill, his \"considerable skill in stonework\", and his work \"to beautify the hill\" which Ricetti had asserted to him to be \"his mission in life\" . The officer noted that Ricetti had \"long been regarded as an eccentric\" and the \"difficulty is experienced in getting anything like a coherent story from him\" . He concluded that Ricetti was a \"harmless mental deficient who lives the life of a hermit\" and that it was not proposed to begin proceedings against him.\n\nMilitary Police Intelligence, Sydney, however, thought otherwise. They required Ricetti's completion of a four page questionnaire and a search of his premises for \"literature of subversive or disloyal nature\" or \"prohibited possessions\". The search carried out on 10 April 1942 by Griffith Police found nothing.\n\nThe questionnaire appears to have been completed in two stages with handwritten entries by Griffith Police and later, typed entries (that include Ricetti's court appearances) probably entered by Military Police Intelligence in Sydney. These typed entries give a more critical assessment of Ricetti. They comment that Ricetti resides \"in the highest and most secluded locality in the District ... about a mile from the various petrol depots, electricity substations and water channels in the Irrigation Area\" and that he \"is known to wander about at night\". The entry continues that Ricetti \"is regarded with a good deal of suspicion\"—a statement that does not square with Griffith Police's assessment of Ricetti as \"harmless\" and \"eccentric\"—and concludes \"We are of the opinion that this alien should be interned.\".\n\nRicetti was arrested on 3 May 1942 on Scenic Hall and removed to the Liverpool internment camp (south-west of Sydney) from where he was transferred to Cowra in July 1942. Records show he was released from Camp 12, Cowra on 16 December 1942 but also transferred from Cowra to Loveday internment camp, SA, on 21 April 1943. One account suggests Ricetti was moved during his internment to a mental institution in Orange, NSW, for treatment. However there is no record for that period of Ricetti being admitted to Bloomfield Hospital, Orange (at that time the only mental institution in Orange) .\n\nRicetti was released from Loveday on 5 December 1943 and taken to Sydney where he gave his new place of abode as Farm 219 Yoogali, Griffith (Valentino and Elizabeth Ceccato's farm). A year later (30 November 1944) Ricetti notified his change of abode from Farm 219 Yoogali to Scenic Hill, Griffith. This would indicate the earliest official acceptance of his occupation of this Crown Reserve as his place of abode, even though he is remembered as living on the Ceccato farm at that time.\n\nRicetti's departure from Sydney cannot be confirmed as NSW passenger shipping lists for 1952 are not indexed and therefore were not searched.\n\nThe absence of documentary verification for much of Ricetti's story can be at least partly explained by the loss or destruction of many records over time.\n\nRicetti's experience aligns with European traditions of hermitism that are not essentially religious in origin whereby an individual makes a conscious (rather than an enforced) choice to remove himself or herself from society, often after a long period of solitary wandering (Ricetti trekked on foot for a decade from Adelaide through north Victoria and southern NSW to Griffith). Ricetti's choice of landscape conforms to many European hermit dwellings. Caves are frequently chosen, particularly those located on steep hillsides or in mountains. In this respect Ricetti would have drawn on his Italian upbringing in a mountain valley of north Italy in making his choice of dwelling on the 200 metre high escarpment of the southern edge of the McPherson Range—a prominent ridge top location in the predominantly flat Riverina Plain. Spiritual iconography is common even among hermits living outside a recognised religious tradition.\n\nNorth Italian cultural influences can be seen in Ricetti's use of:\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex is a collection of rock shelters and rock overhangs (several of which have been modified by Ricetti to create cave-like enclosures) with elaborate stoneworks and earthworks created by Ricetti, all of which are located along a long, narrow ridge top site outside Griffith. Ricetti's work is over more than one kilometre along the south-eastern face of Scenic Hill which is a 200 metre high escarpment on the southern-most part of the McPherson Range. Scenic Hill is now adjacent to the western edge of the Collina residential suburb. The southern and northern edges of the site are defined by Ricetti's hide-outs constructed in rocky outcrops. The western perimeter is currently defined by the road reserve boundary of Scenic Drive although there are possibly remnants of other constructions west and north-west of this road. The area of the nominated site comprises 16.16 ha with a length of 1150 m and varying widths of approximately 120 to 190m.\n\nThe archaeological remains of the site are located in discrete areas along the length of the site across a distance of over one kilometre. From south-east to north-west these remains are grouped as follows:\n\n\n\nRock shelter containing:\nThe small size of the shelter and absence of rock inscriptions and rock murals suggests this was a short-term dwelling used by Ricetti before he constructed and moved into the second, more substantial dwelling.\n\nThis dwelling is associated with two gardens, three cisterns, a rock shelter popularly known as \"La Scala\" (Opera House) and its inscriptions. It is recorded in historical photographs and is remembered to have been built and occupied before the third dwelling.\n\n\"A) Rock Shelter containing:\"\n\n\"B) Gardens\"\nThe largest and most complex zone of the site being 60 metres long and 35 metres wide. Located along the base of a cliff face below the ridge top with a drop in level of 10 metres.\n\n\"C) Cisterns\"\n\n\"D) Natural Amphitheatre-Shaped Rock Shelter featuring:\"\ni) Rock shelter popularly known as 'La Scala' (or the 'Opera House')\nii) Rock inscriptions at 'La Scala':\n\nRock inscriptions occur in three areas.\n\na) The lower rock gallery is at the base of the cliff and contains a mixture of Christian and other symbols:\nb) Partly up the rock face, near the stone stair to the \"La Scala\" rock shelf, is the date 1918 and initials RV ( Valerio Ricetti's, back to front). This date predates Ricetti's known arrival in the area.\n\nc) Inscription on a rock floor of later date is (also predates Ricetti's arrival).\n\n\"E) Two Stone Stairs\"\n\n\nThis dwelling is the best-known and best-maintained of Ricetti's works. It is associated with other structures that are popularly known as \"Kitchen\", \"Gun Post\", \"Art Gallery\", \"Chapel\", stone stair and \"The Cliffs Cave\" inscription.\n\n\"A) Rock Shelter containing:\"\n\n\"B) 'Gun Post\"'\n\nA stone earthwork resembling a small fortification. Historical photographs show a gang plank bridge connecting it to the third dwelling. No evidence of a real defensive purpose has been found, but it appears to have been used by Ricetti to monitor his surroundings.\n\n\"C) 'Art Gallery\"'\n\nA separate chamber connected to the third dwelling. This was remembered to contain a cinema poster of King Kong.\n\n\"D) 'Chapel\"'\n\n\n\"E) Stone Stair\"\n\n90-step remnant of stone stair constructed by Ricetti.\n\n\"F) \"The Cliffs Cave\" Inscription\"\n\nA historic inscription (predating Ricetti's occupation) reads \"H.M. Alf. Irv. Driver The Cliffs Born Nov. 21/-70\". Alf Driver was the pioneer selector of the local property, The Cliffs. The inscription is chiselled in elegant, cursive script into the floor of the rock shelter which is located near a hazardous rock ledge that is reached by a narrow passage between two boulders. From the rock shelter there is a magnificent 180 degree view of the Riverina Plain and the slopes of the hill below. The site clearly has a larger and previous history of use by settlers and travellers and probably an even older Aboriginal association.\n\nA narrow, rectangular shelter with two built walls, it is well concealed at the foot of a sheer rock face. Located about 100 metres north-east of the third dwelling, it is connected by pathways to the third dwelling, ridge top and North Rock Shelter (2).\n\nDefining the northern limits of the Hermit's Cave Complex, it is located about 100 metres north-east of North Rock Shelter (1):\n\nThis site is known through archival photographs and supported by oral history although no physical evidence of the structure has been found. Its stone structures were probably dismantled for use in gardens. Its location has been given as 'just to the west of the track [Scenic Drive] about 100-200 yards in on the flat, north-north-west of the cave's old entrance, north of the look-out'.\n\nArchival photographs indicate a worked stone structure with large, smooth-finished rectangular blocks framing a wooden doorway with jambs and curved lintel of \"wilga timber\". The structure was a small room built around a hollow wilga tree at the base of which Ricetti had built a fireplace so that the tree could serve as a chimney. The door and a peephole allowed Ricetti to view the approaches from all sides. Ricetti used the structure as both a kitchen and a hide-out but abandoned it because of visitors or vandals.\n\nThe gardens were reported to be in a fair condition as at 19 June 2006, although erosion of clay mortar supporting the stone masonry work on the retaining walls is a concern. Erosion is equally a concern on the retaining walls to the \"Chapel\". Graffiti is a concern, with graffiti damage to some of Ricetti's original rock art.\n\nSome of the staircases are still in a pristine condition. Taking into account the nature of the rudimentary construction, the site is remarkably intact.\n\nThe site has considerable archaeological potential. There are possibly remnants of constructions to the west and north-west of Scenic Drive (outside the nominated curtilage) but their locations are unknown.\n\nThe site retains most of its original design and material. Much of the original stonewalling is intact. It has suffered some damage due to graffiti, vandalism and erosion of original material.\n\nThe landscape has been modified on several occasions between the 1970s and 1990s. The most prominent modifications ( by Council) are the Sir Dudley de Chair look-out area above the \"Chapel\" and a steel hand-rail along the stairs from the lookout to the \"Chapel\" together with work undertaken by the Apex Club in the 1970s, being the construction of a 60-step stone stair from the lookout to the \"Chapel\". Apex have also attempted to reconstruct part of the \"Main Cave\". Apex, however, used cement mortar, which deviated from Ricetti's utilisation of clay-mortar and dry-stone techniques.\n\nThe cultural landscape and historical archaeological complex known as the Hermit's Cave Complex has state significance as a rare example in New South Wales of a documented, extensive and relatively intact complex of recluse dwellings that is an outstanding twentieth century archaeological site containing rare examples of rock art, historic graffiti, numerous stone structures, earthworks and remnant cultivation.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex has multicultural heritage values that constitute material evidence of the response of one individual, the Italian migrant Valerio Ricetti, to the impact of migration in the period after World War 1. The site documents Ricetti's resourcefulness and skill and demonstrates a rare interpretation and integration of natural landscape and materials to create not just a shelter but, over time, an elaborate complex comprising hide-outs, a lookout and modified cave-like enclosures supplemented by retaining stone walls, linking bridges, stone stairways, paths and earthworks with terraced gardens, remnant plantings and water cisterns.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex illustrates a European tradition of hermitism that is rarely found in New South Wales.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex has outstanding educational, interpretative and research potential as a resource for the study of historical archaeology and ethnic history.\n\nHermit's Cave Complex was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 12 January 2007 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex has state significance for its capacity to demonstrate a historical pattern of migration experiences in material form. Ricetti's story of a young, non English-speaking migrant with no family or friendship networks in Australia is significant for the individuality of his response (in an Australian context) to the pressures and opportunities of migration.\n\nRicetti's retreat from human interraction was marked initially by a decade of aimless solitary trekking around inland southern New South Wales and adjacent parts of Victoria and South Australia that ended with his decision to set down roots, build a retreat and live off the land in seclusion when he sighted the rocky ridge top of Scenic Hill on the outskirts of Griffith.\n\nOver a 23-year period Ricetti did more than merely construct a habitable shelter on the ridge top. He invested a vast amount of time and physical labour in considerably modifying the landscape to suit his purposes and to create an aesthetically pleasing environment. He backfilled a total area of 505 square metres to create terraces for cultivation on the steep slopes of the escarpment. The soil in the cultivated areas has been identified as fine and pebble-free in an otherwise stony environment which indicates a sieving process (Ricetti could access and adapt materials located on the town dump nearby). The terraces were planted with a variety of edible and ornamental plants which demonstrates aesthetic as well as practical values. Ricetti collected, shifted, cut and placed thousands of cubic metres of stone to create the series of retaining walls around the ten identified terrraces and the extensive stairways that link the elements of the site.\n\nThe plantings have been identified as including grape vines, fig, olive and stone-fruit trees. These take several years to fruit which would indicate Ricetti viewed this cultivation as long term investment. Other plantings such as tomato, passion-fruit vines, sweet peas and lettuce would have required intensive care and nurturing in Griffith's semi-arid climate, evidenced by Ricetti's construction of water cisterns.\n\nThis level of activity and attention demonstrates that Ricetti valued his dwelling with a high degree of both physical and emotional investment as a permanent home and a long-term project.\n\nOral history indicates he was driven by \"visions\" to work on his project. Ricetti's response can perhaps be understood in the context of European traditions of hermitism, especially in the Alpine regions of northern Italy where his choice of landscape echoes that of many European hermit dwellings. North Italian cultural influences can be seen in Ricetti's use of :\n\nRicetti's is an important story in the narratives of \"difference\" or \"the other\", not only for his response to society but also for society's response to him. At the local level the community understands his \"difference\" and values his work on Scenic Hill: his hospitalisation engenders community support during his absence and, in World War II, the local police consider him no threat and his work to be valuable. At the impersonal level of state jurisdiction, however, his \"difference\" is viewed unfavourably. He is demonised for his nationality and nonconformity and interned as an enemy alien, suspicions compounded by his 14 years of social alienation. These distinctions may reflect wider patterns in wartime internment processes.\n\nThe place has a strong or special association with a person, or group of persons, of importance of cultural or natural history of New South Wales's history.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex is of local significance for its association with the extensively documented life of Valerio Ricetti, the subject of local folklore as the \"hermit\" of Scenic Hill.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex is significant at state level as an example of multicultural heritage and as an aesthetically distinctive cultural landscape. It demonstrates through its landmark qualities an individual's adaptation of the landscape and natural materials to provide shelter, food and an aesthetically pleasing environment as a response to social dislocation and isolation. As such it is in the tradition of European ascetic/hermit retreat dwellings created to provide for seclusion from society.\n\nThe landmark qualities of the Hermit's Cave Complex align with European traditions of hermitism that are not essentially religious in origin. Ricetti's choice of landscape conforms to many European hermit dwellings. Caves are frequently chosen, particularly those located on steep hillsides or on mountains. In this respect Ricetti would have drawn on his Italian upbringing in a mountain valley of north Italy in making his choice of dwelling the 200 metre high escarpment of the southern edge of the McPherson Range—a prominent ridge top location in the predominantly flat Riverina Plain.\n\nSpiritual iconography is common even among hermits living outside a recognised religious tradition. Ricetti's work reflects Italian hermit traditions of painting and inscribing important images and texts on cave walls.\n\nNorth Italian cultural influences can be seen in Ricetti's creative and technical achievements, specifically in his:\n\nThe site is a popular place for meditative walks, in a setting reminiscent of ancient European archaeological monuments. The stonework and gardens recall the stone structures and intensively modified rural landscapes of northern Italy.\n\nThe place has strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex has social significance at the local level for the Griffith community, and in particular the Italian community of Griffith and the surrounding Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area, as an important element of local folklore.\n\nThe place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex is of state significance as an outstanding example of a twentieth century historical archaeological site that is suitable for further research.\nIt has outstanding educational, interpretative and research potential as a resource for the study of historical archaeology, multicultural heritage and migration history:\n\nThe place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nOutstanding level of rarity. The Hermit's Cave Complex has state significance as a rare, documented example of a known hermit dwelling and a document of recluse living, especially in terms of the extent and complex nature of the site.\nSome of the known examples of hermit and/or cave dwellings evidence some construction techniques similar to Ricetti's, such as dry stone walling, some terracing and water provision. But these examples are either on a considerably smaller scale, are evidence of community activity or are constructions by squatters who were not hermits.\nThe known examples of cave dwellings appear to be linked to squatting, mainly in the 1930s depression. None of these examples show similar evidence of the extent and complexity of Ricetti's construction works at the Hermit's Cave Complex.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a class of cultural or natural places/environments in New South Wales.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex has state significance for being representative in its physical forms of some aspects of the small number of known examples of recluse living in New South Wales, most of which are in the Sydney region.\nEnquiries have revealed a number of previously occupied caves in New South Wales that reflect either depression era occupation, squatting by individuals who are not necessarily hermits, or more elaborate constructions by communities of fringe dwellers.\nMany cave shelters throughout the national parks that flank Sydney --- the Royal to the south, the Blue Mountains to the west and Kuring-gai Chase to the north --- were depression-era dwellings of the 1930s, such as the former fishermen's caves at Cape Solander (Botany Bay), the caves in the Domain in the city, and Poet's Cave in Lane Cove National Park, Sydney, that was inhabited by a hermit who was also believed to be responsible for a biblical inscription on a rock in the park.\nIn north-western New South Wales caves were occupied at Lightening Ridge and in the Warrumbungle Ranges, the latter reputedly used by cattle duffers (dates unknown).\nOther \"hermit-type\" dwellings like the Crater Cove huts on Sydney Harbour and huts along the Hawkesbury River grew in popularity in the 1930s depression but originated earlier and continued their existence later as communities of fringe dwellers. The Crater Cove huts were first constructed by squatters during the 1920s in the Middle Harbour bushland and remained inhabited until 1988. They were built on the low cliffs and wide rock platforms facing the harbour with water tanks carved into the rock, stone built chimneys, paths and edging. A group of Hawkesbury River huts (with boat access only) were occupied by one family group and included wells, terracing of the ridges, gardens, extensive dry stone walling and linking pathways.\nA large and impressive two-storey, Swiss chalet style dwelling was constructed by a squatter over a 40-year period from the 1920s at Hungry Beach in Kuring-gai Chase National Park. The building had 2 metre high circular stone walls, its own water supply, polished concrete floors and all fixed furniture (sofas, kitchen benches, cupbords, wardrobes etc) was built of polished ferrocement. During World War II it was occupied by the United States military. The builder was not a hermit and he sourced (and paid for) building materials that he brought in by barge from Sydney. The building was reputedly demolished in 1969 while the occupant (then in his eighties) was hospitalised.\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex is representative of some of these construction techniques as a class or type of item and is the finest known example of its type.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "422194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=422194", "title": "Hoi polloi", "text": "Hoi polloi\n\nHoi polloi (, \"hoi polloi\", \"the many\") is an expression from Greek that means \"the many\" or, in the strictest sense, \"the people\". In English, it has been given a negative connotation to signify deprecation of the working class, commoners, the masses or common people in a derogatory or (more often today) ironic sense. Synonyms for hoi polloi, which also express the same or similar distaste for the common people felt by those who believe themselves to be superior, include \"the great unwashed\", \"the plebeians\" or \"plebs\", \"the rabble\", \"the masses\",\"the dregs of society\", \"riffraff\", \"the herd\", \"the canaille\", \"the proles\" (proletariat), \"sheeple\", and \"peons\".\n\nThe phrase probably became known to English scholars through Pericles' Funeral Oration, as mentioned in Thucydides' \"History of the Peloponnesian War\". Pericles uses it in a positive way when praising the Athenian democracy, contrasting it with \"hoi oligoi\", \"the few\" (Greek: , see also \"oligarchy\").\n\nIts current English usage originated in the early 19th century, a time when it was generally accepted that one must be familiar with Greek and Latin in order to be considered well educated. The phrase was originally written in Greek letters. Knowledge of these languages served to set apart the speaker from \"hoi polloi\" in question, who were not similarly educated.\n\nPronunciation depends on the speaker:\n\nSome linguistic prescriptivists argue that, given that \"hoi\" is a definite article, the phrase \"the hoi polloi\" is redundant, akin to saying \"the the masses\". Others argue that this is inconsistent with other English loanwords. The word \"alcohol\", for instance, derives from the Arabic \"al-kuhl\", \"al\" being an article, yet \"the alcohol\" is universally accepted as good grammar.\n\nThere have been numerous uses of the term in English literature. James Fenimore Cooper, author of \"The Last of the Mohicans\", is often credited with making the first recorded usage of the term in English. The first recorded use by Cooper occurs in his 1837 work \"Gleanings in Europe\" where he writes \"After which the oi polloi are enrolled as they can find interest.\"\n\nLord Byron had, in fact, previously used the term in his letters and journal. In one journal entry, dated 24 November 1813, Byron writes \"I have not answered W. Scott's last letter,—but I will. I regret to hear from others, that he has lately been unfortunate in pecuniary involvements. He is undoubtedly the Monarch of Parnassus, and the most English of bards. I should place Rogers next in the living list (I value him more as the last of the best school) —Moore and Campbell both third—Southey and Wordsworth and Coleridge—the rest, οι πολλοί [hoi polloi in Greek]—thus:— (\"see image reproduced on this page\").\n\nByron also wrote an 1821 entry in his journal \"... one or two others, with myself, put on masks, and went on the stage with the 'oi polloi.\"\n\nWhile Charles Darwin was at the University of Cambridge from 1828 to 1831, undergraduates used the term \"hoi polloi\" or \"Poll\" for those reading for an \"ordinary\" degree, the \"pass degree\". At that time only capable mathematicians would take the Tripos or honours degree. In his autobiography written in the 1870s, Darwin recalled that \"By answering well the examination questions in Paley, by doing Euclid well, and by not failing miserably in Classics, I gained a good place among the οἱ πολλοί, or crowd of men who do not go in for honours.\"\n\nW. S. Gilbert used the term in 1882 when he wrote the libretto of the comic opera Iolanthe. In Act I, the following exchange occurs between a group of disgruntled fairies who are arranging to elevate a lowly shepherd to the peerage, and members of the House of Lords who will not hear of such a thing:\n\nGilbert's parallel use of \"canaille\", \"plebs\" (\"plebeians\"), and \"hoi polloi\" makes it clear that the term is derogatory of the lower classes. In many versions of the vocal score, it is written as \"οἱ πολλοί\", likely confusing generations of amateur choristers who had not had the advantages of a British Public School education.\n\nJohn Dryden used the phrase in his Essay of Dramatick Poesie, published in 1668. Dryden spells the phrase with Greek letters, but the rest of the sentence is in English (and he does precede it with \"the\").\n\nThe term has appeared in several films and radio programs. For example, one of the earliest short films from the Three Stooges, \"Hoi Polloi\" (1935), opens in an exclusive restaurant where two wealthy gentlemen are arguing whether heredity or environment is more important in shaping character. They make a bet and pick on nearby trashmen (the Stooges) to prove their theory. At the conclusion of three months in training, the Stooges attend a dinner party, where they thoroughly embarrass the professors.\n\nThe University of Dayton's Don Morlan says, \"The theme in these shorts of the Stooges against the rich is bringing the rich down to their level and shaking their heads.\" A typical Stooges joke from the film is when someone addresses them as \"gentlemen\", and they look over their shoulders to see who is being addressed. The Three Stooges turn the tables on their hosts by calling them \"hoi polloi\" at the end.\n\nAt the English public school (i.e., private school) Haileybury and Imperial Service College, in the 1950s and '60s, grammar schoolboys from nearby Hertford were referred to as \"oips\", from \"hoi polloi\", to distinguish them from comprehensive and secondary modern schoolboys, the lowest of the low, who were called \"oiks\".\n\nCarole King's TV special \"Really Rosie\" (based on Maurice Sendak's works) contains a song called \"My Simple Humble Neighborhood\", in which Rosie remembers those whom she's met over the years. In the process, she mentions the hoi polloi as well as the grand elite.\n\nThe term continues to be used in contemporary writing. In his 1983 introduction to Robert Anton Wilson's \"Prometheus Rising\", Israel Regardie writes, \"Once I was even so presumptuous as to warn (Wilson) in a letter that his humor was much too good to waste on hoi polloi who generally speaking would not understand it and might even resent it.\"\n\nThe term \"hoi polloi\" was used in a dramatic scene in the film \"Dead Poets Society\" (1989). In this scene, Professor Keating speaks negatively about the use of the article \"the\" in front of the phrase:\n\nKeating's tone makes clear that he considers this statement to be an insult. He used the phrase \"the hoi polloi\", to demonstrate the mistake he warned against.\n\nThe term was also used in the comedy film \"Caddyshack\" (1980). In a rare moment of cleverness, Spaulding Smails greets Danny Noonan as he arrives for the christening of The Flying Wasp, the boat belonging to Judge Elihu Smails (Spaulding's grandfather), with \"Ahoy, polloi! Where did you come from, a scotch ad?\" This is particularly ironic, because Danny has just finished mowing the Judge's lawn, and arrives overdressed, wearing a sailboat captain's outfit (as the girl seated next to him points out, Danny \"looks like Dick Cavett\").\n\nTodd Rundgren's band Utopia recorded a song titled \"Hoi Polloi\" on their album \"Deface the Music\" (1980), in which all of the songs are written and performed in the style of the Beatles.\n\nThe Lovin' Spoonful's song \"Jug Band Music\" includes the line: \"He tried to mooch a towel from the hoi polloi.\"\n\nIn the song \"Risingson\" on Massive Attack's \"Mezzanine\" album, the singer apparently appeals to his company to leave the club they're in, deriding the common persons' infatuation with them, and implying that he's about to slide into antisocial behaviour:\n\nIn an episode of \"This American Life\", radio host Ira Glass uses the term hoi polloi while relaying a story about a woman who believes the letter 'q' should occur later in the alphabet. He goes on to say that \"Q does not belong in the middle of the alphabet where it is, with the hoi polloi of the alphabet, with your 'm' 'n' and 'p'. Letters that will just join any word for the asking.\"\n\nThe term was used in a first-series episode (The New Vicar, aired 5 November 1990) of the British sitcom \"Keeping Up Appearances\". The main character, Hyacinth Bucket, gets into a telephone argument with a bakery employee. When the employee abruptly hangs up in frustration, Hyacinth disparagingly refers to him as \"hoi polloi\". This is in keeping with her character; she looks down upon those she considers to be of lesser social standing, including working-class people.\n\nHoi Polloi was used in Larry Marder's \"Tales of the Beanworld\" to name the unusual group of creatures that lived beneath the Beanworld.\n\nIn the first scene of The PlayStation ad \"Double Life,\" a British man says, \"In the day, I do my job, I ride the bus, Roll up my sleeves with the Hoi polloi\".\n\nSue Townsend's Adrian Mole writes a poem called \"The Hoi Polloi Reception\" and later works as a cook \"offal chef\" in a Soho restaurant called Hoi Polloi.\n\nThe August 14, 2001 episode of CNN's \"Larry King Live\" program included a discussion about whether the sport of polo was an appropriate part of the image of the British Royal Family. Joining King on the program were \"best-selling biographer and veteran royal watcher Robert Lacey\" and Kitty Kelley, author of the book \"The Royals\". Their discussions focused on Prince Charles and his son Prince William:\n\nThe term also appears in the 2003 Broadway musical \"Wicked\", where it is used by the characters Elphaba and Glinda to refer to the many inhabitants of the Emerald City: \"... I wanna be in this hoi polloi ...\"\n\nJack Cafferty, a CNN anchorman, was caught misusing the term. On 9 December 2004 he retracted his statement, saying \"And hoi-polloi refers to common people, not those rich morons that are evicting those two red-tail hawks (ph) from that fifth Avenue co-op. I misused the word hoi-polloi. And for that I humbly apologize.\"\n\nNew media and new inventions have also been described as being by or for the hoi polloi. Bob Garfield, co-host of NPR's \"On the Media\" program, 8 November 2005, used the phrase in reference to changing practices in the media, especially Wikipedia, \"The people in the encyclopedia business, I understand, tend to sniff at the wiki process as being the product of the mere hoi polloi.\"\n\nIn \"Sunk Costs\" (season 3 episode 3) of \"Better Call Saul\", Jimmy has been arrested and the DDA (Oakley) teases him \"getting fingerprinted with the hoi polloi\". \n\nThe phrase \"hoi polloi\" has been used to promote products and businesses. As described by the \"Pittsburgh Dish\", the name \"Hoi Polloi\" may be chosen to indicate that the brand or service will appeal to the \"common people\".\n\nThe phrase has also been used in commercial works as the name a race of people.\n\n"}
{"id": "10956960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10956960", "title": "Information and media literacy", "text": "Information and media literacy\n\nInformation and media literacy (IML) enables people to interpret and make informed judgments as users of information and media, as well as to become skillful creators and producers of information and media messages in their own right.\n\nPrior to the 1990s, the primary focus of information literacy was research skills. Media literacy, a study that emerged around the 1970s, traditionally focuses on the analysis and the delivery of information through various forms of media. Nowadays, the study of information literacy has been extended to include the study of media literacy in many countries like the UK, Australia and New Zealand. The term \"information and media literacy\" is used by UNESCO to differentiate the combined study from the existing study of information literacy. It is also referred to as information and communication technologies (ICT) in the United States. Educators such as Gregory Ulmer have also defined the field as electracy.\n\nIML is a combination of information literacy and media literacy. The purpose of being information and media literate is to engage in a digital society; one needs to be able to understand, inquire, create, communicate and think critically. It is important to effectively access, organize, analyze, evaluate, and create messages in a variety of forms. The transformative nature of IML includes creative works and creating new knowledge; to publish and collaborate responsibly requires ethical, cultural and social understanding.\n\nThe IML learning capacities prepare students to be 21st century literate. According to Jeff Wilhelm (2000), \"technology has everything to do with literacy. And being able to use the latest electronic technologies has everything to do with being literate.\" He supports his argument with J. David Bolter's statement that \"if our students are not reading and composing with various electronic technologies, then they are illiterate. They are not just unprepared for the future; they are illiterate right now, in our current time and context\".\n\nWilhelm's statement is supported by the 2005 Wired World Phase II (YCWW II) survey conducted by the Media Awareness Network of Canada on 5000 Grade 4 – 11 students. The key findings of the survey were:\n\nMarc Prensky (2001) uses the term \"digital native\" to describe people who have been brought up in a digital world. The Internet has been a pervasive element of young people's home lives. 94% of kids reported that they had Internet access at home, and a significant majority (61%) had a high-speed connection.\n\nBy the time kids reach Grade 11, half of them (51 percent) have their own Internet-connected computer, separate and apart from the family computer. The survey also showed that young Canadians are now among the most wired in the world. Contrary to the earlier stereotype of the isolated and awkward computer nerd, today's wired kid is a social kid.\n\nIn general, many students are better networked through the use of technology than most teachers and parents, who may not understand the abilities of technology. Students are no longer limited to desktop computera. They may use mobile technologies to graph mathematical problems, research a question for social studies, text message an expert for information, or send homework to a drop box. Students are accessing information by using MSN, personal Web pages, Weblogs and social networking sites.\n\nMany teachers continue the tradition of teaching of the past 50 years. Traditionally teachers have been the experts sharing their knowledge with children. Technology, and the learning tools it provides access to, forces us to change to being facilitators of learning. We have to change the stereotype of teacher as the expert who delivers information, and students as consumers of information, in order to meet the needs of digital students. Teachers not only need to learn to speak digital, but also to embrace the language of digital natives.\n\nLanguage is generally defined as a system used to communicate in which symbols convey information. Digital natives can communicate fluently with digital devices and convey information in a way that was impossible without digital devices. People born prior to 1988 are sometimes referred to as \"digital immigrants.\" They experience difficulty programming simple devices like a VCR. Digital immigrants do not start pushing buttons to make things work.\n\nLearning a language is best done early in a child's development.\n\nIn acquiring a second language, Hyltenstam (1992) found that around the age of 6 and 7 seemed to be a cut-off point for bilinguals to achieve native-like proficiency. After that age, second language learners could get near-native-like-ness but their language would, while consisting of very few actual errors, have enough errors that would set them apart from the first language group.\n\nKindergarten and grades 1 and 2 are critical to student success as digital natives because not all students have a \"digital\"-rich childhood. Students learning technological skills before Grade 3 can become equivalently bilingual. \"Language-minority students who cannot read and write proficiently in English cannot participate fully in American schools, workplaces, or society. They face limited job opportunities and earning power.\" Speaking \"digital\" is as important as being literate in order to participate fully in North American society and opportunities.\n\nMany students are considered illiterate in media and information for various reasons. They may not see the value of media and information literacy in the 21st-century classroom. Others are not aware of the emergence of the new form of information. Educators need to introduce IML to these students to help them become media and information literate. Very little changes will be made if the educators are not supporting information and media literacy in their own classrooms.\n\nPerformance standards, the foundation to support them, and tools to implement them are readily available. Success will come when there is full implementation and equitable access are established. Shared vision and goals that focus on strategic actions with measurable results are also necessary.\n\nWhen the staff and community, working together, identify and clarify their values, beliefs, assumptions, and perceptions about what they want children to know and be able to do, an important next step will be to discover which of these values and expectations will be achieved. Using the capacity tools to assess IML will allow students, staff and the community to reflect on how well students are meeting learning needs as related to technology.\n\nThe IML Performance standards allow data collection and analysis to evidence that student-learning needs are being met. After assessing student IML, three questions can be asked:\n\n\nTeachers can use classroom assessment for learning to identify areas that might need increased focus and support. Students can use classroom assessment to set learning goals for themselves.\n\nThis integration of technology across the curriculum is a positive shift from computers being viewed as boxes to be learned to computers being used as technical communication tools. In addition, recent learning pedagogy recognizes the inclusion for students to be creators of knowledge through technology. International Society for Technology in Education (ISTE) has been developing a standard IML curriculum for the US and other countries by implementing the National Educational Technology Standards.\n\nIn the UK, IML has been promoted among educators through an information literacy website developed by several organizations that have been involved in the field.\n\nIML is included in the Partnership for the 21st Century program sponsored by the US Department of Education. Special mandates have been provided to Arizona, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, New Jersey, Massachusetts, North Carolina, South Dakota, West Virginia and Wisconsin. Individual school districts, such as the Clarkstown Central School District, have also developed their own information literacy curriculum. ISTE has also produced the National Educational Technology Standards for Students, Teachers and Administrators.\n\nIn British Columbia, Canada, the Ministry of Education has de-listed the Information Technology K to 7 IRP as a stand-alone course. It is still expected that all the prescribed learning outcomes continue to be integrated.\n\nThis integration of technology across the curriculum is a positive shift from computers being viewed as boxes to be learned to computers being used as technical communication tools. In addition, recent learning pedagogy recognizes the inclusion for students to be creators of knowledge through technology. Unfortunately, there has been no clear direction to implement IML.\n\nThe BC Ministry of Education published the Information and Communications Technology Integration Performance Standards, Grades 5 to 10 ICTI in 2005. These standards provide performance standards expectations for Grade 5 to 10; however, they do not provide guidance for other grades, and the expectation for a Grade 5 and Grade 10 student are the same.\n\nIn the Arab region, media and information literacy was largely ignored up until 2011, when the Media Studies Program at the American University of Beirut, the Open Society Foundations and the Arab-US Association for Communication Educators (AUSACE) launched a regional conference themed \"New Directions: Digital and Media Literacy\". The conference attracted significant attention from Arab universities and scholars, who discussed obstacles and needs to advance media literacy in the Arab region, including developing curricula in Arabic, training faculty and promoting the field. \n\nFollowing up on that recommendation, the Media Studies Program at AUB and the Open Society Foundations in collaboration with the Salzburg Academy on Media and Global Change launched in 2013 the first regional initiative to develop, vitalize, and advance media literacy education in the Arab region. The Media and Digital Literacy Academy of Beirut (MDLAB) offered an annual two-week summer training program in addition to working year-round to develop media literacy curricula and programs. The academy is conducted in Arabic and English and brings pioneering international instructors and professionals to teach advanced digital and media literacy concepts to young Arab academics and graduate students from various fields. MDLAB hopes that the participating Arab academics will carry what they learned to their countries and institutions and offers free curricular material in Arabic and English, including media literacy syllabi, lectures, exercises, lesson plans, and multi-media material, to assist and encourage the integration of digital and media literacy into Arab university and school curricula. \n\nIn recognition of MDLAB's accomplishments in advancing media literacy education in the Arab region, the founder of MDLAB received the 2015 UNESCO-UNAOC International Media and Information Literacy Award. \n\nPrior to 2013, only two Arab universities offered media literacy courses: the American University of Beirut (AUB) and the American University of Sharjah (AUS). Three years after the launch of MDLAB, over two dozen Arab universities incorporated media literacy education into their curricula, both as stand-alone courses or as modules injected into their existing media courses. Among the universities who have full-fledged media literacy courses (as of 2015) are Lebanese American University (Lebanon), Birzeit University (Palestine), University of Balamand (Lebanon), Damascus University (Syria), Rafik Hariri University (Lebanon), Notre Dame University (Lebanon), Ahram Canadian University (Egypt), American University of Beirut (Lebanon), American University of Sharjah (UAE), and Al Azm University (Lebanon). The first Arab school to adopt media literacy as part of its strategic plan is the International College (IC) in Lebanon. Efforts to introduce media literacy to the region's other universities and schools continues with the help of other international organizations, such as UNESCO, UNAOC, AREACORE, DAAD, and OSF.\n\nIn Singapore and Hong Kong, information literacy or information technology was listed as a formal curriculum.\n\nOne barrier to learning to read is the lack of books, while a barrier to learning IML is the lack of technology access. Highlighting the value of IML helps to identify existing barriers within school infrastructure, staff development, and support systems. While there is a continued need to work on the foundations to provide a sustainable and equitable access, the biggest obstacle is school climate.\n\nMarc Prensky identifies one barrier as teachers viewing digital devices as distractions: \"Let's admit the real reason that we ban cell phones is that, given the opportunity to use them, students would vote with their attention, just as adults would 'vote with their feet' by leaving the room when a presentation is not compelling.\"\n\nThe mindset of banning new technology, and fearing the bad things that can happen, can affect educational decisions. The decision to ban digital devices impacts students for the rest of their lives.\n\nAny tool that is used poorly or incorrectly can be unsafe. Safety lessons are mandatory in industrial technology and science. Yet safety or ethical lessons are not mandatory to use technology.\n\nNot all decisions in schools are measured by common ground beliefs. One school district in Ontario banned digital devices from their schools. Local schools have been looking at doing the same. These kinds of reactions are often about immediate actions and not about teaching, learning or creating solutions. Many barriers to IML exist.\n\n"}
{"id": "10035514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10035514", "title": "Intimate partner violence", "text": "Intimate partner violence\n\nIntimate partner violence (IPV) is domestic violence by a current or former spouse or partner in an intimate relationship against the other spouse or partner. IPV can take a number of forms, including physical, verbal, emotional, economic and sexual abuse. The World Health Organization (WHO) defines IPV as \"... any behaviour within an intimate relationship that causes physical, psychological or sexual harm to those in the relationship, including acts of physical aggression, sexual coercion, psychological abuse and controlling behaviors.\"\n\nThe most extreme form of such violence may be termed \"battering\", \"intimate terrorism\", \"coercive controlling violence\", or simply \"coercive control\", in which one person is violent and controlling; this is generally perpetrated by men against women, and is the most likely of the types to require medical services and the use of a women's shelter. Subsequently, resistance to intimate terrorism, which is a form of self-defense and may be termed \"violent resistance\", is usually conducted by women. Studies on domestic violence against men suggest that men are less likely to report domestic violence perpetrated by their female intimate partners.\n\nThe most common but less injurious form of intimate partner violence is \"situational couple violence\" (also known as \"situational violence\"), which is conducted by individuals of both genders nearly equally, and is more likely to occur among younger couples, including adolescents (see teen dating violence) and those of college age. A last form of violence, in which both partners in the relationship engage in controlling and violent behavior, is called \"mutual violent control\".\n\nIntimate partner violence occurs between two people in an intimate relationship. It may occur between heterosexual or homosexual couples and victims can be male or female. Couples may be dating, cohabiting or married and violence can occur in or outside of the home.\n\nStudies in the 1990s showed that both men and women could be abusers or victims of domestic violence. Women are more likely to act violently in retaliation or self-defense and tend to engage in less severe forms of violence than men whereas men are more likely to commit long-term cycles of abuse than women. \n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) defines intimate partner violence as \"any behaviour within an intimate relationship that causes physical, psychological or sexual harm to those in the relationship\". The WHO also adds controlling behaviors as a form of abuse.\n\nAccording to a study conducted in 2010, 30% of women globally aged 15 and older have experienced physical and/or sexual intimate partner violence.\n\nThe WHO reported in 2013 that the incidence of women who had experienced physical or sexual abuse from an intimate partner in their lifetime was:\n\nThe U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) as of 2018 recommends screening women of reproductive age.\n\nSome of the most studied IPV screening tools were the Hurt, Insult, Threaten, and Scream (HITS), the Woman Abuse Screening Tool/Woman Abuse Screening Tool-Short Form (WAST/WAST-SF), the Partner Violence Screen (PVS), and the Abuse Assessment Screen (AAS).\n\nThe HITS is a four-item scale rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 1 (never) to 5 (frequently). This tool was Initially developed and tested among family physicians and family practice offices, and since then has been evaluated in diverse outpatient settings. Internal reliability and concurrent validity are acceptable. Generally, sensitivity of this measure has found to be lower among men than among women.\n\nThe WAST is an eight-item measure (there is a short form of the WAST that consists of the first two items only). It was originally developed for family physicians, but subsequently has been tested in the emergency department. It has been found to have good internal reliability and acceptable concurrent validity.\n\nThe PVS is a three-item measure scored on a yes/no scale, with positive responses to any question denoting abuse. It was developed as a brief instrument for the emergency department.\n\nThe AAS is a five-item measure scored on a yes/no scale, with positive responses to any question denoting abuse. It was created to detect abuse perpetrated against pregnant women. The screening tool has been tested predominantly with young, poor women. It has acceptable test retest reliability.\n\nThe probably most widely used instrument in research on family violence is the Conflict Tactics Scale (CTS). Two versions have been developed from the original CTS: the CTS2 (an expanded and modified version of the original CTS) and the CTSPC (CTS Parent-Child).\n\nMichael P. Johnson argues for four major types of intimate partner violence (also known as \"Johnson's typology\"), which is supported by subsequent research and evaluation, as well as independent researchers. Distinctions are made among the types of violence, motives of perpetrators, and the social and cultural context based upon patterns across numerous incidents and motives of the perpetrator. The United States Centers for Disease Control (CDC) also divides domestic violence into types.<ref name=\"10.2105/AJPH.2005.079020\"></ref>. Elaine Storkey in her comprehensive analysis, Scars Across Humanity IVP Academic 2018, argues that intimate partner violence is one aspect of a global manifestation of violence against women. Other examples she cites are selective abortion, female genital mutilation, early, enforced marriage, honour killings, rape, trafficking, prostitution and sexual violence in war.\n\nIntimate terrorism, or coercive controlling violence (CCV), occurs when one partner in a relationship, typically a man, uses coercive control and power over the other partner, using threats, intimidation, and isolation. CCV relies on severe psychological abuse for controlling purposes; when physical abuse occurs it too is severe. In such cases, \"[o]ne partner, usually a man, controls virtually every aspect of the victim's, usually a woman's, life.\" Johnson reported in 2001 that 97% of the perpetrators of intimate terrorism were men.\n\nIntimate partner violence may involve sexual, sadistic control, economic, physical, emotional and psychological abuse. Intimate terrorism is more likely to escalate over time, not as likely to be mutual, and more likely to involve serious injury. The victims of one type of abuse are often the victims of other types of abuse. Severity tends to increase with multiple incidents, especially if the abuse comes in many forms. If the abuse is more severe, it is more likely to have chronic effects on victims because the long-term effects of abuse tend to be cumulative. Because this type of violence is most likely to be extreme, survivors of intimate terrorism are most likely to require medical services and the safety of shelters. Consequences of physical or sexual intimate terrorism include chronic pain, gastrointestinal and gynecological problems, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, and death. Other mental health consequences are anxiety, substance abuse, and low-self esteem.\n\nAbusers are more likely to have witnessed abuse as children than those who engage in situational couple violence.\n\nIntimate terrorism batterers include two types: \"Generally-violent-antisocial\" and \"dysphoric-borderline\". The first type includes people with general psychopathic and violent tendencies. The second type includes people who are emotionally dependent on the relationship. Violence by an individual against their intimate partner is often done as a way for controlling the partner, even if this kind of violence is not the most frequent.\n\nViolent resistance (VR), a form of self-defense, is violence perpetrated by victims against their partners who have exerted intimate terrorism against them. Within relationships of intimate terrorism and violent resistance, 96% of the violent resisters are women. VR can occur as an instinctive reaction in response to an initial attack or a defense mechanism after prolonged instances of violence. This form of resistance can sometimes become fatal if the victim feels as though their only way out is to kill their partner. \n\nSituational couple violence, also called common couple violence, is not connected to general control behavior, but arises in a single argument where one or both partners physically lash out at the other. This is the most common form of intimate partner violence, particularly in the western world and among young couples, and involves members of both sexes nearly equally. Among college students, Johnson found it to be perpetrated about 44% of the time by women and 56% of the time by men.\n\nJohnson states that situational couple violence involves a relationship dynamic \"in which conflict occasionally gets 'out of hand,' leading usually to 'minor' forms of violence, and rarely escalating into serious or life-threatening forms of violence.\"\n\nIn situational couple violence, acts of violence by men and women occur at fairly equal rates, with rare occurrences of injury, and are not committed in an attempt to control a partner. It is estimated that approximately 50% of couples experience situational couple violence in their relationships.\n\nSituational couple violence involves:\n\n\nMutual violent control (MVC) is rare type of intimate partner violence occurring when both partners act in a violent manner, battling for control.\n\nThe CDC divides domestic violence into two types: reciprocal, in which both partners are violent, and non-reciprocal violence, in which one partner is violent. Of the four types, situational couple violence and mutual violent control are reciprocal, while intimate terrorism is non-reciprocal. Violent resistance on its own is non-reciprocal, but is reciprocal when in response to intimate terrorism.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, studies using large, nationally representative samples resulted in findings indicating that women were as violent as men in intimate relationships. This information diverged significantly from shelter, hospital, and police data, initiating a long-standing debate, termed \"the gender symmetry debate\". One side of this debate argues that mainly men perpetrate IPV (the gender asymmetry perspective), whereas the other side maintains that both genders perpetrate IPV at about equal rates (gender symmetry perspective). However, research on gender symmetry acknowledges asymmetrical aspects of IPV, which show that men use more violent and often deadly means of IPV. Older conflict tactics scale (CTS) methodology was criticized for excluding two important facets in gender violence: conflict-motivated aggression and control-motivated aggression. For example, women commonly engage in IPV as a form of self-defense or retaliation. Research has shown that the nature of the abuse inflicted by women upon male partners is different from the abuse inflicted by men, in that it is generally not used as a form of control and does not cause the same levels of injury or fear of the abusive partner. Scholars state these cases should not be generalized and each couple's specificities must be assessed.\n\nWhile both women and men can be victims and perpetrators of IPV, the majority of such violence is inflicted upon women, who are also much more likely to suffer injuries as a result, in both heterosexual and same-sex relationships. Although men and women commit equivalent rates of unreported minor violence via situational altercation, more severe perpetration and domestic battery tends to be committed by men. This is based on newer CTS methodology as opposed to older versions that did not take into account the contexts in which violence takes place. A 2008 systematic review published in journal of \"Violence and Victims\" found that despite less serious altercation or violence being equal among both genders, more serious and violent abuse was perpetrated by men. It was also found that women's use of physical violence was more likely motivated by self-defense or fear whereas men's use of violence was motivated by control. A 2010 systematic review published in the journal of \"Trauma Violence Abuse\" found that the common motives for female on male IPV were anger, a need for attention, or as a response to their partner's violence. A 2011 review published in the journal of \"Aggression and Violent behavior\" found differences in the methods of abuse employed by men and women, suggesting that men were more likely to \"beat up, choke or strangle\" their partners, whereas women were more likely to \"throw something at their partner, slap, kick, bite, punch, or hit with an object\".\n\nResearchers such as Michael S Kimmel have criticized CTS methodology in assessing relations between gender and domestic violence. Kimmel argued that the CTS excluded two important facets in gender violence: conflict-motivated aggression and control motivated aggression. The first facet is a form of family conflict (such as an argument) while the latter is using violence as a tool for control. Kimmel also argued that the CTS failed to assess for the severity of the injury, sexual assaults and abuse from ex-partners or spouses.\n\nWomen generally suffer more severe and long-lasting forms of partner abuse than men, and men generally have more opportunities to leave an abusive partner than women do. Researchers have found different outcomes in men and women in response to such abuse. A 2012 review from the journal \"Psychology of Violence\" found that women suffered from over-proportionate numbers of injuries, fear, and posttraumatic stress as a result of partner violence. The review also found that 70% of female victims felt frightened as a result of violence perpetrated by their partners whereas 85% of male victims expressed \"no fear\" in response to such violence. Lastly, IPV correlated with relationship satisfaction for women but it did not do so for men.\n\nAccording to government statistics from the US Department of Justice, male perpetrators constituted 96% of federal prosecution on domestic violence. Another report by the US department of Justice on non-fatal domestic violence from 2003–2012 found that 76% of domestic violence was committed against women and 24% was committed against men. According to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the percentage of victims killed by their spouses or ex-spouses was 77.4% for women and 22.6% for men in selected countries across Europe. \n\nGlobally, men's perpetration of intimate partner violence against women often stems from conceptions of masculinity and patriarchy. Studies done in the United States, Nigeria, and Guatemala all support the idea of men reacting violently towards their partners when their masculinity is threatened by changing gender roles.\n\nThe theory that women perpetrate intimate partner violence (IPV) at roughly the same rate as men has been termed \"gender symmetry.\" The earliest empirical evidence of gender symmetry was presented in the 1975 U.S. National Family Violence Survey carried out by Murray A. Straus and Richard J. Gelles on a nationally representative sample of 2,146 \"intact families.\" The survey found 11.6% of men and 12% of women had experienced some kind of IPV in the last twelve months, while 4.6% of men and 3.8% of women had experienced \"severe\" IPV. \n\nThese unexpected results led Suzanne K. Steinmetz to coin the controversial term \"battered husband syndrome\" in 1977. Ever since the publication of Straus and Gelles' findings, other researchers into domestic violence have disputed whether gender symmetry really exists. Sociologist Michael Flood writes, \"there is no 'gender symmetry' in domestic violence; there are important differences between men's and women's typical patterns of victimization; and domestic violence represents only a small proportion of the violence to which men are subject\". \n\nOther empirical studies since 1975 suggest gender symmetry in IPV. Empirical studies suggest rates of perpetration remain symmetrical for both minor and severe abuse. This result may be due to a bi-directional or reciprocal pattern of abuse, with one study concluding that 70% of assaults involve mutual acts of violence. A 2011 meta-analyses by Straus, of 200 studies, indicated that men and women commit IPV against each other at the same rate. One reason that data may appear to reflect that men and women equally commit intimate partner violence is that women frequently engage in violent resistance as a means of self-defense against their violent male partners. A 2010 systematic review of the literature on women's perpetration of IPV, however, found that distinguishing between self-defense and retaliation was difficult. \n\nA 2013 review examined studies from five continents and the correlation between a country's level of gender inequality and rates of domestic violence. The authors found that when partner abuse is defined broadly to include emotional abuse, any kind of hitting, and who hits first, partner abuse is relatively even. They also stated if one examines who is physically harmed and how seriously, expresses more fear, and experiences subsequent psychological problems, domestic violence is significantly gendered toward women as victims.\n\nSexual violence by intimate partners varies by country and can reach as high as 25% of the women having been subject to forced sex. In some countries forced sex, or marital rape, often occurs with other forms of domestic violence, particularly physical abuse.\n\nDue to the high prevalence and devastating consequences of IPV, approaches to decrease and prevent violence from re-occurring is of upmost importance. Initial police response and arrest is not always enough to protect victims from recurrence of abuse; thus, many states have mandated participation in batterer intervention programs (BIPs) for men who have been charged with assault against an intimate partner. Most of these BIPs are based on the Duluth Model and incorporate some cognitive behavioral techniques.\n\nThe Duluth model is one of the most common current interventions for IPV. It represents a psycho-educational approach that was developed by paraprofessionals from information gathered from interviewing battered women in shelters and using principles from feminist and sociological frameworks. One of the main components used in the Duluth Model is the 'power and control wheel,' which conceptualizes IPV as one form of abuse to maintain male privilege. Using the 'power and control wheel,' the goal of treatment is to achieve behaviors that fall on the 'equality wheel' by re-educate men and by replacing maladaptive attitudes held by men.\n\nCognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) techniques focus on modifying faulty or problematic cognitions, beliefs, and emotions to prevent future violent behavior and include skills training such as anger management, assertiveness, and relaxation techniques.\n\nOverall, the addition of Duluth and CBT approaches results in a 5% reduction in IPV. This low reduction rate might be explained, at least in part, by the high prevalence of bidirectional violence as well as client-treatment matching versus “one-size-fits-all” approaches.\n\nAchieving change through values-based behavior (ACTV) is a newly developed Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT)-based program. Developed by domestic violence researcher Amie Zarling and colleagues at Iowa State University, the aim of ACTV is teach abusers \"situational awareness\"—to recognize and tolerate uncomfortable feelings – so that they can stop themselves from exploding into rage.\n\nInitial evidence of the ACTV program has shown high promise: Using a sample 3,474 men who were arrested for domestic assault and court-mandated to a BIP (either ACTV or Duluth/CBT), Zarling and colleagues showed that compared with Duluth/CBT participants, significantly fewer ACTV participants acquired any new charges, domestic assault charges, or violent charges. ACTV participants also acquired significantly fewer charges on average in the 1 year after treatment than Duluth/CBT participants.\n\nSome estimates show that as many as 50% of couples who experience IPV engage in some form of reciprocal violence. Nevertheless, most services address offenders and survivors separately. In addition, many couples who have experienced IPV decide to stay together. These couples may present to couples or family therapy. In fact, 37-58% of couples who seek regular outpatient treatment have experienced physical assault in the past year. In these cases, clinicians are faced with the decision as to whether they should accept or refuse to treat these couples. Although the use of conjoint treatment for IPV is controversial as it may present a danger to victims and potentially escalate abuse, it may be useful to others, such as couples experiencing situational couple violence. Scholars and practitioners in the field call for tailoring of interventions to various sub-types of violence and individuals served.\n\nBehavioral couple's therapy (BCT) is cognitive-behavioral approach, typically delivered to outpatients in 15-20 sessions over several months. Research suggests that BCT can be effective in reducing IPV when used to treat co-occurring addictions, which is important work because IPV and substance abuse and misuse frequently co-occur.\n\nDomestic conflict containment program (DCCP) is a highly structured skills-based program whose goal is to teach couples conflict containment skills.\n\nPhysical aggression couples treatment (PACT) is a modification of DCCP, which includes additional psychoeducational components designed to improve relationship quality, including such things as communication skills, fair fighting tactics, and dealing with gender differences, sex, and jealousy.\n\nThe primary goal of domestic violence focused couples treatment (DVFCT) is to end violence with the additional goal of helping couples improve the quality of their relationships. It is designed to be conducted over 18 weeks and can be delivered in either individual or multi-couple group format.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28702283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28702283", "title": "Islam and violence", "text": "Islam and violence\n\nMainstream Islamic law stipulates detailed regulations for the use of violence, including the use of violence within the family or household, the use of corporal and capital punishment, as well as how, when and against whom to wage war.\n\nSharia or sharia law is the basic Islamic religious law derived from the religious precepts of Islam, particularly the Quran and the opinions and life example of Muhammad (Hadith and Sunnah) which are the primary sources of sharia. For topics and issues not directly addressed in these primary sources, sharia is derived. The derivation differs between the various sects of Islam (Sunni and Shia are the majority), and various jurisprudence schools such as Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi'i, Hanbali and Jafari. The sharia in these schools is derived hierarchically using one or more of the following guidelines: Ijma (usually the consensus of Muhammad's companions), Qiyas (analogy derived from the primary sources), Istihsan (ruling that serves the interest of Islam in the discretion of Islamic jurists) and Urf (customs). Sharia is a significant source of legislation in various Muslim countries. Some apply all or a majority of the sharia, and these include Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Brunei, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Yemen and Mauritania. In these countries, sharia-prescribed punishments such as beheading, flogging and stoning continue to be practiced judicially or extrajudicially. The introduction of sharia is a longstanding goal for Islamist movements globally, but attempts to impose sharia have been accompanied by controversy, violence, and even warfare.\nThe differences between sharia and secular law have led to an ongoing controversy as to whether sharia is compatible with secular forms of government, human rights, freedom of thought, and women's rights.\n\nThe first military rulings were formulated during the first hundred years after Muhammad established an Islamic state in Medina. These rulings evolved in accordance with the interpretations of the Quran (the Muslim Holy scriptures) and Hadith (the recorded traditions of Muhammad). The key themes in these rulings were the justness of war (see Justice in the Quran), and the injunction to jihad. The rulings do not cover feuds and armed conflicts in general. The millennium of Muslim conquests could be classified, technically, as a religious war.\n\nSome have pointed out that the current Western view of the need for a clear separation between Church and State was only first legislated into effect after 18 centuries of Christianity in the Western world. While some majority Muslim governments such as Turkey and many of the majority Muslim former Soviet republics have officially attempted to incorporate this principle of such a separation of powers into their governments, the concept within the Muslim world yet remains somewhat in a state of ongoing evolution and flux.\n\nIslam has never had any officially recognized tradition of pacifism, and throughout its history warfare has been an integral part of the Islamic theological system. Since the time of Muhammad, Islam has considered warfare to be a legitimate expression of religious faith, and has accepted its use for the defense of Islam. During approximately the first 1,000 years of its existence, the use of warfare by Muslim majority governments often resulted in the de facto propagation of Islam.\n\nWhile the early spread of Islam was often borne on the back of military conquest, within Christianity its early spread was often a matter of political expediency. The minority Sufi movement within Islam, which includes certain pacifist elements, has often been officially \"tolerated\" by many Muslim majority governments. Additionally, some notable Muslim clerics, such as Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan have developed alternative non-violent Muslim theologies. Some hold that the formal juristic definition of war in Islam constitutes an irrevokable and permanent link within Islam between the political and religious justifications for war. The Quranic concept of \"Jihad\" includes aspects of both a physical and an internal struggle.\n\nJihad () is an Islamic term referring to the religious duty of Muslims to maintain the religion. In Arabic, the word \"jihād\" is a noun meaning \"to strive, to apply oneself, to struggle, to persevere\". A person engaged in jihad is called a \"mujahid\", the plural of which is \"mujahideen\" (). The word \"jihad\" appears frequently in the Quran, often in the idiomatic expression \"striving in the way of God \"(al-jihad fi sabil Allah)\"\", to refer to the act of striving to serve the purposes of God on this earth. According to the classical Sharia law manual of Shafi'i, Reliance of the Traveller, Jihad means to war against non-Muslims, and is etymologically derived from the word mujahada signifying warfare to establish the religion. Jihad is sometimes referred to as the sixth pillar of Islam, though it occupies no such official status. In Twelver Shi'a Islam, however, jihad is one of the ten Practices of the Religion.\n\nMuslims and scholars do not all agree on its definition. Many observers—both Muslim and non-Muslim—as well as the \"Dictionary of Islam\", talk of jihad having two meanings: an inner spiritual struggle (the \"greater jihad\"), and an outer physical struggle against the enemies of Islam (the \"lesser jihad\") which may take a violent or non-violent form. Jihad is often translated as \"Holy War\", although this term is controversial. According to orientalist Bernard Lewis, \"the overwhelming majority of classical theologians, jurists\", and specialists in the hadith \"understood the obligation of jihad in a military sense.\" Javed Ahmad Ghamidi states that there is consensus among Islamic scholars that the concept of jihad will always include armed struggle against wrongdoers.\n\nAccording to Jonathan Berkey, jihad in the Quran was maybe originally intended against Muhammad's local enemies, the pagans of Mecca or the Jews of Medina, but the Quranic statements supporting jihad could be redirected once new enemies appeared. The first documentation of the law of Jihad was written by 'Abd al-Rahman al-Awza'i and Muhammad ibn al-Hasan al-Shaybani.\n\nThe first forms of military Jihad occurred after the migration (hijra) of Muhammad and his small group of followers to Medina from Mecca and the conversion of several inhabitants of the city to Islam. The first revelation concerning the struggle against the Meccans was surah 22, verses 39–40:\nThe main focus of Muhammad's later years was increasing the number of allies as well as the amount of territory under Muslim control.\n\nAccording to Richard Edwards and Sherifa Zuhur, offensive jihad was the type of jihad practiced by the early Muslim community, because their weakness meant \"no defensive action would have sufficed to protect them against the allied tribal forces determined to exterminate them.\" Jihad as a collective duty (\"Fard Kifaya\") and offensive jihad are synonymous in classical Islamic law and tradition, which also asserted that offensive jihad could only be declared by the caliph, but an \"individually incumbent jihad\" (\"Fard Ayn\") required only \"awareness of an oppression targeting Islam or Islamic peoples.\"\n\nTina Magaard, associate professor at the Aarhus University Department of Business Development and Technology, has analyzed the texts of the 10 largest religions in the world. In an interview, she stated that the basic texts of Islam call for violence and aggression against followers of other faiths to a greater extent than texts of other religions. She has also argued that they contain direct incitements to terrorism.\n\nAccording to a number of sources, Shia doctrine taught that jihad (or at least full scale jihad) can only be carried out under the leadership of the Imam (who will return from occultation to bring absolute justice to the world). However, \"struggles to defend Islam\" are permissible before his return.\n\nGhazi () is an Arabic term originally referring to an individual who participates in Ghazw (غزو), meaning military expeditions or raiding; after the emergence of Islam, it took on new connotations of religious warfare. The related word Ghazwa (غزوة) is a singulative form meaning a battle or military expedition, often one led by Muhammad.\n\nThe Caravan raids were a series of raids in which Muhammed and his companions participated. The raids were generally offensive and carried out to gather intelligence or seize the trade goods of caravans financed by the Quraysh. The raids were intended to weaken the economy of Mecca by Muhammad. His followers were also impoverished. Muhammad broke an Arab tradition of not attacking one's own kinsmen by raiding caravans.\n\nIslamic Doctrines teachings on matters of war and peace have become topics of heated discussion in recent years. Charles Matthews writes that there is a \"large debate about what the Quran commands as regards the 'sword verses' and the 'peace verses'\". According to Matthews, \"the question of the proper prioritization of these verses, and how they should be understood in relation to one another, has been a central issue for Islamic thinking about war.\" According to Dipak Gupta, \"much of the religious justification of violence against nonbelievers (Dar ul Kufr) by the promoters of jihad is based on the Quranic “sword verses.”\nThe Quran contains passages that could be used to glorify or endorse violence.\n\nOn the other hand, other scholars argue that such verses of the Qur'an are interpreted out of context, Micheline R. Ishay has argued that \"the Quran justifies wars for self-defense to protect Islamic communities against internal or external aggression by non-Islamic populations, and wars waged against those who 'violate their oaths' by breaking a treaty\". and British orientalist Gottlieb Wilhelm Leitner stated that jihad, even in self-defence, is \"strictly limited\".\n\nHowever, according to Oliver Leaman, a number of Islamic jurists asserted the primacy of the “sword verses” over the conciliatory verses in specific historical circumstances. For example, according to Diane Morgan, Ibn Kathir (1301–1372) asserted that the Sword Verse abrogated all peace treaties that had been promulgated between Muhammad and idolaters.\n\nIslamic modernists reject the abrogating status of the sword verses, which would result in the abrogation (naskh) of numerous Quranic verses that counsel peace and reconciliation.\n\nPrior to the Hijra travel Muhammad struggled non-violently against his oppressors in Mecca. It wasn't until after the exile that the Quranic revelations began to adopt a more defensive perspective. From that point onward, those dubious about the need to go to war were typically portrayed as lazy cowards allowing their love of peace to become a fitna to them.\n\nThe context of the Quran is elucidated by Hadith (the teachings, deeds and sayings of Muhammad). Of the 199 references to jihad in perhaps the most standard collection of hadith—Bukhari—all refer to warfare.\n\nQuranists reject the hadith and follow the Quran only. The extent to which Quranists reject the authenticity of the Sunnah varies, but the more established groups have thoroughly criticised the authenticity of the hadith and refused it for many reasons, the most prevalent being the Quranist claim that hadith is not mentioned in the Quran as a source of Islamic theology and practice, was not recorded in written form until more than two centuries after the death of Muhammed, and contain perceived internal errors and contradictions.\n\nAccording to Ahmadi Muslim belief, Jihad can be divided into three categories: \"Jihad al-Akbar\" (Greater Jihad) is that against the self and refers to striving against one's low desires such as anger, lust and hatred; \"Jihad al-Kabīr\" (Great Jihad) refers to the peaceful propagation of Islam, with special emphasis on spreading the true message of Islam by the \"pen\"; \"Jihad al-Asghar\" (Smaller Jihad) is only for self-defence under situations of extreme religious persecution whilst not being able to follow one's fundamental religious beliefs, and even then only under the direct instruction of the Caliph. Ahmadi Muslims point out that as per Islamic prophecy, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad rendered Jihad in its military form as inapplicable in the present age as Islam, as a religion, is not being attacked militarily but through literature and other media, and therefore the response should be likewise. They believe that the answer of hate should be given by love. Concerning terrorism, the fourth Caliph of the Community writes:\nVarious Ahmadis scholars, such as Muhammad Ali, Maulana Sadr-ud-Din and Basharat Ahmad, argue that when the Quran's verses are read in context, it clearly appears that the Quran prohibits initial aggression, and allows fighting only in self-defense.\n\nAhmadi Muslims believe that no verse of the Quran abrogates or cancels another verse. All Quranic verses have equal validity, in keeping with their emphasis on the \"unsurpassable beauty and unquestionable validity of the Qur'ān\". The harmonization of apparently incompatible rulings is resolved through their juridical deflation in Ahmadī \"fiqh\", so that a ruling (considered to have applicability only to the specific situation for which it was revealed), is effective not because it was revealed last, but because it is most suited to the situation at hand.\n\nAhmadis are considered non-Muslims by the mainstream Muslims since they consider Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, founder of Ahmadiyya, as the promised Mahdi and Messiah. In a number of Islamic countries, especially Sunni-dominated nations, Ahmadis have been considered heretics and non-Muslim, and have been subject to various forms of religious persecution, discrimination and systematic oppression since the movement's inception in 1889.\n\nThe Islamic criminal law is criminal law in accordance with Sharia. Strictly speaking, Islamic law does not have a distinct corpus of \"criminal law.\" It divides crimes into three different categories depending on the offense – \"Hudud\" (crimes \"against God\", whose punishment is fixed in the Quran and the Hadiths); \"Qisas\" (crimes against an individual or family whose punishment is equal retaliation in the Quran and the Hadiths); and \"Tazir\" (crimes whose punishment is not specified in the Quran and the Hadiths, and is left to the discretion of the ruler or Qadi, i.e. judge). Some add the fourth category of \"Siyasah\" (crimes against government), while others consider it as part of either Hadd or Tazir crimes.\n\n\nThese punishments range from public lashing to publicly stoning to death, amputation of hands and crucifixion. However, in most Muslim nations in modern times public stoning and execution are relatively uncommon, although they are found in Muslim nations that follow a strict interpretation of \"sharia\", such as Saudi Arabia and Iran.\n\n\nBeheading was the normal method of executing the death penalty under classical Islamic law. It was also, together with hanging, one of the ordinary methods of execution in the Ottoman Empire.\n\nCurrently, Saudi Arabia is the only country in the world which uses decapitation within its Islamic legal system. The majority of executions carried out by the Wahhabi government of Saudi Arabia are public beheadings, which usually cause mass gatherings but are not allowed to be photographed or filmed.\n\nBeheading is reported to have been carried out by state authorities in Iran as recently as 2001, but as of 2014 is no longer in use.\nIt is also a legal form of execution in Qatar and Yemen, but the punishment has been suspended in those countries.\n\nIn recent times, non-state Jihadist organization such as ISIS and Tawhid and Jihad use or have used beheadings. Since 2002, they have circulated beheading videos as a form of terror and propaganda. Their actions have been condemned by other militant and terrorist groups, and well as by mainstream Islamic scholars and organizations.\n\nRajm () is an Arabic word that means \"stoning\". It is commonly used to refer to the \"Hudud\" punishment wherein an organized group throws stones at a convicted individual until that person dies. Under Islamic law, it is the prescribed punishment in cases of adultery committed by a married man or married woman. The conviction requires a confession from either the adulterer/adulteress, or the testimony of four witnesses (as prescribed by the Quran in Surah an-Nur verse 4), or pregnancy outside of marriage.\n\n\"See below Sexual crimes\"\n\nBlasphemy in Islam is impious utterance or action concerning God, Muhammad or anything considered sacred in Islam. The Quran admonishes blasphemy, but does not specify any worldly punishment for it. The hadiths, which are another source of Sharia, suggest various punishments for blasphemy, which may include death. There are a number of surah in Qur'an relating to blasphemy, from which Quranic verses 5:33 and 33:57-61 have been most commonly used in Islamic history to justify and punish blasphemers. Various fiqhs (schools of jurisprudence) of Islam have different punishment for blasphemy, depending on whether blasphemer is Muslim or non-Muslim, man or woman. The punishment can be fines, imprisonment, flogging, amputation, hanging, or beheading.\n\nMuslim clerics may call for the punishment of an alleged blasphemer by issuing a fatwā.\n\nAccording to Islamic sources Nadr ibn al-Harith, who was an Arab Pagan doctor from Taif, used to tell stories of Rustam and Esfandiyār to the Arabs and scoffed Muhammad. After the battle of Badr, al-Harith was captured and, in retaliation, Muhammad ordered his execution in hands of Ali.\n\nApostasy in Islam is commonly defined as the conscious abandonment of Islam by a Muslim in word or through deed. A majority considers apostasy in Islam to be some form of religious crime, although a minority does not.\n\nThe definition of apostasy from Islam and its appropriate punishment(s) are controversial, and they vary among Islamic scholars. Apostasy in Islam may include in its scope not only the renunciation of Islam by a Muslim and the joining of another religion or becoming non-religious, or questioning or denying any \"fundamental tenet or creed\" of Islam such as the divinity of God, prophethood of Muhammad, or mocking God, or worshipping one or more idols. The apostate (or murtadd مرتد) term has also been used for people of religions that trace their origins to Islam, such as the Bahá'ís in Iran, but who were never actually Muslims themselves. Apostasy in Islam does not include acts against Islam or conversion to another religion that is involuntary, due mental disorders, forced or done as concealment out of fear of persecution or during war (Taqiyya or Kitman).\n\nHistorically, the majority of Islamic scholars considered apostasy a hudud crime as well as a sin, an act of treason punishable with the death penalty, and the Islamic law on apostasy and the punishment one of the immutable laws under Islam. The punishment for apostasy includes state enforced annulment of his or her marriage, seizure of the person's children and property with automatic assignment to guardians and heirs, and a death penalty for apostates, typically after a waiting period to allow the apostate time to repent and return to Islam. Female apostates could be either executed, according to Shafi'i, Maliki, and Hanbali schools of Sunni Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh), or imprisoned until she reverts to Islam as advocated by the Sunni Hanafi school and by Shi'a scholars. The kind of apostasy generally deemed to be punishable by the jurists was of the political kind, although there were considerable legal differences of opinion on this matter. There where early Islamic scholars that did not agree with the death penalty and prescribed indefinite imprisonment until repentance. The Hanafi jurist Sarakhsi also called for different punishments between the non-seditious religious apostasy and that of seditious and political nature, or high treason. Some modern scholars also argue that the death penalty is an inappropriate punishment, inconsistent with the Quranic injunctions such as Quran 88:21-22 or \"no compulsion in religion\"; and/or that it is not a general rule but enacted at a time when the early Muslim community faced enemies who threatened its unity, safety, and security, and needed to prevent and punish the equivalent of desertion or treason, and should be enforced only if apostasy becomes a mechanism of public disobedience and disorder (\"fitna\"). According to Khalid Abu El Fadl, moderate Muslims reject such penalty.\n\nTo the Ahmadi Muslim sect, there is no punishment for apostasy, neither in the Qur'an nor as taught by the founder of Islam, Muhammad. This position of the Ahmadi sect is not widely accepted in other sects of Islam, and the Ahmadi sect acknowledges that major sects have a different interpretation and definition of apostasy in Islam. Ulama of major sects of Islam consider the Ahmadi Muslim sect as kafirs (infidels) and apostates.\n\nUnder current laws in Islamic countries, the actual punishment for the apostate ranges from execution to prison term to no punishment. Islamic nations with sharia courts use civil code to void the Muslim apostate's marriage and deny child custody rights, as well as his or her inheritance rights for apostasy. Twenty-three Muslim-majority countries, as of 2013, additionally covered apostasy in Islam through their criminal laws. Today, apostasy is a crime in 23 out 49 Muslim majority countries; in many other Muslim nations such as Indonesia and Morocco, apostasy is indirectly covered by other laws. It is subject in some countries, such as Iran and Saudi Arabia, to the death penalty, although executions for apostasy are rare. Apostasy is legal in secular Muslim countries such as Turkey. In numerous Islamic majority countries, many individuals have been arrested and punished for the crime of apostasy without any associated capital crimes. In a 2013 report based on an international survey of religious attitudes, more than 50% of the Muslim population in 6 Islamic countries supported the death penalty for any Muslim who leaves Islam (apostasy). A similar survey of the Muslim population in the United Kingdom, in 2007, found nearly a third of 16 to 24-year-old faithfuls believed that Muslims who convert to another religion should be executed, while less than a fifth of those over 55 believed the same.\n\nZina is an Islamic law, both in the four schools of Sunni fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence) and the two schools of Shi'a fiqh, concerning unlawful sexual relations between Muslims who are not married to one another through a Nikah. It includes extramarital sex and premarital sex, such as adultery (consensual sexual relations outside marriage), fornication (consensual sexual intercourse between two unmarried persons), illegal sex by a slave girl, and homosexuality (consensual sexual relations between same-sex partners). Traditionally, a married or unmarried Muslim male could have sex outside marriage with a non-Muslim slave girl, with or without her consent, and such sex was not considered zina.\n\nAccording to Quran 24:4, the proof that adultery has occurred requires four eyewitnesses to the act, which must have been committed by a man and a woman not validly married to one another, and the act must have been wilfully committed by consenting adults. Proof can also be determined by a confession. But this confession must be voluntary, and based on legal counsel; it must be repeated on four separate occasions, and made by a person who is sane. Otherwise, the accuser is then accorded a sentence for defamation (which means flogging or a prison sentence), and his or her testimony is excluded in all future court cases. There is disagreement between Islamic scholars on whether female eyewitnesses are acceptable witnesses in cases of zina (for other crimes, sharia considers two female witnesses equal the witness of one male).\n\nZina is a Hudud crime, stated in multiple sahih hadiths to deserve the stoning (Rajm) punishment. In others stoning is prescribed as punishment for illegal sex between man and woman, In some sunnah, the method of stoning, by first digging a pit and partly burying the person's lower half in it, is described. Based on these hadiths, in some Muslim countries, married adulterers are sentenced to death, while consensual sex between unmarried people is sentenced with flogging a 100 times. Adultery can be punished by up to one hundred lashes, though this is not binding in nature and the final decision will always be in the hands of a judge appointed by the state or community. However, no mention of stoning or capital punishment for adultery is found in the Quran and only mentioning lashing as punishment for adultery. Nevertheless, most scholars maintain that there is sufficient evidence from hadiths to derive a ruling.\n\nSharia law makes a distinction between adultery and rape and applies different rules. In the case of rape, the adult male perpetrator (i.e. rapist) of such an act is to receive the ḥadd zinā, but the non-consenting or invalidly consenting female (i.e. rape victim), proved by four eyewitnesses, is to be regarded as innocent of zinā and relieved of the ḥadd punishment. Confession and four witness-based prosecutions of zina are rare. Most cases of prosecutions are when the woman becomes pregnant, or when she has been raped, seeks justice and the sharia authorities charge her for zina, instead of duly investigating the rapist. Some fiqhs (schools of Islamic jurisprudence) created the principle of \"shubha\" (doubt), wherein there would be no zina charges if a Muslim man claims he believed he was having sex with a woman he was married to or with a woman he owned as a slave.\n\nZina only applies for unlawful sex between free Muslims; the rape of a non-Muslim slave woman is not zina as the act is considered an offense not against the raped slave woman, but against the owner of the slave.\n\nThe zina and rape laws of countries under Sharia law are the subjects of a global human rights debate and one of many items of reform and secularization debate with respect to Islam. Contemporary human right activists refer this as a new phase in the politics of gender in Islam, the battle between forces of traditionalism and modernism in the Muslim world, and the use of religious texts of Islam through state laws to sanction and practice gender-based violence.\n\nIn contrast to human rights activists, Islamic scholars and Islamist political parties consider 'universal human rights' arguments as imposition of a non-Muslim culture on Muslim people, a disrespect of customary cultural practices and sexual codes that are central to Islam. Zina laws come under hudud—seen as crime against Allah; the Islamists refer to this pressure and proposals to reform zina and other laws as ‘contrary to Islam’. Attempts by international human rights to reform religious laws and codes of Islam has become the Islamist rallying platforms during political campaigns.\n\nThe Quran contains seven references to fate of \"the people of Lut\", and their destruction is associated explicitly with their sexual practices:\nGiven that the Quran is allegedly vague regarding the punishment of homosexual sodomy, Islamic jurists, turned to the collections of the hadith and seerah (accounts of Muhammad's life) to support their argument for Hudud punishment. There were varying opinions on how the death penalty was to be carried out. Abu Bakr apparently recommended toppling a wall on the evil-doer, or else burning alive, while Ali bin Abi Talib ordered death by stoning for one \"luti\" and had another thrown head-first from the top of a minaret—according to Ibn Abbas, this last punishment must be followed by stoning. With few exceptions all scholars of Sharia, or Islamic law, interpret homosexual activity as a punishable offence as well as a sin. There is no specific punishment prescribed, however, and this is usually left to the discretion of the local authorities on Islam. There are several methods by which sharia jurists have advocated the punishment of gays or lesbians who are sexually active. One form of execution involves an individual convicted of homosexual acts being stoned to death by a crowd of Muslims. Other Muslim jurists have established ijma ruling that those committing homosexual acts be thrown from rooftops or high places, and this is the perspective of most Salafists.\n\nToday in most of the Islamic world homosexuality is not socially or legally accepted. In Afghanistan, Brunei, Gaza Strip, Iran, Mauritania, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, United Arab Emirates and Yemen, homosexual activity carries the death penalty. In others, such as Algeria, Maldives, Malaysia, Pakistan, Qatar, Somalia and Syria, it is illegal.\n\nSame-sex sexual intercourse is legal in 20 Muslim-majority nations (Albania, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Chad, Djibouti, Guinea-Bissau, Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, Mali, Niger, Tajikistan, Turkey, West Bank (State of Palestine), and most of Indonesia (except in Aceh and South Sumatra provinces, where bylaws against LGBT rights have been passed), as well as Northern Cyprus). In Albania, Lebanon, and Turkey, there have been discussions about legalizing same-sex marriage. Homosexual relations between females are legal in Kuwait, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, but homosexual acts between males are illegal.\n\nMost Muslim-majority countries and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) have opposed moves to advance LGBT rights at the United Nations, in the General Assembly and/or the UNHRC. In May 2016, a group of 51 Muslim states blocked 11 gay and transgender organizations from attending a high-level meeting at the United Nations on ending AIDS. However, Albania, Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone have signed a UN Declaration supporting LGBT rights. Kosovo as well as the (internationally not recognized) Muslim-majority Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus also have anti-discrimination laws in place.\n\nIn June 12, 2016, at least 49 people were killed and 50 injured in a mass shooting at Pulse gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, in the second deadliest mass shooting by an individual and the deadliest incident of violence against LGBT people in U.S. history. The shooter, Omar Mateen, pledged allegiance to ISIL. The act has been described by investigators as an Islamic terrorist attack and a hate crime, despite the revelation that he was suffering from mental health issues and acted alone. Upon further review, investigators indicated Omar Mateen showed few signs of radicalization, suggesting that the shooter's pledge to ISIL may have been a calculated move to garner more news coverage. Afghanistan, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Turkmenistan and United Arab Emirates condemned the attack. Many American Muslims, including community leaders, swiftly condemned the attack. Prayer vigils for the victims were held at mosques across the country. The Florida mosque where Mateen sometimes prayed issued a statement condemning the attack and offering condolences to the victims. The Council on American–Islamic Relations called the attack \"monstrous\" and offered its condolences to the victims. CAIR Florida urged Muslims to donate blood and contribute funds in support of the victims' families.\n\nWhile some authors, such as Phyllis Chesler, argue that Islam is connected to violence against women, especially in the form of honor killings, others, such as Tahira Shahid Khan, a professor specializing in women's issues at the Aga Khan University in Pakistan, argue that it is the domination of men and inferior status of women in society that lead to these acts, not the religion itself. Public (such as through the media) and political discourse debating the relation between Islam, immigration, and violence against women is highly controversial in many Western countries.\n\nMany scholars claim Shari'a law encourages domestic violence against women, when a husband suspects \"nushuz\" (disobedience, disloyalty, rebellion, ill conduct) in his wife. Other scholars claim wife beating, for \"nashizah\", is not consistent with modern perspectives of Qur'an. Some conservative translations find that Muslim husbands are permitted to act what is known in Arabic as Idribuhunna with the use of \"light force,\" and sometimes as much as to strike, hit, chastise, or beat.\n\nOther interpretations of the verse claim it does not support hitting a woman, but separating from her. Variations in interpretation are due to different schools of Islamic jurisprudence, histories and politics of religious institutions, conversions, reforms, and education.\n\nAlthough Islam permits women to divorce for domestic violence, they are subject to the laws of their nation which might make it quite difficult for a woman to obtain a divorce. In deference to Surah 4:34, many nations with Shari'a law have refused to consider or prosecute cases of domestic abuse.\n\nIslamic terrorism is, by definition, terrorist acts committed by Muslim groups or individuals who profess Islamic or Islamist motivations or goals. Islamic terrorists have relied on particular interpretations of the tenets of the Quran and the Hadith, citing these scriptures to justify violent tactics including mass murder, genocide, child-molestation and slavery. In recent decades, incidents of Islamic terrorism have occurred on a global scale, occurring not only in Muslim-majority states in Africa and Asia, but also abroad in Europe, Russia, and the United States, and such attacks have targeted Muslims and non-Muslims. In a number of the worst-affected Muslim-majority regions, these terrorists have been met by armed, independent resistance groups, state actors and their proxies, and politically liberal Muslim protesters.\n\nIslam does not have any normative tradition of pacifism, and warfare has been integral part of Islamic history both for the defense and the spread of the faith since the time of Muhammad. Prior to the Hijra travel Muhammad struggled non-violently against his opposition in Mecca. It was not until after the exile that the Quranic revelations began to adopt a more violent perspective. Fighting in self-defense is not only legitimate but considered obligatory upon Muslims, according to the Qur'an. The Qur'an, however, says that should the enemy's hostile behavior cease, then the reason for engaging the enemy also lapses.\nHowever, different Muslim movements through history had linked pacifism with Muslim theology.\n\nPhilip W. Sutton and Stephen Vertigans describe Western views on Islam as based on a stereotype of it as an inherently violent religion, characterizing it as a 'religion of the sword'. They characterize the image of Islam in the Western world as \"dominated by conflict, aggression, 'fundamentalism', and global-scale violent terrorism.\"\n\nJuan Eduardo Campo writes that, \"Europeans (have) viewed Islam in various ways: sometimes as a backward, violent religion; sometimes as an Arabian Nights fantasy; and sometimes as a complex and changing product of history and social life.\" Robert Gleave writes that, \"at the centre of popular conceptions of Islam as a violent religion are the punishments carried out by regimes hoping to bolster both their domestic and international Islamic credentials.\"\n\nThe 9/11 attack on the US has led many non-Muslims to indict Islam as a violent religion. According to Corrigan and Hudson, \"some conservative Christian leaders (have) complained that Islam (is) incompatible with what they believed to be a Christian America.\" Examples of evangelical Christians who have expressed such sentiments include Franklin Graham, an American Christian evangelist and missionary, and Pat Robertson, an American media mogul, executive chairman, and a former Southern Baptist minister. According to a survey conducted by LifeWay Research, a research group affiliated with the Southern Baptist Convention, said that two out of three Protestant pastors believe that Islam is a \"dangerous\" religion. Ed Stetzer, President of LifeWay, said \"It's important to note our survey asked whether pastors viewed Islam as 'dangerous,' but that does not necessarily mean 'violent.\" \nDr. Johannes J.G. Jansen was an Arabist who wrote an essay called “Religious Roots of Muslim Violence”, in which he discusses at length all aspects of the issue and unequivocally concludes that Muslim violence is mostly based on Islamic religious commands.\n\nMedia coverage on terrorist attacks play a critical role in creating negative perceptions on Islam and Muslims. Powell described how Islam initially appeared in U.S. news cycles because of its relationships to oil, Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, and terrorism (92). Thus the audience was provided the base to associate Muslims to control of the resource of oil, war, and terrorism. A total of 11 terrorist attacks in the U.S. soil since the 9/11 and their content coverage (in 1,638 news stories) in the national media had been analyzed \"through frames composed of labels, common themes, and rhetorical associations\" (Powell 94). The key findings are summarized below: \n\nIslamophobia denotes the prejudice against, hatred towards, or fear of the religion of Islam or Muslims. While the term is now widely used, both the term itself and the underlying concept of Islamophobia have been heavily criticized. In order to differentiate between prejudiced views of Islam and secularly motivated criticism of Islam other terms have been proposed. The causes and characteristics of Islamophobia are still debated. Some commentators have posited an increase in Islamophobia resulting from the September 11 attacks, while others have associated it with the increased presence of Muslims in the United States, the European Union and other secular nations. Steven Salaita contends that indeed since 9/11, Arab Americans have evolved from what Nadine Naber described as an invisible group in the United States into a highly visible community that directly or indirectly has an effect on the United States' culture wars, foreign policy, presidential elections and legislative tradition.\n\nIn response to these perceptions, Ram Puniyani, a secular activist and writer, says that \"Islam does not condone violence but, like other religions, does believe in self-defence\".\n\nMark Juergensmeyer describes the teachings of Islam as ambiguous about violence. He states that, like all religions, Islam occasionally allows for force while stressing that the main spiritual goal is one of nonviolence and peace. Ralph W. Hood, Peter C. Hill and Bernard Spilka write in \"The Psychology of Religion: An Empirical Approach\", \"Although it would be a mistake to think that Islam is inherently a violent religion, it would be equally inappropriate to fail to understand the conditions under which believers might feel justified in acting violently against those whom their tradition feels should be opposed.\"\n\nSimilarly, Chandra Muzaffar, a political scientist, Islamic reformist and activist, says, \"The Quranic exposition on resisting aggression, oppression and injustice lays down the parameters within which fighting or the use of violence is legitimate. What this means is that one can use the Quran as the criterion for when violence is legitimate and when it is not.\"\n\nPew research in 2010 found that in Jordan, Lebanon, and Nigeria, roughly 50% of Muslims had favourable views of Hezbollah, and that Hamas also saw similar support. Counter-terrorism researchers suggests that support for suicide bombings is rooted in opposition to real or perceived foreign military occupation, rather than Islam, according to a Department of Defense-funded study by University of Chicago researcher Robert Pape.\n\nWriting for the National Post, Barbara Kay stated that honor killing is not strictly a Muslim phenomenon and that it is enabled by factors including sexism, dowries and a lack of a dependable legal system. Nevertheless, Kay says that the murders are a Muslim phenomenon in the West, where 95% of honor killings are perpetrated by \"Muslim fathers and brothers or their proxies\". Kay warns that females do not dissent as one might expect either: The women may describe victims of honor killing as having needed punishment.\n\nThe Pew Research Center also found that support for the death penalty as punishment for \"people who leave the Muslim religion\" was 86% in Jordan, 84% in Egypt, 76% in Pakistan, 80% in Nigeria (all very large Muslim populations) and yet lower in some other countries. The different factors at play (e.g. sectarianism, poverty, etc.) and their relative impacts are not clarified.\n\nAccording to 2006 data, Pew says that 46% of Nigerian Muslims, 29% of Jordan Muslims, 28% of Egyptian Muslims, 15% of British Muslims, and 8% of American Muslims thought suicide bombings are often or sometimes justified. The figure was unchanged – still 8% – for American Muslims by 2011.\n\nPolls have found Muslim-Americans to report less violent views than any other religious group in America. 89% of Muslim-Americans claimed that the killing of civilians is never justified, compared to 71% of Catholics and Protestants, 75% of Jews, and 76% of atheists and non-religious groups.\n\nThe Pew Research Center's 2013 poll showed that the majority of 14,244 Muslim, Christian and other respondents in 14 countries with substantial Muslim populations are concerned about Islamic extremism and hold negative views on known terrorist groups.\n\nGallup poll collected extensive data in a project called \"Who Speaks for Islam?\". John Esposito and Dalia Mogahed present data relevant to Islamic views on peace, and more, in their book \"Who Speaks for Islam?\" The book reports Gallup poll data from random samples in over 35 countries using Gallup's various research techniques (e.g. pairing male and female interviewers, testing the questions beforehand, communicating with local leaders when approval is necessary, travelling by foot if that is the only way to reach a region, etc.) \n\nThere was a great deal of data. It suggests, firstly, that individuals who dislike America and consider the September 11 attacks to be \"perfectly justified\" form a statistically distinct group, with much more extreme views. The authors call this 7% of Muslims \"Politically Radicalized\". They chose that title \"because of their radical political orientation\" and clarify \"we are not saying that all in this group commit acts of violence. However, those with extremist views are a potential source for recruitment or support for terrorist groups.\" The data also indicates that poverty is not simply to blame for the comparatively radical views of this 7% of Muslims, who tend to be better educated than moderates.\n\nThe authors say that, contrary to what the media may indicate, most Muslims believe that the September 11 attacks cannot actually be justified at all. The authors called this 55% of Muslims \"Moderates\". Included in that category were an additional 12% who said the attacks \"almost\" cannot be justified at all (thus 67% of Muslims were classified as Moderates). 26% of Muslims were neither moderates nor radicals, leaving the remaining 7% called \"Politically Radicalized\". Esposito and Mogahed explain that the labels should not be taken as being perfectly definitive. Because there may be individuals who would generally not be considered radical, although they believe the attacks were justified, or vice versa.\n\n"}
{"id": "70973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70973", "title": "Jackson structured programming", "text": "Jackson structured programming\n\nJackson structured programming (JSP) is a method for structured programming based on correspondences between data stream structure and program structure. JSP structures programs and data in terms of sequences, iterations and selections, and as a consequence it is applied when designing a program's detailed control structure. The method applies to processing of any data structure or data stream that is describable as a hierarchical structure of sequential, optional and iterated elements. This could be a stream of messages that a process reads to invoke and coordinate other modules or objects, or it could be a string of characters in parameters passed to a single operation on an \"object\" coded in an object-oriented programming language. In other words, it could be either above or below the level where object-oriented methods are applied \n\nMichael A. Jackson originally developed JSP in the 1970s. He documented the system in his 1975 book \"Principles of Program Design\". In a 2001 conference talk, he provided a retrospective analysis of the original driving forces behind the method, and related it to subsequent software engineering developments. Jackson's aim was to make COBOL batch file processing programs easier to modify and maintain, but the method can be used to design programs for any programming language that has structured control constructs, languages such as C, Java and Perl. Despite its age, JSP is still in use and is supported by diagramming tools such as Microsoft's Visio and CASE tools such as Jackson Workbench.\n\nJackson Structured Programming was seen by many as related to Warnier structured programming, but the latter method focused almost exclusively on the structure of the output stream. JSP and Warnier's method both structure programs and data using only sequences, iterations and selections, so they essentially create programs that are parsers for regular expressions which simultaneously match the program's input and output data streams.\n\nBecause JSP focuses on the existing input and output data streams, designing a program using JSP is claimed to be more straightforward than with other structured programming methods, avoiding the leaps of intuition needed to successfully program using methods such as top-down decomposition.\n\nAnother consequence of JSP's focus on data streams is that it creates program designs with a very different structure to the kind created by the stepwise refinement methods of Wirth and Dijkstra. One typical feature of the structure of JSP programs is that they have several input operations distributed throughout the code in contrast to programs designed using stepwise refinement, which tend to have only one input operation. Jackson illustrates this difference in Chapter 3 of \"Principles of Program Design\". He presents two versions of a program, one designed using JSP, the other using \"traditional\" methods.\n\nFor an example comparing Jackson Structured Programming to \"traditional\" structured programming, let us consider a Java program to count repeated lines in a file.\n\nThe JSP version of the program is structurally equivalent to\n\nand the traditional version of the program is equivalent to\n\nJackson criticises the traditional version, claiming that it hides the relationships which exist between the input lines, compromising the program's understandability and maintainability by, for example, forcing the use of a special case for the first line and forcing another special case for a final output operation.\n\nJSP uses semi-formal steps to capture the existing structure of a program's inputs and outputs in the structure of the program itself.\n\nThe intent is to create programs which are easy to modify over their lifetime. Jackson's major insight was that requirement changes are usually minor tweaks to the existing structures. For a program constructed using JSP, the inputs, the outputs, and the internal structures of the program all match, so small changes to the inputs and outputs should translate into small changes to the program.\n\nJSP structures programs in terms of four component types:\n\n\nThe method begins by describing a program's inputs in terms of the four fundamental component types. It then goes on to describe the program's outputs in the same way. Each input and output is modelled as a separate Data Structure Diagram (DSD). To make JSP work for compute-intensive applications, such as digital signal processing (DSP) it is also necessary to draw algorithm structure diagrams, which focus on internal data structures rather than input and output ones.\n\nThe input and output structures are then unified or merged into a final program structure, known as a Program Structure Diagram (PSD). This step may involve the addition of a small amount of high level control structure to marry up the inputs and outputs. Some programs process all the input before doing any output, whilst others read in one record, write one record and iterate. Such approaches have to be captured in the PSD.\n\nThe PSD, which is language neutral, is then implemented in a programming language. JSP is geared towards programming at the level of control structures, so the implemented designs use just primitive operations, sequences, iterations and selections. JSP is not used to structure programs at the level of classes and objects, although it can helpfully structure control flow within a class's methods.\n\nJSP uses a diagramming notation to describe the structure of inputs, outputs and programs, with diagram elements for each of the fundamental component types.\n\nA simple operation is drawn as a box.\n\n<br>An operation\n\nA sequence of operations is represented by boxes connected with lines. In the example below, operation A consists of the sequence of operations B, C and D.\n\n<br>A sequence\n\nAn iteration is again represented with joined boxes. In addition the iterated operation has a star in the top right corner of its box. In the example below, operation A consists of an iteration of zero or more invocations of operation B.\n\n<br>An iteration\n\nSelection is similar to a sequence, but with a circle drawn in the top right hand corner of each optional operation. In the example, operation A consists of one and only one of operations B, C or D.\n\n<br>A selection\n\nAs an example, here is how a programmer would design and code a run length encoder using JSP.\n\nA run length encoder is a program which takes as its input a stream of bytes. It outputs a stream of pairs consisting of a byte along with a count of the byte's consecutive occurrences. Run length encoders are often used for crudely compressing bitmaps.\n\nWith JSP, the first step is to describe the structure of a program's inputs. A run length encoder has only one input, a stream of bytes which can be viewed as zero or more \"runs\". Each run consists of one or more bytes of the same value. This is represented by the following JSP diagram.\n\n<br>The run length encoder input\n\nThe second step is to describe the structure of the output. The run length encoder output can be described as zero or more pairs, each pair consisting of a byte and its count. In this example, the count will also be a byte.\n\n<br>The run length encoder output\n\nThe next step is to describe the correspondences between the operations in the input and output structures.\n\n<br>The correspondences between the run length encoders inputs and its outputs\n\nIt is at this stage that the astute programmer may encounter a \"structure clash\", in which there is no obvious correspondence between the input and output structures. If a structure clash is found, it is usually resolved by splitting the program into two parts, using an intermediate data structure to provide a common structural framework with which the two program parts can communicate. The two programs parts are often implemented as processes or coroutines.\n\nIn this example, there is no structure clash, so the two structures can be merged to give the final program structure.\n\n<br>The run length encoder program structure\n\nAt this stage the program can be fleshed out by hanging various primitive operations off the elements of the structure. Primitives which suggest themselves are\n\n\nThe iterations also have to be fleshed out. They need conditions added. Suitable conditions would be\n\n\nIf we put all this together, we can convert the diagram and the primitive operations into C, maintaining a one-to-one correspondence between the code and the operations and structure of the program design diagram.\n\nThis method will work only when translation from input to output is equivalent to a context-free grammar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1937216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1937216", "title": "Kavka's toxin puzzle", "text": "Kavka's toxin puzzle\n\nKavka's toxin puzzle is a thought experiment about the possibility of forming an intention to perform an act which, following from reason, is an action one would not actually perform. It was presented by moral and political philosopher Gregory S. Kavka in \"The Toxin Puzzle\" (1983), and grew out of his work in deterrence theory and mutual assured destruction.\n\nKavka's original version of the puzzle is the following:\n\"An eccentric billionaire places before you a vial of toxin that, if you drink it, will make you painfully ill for a day, but will not threaten your life or have any lasting effects. The billionaire will pay you one million dollars tomorrow morning if, at midnight tonight, you \"intend\" to drink the toxin tomorrow afternoon. He emphasizes that you need not drink the toxin to receive the money; in fact, the money will already be in your bank account hours before the time for drinking it arrives, if you succeed. All you have to do is. . . intend at midnight tonight to drink the stuff tomorrow afternoon. You are perfectly free to change your mind after receiving the money and not drink the toxin.\"\nA possible interpretation: Can you intend to drink the toxin if you also intend to change your mind at a later time?\n\nThe paradoxical nature can be stated in many ways, which may be useful for understanding analysis proposed by philosophers:\n\nSince the pain caused by the poison would be more than off-set by the money received, we can sketch the pay-off table as follows.\nAccording to Kavka: Drinking the poison is never to your advantage regardless of whether you are paid. A rational person would know he would not drink the poison and thus could not intend to drink it.\nDavid Gauthier argues once a person intends drinking the poison one cannot entertain ideas of not drinking it.\nOne of the central tenets of the puzzle is that for a reasonable person\n\nThus a reasonable person must intend to drink the toxin by the first argument, yet if that person intends to drink the toxin, he is being irrational by the second argument.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13372337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13372337", "title": "Language nest", "text": "Language nest\n\nLanguage nests, an immersion-based approach to language revitalization, originated in New Zealand in 1982 as a part of the Māori language revival. The term \"language nest\" is a translation of the Māori phrase \"kōhanga reo\".\n\nIn a language nest, older speakers of the language take part in early-childhood education with a view to improving intergenerational language transference.\n\nThe first \"kōhanga reo\" was founded in Wainuiomata in 1982, and was followed by the establishment of primary schools and secondary schools (Kura Kaupapa Māori) where Māori is the primary language of instruction.\n\nAccording to Al Jazeera, the percentage of Maori people speaking the language has increased by a few percentage points from the early 1980s to 2014. Linguist Christopher Moseley says that this statistic is \"quite encouraging\" because \"compared to how quickly a language can disappear, in just one generation in extreme cases, the figures are good.\"\n\nIn Hawaii, the Hawaiian-language equivalent, the Pūnana Leo, has been running for 24 years and has also been successful in producing first-language speakers of Hawaiian.\n\nIn Minnesota, the Enweyang Ojibwe Language Nest, started in 2009. In collaboration with UMD's College of Education and Human Services Professionals and Eni-gikendaasoyang, the Center for Indigenous Knowledge and Language Revitalization, the program targets 4-5 year olds in a half day session in the Duluth area.\n\nIn North Dakota, Lakȟól’yapi Wahóȟpi, the Lakota Language Immersion Nest, opened on September 12, 2012. Full day schooling aimed at 3-year olds, with parents also receiving training to encourage at home efforts is key to this program. \n\nIn August 2009, the Australian government pledged to pilot language nests as part of its National Indigenous Languages Policy. The first of five Aboriginal language and culture nests in New South Wales launched in 2013, although these are government service delivery centres and not immersion pre-schools. The Miriwoong Language Nest has been running in Kununurra since early 2014 with over 300 children attending per week.\n\nA study in 2004 reported on two language nests in British Columbia: a \"Cseyseten\" (\"language nest\") at Adam’s Lake in the Secwepemc language, and a \"Clao7alcw\" (\"Raven’s nest\") at Lil’wat Nation in the Lil’wat language written about by Onowa McIvor for her Master's thesis.\n\nThe First Peoples' Cultural Council in Canada provides grants to First Nations communities in British Columbia as part of the Pre-School Language Nest Program.\n\nIn the Northwest Territories, there are language nests for each of the official Aboriginal languages, with more than 20 language nests in total.\n\nThere is only one language nest for Võro working three days a week in Haanja and several initiatives, so called \"language nest days\" (\"keelepesäpäiv\") that are working one day in week in 18 different kindergartens of Võro area. Võro language nest initiatives are organised by Võro Institute.\n\nThere are language nests for Inari Sámi, Skolt Sami, and the Karelian languages in Finland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "743351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=743351", "title": "Loesje", "text": "Loesje\n\nLoesje (; ) is an international free speech organisation started in Arnhem (Netherlands) in 1983 and went international in 1989. Its charter is to spread creativity, positive criticism, ideas, philosophical ponderings and thoughts on current events by way of short slogans on posters. The posters are signed by Loesje, which is a Dutch female name, representing \"a world wide collective of people who want to make the world a more positive creative place\".\n\nLoesje is currently to some extent active in over 30 countries, including Argentina, Armenia, Bosnia, Belgium, Spain, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, the United States of America, and Palestine. In one country it is possible to have several more or less active writing groups.\n\nIt is not clear how many active writers there are and also the number of people who decide to spread the posters that can be downloaded from the poster archive. The organisation cannot hold track of who spreads posters and where, partly because it is impossible to see how often a poster is downloaded (or printed at home) from the website, and partly because Loesje is not responsible for any misdeeds of individuals who paste posters on places where it is illegal.\n\nBetween 2005 and 2013, Loesje's international headquarters were located in Berlin, but since then Loesje International has moved back to Arnhem. From there Loesje implements and coordinates many diverse international projects around the world. Loesje gives creative writing workshops, for team building for example and joins conferences about issues that connect to her values, such as this environmental conference called Caretakers of the environment international in 2012 in Maastricht in the Netherlands. Loesje is especially active on World Press Freedom Day.\n\n\nLinks to websites of specific countries\n"}
{"id": "648543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=648543", "title": "Logotherapy", "text": "Logotherapy\n\nLogotherapy was developed by neurologist and psychiatrist Viktor Frankl. It is considered the \"Third Viennese School of Psychotherapy\" along with Freud's psychoanalysis and Adler's individual psychology.\n\nLogotherapy is based on an existential analysis focusing on Kierkegaard's \"will to meaning\" as opposed to Adler's Nietzschean doctrine of \"will to power\" or Freud's \"will to pleasure\". Rather than power or pleasure, logotherapy is founded upon the belief that striving to find meaning in life is the primary, most powerful motivating and driving force in humans. A short introduction to this system is given in Frankl's most famous book, \"Man's Search for Meaning\", in which he outlines how his theories helped him to survive his Holocaust experience and how that experience further developed and reinforced his theories. Presently, there are a number of logotherapy institutes around the world.\n\nThe notion of \"Logotherapy\" was created with the Greek word \"logos\" (\"reason\"). Frankl’s concept is based on the premise that the primary motivational force of an individual is to find a meaning in life. The following list of tenets represents basic principles of logotherapy:\n\nThe human spirit is referred to in several of the assumptions of logotherapy, but the use of the term spirit is not \"spiritual\" or \"religious\". In Frankl's view, the spirit is the will of the human being. The emphasis, therefore, is on the search for meaning, which is not necessarily the search for God or any other supernatural being. Frankl also noted the barriers to humanity's quest for meaning in life. He warns against \"...affluence, hedonism, [and] materialism...\" in the search for meaning.\n\nPurpose in life and meaning in life constructs appeared in Frankl's logotherapy writings with relation to existential vacuum and will to meaning, as well as others who have theorized about and defined positive psychological functioning. Frankl observed that it may be psychologically damaging when a person's search for meaning is blocked. Positive life purpose and meaning was associated with strong religious beliefs, membership in groups, dedication to a cause, life values, and clear goals. Adult development and maturity theories include the purpose in life concept. Maturity emphasizes a clear comprehension of life's purpose, directedness, and intentionality which contributes to the feeling that life is meaningful.\n\nFrankl's ideas were operationalized by Crumbaugh and Maholick's Purpose in Life (PIL) test, which measures an individual's meaning and purpose in life. With the test, investigators found that meaning in life mediated the relationships between religiosity and well-being; uncontrollable stress and substance use; depression and self-derogation. Crumbaugh found that the Seeking of Noetic Goals Test (SONG) is a complementary measure of the PIL. While the PIL measures the presence of meaning, the SONG measures orientation towards meaning. A low score in the PIL but a high score in the SONG, would predict a better outcome in the application of Logotherapy.\n\nAccording to Frankl, \"We can discover this meaning in life in three different ways: (1) by creating a work or doing a deed; (2) by experiencing something or encountering someone; and (3) by the attitude we take toward unavoidable suffering\" and that \"everything can be taken from a man but one thing: the last of the human freedoms – to choose one's attitude in any given set of circumstances\". On the meaning of suffering, Frankl gives the following example:\n\n\"Once, an elderly general practitioner consulted me because of his severe depression. He could not overcome the loss of his wife who had died two years before and whom he had loved above all else. Now how could I help him? What should I tell him? I refrained from telling him anything, but instead confronted him with a question, \"What would have happened, Doctor, if you had died first, and your wife would have had to survive without you?:\" \"Oh,\" he said, \"for her this would have been terrible; how she would have suffered!\" Whereupon I replied, \"You see, Doctor, such a suffering has been spared her, and it is you who have spared her this suffering; but now, you have to pay for it by surviving and mourning her.\" He said no word but shook my hand and calmly left the office.\n\nFrankl emphasized that realizing the value of suffering is meaningful only when the first two creative possibilities are not available (for example, in a concentration camp) and only when such suffering is inevitablehe was not proposing that people suffer unnecessarily.\n\nFrankl described the meta-clinical implications of logotherapy in his book \"The Will to Meaning: Foundations and Applications of Logotherapy\". He believed that there is no psychotherapy apart from the theory of man. As an existential psychologist, he inherently disagreed with the “machine model” or “rat model”, as it undermines the human quality of humans. As a neurologist and psychiatrist, Frankl developed a unique view of determinism to coexist with the three basic pillars of logotherapy (the freedom of will). Though Frankl admitted that man can never be free from every condition, such as, biological, sociological, or psychological determinants, based on his experience during his life in the Nazi concentration camps, he believed that man is “capable of resisting and braving even the worst conditions”. In doing such, man can detach from situations, himself, choose an attitude about himself, determine his own determinants, thus shaping his own character and becoming responsible for himself.\n\nBy recognizing the purpose of our circumstances, one can master anxiety. Anecdotes about this use of logotherapy are given by \"New York Times\" writer Tim Sanders, who explained how he uses its concept to relieve the stress of fellow airline travelers by asking them the purpose of their journey. When he does this, no matter how miserable they are, their whole demeanor changes, and they remain happy throughout the flight. Overall, Frankl believed that the anxious individual does not understand that his anxiety is the result of dealing with a sense of “unfulfilled responsibility” and ultimately a lack of meaning.\n\nFrankl cites two neurotic pathogens: hyper-intention, a forced intention toward some end which makes that end unattainable; and hyper-reflection, an excessive attention to oneself which stifles attempts to avoid the neurosis to which one thinks oneself predisposed. Frankl identified anticipatory anxiety, a fear of a given outcome which makes that outcome more likely. To relieve the anticipatory anxiety and treat the resulting neuroses, logotherapy offers paradoxical intention, wherein the patient intends to do the opposite of their hyper-intended goal.\n\nA person, then, who fears (i.e. experiences anticipatory anxiety over) not getting a good night's sleep may try too hard (that is, hyper-intend) to fall asleep, and this would hinder their ability to do so. A logotherapist would recommend, then, that the person go to bed and intentionally try not to fall asleep. This would relieve the anticipatory anxiety which kept the person awake in the first place, thus allowing them to fall asleep in an acceptable amount of time.\n\nViktor Frankl believed depression occurred at the psychological, physiological, and spiritual levels. At the psychological level, he believed that feelings of inadequacy stem from undertaking tasks beyond our abilities. At the physiological level, he recognized a “vital low”, which he defined as a “diminishment of physical energy”. Finally, Frankl believed that at the spiritual level, the depressed man faces tension between who he actually is in relation to what he should be. Frankl refers to this as the gaping abyss. Finally Frankl suggests that if goals seem unreachable, an individual loses a sense of future and thus meaning resulting in depression. Thus logotherapy aims “to change the patient’s attitude toward their disease as well as toward their life as a task”.\n\nFrankl believed that those suffering from obsessive-compulsive disorder lack the sense of completion that most other individuals possess. Instead of fighting the tendencies to repeat thoughts or actions, or focusing on changing the individual symptoms of the disease, the therapist should focus on “transform[ing] the neurotic’s attitude toward their neurosis”. Therefore, it is important to recognize that the patient is “not responsible for his obsessional ideas”, but that “he is certainly responsible for his attitude toward these ideas”. Frankl suggested that it is important for the patient to recognize his inclinations toward perfection as fate, and therefore, must learn to accept some degrees of uncertainty. Ultimately, following the premise of logotherapy, the patient must eventually ignore his obsessional thoughts and find meaning in his life despite such thoughts.\n\nThough logotherapy wasn’t intended to deal with severe disorders, Frankl believed that logotherapy could benefit even those suffering from schizophrenia. He recognized the roots of schizophrenia in physiological dysfunction. In this dysfunction, the person with schizophrenia “experiences himself as an object” rather than as a subject. Frankl suggested that a person with schizophrenia could be helped by logotherapy by first being taught to ignore voices and to end persistent self-observation. Then, during this same period, the person with schizophrenia must be led toward meaningful activity, as “even for the schizophrenic there remains that residue of freedom toward fate and toward the disease which man always possesses, no matter how ill he may be, in all situations and at every moment of life, to the very last”.\n\nIn 1977, Terry Zuehlke and John Watkins conducted a study analyzing the effectiveness of logotherapy in treating terminally ill patients. The study’s design used 20 male Veterans Administration volunteers who were randomly assigned to one of two possible treatments – (1) group that received 8-45 minute sessions over a 2 week period and (2) group used as control that received delayed treatment. Each group was tested on 5 scales – the MMPI K Scale, MMPI L Scale, Death Anxiety Scale, Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, and the Purpose of Life Test. The results showed an overall significant difference between the control and treatment groups. While the univariate analyses showed that there were significant group differences in 3/5 of the dependent measures. These results confirm the idea that terminally ill patients can benefit from logotherapy in coping with death.\n\nIn 1969 Rollo May argued that logotherapy is, in essence, authoritarian. He suggested that Frankl’s therapy presents a plain solution to all of life’s problems, an assertion that would seem to undermine the complexity of human life itself. May contended that if a patient could not find his own meaning, Frankl would provide a goal for his patient. In effect, this would negate the patient’s personal responsibility, thus “diminish[ing] the patient as a person”. Frankl explicitly replied to May’s arguments through a written dialogue, sparked by Rabbi Reuven Bulka’s article “Is Logotherapy Authoritarian?”. Frankl responded that he combined the prescription of medication, if necessary, with logotherapy, to deal with the person's psychological and emotional reaction to the illness, and highlighted areas of freedom and responsibility, where the person is free to search and to find meaning.\n\nCritical views of the life of logotherapy's founder and his work assume that Frankl's religious background and experience of suffering guided his conception of meaning within the boundaries of the person and therefore that logotherapy is founded on Viktor Frankl's worldview.\n\nFrankl openly spoke and wrote on religion and psychiatry, throughout his life, and specifically in his last book, \"Man’s Search for Ultimate Meaning\" (1997). He asserted that every person has a spiritual unconscious, independently of religious views or beliefs, yet Frankl's conception of the spiritual unconscious does not necessarily entail religiosity. In Frankl's words: “It is true, Logotherapy, deals with the Logos; it deals with Meaning. Specifically, I see Logotherapy in helping others to see meaning in life. But we cannot “give” meaning to the life of others. And if this is true of meaning per se, how much does it hold for Ultimate Meaning?” The American Psychiatric Association awarded Viktor Frankl the 1985 Oskar Pfister Award (for important contributions to religion and psychiatry).\n\nOn Frankl's doctrine that one must instill meaning in the events in ones life, that work and suffering to find meaning, will ultimately lead to fulfillment and happiness. In 1982 the highly cited scholar and holocaust analyst Lawrence L. Langer, who while also critical of Frankl's distortions on the true experience of those at Auschwitz, and Frankl's amoral focus on \"meaning\" that could just as equally be applied to Nazis \"finding meaning in making the world free from Jews\", Langer would go on to write: \"If this [logotherapy] doctrine had been more succinctly worded, the Nazis might have substituted it for the cruel mockery of Arbeit Macht Frei [the sign chosen to be placed over the entry to Auschwitz]\". \n\nA biographer of Frankl would later remark on the penetrating insight of Langer's reading of Frankl's holocaust testimony, with Langer's criticism published in 1982 before ther biographer's research, the former had thus drawn the controversial parallels, or accommodations in ideology without the knowledge that Victor Frankl was an advocate/\"embraced\" the key ideas of the Nazi psychotherapy movement (\"will and responsibility\") as a form of therapy in the late 1930s. When at that time Frankl would submit a paper and contributed to the Göring institute in Vienna 1937 and again in early 1938 connecting the logotherapy focus on \"world-view\" to the \"work of some of the leading Nazi psychotherapists\", both at a time before Austria was annexed by Nazi Germany in 1938.\n\nThe origins of logotherapy, as described by Frankl, were therefore a major issue of continuity that Biographer Pytell argues were potentially problematic for Frankl because he had laid out the main elements of logotherapy while working for/contributing to the Nazi-affiliated Göring Institute. Principally Frankl's 1937 paper, that was published by the institute. This association, as a source of controversy, that logotherapy was palatable to National Socialism is the reason Pytell suggests, Frankl took two different stances on how the concentration-camp experience affected the course of his psychotherapy theory. Namely, that within the original English edition of Frankl's most well known book, \"Man's Search for Meaning\", the suggestion is made and still largely held that logotherapy was itself derived from his camp experience, with the claim as it appears in the original edition, that this form of psychotherapy was \"not concocted in the philosopher's armchair nor at the analyst's couch; it took shape in the hard school of air-raid shelters and bomb craters; in concentration camps and prisoner of war camps.\" Frankl's statements however to this effect would be deleted from later editions, though in the 1963 edition, a similar statement again appeared on the back of the book jacket of \"Man's Search for Meaning\". Frankl over the years would switch between the claim that logotherapy took shape in the camps to the claim that the camps merely justified his already preconceived theories, as the definitive word on the matter, in 1977 Frankl himself began to clarify the controversy stating \"People think I came out of Auschwitz with a brand-new psychotherapy. This is not the case.\"\n\nSince the 1990s, logotherapy has evolved into meaning therapy. Wong attempted to translate logotherapy into psychological mechanisms in order to make it more relevant to the wider psychology community. This extension not only integrates meaning therapy with cognitive behavioral therapy and positive psychotherapy, but also connects meaning therapy with the positive psychology research on meaning. Another new development is the application of logotherapy to palliative care. These recent developments introduce Viktor Frankl's logotherapy to a new generation and extend its impact to new areas of research.\n\nA number of logotherapeutic institutes have opened up in various countries around the world and include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10299027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10299027", "title": "Low-carbon emission", "text": "Low-carbon emission\n\nThe main components of automobile exhaust are carbon dioxide (CO) and water vapor (HO). Carbon dioxide is the most important anthropogenic greenhouse gas (GHG) and the most significant Greenhouse Gas emitted in the U.S. (with 82-84% of all U.S. emissions). Increases in carbon dioxide concentration are due primarily to fossil fuel use and land-use change.\n\nThe CO emission standards can be referred to the fuel or to the vehicle :\n\n\nCO mass emission in vehicles is measured in g/km (g/mi * 0.621371192 = g/km).\n\nTransportation accounts for forty percent of California's annual greenhouse gas emissions, and California relies on petroleum-based fuels for 96 percent of its transportation needs.\n\nThe Californian Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger issued an Executive Order in January 2007 for California adopt a Low-Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS). The LCFS requires oil refineries to ensure that the mix of fuel they sell in the California Market meets, on average, a declining target for greenhouse gas emissions measured in CO-equivalent grams per unit of fuel energy sold. By 2020, the LCFS will produce a 10 % reduction in carbon intensity from production and use of transport fuels in California.\n\n"}
{"id": "34534637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34534637", "title": "MODELISAR", "text": "MODELISAR\n\nMODELISAR was an ITEA 2 (Information Technology for European Advancement) European project aiming to improve the design of systems and of embedded software in vehicles. The MODELISAR goals were to:\n\nThe MODELISAR project started in 2008 , ended Dec 2011 to define the Functional Mock-up Interface specifications, deliver technology studies, prove the FMI concepts through Use Cases elaborated by the consortium partners and enable tool vendors to build advanced prototypes or in some cases even products.\nMODELISAR has been awarded during ITEA 2 & ARTEMIS co summit with a Silver award. See ITEA 2 achievement award\n\nAlthough in MODELISAR the focus was driven by automotive Use Cases, the FMI specifications could be independently defined. Therefore the FMI can now address others industrial domains such as Energy, Aerospace, Rail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22064549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22064549", "title": "Management due diligence", "text": "Management due diligence\n\nManagement due diligence is the process of appraising a company's senior management—evaluating each individual's effectiveness in contributing to the organization's strategic objectives.\n\nAssessing company management is crucial when closing business deals. It can mean the difference between long-term success or sudden failure. It also helps the organisation understand how the teams perform their roles in context with the company's future business plan. This helps clarify the structure of the organisation's work-force.\nThe management due diligence process can be identified as an informative tool for external stakeholders, and can also be referred to as Management Assessment as it addresses the team’s dynamics and highlight the risks.\n\nManagement assessment usually focuses on assessing the leadership skills and characteristics of the organisation's managers—such as the ability to adjust to a changing environment and communicate effectively with other individuals. These characteristics are key points in successful leaders.\n\nA leader must consider all factors concerning a strategic decision, such as possible effects on employees and customers. Engaging employees and customers in the decision process helps build better relationships.\n\nCompanies typically apply the due diligence process when they are about to engage in a major transaction with another company—such as selling or purchasing products or services, or buying (merging with or acquiring) the other company. Some transactions require a due diligence report that includes managements. Transactions that might require managerial assessments include:\n\nOrganizations considering a merger, acquisition or alliance should perform due diligence. This due diligence should investigate the other party's management team. Many mergers and acquisitions fail because of human resources and management-related issues, such as cultural clashes. These incidents occur because of different cultural values or different individual beliefs. To avoid such incidents, and cut costs on the long run, management teams must be assessed thoroughly.\n\nBefore organizations signs a partnership contract, they must investigate the other organization’s matters and affiliations, organizational structures, and behaviors. A management due diligence process achieves this.\n\nWhen forming a relationship with another organizations, management due diligence helps an organization introduce management structure the behavior of individuals.\n\nNot only buyers carry out management due diligence, but also sellers of an organization. Usually, the process of selling an organization or adopting any external growth strategies requires the sharing of warranties. These warranties require private information from the organization—possibly including information and activities that they must shield from the view of third parties. In this case, the seller should carry out due diligence to ensure secure data.\n\nManagement due diligence ensures sustainable profit and growth for organisations, as it identifies the human capital components. It ensures that highly skilled people are assigned the correct jobs and responsibilities. It increases the chance of a good return on investment by reducing risk.\n\nManagement due diligence identifies strengths and weaknesses of individuals in the management team and assesses their contributions to the organisation. It assesses management team members' abilities to reach common goals.\n\nIt identifies undiscovered dangers that eventually affect productivity. These might include unacknowledged motives or personal conflicts between individuals in management. It helps organizations efficiently appraise candidates for a management team position.\n\nManagement due diligence gives an organization a basis for expectations for team and individual performance. Accordingly, the organization can determine whether managers need training.\n\nSince management due diligence lies in the financial analysis of a due diligence report, It shares the same process as creating a due diligence report with few variations. \n\nPreparation is key to an effective management due diligence process. In this phase, organizations gain sufficient knowledge about other organizations. This helps them decide on communication methods between them and other entities, in addition to putting resources in place to promote a successful process. After settling those issues, the organization must:\n\n\"Form a team for the analysis process\" from skilled people with enough experience. After forming the team, the organization assigns responsibilities and settles on a process timeline. The organization may fill gaps in expertise by hiring or contracting external people.\n\n\"Involve managers\" as early as possible as they must get to know the other organization's management team. Early introductions help managers deal with later obstacles.\n\n\"Create checklists\" tailored to particular risks associated with the other organization.\n\n\"Prepare a list of data requests\" for the information an organization needs to complete the process. Such data could include the business plan's management team section, or management organizational structure.\n\n\"After negotiations, have both parties sign a confidentiality report\" to protect sensitive data from third parties. Agree on a method to store all confidential data—for example, an online data repository that both parties can view.\n\nIn this phase the organization begins analyzing gathered data. The team tries to confirm the target's representations and \"soft\" aspects of the target, such as its corporate culture. The team must make sure the other organization fits with its own after assessing their management quality. After gathering all the information, the team advises on whether their organization should continue to work with the other organization.\n\nAfter the team finishes analyzing the management team, they submit a report to the final decision makers. If the team exposes irregularities or unexpected risks, the organization can bid on contract changes. If everything passes the assessment, team members switch to integration planning.\n\nBy performing management due diligence to assess the individuals working in an organization, different aspects must be appraised. The diagram outlines the main aspects that must be evaluated. The four circles in the middle represent the basic qualities that are considered essential for an individual assessment. The bigger circle \"Role\" represents the duties of the individuals in a certain organization. These duties usually vary from one individual to another depending on the job description of that individual. The biggest circle representing the employing organization is located in a market, making it easy to get affected by various external factors. These external factors are capable of hindering the organization from achieving its strategic goals and long-term objectives, making this a challenge that has to be dealt with.\n\nFor the individual assessment to be precise and accurate, it must be done after the organization's requirements have been highlighted and responsibilities of each individual are clear. Having such knowledge helps the business organization overcome future challenges and move closer to strategic objectives.\n\nManagement due diligence needs:\nThe management team is an asset to any organisation,\n\nTo assure reliable data, both investor and individuals under assessment must be involved in the feedback process. This can be costly and time-consuming to both parties. Since due diligence can be a detective game, organizations must find individuals who can detect small issues and opportunities. Organizations sometimes bring in outside experts.\n\nThe expense of the due diligence process, and the time involved, can be softened by dividing it into two stages. \nExecutives may be so interested in a deal that they ignore identified risks and move ahead—and later suffer from management issues. \nInformation gathering can involve interviewing the management team, but the team may see them as expensive and time-consuming. People doing the analysis might not be familiar with the organization's sector, which can lead to wrong conclusions.\n"}
{"id": "205789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205789", "title": "Mandatory Swedish", "text": "Mandatory Swedish\n\nIn Finland, Swedish is a mandatory school subject for Finnish-speaking pupils in the last four years of the primary education (grades 6 to 9). This so-called \"other domestic language\" is also mandatory in high schools, vocational schools, and vocational universities. Furthermore, all university graduates must demonstrate a certain level of proficiency in Swedish (the so-called \"public servant's Swedish\"). Altogether 89% of Finnish citizens are native Finnish speakers, whereas 5.3% of the population report Swedish as their mother tongue. Currently, it is possible for Finnish citizens to report a different mother tongue for themselves at any time, and as many times as desired, by submitting a form to the Population Register Center.\n\nAccording to the Finnish constitution, both Finnish and Swedish are national languages. The employees of the national government and the bilingual municipal governments are required to be able to serve citizens in Swedish. Military service is not required in the autonomous region of Åland. The official term for both mandatory Swedish and Finnish is \"the other domestic language\". However, the requirement to study Swedish is often referred to as \"pakkoruotsi\", a somewhat charged term in Finnish meaning \"mandatory Swedish\", or \"enforced Swedish\".\n\nThe status of Swedish as a national language in Finland is defined by the Finnish constitution. There was migration of Swedish-speaking peasants to some Finnish coastal areas during the Middle Ages. During this period, when Finland was ruled by Sweden, Swedish language became part of the culture in the coastal areas. Swedish was also the language of the ruling class. The Finnish language was forbidden an official status alongside Swedish until the period of Russian rule (1809–1917), in 1860. The autonomous Åland Islands (pop. 26,000, 95% Swedish, 5% Finnish) has only one official language, Swedish, and the speaking of Finnish between employees is forbidden in some public services.\n\nIn Mainland Finland both official languages, Finnish and Swedish, are mandatory subjects for pupils in primary and secondary schools. The Swedish test of the Matriculation Examination was made voluntary in 2004, although all university graduates must demonstrate that their skills in the other official language meet the standard required of all academically educated public servants. Usually this means the completion of a so-called \"public servant's Swedish\" test. The Swedish language is also one of the main agendas of the Swedish People's Party that has been a minor partner in most Cabinets since Finland's independence, and in all Cabinets between 1972 and 2015.\n\nSupporters of Mandatory Swedish argue that it brings Finland closer to the Nordic countries, since Swedish is quite similar to, and to some extent mutually intelligible with, both Danish and Norwegian, while Finnish belongs to the unrelated Finnic language group. Supporters also say that studying Swedish makes it easier to learn other Germanic languages, such as English and German. Lastly, they argue, mandatory Swedish is necessary to ensure that Swedish-speakers can interact with governmental institutions and get service, such as health care, in their own mother tongue.\n\nThe area that today is Finland was an integral part of Sweden proper from the Middle Ages to the end of the Finnish War in 1809. Swedish migrants settled in coastal areas, and the language of administration was Swedish. This prompted many Finnish-speakers to learn Swedish in hopes of improving their social status, and some switched to Swedish altogether.\n\nAs a result of the Finnish War, Sweden ceded Finland to Russia, and the Russian tsar established the autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland. Although a Governor-General was installed by the Russians as the highest authority within the Grand Duchy, much of the political system remained the same: Finland was allowed to keep its ”laws, religion and language” from the Swedish time. The tsar wanted to avoid trouble in the new territory and also used former Swedish upper class to further modernisation in Russia; Finnish was not an option at that time as official language, as the administration did not know Finnish well enough and the language was undeveloped regarding such use.\n\nWhen Finland became autonomous there was a big interest in creating a new national identity. There was an immense interest in the Finnish language and Finnish culture in the mostly Swedish speaking upper class. At some point the Fennoman movement arose, that thought that the country should be a united nation, with only one language, and, as a reaction, the Svecoman movement, that was afraid that abandoning Swedish would lead to slavicisation or worse.\n\nHowever, during the 1860s, under Tsar Alexander II, it was decided that legal equality between Finnish and Swedish as languages of administration was to be gradually introduced. Thus since the late 19th century Finnish has been a co-official language of administration in Finland. Modernizations typical for the era in Europe were introduced, boosting the status of the Finnish-speaking majority: the special rights of the higher estates of the realm were abolished, a modern parliament based on universal suffrage was introduced 1907 and in 1917 Finland became independent.\n\nIn the current form, mandatory Swedish was implemented as a part of the modernisation of the educational system in the 1970s. Previously, a Swedish test had been compulsory on university level and in \"oppikoulu\", a secondary school that was a prerequisite to matriculation to a university, but not in the common \"kansakoulu\". The introduction of the \"peruskoulu\" (student ages 7–15), compulsory for all children, introduced a course in Swedish compulsory to all pupils, while Swedish courses and standardized tests at higher levels remained compulsory. This was motivated by the possibility that any student could become a public official and would thus be required to know Swedish.\n\nA compulsory introductory course to Swedish for all pupils in primary education was introduced in the 1960s as a part of modernization of the primary education system, where the nine-year school (\"peruskoulu, grundskola\") was made universally compulsory. Until then there had been mandatory courses only in secondary and tertiary education. Administrative services have, since the end of the 19th century, been offered in both domestic languages; therefore, theoretically employees should be proficient in both Finnish and Swedish. The reform was to some extent based on a political ambition to strengthen the ties with the Western world through Scandinavia, and to show that Finland was a part of the Nordic countries, and not an Eastern Bloc country. It also sought to improve social mobility by ensuring that a decision on language in the early school years would not become an obstacle for applicants to the civil service.\n\nIn the upper secondary general school all the students learn at least two languages besides their mother tongue, one of which is the other domestic language, except for people studying some other language as mother tongue (e.g. immigrants and those studying Sami). Finnish speakers take Swedish, and vice versa. According to Statistics Finland, practically all the students take English, either as a compulsory or an optional language. There is also a possibility to take one or more extra foreign languages. Despite Finland being a neighbour of Russia, Russian is not taught in most schools of Finland, and only 1.5% of Finns know some Russian. The hindrances are cultural and political, as there has been relatively little cultural exchange between the Finns and Russians in the 20th century, and Finland's relations with the Soviet Union were hostile from the Finnish Civil War (1918) until World War II (1939–1944).\n\nThe arrangement of \"mandatory Swedish and practically-mandatory English\" has been criticized, because it reduces the diversity of the language skills of the population. The EU target is to teach two foreign languages. As English is an overwhelmingly popular choice, it has been suggested by, for example, the Confederation of Finnish Industries that keeping Swedish compulsory directly prevents choosing other languages, such as Russian.\n\nA number of studies into opinions regarding mandatory Swedish have been made with various results. The big differences between studies exemplifies the problems in conducting a neutral and broad study without asking leading questions on the particular subject. Furthermore, some of the studies have been commissioned by organizations that have politically partisan views on the subject of mandatory Swedish.\n\nBetween 1990 and 2003 Taloustutkimus Oy conducted a series of more than ten surveys for Suomalaisuuden liitto, an organisation opposing mandatory Swedish. According to these surveys, 66–72% of Finns were \"in favour of voluntary Swedish education or against mandatory Swedish education\".\n\nSuomen Gallup's 2003 survey concluded that while a small majority supported \"compulsory second domestic language studying\", it was opposed by 42% of Finns while 25% did not want both Finnish and Swedish to be official languages of Finland. This study was commissioned by Yle, the Finnish publicly funded national broadcasting company. The question posed to those surveyed was very verbose in comparison to the Taloustutkimus surveys on the same subject. The question did not include the word \"Swedish\".\n\nIn 1992 a study by \"Valitut Palat\" (the Finnish edition of \"Reader's Digest\") concluded that 90 percent of the parents of third to fourth grade pupils \"supported a reduction of compulsory languages\" (only Finnish and Swedish are compulsory). When \"Valitut Palat\" did a new survey in 2003 it found 64% opposing mandatory Swedish, and 25% not wanting to have two official languages.\n\nAn IEA study (2000) revealed that 67% of young people studying in Finnish-speaking schools wanted to make Swedish a voluntary subject. The most politically aware youths were the most critical against Swedishness in this study.\n\nA study conducted in 1997 by Folktinget, an official consultative organisation representing Finland's Swedish-speakers, concluded that 70% of the Finnish-speaking population considered \"Swedish a vital and important part of Finnish society.\" This study also indicated that the most negative opinions about mandatory Swedish were found among those with academic degrees.\n\nA study conducted by Taloustutkimus for Yle in 2013 indicated that 63 percent of respondents were opposed to mandatory Swedish. Further, the study indicated that among the supporters of the different political parties, only the supporters of the Swedish People's Party and the Green League favoured retaining mandatory Swedish teaching. A majority of supporters in all the other parties wanted Swedish teaching to be voluntary – the supporters of the Finns Party and the Social Democrats were most heavily in favour of making Swedish voluntary (76 and 73 percent respectively).\n\nA study conducted by Åbo Akademi in 2014 indicated that 74 percent of Finnish speaking respondents agreed with the statement \"The teaching of the Swedish language should be voluntary\".\n\nIn many cases, pupils have negative expectations and experiences of learning Swedish which may foster a negative attitude towards the Swedish language and culture. This behavior is claimed to hark back to the time when Finland was a part of Sweden (see Sweden–Finland), and Swedish was the language of prestige while Finnish was looked down on by the government. Negative opinions towards studying Swedish are also grounded in the fact that mandatory Swedish is taught throughout the country, even though there are few Swedish-speakers in mainland Finland outside the coastal area by the Baltic Sea, and thus contact with Swedish-speakers is rare for most Finns. This fact can for some make the policy of bilingualism seem artificial, but the basic curriculum remains the same for the entire country.\n\nAccording to a study published in 2002 students are interested in the Swedish language, and find it an important part of education, but they perceived Swedish being compulsory lessened their motivation (this argument has been made very frequently in the public debate). The experiment of making the Swedish test voluntary in the matriculation examination (the completion of which is a \"de facto\" requirement for university enrollment) was declared successful and was made permanent. The percentage of students taking the Swedish test has since been constantly dropping and was 67% in 2009 (less than 50% of boys).\n\nThere has also been a lot of criticism of the methodology used to teach Swedish and the lack of competence in many of the teachers. This has contributed to students' lack of motivation to study Swedish, and many may not learn to speak the language beyond a very basic level. Some students argue that they will never need Swedish as its utility in the Finnish job market is limited to a few fields. Moreover, the rationale of mandatory tuition in Swedish and other subjects is to give the students more of a general knowledge base, and not train them for a specific field.\n\nIn addition to the direct costs of the tuition, some argue that mandatory Swedish effectively replaces elective courses in languages such as French, German and Russian, that these persons argue are more important than Swedish in a globalized world. University students are required not only to master their selected field, but also to study at least two languages beside their mother tongue, one of which is obligatorily Swedish for Finnish-speakers. As study material is often in English, this effectively removes the free choice; the two \"voluntarily chosen\" languages must be Swedish and English. Despite being a neighbour of Russia, it is in practice possible to study Russian only in some schools (due to low interest or it not being offered); only 1.5% of the Finns have a good knowledge of Russian. Also very few Finns speak Estonian (which is not taught in most schools), a language of the same Finnic language group as Finnish, and national language of Finland's southern neighbour Estonia, although Finnish is popular in Estonia.\n\nSentiments toward mandatory Swedish vary. Many prominent politicians (both Finnish- and Swedish-speaking) wholeheartedly support mandatory Swedish in schools, while others oppose it. There have been numerous petitions and other similar campaigns arranged by some small but dedicated organizations to pressure the lawmakers to abolish mandatory Swedish, but to date, they have had no significant impact on the established policy. Thus, while the ongoing debate is often heated and passionate, the support for mandatory Swedish tuition remains strong enough among politicians for the government not to consider a change of policy.\n\nMandatory Swedish is supported by most political parties in Finland, like the National Coalition Party, the Centre Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance. The Finns Party opposes mandatory Swedish, and so does the youth wing of the National Coalition Party.\n\nIn 2013 the Confederation of Finnish Industries came out in favour of making Swedish teaching voluntary. They referred to a study which indicated that in the future Swedish will be only the tenth most important language to Finnish companies, when they are considering the language skills of their potential employees. According to Hufvudstadsbladet, the Confederation has subsequently changed their stance and no longer favours making Swedish voluntary, while maintaining the need for learning other languages.\n\nIn the 2000s the government dropped the requirement to take Swedish (or Finnish in the case of the Swedish-speaking minority) as part of the high school matriculation examination.\n\nIn 2014 a citizens' initiative demanding an end to mandatory Swedish teaching on all levels of education was brought to the Finnish Parliament. In 2015 the MPs voted, 134 to 48, to keep mandatory Swedish. In another vote the MPs voted, 93 to 89, to demand that the government should examine, whether a regional experimentation, where another language would be taught instead of Swedish, is possible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "922778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=922778", "title": "Material monism", "text": "Material monism\n\nMaterial monism is a Presocratic belief which provides an explanation of the physical world by saying that all of the world's objects are composed of a single element. Among the material monists were the three Milesian philosophers: Thales, who believed that everything was composed of water; Anaximander, who believed it was \"apeiron\"; and Anaximenes, who believed it was air. For the first and last of these thinkers, however, that element was infused by mind, so it would be a mistake to call them material monists.\n\nAlthough their theories were primitive, these philosophers were the first to give an explanation of the physical world without referencing the supernatural; this opened the way for much of modern science (and philosophy), which has the same goal of explaining the world without dependence on the supernatural.\n\n"}
{"id": "1018814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1018814", "title": "Meta", "text": "Meta\n\nMeta (from the Greek \"meta-\" μετά- meaning \"after\" or \"beyond\") is a prefix used in English to indicate a concept which is an abstraction behind another concept, used to complete or add to the latter.\n\nIn Greek, the prefix \"meta-\" is generally less esoteric than in English; Greek \"meta-\" is equivalent to the Latin words \"post-\" or \"ad-\". The use of the prefix in this sense occurs occasionally in scientific English terms derived from Greek. For example: the term \"Metatheria\" (the name for the clade of marsupial mammals) uses the prefix \"meta-\" in the sense the \"Metatheria\" occur on the tree of life adjacent to the \"Theria\" (the placental mammals).\n\nIn epistemology, and often in common use, the prefix \"meta-\" is used to mean \"about (its own category)\". For example, metadata are data about data (who has produced them, when, what format the data are in and so on). In a database, metadata are also data about data stored in a data dictionary and describe information (data) about database tables such as the table name, table owner, details about columns, – essentially describing the table. Also, metamemory in psychology means an individual's knowledge about whether or not they would remember something if they concentrated on recalling it. The modern sense of \"an X about X\" has given rise to concepts like \"meta-cognition\" (i.e. cognition about cognition), \"meta-emotion\" (i.e. emotion about emotion), \"meta-discussion\" (i.e. discussion about discussion), \"meta-joke\" (i.e. joke about jokes), and \"metaprogramming\" (i.e. writing programs that manipulate programs).\n\nIn a rule-based system, a metarule is a rule governing the application of other rules.\n\nAny subject can be said to have a \"metatheory\", a theoretical consideration of its properties, such as its foundations, methods, form and utility, on a higher level of abstraction. In linguistics, a grammar is considered as being expressed in a metalanguage, language operating on a higher level to describe properties of the plain language (and not itself).\n\nThe prefix comes from the Greek preposition and prefix \"meta-\" (μετά-), from μετά, which meant \"after\", \"beside\", \"with\", \"among\" (with respect to the preposition, some of these meanings were distinguished by case marking). Other meanings include \"beyond\", \"adjacent\" and \"self\", and it is also used in the form μητα- as a prefix in Greek, with variants μετ- before vowels and μεθ- \"meth-\" before aspirated vowels.\n\nThe earliest form of the word \"meta\" is the Mycenaean Greek \"me-ta\", written in Linear B syllabic script. The Greek preposition is cognate with the Old English preposition \"mid\" \"with\", still found as a prefix in \"midwife\". Its use in English is the result of back-formation from the word \"metaphysics\". In origin \"Metaphysics\" was just the title of one of the principal works of Aristotle; it was so named (by Andronicus of Rhodes) because in the customary ordering of the works of Aristotle it was the book following \"Physics\"; it thus meant nothing more than \"[the book that comes] after [the book entitled] \"Physics\"\". However, even Latin writers misinterpreted this as entailing metaphysics constituted \"the science of what is beyond the physical\". Nonetheless, Aristotle's \"Metaphysics\" enunciates considerations of natures above physical realities, which one can examine through this particular part of philosophy, e.g., the existence of God. The use of the prefix was later extended to other contexts based on the understanding of metaphysics to mean \"the science of what is beyond the physical\".\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" cites uses of the meta- prefix as \"beyond, about\" (such as meta-economics and meta-philosophy) going back to 1917. However, these formations are parallel to the original \"metaphysics\" and \"metaphysical\", that is, as a prefix to general nouns (fields of study) or adjectives. Going by the \"OED\" citations, it began being used with specific nouns in connection with mathematical logic sometime before 1929. (In 1920 David Hilbert proposed a research project in what was called \"metamathematics.\")\n\nA notable early citation is Quine's 1937 use of the word \"metatheorem\", where meta- has the modern meaning of \"an X about X\". (Note earlier uses of \"meta-economics\" and even \"metaphysics\" do not have this doubled conceptual structure – they are about or beyond X but they do not themselves constitute an X).\n\nDouglas Hofstadter, in his 1979 book \"Gödel, Escher, Bach\" (and in the sequel, \"Metamagical Themas\"), popularized this meaning of the term. The book, which deals with self-reference and strange loops, and touches on Quine and his work, was influential in many computer-related subcultures and may be responsible for the popularity of the prefix, for its use as a solo term, and for the many recent coinages which use it. Hofstadter uses meta as a stand-alone word, as an adjective and as a directional preposition (\"going meta,\" a term he coins for the old rhetorical trick of taking a debate or analysis to another level of abstraction, as when somebody says \"This debate isn't going anywhere\"). This book may also be responsible for the association of \"meta\" with strange loops, as opposed to just abstraction. The sentence \"This sentence contains thirty-six letters,\" and the sentence which embeds it, are examples of \"metasentences\" referencing themselves in this way.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1561467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561467", "title": "Metric (mathematics)", "text": "Metric (mathematics)\n\nIn mathematics, a metric or distance function is a function that defines a distance between each pair of elements of a set. A set with a metric is called a metric space. A metric induces a topology on a set, but not all topologies can be generated by a metric. A topological space whose topology can be described by a metric is called metrizable.\n\nAn important source of metrics in differential geometry are metric tensors, bilinear forms that may be defined from the tangent vectors of a differentiable manifold onto a scalar. A metric tensor allows distances along curves to be determined through integration, and thus determines a metric. However, not every metric comes from a metric tensor in this way.\n\nA metric on a set is a function (called the \"distance function\" or simply distance)\nwhere formula_2 is the set of non-negative real numbers and for all formula_3, the following conditions are satisfied:\n\nConditions 1 and 2 together define a \"positive-definite function\". \nThe first condition is implied by the others.\n\nA metric is called an ultrametric if it satisfies the following stronger version of the \"triangle inequality\" where points can never fall 'between' other points:\nfor all formula_3\n\nA metric on is called intrinsic if any two points and in can be joined by a curve with length arbitrarily close to .\n\nFor sets on which an addition + : is defined,\nfor all , , and in .\n\nThese conditions express intuitive notions about the concept of distance. For example, that the distance between distinct points is positive and the distance from \"x\" to \"y\" is the same as the distance from \"y\" to \"x\". The triangle inequality means that the distance from \"x\" to \"z\" via \"y\" is at least as great as from \"x\" to \"z\" directly. Euclid in his work stated that the shortest distance between two points is a line; that was the triangle inequality for his geometry.\n\nIf a modification of the triangle inequality\nis used in the definition then property 1 follows straight from property 4*. Properties 2 and 4* give property 3 which in turn gives property 4.\n\n\nFor a given set \"X\", two metrics \"d\" and \"d\" are called topologically equivalent (uniformly equivalent) if the identity mapping\nis a homeomorphism (uniform isomorphism).\n\nFor example, if formula_11 is a metric, then formula_12 and formula_13 are metrics equivalent to formula_14\n\nSee also notions of metric space equivalence.\n\nNorms on vector spaces are equivalent to certain metrics, namely homogeneous, translation-invariant ones. In other words, every norm determines a metric, and some metrics determine a norm.\n\nGiven a normed vector space formula_15 we can define a metric on \"X\" by\nThe metric \"d\" is said to be induced by the norm formula_17.\n\nConversely if a metric \"d\" on a vector space \"X\" satisfies the properties\nthen we can define a norm on \"X\" by\n\nSimilarly, a seminorm induces a pseudometric (see below), and a homogeneous, translation invariant pseudometric induces a seminorm.\n\nWe can generalize the notion of a metric from a distance between two elements to a distance between two nonempty finite multisets of elements. A multiset is a generalization of the notion of a set such that an element can occur more than once. Define formula_21 if\nformula_22 is the multiset consisting of the elements of the multisets formula_23 and formula_24, that is, if formula_25 occurs once in formula_23 and once in formula_24 then it occurs twice in formula_22. \nA distance function\nformula_11 on the set of nonempty finite multisets is a metric if\nNote that the familiar metric between two elements results if the multiset formula_23 has two elements in 1 and 2 and the multisets formula_37 have one element each in 3. For instance if formula_23 consists of two occurrences of formula_25, then formula_30 according to 1.\n\nA simple example is the set of all nonempty finite multisets formula_23 of integers with formula_42. More complex examples are information distance in multisets; and normalized compression distance (NCD) in multisets.\n\nThere are numerous ways of relaxing the axioms of metrics, giving rise to various notions of generalized metric spaces. These generalizations can also be combined. The terminology used to describe them is not completely standardized. Most notably, in functional analysis pseudometrics often come from seminorms on vector spaces, and so it is natural to call them \"semimetrics\". This conflicts with the use of the term in topology.\n\nSome authors allow the distance function \"d\" to attain the value ∞, i.e. distances are non-negative numbers on the extended real number line. \nSuch a function is called an \"extended metric\" or \"∞-metric\". \nEvery extended metric can be transformed to a finite metric such that the metric spaces are equivalent as far as notions of topology (such as continuity or convergence) are concerned. This can be done using a subadditive monotonically increasing bounded function which is zero at zero, e.g. \"d\"′(\"x\", \"y\") = \"d\"(\"x\", \"y\") / (1 + \"d\"(\"x\", \"y\")) or \"d\"′′(\"x\", \"y\") = min(1, \"d\"(\"x\", \"y\")).\n\nThe requirement that the metric take values in <nowiki>[0,∞)</nowiki> can even be relaxed to consider metrics with values in other directed sets. The reformulation of the axioms in this case leads to the construction of uniform spaces: topological spaces with an abstract structure enabling one to compare the local topologies of different points.\n\nA pseudometric on \"X\" is a function \"d\" : \"X\" × \"X\" → R which satisfies the axioms for a metric, except that instead of the second (identity of indiscernibles) only \"d\"(\"x\",\"x\")=0 for all \"x\" is required. In other words, the axioms for a pseudometric are:\n\n\n\nIn some contexts, pseudometrics are referred to as \"semimetrics\" because of their relation to seminorms.\n\nOccasionally, a quasimetric is defined as a function that satisfies all axioms for a metric with the possible exception of symmetry:. The name of this generalisation is not entirely standardized.\n\n\nQuasimetrics are common in real life. For example, given a set \"X\" of mountain villages, the typical walking times between elements of \"X\" form a quasimetric because travel up hill takes longer than travel down hill. Another example is a taxicab geometry topology having one-way streets, where a path from point \"A\" to point \"B\" comprises a different set of streets than a path from \"B\" to \"A\". \n\nA quasimetric on the reals can be defined by setting\nThe topological space underlying this quasimetric space is the Sorgenfrey line. This space describes the process of filing down a metal stick: it is easy to reduce its size, but it is difficult or impossible to grow it.\n\nIf \"d\" is a quasimetric on \"X\", a metric \"d<nowiki>'</nowiki>\" on \"X\" can be formed by taking\n\nIn a \"metametric\", all the axioms of a metric are satisfied except that the distance between identical points is not necessarily zero. In other words, the axioms for a metametric are:\n\n\nMetametrics appear in the study of Gromov hyperbolic metric spaces and their boundaries. The \"visual metametric\" on such a space satisfies \"d\"(\"x\", \"x\") = 0 for points \"x\" on the boundary, but otherwise \"d\"(\"x\", \"x\") is approximately the distance from \"x\" to the boundary. Metametrics were first defined by Jussi Väisälä.\n\nA semimetric on \"X\" is a function \"d\" : \"X\" × \"X\" → R that satisfies the first three axioms, but not necessarily the triangle inequality:\n\n\nSome authors work with a weaker form of the triangle inequality, such as:\nThe ρ-inframetric inequality implies the ρ-relaxed triangle inequality (assuming the first axiom), and the ρ-relaxed triangle inequality implies the 2ρ-inframetric inequality. Semimetrics satisfying these equivalent conditions have sometimes been referred to as \"quasimetrics\", \"nearmetrics\" or inframetrics.\n\nThe ρ-inframetric inequalities were introduced to model round-trip delay times in the internet. The triangle inequality implies the 2-inframetric inequality, and the ultrametric inequality is exactly the 1-inframetric inequality.\n\nRelaxing the last three axioms leads to the notion of a premetric, i.e. a function satisfying the following conditions:\n\n\nThis is not a standard term. Sometimes it is used to refer to other generalizations of metrics such as pseudosemimetrics or pseudometrics; in translations of Russian books it sometimes appears as \"prametric\".\n\nAny premetric gives rise to a topology as follows. For a positive real \"r\", the \"r\"-ball centered at a point \"p\" is defined as\nA set is called \"open\" if for any point \"p\" in the set there is an \"r\"-ball centered at \"p\" which is contained in the set. Every premetric space is a topological space, and in fact a sequential space.\nIn general, the \"r\"-balls themselves need not be open sets with respect to this topology. \nAs for metrics, the distance between two sets \"A\" and \"B\", is defined as\nThis defines a premetric on the power set of a premetric space. If we start with a (pseudosemi-)metric space, we get a pseudosemimetric, i.e. a symmetric premetric.\nAny premetric gives rise to a preclosure operator \"cl\" as follows:\n\nThe prefixes \"pseudo-\", \"quasi-\" and \"semi-\" can also be combined, e.g., a pseudoquasimetric (sometimes called hemimetric) relaxes both the indiscernibility axiom and the symmetry axiom and is simply a premetric satisfying the triangle inequality. For pseudoquasimetric spaces the open \"r\"-balls form a basis of open sets. A very basic example of a pseudoquasimetric space is the set {0,1} with the premetric given by \"d\"(0,1) = 1 and \"d\"(1,0) = 0. The associated topological space is the Sierpiński space.\n\nSets equipped with an extended pseudoquasimetric were studied by William Lawvere as \"generalized metric spaces\". From a categorical point of view, the extended pseudometric spaces and the extended pseudoquasimetric spaces, along with their corresponding nonexpansive maps, are the best behaved of the metric space categories. One can take arbitrary products and coproducts and form quotient objects within the given category. If one drops \"extended\", one can only take finite products and coproducts. If one drops \"pseudo\", one cannot take quotients. Approach spaces are a generalization of metric spaces that maintains these good categorical properties.\n\nIn differential geometry, one considers a metric tensor, which can be thought of as an \"infinitesimal\" quadratic metric function. This is defined as a nondegenerate symmetric bilinear form on the tangent space of a manifold with an appropriate differentiability requirement. While these are not metric functions as defined in this article, they induce what is called a pseudo-semimetric function by integration of its square root along a path through the manifold. If one imposes the positive-definiteness requirement of an inner product on the metric tensor, this restricts to the case of a Riemannian manifold, and the path integration yields a metric.\n\nIn general relativity the related concept is a metric tensor (general relativity) which expresses the structure of a pseudo-Riemannian manifold. Though the term \"metric\" is used in cosmology, the fundamental idea is different because there are non-zero null vectors in the tangent space of these manifolds. This generalized view of \"metrics\", in which zero distance does \"not\" imply identity, has crept into some mathematical writing too:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19637", "title": "Molecular nanotechnology", "text": "Molecular nanotechnology\n\nMolecular nanotechnology (MNT) is a technology based on the ability to build structures to complex, atomic specifications by means of mechanosynthesis. This is distinct from nanoscale materials. Based on Richard Feynman's vision of miniature factories using nanomachines to build complex products (including additional nanomachines), this advanced form of nanotechnology (or \"molecular manufacturing\") would make use of positionally-controlled mechanosynthesis guided by molecular machine systems. MNT would involve combining physical principles demonstrated by biophysics, chemistry, other nanotechnologies, and the molecular machinery of life with the systems engineering principles found in modern macroscale factories.\n\nWhile conventional chemistry uses inexact processes obtaining inexact results, and biology exploits inexact processes to obtain definitive results, molecular nanotechnology would employ original definitive processes to obtain definitive results. The desire in molecular nanotechnology would be to balance molecular reactions in positionally-controlled locations and orientations to obtain desired chemical reactions, and then to build systems by further assembling the products of these reactions.\n\nA roadmap for the development of MNT is an objective of a broadly based technology project led by Battelle (the manager of several U.S. National Laboratories) and the Foresight Institute. The roadmap was originally scheduled for completion by late 2006, but was released in January 2008. The Nanofactory Collaboration is a more focused ongoing effort involving 23 researchers from 10 organizations and 4 countries that is developing a practical research agenda specifically aimed at positionally-controlled diamond mechanosynthesis and diamondoid nanofactory development. In August 2005, a task force consisting of 50+ international experts from various fields was organized by the Center for Responsible Nanotechnology to study the societal implications of molecular nanotechnology.\n\nOne proposed application of MNT is so-called smart materials. This term refers to any sort of material designed and engineered at the nanometer scale for a specific task. It encompasses a wide variety of possible commercial applications. One example would be materials designed to respond differently to various molecules; such a capability could lead, for example, to artificial drugs which would recognize and render inert specific viruses. Another is the idea of self-healing structures, which would repair small tears in a surface naturally in the same way as self-sealing tires or human skin.\n\nA MNT nanosensor would resemble a smart material, involving a small component within a larger machine that would react to its environment and change in some fundamental, intentional way. A very simple example: a photosensor might passively measure the incident light and discharge its absorbed energy as electricity when the light passes above or below a specified threshold, sending a signal to a larger machine. Such a sensor would supposedly cost less and use less power than a conventional sensor, and yet function usefully in all the same applications — for example, turning on parking lot lights when it gets dark.\n\nWhile smart materials and nanosensors both exemplify useful applications of MNT, they pale in comparison with the complexity of the technology most popularly associated with the term: the replicating nanorobot.\n\nMNT nanofacturing is popularly linked with the idea of swarms of coordinated nanoscale robots working together, a popularization of an early proposal by K. Eric Drexler in his 1986 discussions of MNT, but superseded in 1992. In this early proposal, sufficiently capable nanorobots would construct more nanorobots in an artificial environment containing special molecular building blocks.\n\nCritics have doubted both the feasibility of self-replicating nanorobots and the feasibility of control if self-replicating nanorobots could be achieved: they cite the possibility of mutations removing any control and favoring reproduction of mutant pathogenic variations. Advocates address the first doubt by pointing out that the first macroscale autonomous machine replicator, made of Lego blocks, was built and operated experimentally in 2002. While there are sensory advantages present at the macroscale compared to the limited sensorium available at the nanoscale, proposals for positionally controlled nanoscale mechanosynthetic fabrication systems employ dead reckoning of tooltips combined with reliable reaction sequence design to ensure reliable results, hence a limited sensorium is no handicap; similar considerations apply to the positional assembly of small nanoparts. Advocates address the second doubt by arguing that bacteria are (of necessity) evolved to evolve, while nanorobot mutation could be actively prevented by common error-correcting techniques. Similar ideas are advocated in the Foresight Guidelines on Molecular Nanotechnology, and a map of the 137-dimensional replicator design space recently published by Freitas and Merkle provides numerous proposed methods by which replicators could, in principle, be safely controlled by good design.\n\nHowever, the concept of suppressing mutation raises the question: How can design evolution occur at the nanoscale without a process of random mutation and deterministic selection? Critics argue that MNT advocates have not provided a substitute for such a process of evolution in this nanoscale arena where conventional sensory-based selection processes are lacking. The limits of the sensorium available at the nanoscale could make it difficult or impossible to winnow successes from failures. Advocates argue that design evolution should occur deterministically and strictly under human control, using the conventional engineering paradigm of modeling, design, prototyping, testing, analysis, and redesign.\n\nIn any event, since 1992 technical proposals for MNT do not include self-replicating nanorobots, and recent ethical guidelines put forth by MNT advocates prohibit unconstrained self-replication.\n\nOne of the most important applications of MNT would be medical nanorobotics or nanomedicine, an area pioneered by Robert Freitas in numerous books and papers. The ability to design, build, and deploy large numbers of medical nanorobots would, at a minimum, make possible the rapid elimination of disease and the reliable and relatively painless recovery from physical trauma. Medical nanorobots might also make possible the convenient correction of genetic defects, and help to ensure a greatly expanded lifespan. More controversially, medical nanorobots might be used to augment natural human capabilities. One study has reported on the conditions like tumors, arteriosclerosis, blood clots leading to stroke, accumulation of scar tissue and localized pockets of infection can be possibly be addressed by employing medical nanorobots.\n\nAnother proposed application of molecular nanotechnology is \"utility fog\" — in which a cloud of networked microscopic robots (simpler than assemblers) would change its shape and properties to form macroscopic objects and tools in accordance with software commands. Rather than modify the current practices of consuming material goods in different forms, utility fog would simply replace many physical objects.\n\nYet another proposed application of MNT would be phased-array optics (PAO). However, this appears to be a problem addressable by ordinary nanoscale technology. PAO would use the principle of phased-array millimeter technology but at optical wavelengths. This would permit the duplication of any sort of optical effect but virtually. Users could request holograms, sunrises and sunsets, or floating lasers as the mood strikes. PAO systems were described in BC Crandall's \"Nanotechnology: Molecular Speculations on Global Abundance\" in the Brian Wowk article \"Phased-Array Optics.\"\n\nMolecular manufacturing is a potential future subfield of nanotechnology that would make it possible to build complex structures at atomic precision. Molecular manufacturing requires significant advances in nanotechnology, but once achieved could produce highly advanced products at low costs and in large quantities in nanofactories weighing a kilogram or more. When nanofactories gain the ability to produce other nanofactories production may only be limited by relatively abundant factors such as input materials, energy and software.\n\nThe products of molecular manufacturing could range from cheaper, mass-produced versions of known high-tech products to novel products with added capabilities in many areas of application. Some applications that have been suggested are advanced smart materials, nanosensors, medical nanorobots and space travel. Additionally, molecular manufacturing could be used to cheaply produce highly advanced, durable weapons, which is an area of special concern regarding the impact of nanotechnology. Being equipped with compact computers and motors these could be increasingly autonomous and have a large range of capabilities.\n\nAccording to Chris Phoenix and Mike Treder from the Center for Responsible Nanotechnology as well as Anders Sandberg from the Future of Humanity Institute molecular manufacturing is the application of nanotechnology that poses the most significant global catastrophic risk. Several nanotechnology researchers state that the bulk of risk from nanotechnology comes from the potential to lead to war, arms races and destructive global government. Several reasons have been suggested why the availability of nanotech weaponry may with significant likelihood lead to unstable arms races (compared to e.g. nuclear arms races): (1) A large number of players may be tempted to enter the race since the threshold for doing so is low; (2) the ability to make weapons with molecular manufacturing will be cheap and easy to hide; (3) therefore lack of insight into the other parties' capabilities can tempt players to arm out of caution or to launch preemptive strikes; (4) molecular manufacturing may reduce dependency on international trade, a potential peace-promoting factor; (5) wars of aggression may pose a smaller economic threat to the aggressor since manufacturing is cheap and humans may not be needed on the battlefield.\n\nSince self-regulation by all state and non-state actors seems hard to achieve, measures to mitigate war-related risks have mainly been proposed in the area of international cooperation. International infrastructure may be expanded giving more sovereignty to the international level. This could help coordinate efforts for arms control. International institutions dedicated specifically to nanotechnology (perhaps analogously to the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA) or general arms control may also be designed. One may also jointly make differential technological progress on defensive technologies, a policy that players should usually favour. The Center for Responsible Nanotechnology also suggest some technical restrictions. Improved transparency regarding technological capabilities may be another important facilitator for arms-control.\n\nA grey goo is another catastrophic scenario, which was proposed by Eric Drexler in his 1986 book \"Engines of Creation\", has been analyzed by Freitas in \"Some Limits to Global Ecophagy by Biovorous Nanoreplicators, with Public Policy Recommendations\" and has been a theme in mainstream media and fiction. This scenario involves tiny self-replicating robots that consume the entire biosphere using it as a source of energy and building blocks. Nanotech experts including Drexler now discredit the scenario. According to Chris Phoenix a \"So-called grey goo could only be the product of a deliberate and difficult engineering process, not an accident\". With the advent of nano-biotech, a different scenario called green goo has been forwarded. Here, the malignant substance is not nanobots but rather self-replicating biological organisms engineered through nanotechnology.\n\nNanotechnology (or molecular nanotechnology to refer more specifically to the goals discussed here) will let us continue the historical trends in manufacturing right up to the fundamental limits imposed by physical law. It will let us make remarkably powerful molecular computers. It will let us make materials over fifty times lighter than steel or aluminium alloy but with the same strength. We'll be able to make jets, rockets, cars or even chairs that, by today's standards, would be remarkably light, strong, and inexpensive. Molecular surgical tools, guided by molecular computers and injected into the blood stream could find and destroy cancer cells or invading bacteria, unclog arteries, or provide oxygen when the circulation is impaired.\n\nNanotechnology will replace our entire manufacturing base with a new, radically more precise, radically less expensive, and radically more flexible way of making products. The aim is not simply to replace today's computer chip making plants, but also to replace the assembly lines for cars, televisions, telephones, books, surgical tools, missiles, bookcases, airplanes, tractors, and all the rest. The objective is a pervasive change in manufacturing, a change that will leave virtually no product untouched. Economic progress and military readiness in the 21st Century will depend fundamentally on maintaining a competitive position in nanotechnology.\n\nDespite the current early developmental status of nanotechnology and molecular nanotechnology, much concern surrounds MNT's anticipated impact on economics and on law. Whatever the exact effects, MNT, if achieved, would tend to reduce the scarcity of manufactured goods and make many more goods (such as food and health aids) manufacturable.\n\nMNT should make possible nanomedical capabilities able to cure any medical condition not already cured by advances in other areas. Good health would be common, and poor health of any form would be as rare as smallpox and scurvy are today. Even cryonics would be feasible, as cryopreserved tissue could be fully repaired.\n\nMolecular nanotechnology is one of the technologies that some analysts believe could lead to a technological singularity.\nSome feel that molecular nanotechnology would have daunting risks. It conceivably could enable cheaper and more destructive conventional weapons. Also, molecular nanotechnology might permit weapons of mass destruction that could self-replicate, as viruses and cancer cells do when attacking the human body. Commentators generally agree that, in the event molecular nanotechnology were developed, its self-replication should be permitted only under very controlled or \"inherently safe\" conditions.\n\nA fear exists that nanomechanical robots, if achieved, and if designed to self-replicate using naturally occurring materials (a difficult task), could consume the entire planet in their hunger for raw materials, or simply crowd out natural life, out-competing it for energy (as happened historically when blue-green algae appeared and outcompeted earlier life forms). Some commentators have referred to this situation as the \"grey goo\" or \"ecophagy\" scenario. K. Eric Drexler considers an accidental \"grey goo\" scenario extremely unlikely and says so in later editions of \"Engines of Creation\".\n\nIn light of this perception of potential danger, the Foresight Institute, founded by Drexler, has prepared a set of guidelines for the ethical development of nanotechnology. These include the banning of free-foraging self-replicating pseudo-organisms on the Earth's surface, at least, and possibly in other places.\n\nThe feasibility of the basic technologies analyzed in \"Nanosystems\" has been the subject of a formal scientific review by U.S. National Academy of Sciences, and has also been the focus of extensive debate on the internet and in the popular press.\n\nIn 2006, U.S. National Academy of Sciences released the report of a study of molecular manufacturing as part of a longer report, \"A Matter of Size: Triennial Review of the National Nanotechnology Initiative\" The study committee reviewed the technical content of \"Nanosystems\", and in its conclusion states that no current theoretical analysis can be considered definitive regarding several questions of potential system performance, and that optimal paths for implementing high-performance systems cannot be predicted with confidence. It recommends experimental research to advance knowledge in this area:\n\nA section heading in Drexler's \"Engines of Creation\" reads \"Universal Assemblers\", and the following text speaks of multiple types of assemblers which, collectively, could hypothetically \"build almost anything that the laws of nature allow to exist.\" Drexler's colleague Ralph Merkle has noted that, contrary to widespread legend, Drexler never claimed that assembler systems could build absolutely any molecular structure. The endnotes in Drexler's book explain the qualification \"almost\": \"For example, a delicate structure might be designed that, like a stone arch, would self-destruct unless all its pieces were already in place. If there were no room in the design for the placement and removal of a scaffolding, then the structure might be impossible to build. Few structures of practical interest seem likely to exhibit such a problem, however.\"\n\nIn 1992, Drexler published \"Nanosystems: Molecular Machinery, Manufacturing, and Computation\", a detailed proposal for synthesizing stiff covalent structures using a table-top factory. Diamondoid structures and other stiff covalent structures, if achieved, would have a wide range of possible applications, going far beyond current MEMS technology. An outline of a path was put forward in 1992 for building a table-top factory in the absence of an assembler. Other researchers have begun advancing tentative, alternative proposed paths for this in the years since Nanosystems was published.\n\nIn 2004 Richard Jones wrote Soft Machines (nanotechnology and life), a book for lay audiences published by Oxford University. In this book he describes radical nanotechnology (as advocated by Drexler) as a deterministic/mechanistic idea of nano engineered machines that does not take into account the nanoscale challenges such as wetness, stickiness, Brownian motion, and high viscosity. He also explains what is soft nanotechnology or more appropriatelly biomimetic nanotechnology which is the way forward, if not the best way, to design functional nanodevices that can cope with all the problems at a nanoscale. One can think of soft nanotechnology as the development of nanomachines that uses the lessons learned from biology on how things work, chemistry to precisely engineer such devices and stochastic physics to model the system and its natural processes in detail.\n\nSeveral researchers, including Nobel Prize winner Dr. Richard Smalley (1943–2005), attacked the notion of universal assemblers, leading to a rebuttal from Drexler and colleagues, and eventually to an exchange of letters. Smalley argued that chemistry is extremely complicated, reactions are hard to control, and that a universal assembler is science fiction. Drexler and colleagues, however, noted that Drexler never proposed universal assemblers able to make absolutely anything, but instead proposed more limited assemblers able to make a very wide variety of things. They challenged the relevance of Smalley's arguments to the more specific proposals advanced in \"Nanosystems\". Also, Smalley argued that nearly all of modern chemistry involves reactions that take place in a solvent (usually water), because the small molecules of a solvent contribute many things, such as lowering binding energies for transition states. Since nearly all known chemistry requires a solvent, Smalley felt that Drexler's proposal to use a high vacuum environment was not feasible. However, Drexler addresses this in Nanosystems by showing mathematically that well designed catalysts can provide the effects of a solvent and can fundamentally be made even more efficient than a solvent/enzyme reaction could ever be. It is noteworthy that, contrary to Smalley's opinion that enzymes require water, \"Not only do enzymes work vigorously in anhydrous organic media, but in this unnatural milieu they acquire remarkable properties such as greatly enhanced stability, radically altered substrate and enantiomeric specificities, molecular memory, and the ability to catalyse unusual reactions.\"\n\nFor the future, some means have to be found for MNT design evolution at the nanoscale which mimics the process of biological evolution at the molecular scale. Biological evolution proceeds by random variation in ensemble averages of organisms combined with culling of the less-successful variants and reproduction of the more-successful variants, and macroscale engineering design also proceeds by a process of design evolution from simplicity to complexity as set forth somewhat satirically by John Gall: \"A complex system that works is invariably found to have evolved from a simple system that worked. . . . A complex system designed from scratch never works and can not be patched up to make it work. You have to start over, beginning with a system that works.\" A breakthrough in MNT is needed which proceeds from the simple atomic ensembles which can be built with, e.g., an STM to complex MNT systems via a process of design evolution. A handicap in this process is the difficulty of seeing and manipulation at the nanoscale compared to the macroscale which makes deterministic selection of successful trials difficult; in contrast biological evolution proceeds via action of what Richard Dawkins has called the \"blind watchmaker\"\ncomprising random molecular variation and deterministic reproduction/extinction.\n\nAt present in 2007 the practice of nanotechnology embraces both stochastic approaches (in which, for example, supramolecular chemistry creates waterproof pants) and deterministic approaches wherein single molecules (created by stochastic chemistry) are manipulated on substrate surfaces (created by stochastic deposition methods) by deterministic methods comprising nudging them with STM or AFM probes and causing simple binding or cleavage reactions to occur. The dream of a complex, deterministic molecular nanotechnology remains elusive. Since the mid-1990s, thousands of surface scientists and thin film technocrats have latched on to the nanotechnology bandwagon and redefined their disciplines as nanotechnology. This has caused much confusion in the field and has spawned thousands of \"nano\"-papers on the peer reviewed literature. Most of these reports are extensions of the more ordinary research done in the parent fields.\n\nThe feasibility of Drexler's proposals largely depends, therefore, on whether designs like those in \"Nanosystems\" could be built in the absence of a universal assembler to build them and would work as described. Supporters of molecular nanotechnology frequently claim that no significant errors have been discovered in \"Nanosystems\" since 1992. Even some critics concede that \"Drexler has carefully considered a number of physical principles underlying the 'high level' aspects of the nanosystems he proposes and, indeed, has thought in some detail\" about some issues.\n\nOther critics claim, however, that \"Nanosystems\" omits important chemical details about the low-level 'machine language' of molecular nanotechnology. They also claim that much of the other low-level chemistry in \"Nanosystems\" requires extensive further work, and that Drexler's higher-level designs therefore rest on speculative foundations. Recent such further work by Freitas and Merkle is aimed at strengthening these foundations by filling the existing gaps in the low-level chemistry.\n\nDrexler argues that we may need to wait until our conventional nanotechnology improves before solving these issues: \"Molecular manufacturing will result from a series of advances in molecular machine systems, much as the first Moon landing resulted from a series of advances in liquid-fuel rocket systems. We are now in a position like that of the British Interplanetary Society of the 1930s which described how multistage liquid-fueled rockets could reach the Moon and pointed to early rockets as illustrations of the basic principle.\" However, Freitas and Merkle argue that a focused effort to achieve diamond mechanosynthesis (DMS) can begin now, using existing technology, and might achieve success in less than a decade if their \"direct-to-DMS approach is pursued rather than a more circuitous development approach that seeks to implement less efficacious nondiamondoid molecular manufacturing technologies before progressing to diamondoid\".\n\nTo summarize the arguments against feasibility: First, critics argue that a primary barrier to achieving molecular nanotechnology is the lack of an efficient way to create machines on a molecular/atomic scale, especially in the absence of a well-defined path toward a self-replicating assembler or diamondoid nanofactory. Advocates respond that a preliminary research path leading to a diamondoid nanofactory is being developed.\n\nA second difficulty in reaching molecular nanotechnology is design. Hand design of a gear or bearing at the level of atoms might take a few to several weeks. While Drexler, Merkle and others have created designs of simple parts, no comprehensive design effort for anything approaching the complexity of a Model T Ford has been attempted. Advocates respond that it is difficult to undertake a comprehensive design effort in the absence of significant funding for such efforts, and that despite this handicap much useful design-ahead has nevertheless been accomplished with new software tools that have been developed, e.g., at Nanorex.\n\nIn the latest report \"A Matter of Size: Triennial Review of the National Nanotechnology Initiative\" put out by the National Academies Press in December 2006 (roughly twenty years after Engines of Creation was published), no clear way forward toward molecular nanotechnology could yet be seen, as per the conclusion on page 108 of that report: \"Although theoretical calculations can be made today, the eventually attainable\nrange of chemical reaction cycles, error rates, speed of operation, and thermodynamic\nefficiencies of such bottom-up manufacturing systems cannot be reliably\npredicted at this time. Thus, the eventually attainable perfection and complexity of\nmanufactured products, while they can be calculated in theory, cannot be predicted\nwith confidence. Finally, the optimum research paths that might lead to systems\nwhich greatly exceed the thermodynamic efficiencies and other capabilities of\nbiological systems cannot be reliably predicted at this time. Research funding that\nis based on the ability of investigators to produce experimental demonstrations\nthat link to abstract models and guide long-term vision is most appropriate to\nachieve this goal.\" This call for research leading to demonstrations is welcomed by groups such as the Nanofactory Collaboration who are specifically seeking experimental successes in diamond mechanosynthesis. The \"Technology Roadmap for Productive Nanosystems\" aims to offer additional constructive insights.\n\nIt is perhaps interesting to ask whether or not most structures consistent with physical law can in fact be manufactured. Advocates assert that to achieve most of the vision of molecular manufacturing it is not necessary to be able to build \"any structure that is compatible with natural law.\" Rather, it is necessary to be able to build only a sufficient (possibly modest) subset of such structures—as is true, in fact, of any practical manufacturing process used in the world today, and is true even in biology. In any event, as Richard Feynman once said, \"It is scientific only to say what's more likely or less likely, and not to be proving all the time what's possible or impossible.\"\n\nThere is a growing body of peer-reviewed theoretical work on synthesizing diamond by mechanically removing/adding hydrogen atoms and depositing carbon atoms (a process known as mechanosynthesis). This work is slowly permeating the broader nanoscience community and is being critiqued. For instance, Peng et al. (2006) (in the continuing research effort by Freitas, Merkle and their collaborators) reports that the most-studied mechanosynthesis tooltip motif (DCB6Ge) successfully places a C carbon dimer on a C(110) diamond surface at both 300 K (room temperature) and 80 K (liquid nitrogen temperature), and that the silicon variant (DCB6Si) also works at 80 K but not at 300 K. Over 100,000 CPU hours were invested in this latest study. The DCB6 tooltip motif, initially described by Merkle and Freitas at a Foresight Conference in 2002, was the first complete tooltip ever proposed for diamond mechanosynthesis and remains the only tooltip motif that has been successfully simulated for its intended function on a full 200-atom diamond surface.\n\nThe tooltips modeled in this work are intended to be used only in carefully controlled environments (e. g., vacuum). Maximum acceptable limits for tooltip translational and rotational misplacement errors are reported in Peng et al. (2006) -- tooltips must be positioned with great accuracy to avoid bonding the dimer incorrectly. Peng et al. (2006) reports that increasing the handle thickness from 4 support planes of C atoms above the tooltip to 5 planes decreases the resonance frequency of the entire structure from 2.0 THz to 1.8 THz. More importantly, the vibrational footprints of a DCB6Ge tooltip mounted on a 384-atom handle and of the same tooltip mounted on a similarly constrained but much larger 636-atom \"crossbar\" handle are virtually identical in the non-crossbar directions. Additional computational studies modeling still bigger handle structures are welcome, but the ability to precisely position SPM tips to the requisite atomic accuracy has been repeatedly demonstrated experimentally at low temperature, or even at room temperature constituting a basic existence proof for this capability.\n\nFurther research to consider additional tooltips will require time-consuming computational chemistry and difficult laboratory work.\n\nA working nanofactory would require a variety of well-designed tips for different reactions, and detailed analyses of placing atoms on more complicated surfaces. Although this appears a challenging problem given current resources, many tools will be available to help future researchers: Moore's law predicts further increases in computer power, semiconductor fabrication techniques continue to approach the nanoscale, and researchers grow ever more skilled at using proteins, ribosomes and DNA to perform novel chemistry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15215875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15215875", "title": "Nilofar Sakhi", "text": "Nilofar Sakhi\n\nNilofar Sakhi holds a Phd from George Mason University. She also holds a Master degree in International Public Policy from Johns Hopkins School for Advanced International Studies, and MA in Conflict Transformation and Peacebuilding from Eastern Mennonite University. She has a bachelor degree in Political Science. \nSakhi is a Fulbright Scholar(2007).\n\nNilofar Sakhi is a scholar-practitioner in development sector.She is a lecturer at George Mason University. \nSakhi began her career as a political education officer in Aurat Foundation, a national NGO in Pakistan. Sakhi is the founder and former executive director of a national NGO WASSA, the first women's NGO in Herat, Afghanistan founded in 2002. While there she established the Center for Conflict Analysis and Resolution at WASSA in 2008. Sakhi remains the chairperson of the board at WASSA. \nShe is the former Executive Director at American University of Afghanistan, and former country director of Open Society Afghanistan (OSA). Prior to serving as country director she was the Senior Consultant on Rule of Law, Transitional Justice, Human Rights and Women’s Rights at the Open Society Institute in Afghanistan. She has served as a fellow at both the International Center for Tolerance Education and the Asia 21 Young Leaders Initiative in 2010, and as a visiting fellow at the National Endowment for Democracy, Columbia University. She is also on the International Steering Committee at Afghanistan: Pathways to Peace\n\nAt the dedication of ICAWED Sakhi was praised for her work promoting the rights of women by former First Lady of the United States Laura Bush. The institute also houses the Laura Bush Library and Resource Center and was funded by a $5 million grant from the U.S. Department of Defense Task Force for Business and Stability Operations. The work of the center focuses on providing the tools and resources necessary to promote women's rights and opportunities in business and government in Afghanistan. During her time with ICAWED she has met with several dignitaries, including United States Secretary of State John Kerry Her work has focused largely on advocating at the national and international level for improvements in public policies involving the rights of women and peaceful economic and political transition.\n\nSpeaking of the future of women's rights in a Voice of America interview Sakhi noted that the next generation of women have strong role models in current Afghan society,“Looking at women talking about their political rights in parliament, looking at women entering into business and having trade in Malaysia and Dubai, and looking at women who are successful personalities internationally of raising Afghanistan voices. This gives an image.”\n\n"}
{"id": "3266471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3266471", "title": "Nuisance fee", "text": "Nuisance fee\n\nA nuisance fee is a fee, fine, or penalty which is charged to deter an action, rather than to compensate for the costs of that action. For example, a five-dollar penalty for submitting an application late does not compensate for costs associated with processing late submissions, but rather encourages people to submit on time.\n"}
{"id": "33791438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33791438", "title": "Outline of domestic violence", "text": "Outline of domestic violence\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to domestic violence:\n\nDomestic violence – pattern of abusive behaviors by one or both partners in an intimate relationship, such as marriage, dating, family, or cohabitation. It is also known as domestic abuse, spousal abuse, battering, family violence, and intimate partner violence (IPV).\n\nDomestic violence can be described as all of the following:\n\n\nEpidemiology of domestic violence – Domestic violence occurs across the world, in various cultures, and affects people across society, irrespective of economic status or gender.\n\nThe following table includes the forms of violence typically defined as part of Intimate partner violence, which is domestic violence in an intimate relationship by one's spouse or lover. It also includes a column for other family members or partners.\n\nThe rate of occurrence varies considerably based upon one's country, socio-economic class, culture, religion, family history and other factors.\n\n\nAnother study published in the Violence & Victims Journal Vol. 1 concluded that a feminist analysis of Domestic Abuse was necessary to combat common misconceptions. The study found that 92% of women who used violence against their male partners were in self-defense, and that violence reciprocated by victims may be an integral part of abuse victimology.\n\nStop Abuse For Everyone (SAFE), a United States domestic violence organization, advocates for an \"inclusive\" model of domestic violence, focusing on groups that are \"lacking in services\", such as abused men, gay, lesbian, intersex, and transgender victims, and the elderly.\n\n\n\nThe incidence of abuse may result in the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6501070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6501070", "title": "Part–whole theory", "text": "Part–whole theory\n\nPart–whole theory is the name of a loose collection of historical theories, all informal and nearly all unwitting, relating wholes to their parts via inclusion. Part–whole theory has been overtaken by mereology.\n\nMetaphysics, especially ontology, has invoked part–whole concepts ever since Aristotle founded the subject.\n\nHusserl (1970) (German original first published in 1901) was the first to consciously elaborate a part–whole theory (on which see Tieszen 1995). However he employed no symbolism or logic, even though his doctorate was in mathematics and Georg Cantor was his friend and colleague; Husserl wrote only for his fellow philosophers.\n\n19th century mathematicians became dimly aware that they were invoking a part–whole theory of sorts only after Cantor and Peano first articulated set theory. Before then, mathematicians often confused inclusion and membership. Grattan-Guinness (2000) appears to have been the first to draw attention to this unwitting part–whole theory.\n\nPeano was among the first to articulate clearly the distinction between membership in a given set, and being a subset of that set. A subset of a set is usually not also a member of that set. However, the members of a subset are all members of the set. In set theory, a singleton cannot be identified with its member. In part–whole theory and mereology, this identification necessarily holds.\n\nThe Cantor–Peano concept of set did not become canonical until about 1910, when the first volume of \"Principia Mathematica\" appeared, and right after Ernst Zermelo proposed the first axiomatization of set theory in 1908. \n\nStarting in 1916, and culminating in his 1929 \"Process and Reality\", A. N. Whitehead published several books invoking part–whole concepts of varying degrees of formality; see Whitehead's point-free geometry.\n\nPart–whole theory has been superseded by a collection of fully formal theories called mereology, Stanislaw Lesniewski's term for a formal part–whole theory he began expositing in 1912. Over the course of the 20th century, a number of Polish logicians and mathematicians contributed to this \"Polish mereology.\" Even though Polish mereology is now only of historical interest, the word \"mereology\" endures as the name of a collection of first order theories relating parts to their respective wholes. These theories, unlike set theory, can be proved sound and complete.\n\nNearly all work that has appeared since 1970 under the heading of mereology descends from the 1940 calculus of individuals of Henry Leonard and Nelson Goodman. Simons (1987) is a survey of mereology aimed at philosophers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23637", "title": "Phase (matter)", "text": "Phase (matter)\n\nIn the physical sciences, a phase is a region of space (a thermodynamic system), throughout which all physical properties of a material are essentially uniform. Examples of physical properties include density, index of refraction, magnetization and chemical composition. A simple description is that a phase is a region of material that is chemically uniform, physically distinct, and (often) mechanically separable. In a system consisting of ice and water in a glass jar, the ice cubes are one phase, the water is a second phase, and the humid air is a third phase over the ice and water. The glass of the jar is another separate phase. (See )\n\nThe term \"phase\" is sometimes used as a synonym for state of matter, but there can be several immiscible phases of the same state of matter. Also, the term \"phase\" is sometimes used to refer to a set of equilibrium states demarcated in terms of state variables such as pressure and temperature by a phase boundary on a phase diagram. Because phase boundaries relate to changes in the organization of matter, such as a change from liquid to solid or a more subtle change from one crystal structure to another, this latter usage is similar to the use of \"phase\" as a synonym for state of matter. However, the state of matter and phase diagram usages are not commensurate with the formal definition given above and the intended meaning must be determined in part from the context in which the term is used.\n\nDistinct phases may be described as different states of matter such as gas, liquid, solid, plasma or Bose–Einstein condensate. Useful mesophases between solid and liquid form other states of matter.\n\nDistinct phases may also exist within a given state of matter. As shown in the diagram for iron alloys, several phases exist for both the solid and liquid states. Phases may also be differentiated based on solubility as in polar (hydrophilic) or non-polar (hydrophobic). A mixture of water (a polar liquid) and oil (a non-polar liquid) will spontaneously separate into two phases. Water has a very low solubility (is insoluble) in oil, and oil has a low solubility in water. Solubility is the maximum amount of a solute that can dissolve in a solvent before the solute ceases to dissolve and remains in a separate phase. A mixture can separate into more than two liquid phases and the concept of phase separation extends to solids, i.e., solids can form solid solutions or crystallize into distinct crystal phases. Metal pairs that are mutually soluble can form alloys, whereas metal pairs that are mutually insoluble cannot.\n\nAs many as eight immiscible liquid phases have been observed. Mutually immiscible liquid phases are formed from water (aqueous phase), hydrophobic organic solvents, perfluorocarbons (fluorous phase), silicones, several different metals, and also from molten phosphorus. Not all organic solvents are completely miscible, e.g. a mixture of ethylene glycol and toluene may separate into two distinct organic phases.\n\nPhases do not need to macroscopically separate spontaneously. Emulsions and colloids are examples of immiscible phase pair combinations that do not physically separate.\nLeft to equilibration, many compositions will form a uniform single phase, but depending on the temperature and pressure even a single substance may separate into two or more distinct phases. Within each phase, the properties are uniform but between the two phases properties differ.\n\nWater in a closed jar with an air space over it forms a two phase system. Most of the water is in the liquid phase, where it is held by the mutual attraction of water molecules. Even at equilibrium molecules are constantly in motion and, once in a while, a molecule in the liquid phase gains enough kinetic energy to break away from the liquid phase and enter the gas phase. Likewise, every once in a while a vapor molecule collides with the liquid surface and condenses into the liquid. At equilibrium, evaporation and condensation processes exactly balance and there is no net change in the volume of either phase.\n\nAt room temperature and pressure, the water jar reaches equilibrium when the air over the water has a humidity of about 3%. This percentage increases as the temperature goes up. At 100 °C and atmospheric pressure, equilibrium is not reached until the air is 100% water. If the liquid is heated a little over 100 °C, the transition from liquid to gas will occur not only at the surface, but throughout the liquid volume: the water boils.\n\nFor a given composition, only certain phases are possible at a given temperature and pressure. The number and type of phases that will form is hard to predict and is usually determined by experiment. The results of such experiments can be plotted in phase diagrams.\n\nThe phase diagram shown here is for a single component system. In this simple system, which phases that are possible depends only on pressure and temperature. The markings show points where two or more phases can co-exist in equilibrium. At temperatures and pressures away from the markings, there will be only one phase at equilibrium.\n\nIn the diagram, the blue line marking the boundary between liquid and gas does not continue indefinitely, but terminates at a point called the critical point. As the temperature and pressure approach the critical point, the properties of the liquid and gas become progressively more similar. At the critical point, the liquid and gas become indistinguishable. Above the critical point, there are no longer separate liquid and gas phases: there is only a generic fluid phase referred to as a supercritical fluid. In water, the critical point occurs at around 647 K (374 °C or 705 °F) and 22.064 MPa.\n\nAn unusual feature of the water phase diagram is that the solid–liquid phase line (illustrated by the dotted green line) has a negative slope. For most substances, the slope is positive as exemplified by the dark green line. This unusual feature of water is related to ice having a lower density than liquid water. Increasing the pressure drives the water into the higher density phase, which causes melting.\n\nAnother interesting though not unusual feature of the phase diagram is the point where the solid–liquid phase line meets the liquid–gas phase line. The intersection is referred to as the triple point. At the triple point, all three phases can coexist.\n\nExperimentally, the phase lines are relatively easy to map due to the interdependence of temperature and pressure that develops when multiple phases forms. See Gibbs' phase rule. Consider a test apparatus consisting of a closed and well insulated cylinder equipped with a piston. By charging the right amount of water and applying heat, the system can be brought to any point in the gas region of the phase diagram. If the piston is slowly lowered, the system will trace a curve of increasing temperature and pressure within the gas region of the phase diagram. At the point where gas begins to condense to liquid, the direction of the temperature and pressure curve will abruptly change to trace along the phase line until all of the water has condensed.\n\nBetween two phases in equilibrium there is a narrow region where the properties are not that of either phase. Although this region may be very thin, it can have significant and easily observable effects, such as causing a liquid to exhibit surface tension. In mixtures, some components may preferentially move toward the interface. In terms of modeling, describing, or understanding the behavior of a particular system, it may be efficacious to treat the interfacial region as a separate phase.\n\nA single material may have several distinct solid states capable of forming separate phases. Water is a well-known example of such a material. For example, water ice is ordinarily found in the hexagonal form ice I, but can also exist as the cubic ice I, the rhombohedral ice II, and many other forms. Polymorphism is the ability of a solid to exist in more than one crystal form. For pure chemical elements, polymorphism is known as allotropy. For example, diamond, graphite, and fullerenes are different allotropes of carbon.\n\nWhen a substance undergoes a phase transition (changes from one state of matter to another) it usually either takes up or releases energy. For example, when water evaporates, the increase in kinetic energy as the evaporating molecules escape the attractive forces of the liquid is reflected in a decrease in temperature. The energy required to induce the phase transition is taken from the internal thermal energy of the water, which cools the liquid to a lower temperature; hence evaporation is useful for cooling. See Enthalpy of vaporization. The reverse process, condensation, releases heat. The heat energy, or enthalpy, associated with a solid to liquid transition is the enthalpy of fusion and that associated with a solid to gas transition is the enthalpy of sublimation.\n\nWhile phases of matter are traditionally defined for systems in thermal equilibrium, work on quantum many-body localized (MBL) systems has provided a framework for defining phases out of equilibrium. MBL phases never reach thermal equilibrium, and can allow for new forms of order disallowed in equilibrium via a phenomenon known as localization protected quantum order. The transitions between different MBL phases and between MBL and thermalizing phases are novel dynamical phase transitions whose properties are active areas of research. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8404649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8404649", "title": "Pressure–volume diagram", "text": "Pressure–volume diagram\n\nA pressure–volume diagram (or PV diagram, or volume–pressure loop) is used to describe corresponding changes in volume and pressure in a system. They are commonly used in thermodynamics, cardiovascular physiology, and respiratory physiology.\n\nPV diagrams, originally called indicator diagrams, were developed in the 18th century as tools for understanding the efficiency of steam engines.\n\nA PV diagram plots the change in pressure \"P\" with respect to volume \"V\" for some process or processes. Typically in thermodynamics, the set of processes forms a cycle, so that upon completion of the cycle there has been no net change in state of the system; i.e. the device returns to the starting pressure and volume.\n\nThe figure shows the features of a typical PV diagram. A series of numbered states (1 through 4) are noted. The path between each state consists of some process (A through D) which alters the pressure or volume of the system (or both).\n\nA key feature of the diagram is that the amount of energy expended or received by the system as work can be estimated as the area under the curve on the chart. For a cyclic diagram, the net work is that \"enclosed\" by the curve. In the example given in the figure, the processes 1-2-3 produce a work output, but processes from 3-4-1 require a smaller energy input to return to the starting position / state; thus the net work is the difference between the two.\n\nNote that this figure is highly idealized, and a diagram showing the processes in a real device would tend to depict a more complex shape of the PV curve. (See section Applications, below).\n\nThe PV diagram, then called an indicator diagram, was developed by James Watt and his employee John Southern (1758–1815) to improve the efficiency of engines. In 1796, Southern developed the simple, but critical, technique to generate the diagram by fixing a board so as to move with the piston, thereby tracing the \"volume\" axis, while a pencil, attached to a pressure gauge, moved at right angles to the piston, tracing \"pressure\".\n\nThe gauge enabled Watt to calculate the work done by the steam while ensuring that its pressure had dropped to zero by the end of the stroke, thereby ensuring that all useful energy had been extracted. The total work could be calculated from the area between the \"volume\" axis and the traced line. The latter fact had been realised by Davies Gilbert as early as 1792 and used by Jonathan Hornblower in litigation against Watt over patents on various designs. Daniel Bernoulli had also had the insight about how to calculate work.\n\nWatt used the diagram to make radical improvements to steam engine performance and long kept it a trade secret. Though it was made public in a letter to the \"Quarterly Journal of Science\" in 1822, it remained somewhat obscure. John Farey, Jr. only learned of it on seeing it used, probably by Watt's men, when he visited Russia in 1826.\n\nIn 1834, Émile Clapeyron used a diagram of pressure against volume to illustrate and elucidate the Carnot cycle, elevating it to a central position in the study of thermodynamics.\n\nLater instruments (\"illus.\") used paper wrapped around a cylindrical barrel with a pressure piston inside it, the rotation of the barrel coupled to the piston crosshead by a weight- or spring-tensioned wire.\n\nIn 1869 the British marine engineer Nicholas Procter Burgh wrote a full book on the indicator diagram explaining the device step by step. He had noticed that \"a very large proportion of the young members of the engineering profession look at an indicator diagram as a mysterious production.\"\n\nPV diagrams can be used to estimate the net work performed by a thermodynamic cycle. The net work is the area enclosed by the PV curve in the diagram. This usage derived from the development of indicator diagrams which were used to estimate the performance of a steam engine. Specifically, the diagram records the pressure of steam versus the volume of steam in a cylinder, throughout a piston's cycle of motion in a steam engine. The diagram enables calculation of the work performed and thus can provide a measure of the power produced by the engine.\nTo exactly calculate the work done by the system it is necessary to calculate the integral of the pressure with respect to volume. One can often quickly calculate this using the PV diagram as it is simply the area enclosed by the cycle.\n\nNote that in some cases specific volume will be plotted on the x-axis instead of volume, in which case the area under the curve represents work per unit mass of the working fluid (i.e. J/kg).\n\nIn cardiovascular physiology, the diagram is often applied to the left ventricle, and it can be mapped to specific events of the cardiac cycle. PV loop studies are widely used in basic research and preclinical testing, to characterize the intact heart's performance under various situations (effect of drugs, disease, characterization of mouse strains),\n\nThe sequence of events occurring in every heart cycle is as follows. The left figure shows a PV loop from a real experiment; letters refer to points.\n\n\nAs it can be seen, the PV loop forms a roughly rectangular shape and each loop is formed in an anti-clockwise direction.\n\nVery useful information can be derived by examination and analysis of individual loops or series of loops, for example: \n\nSee external links for a much more precise representation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19848460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19848460", "title": "QAGS", "text": "QAGS\n\nQAGS (\"Quick Ass Game System\") is a generic role-playing game system for use in freeform role-playing games. QAGS is not tied to any particular genre or setting, and has been used to run everything from paranormal teenagers to post-apocalyptic super-heroes to fantasy sailing adventure to gun-toting monster hunters to \"hard-core\" luchadore action to Regency romance to 80’s cartoons to Shakespeare meets Tarantino.\n\nIn 1998, three gamers (Steve Johnson, Leighton Connor, and Dale French) published the First Edition of the game after a year of development. Since then, QAGS (pronounced \"kwags\") has been updated with a Second Edition, and the publisher, Hex Games, has continued to release games.\n\nTo date, Hex Games has used the core system for \"M-Force: Monster Hunting In The 21st Century\", \"Rasslin’\", \"Qerth\", \"The Adventures Of Sindbad\", \"Rocket Jocks\", \"Weird Times At Charles Fort High\", \n\"Funkadelic Frankenstein on the Mean Streets of Monstertown\", \"Hobomancer\", \"Edison Force\", and \"The Pytheas Club\", as well as several stand alone adventures such as \"Deep Space Rescue\" and \"The Dungeon Of Moderate Annoyance (Not Nearly So Bad As The Dungeon Of Infinite Pain)\".\n\nIn 2001, Hex Games was the Gaming Guest of Honor at Marcon 36. In 2006, Hex was the \"Gaming Guest\" of Honor at Archon 30.\n\nIn QAGS, player characters are defined by six Words. Body, Brain, and Nerve represent the character’s physical, \"intellectual\" and mental (willpower and social skills, for example) abilities. Job, Gimmick and Weakness represent what the character does, what makes him unique in the world, and what limits him in a grand Shakespearean way. These last three Words are qualified. For example, a character’s Job might be “Animal Control Officer”, his Gimmick “Hide In Plain Sight”, and his Weakness “Dies if touches peanut butter”. Each of these six Words is assigned a Number ranging from 6 to 16. Skills, areas of knowledge that round out the character, with Numbers ranging from +1 to +5 are also assigned, and they will be used to modify target numbers when rolls are called for. Numbers are generated by using either the Qik Start system that relies on dice-rolling, or the Point Built system in which the player is given a certain number of points with which to create the character.\n\nPlayer characters are further fleshed out by assigning them a Tag Line (something that the character routinely says, such as “Jinkies, a Clue!”), WWPHITM (Who Will Play Him/Her In The Movie), and any number of Dumb Facts.\n\nWhen the Game Master determines that a character’s action goes beyond what would be considered normal or everyday, she decides what Word is applicable and use that Word’s Number as the target number. If no Word is applicable, the GM will use half the player’s Body, Brain or Nerve Number rounded down as a default target number. Any Skill modifiers are added to determine the modified target number. Then she asks the player to roll a 20-sided die; no other dice are required to play QAGS. The number rolled on the die is then compared to the modified target \"number\" assigned to the appropriate Word. If the roll is under the modified target number, the action succeeds; over the modified target number, a failure. If two characters are in opposition, hand-to-hand combat for example, then the higher successful role is the one that actually succeeds.\n\nIn an example of play, Our Hero, Rollo the Superspy, wants to impress Isvestia, a beautiful Ruritanian counterintelligence agent, at the casino in Monte Carlo. He adds his +2 skill in “Tango Dancing” to the 12 of his “Superspy” Job, which she will oppose with her 15 Nerve. He rolls a 13 while she rolls a 4. Both are \"successful\", but his roll, being higher, is the one that succeeds. The result should be that he has her eating out of his hand, but Rollo also has “Overplays His Hand” for a Weakness with a Number of 13. He rolls a 9, and the Weakness wins and takes effect, thus releasing Isvestia from her fascination.\n\nSimple dice-rolling is augmented by the use of Yum Yums. Yum Yums are anything compact and edible, anything from hard candies to potato chips. Yum Yums may be used to buy automatic successes, chances to re-roll failed rolls, and to modify things like damage given and taken. They also give players a chance to take control of a game and determine details about the game world. Additional Yum Yums are handed out for advancing the plot, role-playing well, or making the GM snort lemonade out her nose.\n\nIn the play example of Rollo the Superspy (eyeballing Isvestia across the ballroom floor), he can throw the GM a Yum Yum instead of rolling dice, granting him an automatic success in his attempt to impress Isvestia. The GM again invokes his weakness, but Rollo can throw another Yum Yum to avoid having his Weakness take effect. Now Isvestia's ready to tell him \"anything\".\n\nQAGS can be as complex or as simple as the GM and players want it to be, and the rules can be easily adapted to include whatever mechanic a new setting might require. For example, \"Rasslin’\" needed to add a mechanic for resolving the showy combat of professional wrestling; \"Rocket Jocks\" needed rules for spaceship combat; and \"Weird Times at Charles Fort High\" needed an alternative point-build character generation system to balance the different paranormal characters.\n\n"}
{"id": "71100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71100", "title": "Red-eared slider", "text": "Red-eared slider\n\nThe red-eared slider (\"Trachemys scripta elegans\"), also known as the red-eared terrapin, is a semiaquatic turtle belonging to the family Emydidae. It is a subspecies of the pond slider. It is the most popular pet turtle in the United States and is also popular as a pet in the rest of the world. It has, therefore, become the most commonly traded turtle in the world. It is native to the southern United States and northern Mexico, but has become established in other places because of pet releases, and has become an invasive species in many areas, where it outcompetes native species. The red-eared slider is included in the list of the world's 100 most invasive species published by the IUCN.\n\nThe red-eared slider get its name from the small red stripe around its ears and from its ability to slide quickly off rocks and logs into the water. This species was previously known as Troost's turtle in honor of an American herpetologist Gerard Troost. \"Trachemys scripta troostii\" is now the scientific name for another subspecies, the Cumberland slider.\n\nThe red-eared slider belongs to the order Testudines which contains about 250 turtle species. It is a subspecies of \"Trachemys scripta\". It was previously classified under the name \"Chrysemys scripta elegans\".\n\nThe species \"Trachemys scripta\" contains three subspecies: \"T. s. elegans\" (red-eared slider), \"T. s. scripta\" (yellow-bellied slider), and \"T. s. troostii\" (Cumberland slider).\n\nThe carapace of this species can reach more than in length, but the average length ranges from . The females of the species are usually larger than the males. They typically live between 20 and 30 years, although some individuals have lived for more than 40 years. Their life expectancy is shorter when they are kept in captivity. The quality of their living environment has a strong influence on their lifespans and well being.\n\nThese turtles are poikilotherms, meaning they are unable to regulate their body temperatures independently; they are completely dependent on the temperature of their environment. For this reason, they need to sunbathe frequently to warm themselves and maintain their body temperatures.\n\nThe shell is divided into two sections: the upper or dorsal carapace, and the lower, ventral carapace or plastron. The upper carapace consists of the vertebral scutes, which form the central, elevated portion; pleural scutes that are located around the vertebral scutes; and then the marginal scutes around the edge of the carapace. The rear marginal scutes are notched. The scutes are bony keratinous elements. The carapace is oval and flattened (especially in the male) and has a weak keel that is more pronounced in the young. The color of the carapace changes depending on the age of the turtle. The carapace usually has a dark green background with light and dark, highly variable markings. In young or recently hatched turtles, it is leaf green and gets slightly darker as a turtle gets older, until it is a very dark green, and then turns a shade between brown and olive green. The plastron is always a light yellow with dark, paired, irregular markings in the centre of most scutes. The plastron is highly variable in pattern. The head, legs, and tail are green with fine, irregular, yellow lines. The whole shell is covered in these stripes and markings that aid in camouflaging an individual.\n\nTurtles also have a complete skeletal system, with partially webbed feet that help them to swim and that can be withdrawn inside the carapace along with the head and tail. The red stripe on each side of the head distinguishes the red-eared slider from all other North American species and gives this species its name, as the stripe is located behind the eyes where their (external) ears would be. These stripes may lose their color over time. Some individuals can also have a small mark of the same color on the top of their heads. The red-eared slider does not have a visible outer ear or an external auditory canal; instead, it relies on a middle ear entirely covered by a cartilaginous tympanic disc.\n\nThe main internal organs of these reptiles are the lungs, heart, stomach, liver, intestines, and the urinary bladder. A cloaca serves both excretory and reproductive functions.\n\nSome dimorphism exists between males and females.\n\nRed-eared slider young look practically identical regardless of their sex, making it difficult to determine their sex. However, there is another method to determine their sex, by inspecting the markings under their carapace. These markings will fade as the turtles age. It is much easier to distinguish the sex of adults, as the shells of mature males are smaller than those of females. Male red-eared sliders reach sexual maturity when their carapaces' diameters measure and females reach maturity when their carapaces measure 15 cm. Both male and females reach sexual maturity at five to six years.\nThe male is normally smaller than the female, although this parameter is sometimes difficult to apply as individuals being compared could be of different ages.\n\nMales have longer claws on their front feet than the females; this helps them to hold on to a female during mating and is used during courtship displays. The male's tail is thicker and longer. Typically, the cloacal opening of the female is at or under the rear edge of the carapace, while the male's opening occurs beyond the edge of the carapace. The male's plastron is slightly concave, while that of the female is completely flat. The male's concave plastron also helps to stabilize the male on the female's carapace during mating. Older males can sometimes have a dark greyish-olive green melanistic coloration, with very subdued markings. The red stripe on the sides of the head may be difficult to see or be absent. The female's appearance is substantially the same throughout her life.\n\nThe red-eared slider originated from the area around the Mississippi River and the Gulf of Mexico, in warm climates in the southeastern United States. Their native areas range from the southeast of Colorado to Virginia and Florida. In nature, they inhabit areas with a source of still, warm water, such as ponds, lakes, swamps, creeks, streams, or slow-flowing rivers. They live in areas of calm water where they are able to leave the water easily by climbing onto rocks or tree trunks so they can warm up in the sun. Individuals are often found sunbathing in a group or even on top of each other. They also require abundant aquatic plants, as these are\nthe adults' main food, although they are omnivores. Turtles in the wild always remain close to water unless they are searching for a new habitat or when females leave the water to lay their eggs.\n\nOwing to their popularity as pets, red-eared sliders have been released or escaped into the wild in many parts of the world. The turtle is considered one of the world’s worst invasive species. Feral populations are now found in Australia, Europe, South Africa, the Caribbean Islands, Israel, Bahrain, the Mariana Islands, Guam, and southeast and far-east Asia. In Australia, it is illegal for members of the public to import, keep, trade, or release red-eared sliders, as they are regarded as an invasive species - see below. Their import has been banned by the European Union as well as specific EU member countries. In 2015 Japan announced it was planning to ban the import of red-eared sliders, but it would probably not take effect until 2020. Invasive red-eared sliders cause negative impacts in the ecosystems they occupy because they have certain advantages over the native populations, such as a lower age at maturity, higher fecundity rates, and larger body size, which gives them a competitive advantage at basking and nesting sites, as well as when exploiting food resources. They also transmit diseases and displace the other turtle species with which they compete for food and breeding space.\n\nRed-eared sliders are almost entirely aquatic, but as they are cold-blooded, they leave the water to sunbathe to regulate their temperature. \n\nRed-eared sliders do not hibernate, but actually brumate; while they become less active, they do occasionally rise to the surface for food or air. Brumation can occur to varying degrees. In the wild, red-eared sliders brumate over the winter at the bottoms of ponds or shallow lakes. They generally become inactive in October, when temperatures fall below . During this time, the turtles enter a state of sopor, during which they do not eat or defecate, they remain nearly motionless, and the frequency of their breathing falls.\nIndividuals usually brumate underwater, but they have also been found under banks and rocks, and in hollow stumps. In warmer winter climates, they can become active and come to the surface for basking. When the temperature begins to drop again, however, they quickly return to a brumation state. Sliders generally come up for food in early March to as late as the end of April.\n\nDuring brumation, \"T. s. elegans\" can survive anaerobically for weeks, producing ATP from glycolysis. The turtle's metabolic rate drops dramatically, with heart rate and cardiac output dropping by 80% to minimise energy requirements. The lactic acid produced is buffered by minerals in the shell, preventing acidosis. Red-eared sliders kept captive indoors should not brumate.\n\nCourtship and mating activities for red-eared sliders usually occur between March and July, and take place under water. During courtship, the male swims around the female and flutters or vibrates the back side of his long claws on and around her face and head, possibly to direct pheromones towards her. The female swims toward the male and, if she is receptive, sinks to the bottom for mating. If the female is not receptive, she may become aggressive towards the male. Courtship can last 45 minutes, but mating takes only 10 minutes.\n\nOn occasion, a male may appear to be courting another male, and when kept in captivity may also show this behaviour towards other household pets. Between male turtles, it could be a sign of dominance and may preclude a fight. Young turtles may carry out the courtship dance before they reach sexual maturity at five years of age, but they are unable to mate.\n\nAfter mating, the female spends extra time basking to keep her eggs warm. She may also have a change of diet, eating only certain foods, or not eating as much as she normally would. A female can lay between two and 30 eggs depending on body size and other factors. One female can lay up to five clutches in the same year, and clutches are usually spaced 12 to 36 days apart. The time between mating and egg-laying can be days or weeks. The actual egg fertilization takes place during the egg-laying. This process also permits the laying of fertile eggs the following season, as the sperm can remain viable and available in the female's body in the absence of mating. During the last weeks of gestation, the female spends less time in the water and smells and scratches at the ground, indicating she is searching for a suitable place to lay her eggs. The female excavates a hole, using her hind legs, and lays her eggs in it.\n\nIncubation takes 59 to 112 days. Late-season hatchlings may spend the winter in the nest and emerge when the weather warms in the spring. Just prior to hatching, the egg contains 50% turtle and 50% egg sac. A new hatchling breaks open its egg with its egg tooth, which falls out about an hour after hatching. This egg tooth never grows back. Hatchlings may stay inside their eggshells after hatching for the first day or two. If they are forced to leave the eggshell before they are ready, they will return if possible. When a hatchling decides to leave the shell, it still has a small sac protruding from its plastron. The yolk sac is vital and provides nourishment while visible, and several days later it will have been absorbed into the turtle's belly. The sac must be absorbed, and does not fall off. The split must heal on its own before the turtle is able to swim. The time between the egg hatching and water entry is 21 days.\n\nDamage to or inordinate motion of the protruding egg yolk, enough to allow air into the turtle's body, results in death. This is the main reason for marking the top of turtle eggs if their relocation is required for any reason. An egg turned upside down will eventually terminate the embryo's growth by the sac smothering the embryo. If it manages to reach term, the turtle will try to flip over with the yolk sac, which would allow air into the body cavity and cause death. The other fatal danger is water getting into the body cavity before the sac is absorbed completely and while the opening has not completely healed yet.\n\nThe sex of red-eared sliders is determined by the incubation temperature during critical phases of the embryos' development. Only males are produced when eggs are incubated at temperatures of , whereas females develop at warmer temperatures. Colder temperatures result in the death of the embryos.\n\nRed-eared slider turtles are the world’s most commonly traded reptile, due to their relatively low price, small size and easy maintenance. As with other turtles, tortoises, and box turtles, individuals that survive their first year or two can be expected to live generally around 30 years. But they are an infection risk, and when they mature they can inflict painful bites, which results in many being dumped into the wild with negative ecological, social and economic impacts.\n\nReptiles are asymptomatic (meaning they suffer no adverse side effects) carriers of bacteria of the genus \"Salmonella\". This has given rise to justifiable concerns given the many instances of infection of humans caused by the handling of turtles, which has led to restrictions in the sale of red-eared sliders in the USA. A 1975 U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulation bans the sale (for general commercial and public use) of both turtle eggs and turtles with a carapace length of less than . This regulation comes under the Public Health Service Act, and is enforced by the FDA in cooperation with state and local health jurisdictions. The ban was enacted because of the public health impact of turtle-associated salmonellosis. Turtles and turtle eggs found to be offered for sale in violation of this provision are subject to destruction in accordance with FDA procedures. A fine of up to $1,001 and/or imprisonment for up to one year is the penalty for those who refuse to comply with a valid final demand for destruction of such turtles or their eggs. Many stores and flea markets still sell small turtles due to an exception in the FDA regulation which allows turtles under to be sold \"for \"bona fide\" scientific, educational, or exhibition purposes, other than use as pets.\" As with many other animals and inanimate objects, the risk of \"Salmonella\" exposure can be reduced by following basic rules of cleanliness. Small children must be taught to wash their hands immediately after they finish playing with the turtle, feeding it, or changing its water.\n\nSome states have other laws and regulations regarding possession of red-eared sliders because they can be an invasive species where they are not native and have been introduced through the pet trade. Now, it is illegal in Florida to sell any wild-type red-eared slider, as they interbreed with the local yellow-bellied slider population — \"Trachemys scripta scripta\" is another subspecies of pond sliders, and hybrids typically combine the markings of the two subspecies. However, unusual color varieties such as albino and pastel red-eared sliders, which are derived from captive breeding, are still allowed for sale.\n\nIn Australia, breeding populations have been found in New South Wales and Queensland, and individual turtles have been found in the wild in Victoria, the Australian Capital Territory and Western Australia.\n\nRed-eared slider turtles are considered a significant threat to native turtle species – they mature more quickly, grow larger, produce more offspring and are more aggressive. Numerous studies provide evidence that red-eared slider turtles can out-compete native turtles for food and nesting and basking sites. Because red-eared slider turtles eat plants as well as animals, they could also have a negative impact on a range of native aquatic species, including rare frogs. There is also a significant risk that red-eared slider turtles will transfer diseases and parasites to native reptile species. There is evidence that a malaria-like parasite was spread to two wild turtle populations in Lane Cove River, Sydney.\n\nSocial and economic costs are also likely to be substantial. The Queensland government has invested close to $1 million AUD in eradication programs to date. As outlined in the foregoing section, the turtle may also have significant public health costs due to the impacts of turtle-associated salmonella on human health. Outbreaks in multiple states and fatalities in children, associated with handling salmonella-infected turtles, have been recorded in the USA. Salmonella can also spread to humans when turtles contaminate drinking water.\n\nThere have been varying degrees of action by state governments to date, ranging from ongoing eradication efforts by the Queensland government to very little action by the government of New South Wales. Experts have ranked the species as high priority for management in Australia and are calling for a national prevention and eradication strategy, including a concerted education and compliance program to stop the illegal trade, possession and release of slider turtles.\n\nWithin the second volume of the \"Tales of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\", the popular comic book heroes were revealed as specimens of the red-eared slider. The popularity of the Turtles led to a craze for keeping them as pets in Great Britain, and subsequent ecological havoc as turtles were accidentally or deliberately released into the wild.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28080823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28080823", "title": "RedToL", "text": "RedToL\n\nRedToL, or Red Algal Tree of Life, is part of the collaborative National Science Foundation Assembling the Tree of Life activity (AToL), funded through the Division of Environmental Biology, Directorate for Biological Sciences. The overall goal of AToL is to resolve evolutionary relationships for large groups of organisms throughout the history of life, with the research often involving large teams working across institutions and disciplines. Investigators are typically supported for projects in data acquisition, analysis, algorithm development and dissemination in computational phylogenetics and phyloinformatics.\n\nThe Phylogenetic and Genomic Approaches to Reconstructing the Red Algal Tree of Life focus on the Rhodophyta (red algae), one of the most ancient eukaryotic phyla with fossil evidence for Bangiales stretching back 1.2 billion years. Red algae are not only key members of marine and freshwater aquatic environments but they are sources for important human foods such as dulse and sushi wrap, and have a multitude of pharmaceutical and industrial uses (e.g., agarose and carrageenans). Perhaps most important is the role red algae played in symbiogenesis. A red alga was the ancient (>1 billion years ago) donor of the plastid in chlorophyll c-containing algae (heterokonta or stramenophiles) that rose to prominence in marine ecosystems after the end of Permian with groups such as diatoms currently providing ca. 20% of global fixed carbon.\n\nThe aims of RedToL are: 1) reconstruct a robust phylogeny of 471 red algal species using a concatenated dataset of 2 nuclear, 4 plastid, and 2 mitochondrial encoded gene markers; 2) sequence plastid genomes and generate transcriptome databases for 16 key taxa that represent the phylogenetic (e.g., class- and order-level) breadth of the red algae, 3) make freely available red algal multi-gene and genome data via release to GenBank and a project-specific web site. The outreach and student mentoring program is an important component of the RedToL initiative.\n\nThe 471 chosen species from 294 genera represent the diversity of ca. 6,000 red algal species (i.e., ca. 35% of all red algal genera will be included, which represent all extant orders). The robust phylogenetic framework resulting from this study is the basis for a comprehensive taxonomic revision of the red algae and provides the basis for interpreting key innovations during red algal evolution. Because the chosen marker genes are shared across different Assembling the Tree of Life (AToL) projects, it will provide a common framework for a future comprehensive eukaryotic tree. Complete plastid genome and transcriptome data from 16 major red algal taxa will provide a genome inventory to facilitate understanding of red algal evolution, as well as provide the basis for phylogenetic analyses using a rich set (i.e., 100s) of vertically inherited genes. The genome data will specifically test the relationships among the major classes and orders of red algae. The RedToL team members come from eight institutions including two foreign collaborators and fifteen advisory board members and represent the most prominent active national and international red algal specialists from different generations who use different methods (from taxonomy to phylogenomics) to enhance understanding of red algal biology.\n\n"}
{"id": "26091265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26091265", "title": "Relaxado en persona", "text": "Relaxado en persona\n\nRelaxado en persona is a Spanish phrase, literally meaning \"relaxed in person\", but a euphemism for \"burnt at the stake\" in the records of the Spanish Inquisition. The majority of those \"relaxed in person\" from 1484 onwards were \"relapsos\" (relapsed Jews) or \"herejes\" (heretics, but also often Jews). Use of the term in source material continues until 1659 or later.\n\nExamples:\n\nThe noun form is \"Relajación en persona\" (literally \"relaxation in person\"), but the noun form is primarily used by historians rather than contemporaries. Historians may also use the term anachronistically, for example as in the case of the last burning in Peru, that of Mariana de Castro, Lima, 1732.\n"}
{"id": "3500773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3500773", "title": "Rotten kid theorem", "text": "Rotten kid theorem\n\nGary Becker's rotten kid theorem is a thought experiment in economics. It posits that family members, even if they are selfish, will act to help one another if their personal incentives are properly aligned. The theorem is one of the most famous theorems within family economics, and applied mechanism design.\n\nIn his original work, Becker paints a hypothetical situation in which children will receive gifts of money income from a wealthy, altruistic parent to make them happy. One of the children is a selfish, \"rotten\", child who would take pleasure in harming his sibling. However, if he chose to actually hurt his sibling, the altruistic parent would help the victim, and curtail help to the wrongdoer. That way, the altruist would function as a means of transferring utility between the rotten kid and his sibling. In the process the parent would also bring about an incentive not to wrong the sibling in the first place, because any utility robbed of the sibling would be automatically taken away from the rotten kid.\n\nThe theorem relies on multiple assumptions. First, the altruistic parent has to be wealthy enough to compensate for any wrongdoing by the rotten kid. Secondly, he has to be a pure, rational altruist, with full knowledge of the personal utility of both the rotten kid and his sibling. Thirdly, the altruist would have to be fixed in his own income. And so on.\n\nThe theorem has proven widely influential in the economic analysis of family life, and beyond that, other regarding economic institutions in general. It has done so especially in the economical analysis of unconventional and nonmonetary economic institutions, traditionally and especially in the popular sphere regarded as being outside the ambit of the economic science. Thus today it is a standard example of the novel contribution to economic literature that the so-called nonstandard economics has brought about.\n\nThe theorem can be applied to inheritance as well, in expectation. There it suggests that a parent who plans to bequeath his estate in accordance to his children's needs and equity, might want to delay until the children are older, or possibly until after his demise. This is because if parents plan to will their children money in accordance with their needs, the real outcome of their behavior over their lifetime cannot be measured beforehand. Thus, the perfect incentive for the child to behave well towards his siblings can only be realized at the very end of the altruistic parent's life. In this application, the independent earnings of the various siblings can also be taken into account, without breaking the grounding logic of the theorem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18945331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18945331", "title": "Three-act structure", "text": "Three-act structure\n\nThe three-act structure is a model used in narrative fiction that divides a story into three parts (acts), often called the Setup, the Confrontation and the Resolution.\n\nThe first act is usually used for exposition, to establish the main characters, their relationships and the world they live in. Later in the first act, a dynamic, on-screen incident occurs, known as the \"inciting incident\", or \"catalyst\", that confronts the main character (the protagonist), and whose attempts to deal with this incident lead to a second and more dramatic situation, known as the first plot point, which (a) signals the end of the first act, (b) ensures life will never be the same again for the protagonist and (c) raises a dramatic question that will be answered in the climax of the film. The dramatic question should be framed in terms of the protagonist's call to action, (Will X recover the diamond? Will Y get the girl? Will Z capture the killer?).\n\nThe second act, also referred to as \"rising action\", typically depicts the protagonist's attempt to resolve the problem initiated by the first turning point, only to find themselves in ever worsening situations. Part of the reason protagonists seem unable to resolve their problems is because they do not yet have the skills to deal with the forces of antagonism that confront them. They must not only learn new skills but arrive at a higher sense of awareness of who they are and what they are capable of, in order to deal with their predicament, which in turn changes who they are. This is referred to as \"character development\" or a \"character arc\". This cannot be achieved alone and they are usually aided and abetted by mentors and co-protagonists.\n\nThe third act features the resolution of the story and its subplots. The climax is the scene or sequence in which the main tensions of the story are brought to their most intense point and the dramatic question answered, leaving the protagonist and other characters with a new sense of who they really are.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22733383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22733383", "title": "Type scene", "text": "Type scene\n\nA type scene is a literary convention employed by a narrator across a set of scenes, or related to scenes (place, action) already familiar to the audience. The similarities with, and differences from, the established type are used to illuminate developments in plot and character. As Robert Louis Fowler wrote, \"The technique of the type-scene offers the poet a basic scaffolding, but it also allows the poet to adapt each scene for specific purposes.\"\n\nMuch of the foundational work for such analysis was by Walter Arend in his 1933 \"Die typischen Scenen bei Homer\" book on the \"Iliad\" of Homer. Later work by Robert Alter employed similar examination to parts of the Hebrew Bible, in particular to the betrothal type-scene at the well in Genesis. Another type scene that Alter identifies is the annunciation of the birth of the hero to a barren woman, such as the birth of Samson to the wife of Manoah, or the birth of Samuel to Hannah. Other scholars have suggested other type scenes in the Hebrew Bible, such as the heavenly council, theophany, prophetic concealment and the dying monarch.\n\n"}
{"id": "6197793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6197793", "title": "Undoing (psychology)", "text": "Undoing (psychology)\n\nUndoing is a defense mechanism in which a person tries to cancel out or remove an unhealthy, destructive or otherwise threatening thought or action by engaging in contrary behavior. For example, after thinking about being violent with someone, one would then be overly nice or accommodating to them. It is one of several defense mechanisms proposed by the founder of psychoanalysis Sigmund Freud during his career, many of which were later developed further by his daughter Anna Freud. The German term \"Ungeschehenmachen\" was first used to describe this defense mechanism. When translated, it literally means \"making un-happen\", which is essentially the core of \"undoing\". Undoing refers to the phenomenon whereby a person tries to alter the past in some way to avoid or feign disappearance of an adversity or mishap.\n\nFreud first described the practice of undoing in his 1909 \"Notes upon a Case of Obsessional Neurosis\". Here he recounted how his patient (the \"Rat Man\") first removed a stone from the road in case his lady's carriage should overturn upon it, and thereafter 'felt \"obliged\" to go back and replace the stone in its original position in the middle of the road'. Freud argued that his 'undoing this deed of love by replacing the stone where...her carriage might come to grief against it...was determined by a motive contrary to that which produced the first part' by hate, not love.\n\nIt was two decades later in 1926 that he formalised the ego defense as' \"undoing what has been done\"...it is, as it were, negative magic, and endeavours, by means of motor symbolism, to \"blow away\" not merely the \"consequences\" of some event (or experience or impression) but the event itself'. Freud then went on to use '\"undoing\" what has been done...[as] good enough grounds for re-introducing the old concept of \"defence\", which can cover all these processes that have the same purpose—namely the protection of the ego against instinctual demands'—one of the major technical advances of his later years.\n\nThe first psychoanalytic half-century saw several writers exploring the concept of undoing in Freud's wake. Anna Freud listed it among the ego mechanisms; Ernest Jones and Ella Freeman Sharpe both wrote articles linking it with 'actions and attitudes aimed at the undoing of imaginative destructions. Strivings for reparation may...be the main motive'. Otto Fenichel devoted a substantial section of his \"mechanism of defense\" to summarizing past work in his encyclopedic \"Theory of Neurosis\": he was especially interested in how 'the undoing sometimes does not consist in a compulsion to do the opposite of what has been done previously but in a compulsion to repeat the very same act...with the opposite unconscious meaning'.\n\nThe second half of the twentieth century saw little new theoretical or creative work around the concept. Jean Laplanche and J. B. Pontalis laid stress on how 'Undoing in the pathological sense is directed at the act's very reality, and the aim is to suppress it absolutely, as though time were reversed'. \"The Freud encyclopedia\" highlighted how 'Acts of expiation can be seen as forms of \"undoing\"; George Eman Vaillant placed undoing among the neurotic defenses in his hierarchy of defense mechanisms.\n\nMelanie Klein in her early work had written of undoing in terms of a kind of magical reparation: 'a tendency to \"undo harm\" and put objects to right magically'. Later, however, she would use it in terms of a kind of ego disintegration—'a process of undoing, or what she called \"a falling into bits\"'—and it was in this latter, rather different sense of the term that later Kleinians would tend to use it: 'an invitation to dissolution and undoing...leaving the mental field open for enactment and horror'.\n\nThere is a proposal that speaks specifically about the automaticity of this counter factual thinking. This theory, as stipulated by Medvec, Madey and Gilovich (1995) states that Undoing can occur as an automatic response to a situation. Their findings involved Olympic Silver Medalists who were less happy about their achievement than the bronze medalists, even though it is known that Silver medalists have a higher honor. To the individuals, the Silver Medal represented how close they were to winning which is worse than being awarded bronze, which signified how close they were to not having a placement at all. This suggests that the counterfactual thinking was a sort of implicit way of control and was not actually deliberately employed as a mechanism.\n\nUndoing can be used to 'explain away' habits or behaviors that are not in line with an individual's personality. For example, in the case of a person who is well organised in the workplace, yet always forgets to pay bills on time at home, Freudian psychologists could argue that his tardiness with bills is an undoing of his desire to be orderly, or vice versa. Freud has been criticized regarding examples such as this because his theory is so complicated that most problems can be explained by another part of the theory.\n\nFor some people undoing can be used to reduce cognitive dissonance, the uncomfortable feeling created when an attitude and an action, or two attitudes are in conflict with one another.\n\nIn criminal profiling the term refers to a pattern of behavior by which an offender tries to undo their crime symbolically, e.g. by painting the face of a person killed by the perpetrator, covering up and decorating the corpse with flowers, personal belongings and jewelry, or folding the hands, imitating a laying-out.\n\nHappiness, joy, love, excitement are all positive emotions and there is no arguing that these emotions contribute in large to how we act, how we think, and what we do. In contrast there are also negative feelings such as sadness that can lead us to act in certain ways that may not necessarily be good. Studies have been performed that have shown that positive emotions can be used to \"correct\" or \"undo\" the effects of negative emotions. Barbara Fredrickson and Robert Levenson have come up with the undoing hypothesis. In essence what the hypothesis states is that people might hold in the effects of their positive emotions to counterbalance the effects of their negative emotions.\nOverall positive emotions help lower the potentially health-damaging cardiovascular reactivity that lingers following negative emotions. This effect may be especially important for those most at risk for developing coronary heart disease.\n\nNegative emotions, including anger and fear, can be seen as the evolution of human adaptation to survival in life-threatening situations. For example, anger shows the sign of attack, fear shows the sign of escape. These emotional reactions interconnect with our mind and body. These negative emotions are influenced by the physiological support mechanisms, such as the physical energy, that relies on the body to mobilize at an optimal level for individual action to react. In the attack or flee situation, it produces heightened cardiovascular re-activity that redistributes blood flow to relevant skeletal muscles. However, in extreme cases, negative emotions will cause damage to people's health in their cardiovascular re-activity.\n\nUndoing is tentatively classified at the \"Mental inhibitions (compromise formation) level\" in DSM-IV-TR's proposed Defensive Functioning Scale (under Appendix B, \"Criteria Sets and Axes Provided for Further Study.\")\n\n"}
{"id": "2026886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2026886", "title": "Āstika and nāstika", "text": "Āstika and nāstika\n\nĀstika (Sanskrit आस्तिक IAST: āstika) derives from the Sanskrit \"asti\", \"there is, there exists\", and means “one who believes in the existence (of God, of another world, etc.)” and nāstika means \"an atheist or unbeliever\" . These have been concepts used to classify Indian philosophies by modern scholars, and some Hindu, Buddhist and Jaina texts. \"Āstika\" has been defined in one of three ways; as those who accept the epistemic authority of the Vedas, as those who accept the existence of ātman, or as those who accept the existence of \"Ishvara\". In contrast, \"nāstika\" are those who deny the respective definitions of \"āstika\".\n\nThe various definitions for \"āstika\" and \"nāstika\" philosophies has been disputed since ancient times, and there is no consensus. Buddhism is considered to be \"nāstika\", but the Gautama Buddha is considered an avatar of Vishnu in some Hindu traditions.\nThe most studied Āstika schools of Indian philosophies, sometimes referred to as orthodox schools, are six: Nyāyá, Vaiśeṣika, Sāṃkhya, Yoga, Mīmāṃsā, and Vedānta. The most studied Nāstika schools of Indian philosophies, sometimes referred to as heterodox schools, are four: Buddhism, Jainism, Cārvāka, and Ājīvika. This orthodox-heterodox terminology is a construct of Western languages, and lacks scholarly roots in Sanskrit. Recent scholarly studies state that there have been various heresiological translations of Āstika and Nāstika in 20th century literature on Indian philosophies, but quite many are unsophisticated and flawed.\n\nAstika and Nāstika do not mean \"theism\" and \"atheism\" respectively in ancient or medieval era Sanskrit literature. In current Indian languages like Hindi, \"āstika\" and its derivatives usually mean \"theist\", while \"nāstika\" and its derivatives denote an \"atheist.” However, the terms are used differently in Hindu philosophy. For example, \"Sāṃkhya\" is both an atheist and \"āstika\" (Vedic) philosophy.\n\n\"Āstika\" is a Sanskrit adjective (and noun) that is derived from \"asti\" (\"there is or exists\"). meaning \"knowing that which exists\" or \"pious\"; \"Nāstika\" (\"na\" (not) + \"\") is its negative.\n\nOne of the traditional etymologies of the term \"āstika\"–based on Pāṇini's \"Aṣṭādhyāyī\",\n4.4.60 (\"astināstidiṣṭam matiḥ\") says ‘he whose opinion is that Īśvara exists’ (\"asti īśvara iti matir yasya\"). Other definitions include \"opposite of \"nāstika\"\" (\"nāstika bhinna\"); \"he whose idea is that Īśvara exists\" (\"īśvara asti iti vādī\"); \"he who considers the Vedas as authorities\" (\"vedaprāmāṇyavādī\"). According to Sanskrit grammarian Hemachandra, \"āstika\" is a synonym for ‘he who believes’.\n\nAs used in Hindu philosophy, the differentiation between \"āstika\" and \"nāstika\" does not refer to theism or atheism. The terms often, but not always, relate to accepting Vedic literature as an authority, particularly on their teachings on Self (Soul). The Veda and Hinduism do not subscribe to or include the concept of an almighty that is separate from oneself i.e. there is no concept of God in the Christian or Islamic sense. N. N. Bhattacharya writes:\nĀstika is also a name, such as that of a Vedic scholar born to the goddess Mānasā (\"Mind\") and the sage Jaratkaru.\n\nThe terms Āstika and Nāstika have been used to classify various Indian intellectual traditions.\n\nA list of six systems or \"ṣaḍdarśana\"s (also spelled \"Sad Darshan\") consider Vedas as a reliable source of knowledge and an authoritative source. These are the Nyaya, Vaisheshika, Samkhya, Yoga, Mīmāṃsā and Vedanta schools of Hinduism, and they are classified as the \"āstika\" schools:\n\n\nThese are often coupled into three groups for both historical and conceptual reasons: Nyāyá-Vaiśeṣika, Sāṃkhya-Yoga, and Mimāṃsā-Vedanta.\n\nThe main schools of Indian philosophy that reject the Vedas were regarded as heterodox in the Brahmanical tradition:\n\n\nThe use of the term \"nāstika\" to describe Buddhism and Jainism in India is explained by Gavin Flood as follows:\n\nTantric traditions in Hinduism have both \"āstika\" and \"nāstika\" lines; as Banerji writes in \"Tantra in Bengal\":\n\nManusmriti, in verse 2.11, defines Nāstika as those who revile \"Vedic literature based on two roots of science of reasoning (Śruti and Smriti)\". The 9th century Indian scholar Medhatithi analyzed this definition and stated that Nāstika does not mean someone who says \"Vedic literature are untrue\", but rather one who says \"Vedic literature are immoral\". Medhatithi further noted verse 8.309 of Manusmriti, to provide another aspect of the definition of Nāstika as one who believes, \"there is no other world, there is no purpose in giving charity, there is no purpose in rituals and the teachings in the Vedic literature.\"\n\nManusmriti does not define, or imply a definition for Astika. It is also silent or contradictory on specific rituals such as animal sacrifices, asserting Ahimsa (non-violence, non-injury) is dharma in its verses such as verse 10.63 based on Upanishadic layer of Vedic literature, even though the older layer of Vedic literature mention such sacrifices unlike the later layer of Vedic literature. Indian scholars, such as those from Samkhya, Yoga, Nyaya and Vedanta schools, accepted Astika to be those that include \"Śabda\" (शब्द, \"Aptavacana\", testimony of Vedic literature and reliable experts) as a reliable means of epistemology, but they accepted the later ancient layer of the Vedic literature to be superseding the earlier ancient layer.\n\nIn contrast to Manusmiriti, the 6th century CE Jain scholar and doxographer Haribhadra, provided a different perspective in his writings on Astika and Nāstika. Haribhadra did not consider \"reverence for Vedas\" as a marker for an Astika. He and other 1st millennium CE Jaina scholars defined Astika as one who \"affirms there exists another world, transmigration exists, virtue (\"punya\") exists, vice (\"paap\") exists\".\n\nThe 7th century scholars Jayaditya and Vamana, in \"Kasikavrtti\" of Pāṇini tradition, were silent on the role of or authority of Vedic literature in defining Astika and Nāstika. They state, \"Astika is the one who believes there exists another world. The opposite of him is the Nāstika.\"\n\nSimilarly the widely studied 2nd-3rd century CE Buddhist philosopher Nagarjuna, in Chapter 1 verses 60-61 of Ratnāvalī, wrote Vaiśeṣika and Sāṃkhya schools of Hinduism were Nāstika, along with Jainism, his own school of Buddhism and Pudgalavadins (Vātsīputrīya) school of Buddhism.\n\nAstika, in some texts, is defined as those who believe in the existence of \"Atman\" (Soul, Self, Spirit), while Nastika being those who deny there is any \"soul, self\" in human beings and other living beings. All six schools of Hinduism classified as Astika philosophies hold the premise, \"Atman exists\". Buddhism, in contrast, holds the premise, \"Atman does not exist\". Asanga Tilakaratna translates Astika as \"positivism\" and Nastika as \"negativism\", with Astika illustrated by Brahmanic traditions who accepted \"soul and God exists\", while Nastika as those traditions, such as Buddhism, who denied \"soul and God exists\".\n\nAccording to G. S. Ghurye, the Jain texts define \"na+astika\" as one \"denying what exists\" or any school of philosophy that denies the existence of the soul. The Vedanta sub-traditions of Hinduism are \"astika\" because they accept the existence of soul, while Buddhist traditions denying this are referred to as \"nastika\".\n\nOne of the earliest mentions of \"astika\" concept in Jain texts is by Manibhadra, who states that an \"astika\" is one who \"accepts there exist another world (\"paraloka\"), transmigration of soul, virtue and vice that affect how a soul journeys through time\".\n\nThe 5th–6th century Jainism scholar Haribhadra, states Andrew Nicholson, does not mention anything about accepting or rejecting the Vedas or god as a criterion for being an \"astika\" or \"nastika\". Instead, Haribhadra explains \"nastika\" in the manner of the more ancient Jain scholar Manibhadra, by stating a nastika to be one \"who says there is no other worlds, there is no purpose in charity, there is no purpose in offerings\". An \"astika\", to Haribhadra, is one who believes that there is a purpose and merit in an ethical life such as \"ahimsa\" (non-violence) and ritual actions. This exposition of the word \"astika\" and \"nastika\" by Haribhadra is similar to one by the Sanskrit grammarian and Hindu scholar Pāṇini in section 4.4.60 of the \"Astadhyayi\".\n\nThe 12th century Jaina scholar Hemachandra similarly states, in his text \"Abhidhana Cintamani\", that a \"nastika\" is any philosophy that presumes or argues there is \"no virtue and vice\".\n\nNagarjuna, according to Chandradhar Sharma, equates \"Nastikya\" to \"nihilism\".\n\nThe 4th century Buddhist scholar Asanga, in \"Bodhisattva Bhumi\", calls \"nastika Buddhists\" as \"sarvavai nasika\", describing them as who are complete deniers. To Asanga, \"nastika\" are those who say \"nothing whatsoever exists\", and the worst kind of \"nastika\" are those who deny all designation and reality. Astika are those who accept merit in and practice a religious life. According to Andrew Nicholson, later Buddhists understood Asanga to be targeting Madhyamaka Buddhism as \"nastika\", while considering his own Yogacara Buddhist tradition to be \"astika\". Initial interpretations of the Buddhist texts with the term \"astika\" and \"nastika\", such as those composed by Nagarjuna and Asvaghosa, were interpreted as being directed at the Hindu traditions. But, states John Kelly, most later scholarship considers this as incorrect, and that the \"astika\" and \"nastika\" terms were directed towards the competing Buddhist traditions and the intended audience of the texts were Buddhist monks debating an array of ideas across various Buddhist traditions.\n\nThe charges of being a \"nastika\" were serious threat to the social standing of a Buddhist, and could lead to expulsion from Buddhist monastic community. Thus, states Nicholson, the colonial era Indologist definition of astika and nastika schools of Indian philosophy, was based on a narrow study of literature such as a version of \"Manusmriti\", while in truth these terms are more complex and contextually apply within the diverse schools of Indian philosophies.\n\nThe most common meaning of astika and nastika, in Buddhism, Hinduism and Jainism was the acceptance and adherence to ethical premises, and not textual validity or doctrinal premises, states Nicholson. It is likely that astika was translated as orthodox, and nastika as heterodox, because the early European Indologists carried the baggage of Christian theological traditions and extrapolated their own concepts to Asia, thereby distorting the complexity of Indian traditions and thought.\n\n"}
