{"id": "32654456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32654456", "title": "Alexander Javakhishvili", "text": "Alexander Javakhishvili\n\nAlexander Nikolayevich Javakhishvili () born 5 August 1875 (Old Style Julian Calendar), 17 August 1875 (New Style Gregorian Calendar) in Gori, Georgia – died January 22, 1973, Tbilisi, Georgia) was a Georgian geographer and anthropologist.\n\nProfessor A. N. Javakhishvili was one of the oldest geographers and anthropologists in the Soviet Union. He was the founder of Soviet Georgian geography which, under him, developed into a school.\nHis qualifications and awards include Doctor of Geographical Sciences (1937), recognition as an Academician of the Georgian Academy of Sciences (1944), a Merited Scientist, an honorary member of the USSR Geographic Society, and winner of a State Prize of the Georgian SSR.\n\nJavakhishvili was born on 5 August (17 August New Style), 1875, in the town of Gori, into a government official's family. Javakhishvili began his schooling in Tbilisi at the Georgian Gymnasium for sons of the gentry.\n\nLeaving the Georgian Gymnasium in 1887, he pursued his studies at the Second Classical Gymnasium for Boys in Tbilisi. In 1895 he completed the course, winning a gold medal and the right to a state grant at Moscow University where he became a student of physics and mathematics in its sub-department of Natural Sciences.\n\nIn 1900 Javakhishvili graduated from the Department of Physics and Mathematics with honours and was invited to remain at the University to prepare for a professorship. As early as in 1899 he began to work as an assistant in organic chemistry in which he was particularly interested at the time.\n\nHis research, to which he devoted many years of his life, solved the cardinal problems of anthropology of the contemporary population of the Caucasus; the results of his investigations became widely known in the scientific world. He was a born scientist, and, owing to his exceptional purposefulness, his numerous works covered almost all the geographical problems of Georgia: geomorphology, cartography, the geographical distribution of the population, problems dealing with various peculiarities of the land and its people, and the varied terrain of the country; neither did the history of geography of Georgia escape his attention.\n\nThe theoretical works of Javakhishvili are a significant contribution to Soviet geographical science; among these are publications devoted to the structure of this science, to the interrelations between sciences composing general geography and to their links with adjacent sciences, making part of the geography of the Earth.\n\nThe amount of work Javakhishvili did for the benefit of science and knowledge is more than one man could normally be expected to do; therefore he can be regarded, together with Vakhushti Bagrationi, as the founder of geography in Georgia.\n\nIn 1955 the Ministry of Education of the Georgian SSR awarded Javakhishvili the badge\n\"Excellent Educationalist\". The Soviet Government highly appreciated Javakhishvili's scientific and public activities and awarded him the Order of Lenin, the Order of the Red Banner of Labour twice, and the Medal \"For Conspicuous Service during the Great Patriotic War of 1941 — 1945\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "998545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=998545", "title": "American West Indies", "text": "American West Indies\n\nAmerican West Indies is the geographic region that includes Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Navassa (although disputed by Haiti).\n\n"}
{"id": "55309093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55309093", "title": "Angra Toldo", "text": "Angra Toldo\n\nAngra Toldo is a village in Caué District on São Tomé Island in São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 433 (2012 census). It is located on the coast, northeast of São João dos Angolares and southwest of Ribeira Afonso. \n"}
{"id": "15678569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15678569", "title": "Arctic Basin", "text": "Arctic Basin\n\nThe Arctic Basin (also North Polar Basin) is an oceanic basin in the Arctic Ocean, consisting of two main parts separated by the Lomonosov Ridge, a mid-ocean ridge running between north Greenland and the New Siberian Islands. The basin is bordered by the continental shelves of Eurasia and North America.\n\n\nThere was an expedition to the North Polar Basin by Fridtjof Nansen and Otto Sverdrup in the \"Fram\" in 1893–1896. Roald Amundsen sailed across the North Polar Basin between 1922 and 1924.\n\n"}
{"id": "55236731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55236731", "title": "Aves Ridge", "text": "Aves Ridge\n\nThe Aves Ridge is a ridge in the eastern Caribbean Sea. It runs in a north-south direction, approximately 250 km west of the Lesser Antilles Volcanic Arc. It is mostly under water, but it reaches the surface in the north as Aves Island and in the south as Blanquilla Island. Most geologists believe that the Aves Ridge originated as an volcanic arc which is now extinct, though its width poses a problem; the date of its origin is generally placed in the Cretaceous.\n"}
{"id": "17554500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17554500", "title": "Biophysical environment", "text": "Biophysical environment\n\nA biophysical environment is a biotic and abiotic surrounding of an organism or population, and consequently includes the factors that have an influence in their survival, development, and evolution. A biophysical environment can vary in scale from microscopic to global in extent. It can also be subdivided according to its attributes. Examples include the marine environment, the atmospheric environment and the terrestrial environment. The number of biophysical environments is countless, given that each living organism has its own environment.\n\nThe term \"environment\" can refer to a singular global environment in relation to humanity, or a local biophysical environment, e.g. the UK's Environment Agency.\n\nAll life that has survived must have adapted to conditions of its environment. Temperature, light, humidity, soil nutrients, etc., all influence any species, within any environment. However life in turn modifies, in various forms, its conditions. Some long term modifications along the history of our planet have been significant, such as the incorporation of oxygen to the atmosphere. This process consisted in the breakdown of carbon dioxide by anaerobic microorganisms that used the carbon in their metabolism and released the oxygen to the atmosphere. This led to the existence of oxygen-based plant and animal life, the great oxygenation event. Other interactions are more immediate and simple, such as the smoothing effect that forests have on the temperature cycle, compared to neighboring unforested areas.\n\nEnvironmental science is the study of the interactions within the biophysical environment. Part of this scientific discipline is the investigation of the effect of human activity on the environment. Ecology, a sub-discipline of biology and a part of environmental sciences, is often mistaken as a study of human induced effects on the environment. Environmental studies is a broader academic discipline that is the systematic study of interaction of humans with their environment. It is a broad field of study that includes the natural environment, built environments and social environments.\n\nEnvironmentalism is a broad social and philosophical movement that, in a large part, seeks to minimise and compensate the negative effect of human activity on the biophysical environment. The issues of concern for environmentalists usually relate to the natural environment with the more important ones being climate change, species extinction, pollution, and old growth forest loss.\n\nOne of the studies related include employing Geographic Information Science to study the biophysical environment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2336453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2336453", "title": "BirdLife International", "text": "BirdLife International\n\nBirdLife International (formerly the International Council for Bird Preservation) is a global partnership of conservation organisations that strives to conserve birds, their habitats, and global biodiversity, working with people towards sustainability in the use of natural resources. It is the world's largest partnership of conservation organisations, with over 120 partner organisations.\n\nIt has a membership of more than 2.5 million people and partner organizations in more than 100 countries. Major partners include Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, the Wild Bird Society of Japan, and the U.S. National Audubon Society. The group’s headquarters are located in Cambridge, UK.\n\nBirdLife International’s priorities include preventing extinction of bird species, identifying and safeguarding important sites for birds, maintaining and restoring key bird habitats, and empowering conservationists worldwide. Guided by a global council, member organizations implement the group’s strategies on local, regional, and national levels.\n\nBirdLife International has identified 7,500 important bird areas and manages more than 2,500,000 million acres (1,000,000 hectares) of wildlife habitat. As the official listing authority for birds for the World Conservation Union’s Red List of threatened species, BirdLife International has identified more than 1,000 bird species threatened with extinction and has developed conservation strategies for each of them.\n\nBirdLife International is a worldwide alliance of nongovernmental organizations that promotes the conservation of birds and their habitats. BirdLife International was founded in 1922 as the \"International Council for Bird Preservation\" by American ornithologists T. Gilbert Pearson and Jean Theodore Delacour under the name International Committee for Bird Protection. The group was renamed International Committee for Bird Preservation in 1928, International Council for Bird Preservation in 1960, and BirdLife International in 1994. It changed its name in 1993 to \"BirdLife International\".\n\nBirdLife International has conservation work programmes in the following parts of the world, which it describes as \"regions\" - Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe and Central Asia, the Middle East and the Pacific.\n\nThere are about 120 regional partners of BirdLife International, including:\n\n\nWithin each of these regions, BirdLife has nine programmes - some are well established, others are more recent and responding to specific conservation issues. In addition to the regional programmes, there are \"global\" programmes, not specific to a region. Together these programmes help the partnership to focus and work on common priorities. They provide the framework for planning, implementing, monitoring and evaluating conservation work. BirdLife programmes are:\n\nBirdLife International publishes a quarterly magazine, \" BirdLife - The Magazine\", which contains recent news and authoritative articles about birds, their habitats, and their conservation around the world.\n\nBirdLife International is the official Red List authority for birds, for the International Union for Conservation of Nature. As of 2015, BirdLife has established that 1,375 bird species (13% of the total, or roughly one in eight) are threatened with extinction (in the categories of critically endangered, endangered or vulnerable).\n\n"}
{"id": "42543686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42543686", "title": "Bremer Marine Park", "text": "Bremer Marine Park\n\nThe Bremer Marine Park (formerly Bremer Commonwealth Marine Reserve) is a 4472 km marine protected area, with a depth range of about 15–5000 m, lying in the Southern Ocean off the southern coast of Western Australia about 50 km south-east of the town of Bremer Bay. An area of 284 km, comprising the northernmost section adjoining Western Australia’s coastal waters, has been zoned as a marine national park (IUCN Category II), with the remainder as multiple use or special purpose zones (IUCN Category VI).\n\nIt was gazetted in 14 December 2013 and was renamed on 11 October 2017.\n\nThe marine park provides important seasonal calving habitat for southern right whales as well as supporting migrating humpback whales. It is a foraging area for Australian sea lions, Indian yellow-nosed albatrosses, flesh-footed shearwaters, soft-plumaged petrels and great white sharks. It also encompasses Bremer Canyon, a submarine canyon known as a biodiversity hotspot supporting seasonal aggregations of sperm and killer whales.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6757511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6757511", "title": "Brisker", "text": "Brisker\n\nBrisker () is Rabbinic name and Jewish surname of:\n"}
{"id": "4229981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4229981", "title": "Catalog Service for the Web", "text": "Catalog Service for the Web\n\nCatalog Service for the Web (CSW), sometimes seen as Catalog Service - Web, is a standard for exposing a catalogue of geospatial records in XML on the Internet (over HTTP). The catalogue is made up of records that describe geospatial data (e.g. KML), geospatial services (e.g. WMS), and related resources.\n\nCSW is one part (or \"profile\") of the OGC Catalog Service, which defines common interfaces to discover, browse, and query metadata about data, services, and other potential resources. Version 2.0 of the specification was released in May 2004. The most recent release is 2.0.2, which was published in 2007. \n\nThe records are in XML according to the standard. Typically the records include Dublin Core, ISO 19139 or FGDC metadata, encoded in UTF-8 characters. Each record must contain certain core fields including: Title, Format, Type (e.g. Dataset, DatasetCollection or Service), BoundingBox (a rectangle of interest, expressed in latitude and longitude), Coordinate Reference System, and Association (a link to another metadata record).\n\nOperations defined by the CSW standard include:\n\nRequests can encode the parameters in three different ways:\n\nResponses are in XML.\n\nGeoServer implements many OGC standards, including CSW. An example of the codice_2 operation is as follows:\nA (truncated) response:\n\nVersions 2.0.0, 2.0.1 and 2.0.2 are subtly different, and different vendors implement them with variations. Typically a CSW server will accept requests in one CSW version only, and it is up to the client to be flexible. e.g. ESRI Geoportal can be configured to harvest documents from CSW servers of a variety of versions and vendor variants such as \"GeoNetwork CSW 2.0.2 APISO\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51982941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51982941", "title": "Central Swedish ice-edge zone", "text": "Central Swedish ice-edge zone\n\nThe central Swedish ice-edge zone was formed when the melting of inland ice slowed down during a cold period approximately 12,000 years ago and the ice edge stood relatively still for around 800 years. This occurred during the Younger Dryas period. The two main terminal moraines of this zone are the Skövde and Billigen ones. These two terminal moraines form parallel and semicontinuous ridges spanning from the Västgöta plains though the Östgöta plains to the Stockholm archipelago.\n\n"}
{"id": "6284425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6284425", "title": "Climate of Peru", "text": "Climate of Peru\n\nThe climate of Peru is very diverse, with a large variety of climates and microclimates, including 28 of the 32 world climates. Such a diversity is chiefly conditioned by the presence of the Andes mountains and the cold Humboldt Current\nThe climate on the coast is arid and semi-arid with high temperatures and very little rainfall. The Andes mountains observe a cool-to-cold climate with rainy summers and very dry winter. The eastern lowlands present an Equatorial climate with hot weather and rain distributed all year long.\n\nThe climate of the coast ranges from warm-semiarid (north of 10°S, and thus very close to the equator) to a climate which is a bit like the Mediterranean (Köppen Csb) climate with an important difference — the winter, although cloudy and cool, does not have sufficient rainfall to be considered a Köppen C climate.\n\nThe high coastal climate is mostly determined by the influence of the cold Humboldt Current, which runs parallel to the Peruvian coast, blocking the possibility of precipitation coming from the Ocean. Should this current be warm instead, the presence of the Andes would suffice for high amounts of orographic precipitation, such as registered in the top north and south part of the South American coastal Andes.\nThe temperature extremes of the northern coast (3°S–6°S) range from . Summers are characterized by hot and sunny conditions, with occasional afternoon and nocturnal light rainshowers. The farther north, the less arid, due to the Humboldt Current getting less cold as it nears the Equator. Thus, the Tumbes Region, bordering Ecuador, is the only coastal one with regular seasonal precipitation.\n\nSummer rainfall totals rarely exceed , save for severe El Niño events, which can provoke major floodings, with precipitations which can be as high as , especially in the readings observed over the entire Peruvian coast; the aforementioned Tumbes region and Piura are the hottest. Winter is characterized by warm yet comfortable conditions and absence of rain.\n\nIn the central and southern coasts (south of 6°S) temperature ranges from and rainfall is scarce with annual totals are 150 mm. Summer is characterized by warm, moist and sunny conditions with lows between and highs are between . Temperatures over are commonly observed less than 12 days per year except at the Ica deserts where summer highs can sometimes reach . Little or no rainfall occurs during the summer. Very rare rainfall events are produced by the leftovers of Andean convection and occur during the night. Summer rainfall totals are generally less than .\n\nWinter is characterized by overcast, cool and damp conditions, which keep daytime temperatures cool. Strictly by the coast and a few kilometers inland, winter is determined by an almost permanent layer of fog, which creates \"garua\", a particular mist own to coastal Peru and Chile. In those areas located right by the ocean, the so-called 'rainy season' develops by late May and comes to an end by mid October. Precipitation occurs in the form of nocturnal-morning drizzle and seasonal totals range between . Winter precipitation favors the development of vegetation over particular coastal mountain ranges known as \"Lomas\". The desert green-up peaks between July and early November.\n\nTemperatures range from at night and during the day. Winter highs oscillate between and the lows between . Several weeks of persistent overcast skies and highs below are not uncommon between July and September.\n\nSome representative weather station averages:\n\nThe Peruvian Andes (\"clima de Sierra\" in Spanish) exhibits the largest diversity among the country. Temperature is proportional to altitude, varying from temperate (annual average of ) in the low-lying valleys to frigid (annual average below ) in the highest elevations. The maximum temperature is often steady throughout the year, the low varying due to the presence of clouds in the rainy season, which help keeping to some extent the daytime heat during the night. In the absence of clouds, nights are much colder.\n\nPrecipitation varies in different scales and has a marked seasonality. The rainy season starts in September but peaks between January and March, whereas the May–August part of the year is characterized by strong insolation, very dry conditions and cold nights and mornings, which is almost the exact reverse, in terms of insolation, to the coast climate. There is a marked southwest-northeast rainfall gradient with the driest conditions ( per year) along the southwestern Andes, and the wettest conditions along the eastern slopes (> per year). Upon the interaction between the topography and the mean flow, some regions immediately east of the Andes can receive as much as per year. Rainfall is also larger over mountain ranges than over valley floors, since most of the rainfall occurs in the form of afternoon convective storms. Lakes also modulate the distribution and rainfall amounts. Lake Titicaca, for example, induces nocturnal convective storms that produce twice as much rainfall over the lake than over the surrounding terrain. Occasionally thunderstorms can be accompanied by frequent cloud to ground lightning, strong winds and damaging hail, especially during the onset of the rainy season and over higher elevations. Snowfall is frequent above during the rainy season, and occasional above between May and August.\n\nSome representative averages\n\nThe eastern lowlands are characterized by the Equatorial climate which feeds the Amazon Rainforest. The climate of this region is hot and rainy most of the year. Temperatures oscillate between most of the year and rainfall varies between per year. South of 8°S, a short dry season occurs between June and August. Occasional cold surges that originate over Argentina may lower the temperature to . These events occur 1–5 times per year between May and September.\n\nSome representative averages:\n\n\nFrom April to July 2009, unusually cold weather resulted in the deaths of more than 100 children under the age of five. In June, there were 50,000 suffering from acute respiratory infections, and 4,851 with pneumonia. Between mid April and mid June, 61 children perished. The United Nations Population Fund reported over 13,500 cases of pneumonia, and more than 60,000 cases of respiratory infections. The Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA) is distributing blankets and warm clothing. Whereas pneumonia cases resulting in death of infants (who are often underclothed, if not barefoot) are the norm during winter, the 2009 winter season was unusual in that it began 12 weeks earlier than usual. More than 80 of the deaths occurred in Puno, Peru, one of the larger cities of the Altiplano lying in the central Andes. The children suffering from malnourishment are the population at greatest risk in an impoverished southern area of Peru lacking health care facilities.\n\nYehude Simon, presidential Cabinet Chief, reported that 27 million S/ or US$9 million was allotted for Puno and 23,230 vaccine doses were shipped out. Oscar Ugarte, the Health Minister reported that only 234 of these vaccines were administered. Carmen Vildoso, Minister of Women's Affairs is working at developing a program to create solar panel heated walls in residential homes to provide heating.\n\nIn June, Percy Zaga Bustinza, Director of Puno's Social Development reported that a new Pinaya health centre would be opening up and also a small hospital in Santa Lucia. UNICEF would like action taken so that the deaths from the predictable cold weather can be prevented. As well preventative measures should be put in place so that the cold weather does not arise in an emergency situation anymore. School hours were modified for the children's school days so they are not out in the coldest part of the day. By the middle of June, livestock and crops had been adversely affected by the cold weather across of land. In July 2009, a state of emergency was declared by President of Peru Alan García Pérez in 11 regions of Peru: Apurímac, Arequipa, Ayacucho, Cusco, Huancavelica, Junín, Lima, Moquegua, Pasco, Puno and Tacna. The cold winter weather is expected to end in September.\n\nIn July 2010, the Peruvian government declared a state of emergency in 16 of Peru's 24 regions due to cold weather. The majority of the areas affected are in the south, where temperatures have dropped to as low as -24C. Lima recorded its lowest temperatures in 38 years at 9C, and emergency measures have been applied to several of its outlying districts. In the Amazon region temperatures dropped to as low as 9C, the fifth recorded cold spell this year. In the south, hundreds of people - nearly half of them very young children - are reported as having died of cold-related diseases such as pneumonia, and poor rural populations living at more than 3,000m above sea level being the most affected.\n"}
{"id": "1251637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1251637", "title": "Community Identification Number", "text": "Community Identification Number\n\nThe Official Municipality Key, formerly also known as the Official Municipality Characteristic Number or Municipality Code Number, is a number sequence for the identification of politically independent municipalities or unincorporated areas. Other classifications for the identification of areas include postal codes, NUTS codes or FIPS codes.\n00923105059929\n\nThe municipality identifier consists of five digits in Austria, which are generated as follows: The designates the number of the Austrian state, the designate the district, and the designate the municipality.\n\n : Rappottenstein\n\n\n\n\n\nSee Code officiel géographique.\n\nIn Germany the Official Municipality Key serves statistical purposes and is issued by the statistics offices of individual German states. The municipality key is to be indicated in instances such as changing residence on the notice of departure or registration documents. This is done at the registration office in every town's city hall.\n\nThe municipality key consists of eight digits, which are generated as follows: The designate the individual German state. The designates the government district (in areas without government districts a zero is used instead). The designate the number of the urban area (in a district-free city) or the district (in a city with districts). The indicate the municipality or the number of the unincorporated area.\n\n : Stuttgart\n\n\n\n\n\nUsually known as the municipal code or , the number comprises nine digits rrppmmbbb, for which rr = region code, pp = province code, code, bbb = barangay code.\n\nFor example, the municipality of Ubay, Bohol has a code of 071246000 meaning region 07 (Central Visayas), province 12 (Bohol), municipality 46 (Ubay) with barangay code of zero signifying \"not at this level.\" Bongbong, one of its constituent barangays, has a code of 071246007.\n\nThe province code is unique and is independent of the region code. All PSGCs, are therefore, unique.\n\nThe Swiss Federal Statistical Office generates code numbers with up to four digits, which are sequentially assigned in accordance with the official order of the cantons, districts, and municipalities.\n\nA kommunkod (municipal code) is a numerical code given to all Swedish municipalities by the Swedish tax authorities. The code consists of four digits, the first two indicating which county the municipality is situated in, and the last two specific for the municipality.\n\nThe code system was introduced with the municipal reform of 1952. There were three different categories of municipalities at the time, which affected the number that they were allocated. Those with stad-status (cities) were given codes ending in 80 to 99, smaller towns (köping) 60 to 79 and rural municipalities 01 to 59. The county seats were allocated codes ending in 80.\n\nAs part of the reform in the early 1970s, the categorization of municipalities was abolished, but the code was in most cases preserved. When several municipalities were merged, the code for the biggest municipality was kept.\n\n"}
{"id": "2414625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2414625", "title": "Crocker Range National Park", "text": "Crocker Range National Park\n\nCrocker Range National Park () was established in 1984, although the area had previously been under protection as a forest reserve. It covers the north-south Crocker Range, of 1200-1800 metre mountains in Sabah, Malaysia. In the vicinity of park headquarter, there is a resort that provides accommodation and food services. Other visitors facilities such as an exhibition centre, insectarium, fernarium, observation tower and trekking trail can also be found.\n\nThe park covers 1,399 km², making it the largest park in Sabah. The park consists of both hill and mountain forest, with many species of flora and fauna endemic to Borneo. Maintenance of this forest cover is essential to ensuring a pure water supply for many of the towns and communities in Sabah.\n\nThe park contains at least five species of primates, such as the orang-utan, gibbons and the furry tarsier with its enormous round eyes, and extremely sociable long-tailed macaques. The Padas River bisects the range between Beaufort and Tenom.\n\nCrocker Range Park is administered by Sabah Parks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16225974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16225974", "title": "Farthest South", "text": "Farthest South\n\nFarthest South was the most southerly latitudes reached by explorers before the conquest of the South Pole in 1911. Significant steps on the road to the pole were the discovery of lands south of Cape Horn in 1619, Captain James Cook's crossing of the Antarctic Circle in 1773, and the earliest confirmed sightings of the Antarctic mainland in 1820. From the late 19th century onward, the quest for Farthest South latitudes became in effect a race to reach the pole, which culminated in Roald Amundsen's success in December 1911.\n\nIn the years before reaching the pole was a realistic objective, other motives drew adventurers southward. Initially, the driving force was the discovery of new trade routes between Europe and the Far East. After such routes had been established and the main geographical features of the earth had been broadly mapped, the lure for mercantile adventurers was the great fertile continent of \"Terra Australis\" which, according to myth, lay hidden in the south. Belief in the existence of this supposed land of plenty persisted well into the 18th century; explorers were reluctant to accept the truth that slowly emerged, of a cold, harsh environment in the lands of the Southern Ocean.\n\nJames Cook's voyages of 1771–74 demonstrated conclusively the likely hostile nature of any hidden lands. This caused a shift of emphasis in the first half of the 19th century, away from trade and towards sealing and whaling, and then exploration and discovery. After the first overwintering on continental Antarctica in 1898–99 (Adrien de Gerlache), the prospect of reaching the South Pole appeared realistic, and the race for the pole began. The British were pre-eminent in this endeavor, which was characterized by the rivalry between Robert Falcon Scott and Ernest Shackleton during the Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration. Shackleton's efforts fell short; Scott reached the pole in January 1912 only to find that he had been beaten by the Norwegian Amundsen.\n\nIn 1494, the principal maritime powers, Portugal and Spain, signed a treaty which drew a line down the middle of the Atlantic Ocean and allocated all trade routes to the east of the line to Portugal. That gave Portugal dominance of the only known route to the east—via the Cape of Good Hope and Indian Ocean, which left Spain, and later other countries, to seek a western route to the Pacific. The exploration of the south began as part of the search for such a route.\n\nUnlike the Arctic, there is no evidence of human visitation or habitation in Antarctica or the islands around it prior to European exploration. However, the most southerly parts of South America were already inhabited by tribes such as the Selk'nam/Ona, the Yagán/Yámana, the Alacaluf and the Haush. The Haush in particular made regular trips to Isla de los Estados, which was from the main island of Tierra del Fuego, suggesting that some of them may have been capable of reaching the islands near Cape Horn. Fuegian Indian artifacts and canoe remnants have also been discovered on the Falkland Islands, suggesting the capacity for even longer sea journeys.\n\nWhile the natives of Tierra del Fuego were not capable of true oceanic travel, there is some evidence of Polynesian visits to some of the sub antarctic islands to the south of New Zealand, although these are further from Antarctica than South America. There are also remains of a Polynesian settlement dating back to the 13th century on Enderby Island in the Auckland Islands. According to ancient legends, around the year 650 the Polynesian traveler Ui-te-Rangiora led a fleet of Waka Tīwai south until they reached \"a place of bitter cold where rock-like structures rose from a solid sea\". It is unclear from the legends how far south Ui-te-Rangiora penetrated, but it appears that he observed ice in large quantities. A shard of undated, unidentified pottery, reported as found in 1886 in the Antipodes Islands, has been associated with this expedition.\n\nAlthough Portuguese by birth, Ferdinand Magellan transferred his allegiance to King Charles I of Spain, on whose behalf he left Seville on 10 August 1519, with a squadron of five ships, in search of a western route to the Spice Islands in the East Indies. Success depended on finding a strait or passage through the South American land masses, or finding the southern tip of the continent and sailing around it. The South American coast was sighted on 6 December 1519, and Magellan moved cautiously southward, following the coast to reach latitude 49°S on 31 March 1520. Little if anything was known of the coast south of this point, so Magellan decided to wait out the southern winter here, and established the settlement of Puerto San Julian.\n\nIn September 1520, the voyage continued down the uncharted coast, and on 21 October reached 52°S. Here Magellan found a deep inlet which proved to be the strait he was seeking, later to be known by his name. Early in November 1520, as the squadron navigated through the strait, they reached its most southerly point at approximate latitude 54°S. This was a record Farthest South for a European navigator, though not the farthest southern penetration by man; the position was north of the Tierra del Fuego archipelago, where there is evidence of human settlement dating back thousands of years.\n\nThe first sighting of an ocean passage to the Pacific south of Tierra del Fuego is sometimes attributed to Francisco de Hoces of the Loaisa Expedition. In January 1526 his ship \"San Lesmes\" was blown south from the Atlantic entrance of the Magellan Strait to a point where the crew thought they saw a headland, and water beyond it, which indicated the southern extremity of the continent. It is speculation as to which headland they saw; conceivably it was Cape Horn. In parts of the Spanish-speaking world it is believed that de Hoces may have discovered the strait later known as the Drake Passage more than 50 years before Sir Francis Drake, the British privateer.\n\nSir Francis Drake sailed from Plymouth on 15 November 1577, in command of a fleet of five ships under his flagship \"Pelican\", later renamed the \"Golden Hinde\". His principal objective was plunder, not exploration; his initial targets were the unfortified Spanish towns on the Pacific coasts of Chile and Peru. Following Magellan's route, Drake reached Puerto San Julian on 20 June. After nearly two months in harbour, Drake left the port with a reduced fleet of three ships and a small pinnace. His ships entered the Magellan Strait on 23 August and emerged in the Pacific Ocean on 6 September.\n\nDrake set a course to the north-west, but on the following day a gale scattered the ships. The \"Marigold\" was sunk by a giant wave; the \"Elizabeth\" managed to return into the Magellan Strait, later sailing eastwards back to England; the pinnace was lost later. The gales persisted for more than seven weeks. The \"Golden Hinde\" was driven far to the west and south, before clawing its way back towards land. On 22 October, the ship anchored off an island which Drake named \"Elizabeth Island\", where wood for the galley fires was collected and seals and penguins captured for food.\n\nAccording to Drake's Portuguese pilot, Nuno da Silva, their position at the anchorage was 57°S. However, there is no island at that latitude. The as yet undiscovered Diego Ramírez Islands, at 56°30'S, are treeless and cannot have been the islands where Drake's crew collected wood. This indicates that the navigational calculation was faulty, and that Drake landed at or near the then unnamed Cape Horn, possibly on Horn Island itself. His final southern latitude can only be speculated as that of Cape Horn, at 55°59'S. In his report, Drake wrote: \"The Uttermost Cape or headland of all these islands stands near 56 degrees, without which there is no main island to be seen to the southwards but that the Atlantic Ocean and the South Sea meet.\" This open sea south of Cape Horn became known as the Drake Passage even though Drake himself did not traverse it.\n\nOn 14 June 1615, Willem Schouten, with two ships \"Eendracht\" and \"Hoorn\", set sail from Texel in the Netherlands in search of a western route to the Pacific. \"Hoorn\" was lost in a fire, but \"Eendracht\" continued southward. On 29 January 1616, Schouten reached what he discerned to be the southernmost cape of the South American continent; he named this point \"Kaap Hoorn\" (Cape Horn) after his hometown and his lost ship. Schouten's navigational readings are inaccurate—he placed Cape Horn at 57°48' south, when its actual position is 55°58'. His claim to have reached 58° south is unverified, although he sailed on westward to become the first European navigator to reach the Pacific via the Drake Passage.\n\nThe next recorded navigation of the Drake Passage was achieved in February 1619, by the brothers Bartolome and Gonzalo Garcia de Nodal. The Garcia de Nodal expedition discovered a small group of islands about south-west of Cape Horn, at latitude 56°30'S. They named these the Diego Ramirez Islands after the expedition's pilot. The islands remained the most southerly known land on earth until Captain James Cook's discovery of the South Sandwich Islands in 1775.\n\nOther voyages brought further discoveries in the southern oceans; in August 1592, the English seaman John Davis had taken shelter \"among certain Isles never before discovered\"—presumed to be the Falkland Islands. In 1675, the English merchant voyager Anthony de la Roché visited South Georgia (the first Antarctic land discovered); in 1739 the Frenchman Jean-Baptiste Bouvet de Lozier discovered the remote Bouvet Island, and in 1772 his compatriot, Yves-Joseph de Kerguelen de Trémarec, found the Kerguelen Islands.\n\nThe second of James Cook's historic voyages, 1772–1775, was primarily a search for the elusive Terra Australis Incognita that was still believed to lie somewhere in the unexplored latitudes below 40°S. Cook left England in September 1772 with two ships, HMS \"Resolution\" and HMS \"Adventure. After pausing at Cape Town, on 22 November the two ships sailed due south, but were driven to the east by heavy gales. They managed to edge further south, encountering their first pack ice on 10 December. This soon became a solid barrier, which tested Cook's seamanship as he manoeuvered for a passage through. Eventually, he found open water, and was able to continue south; on 17 January 1773, the expedition reached the Antarctic Circle at 66°20'S, the first ships to do so. Further progress was barred by ice, and the ships turned north-eastwards and headed for New Zealand, which they reached on 26 March.\n\nDuring the ensuing months, the expedition explored the southern Pacific Ocean before Cook took \"Resolution\" south again—\"Adventure\" had retired back to South Africa after a fracas with the New Zealand native population. This time Cook was able to penetrate deep beyond the Antarctic Circle, and on 30 January 1774 reached 71°10'S, his Farthest South, but the state of the ice made further southward travel impossible. This southern record would hold for 49 years.\n\nIn the course of his voyages in Antarctic waters, Cook had encircled the world at latitudes generally above 60°S, and saw nothing but bleak inhospitable islands, without a hint of the fertile continent which some still hoped lay in the south. Cook wrote that if any such continent existed it would be \"a country doomed by nature\", and that \"no man will venture further than I have done, and the land to the South will never be explored\". He concluded: \"Should the impossible be achieved and the land attained, it would be wholly useless and of no benefit to the discoverer or his nation\".\n\nDespite Cook's prediction, the early 19th century saw numerous attempts to penetrate southward, and to discover new lands. In 1819, William Smith, in command of the brigantine \"Williams\", discovered the South Shetland Islands, and in the following year Edward Bransfield, in the same ship, sighted the Trinity Peninsula at the northern extremity of Graham Land. A few days before Bransfield's discovery, on 27 January 1820, the Russian captain Fabian von Bellingshausen, in another Antarctic sector, had come within sight of the coast of what is now known as Queen Maud Land. He is thus credited as the first person to see the continent's mainland, although he did not make this claim himself. Bellingshausen made two circumnavigations mainly in latitudes between 60 and 67°S, and in January 1821 reached his most southerly point at 70°S, in a longitude close to that in which Cook had made his record 47 years earlier. In 1821 the American sealing captain John Davis led a party which landed on an uncharted stretch of land beyond the South Shetlands. \"I think this Southern Land to be a Continent\", he wrote in his ship's log. If his landing was not on an island, his party were the first to set foot on the Antarctic continent.\n\nJames Weddell was an Anglo-Scottish seaman who saw service in both the Royal Navy and the merchant marine before undertaking his first voyages to Antarctic waters. In 1819, in command of the 160-ton brigantine \"Jane\" which had been adapted for whaling, he set sail for the newly discovered whaling grounds of the South Sandwich Islands. His chief interest on this voyage was in finding the \"Aurora Islands\", which had been reported at 53°S, 48°W by the Spanish ship \"Aurora\" in 1762. He failed to discover this non-existent land, but his sealing activities showed a handsome profit.\n\nIn 1822 Weddell, again in command of \"Jane\" and this time accompanied by the smaller ship \"Beaufort\", set sail for the south with instructions from his employers that, should the sealing prove barren, he was to \"investigate beyond the track of former navigators\". This suited Weddell's exploring instincts, and he equipped his vessel with chronometers, thermometers, compasses, barometers and charts. In January 1823 he probed the waters between the South Sandwich Islands and the South Orkney Islands, looking for new land. Finding none, he turned southward down the 40°W meridian, deep into the sea that now bears his name. The season was unusually calm, and Weddell reported that \"not a particle of ice of any description was to be seen\". On 20 February 1823, he reached a new Farthest South of 74°15'S, three degrees beyond Cook's former record. Unaware that he was close to land, Weddell decided to return northward from this point, convinced that the sea continued as far as the South Pole.\nAnother two days' sailing would likely have brought him within sight of Coats Land, which was not discovered until 1904, by William Speirs Bruce during the Scottish National Antarctic Expedition, 1902–04. On his return to England, Weddell's claim to have exceeded Cook's record by such a margin \"caused some raised eyebrows\", but was soon accepted.\n\nIn November 1823, the American sealing captain Benjamin Morrell reached the South Sandwich Islands in the schooner \"Wasp\". According to his own later account he then sailed south, unconsciously following the track taken by James Weddell a month previously. Morrell claimed to have reached 70°14'S, at which point he turned north because the ship's stoves were running short of fuel—otherwise, he says, he could have \"reached 85° without the least doubt\". After turning, he claimed to have encountered land which he described in some detail, and which he named New South Greenland. This land proved not to exist. Morrell's reputation as a liar and a fraud means that most of his geographical claims have been dismissed by scholars, although attempts have been made to rationalize his assertions.\n\nJames Clark Ross's 1839–43 Antarctic expedition in HMS \"Erebus\" and HMS \"Terror\" was a full-scale Royal Naval enterprise, the principal function of which was to test current theories on magnetism, and to try to locate the South Magnetic Pole. The expedition had first been proposed by leading astronomer Sir John Herschel, and was supported by the Royal Society and the British Association for the Advancement of Science. Ross had considerable past experience in magnetic observation and Arctic exploration; in May 1831 he had been a member of a party that had reached the location of the North Magnetic Pole, and he was an obvious choice as commander.\n\nThe expedition left England on 30 September 1839, and after a voyage that was slowed by the many stops required to carry out work on magnetism, it reached Tasmania in August 1840. Following a three-month break imposed by the southern winter, they sailed south-east on 12 November 1840, and crossed the Antarctic Circle on 1 January 1841. On 11 January a long mountainous coastline that stretched to the south was sighted. Ross named the land Victoria Land, and the mountains the Admiralty Range. He followed the coast southwards and passed Weddell's Farthest South point of 74°15'S on 23 January. A few days later, as they moved further eastward to avoid shore ice, they were met by the sight of twin volcanoes (one of them active), which were named Mount Erebus and Mount Terror, in honour of the expedition's ships.\n\nThe Great Ice Barrier (later to be called the \"Ross Ice Shelf\") stretched away east of these mountains, forming an impassable obstacle to further southward progress. In his search for a strait or inlet, Ross explored along the edge of the barrier, and reached an approximate latitude of 78°S on or about 8 February 1841. He failed to find a suitable anchorage that would have allowed the ships to over-winter, so he returned to Tasmania, arriving there in April 1841.\n\nThe following season Ross returned and located an inlet in the Barrier face that enabled him, on 23 January 1842, to extend his Farthest South to 78°09'30\"S, a record which would remain unchallenged for 58 years. Although Ross had not been able to land on the Antarctic continent, nor approach the location of the South Magnetic Pole, on his return to England in 1843 he was knighted for his achievements in geographical and scientific exploration.\n\nThe oceanographic research voyage known as the Challenger Expedition, 1872–76, explored Antarctic waters for several weeks, but did not approach the land itself; its research, however, proved the existence of an Antarctic continent beyond reasonable doubt.\n\nThe impetus for what would become known as the Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration came in 1893, when in a lecture to the Royal Geographical Society Professor Sir John Murray called for a resumption of Antarctic exploration: \"a steady, continuous, laborious and systematic exploration of the whole southern region\". He followed this call with an appeal to British patriotism: \"Is the last great piece of maritime exploration on the surface of our Earth to be undertaken by Britons, or is it to be left to those who may be destined to succeed or supplant us on the Ocean?\" During the following quarter-century, fifteen expeditions from eight different nations rose to this challenge. In the patriotic spirit engendered by Murray's call, and under the influence of RGS president Sir Clements Markham, British endeavours in the following years gave particular weight to the achievement of new Farthest South records, and began to develop the character of a race for the South Pole.\n\nThe Norwegian-born Carsten Egeberg Borchgrevink had emigrated to Australia in 1888, where he worked on survey teams in Queensland and New South Wales before accepting a schoolteaching post. In 1894 he joined a sealing and whaling expedition to the Antarctic, led by Henryk Bull. In January 1895 Borchgrevink was one of a group from that expedition that claimed the first confirmed landing on the Antarctic continent, at Cape Adare. Borchgrevink determined to return with his own expedition, which would overwinter and explore inland, with the location of the South Magnetic Pole as an objective.\n\nBorchgrevink went to England, where he was able to persuade the publishing magnate Sir George Newnes to finance him to the extent of £40,000, equivalent to £ in , with the sole stipulation that, despite the shortage of British participants, the venture be styled the \"British Antarctic Expedition\". This was by no means the grand British expedition envisaged by Markham and the geographical establishment, who were hostile and dismissive of Borchgrevink. On 23 August 1898 the expedition ship \"Southern Cross\" left London for the Ross Sea, reaching Cape Adare on 17 February 1899. Here a shore party was landed and was the first to over-winter on the Antarctic mainland, in a prefabricated hut.\n\nIn January 1900, \"Southern Cross\" returned, picked up the shore party and, following the route which Ross had taken 60 years previously, sailed southward to the Great Ice Barrier, which they discovered had retreated some south since the days of Ross. A party consisting of Borchgrevink, William Colbeck and a Sami named Per Savio landed with sledges and dogs. This party ascended the Barrier and made the first sledge journey on the barrier surface; on 16 February 1900 they extended the Farthest South record to 78°50'S. On its return to England later in 1900, Borchgrevink's expedition was received without enthusiasm, despite its new southern record. Historian David Crane commented that if Borchgrevink had been a British naval officer, his contribution to Antarctic knowledge might have been better received, but \"a Norwegian seaman/schoolmaster was never going to be taken seriously\".\n\nThe Discovery Expedition of 1901–04 was Captain Scott's first Antarctic command. Although according to Edward Wilson the intention was to \"reach the Pole if possible, or find some new land\", there is nothing in Scott's writings, nor in the official objectives of the expedition, to indicate that the pole was a definite goal. However, a southern journey towards the pole was within Scott's formal remit to \"explore the ice barrier of Sir James Ross ... and to endeavour to solve the very important physical and geographical questions connected with this remarkable ice formation\".\n\nThe southern journey was undertaken by Scott, Wilson and Ernest Shackleton. The party set out on 1 November 1902 with various teams in support, and one of these, led by Michael Barne, passed Borchgrevink's Farthest South mark on 11 November, an event recorded with great high spirits in Wilson's diary. The march continued, initially in favourable weather conditions, but encountered increasing difficulties caused by the party's lack of ice travelling experience and the loss of all its dogs through a combination of poor diet and overwork. The 80°S mark was passed on 2 December, and four weeks later, on 30 December 1902, Wilson and Scott took a short ski trip from their southern camp to set a new Farthest South at (according to their measurements) 82°17'S. Modern maps, correlated with Shackleton's photograph and Wilson's drawing, put their final camp at 82°6'S, and the point reached by Scott and Wilson at 82°11'S, beyond Borchgrevink's mark.\n\nAfter his share in the Farthest South achievement of the Discovery Expedition, Ernest Shackleton suffered a physical collapse on the return journey, and was sent home with the expedition's relief vessel on orders from Scott; he bitterly resented it, and the two became rivals. Four years later, Shackleton organised his own polar venture, the Nimrod Expedition, 1907–09. This was the first expedition to set the definite objective of reaching the South Pole, and to have a specific strategy for doing so.\n\nTo assist his endeavour, Shackleton adopted a mixed transport strategy, involving the use of Manchurian ponies as pack animals, as well as the more traditional dog-sledges. A specially adapted motor car was also taken. Although the dogs and the car were used during the expedition for a number of purposes, the task of assisting the group that would undertake the march to the pole fell to the ponies. The size of Shackleton's four-man polar party was dictated by the number of surviving ponies; of the ten that were embarked in New Zealand, only four had survived the 1908 winter.\n\nErnest Shackleton and three companions (Frank Wild, Eric Marshall and Jameson Adams) began their march on 29 October 1908. On 26 November they surpassed the farthest point reached by Scott's 1902 party. \"A day to remember\", wrote Shackleton in his journal, noting that they had reached this point in far less time than on the previous march with Captain Scott. Shackleton's group continued southward, discovering and ascending the Beardmore Glacier to the polar plateau, and then marching on to reach their Farthest South point at 88°23'S, a mere from the pole, on 9 January 1909. Here they planted the Union Jack presented to them by Queen Alexandra, and took possession of the plateau in the name of King Edward VII, before shortages of food and supplies forced them to turn back north. This was, at the time, the closest convergence on either pole. The increase of more than six degrees south from Scott's previous record was the greatest extension of Farthest South since Captain Cook's 1773 mark. Shackleton was treated as a hero on his return to England. His record was to stand for less than three years, being passed by Amundsen on 7 December 1911.\n\nIn the wake of Shackleton's near miss, Captain Scott organised the Terra Nova Expedition, 1910–13, in which securing the South Pole for the British Empire was an explicitly stated prime objective. As he planned his expedition, Scott saw no reason to believe that his effort would be contested. However, the Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen, who had been developing plans for a North Pole expedition, changed his mind when, in September 1909, the North Pole was claimed in quick succession by the Americans Frederick Cook and Robert Peary. Amundsen resolved to go south instead.\n\nAmundsen concealed his revised intentions until his ship, \"Fram\", was in the Atlantic and beyond communication. Scott was notified by telegram that a rival was in the field, but had little choice other than to continue with his own plans. Meanwhile, \"Fram\" arrived at the Ross Ice Shelf on 11 January 1911, and by 14 January had found the inlet, or \"Bay of Whales\", where Borchgrevink had made his landing eleven years earlier. This became the location of Amundsen's base camp, \"Framheim\".\n\nAfter nine months' preparation, Amundsen's polar journey began on 20 October 1911. Avoiding the known route to the polar plateau via the Beardmore Glacier, Amundsen led his party of five due south, reaching the Transantarctic Mountains on 16 November. They discovered the Axel Heiberg Glacier, which provided them with a direct route to the polar plateau and on to the pole. Shackleton's Farthest South mark was passed on 7 December, and the South Pole was reached on 14 December 1911. The Norwegian party's greater skills with the techniques of ice travel, using ski and dogs, had proved decisive in their success. Captain Scott's five-man team reached the same point 33 days later, and perished during their return journey. Since Cook's journeys, every expedition that had held the Farthest South record before Amundsen's conquest had been British; however, the final triumph indisputably belonged to the Norwegians.\n\nAfter Scott's retreat from the pole in January 1912, the location remained unvisited for nearly 18 years. On 28 November 1929, US Navy Commander (later Rear-Admiral) Richard E. Byrd and three others completed the first aircraft flight over the South Pole. Twenty-seven years later, Rear-Admiral George J. Dufek became the first person to set foot on the pole since Scott, when on 31 October 1956 he and the crew of R4D-5 Skytrain \"Que Sera Sera\" landed at the pole. Between November 1956 and February 1957, the first permanent South Pole research station was erected and christened the Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station in honour of the pioneer explorers. Since then the station had been substantially extended, and in 2008 was housing up to 150 scientific staff and support personnel. Dufek gave considerable assistance to the Commonwealth Trans-Antarctic Expedition, 1955–58, led by Vivian Fuchs, which on 19 January 1958 became the first party to reach the pole overland since Scott.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48987289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48987289", "title": "Free stationing", "text": "Free stationing\n\nIn surveying, free stationing (also known as resection) is a method of determining a location of one unknown point in relation to known points. There is a zero point of reference called a Total station. The instrument can be freely positioned so that all survey points are at a suitable sight from the instrument. Setting up the Total station on a known point, often it is not possible to see all survey points. With the Total Station, bearings and distances are measured to at least two known points of a control network. This with a handheld computer recorded data is related to local polar coordinates, defined by the Horizontal Circle of the total station. By a geometric transformation, these polar coordinates are transformed to the coordinate system of the control network. Errors are distributed by least squares adjustment. The position and orientation of the Total Station in relation to where the Control network is established. \n\n\nBecause bearings and distances in a Resection (Free Stationing) are measured, the result may have a different mathematical solution. This method of a \"Total station set up\" has different names in other languages, e.g. German: (Free Stationing).\n\nNaming is also regulated by the German Institute for Standardization DIN 18 709.\n\nBy measuring bearings and distances, local polar coordinates are recorded. The orientation of this local polar coordinate system is defined by the 0° Horizontal Circle of the Total station (polar axis L). The pole of this local polar coordinate system is the Vertical Axis (pole O) of the Total Stations. The polar coordinates (r,f) with the pole are transformed with a Surveying Software in a data collector to the Cartesian coordinates (x,y) of the known points and the coordinates for the position of the Total station are calculated.\n\nIn a resection (triangulation) measuring bearings only, there can be a problem with an infinite number of solutions called: \"danger circle\" or \"inscribed angle theorem\".\n\nThe back-sight points of the control network should cover and surround the stationing site. The position of the total station is not part of the area. This is the area where you want to measure with this station setup. Topographic points or stakeout points should not be measured outside this area. If measured outside this area, the errors in orientation will be extrapolated instead of being interpolated.\n\nWhile it is possible to use only two known control points in a resection (free stationing), it is recommended to use three control points. There is no redundancy for orientation, using two points only.\n\nUsing five or more points of the control network, there is only a slight improvement in the accuracy.\n\n\nBecause of the range and accuracy of total stations, the method of a resection (free stationing) permits a great freedom of positioning the total station. For this reason, this method is one of the most used station set ups.\n\nWith the calculated coordinates and orientation of the total station, it can be used to set out points in construction surveying, machine guidance, site plan or other types of surveys.\n\n"}
{"id": "31961205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31961205", "title": "GeoPlace", "text": "GeoPlace\n\nGeoPlace is an organisation (LLP) that oversees the production and maintenance of the national address and street gazetteers, which are created and maintained with input from all local authorities in England and Wales. GeoPlace is a public sector limited liability partnership between the Local Government Association (LGA) and Ordnance Survey.\n\nThe National Land and Property Gazetteer (NLPG) and the National Street Gazetteer (NSG) are overseen by GeoPlace. The National Land and Property Gazetteer has been synchronised with address data from Ordnance Survey - Address Layer 2 (AL2). AL2 also incorporates Royal Mail PAF data. The combination of datasets from Local Government and Ordnance Survey is designed to create one definitive national address gazetteer. Through agreement with Scotland's Improvement Service Company, coverage has been extended to include Scotland.\n\nOn 3 December 2010, the Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government announced the formation of GeoPlace to provide a freely-available national address gazetteer. This is a joint venture between the Local Government Association and Ordnance Survey, which involved the acquisition of Intelligent Addressing. The venture underwent a process of approval by the Office of Fair Trading, which passed a judgement allowing the venture on 15 February 2011. The full text of the OFT decision was published on 23 February 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "53201319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53201319", "title": "Geocell (cartography)", "text": "Geocell (cartography)\n\nIn geographic information systems, a geocell (or geo-cell) is a patch on the surface of the Earth that is 1 degree of latitude by 1 degree of longitude in extent.\n\nAt the equator, a geocell is approximately a 111x square - but the east-west dimension of geocells gradually decreases and the shape of the geocell becomes increasingly trapezoidal towards the poles. At the North and South poles, geocells are distorted into long, thin triangles which are still approximately in the north/south direction but with a base of just .\n"}
{"id": "58235840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58235840", "title": "Geology of Bhutan", "text": "Geology of Bhutan\n\nThe geology of Bhutan is less well studied than many countries in Asia, together with the broader Eastern Himalayas region. Older Paleozoic and Precambrian rocks often appear mixed together with younger sediments due to the Himalayan orogeny. <ref></ref >\n\nGeologic research in Bhutan began in the southwest between 1868 and 1907, followed by regional mapping in 1961 by the Geological Survey of India. A. Gansser led much of the geologic research from the late 1960s through the 1980s. \n\nSome of the oldest rocks in Bhutan are part of the Indian Shield in the Shillong Basement—part of a foreland basin. The Bhutanese foothills are separated from Precambrian crystalline rock by the 35 kilometer foreland, where rocks are fold and faulted newer tectonic events and covered in Quaternary sediments. The South Himalayan molasse is represented by the Siwalik Belt, with four kilometers of siltstone, sandstone and conglomerates in the southeast. \n\nThe Damuda Belt dates to the Carboniferous and Permian in the Paleozoic with coal seams, plant remnants and lenses of much younger Eocene limestone included during the Himalayan orogeny. \n\nThe Lesser Himalayas, to the north of the Damuda Belt contain Precambrian sedimentary rocks such as slate, dolomite and several kilometers of quartzite. \"Slices\" of basement granite and gneiss form mylonite at the edges. These rocks are believed to be part of the Indian Shield and are one billion years old. Geologists also define the High Himalayan Crystalline rocks extending 150 kilometers from the Main Central Thrust to Tethys Ocean sediments in the north. Sillimanite, garnet and biotite are especially common in this area. The Takhtsang monastery, carved into Takhtsang gneiss, is surrounded by rocks with calcsilicate lenses, interpreted as the \"hand and foot prints\" of Padmasambhva—an important founder of Bhutanese holy sites. This gneiss grades toward migmatite, at higher elevations such as Masang Kang mountain. Geologists have dated the rock to 500 to 400 million years ago. The Paro marbles are widespread in southwest, forming massifs, while leuocogranites are common in dikes, sills and plutons in the northeast. \nTethys Ocean, Tethyan sediments outcrop along the Tibetan border. The Lingshi Basin is one example, beginning with a foundation of marble and phyllite lying atop older crystalline rock, overlain by tillite and limestone. In the basin, migmatite gneiss is transgressed by calc-schist, breccia, quartzite, limestone and recrystallized fossils. The Tang Chu Basin, on the other hand, holds Devonian rocks and fossils. \n\nYoung faults and fracture zones formed in the last 2.5 million years of the Quaternary. These recent tectonic features are found in the central and east, often associated with hot springs. Research published in 1983 indicated seven glacial periods during the Pleistocene, based on terminal moraine distribution.\nBhutan has small gypsum deposits in the Kuru Chu spur and limestones in the foothills of the Himalayas which are extracted locally for the cement industry. Coal seams, with 25 percent ash, are scattered throughout the Damudas region. The Tang-Chu area has high-quality Devonian slate used for roofing. \n"}
{"id": "58222351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58222351", "title": "Geology of Liechtenstein", "text": "Geology of Liechtenstein\n\nThe geology of Liechtenstein formed at the intersection of the Eastern and Western Alps and the country occupies a wider than average river valley on the Rhine River, running north-south. A spur of the Ratikon Mountains flanks the river to the east, while Schellenberg hill is a defining topographic high in the north. \n\nThe Santis-Drusberg Nappe (a nappe formation) crops out in the Schellenberg anticline containing Early Cretaceous marine sediments together with deeper water limestone and foraminifera fossils. \n\nFrom Dogger to Malm, in the Ultrahelvetic realm the Flascherberg is assembled from limestone and black shale. Geologists divide the Northern Flysch Nappes into the lower Uentschen Nappe and the upper Liechtenstein Flysch. The Southern Flysch Nappe includes the Prattigau Flysch, which \"pinches out\" near the northern border. The Uentschen Nappe is made up of turbidite sediments from the Maastrichtian, while the Liechtenstein Flysch is geologically similar but younger—from the Paleocene. \n\nThese tectonic structures are overlain by the Falknis Nappe, north of the village of Triesen and composed of Jurassic marine sediments. The Lechtal Nappe is the only prominent nappe in the Eastern Alps. \n\nDuring the last 2.5 million years of the Quaternary, the Rhine Glacier deepened the valley together with the Ill Glacier. Ancient Lake Constance flooded the area, deposited fine lake bed sediments which now cover much of the country's land surface. Major landslides were common into the early Holocene. <ref></ref >\n\nLiechtenstein has few natural resources, aside from alluvial gravel used by the local concrete industry. Gravel extraction from the river interfered with groundwater flows and was banned after 1972. Historically, peat was extracted in the north of the country, but this has also stopped. \n"}
{"id": "17018369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17018369", "title": "Half viaduct", "text": "Half viaduct\n\nA half viaduct is a type of viaduct built into a hillside, where only part of the road is supported by the structure.\n"}
{"id": "22010245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22010245", "title": "Inuvialuit Settlement Region", "text": "Inuvialuit Settlement Region\n\nThe Inuvialuit Settlement Region (ISR), located in Canada’s western Arctic, was designated in 1984 in the Inuvialuit Final Agreement by the Government of Canada for the Inuvialuit people. It spans of land, mostly above the tree line, and includes several subregions: the Beaufort Sea, the Mackenzie River delta, the northern portion of Yukon (\"Yukon North Slope\"), the northwest portion of Northwest Territories, and the western Canadian Arctic Islands. The ISR includes both Crown Lands and Inuvialuit Private Lands.\n\nThe ISR is one of the four Inuit regions of Canada, collectively known as Inuit Nunangat, represented by the Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami (ITK). The other regions include Nunatsiavut in Labrador, Nunavik in northern Quebec, and the territory of Nunavut. The ISR is the homeland of the Inuvialuit. The Inuvialuit Regional Corporation, established in 1986 as the receiver of the lands and financial compensation of the Inuvialuit Final Agreement, is controlled by the Inuvialuit population and is responsible for ISR operations. As of 2013 Nellie Cournoyea, former Premier of the Northwest Territories, is the Chairman of the Board.\n\nThe Inuvialuit Settlement Region Database contains descriptions of thousands of publications and research projects about the ISR. It is maintained by the Joint Secretariat—Inuvialuit Renewable Resource Committees and the Arctic Science and Technology Information System. Funding comes from Shell Canada and MGM Energy.\n\nIn the 2006 Canada Census, the ISR population was 5,767 people, of which 3,115 were Inuvialuit and formed a majority in all six communities. There are no communities in the Yukon North Slope. Of the six communities in the ISR all are located in the Northwest Territories and, along with Fort McPherson and Tsiigehtchic, form the Inuvik Region.\n\nInuvik, located on the East Channel of the Mackenzie Delta, approximately from the Arctic Ocean, is the region's administrative centre, home to the Inuvialuit Regional Corporation. The only other inland community, Aklavik, is located on the Peel Channel and is home to Aurora College. Hunting, fishing and trapping are the major economic activities of Paulatuk, in Amundsen Gulf's Darnley Bay, and Sachs Harbour, the only permanent settlement on Banks Island. Tuktoyaktuk, formerly known as \"Port Brabant\", is set on Kugmallit Bay, near the Mackenzie River Delta. It has the only deepwater port in the ISR. Ulukhaktok, formerly known as \"Holman\", is located on the west coast of Victoria Island. Printmaking has taken over as the primary source of income in recent years.\n\nEnglish is spoken in the entire region. Additionally, Siglitun is spoken in Paulatuk, Sachs Harbour and Tuktoyaktuk. Uummarmiutun is spoken in Inuvik and Aklavik. Inuinnaqtun is spoken in Ulukhaktok and nowhere else in the Northwest Territories. Together they are grouped under Inuvialuktun.\n\nThe Inuvialuit Renewable Resource Conservation and Management Plan sets the strategy for fish and wildlife management and conservation. Integrated management planning of the region's marine and coastal areas is described in the Beaufort Sea Integrated Management Planning Initiative. Wildlife includes Arctic char, Arctic fox, beluga whale, bearded seal, bowhead whale, caribou, moose, muskox, polar bear, ringed seal, and whitefish.\n\nMigratory bird management within the ISR is handled by policies, principles, and regulations described in the Conservation of Migratory Birds in the Inuvialuit Settlement Region report.\n\nThere are several protected parks and bird sanctuaries in the ISR. There are five parks: Aulavik National Park, Herschel Island Territorial Park, Ivvavik National Park, Pingo National Landmark, and Tuktut Nogait National Park. There are also four bird sanctuaries: Anderson River Delta Migratory Bird Sanctuary, Banks Island No. 1 Bird Sanctuary, Cape Perry Migratory Bird Sanctuary, and Kendall Island Migratory Bird Sanctuary\n\nThe ISR's Inuvialuit Private Lands are divided into those where the Inuvialuit own surface and subsurface minerals, or those lands with only surface rights. The area is rich in non-renewable hydrocarbon resources. There are proven commercial quantities of natural gas, nickel, petroleum, and zinc.\n\n"}
{"id": "16707882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16707882", "title": "Islands First", "text": "Islands First\n\nIslands First is a non-governmental organization working on behalf of the Small Island Developing States to confront the challenges of climate change, the depletion of ocean resources (including ocean acidification and biodiversity loss), and ocean level's rise.\n\nSmall island countries have been the first to suffer the negative consequences of climate change and global warming, despite bearing little responsibility for creating the problem. Islands First seeks to foster an appreciation for the need to rapidly cut carbon dioxide emissions with international policy makers.\n\nIslands First's mission is to help the small island states, who represent nearly one-quarter of the votes at the United Nations (UN), to become effective and vocal advocates for change within the most important forum for environmental progress by building the capacity of their UN missions to influence environmental policy. At over 40 nations strong, the Small Island States can become a formidable political force within the UN system. Islands First will help them realize that potential.\n\nIslands First proposes to empower the small island states to influence environmental policy through the use of some of the methods wielded so effectively by the wealthy nations. Islands First will assist the small island states by;\n\nIslands First is unique among environmental NGOs in that it is being created in cooperation with, and at the request of, the small island states themselves, rather than by UN Agencies or environmental advocates. While this may seem like an academic point, it has profound practical implications. Islands First is not an endeavor seeking to impose environmentalism on a select group of states or a group of Western elites instructing nations on how to behave. Rather, Islands First originates at the request of several small island states with the goal of increasing their ability to advocate on their own behalf and cooperate more effectively with the scientific and environmental communities. Islands First seeks to link the scientific and environmental communities with the levers of power in a way never done before. With better organization and coordination among their strategic partners, the small island states hope to recast the environment and development agenda. At its outset, Islands First is working hand in hand with several UN missions in a way never before attempted in UN history. In the face of the challenges brought on by climate change, the small island states have unimpeachable moral standing as well as political will in abundance. There is simply no group of nations more appropriate to lead the fight for global environmental justice.\n\nCooperation among the small island states, the scientific community, and the environmental community on this scale would be historically unprecedented, but it would not be the first time the small island states have mobilized politically and became powerful agents of environmental change. In fact, a concerted effort by a group of small island states put climate change on the UN agenda back in 1988, when Malta persuaded the General Assembly to recognize the potential for \"severe economic and social consequences\" from climate change. The Republic of Maldives followed suit by hosting the 1989 Small States Conference on Sea Level Rise, which resulted in the \"Malé Declaration on Global Warming and Sea Level Rise\". The Conference also saw the creation of an Action Group on climate change consisting of more than 30 small island states, later to become the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS). This momentum continued through the 1992 \"Earth Summit\" in Rio de Janeiro, where AOSIS, aided by the Foundation for Environmental Law and Development (FIELD) and other NGOs, successfully lobbied for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). It was thus fitting that the Maldives became the first signatory to the third protocol of the UNFCCC, also known as the Kyoto Protocol.\n\nSimilarly, the tiny Republic of Palau, with a mandate from an activist-minded President and a concerned legislature, began in May 2004 what appeared to be a quixotic effort to stop bottom trawling, an odious method of fishing that irreparably damages some of the world's most biologically diverse coral reefs and is sometimes practiced by multinational fishing corporations. Under the guidance of Palau's Ambassador Stuart Beck, a Yale-trained lawyer and Chairman of Islands First, the Palau Mission and a cohort of New York University (NYU) law students worked within the UN system to change the law of the sea, not only for Palau, but for the entire world. These law students negotiated on Palau's behalf at the United Nations, interfaced with scientists and NGOs committed to eradicating the practice, and coordinated Palau's efforts with other likeminded missions. All of this hard work has already begun to pay dividends. The year 2006 saw the passage of the Nadi Declaration, which commits the sixteen members of the Pacific Islands Forum to advocate for prohibitions on bottom trawling and other destructive fishing practices in international waters, prompting the Deep Sea Conservation Coalition to issue a press statement reading:\n\"If all nations that purport to support urgent action to protect the biodiversity of the international waters of the world's oceans from bottom trawl fishing, were as consistent and persistent as the Republic of Palau, the deep sea habitats of the high seas would undoubtedly already be safe from high seas bottom trawling.\"\n\nThe Palau Mission continued to push its agenda at the United Nations and played a critical role in rallying support for General Assembly Resolution 61/105, which, among other things, established a new global governance regime for protecting vulnerable marine ecosystems. As reported by the BBC, \"The landmark deal will restrict bottom-trawling, which experts say destroys coral reefs and stirs up clouds of sediment that suffocate marine life.\" The operators of industrial fishing fleets around the world have taken notice and many have already started retooling their vessels. The result of the alliance between the Palau Mission and NYU has been one of the largest gains in ocean policy since the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea was concluded in 1982.\n\nThese achievements are remarkable, not only because of their global ramifications, but because they were led by countries with very few resources at their disposal. In fact, Palau's UN Mission did not have a single paid employee during its campaign against bottom trawling. Without this newfound capacity in the form of legal advisors, improved cooperation with interested NGOs, and an ongoing dialogue with Palau's committed political leaders, none of what transpired would have been possible. These examples of political upstarts navigating a system of entrenched power vividly demonstrate what is possible at the United Nations when a committed and organized group of countries decides to act. They also illustrate why the need for an organization like Islands First is so urgent.\n\n"}
{"id": "948618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=948618", "title": "Jingmei District", "text": "Jingmei District\n\nJingmei () is a neighborhood in Taipei City. Formerly an administrative district, in 1990 it merged with Muzha District to create Wenshan District.\n\nJingmei is located south of Taipei Main Station, the city's main transportation hub. Jingmei is known for its locally famous night market. The market includes hundreds, if not thousands, of small street vendors, selling items, including traditional Chinese and Taiwanese snacks, cheap clothes, and various other items. The Jingmei area also includes many stores, upscale restaurants, movie theaters, and Karaoke establishments, making it a popular destination for nights and weekends for the local population. Jingmei Night Market is accessible by subway via Jingmei Station, which is serviced by the Xindian Line of the Taipei Metro. Jingmei also serves as a small transportation hub for local buses, since many bus routes run through the area.\n\nJingmei has a centrally located small park, adjacent to JingSing Junior High-School.\n\nSeveral scenic walks and panoramic views of Jingmei and of downtown Taipei are available around HsianChien Temple. HsianChien is situated on a small hill and accessible by an easy path from Jingshin Street. The shortest route up and down takes about 20 minutes each way.\n\nThe former name Kingbe (), refers to the large spouts of the Liugongjun irrigation system. The name was later modified ().\n\nDuring Japanese rule, the area was under the jurisdiction of , Bunsan District, Taihoku Prefecture. After World War II, the area remained part of Shenkeng Township. In 1950, the more elegant name \"Jingmei\" () was adopted and stood on its own as an urban township. However, in Taiwanese the old name \"Kéng-bé\" is still used.\n\nIn 1967, the township was merged into Taipei City as Jingmei District. In 1990, it merged with Muzha District to create Wenshan District.\n\n"}
{"id": "53855397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53855397", "title": "List of 2017 March for Science locations", "text": "List of 2017 March for Science locations\n\nThe March for Science was a series of protests that occurred across the United States and around the World on April 22, 2017. The protests were organized due to the perceived hostility of the Trump administration, as well as proposed budget cuts to federal agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Institute of Health. A major goal of the march was convincing government officials to adopt policies in-line with the scientific understanding of issues such as climate change and vaccines. Listed below are several hundreds of the affiliated marches.\n"}
{"id": "4368969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4368969", "title": "List of Soviet Antarctic expeditions", "text": "List of Soviet Antarctic expeditions\n\nList of Antarctic expeditions by the Soviet Union is a list of expeditions from the Soviet Union to Antarctica.\n\n"}
{"id": "10909290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10909290", "title": "List of birds of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines", "text": "List of birds of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nThis is a list of the bird species recorded in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. The avifauna of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines include a total of 178 species, according to \"Bird Checklists of the World\" as of January 2018. Of them, two are endemic, four have been introduced by humans, and 103 are rare or accidental. Four species are globally threatened, one of which is possibly extinct.\n\nThis list's taxonomic treatment (designation and sequence of orders, families and species) and nomenclature (common and scientific names) follow the conventions of \"The Clements Checklist of Birds of the World\", 2018 edition. \n\nThe following tags have been used to highlight several categories of occurrence.\n\n\nOrder: AnseriformesFamily: Anatidae\n\nAnatidae includes the ducks and most duck-like waterfowl, such as geese and swans. These birds are adapted to an aquatic existence with webbed feet, flattened bills, and feathers that are excellent at shedding water due to an oily coating.\n\n\nOrder: GalliformesFamily: Cracidae\n\nThe Cracidae are large birds, similar in general appearance to turkeys. The guans and curassows live in trees, but the smaller chachalacas are found in more open scrubby habitats. They are generally dull-plumaged, but the curassows and some guans have colourful facial ornaments.\n\n\nOrder: GalliformesFamily: Odontophoridae\n\nThe New World quails are small, plump terrestrial birds only distantly related to the quails of the Old World, but named for their similar appearance and habits.\n\n\nOrder: GalliformesFamily: Phasianidae\n\nThe Phasianidae are a family of terrestrial birds which consists of quails, partridges, snowcocks, francolins, spurfowls, tragopans, monals, pheasants, peafowls, and jungle fowls. In general, they are plump (although they vary in size) and have broad, relatively short wings.\n\n\nOrder: PodicipediformesFamily: Podicipedidae\n\nGrebes are small to medium-large freshwater diving birds. They have lobed toes and are excellent swimmers and divers. However, they have their feet placed far back on the body, making them quite ungainly on land.\n\n\nOrder: ColumbiformesFamily: Columbidae\n\nPigeons and doves are stout-bodied birds with short necks and short slender bills with a fleshy cere.\n\n\nOrder: CuculiformesFamily: Cuculidae\n\nThe family Cuculidae includes cuckoos, roadrunners, and anis. These birds are of variable size with slender bodies, long tails, and strong legs.\n\n\nOrder: CaprimulgiformesFamily: Apodidae\n\nSwifts are small birds which spend the majority of their lives flying. These birds have very short legs and never settle voluntarily on the ground, perching instead only on vertical surfaces. Many swifts have long swept-back wings which resemble a crescent or boomerang.\n\n\nOrder: CaprimulgiformesFamily: Trochilidae\n\nHummingbirds are small birds capable of hovering in mid-air due to the rapid flapping of their wings. They are the only birds that can fly backwards.\n\n\nOrder: GruiformesFamily: Rallidae\n\nRallidae is a large family of small to medium-sized birds which includes the rails, crakes, coots, and gallinules. Typically they inhabit dense vegetation in damp environments near lakes, swamps, or rivers. In general they are shy and secretive birds, making them difficult to observe. Most species have strong legs and long toes which are well adapted to soft uneven surfaces. They tend to have short, rounded wings and to be weak fliers.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Recurvirostridae\n\nRecurvirostridae is a family of large wading birds which includes the avocets and stilts. The avocets have long legs and long up-curved bills. The stilts have extremely long legs and long, thin, straight bills.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Haematopodidae\n\nThe oystercatchers are large and noisy plover-like birds, with strong bills used for smashing or prising open molluscs.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Charadriidae\n\nThe family Charadriidae includes the plovers, dotterels, and lapwings. They are small to medium-sized birds with compact bodies, short thick necks, and long, usually pointed, wings. They are found in open country worldwide, mostly in habitats near water.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Scolopacidae\n\nScolopacidae is a large diverse family of small to medium-sized shorebirds including the sandpipers, curlews, godwits, shanks, tattlers, woodcocks, snipes, dowitchers, and phalaropes. The majority of these species eat small invertebrates picked out of the mud or soil. Variation in length of legs and bills enables multiple species to feed in the same habitat, particularly on the coast, without direct competition for food.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Stercorariidae\n\nThe family Stercorariidae are, in general, medium to large birds, typically with grey or brown plumage, often with white markings on the wings. They nest on the ground in temperate and arctic regions and are long-distance migrants.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Laridae\n\nLaridae is a family of medium to large seabirds and includes gulls, kittiwakes, terns and skimmers. They are typically grey or white, often with black markings on the head or wings. They have longish bills and webbed feet. Terns are a group of generally medium to large seabirds typically with grey or white plumage, often with black markings on the head. Most terns hunt fish by diving but some pick insects off the surface of fresh water. Terns are generally long-lived birds, with several species known to live in excess of 30 years.\n\n\nOrder: PhaethontiformesFamily: Phaethontidae\n\nTropicbirds are slender white birds of tropical oceans with exceptionally long central tail feathers. Their heads and long wings have black markings.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Oceanitidae\n\nThe storm-petrels are relatives of the petrels and are the smallest seabirds. They feed on planktonic crustaceans and small fish picked from the surface, typically while hovering. The flight is fluttering and sometimes bat-like.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Procellariidae\n\nThe procellariids are the main group of medium-sized \"true petrels\", characterised by united nostrils with medium septum and a long outer functional primary.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Fregatidae\n\nFrigatebirds are large seabirds usually found over tropical oceans. They are large, black and white, or completely black, with long wings and deeply forked tails. The males have coloured inflatable throat pouches. They do not swim or walk and cannot take off from a flat surface. Having the largest wingspan-to-body-weight ratio of any bird, they are essentially aerial, able to stay aloft for more than a week.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Sulidae\n\nThe sulids comprise the gannets and boobies. Both groups are medium to large coastal seabirds that plunge-dive for fish.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Pelecanidae\n\nPelicans are large water birds with a distinctive pouch under their beak. As with other members of the order Pelecaniformes, they have webbed feet with four toes.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Ardeidae\n\nThe family Ardeidae contains the bitterns, herons, and egrets. Herons and egrets are medium to large wading birds with long necks and legs. Bitterns tend to be shorter necked and more wary. Members of Ardeidae fly with their necks retracted, unlike other long-necked birds such as storks, ibises, and spoonbills.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Threskiornithidae\n\nThreskiornithidae is a family of large terrestrial and wading birds which includes the ibises and spoonbills. They have long, broad wings with 11 primary and about 20 secondary feathers. They are strong fliers and despite their size and weight, very capable soarers.\n\n\nOrder: AccipitriformesFamily: Pandionidae\n\nThe family Pandionidae contains only one species, the osprey. The osprey is a medium-large raptor which is a specialist fish-eater with a worldwide distribution.\n\n\nOrder: AccipitriformesFamily: Accipitridae\n\nAccipitridae is a family of birds of prey, which includes hawks, eagles, kites, harriers, and Old World vultures. These birds have powerful hooked beaks for tearing flesh from their prey, strong legs, powerful talons, and keen eyesight.\n\n\nOrder: StrigiformesFamily: Tytonidae\n\nBarn-owls are medium to large owls with large heads and characteristic heart-shaped faces. They have long strong legs with powerful talons.\n\n\nOrder: CoraciiformesFamily: Alcedinidae\n\nKingfishers are medium-sized birds with large heads, long pointed bills, short legs, and stubby tails.\n\n\nOrder: FalconiformesFamily: Falconidae\n\nFalconidae is a family of diurnal birds of prey. They differ from hawks, eagles, and kites in that they kill with their beaks instead of their talons.\n\n\nOrder: PsittaciformesFamily: Psittacidae\n\nParrots are small to large birds with a characteristic curved beak. Their upper mandibles have slight mobility in the joint with the skull and they have a generally erect stance. All parrots are zygodactyl, having the four toes on each foot placed two at the front and two to the back.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Tyrannidae\n\nTyrant flycatchers are passerine birds which occur throughout North and South America. They superficially resemble the Old World flycatchers, but are more robust and have stronger bills. They do not have the sophisticated vocal capabilities of the songbirds. Most, but not all, have plain colouring. As the name implies, most are insectivorous.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Vireonidae\n\nThe vireos are a group of small to medium-sized passerine birds restricted to the New World. They are typically greenish in colour and resemble New World warblers apart from their heavier bills.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Hirundinidae\n\nThe family Hirundinidae is adapted to aerial feeding. They have a slender streamlined body, long pointed wings, and a short bill with a wide gape. The feet are adapted to perching rather than walking, and the front toes are partially joined at the base.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Troglodytidae\n\nThe wrens are mainly small and inconspicuous except for their loud songs. These birds have short wings and thin down-turned bills. Several species often hold their tails upright. All are insectivorous.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Turdidae\n\nThe thrushes are a group of passerine birds that occur mainly in the Old World. They are plump, soft plumaged, small to medium-sized insectivores or sometimes omnivores, often feeding on the ground. Many have attractive songs.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Mimidae\n\nThe mimids are a family of passerine birds that includes thrashers, mockingbirds, tremblers, and the New World catbirds. These birds are notable for their vocalizations, especially their ability to mimic a wide variety of birds and other sounds heard outdoors. Their colouring tends towards dull-greys and browns.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Fringillidae\n\nFinches are seed-eating passerine birds, that are small to moderately large and have a strong beak, usually conical and in some species very large. All have twelve tail feathers and nine primaries. These birds have a bouncing flight with alternating bouts of flapping and gliding on closed wings, and most sing well.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Icteridae\n\nThe icterids are a group of small to medium-sized, often colourful, passerine birds restricted to the New World and include the grackles, New World blackbirds, and New World orioles. Most species have black as the predominant plumage colour, often enlivened by yellow, orange, or red.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Parulidae\n\nThe New World warblers are a group of small, often colourful, passerine birds restricted to the New World. Most are arboreal, but some are terrestrial. Most members of this family are insectivores.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Cardinalidae\n\nThe cardinals are a family of robust, seed-eating birds with strong bills. They are typically associated with open woodland. The sexes usually have distinct plumages.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Thraupidae\n\nThe tanagers are a large group of small to medium-sized passerine birds restricted to the New World, mainly in the tropics. Many species are brightly coloured. They are seed eaters, but their preference tends towards fruit and nectar. Most have short, rounded wings.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Passeridae\n\nSparrows are small passerine birds. In general, sparrows tend to be small, plump, brown or grey birds with short tails and short powerful beaks. Sparrows are seed eaters, but they also consume small insects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8366946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8366946", "title": "List of diplomatic missions of Antigua and Barbuda", "text": "List of diplomatic missions of Antigua and Barbuda\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions of Antigua and Barbuda. Antigua and Barbuda's diplomatic network does not extend to any neighbouring Caribbean countries. The country also has tourism representatives and honorary consulate in other countries (not listed below).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10809293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10809293", "title": "List of industrial regions", "text": "List of industrial regions\n\nIndustrial region or industrial area refers to a geographical region with extremely dense industry. It is usually heavily urbanized.\n\nIndustrial region Thracia is an industrial zone made up of several municipalities within the area of Plovdiv, Bulgaria.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39189808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39189808", "title": "List of international cricket centuries at the R. Premadasa Stadium", "text": "List of international cricket centuries at the R. Premadasa Stadium\n\nThe R. Premadasa Stadium is a cricket stadium in Maligawatta, Colombo, Sri Lanka. The stadium was, before June 1994, known as the Khettarama Cricket Stadium and is today one of the main venues where the Sri Lankan cricket team play, having hosted more than 100 one day international matches. It is the largest stadium in Sri Lanka with capacity of 35,000 spectators. It was also the stadium were the highest Test score was scored.\n\nThe ground staged its first Test in 1992 against Australia. The first One Day International was played in 1986 against Pakistan.\n\n\nThe following table summarises the Test centuries scored at the R. Premadasa Stadium.\n\nThe following table summarises the One Day International centuries scored at the R. Premadasa Stadium.\n\nThe following table summarises the Women's One Day international centuries scored at the R. Premadasa Stadium\n\n"}
{"id": "30372825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30372825", "title": "List of mountains and hills of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha", "text": "List of mountains and hills of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha\n\nThis is a list of mountains and hills in Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, listed by height.\n\n\"NB: Many of these hills and features are over 200m.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32309659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32309659", "title": "List of schools in Saint Lucia", "text": "List of schools in Saint Lucia\n\nThis is a list of schools in Saint Lucia.\n\nThere are 73 primary schools and 26 secondary schools in Saint Lucia. Sir Arthur Lewis Community College caters to students preparing for Cambridge post-secondary examinations. \n\nAll but three of the secondary schools in Saint Lucia are run by the Government of Saint Lucia through the Ministry of Education. St. Joseph's Convent and St. Mary's college are jointly run by the Ministry of Education and the Catholic Board of Education. The Seventh Day Adventist Academy is run by the Seventh Day Adventist Church. The International School St. Lucia is affiliated with Canada (New Brunswick and Ontario), The Montessori Centre St Lucia and Bonne Terre Preparatory School are privately run.\n\nAll but three of Saint Lucia's secondary schools are co-ed. St. Joseph's Convent is an all girls school. St. Mary's College is an all boys school.\nThe Girl's Vocational School is an all girls school. Ave Maria Primary and RC Boy's primary are the all girls and all boys primary schools respectively.\n\nSaint Lucia's first secondary school, St. Joseph's Convent, was founded by the Sisters of St. Joseph of Cluny in 1854.\n\nThe University of The West Indies offers a Challenge programme in Saint Lucia, administered at the campus of Sir Arthur Lewis Community College. Monroe College operates a campus in Saint Lucia.\n\nThere are three medical schools in Saint Lucia - American International Medical University, International American University, and Spartan Health Sciences University School of Medicine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19245463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19245463", "title": "Mahallah", "text": "Mahallah\n\nA mahallah, mahalla, mahallya, or mohalla, mëhallë ( '; '; '; '; ; ; or ), is a country subdivision or neighbourhood in parts of the Arab world, Balkans, Western and South Asia and nearby Nations.\n\n\nA mahalla is an Islamic congregation or parish in Russia and a number of countries once part of the Soviet Union. Typically, a mahalla supports a single mosque. An imam is seen as the spiritual head of a mahalla. A mahalla is directly subordinate to a muhtasib and a territorial muhtasibat. \n\n"}
{"id": "4393444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4393444", "title": "Markovi Kuli", "text": "Markovi Kuli\n\nMarkovi Kuli or Marko's Towers (, ) are situated to the northwest of Prilep, Macedonia just above the village of Varoš. The towers named after Serbian medieval Prince Marko Mrnjavčević are located on a 120–180 m high hill, surrounded by steep slopes covered with minute granite stones. The upper part of the former settlement can be reached from its north and south side.\n\nDuring the four-decade archaeological research, remnants indicating the existence of an early antique settlement — Keramija, were found. In the Roman period, this small village expanded into the southwest, a fact suggested by the several marble ornaments of an early Christian basilica.\nThe rampart on this terrain dates from the 13th and 14th centuries and is in good condition. The walls are about one meter thick and were built of limestone mortar and rest upon the large limestone rocks.\n\nInternal walls separated the acropolis into smaller areas. The palace of Serbian King Vukašin and his son Marko was also situated here. Its north gate has a compound foundation - an evidence for of numerous reconstructions of the space. According to some historical findings, until the second part of the 14th century and even later, this fortress was defended by only 40 soldiers.\nThe settlement was situated south of the acropolis on a surface of some 3,6 hectares. On its north side, there is a double gate, as well as a large guardhouse between the entrances. On the south wall there are three well-preserved towers.\n\nThe lowest zone of the rampart consists of a row of short walls drawn in a broken line. In the west side, there are graves inserted into the rock. In the 14th century, this part served as a temporary refuge of the local population from Turkish raids.\n\nAfter the death of King Marko in 1395, this settlement was taken by Ottoman forces. At this time the inhabitants of the former settlement migrated to a new settlement at the foot of Marko's towers. It was separated into several quarters and each had its own church. This new settlement from the 14th century was given the name Varoš which is still in use today.\n\n"}
{"id": "54896385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54896385", "title": "Mataniko Falls", "text": "Mataniko Falls\n\nMataniko Falls is a waterfall on the Mataniko River near Honiara in the Solomon Islands. Visitors can take a hike from the town of Lelei.\n"}
{"id": "14247213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14247213", "title": "Meyerton, Baker Island", "text": "Meyerton, Baker Island\n\nMeyerton is a former settlement on Baker Island. The town was named for Captain H. A. Meyer, United States Army, who in 1935 assisted in establishing living quarters and rainwater cisterns for colonists arriving on the island for the purpose of mining the guano deposits. It was located on the west side of the island, at an elevation of above sea level.\n\nIn 1935 American colonists arrived aboard the USCGC Itasca, the same vessel that brought colonists to neighboring Howland Island, on April 3, 1935. They built a lighthouse, substantial dwellings, and attempted to grow various plants.\n"}
{"id": "34633105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34633105", "title": "Mirny (sloop-of-war)", "text": "Mirny (sloop-of-war)\n\nMirny was a 20-gun sloop-of-war of the Imperial Russian Navy, the second ship of the First Russian Antarctic Expedition in 1819—1821, during which Fabian Gottlieb von Bellingshausen (commander of the lead ship \"Vostok\") and Mikhail Lazarev (commanding \"Mirny\") circumnavigated the globe, discovered the continent of Antarctica and twice circumnavigated it, and discovered a number of islands and archipelagos in the Southern Ocean and the Pacific.\n\n\"Mirny\" was under construction in 1818 at Olonetskaya Shipyards, Lodeynoye Pole. It was initially named \"Ladoga\" (after Lake Ladoga), but when a new ship became needed for an Antarctic expedition, the decision was taken not to build a completely new one, but to refit \"Ladoga\". It was reconstructed under surveillance of its future commander Mikhail Lazarev.\n\nOn \"Vostok\" under the captaincy of Commander Fabian Gottlieb von Bellingshausen, the leader of the expedition, alongside \"Mirny\" under the command of Lieutenant Commander Mikhail Lazarev left Kronshtadt and on reached the shore of Antarctica, which was sighted for the first time in history. After repair in Sydney in Australia, the expedition explored the tropical parts of the Pacific, and on again turned to Antarctica. On the sloops reached the southernmost point of their voyage at 69° 53' S and 92° 19' W. On they returned to Kronshtadt.\n\nIn 751 days they covered 49 723 miles (circa 92 300 km). Apart from the discovery of the world's sixth continent, Antarctica, 29 islands were mapped and complex oceanographic works carried out. A medal was issued by the Russian Admiralty to commemorate the expedition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1725136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1725136", "title": "NUTS statistical regions of the Netherlands", "text": "NUTS statistical regions of the Netherlands\n\nIn the NUTS (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics) codes of the 'Netherlands (NL), the three levels are:\n\nIn the 2003 version, Achterhoek was coded NL222, Arnhem/Nijmegen was coded NL223.\n\nBelow the NUTS levels, the two LAU (Local Administrative Units) levels are:\n\n\"The LAU codes of the Netherlands can be downloaded here:\" \"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16025094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16025094", "title": "Natural resources of Cambodia", "text": "Natural resources of Cambodia\n\nNatural resources are materials that occur in a natural form within environments. These can be classified as either biotic or abiotic on the basis of their origin. The landmass and the territorial waters of Cambodia contain a rather moderate amount, array and variety of resources. Apart from water, abiotic resources, such as minerals are generally rare. Still, advanced geo-scientific technologies have produced remarkable results and re-assessments in recent years, such as the localization of offshore oil and gas depots in the Gulf of Thailand. Cambodia, on the other hand possesses a relatively wide range of biotic resources, in particular timber, forest products, rare plants and a fauna of great diversity.\n\nCambodia comprises an undulating plateau in its eastern part, a continuous flat plain (the Lake Tonle Sap lowland) interrupted only by isolated hills (Phnoms) and the Mekong River in the central part of the country, highlands to the north and northeast and the Cardamom Mountains in the south-west. The agricultural area was estimated at in 2009, with estimated cultivated areas totaling . 96% of this area was used for annual crops and 3.8% for permanent crops.\n\nThe Cambodian hydro-logical system is dominated by the Mekong River and Tonle Sap Great Lake. From July to the end of October, when the level of the Mekong is high, water flows via the Tonle Sap River, increasing the size of the lake from 2,600 km2 to about at its maximum extent. The storage capacity of Tonle Sap Great Lake is about . When the level of the Mekong decreases, the Tonle Sap River reverses its flow and water flows back from the Tonle Sap Lake into the Mekong River. The Mekong flows from north to south, over a distance of around 480 km. About 86% of Cambodia’s territory () is included in the Mekong’s basin with the remaining 14% draining directly towards the Gulf of Thailand. Cambodia represents 20% of the total catchment area of the Mekong basin. Total internal renewable water resources have been estimated at over .\n\nThe country's hydroelectric generating potential is considerable, especially from the swift current of the middle Mekong River where it flows through the Stoeng Treng and Kracheh provinces. Other sites of minor importance are on rivers in the highlands of the northeastern and north-central parts of the country. Although the Tonle Sap is Cambodia's dominant hydraulic feature, the rivers flowing into this great lake have little or no exploitable potential. In general, development of the country's water potential appears to be more important for the expansion of irrigation than for the production of electricity. The largest hydroelctric dam in Cambodia is Lower Se San 2 Dam which began operation in November 2017 and scheduled for full operation by October 2018. Stung Treng Dam is a proposed hydroelectric dam with an average production of 4,870 GWh per year, almost 2.5 times the average production of Lower Se San 2.\n\nThe forests of Cambodia include evergreen, semi-evergreen, deciduous, swamp, mangrove and bamboo forest in various conditions from closed to disturbed and mosaic formations. There are also re-growth and plantation forests as well as open forest types including evergreen shrub land and dry deciduous shrub land. About 10% of Cambodia’s flora is endemic. Cover is largely dominated by moist lowland evergreen forest, semi-evergreen forest and deciduous forest. A unique seasonally inundated forest is found along the flood plains surrounding the Tonle Sap Lake. Extensive and fairly intact mangroves are found along the southern marine coast. forests, which cover approximately 70 percent of the country and which potentially constitute a second pillar of the economy in addition to the primary one, agriculture. A survey in the 1960s disclosed that Cambodia had more than 130,000 square kilometres of forests that contained many species of tropical growth and trees but not teak or other valuable sources of hardwood. Some destruction of the forest environment undoubtedly occurred in the war that followed in the 1970s, but its extent has not been determined. Most of the heavy fighting took place in areas uncovered by dense tropical jungle.\n\nAs of late 1987, forest resources had not yet been fully exploited because of poor security in the countryside and a lack of electrical and mechanical equipment, such as power tools and lumber trucks. Nevertheless, the Cambodian government reportedly has discussed with Vietnam the possibility of coordinated reforestation programs.\n\nTimber and firewood are the main forest products. Timber is considered one of the four economic initiatives of the government's First Plan. Timber production was projected to reach a peak of 200,000 cubic meters in 1990. However, timber production is employing underage children according to the Bureau of International Labor Affairs' \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\" and the percentage of working children aged 5 to 14 years old has reached 85% in the agricultural sector.\n\nTimber production has also had an important role in Cambodia's deforestation.\n\nCambodia is one of the most biodiverse countries in South East Asia. In 2010, the MoE submitted its Fourth National Report to the Convention on Biological Diversity (MoE/CBD, 2010) which includes information on overall biodiversity status, trends and threats; national strategies and action plans, and; an assessment of cross-sectoral integration of biodiversity considerations.\n\nThe main energy source in Cambodia is wood, accounting for 80% of national energy consumption (UNEP, 2010). Most households, even in urban areas, rely on traditional energy sources since fossil fuels are either not available or too expensive. 94% of the population living in rural areas relies on wood, charcoal, car batteries and kerosene (UNCDF, 2010). Most primitive fuels are sourced from forests; in rural areas in the form of fuel wood and in towns and cities as charcoal. The UNDP forecasts that wood-derived fuels will remain the main source of cooking energy in rural areas until 2030.\n\nCambodia's mineral resources are moderate and as a result the mining and quarry industry contributed only 0.39% of Cambodia's gross domestic product in 2005. The sector employed an estimated 19,000 people and accounted for only 0.2% of the country's total employment in 2005.\n\nGemstones - Gemstone areas - Rubies, sapphires, and zircons - are located in Samlot district of Battambang, Paillin, Ratanakkiri, and Takeo Province.\n\nIron ore - Hermatite (Fe203); Magnetite (Fe304); Limonite (2Fe203, 3H2O) - was found In the late 1950s and throughout the 1960s, however by Chinese experts in two areas, one located in Phnom Deck and the others located in Koh Keo of Preah Vihear Province, and Thalaborivath of Stung Treng Province. According to General Department of Mineral, the total iron reserves in Phnom Deck area are estimated at 5-6 million tons and possible reserves of high-grade iron ore, ranging from 2.5 million to 4.8 million tons, exist in the northern part of the country.\n\nGold - Gold deposits are to be found in the four provinces: Kampong Cham (The Rumchek in Memot area), Kampong Thom (Phnom Chi area), Preah Vihear (Phnom Deck in Roveing district), Ratanakiri (Oyadav district) and Mondulkiri.\n\nBauxite – was found in Battambang Province and Chhlong district in Mondulkiri Province.\n\nAntimony (Sb) – found in Sre Peang area, Pursat Province\n\nChromium (Cr) – found in Sre Peang area, Pursat Province\n\nManganese (Mn) - Chinese explorations revealed manganese ore reserves, estimated at about 120,000 tons, in Kampong Thom Province.\n\nPhosphates - A few thousand tons of phosphate are extracted annually in Kampot Province and processed locally or in Battambang Province.\n\nCoal - is found in Phum Talat on the east side of the Tonle San River, Stung Treng Province. There are 27 individual coal seams identified with a reserve of 7 million tons of coal.\n\nLimestone\n\nClay\n\nIn late 1969, the Cambodian government granted a permit to a French company to explore for petroleum in the Gulf of Thailand. By 1972 none had been located, and exploration ceased when the Khmer Republic (see Appendix B) fell in 1975. Subsequent oil and gas discoveries in the Gulf of Thailand and in the South China Sea, however, could spark renewed interest in Cambodia's offshore area, especially because the country is on the same continental shelf as its Southeast Asian oil-producing neighbors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7090760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7090760", "title": "Niue International Airport", "text": "Niue International Airport\n\nNiue International Airport , also known as Hanan International Airport, is an international airport serving the island nation of Niue. It is located near the town of Alofi and currently only serves Air New Zealand, flying to and from Auckland twice a week, departing Auckland on Tuesdays and Saturdays, and departing Niue on Mondays and Fridays.\n\nIt was opened in December 1970 at which time it was serviced by Fokker F.27 Friendship aircraft. For a period in the 1990s, Niue International Airport served as the base of Niue Airlines.\n"}
{"id": "58110835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58110835", "title": "Olympia (São Paulo)", "text": "Olympia (São Paulo)\n\nOlympia was a 5,000-capacity music venue located in the São Paulo, Brazil. It was open from 1988 until 2006. A few of the notable artists that performed at Olympia include David Bowie, Cyndi Lauper, Uriah Heep, Eric Clapton, Deep Purple, Jethro Tull, Black Sabbath, Pantera and Sting.\n"}
{"id": "3355336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3355336", "title": "Phuntsholing", "text": "Phuntsholing\n\nPhuntsholing, also spelled as Phuentsholing () is a border town in southern Bhutan and is the administrative seat of Chukha District. The town occupies parts of both Phuentsholing Gewog and Sampheling Gewog.\n\nPhuentsholing adjoins the Indian town of Jaigaon, and cross-border trade has resulted in a thriving local economy. The town has the headquarters of the Bank of Bhutan previously but shifted to Thimphu. In 2017, Phuentsholing had a population of 27,658.\n\nOn 5 April 1964, reformist Prime Minister Jigme Dorji was assassinated in Phuntsholing by monarchist cadres as the king lay ill in Switzerland. The Dorji family was subsequently put under close watch. It was 1958 when the first one-storeyed cottage was constructed it housed a shop. The late Prime Minister, Jigme Dorji informed Phuentsholing residents that concrete houses could be constructed.\nTashi group of companies constructed the first concrete house, followed by Tibetans and Indians. Some of the structures that exist to this day are the buildings housing Bhutan Enterprise, Jatan Prasad Lal Chand Prasad shop and a beauty parlour near Zantdopelri lhakhang. After the announcement, 18 shops were built around Zangdopelri area. The Zangdopelri area was a bus terminal, and on Saturday a market would be assembled. Apart from the cottages, there were several huts and Phuentsholing was beginning to grow.\n\nThe India-Bhutan border at Phuntsholing clearly separates two very different peoples and cultures. Jaigaon across the border is larger, bustling and loud, similar to many other West Bengal centres of commerce, albeit with many Bhutanese shoppers. Phuntsholing is uniquely more urban than other Bhutanese towns as it is the Bhutan financial, industrial and trading capital. It has been affected a little by the neighbouring culture, but is distinctly far more quiet and orderly than its neighbour.\n\nAs the majority of goods traded go into Bhutan through Phuntsholing, the town is the gateway to Bhutan for trade with India.\n\nThe border is separated by a long wall with a single Bhutanese gate. Locals can sometimes even cross without being asked for papers. Tourists from India, Bangladesh and Maldives do not need visa to enter Bhutan but have to show proof of identity such as passport or voter ID card and apply for a permit at Phuntsholing to enter Bhutan. Other foreigners need a visa presented by a hired registered tour guide. The entry gate into the town is manned by the Indian Army and Bhutanese Army guards. The terrain inclines soon after the gate.\n\nThe town does not have an airport or railway. Indian Railways has railway stations nearby. A railway track has been planned from the nearest railway station Hashimara in North Bengal to Phuntsholing.\n\nSiliguri is the nearest large city in India. New Jalpaiguri and New Alipurduar are nearest large railway junctions. Bus are available from the towns in north Bengal. Buses are operated by both travel Indian and Bhutanese government operators. Once at Phuntsholing, the Lateral Road gives travelers access to the rest of Bhutan.\n\nFrom almost anywhere in the city, one can see the road to Thimphu snaking up the hillside, and in the evening it is easy to see the headlights of distant vehicles heading towards the capital. Opposite the big ground PSA is the road that connects rest of cities of Bhutan.The Lateral Road, Bhutan's main highway, begins in Phuntsholing and winds some to Trashigang in the east.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52392386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52392386", "title": "Pico Teneriffe (Barbados)", "text": "Pico Teneriffe (Barbados)\n\nThe Pico Teneriffe, is a rocky cape on the northeast coast of the island of Barbados, in the Parish of Saint Peter.\n\nIt is a coral cliff in the shape of a pinnacle that does not reach 100 meters in height, named after the fact that the island of Tenerife in Spain is the first land east of Barbados, according to the inhabitants of the place. The presence in the place of people arrived from the Canary Islands in the time of the colonization of Barbados is not ruled out, but unlikely.\n\n"}
{"id": "5234768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5234768", "title": "Piet Oudolf", "text": "Piet Oudolf\n\nPiet Oudolf (; born 27 October 1944) is an influential Dutch garden designer, plant nursery man and author. He is a leading figure of the \"New Perennial\" movement — his designs and plant compositions using bold drifts of herbaceous perennials and grasses which are chosen at least as much for their structure as for their flower colour.\n\nWorking primarily with perennial plant varieties, Oudolf practices a naturalistic approach to gardening. Taking a cue from architectural design, Oudolf prioritizes the seasonal life cycle of a plant over decorative considerations like flower or colour. He focuses primarily on structural characteristics, such as leaf or seed pod shape, present before and after a plant has flowered. He explains: \"A garden is exciting for me when it looks good through the year, not just at one particular time. I want to go outside and for it to be interesting in all weather, in early spring and late autumn.\"\n\nThe stability of perennials after planting are key to Oudolf's designs, especially the use of long-lived clump-forming species. The result are gardens that persist in their planned state years after being planted with little deviation from Oudolf's hand drawn maps.\n\nOudolf's overall approach to planting has evolved since the 1980s when he and his wife Anja opened their nursery, at Hummelo, in Gelderland. His early work with perennials consisted of block-type groupings based on structure and texture. More recently Oudolf's gardens has experimented with a variety of approaches, which, broadly speaking, are more naturalistic, often using blends of species. The change in style has been described as a shift from a painter's perspective to one informed by ecology. It was first introduced into Oudolf's public work in 2004 as part of the Lurie Garden in Chicago. The approach can be seen in the New York High Line project. \n\n\n\nHis own garden, at Hummelo, near Arnhem in the Netherlands was established in 1982. It has gone through many changes which reflect Oudolf's constantly developing planting design. Initially it was designed with a series of yew (\"Taxus baccata\") hedges and blocks, reflecting Oudolf's architectural style which owed much to Mien Ruys, the designer who dominated Dutch garden design in the post-war period.\n\nOudolf's work on the High Line relied heavily on plants native to the region. A matrix of grasses with perennials grouped throughout was used to convey how the plants grow and intermingle in the wild.\n\nHis books include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4201619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4201619", "title": "President of Palau", "text": "President of Palau\n\nThe President of the Republic of Palau is the head of government and head of state of Palau. The president is directly elected to a four year term, and can be reelected once.\n\nAll officeholders are political independents. \n\n"}
{"id": "2248681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248681", "title": "Range state", "text": "Range state\n\nRange state is a term generally used in zoogeography and conservation biology to refer to any nation that exercises jurisdiction over any part of a range which a particular species, taxon or biotope inhabits, or crosses or overflies at any time on its normal migration route. The term is often expanded to \"also\" include, particularly in international waters, any nation with vessels flying their flag that engage in exploitation (e.g. hunting, fishing, capturing) of that species. Countries in which a species occurs only as a vagrant or ‘accidental’ visitor outside of its normal range or migration route are not usually considered range states. \n\nBecause governmental conservation policy is often formulated on a national scale, and because in most countries, both governmental and private conservation organisations are also organised at the national level, the range state concept is often used by international conservation organizations in formulating their conservation and campaigning policy. \n\nAn example of one such organization is the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS, or the “Bonn Convention”). It is a multilateral treaty focusing on the conservation of critically endangered and threatened migratory species, their habitats and their migration routes. Because such habitats and/or migration routes may span national boundaries, conservation efforts are less likely to succeed without the cooperation, participation, and coordination of each of the range states. \n\n \n"}
{"id": "840785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=840785", "title": "Sidney Edwards Morse", "text": "Sidney Edwards Morse\n\nSidney Edwards Morse (7 February 1794 Charlestown, Massachusetts – 24 December 1871 New York City) was an American inventor, geographer and journalist. He was the brother of telegraphy pioneer and painter Samuel F. B. Morse.\n\nHe was the son of geographer and clergyman Jedidiah Morse. He graduated from Yale in 1811, studied theology at Andover Seminary, and law at the Litchfield, Connecticut, school. Meanwhile, he became a contributor to the \"Columbian Centinel\" of Boston, writing a series of articles that illustrated the danger to the American Union from an undue multiplication of new states in the south, and showing that it would give to a sectional minority the control of the government. These led to his being invited by Jeremiah Evarts and others to found a weekly religious newspaper, to which he gave the name \"Boston Recorder\". He continued as sole editor and proprietor of this journal for more than a year, and in this time raised its circulation until it was exceeded by that of only two Boston papers. Morse was then associated with his elder brother, Samuel Morse, in patenting the flexible piston pump and extending its sale.\n\nIn 1823 he moved to New York, and with his brother, Richard Cary Morse, founded the \"New York Observer\", which eventually became the oldest weekly in New York City, and the oldest religious newspaper in the state. He continued as senior editor and proprietor until 1858, when he retired to private life.\n\nIn 1839 was associated with Henry A. Munson in the development of cerography, a method of printing maps in color on the common printing press. He used this process to illustrate the geographical textbooks that he published, and in early life he assisted his father in the preparation of works of that character. The last years of his life were devoted to experimenting with an invention for the rapid exploration of the depths of the sea. This instrument, called a bathyometer, was exhibited at the World's fair in Paris in 1869, and during 1870 in New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "149274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149274", "title": "Slavonia", "text": "Slavonia\n\nSlavonia (; ) is, with Dalmatia, Croatia proper and Istria, one of the four historical regions of Croatia. Taking up the east of the country, it roughly corresponds with five Croatian counties: Brod-Posavina, Osijek-Baranja, Požega-Slavonia, Virovitica-Podravina and Vukovar-Srijem, although the territory of the counties includes Baranya, and the definition of the western extent of Slavonia as a region varies. The counties cover or 22.2% of Croatia, inhabited by 806,192—18.8% of Croatia's population. The largest city in the region is Osijek, followed by Slavonski Brod and Vinkovci.\n\nSlavonia is located in the Pannonian Basin, largely bordered by the Danube, Drava and Sava rivers. In the west, the region consists of the Sava and Drava valleys and the mountains surrounding the Požega Valley, and plains in the east. Slavonia enjoys a moderate continental climate, with relatively low precipitation.\n\nAfter the fall of Rome, which ruled the area of modern-day Slavonia until the 5th century, Ostrogoths and Lombards controlled the area before the arrival of Avars and Slavs, when the Principality of Lower Pannonia was established in the 7th century. It was later incorporated into the Kingdom of Croatia and, after its decline, the kingdom was ruled through a personal union with Hungary.\n\nThe Ottoman conquest of Slavonia took place in 1536 to 1552. In 1699, after the Great Turkish War, Slavonia was transferred to the Habsburgs. Reform of the empire through the Compromise of 1867 assigned it to the Hungarian part of the realm, and a year later to the Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia. In 1918, when Austria-Hungary dissolved, Slavonia was a part of the short-lived State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs which in turn became a part of the kingdom later renamed Yugoslavia. During the Croatian War of Independence, Slavonia saw fierce fighting, including the Battle of Vukovar.\n\nThe economy of Slavonia is largely based on processing industry, trade, transport and civil engineering. Agriculture is a significant component of its economy: Slavonia contains 45% of Croatia's agricultural land and accounts for a significant proportion of Croatia's livestock farming and production of permanent crops. The gross domestic product (GDP) of the five counties of Slavonia is worth 6,454 million euro or 8,005 euro per capita, 27.5% below national average. The GDP of the five counties represents 13.6% of Croatia's GDP.\n\nThe cultural heritage of Slavonia is a blend of historical influences, especially those since the end of the 17th century, when Slavonia started recovering from the Ottoman wars, and its traditional culture. Slavonia contributed to the culture of Croatia, through art, writers, poets and art patronage. In traditional music, Slavonia is a distinct region of Croatia, and the traditional culture is preserved through folklore festivals, with prominence given to tamburica music and bećarac, a form of traditional song, recognized as an intangible cultural heritage by UNESCO. The cuisine of Slavonia reflects diverse influences—a blend of traditional and foreign elements. Slavonia is one of Croatia's winemaking areas, with Ilok and Kutjevo recognized as centres of wine production.\n\nThe name \"Slavonia\" originated in the Early Middle Ages. The area was named after the Slavs who settled there and called themselves *Slověne. The root *Slověn- appeared in various dialects of languages spoken by people inhabiting the area west of the Sutla river, as well as between the Sava and Drava rivers—South Slavs living in the area of the former Illyricum. The area bounded by those rivers was called *Slověnьje in the Proto-Slavic language. The word subsequently evolved to its various present forms in the Slavic languages, and other languages adopted the term.\n\nRemnants of several Neolithic and Chalcolithic cultures were found in all regions of Croatia, but most of the sites are found in the river valleys of northern Croatia, including Slavonia. The most significant cultures whose presence was found include the Starčevo culture whose finds were discovered near Slavonski Brod and dated to 6100–5200 BC, Vučedol and Baden cultures. Most finds attributed to the Baden and Vučedol cultures are discovered in the area around Vukovar, extending to Osijek and Vinkovci. The Baden culture sites in Slavonia are dated to 3600–3300 BC, and Vučedol culture finds are dated to 3000–2500 BC. The Iron Age left traces of the early Illyrian Hallstatt culture and the Celtic La Tène culture. Much later, the region was settled by Illyrians and other tribes, including the Pannonians, who controlled much of present-day Slavonia. Even though archaeological finds of Illyrian settlements are much sparser than in areas closer to the Adriatic Sea, significant discoveries, for instance in Kaptol near Požega have been made. The Pannonians first came into contact with the Roman Republic in 35 BC, when the Romans conquered Segestica, or modern-day Sisak. The conquest was completed in 11 BC, when the Roman province of Illyricum was established, encompassing modern-day Slavonia as well as a vast territory on the right bank of Danube. The province was renamed Pannonia and divided within two decades.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Western Roman Empire, which included the territory occupied by modern-day Slavonia, the area became a part of the Ostrogothic Kingdom by the end of the 5th century. However, control of the area proved a significant task, and Lombards were given increasing control of Pannonia in the 6th century, which ended in their withdrawal in 568 and the arrival of Pannonian Avars and Slavs, who established control of Pannonia by year 582. According to the work \"De Administrando Imperio\" written by the 10th century Byzantine Emperor Constantine VII, the Croats had arrived in the early 7th century in the then region of Dalmatia, although this is disputed and competing hypotheses date the event between the 6th and the 9th centuries. Eventually a dukedom was formed, Duchy of Dalmatia, ruled by Borna, as attested to by the chronicles of Einhard, starting in the year 818. This record represents the first document of the Croatian state, vassal of Francia at the time. The Frankish overlordship ended during the reign of Mislav two decades later.\n\nTomislav was the first ruler of Croatia to be styled a king. That occurred in a letter from Pope John X, dating the kingdom of Croatia to 925. Tomislav defeated Hungarian and Bulgarian invasions, spreading the influence of Croatian kings northward to Slavonia. The medieval Croatian kingdom reached its peak in the 11th century during the reigns of Petar Krešimir IV (1058–1074) and Dmitar Zvonimir (1075–1089). When Stjepan II died in 1091, ending the Trpimirović dynasty, Ladislaus I of Hungary claimed the Croatian crown. Opposition to the claim led to a war and personal union of Croatia and Hungary in 1102, ruled by Coloman. For the next four centuries, Slavonia was ruled as a part of the Kingdom of Croatia by the Sabor (parliament), and a ban (viceroy) appointed by the king. The period saw increasing territorial losses to Ottoman conquest. The Ottoman conquests led to the 1493 Battle of Krbava field and 1526 Battle of Mohács, both ending in decisive Ottoman victories. King Louis II of Hungary died at Mohács, and Ferdinand I of the House of Habsburg was elected in 1527 as the new ruler of Croatia, under the condition that he provide protection to Croatia against the Ottoman Empire, while respecting its political rights. The period saw the rise to prominence of a native nobility such as the Frankopans and the Šubićs, and ultimately to numerous bans from the two families. The present coat of arms of Slavonia, used in an official capacity as a part of the coat of arms of Croatia, dates from this period—it was granted to Slavonia by king Vladislaus II Jagiellon on 8 December 1496.\n\nFollowing the Battle of Mohács, the Ottomans expanded their possessions in Slavonia seizing Đakovo in 1536 and Požega in 1537, defeating a Habsburg army led by Johann Katzianer, who was attempting to retake Slavonia, at Gorjani in September 1537. By 1540, Osijek was also under firm control of the Ottomans, and regular administration in Slavonia was introduced by establishing the Sanjak of Pojega. The Ottoman control in Slavonia expanded as Novska surrendered the same year. Turkish conquest continued—Našice were seized in 1541, Orahovica and Slatina in 1542, and in 1543, Voćin, Sirač and, after a 40-day siege, Valpovo. In 1544, Ottoman forces conquered Pakrac. Lessening hostilities brought about a five-year truce in 1547 and temporary stabilization of the border between Habsburg and Ottoman empires, with Virovitica becoming the most significant defensive Habsburg fortress and Požega the most significant Ottoman centre in Slavonia, as Ottoman advances to Sisak and Čazma were made, including a brief occupation of the cities. Further westward efforts of the Turkish forces presented a significant threat to Zagreb and the rest of Croatia and the Hungarian kingdom, prompting a greater defensive commitment by the Habsburg Empire. One year after the 1547 truce ended, Ivan Lenković devised a system of fortifications and troops in the border areas, a forerunner of the Croatian Military Frontier. Nonetheless, in 1552, the Ottoman conquest of Slavonia was completed when Virovitica was captured. Ottoman advances in the Croatian territory continued until the 1593 Battle of Sisak, the first decisive Ottoman defeat, and a more lasting stabilisation of the frontier. During the Great Turkish War (1683–1698), Slavonia was regained in between 1684 and 1691 when the Ottomans abandoned the region—unlike western Bosnia, which had been part of Croatia before the Ottoman conquest. The present-day southern border of Slavonia and the border between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina is a remnant of this outcome.\n\nThe Ottoman wars instigated great demographic changes. Croats migrated towards Austria and the present-day Burgenland Croats are direct descendants of these settlers. To replace the fleeing Croats, the Habsburgs called on the Orthodox populations of Bosnia and Serbia to provide military service in the Croatian Military Frontier. Serb migration into this region peaked during the Great Serb Migrations of 1690 and 1737–39.\n\nThe areas acquired through the Treaty of Karlowitz were assigned to Croatia, itself in the union with Hungary and the union ruled by the Habsburgs. The border area along the Una, Sava and Danube rivers became the Slavonian Military Frontier. At this time, Osijek took over the role of the administrative and military centre of the newly formed Kingdom of Slavonia from Požega. The 1830s and 1840s saw romantic nationalism inspire the Croatian National Revival, a political and cultural campaign advocating unity of all South Slavs in the empire. Its primary focus was the establishment of a standard language as a counterweight to Hungarian, along with the promotion of Croatian literature and culture. During the Hungarian Revolution of 1848 Croatia sided with the Austrians, Ban Josip Jelačić helping to defeat the Hungarian forces in 1849, and ushering in a period of Germanization policy. By the 1860s, failure of the policy became apparent, leading to the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867 and creation of a personal union between the crowns of the Austrian Empire and the Kingdom of Hungary. The treaty left the issue of Croatia's status to Hungary as a part of Transleithania—and the status was resolved by the Croatian–Hungarian Settlement of 1868, when the kingdoms of Croatia and Slavonia were united as the Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia. After Austria-Hungary occupied Bosnia and Herzegovina following the 1878 Treaty of Berlin, the Military Frontiers were abolished and the Croatian and Slavonian Military Frontier territory returned to Croatia-Slavonia in 1881, pursuant to provisions of the Croatian-Hungarian Settlement. At that time, the easternmost point of Croatia-Slavonia became Zemun, as all of Syrmia was encompassed by the kingdom.\n\nOn 29 October 1918, the Croatian Sabor declared independence and decided to join the newly formed State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs, which in turn entered into union with the Kingdom of Serbia on 4 December 1918 to form the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes. The Treaty of Trianon was signed in 1920, at the end of World War I, between the Allies of World War I and Hungary as one of the successor states to Austria-Hungary. The treaty established the southern border of Hungary along the Drava and Mura rivers, except in Baranya, where only the northern part of the county was kept by Hungary. The territorial acquisition in Baranya was not made a part of Slavonia, even though adjacent to Osijek, because pre-1918 administrative divisions were disestablished by the new kingdom. The political situation in the new kingdom deteriorated, leading to the dictatorship of King Alexander in January 1929. The dictatorship formally ended in 1931 when the king imposed a more unitarian constitution transferring executive power to the king, and changed the name of the country to Yugoslavia. The Cvetković–Maček Agreement of August 1939 created the autonomous Banovina of Croatia incorporating Slavonia. Pursuant to the agreement, the Yugoslav government retained control of defence, internal security, foreign affairs, trade, and transport while other matters were left to the Croatian Sabor and a crown-appointed 'Ban'.\n\nIn April 1941, Yugoslavia was occupied by Germany and Italy. Following the invasion the territory of Slavonia was incorporated into the Independent State of Croatia, a Nazi-backed puppet state and assigned as a zone under German occupation for the duration of World War II. The regime introduced anti-semitic laws and conducted a campaign of ethnic cleansing and genocide against Serb and Roma populations, exemplified by the Jasenovac and Stara Gradiška concentration camps. Armed resistance soon developed in the region, and by 1942, it controlled substantial territories, especially in mountainous parts of Slavonia. Yugoslav Partisans led by Josip Broz Tito took full control of Slavonia in April 1945.\n\nAfter World War II, Croatia—including Slavonia—became a single-party Socialist federal unit of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, ruled by the Communists, but enjoying a degree of autonomy within the federation. The autonomy effectively increased after the 1974 Yugoslav Constitution, basically fulfilling a goal of the Croatian Spring movement, and providing a legal basis for independence of the federative constituents. In 1947, when all borders of the former Yugoslav constituent republics had been defined by demarcation commissions, pursuant to decisions of the AVNOJ of 1943 and 1945, the federal organization of \"Yugoslav Baranya\" was defined as Croatian territory allowing its integration with Slavonia. The commissions also set up the present-day border between Serbia and Croatia in Syrmia, and along the Danube River between Ilok and mouth of the Drava and further north to the Hungarian border, the section south of confluence of the Drava matching the border between the Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia and the Bács-Bodrog County that existed until 1918 and the end of World War I.\n\nIn the 1980s the political situation in Yugoslavia deteriorated with national tension fanned by the 1986 Serbian SANU Memorandum and the 1989 coups in Vojvodina, Kosovo and Montenegro. In January 1990, the Communist Party fragmented along national lines, with the Croatian faction demanding a looser federation. In the same year, the first multi-party elections were held in Croatia, with Franjo Tuđman's win raising nationalist tensions further. The Serbs in Croatia, intent on achieving independence from Croatia, left the Sabor and declared the autonomy of areas that would soon become the unrecognized Republic of Serbian Krajina (RSK). As tensions rose, Croatia declared independence in June 1991; however the declaration came into effect on 8 October 1991. Tensions escalated into the Croatian War of Independence when the Yugoslav National Army and various Serb paramilitaries attacked Croatia. By the end of 1991, a high intensity war fought along a wide front reduced Croatia to controlling about two-thirds of its territory.\nIn Slavonia, the first armed conflicts were clashes in Pakrac, and Borovo Selo near Vukovar. Western Slavonia was occupied in August 1991, following an advance by the Yugoslav forces north from Banja Luka across the Sava River. This was partially pushed back by the Croatian Army in operations named Otkos 10, and Orkan 91, which established a front line around Okučani and south of Pakrac that would hold virtually unchanged for more than three years until Operation Flash in May 1995. Armed conflict in the eastern Slavonia, culminating in the Battle of Vukovar and a subsequent massacre, also included heavy fighting and the successful defence of Osijek and Vinkovci. The front line stabilized and a ceasefire was agreed to on 2 January 1992, coming into force the next day. After the ceasefire, United Nations Protection Force was deployed to the occupied areas, but intermittent artillery and rocket attacks, launched from Serb-held areas of Bosnia, continued in several areas of Slavonia, especially in Slavonski Brod and Županja. The war effectively ended in 1995 with Croatia achieving a decisive victory over the RSK in August 1995. The remaining occupied areas—eastern Slavonia—were restored to Croatia pursuant to the Erdut Agreement of November 1995, with the process concluded in mid-January 1998.\n\nThe Croatian counties were re-established in 1992, but their borders changed in some instances, with the latest revision taking place in 2006. Slavonia consists of five counties—Brod-Posavina, Osijek-Baranja, Požega-Slavonia, Virovitica-Podravina and Vukovar-Srijem counties—which largely cover the territory historically associated with Slavonia. The western borders of the five-county territory lie in the area where the western boundary of Slavonia generally has been located since the Ottoman conquest, with the remaining borders being at the international borders of Croatia. This places the Croatian part of Baranya into the Slavonian counties, constituting the Eastern Croatia macroregion. Terms \"Eastern Croatia\" and \"Slavonia\" are increasingly used as synonyms. The Brod-Posavina County comprises two cities—Slavonski Brod and Nova Gradiška—and 26 Municipalities of Croatia. The Osijek-Baranja County consists of seven cities—Beli Manastir, Belišće, Donji Miholjac, Đakovo, Našice, Osijek and Valpovo—and 35 municipalities. The Požega-Slavonia County comprises five cities—Kutjevo, Lipik, Pakrac, Pleternica and Požega—and five municipalities. The Virovitica-Podravina County covers three cities—Orahovica, Slatina and Virovitica—and 13 municipalities. The Vukovar-Srijem County encompasses five cities—Ilok, Otok, Vinkovci, Vukovar and Županja—and 26 municipalities. The whole of Slavonia is the eastern half of Central and Eastern (Pannonian) Croatia NUTS-2 statistical unit of Croatia, together with further areas of Central Croatia. Other statistical units correspond to the counties, cities and municipalities. The five counties combined cover area size of , representing 22.2% of territory of Croatia.\n\nThe boundaries of Slavonia, as a geographical region, do not necessarily coincide with the borders of the five counties, except in the south and east where the Sava and Danube rivers define them. The international borders of Croatia are boundaries common to both definitions of the region. In the north, the boundaries largely coincide because the Drava River is considered to be the northern border of Slavonia as a geographic region, but this excludes Baranya from the geographic region's definition even though this territory is part of a county otherwise associated with Slavonia. The western boundary of the geographic region is not specifically defined and it was variously defined through history depending on the political divisions of Croatia. The eastern Croatia, as a geographic term, largely overlaps most definitions of Slavonia. It is defined as the territory of the Brod-Posavina, Osijek-Baranja, Požega-Slavonia, Virovitica-Podravina and Vukovar-Syrmia counties, including Baranya.\n\nSlavonia is entirely located in the Pannonian Basin, one of three major geomorphological parts of Croatia. The Pannonian Basin took shape through Miocenian thinning and subsidence of crust structures formed during Late Paleozoic Variscan orogeny. The Paleozoic and Mesozoic structures are visible in Papuk and other Slavonian mountains. The processes also led to the formation of a stratovolcanic chain in the basin 17 – 12 Mya (million years ago) and intensified subsidence observed until 5 Mya as well as flood basalts about 7.5 Mya. Contemporary uplift of the Carpathian Mountains prevented water flowing to the Black Sea, and the Pannonian Sea formed in the basin. Sediments were transported to the basin from uplifting Carpathian and Dinaric mountains, with particularly deep fluvial sediments being deposited in the Pleistocene during the uplift of the Transdanubian Mountains. Ultimately, up to of the sediment was deposited in the basin, and the Pannonian sea eventually drained through the Iron Gate gorge. In the southern Pannonian Basin, the Neogene to Quaternary sediment depth is normally lower, averaging , except in central parts of depressions formed by subduction—around in the Slavonia-Syrmia depression, in the Sava depression and nearly in the Drava depression, with the deepest sediment found between Virovitica and Slatina.\n\nThe results of those processes are large plains in eastern Slavonia, Baranya and Syrmia, as well as in river valleys, especially along the Sava, Drava and Kupa. The plains are interspersed by the horst and graben structures, believed to have broken the Pannonian Sea surface as islands. The tallest among such landforms in Slavonia are Psunj, and Papuk—flanking the Požega Valley from the west and the north. These two and Krndija, adjacent to Papuk, consist mostly of Paleozoic rocks which are 350 – 300 million years old. Požeška Gora and Dilj, to the east of Psunj and enveloping the valley from the south, consist of much more recent Neogene rocks, but Požeška Gora also contains Upper Cretaceous sediments and igneous rocks forming the main, ridge of the hill and representing the largest igneous landform in Croatia. A smaller igneous landform is also present on Papuk, near Voćin. The two mountains, as well as Moslavačka gora, west of Pakrac, are possible remnants of a volcanic arc related to Alpine orogeny—uplifting of the Dinaric Alps. The Đakovo – Vukovar loess plain, extending eastward from Dilj and representing the watershed between the Vuka and Bosut rivers, gradually rises to the Fruška Gora south of Ilok.\n\nThe largest rivers in Slavonia are found along or near its borders—the Danube, Sava and Drava. The length of the Danube, flowing along the eastern border of Slavonia and through the cities of Vukovar and Ilok, is , and its main tributaries are the Drava and the Vuka. The Drava discharges into the Danube near Aljmaš, east of Osijek, while mouth of the Vuka is located in Vukovar. Major tributaries of the Sava, flowing along the southern border of Slavonia and through cities of Slavonski Brod and Županja are the Orljava flowing through Požega, and the Bosut—whose course in Slavonia takes it through Vinkovci. There are no large lakes in Slavonia. The largest ones are Lake Kopačevo whose surface area varies between , and Borovik Reservoir covering . The Lake Kopačevo is connected to the Danube via Hulovski canal, situated within the Kopački Rit wetland, while the Lake Borovik is an artificial lake created in 1978 in the upper course of the Vuka River.\n\nThe entire Slavonia belongs to the Danube basin and the Black Sea catchment area, but it is divided in two sub-basins. One of those drains into the Sava—itself a Danube tributary—and the other into the Drava or directly into the Danube. The drainage divide between the two sub-basins runs along Papuk and Krndija mountains, in effect tracing the southern boundary of the Virovitica-Podravina County and the northern boundary of Požega-Slavonia County, cuts through the Osijek-Podravina County north of Đakovo and finally bisects the Vukovar-Syrmia County running between Vukovar and Vinkovci to reach Fruška Gora southwest of Ilok. The Entire Brod-Posavina County is located in the Sava sub-basin.\n\nMost of Croatia, including Slavonia, has a moderately warm and rainy continental climate as defined by the Köppen climate classification. Mean annual temperature averages , with the warmest month, July, averaging just below . Temperature peaks are more pronounced in the continental areas—the lowest temperature of was recorded on 24 January 1963 in Slavonski Brod, and the highest temperature of was recorded on 5 July 1950 in Đakovo. The least precipitation is recorded in the eastern parts of Slavonia at less than per year, however in the latter case, it mostly occurs during the growing season. The western parts of Slavonia receive precipitation. Low winter temperatures and the distribution of precipitation throughout the year normally result in snow cover, and freezing rivers—requiring use of icebreakers, and in extreme cases explosives, to maintain the flow of water and navigation. Slavonia receives more than 2,000 hours of sunshine per year on average. Prevailing winds are light to moderate, northeasterly and southwesterly.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, the total population of the five counties of Slavonia was 806,192, accounting for 19% of population of Croatia. The largest portion of the total population lives in Osijek-Baranja county, followed by Vukovar-Syrmia county. Požega-Slavonia county is the least populous county of Slavonia. Overall the population density stands at 64.2 persons per square kilometre. The population density ranges from 77.6 to 40.9 persons per square kilometre, with the highest density recorded in Brod-Posavina county and the lowest in Virovitica-Podravina county. Osijek is the largest city in Slavonia, followed by Slavonski Brod, Vinkovci and Vukovar. Other cities in Slavonia have populations below 20,000. According to the 2001 census, Croats account for 85.6 percent of population of Slavonia, and the most significant ethnic minorities are Serbs and Hungarians, comprising 8.8 percent and 1.4 percent of the population respectively. The largest portion of the Serb minority was recorded in Vukovar-Syrmia county (15 percent), while the largest Hungarian minority, in both relative and absolute terms, was observed in Osijek-Baranja county. The census recorded 85.4% of the population declaring themselves as Catholic, with further 4.4% belonging to Serbian Orthodox Church and 0.7% Muslims. 3.1% declared themselves as non-religious, agnostics or declined to declare their religion. The most widely used language in the region is Croatian, declared as the first language by 93.6% of the total population, followed by Serbian (2.6%) and Hungarian (1.0%).\n\nThe demographic history of Slavonia is characterised by significant migrations, as is that of Croatia as a whole, starting with the arrival of the Croats, between the 6th and 9th centuries. Following the establishment of the personal union of Croatia and Hungary in 1102, and the joining of the Habsburg Empire in 1527, the Hungarian and German speaking population of Croatia began gradually increasing in number. The processes of Magyarization and Germanization varied in intensity but persisted until the beginning of the 20th century. The Ottoman conquests initiated a westward migration of parts of the Croatian population; the Burgenland Croats are direct descendants of some of those settlers. To replace the fleeing Croats the Habsburgs called on the Orthodox populations of Bosnia and Serbia to provide military service in the Croatian Military Frontier. Serb migration into this region peaked during the Great Serb Migrations of 1690 and 1737–39. Following the collapse of Austria-Hungary in 1918, the Hungarian population declined, due to emigration and ethnic bias. The changes were especially significant in the areas north of the Drava river, and Baranja County where they represented the majority before World War I.\n\nSince the end of the 19th century there was substantial economic emigration abroad from Croatia in general. After World War I, the Yugoslav regime confiscated up to 50 percent of properties and encouraged settlement of the land by Serb volunteers and war veterans in Slavonia, only to have them evicted and replaced by up to 70,000 new settlers by the regime during World War II. During World War II and in the period immediately following the war, there were further significant demographic changes, as the German-speaking population, the Danube Swabians, were either forced or otherwise compelled to leave—reducing their number from the prewar German population of Yugoslavia of 500,000, living in Slavonia and other parts of present-day Croatia and Serbia, to the figure of 62,000 recorded in the 1953 census. The 1940s and the 1950s in Yugoslavia were marked by colonisation of settlements where the displaced Germans used to live, by people from the mountainous parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Montenegro, and migrations to larger cities spurred on by the development of industry. In the 1960s and 1970s, another wave of economic migrants left—largely moving to Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Western Europe.\n\nThe most recent changes to the ethnic composition of Slavonian counties occurred between censuses conducted in 1991 and 2001. The 1991 census recorded a heterogenous population consisting mostly of Croats and Serbs—at 72 percent and 17 percent of the total population respectively. The Croatian War of Independence, and the ethnic fracturing of Yugoslavia that preceded it, caused an exodus of the Croat population followed by an exodus of Serbs. The return of refugees since the end of hostilities is not complete—a majority of Croat refugees returned, while fewer Serbs did. In addition, ethnic Croats moved to Slavonia from Bosnia and Herzegovina and from Serbia.\n\nThe economy of Slavonia is largely based on wholesale and retail trade and processing industry. Food processing is one of the most significant types of the processing industries in the region, supporting agricultural production in the area and encompassing meat packing, fruit and vegetable processing, sugar refining, confectionery and dairy industry. In addition, there are wineries in the region that are significant to economy of Croatia. Other types of the processing industry significant to Slavonia are wood processing, including production of furniture, cellulose, paper and cardboard; metalworking, textile industry and glass production. Transport and civil engineering are two further significant economic activities in Slavonia. The largest industrial centre of Slavonia is Osijek, followed by other county seats—Slavonski Brod, Virovitica, Požega and Vukovar, as well as several other cities, especially Vinkovci.\n\nThe gross domestic product (GDP) of the five counties in Slavonia combined (in year 2008) amounted to 6,454 million euro, or 8,005 euro per capita—27.5% below Croatia's national average. The GDP of the five counties represented 13.6% of Croatia's GDP. Several Pan-European transport corridors run through Slavonia: corridor Vc as the A5 motorway, corridor X as the A3 motorway and a double-track railway spanning Slavonia from west to east, and corridor VII—the Danube River waterway. The waterway is accessed through the Port of Vukovar, the largest Croatian river port, situated on the Danube itself, and the Port of Osijek on the Drava River, away from confluence of the rivers.\n\nAnother major sector of the economy of Slavonia is agriculture, which also provides part of the raw materials for the processing industry. Out of of utilized agricultural land in Croatia, , or more than 45%, are found in Slavonia, with the largest portion of the land situated in the Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Syrmia counties. The largest areas are used for production of cereals and oilseeds, covering and respectively. Slavonia's share in Croatia's agriculturally productive land is greatest in the production of cereals (53.5%), legumes (46.8%), oilseeds (88.8%), sugar beet (90%), tobacco (97.9%), plants used in pharmaceutical or perfume industry (80.9%), flowers, seedlings and seeds (80.3%) and plants used in the textile industry (69%). Slavonia also contributes 25.7% of cattle, 42.7% of pigs and 20% of the poultry stock of Croatia. There are of vineyards in Slavonia, representing 18.6% of total vineyards area in Croatia. Production of fruit and nuts also takes up a significant agricultural area. Apple orchards cover , representing 42.3% of Croatia's apple plantations, plums are produced in orchards encompassing or 59.7% of Croatia's plum plantations and hazelnut orchards cover , which account for 72.4% of hazelnut plantations in Croatia. Other significant permanent crops are cherries, pears, peaches and walnuts.\n\nIn 2010, only two companies headquartered in Slavonia ranked among top 100 Croatian companies—Belje, agricultural industry owned by Agrokor, and Belišće, paper mill and paper packaging material factory, headquartered in Darda and Belišće respectively, both in Osijek-Baranja County. Belje ranks as the 44th and Belišće as the 99th largest Croatian company by income. Other significant businesses in the county include civil engineering company Osijek-Koteks (rank 103), Saponia detergent and personal care product factory (rank 138), Biljemerkant retail business (rank 145), and Našicecement cement plant (rank 165), a part of Nexe Grupa construction product manufacturing company. Sugar refining company Viro, ranked the 101st and headquartered in Virovitica, is the largest company in Virovitica-Podravina County. Đuro Đaković Montaža d.d., a part of metal processing industry Đuro Đaković Holding of Slavonski Brod, ranks the 171st among the Croatian companies and it is the largest business in Brod-Posavina County. Another agricultural industry company, Kutjevo d.d., headquartered in Kutjevo, is the largest company in Požega-Slavonia County, ranks the 194th in Croatia by business income. Finally, the largest company by income in Vukovar-Syrmia county is another Agrokor owned agricultural production company—Vupik, headquartered in Vukovar, and ranking the 161st among the companies headquartered in Croatia.\n\nThe cultural heritage of Slavonia represents a blend of social influences through its history, especially since the end of the 17th century, and the traditional culture. A particular impact was made by Baroque art and architecture of the 18th century, when the cities of Slavonia started developing after the Ottoman wars ended and stability was restored to the area. The period saw great prominence of the nobility, who were awarded estates in Slavonia by the imperial court in return for their service during the wars. They included Prince Eugene of Savoy, the House of Esterházy, the House of Odescalchi, Philipp Karl von Eltz-Kempenich, the House of Prandau-Normann, the House of Pejačević and the House of Janković. That in turn encouraged an influx of contemporary European culture to the region. Subsequent development of the cities and society saw the influence of Neoclassicism, Historicism and especially of Art Nouveau.\n\nThe heritage of the region includes numerous landmarks, especially manor houses built by the nobility in largely in the 18th and the 19th centuries. Those include Prandau-Normann and Prandau-Mailath manor houses in Valpovo and Donji Miholjac respectively, manor houses in Baranja—in Bilje, at a former Esterházy estate in Darda, in Tikveš, and in Kneževo. Pejačevićs built several residences, the most representative ones among them being manor house in Virovitica and the Pejačević manor house in Našice. Further east, along the Danube, there are Odescalchi manor house in Ilok, and Eltz manor house in Vukovar—the latter sustained extensive damage during the Battle of Vukovar in 1991, but it was reconstructed by 2011. In the southeast of the region, the most prominent are Kutjevo Jesuit manor house, and Cernik manor house, located in Kutjevo and Cernik respectively. The period also saw construction of Tvrđa and Brod fortifications in Osijek and Slavonski Brod. Older, medieval fortifications are preserved only as ruins—the largest among those being Ružica Castle near Orahovica. Another landmark dating to the 19th century is the Đakovo Cathedral—hailed by the Pope John XXIII as the most beautiful church situated between Venice and Istanbul.\nSlavonia significantly contributed to the culture of Croatia as a whole, both through works of artists and through patrons of the arts—most notable among them being Josip Juraj Strossmayer. Strossmayer was instrumental in the establishment of the Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts, later renamed the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, and the reestablishment of the University of Zagreb. A number of Slavonia's artists, especially writers, made considerable contributions to Croatian culture. Nineteenth-century writers who are most significant in Croatian literature include Josip Eugen Tomić, Josip Kozarac, and Miroslav Kraljević—author of the first Croatian novel. Significant twentieth-century poets and writers in Slavonia were Dobriša Cesarić, Dragutin Tadijanović, Ivana Brlić-Mažuranić and Antun Gustav Matoš. Painters associated with Slavonia, who contributed greatly to Croatian art, were Miroslav Kraljević and Bela Čikoš Sesija.\n\nSlavonia is a distinct region of Croatia in terms of ethnological factors in traditional music. It is a region where traditional culture is preserved through folklore festivals. Typical traditional music instruments belong to the tamburica and bagpipe family. The tamburica is the most representative musical instrument associated with Slavonia's traditional culture. It developed from music instruments brought by the Ottomans during their rule of Slavonia, becoming an integral part of the traditional music, its use surpassing or even replacing the use of bagpipes and gusle. A distinct form of traditional song, originating in Slavonia, the bećarac, is recognized as an intangible cultural heritage by UNESCO.\n\nOut of 122 Croatia's universities and other institutions of higher education, Slavonia is home to one university—Josip Juraj Strossmayer University of Osijek— as well as three polytechnics in Požega, Slavonski Brod and Vukovar, as well as a college in Virovitica—all set up and run by the government. The University of Osijek, has been established in 1975, but the first institution of higher education in the city was \"Studium Philosophicum Essekini\" founded in 1707, and active until 1780. Another historical institution of higher education was \"Academia Posegana\" operating in Požega between 1761 and 1776, as an extension of a gymnasium operating in the city continuously, since it opened in 1699 as the first secondary education school in Slavonia.\n\nThe cuisine of Slavonia reflects cultural influences on the region through the diversity of its culinary influences. The most significant among those were from Hungarian, Viennese, Central European, as well as Turkish and Arab cuisines brought by series of conquests and accompanying social influences. The ingredients of traditional dishes are pickled vegetables, dairy products and smoked meats. The most famous traditional preserved meat product is kulen, one of a handful Croatian products protected by the EU as indigenous products.\n\nSlavonia is one of Croatia's winemaking sub-regions, a part of its continental winegrowing region. The best known winegrowing areas of Slavonia are centered on Đakovo, Ilok and Kutjevo, where Graševina grapes are predominant, but other cultivars are increasingly present. In past decades, an increasing quantity of wine production in Slavonia was accompanied by increasing quality and growing recognition at home and abroad. Grape vines were first grown in the region of Ilok, as early as the 3rd century AD. The oldest Slavonian wine cellar still in continuous use for winemaking is located in Kutjevo—built in 1232 by Cistercians.\n\nSlavonian oak is used to make \"botti\", large barrels traditionally used in the Piedmont region of Italy to make nebbiolo wines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41373315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41373315", "title": "Víctor Pradera Larumbe", "text": "Víctor Pradera Larumbe\n\nJuan Víctor Pradera Larumbe (1872–1936) was a Spanish political theorist and a Carlist politician.\n\nVíctor's paternal family originated from France; his grandfather, Juan Pradera Martinena, lived in the Basque town of Sare (Labourd province), but moved across the Pyrenees and settled in Endara de Etxalar. Víctor's father, Francisco Pradera Leiza, was an . As a youngster he emigrated to America and spent 16 years in Cuba; enriched, he returned to Navarre and married a pamplonesa, Filomena Larumbe, descendant to a petty bourgeoisie family. Her father, Ángel Larumbe Iturralde, sided with the legitimists during the First Carlist War and narrowly escaped execution, later to settle in Vera de Bidasoa and to practise as a notary. Juan Víctor was born as the first of four sons, Juan Víctor, Luis, Juan and Germán. In 1879 he moved with the family to San Sebastian following the professional lot of his father, who ran a commercial construction business.\n\nHaving obtained bachillerato in Instituto de San Sebastian in 1887 he spent a year in Bordeaux and then another one in Bilbao, studying at the Jesuit Deusto college and preparing for engineer studies. Having moved to Madrid Pradera entered Escuela de Ingenieros, exact year of his graduation is unknown. He returned to Gipuzkoa in 1897 and settled in Tolosa, engaged in the paper mill business of his father. Reportedly successful as a manager, Pradera later amalgamated the family enterprise into the Papelera Española trust of and became a shareholder of this company, involved in its activities until the early 20th century.\n\nAt the turn of the century he commenced studying law as an unenrolled student in Madrid, which he continued for 2 years. Having graduated, in San Sebastian he opened the law chancery and practiced as Inspector General in Cuerpo de Ingenieros de Canales y Puertos simultaneously. At unspecified date he obtained PhD in law in Madrid. In 1899 Pradera married a donostiarra, María Ortega, with whom he had 4 children, Javier to become a prominent Francoist politician. Víctor's grandson, Javier Pradera, made his name as a well-known anti-Francoist journalist and publisher, dubbed watchman of the Spanish transition to democracy.\n\nDuring his academic years Pradera was active in various Catholic organizations and developed interest in politics. Raised in a liberal ambience and – apart from his maternal grandfather – with no family antecedents, in the 1890s he neared Carlism as a result of his lectures; unlike most Traditionalists who inherited their outlook from forefathers, Pradera considered himself a “scientific Carlist”. Already recognized as an orator, in 1899 he was agreed to stand as an unofficial Carlist candidate in Tolosa. Benefitting from just commencing rapprochement between mainstream Carlists and the Integrists, he was elected defeating a governmental candidate; Matias Barrio appointed him speaker of the small Carlist minority.\n\nIn the aftermath of 1898 disaster Pradera formed the first wave of regeneracionistas, demanding profound if not revolutionary change. A young newcomer in the chamber, he regularly clashed with Silvela, demonstrating logic combined with oratory skills as well as hot temper. Re-elected in 1901, he went on confronting the old liberal enemies and took on the new ones, especially republican radicals and nationalists. He intended to run for re-election in the subsequent campaign of 1903, but eventually resigned due to financial issues. In 1904 Pradera was elected from Tolosa to . Together with Esteban de Bilbao Eguía and Julio Urquijo he formed a new generation of activists, promoted by the claimant Carlos VII and the party leader marqués de Cerralbo in their bid to build a modern Carlist network.\n\nHis deputy duties terminated, Pradera dedicated himself to family life, business and intellectual work. He remained engaged in party life, though his relations with local leadership deteriorated. In course of the 1910 electoral campaign he sought rapprochement with the mauristas and supported a stand-alone candidate; both were expelled from the party by its Gipuzkoan jefe, Tirso de Olazabal. Re-admitted in 1912, Pradera continued his career as an orator on public meetings. Addressing a wide range of issues, he was increasingly focused on confronting the emerging Basque national aspirations. As he gained a nationwide expert recognition, in 1917 de Romanones called him into extra-parliamentarian committee to discuss Catalan autonomy. Elected to the Cortes in 1918, he became the key Carlist speaker. Forging friendship with Antonio Maura, he nevertheless opposed grand but hazy coalitions aimed at preserving shaky stability of the late Restoration. Aware of the forthcoming revolutionary tide, he advocated a radical Traditionalist change.\n\nAt that time Jaimismo was increasingly paralysed by a multidimensional conflict between its key ideologue, Juan Vázquez de Mella, and the claimant himself. Pradera, who befriended de Mella and remained heavily influenced by his vision, sided with the rebels, in 1919 joining their . Animating the Mellist \"Diario de Navarra\", he unsuccessfully ran for the Cortes in 1919, failing also in his 1920 bid for the Senate. During final years of Restauración he was in vain lured by both , offering him safe place on electoral lists and ministerial jobs; Pradera remained the PCT party jefe in Gipzukoa.\n\nIn the early 1920s Pradera's relations with de Mella deteriorated. According to one theory, Mella favored a loose federation of extreme Right parties, while Pradera opted for a new party of the Right. According to another, Mella perceived Pradera's vision as minimalist, suspecting him of hidden laicism and embracing parliamentarism. Most detailed study available pursues the theory of orthodox de Mella disdainful to \"possibilist\" and \"minimalist\" Pradera. One more theory claims that the two clashed later and the point of contention was policy towards the Primo de Rivera dictatorship. Pradera decided to go his own way, taking a number of mellistas with him; de Mella himself, plagued by health problems and with both his legs amputated, gradually retired into private and intellectual life.\n\nIn 1922 Pradera set up , intended to be a vehicle of a new, possibilist policy making. Incompatible with the Carlist intransigence, it was envisioned as a broad alliance rather than a party. Most scholars suggest it was principally inspired by social theories of Leo XIII, at that time advanced in Spain mostly by the Zaragoza school of Salvador Minguijon; it was supposed to confront the rising socialist tide. Though the party is occasionally described as a distant preconfiguration of Christian Democracy, proto-Fascism or renewed Traditionalism, most summarise its program as social-Catholicism, modeled on the German Catholic Centre Party. The party slogan was: Religión, Patria, Estado, Propiedad y Familia. PSP opposed representation based on popular election system and advocated a corporative representation instead; Pradera appreciated good will of Christian-democrats like Herrera Oria, but claimed that their malmenorismo opens the door to revolution, he also preferred monarchism to Christian-democratic accidentalism. The PSP social program included progressive taxation and social legislation. Though some of its leaders clearly excluded ruling by force, Pradera remained rather ambiguous on this issue. \n\nMost “pesepistas” welcomed Primo de Rivera dictatorship; Pradera greeted him enthusiastically as a long overdue regeneracionismo. Asked by Primo for an interview, Pradera suggested that the new regime should ban all parties, introduce corporative representation, build a presidentialist government and construct a regionalist state, a vision developed further on in 4 memoranda, supplied to the dictator. Pradera engaged in advocating dictatorship in the press and remained officially Primo's assessor until 1927, when he entered . Member of the Proyectos de Leyes Constitucionales section, he strived to institutionalize the system by working on a new constitution, conceived in line with his corporativist vision.\n\nPradera's intellectual contribution to Primo's rule was so eminent that he is sometimes considered a point of reference for primoderiverismo. However, his relations with the dictator deteriorated, the first controversies surfacing in 1924. Pradera was disturbed by the perceived self-adulation of Primo, preserving liberal features of the ancient regime, and generally inertia prevailing over a decisive change. He considered Union Patriotica a mistake, opposed centralization and did not agree with Calvo Sotelo on financial policy, the fiscal system in particular. Though in the late 1920s Primo was increasingly irritated by Pradera's criticism, the latter remained supportive until the very end. It was only long after the regime's fall that Pradera started to view it as a delusive spell of stability between bewilderment of the late Restauración and chaos of the Republic.\n\nDuring the first republican electoral campaign of 1931 Pradera was supposed to join , but eventually he refused to form ranks with the despised Basque nationalists and withdrew. He drew close to the Jaimistas, but remained hesitant about returning to their party. It was only after the death of Don Jaime that in 1932 Pradera decided to lead his followers and the orphaned mellistas to the united Carlist organization, , entering its executive. He also became head of the newly established Council of Culture, rising into a formally acknowledged movement's intellectual leader. His career of a public servant was crowned in 1933, when he was elected to . In 1934 he unsuccessfully run for its presidency. In 1936 Pradera was admitted to Academia de Jurisprudencia y Legislación.\n\nPradera did not display a dynastical zeal; as the new claimant was an octogenarian with no issue, he considered recognising Don Juan as Carlist king. Within Comunión Pradera formed an influential minority endorsing a broad monarchical alliance with the Alfonsists. He wholeheartedly engaged in Acción Española and became vice-president of Sociedad Cultural Española, the official owner of \"Acción Española\" periodical. He then proved one of key Carlists joining Bloque Nacional, entering its executive committee and working out its manifesto, most likely a compromise between himself and Calvo Sotelo. Pradera continued confronting accidentalist Christian-democracy; his campaign against CEDA was so virulent that Carlist leaders felt pressed to call for moderation.\nInitially Pradera's drive towards a monarchist alliance was shared by the party leaders; it was rather the rank-and-file who saw no purpose mixing with debris of the hated liberal dynasty. When Alfonso Carlos replaced Tomás Domínguez Arévalo with the intransigent Manuel Fal, Pradera and the entire Junta resigned. Though Fal permitted Rodezno and Pradera to pursue their tactics on a private business basis, none of them was a match for the personality of Calvo Sotelo. As the growing feeling was that Alfonsinos were gaining the upper hand in Bloque Nacional, Fal decided to withdraw and Pradera hesitantly complied; he focused on fighting secularization, democracy, socialism, nationalism and all perceived evils of the republic as an author, publishing press articles and books.\n\nPradera's political vision was taking shape in course of some 40 years, to be finally integrated in \"El Estado Nuevo\", the book published in 1935. His theory is usually viewed as anchored in works of Vázquez de Mella, considered by Pradera the intellectual master. Other sources of inspiration listed are papal encyclicals, Maurras, Donoso Cortes and, last but not least, Thomas Aquinas.\n\nAccording to Pradera, rights of a man exist only when combined with his duties towards God and are unacceptable as deified Rousseau's “human rights”. It is natural that men form different entities (e.g. families, guilds, regions etc.), which interact with one another. They are topped by a nation, which is an organically constituted society of societies. A nation is best expressed as a monarchy, its unity ensured by King and Church. Royal powers are limited by principles of divine order and by sovereignty of the nation's components. A democratic individualist representation can not express this sovereignty, which is to be voiced by an organic representation. Since parties tear every society apart, the Cortes should be composed of representatives of 6 main classes, plus delegates of various state bodies. The law is defined by the king, with auxiliary role of the Cortes and the Council. The state is a fairly withdrawn structure; its principal responsibilities defined as safeguarding the country, ensuring internal order and executing justice. Catholic principles provide the logic, and the corporativist state provides the machinery to solve social problems and implement mechanisms regulating distribution of wealth. How this vision was to be achieved remained unclear.\n\n\"El Estado Nuevo\" was enthusiastically accepted among Carlists, Pradera replacing de Mella as their top theorist. Also other sections of the Spanish Right, deprived of a comparable credo, viewed the work with respect if not envy. Republican intellectuals pointed that Pradera questioned all political science and reduced politics to following historical circumstances. Pradera's impact on Franco remains disputed. In the newspaper version he appears as \"one of the icons and pilars of Francoism\". Indeed, many scholars consider Pradera one of caudillo's masters, pointing to his prologue to the 1945 re-edition and later references; to them, \"Estado Nuevo\" is a forerunner of Francoist state and its clear theoretical lecture. Though some in-depth studies on Francoism even claim that the regime was related to Traditionalism rather than to fascism, other detailed works on the topic barely mention Pradera. Most detailed biographical studies refrain from making direct links between Pradera and Francoism.\nContemporary scholars do not agree how Pradera's theory should be classified. Most extensive studies suggest that his vision falls somewhere between social-Catholicism and corporativism, the closest European incarnations having been Dolfuss’ Austria and Salazar's Portugal. Other options offered are traditionalism, national traditionalism, corporative neotraditionalist monarchism, organicism, reactionary authoritarism, proto-fascism (prefascism), traditionalist fascism or simply an intellectual magma.\n\nThe regionalist question posed an indispensable component of Pradera's theory; it also kept coming back as a major thread of his political activities. Today among many Spanish citizens – especially the Basques – Pradera is principally recognized only for his stance on this very topic, usually as a sworn enemy of national minorities.\n\nFrom the onset of his career Pradera declared himself a supporter of traditional regional fueros, and identified himself as unswervingly regionalist. In his political vision the regions, with their specific legal, economic and social establishments, were among key entities forming a nation, and his recommendations to Primo endorsed a strongly regionalist state. The fueros, however, did not provide an autonomous legal framework, but to the contrary, they were viewed as a pact between a region and the Spanish state. Hence, he consistently fought all designs perceived as fostering separatism and embracing autonomy, confronting Liga Autonomista, lambasting Wilsonian arguments on self-determination, fighting theories advanced by Sabino Arana and , thwarting autonomy projects of late Restauración, publicly admonishing Primo de Rivera for fostering separatism, fighting during the Republic - with particular hostility to incorporating Navarre into the autonomous project - and voting against the in Tribunal de Garantias.\n\nPradera denied the Basques and the Catalans a separate political identity, be it historical or contemporary, and was particularly infuriated by racist thread of the Basque national discourse. Recognising their separate ethnic status, he considered the minorities \"pueblos\", forming part of the Spanish political nation. He remained restless denouncing what he considered invented nationalist myths and proving that the Basques had neither formed a unitarian cultural entity nor had ever possessed a common political self. As confronting Basque and Catalan political aspirations became a major thread of Pradera's activity, driven by concern for unity of Spain, he soon grew into the nationalist Basques' primary foe, accused of españolismo, hyperpatriotism and jingoism.\n\nPradera's contribution to anti-Republican coup consisted chiefly of conducting talks with the would-be Alfonsist allies in Navarre and in the Basque provinces, though exact scale of his engagement remains unknown. In February 1936 he declined Franco's proposal to join him on Canary Islands; fully aware of the forthcoming coup and anxious not to be called a coward, he cancelled a formal visit to France, scheduled on July 13 as part of Tribunal de Garantias duties, and remained in San Sebastian. He is quoted as declaring to Rodezno on July 16, 1936: \"Thomas, let God help us. If we fail, we will have our throats cut\".\n\nDuring initial days of the insurgency Pradera remained in San Sebastián, where the coup indeed failed; he soon found himself cut off from the nationalist zone. Early August he was arrested by the Basque militia and detained in the Ondarreta prison; his son Javier joined him soon afterwards. Accounts of his last days differ. Most studies claim he was trialed by a makeshift Tribunal Popular and was sentenced to death; other works suggest that as the city was already under the nationalist siege, the Republican militia units stormed the prison fearing the detainees might be soon set free. On September 6, within a group of other prisoners, Pradera was driven to the nearby Polloe cemetery and executed, his son meeting the same fate shortly afterwards. In 1949 Franco posthumously conferred upon Pradera the title of a, which is functional until today.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18919111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18919111", "title": "Çağadüz", "text": "Çağadüz\n\nÇağadüz — is a village in the Khojavend Rayon of Azerbaijan, de facto Republic of Artsakh.\n"}
