{"id": "225835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225835", "title": "1702 in literature", "text": "1702 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1702.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4104602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4104602", "title": "1795–1820 in Western fashion", "text": "1795–1820 in Western fashion\n\nFashion in the period 1795–1820 in European and European-influenced countries saw the final triumph of undress or informal styles over the brocades, lace, periwigs and powder of the earlier 18th century. In the aftermath of the French Revolution, no one wanted to appear to be a member of the French aristocracy, and people began using clothing more as a form of individual expression of the true self than as a pure indication of social status. As a result, the shifts that occurred in fashion at the turn of the 19th century granted the opportunity to present new public identities that also provided insights into their private selves. Katherine Aaslestad indicates how \"fashion, embodying new social values, emerged as a key site of confrontation between tradition and change.\"\n\nFor women's dress, the day to day outfit of the skirt and jacket style were practical and tactful, recalling the working class woman. Women's fashions followed classical ideals, and tightly laced corsets were temporarily abandoned in favor of a high-waisted, natural figure. This natural figure was emphasized by being able to see the body beneath the clothing. Visible breasts were part of this classical look, and some characterized the breasts in fashion as solely aesthetic and sexual.\n\nIn Britain, the era of Regency in England covered the years when King George III was deemed unfit to rule and his son, the Prince of Wales ruled England as Prince Regent before his accession as King George IV. But the broadest definition of the period, characterized by trends in fashion, architecture, culture, and politics, begins with the French Revolution of 1789 and ends with Queen Victoria’s rise to power. The names of popular persons who lived in this time are still famous: Napoleon I Bonaparte and Josephine, Madame Recamier, Jane Austen, Percy Bysshe Shelley, Lord Byron, Beau Brummell, Lady Emma Hamilton, Queen Louise of Prussia and her husband and many more. Beau Brummell introduced trousers, perfect tailoring, and unadorned, immaculate linen as the ideals of men's fashion. \n\nIn Germany, republican city-states relinquished their traditional, modest, and practical garments and started to embrace the French and English fashion trends of short-sleeved chemise dresses and Spencer jackets. American fashion trends emulated French dress, but in a toned down manner with shawls and tunics to cope with the sheerness of the chemise. However, in Spain, members of the Aristocracy, as well as citizens of the lower class, united and rebelled against French enlightenment ideals and fashion by dressing as majas and majos to contain their Spanish pride.\n\nBy the end of the eighteenth century, a major shift in fashion was taking place that extended beyond changes in mere style to changes in philosophical and social ideals. Prior to this time, the style and traditions of the “Ancien Régime” prevented the conceptualization of “the self”. Instead, one's identity was considered malleable; subject to change depending on what clothes one was wearing. However, by the 1780s, the new, “natural” style allowed one's inner self to transcend their clothes.\n\nDuring the 1790s, there was a new concept of the internal and external self. Before this time, there had only been one self, which was expressed through clothing. When going to a masquerade ball, people wore specific clothing, so they could not show their individuality through their clothing. Incorporated in this new “natural” style was the importance of ease and comfort of one's dress. Not only was there a new emphasis on hygiene, but also clothing became much lighter and more able to be changed and washed frequently. Even upper class women began wearing cropped dresses as opposed to dresses with long trains or hoops that restricted them from leaving their homes. The subsequent near stasis of the silhouette inspired volumes of new trims and details on heavily trimmed skirts back into fashion. In the Regency years, complicated historic and orientalist elements provided lavish stylistic displays as such details were a vigorous vehicle for conspicuous consumption given their labor-intensive fabrications, and therefore a potent signifier of hierarchy for the upper classes who wore the styles.  This kind of statement was particularly noticeable in profuse trimmings, especially on skirts where unrestrained details were common, along with cut edge details and edge trims. \n\nWomen's fashion was also influenced by male fashion, such as tailored waistcoats and jackets to emphasize women's mobility. This new movement toward practicality of dress showed that dress became less of a way to solely categorize between classes or genders; dress was meant to suit one's personal daily routine. It was also during this time period that the fashion magazine and journal industry began to take off. They were most often monthly (often competing) periodicals that allowed men and women to keep up with the ever-changing styles.\n\nIn the late 18th century, clothes were mostly sold by individual shopkeepers who were often the artisans who made the goods. Customers usually lived in the same neighborhood as the shops and the shops would gain popularity by their customers’ word-of–mouth recommendation, with the exception of warehouses (i.e., any retail on wholesale), where goods being sold were not necessarily made in the shop. However, things started to change during the transition to the 19th century. People sought efficiency and variety; under the influence of the Industrial Revolution, improved transportation and introduction of machines in manufacturing allowed fashion to develop at an even faster pace.\n\nThe first sewing machine emerged in 1790, and later, Josef Madersperger began developing his first sewing machine in 1807, presenting his first working machine in 1814. The introduction of the sewing machine sped up garment production. Meanwhile, advanced spinning, weaving and cotton-printing techniques developed in the 18th century had already brought detailed, washable fabrics. These durable and affordable fabrics became popular among the majority population. These techniques were further developed by the introduction of machines. Before, accessories like embroidery and lace were manufactured on a small and limited scale by skilled craftsmen and sold in their own shops; in 1804, a machine for embroidering was constructed by John Duncan, and people started producing these essential accessories in factories and dispatching the products to shops throughout the country. These technical developments in clothing production allowed a greater variety of styles; rapid changes in fashion also became possible.\n\nThe Industrial Revolution bridged Europe and America with regards to travel. When Louis Simond first arrived to America, he was struck by the mobility of the population and frequency of people made trips to the capital, writing \"you meet nowhere with those persons who never were out of their native place, and whose habits are wholly local — nobody above poverty\nwho has not visited London once in his life; and most of those who can, visit once a year.’ New canals and railways not only transported people, but created national and even broader markets by transporting goods that manufactured in factories in great distances. The rise of industry throughout the Western world increased garment production and people were encouraged to travel more widely and purchase more goods than ever before.\n\nCommunication was also improved in this era. New ideas about fashion were conveyed by little dolls dressed in the latest style, newspapers, and illustrated magazines; for example, La Belle Assemblée, founded by John Bell, was a British women's magazine published from 1806 to 1837. It was best known for its fashion plates of Regency era styles, showing how women should dress and behave. When fashion became available for everybody, people were expected to dress according to the latest fashion. Dressmakers would show the fashion-plates to their customers, so that customers could catch up to the latest styles.\n1790s:\n\n1800s:\n\n1810s:\n\n1820s:\n\nIn this period, fashionable women's clothing styles were based on the Empire silhouette — dresses were closely fitted to the torso just under the bust, falling loosely below. In different contexts, such styles are commonly called \"Directoire style\" (referring to the Directory government of France during the second half of the 1790s), \"Empire style\" (referring to Napoleon's 1804–1814/1815 empire, and often also to his 1800–1804 \"consulate\"), or \"Regency\" (loosely used to refer to various periods between the 18th century and the Victorian).\n\nThese 1795–1820 fashions were quite different from the styles prevalent during most of the 18th century and the rest of the 19th century, when women's clothes were generally tight against the torso from the natural waist upwards, and heavily full-skirted below (often inflated by means of hoop skirts, crinolines, panniers, bustles, etc.). Women’s fashion around this time started to follow classical ideals, inspired by the ancient Greek and Roman style with its gracious, loosely falling dresses that were gathered or just accentuated over the natural waist under the bust. For women, tightly laced corsets and brocade gave way to a celebration of the natural form. A woman’s body shape was to be celebrated. Bodices were short with waistlines falling just below the bust. The Empire silhouette defines a dress with a high waist and a long and loosely falling skirt, which lengthens and flatters the body but does not always make it look slim. Fabrics were light to the point of being sheer below the bodice, which made them easier to keep clean. Because gown fabrics were so light, women’s fashions consisted of three layers.\n\nInspired by neoclassical tastes, ‘undress’ was the style of the day, casual and informal. It was the type of gown a woman wore from morning until noon or later depending on her social engagements of the day. The short-waisted dresses sported soft, loose skirts and were often made of white, almost transparent muslin, which was easily washed and draped loosely like the garments on Greek and Roman statues. Since the fabric clung to the body, revealing what was underneath, it made nudity \"à la grecque\" a centerpiece of public spectacle.Satin was sometimes worn for evening wear. ‘Half Dress’ is thought of as how one would dress when going out during the day or meeting with guests.‘Full Dress’ was what a lady wore to formal events, day or night. ‘Evening Dress’ was only appropriate at evening affairs.Thus during the 1795–1820 period, it was often possible for middle- and upper-class women to wear clothes that were not very confining or cumbersome, and still be considered decently and fashionably dressed.\n\nAmong middle- and upper-class women there was a basic distinction between \"morning dress\" (worn at home in the afternoons as well as mornings) and evening attire — generally, both men and women changed clothes in preparation for the evening meal and possible entertainments to follow. There were also further gradations such as afternoon dress, walking dress, riding habits, travelling dress, dinner dress, etc.\n\nIn the \"Mirror of Graces; or the English Lady's Costume\", published in London in 1811, the author (\"a Lady of Distinction\") advised:\nIn the morning the arms and bosom must be completely covered to the throat and wrists. From the dinner-hour to the termination of the day, the arms, to a graceful height above the elbow, may be bare; and the neck and shoulders unveiled as far as delicacy will allow.\n\n\nA Lady of Distinction also advised young ladies to wear softer shades of color, such as pinks, periwinkle blue, or lilacs. The mature matron could wear fuller colors, such as purple, black, crimson, deep blue, or yellow.\n\nMany women of this era remarked upon how being fully dressed meant the bosom and shoulders were bare, and yet being under-dressed would mean one's neckline went right up to one's chin.\n\nDue to the importance of showing social status, the fashion industry was very much influenced by society during the Regency era. One's position was determined by the person's wealth, etiquette, family status, intelligence, and beauty. Women financially and socially relied on their husbands. The only socially-acceptable activities in which women could participate centered around social gatherings and fashion, the most important component of which was attending evening parties. These parties helped to build relationships and connection with others. As etiquette dictated different standards of attire for different events, afternoon dress, evening dress, evening full dress, ball dress, and different type of dresses were popular.\n\nWomen's fashion in the Regency era started to change drastically. It popularized the empire silhouette, which featured a fitted bodice and high waist. This “new natural style” emphasized the beauty of the body's natural lines. Clothing became lighter and easier to care for than in the past. Women often wore several layers of clothing, typically undergarments, gowns, and outerwear. The chemise, the standard undergarment of the era, prevented the thin, gauzy dresses from being fully transparent. Outerwear, such as the spencer and the pelisse, were popular.\n\nThe empire silhouette was created in the late 18th century to about early 19th century, and referred to the period of the First French Empire. This adoption had been linked with France's Relation and adopted of Greek and Roman principles. The style was often worn in white to denote as a high social status. Josephine Bonaparte was the one of the figureheads for the Empire waistline, with her elaborated and decorated Empire line dresses. Regency women followed the Empire style along the same trend of raised waistlines as French styles, even when their countries were at war. Starting from the 1780s and early 1790s, women's silhouette became slimmer and the waistlines crept up. After 1795, waistlines rose dramatically and the skirt circumference was further reduced. Few years later, England and France started to show the focus of high waist style and this led to the creation of Empire style.\n\nThe style began as part of Neoclassical fashion, reviving styles from Greco-Roman art which showed women wearing loose fitting rectangular tunics known as peplos which were belted under the bust, providing support for women and a cool, comfortable outfit especially in warm climate. The empire silhouette was defined by the waistline, which was positioned directly under the bust. The Empire silhouette were the key style in women's clothing during the Regency era. The dresses were usually light, long and fit loosely, they were usually in white and often sheer from the ankle to just below the bodice which strongly emphasized thin hem and tied around the body. A long rectangular shawl or wrap, very often plain red but with a decorated border in portraits, helped in colder weather, and was apparently lain around the midriff when seated—for which sprawling semi-recumbent postures were favored. The dresses had a fitted bodice and it gave a high-waist appearance.\n\nThe style had waxed and waned in fashion for hundreds of years. The shape of the dresses also helped to lengthen the body's appearance. The clothing can also be draped to maximize the bust. Lightweight fabrics were typically used to create a flowing effect. Also, ribbon, sash, and other decorative features were used to highlight the waistline. The empire gowns were often with low neckline and short sleeves and women usually worn them as evening dresses. On the other hand, day gowns had higher neckline and long sleeves. The chemisette was a staple for fashionable ladies. Although there were differences between day dresses and evening dresses, the high waistline was not changed.\n\nDuring this period, the classical influence extended to hairstyles. Often masses of curls were worn over the forehead and ears, with the longer back hair drawn up into loose buns or \"Psyche knots\" influenced by Greek and Roman styles. By the later 1810s, front hair was parted in the center and worn in tight ringlets over the ears. Adventurous women like Lady Caroline Lamb wore short cropped hairstyles \"à la Titus\", the \"Journal de Paris\" reporting in 1802 that \"more than half of elegant women were wearing their hair or wig \"à la Titus\"\", a layered cut usually with some tresses hanging down.\n\nIn the \"Mirror of Graces,\" a Lady of Distinction writes,\nNow, easy tresses, the shining braid, the flowing ringlet confined by the \"antique\" comb, or bodkin, give graceful specimens of the simple taste of modern beauty. Nothing can correspond more elegantly with the untrammeled drapery of our newly-adopted classic raiment than this undecorated coiffure of nature.\n\nConservative married women continued to wear linen mob caps, which now had wider brims at the sides to cover the ears. Fashionable women wore similar caps for morning (at home undress) wear.\n\nFor the first time in centuries, respectable but daringly fashionable women would leave the house without a hat or bonnet, previously something often associated with prostitutes. However most women continued to wear something on their head outdoors, though they were beginning to cease to do so indoors during the day (as well as for evening wear). The antique head-dress, or Queen Mary \"coif\", Chinese hat, Oriental inspired turban, and Highland helmet were popular. As for bonnets, their crowns and brims were adorned with increasingly elaborate ornamentations, such as feathers and ribbons. In fact, ladies of the day embellished their hats frequently, replacing old decorations with new trims or feathers.\n\nFashionable women of the Regency era wore several layers of undergarments. The first was the chemise, or shift, a thin garment with tight, short sleeves (and a low neckline if worn under evening wear), made of white cotton and finished with a plain hem that was shorter than the dress. These shifts were meant to protect the outer-clothes from perspiration and were washed more frequently than outer clothes. In fact, washer women of the time used coarse soap when scrubbing these garments, then plunged them in boiling water, hence the absence of color, lace, or other embellishments, which would have faded or damaged the fabric under such rough treatment. Chemises and shifts also prevented the transparent muslin or silk dresses from being too revealing.\n\nThe next layer was a pair of stays or corset. However, high-waisted classical fashions required no corset for the slight of figure, and there were some experiments to produce garments which would serve the same functions as a modern brassiere. (In the \"Mirror of Graces\", a \"divorce\" was described as an undergarment that served to separate a woman's breasts. Made of steel or iron that was covered by a type of padding, and shaped like a triangle, this device was placed in the center of the chest.) \"Short stays\" (corsets extending only a short distance below the breasts) were often worn over the shift or chemise (not directly next to the skin), and \"long stays\" (corsets extending down towards the natural waist) were worn by a minority of women trying to appear slimmer than they were (but even such long stays were not primarily intended to constrict the waist, in the manner of Victorian corsets.)\n\nThe final layer was the petticoat, which could have a scooped neckline and was sleeveless, and was fitted in the back with hooks and eyelets, buttons or tapes. These petticoats were often worn between the underwear and the outer dress and was considered part of the outer clothing not underwear. The lower edge of the petticoat was intended to be seen, since women would often lift their outer dresses to spare the relatively delicate material of the outer dress from mud or damp (so exposing only the coarser and cheaper fabric of the petticoat to risk). Often exposed to view, petticoats were decorated at the hem with rows of tucks or lace, or ruffles.\n\n\"Drawers\" (underpants with short legs) were only beginning to be worn by a few women during this period. They were tied separately around the waist.\n\nStockings (hosiery), made of silk or knitted cotton, were held up by garters below the knee until suspenders were introduced in the late 19th century and were often of a white or pale flesh color \n\nDuring this time period, women's clothing was much thinner than in the eighteenth century so warmer outerwear became important in fashion, especially in colder climates. Coat-like garments such as pelisses and redingotes were popular, as were shawls, mantles, mantelets, capes and cloaks. The mantelet was a short cape that was eventually lengthened and made into a shawl. The redingote, another popular example, was a full-length garment resembling a man's riding coat (hence the name) in style, that could be made of different fabrics and patterns. Throughout the period, the Indian shawl was the favoured wrap, as houses and the typical English country house were generally draughty, and the sheer muslin and light silk dresses popular during this time provided less protection. Shawls were made of soft cashmere or silk or even muslin for summer. Paisley patterns were extremely popular at the time.\n\nShort (high-waisted) jackets called \"spencers\" were worn outdoors, along with long-hooded cloaks, Turkish wraps, mantles, capes, Roman tunics, chemisettes, and overcoats called \"pelisses\" (which were often sleeveless and reached down as far as the ankles). These outer garments were often made of double sarsnet, fine Merino cloth, or velvets, and trimmed with fur, such as swan's down, fox, chinchilla, or sable. On May 6, 1801, Jane Austen wrote her sister Cassandra, \"Black gauze cloaks are worn as much as anything.\"\n\nThin, flat fabric (silk or velvet) or leather slippers were generally worn (as opposed to the high-heeled shoes of much of the 18th century).\n\nMetal pattens were strapped on shoes to protect them from rain or mud, raising the feet an inch or so off the ground.\n\nGloves were always worn outside the house. When worn inside, as when making a social call, or on formal occasions, such as a ball, they were removed when dining. About the length of the glove, A Lady of Distinction writes:\nIf the prevailing fashion be to reject the long sleeve, and to partially display the arm, let the glove advance considerably above the elbow, and there be fastened with a draw-string or armlet. But this should only be the case when the arm is muscular, coarse, or scraggy. When it is fair, smooth, and round, it will admit of the glove being pushed down to a little above the wrists.\nLonger gloves were worn rather loosely during this period, crumpling below the elbow. As described in the passage above, \"garters\" could fasten longer gloves.\n\nReticules held personal items, such as vinaigrettes. The form-fitting dresses or frocks of the day had no pockets, thus these small drawstring handbags were essential. These handbags were often called buskins or balantines. They were rectangular in shape and was worn suspended by a woven band from a belt placed around the figure above the waist.\n\nParasols (as shown in the illustration) protected a lady's skin from the sun, and were considered an important fashion accessory. Slender and light in weight, they came in a variety of shapes, colors, and sizes.\n\nFashionable ladies (and gentlemen) used fans to cool themselves and to enhance gestures and body language. Made of paper or silk on sticks of ivory and wood, and printed with oriental motifs or popular scenes of the era, these ubiquitous accessories featured a variety of shapes and styles, such as pleated or rigid. An information sheet from the Cheltenham Museum describes fans and their use in body language and communication (click and scroll to page 4).\n\nBy the mid-1790s, neoclassical clothing had come into fashion in France. Several influences had combined to bring about this simplification in women's clothing: aspects of Englishwomen's practical country outdoor-wear leaked up into French high fashion, and there was a reaction in revolutionary France against the stiffly boned corsets and brightly colored satins and other heavy fabrics that were in style in the Ancien Régime (see 1750–1795 in fashion). But ultimately, Neo-classicism was adopted for its association with classical republican ideas [with reference to Greece, rather than republican Rome, which was now considered politically dangerous]. This renewed fascination of the classical past was encouraged by the recent discoveries of Pompeii and Herculaneum, and would likely have not been possible outside such a specific geographic and historical setting that allowed the idea of the past made present to become paramount.\n\nAlong with the influences of the Pompeii and Herculaneum excavations, several other factors came together to popularize neoclassical dress. Starting in the early 1790s, Emma Hamilton began her performances of attitudes, something that was considered by contemporaries as entirely new. These attitudes were based loosely on the ancient practice of pantomime, though Emma's performances lacked masks and musical accompaniment. Her performances created a fusion between art and nature; art came alive and her body became a type of art. As an aid to her performances of tragic mythological and historical figures, Emma wore the clothing á la grecque that would become popular in mainstream France in the coming years. A simple light colored chemise made from thin, flowing material was worn and gathered with a narrow ribbon under the breasts. Simple cashmere shawls were used as headdresses or to give more fullness to the drapery of the chemise. They also helped to prevent broken lines in the performance so that the outstretched arms were always connected with the body, escalating the effect of fluid movement, and oftentimes, a cape or a cloak was worn to emphasize the lines of the body in certain poses. This highlighted the continuity of surface of line and form in the body of the performer to emphasize the unity, simplicity, and continuously flowing movement from one part of the body to the next. The hair was worn in a natural, loose, and flowing fashion. All of these properties blended together to allow an extensive play of light and shadow to reveal and accent certain parts of the body during the performance, while covering others. Emma was highly capable in her attitudes, and the influence of her dress spread from Naples to Paris as wealthy Parisians took the Grand Tour.\nThere is also some evidence that the white muslin shift dress became popular after Thermidor through the influence of prison dress. Revolutionary women such as Madame Tallien portrayed themselves in this way because it was the only clothing they possessed during their time in prison. The chemise á la grecque also represented the struggle for representation of the self and the stripping down of past cultural values. Also, a simplification of the attire worn by preteen girls in the 1780s (who were no longer required to wear ) probably paved the way for the simplification of the attire worn by teenage girls and adult women in the 1790s. Waistlines became somewhat high by 1795, but skirts were still rather full, and neoclassical influences were not yet dominant.\n\nIt was during the second half of the 1790s that fashionable women in France began to adopt a thoroughgoing Classical style, based on an idealized version of ancient Greek and Roman dress (or what was thought at the time to be ancient Greek and Roman dress), with narrow clinging skirts. Some of the extreme Parisian versions of the neoclassical style (such as narrow straps which bared the shoulders, and diaphanous dresses without sufficient stays, petticoats, or shifts worn beneath) were not widely adopted elsewhere, but many features of the late-1790s neoclassical style were broadly influential, surviving in successively modified forms in European fashions over the next two decades.\n\nWith this Classical style came the willingness to expose the breast. With the new iconography of the Revolution as well as a change in emphasis on maternal breast-feeding, the chemise dress became a sign of the new egalitarian society. The style was simple and appropriate for the comfort of a pregnant or nursing woman as the breasts were emphasized and their availability was heightened. Maternity became fashionable and it was not uncommon for women to walk around with their breasts exposed. Some women took the “fashionable maternity” a step further and wore a “six-month pad” under their dress to appear pregnant.\n\nWhite was considered the most suitable color for neoclassical clothing (accessories were often in contrasting colors). Short trains trailing behind were common in dresses of the late 1790s.\n\n\nDuring the first two decades of the 19th century, fashions continued to follow the basic high-waisted empire silhouette, but in other respects neoclassical influences became progressively diluted. Dresses remained narrow in front, but fullness at the raised back waist allowed room to walk. Colors other than white came into style, the fad for diaphanous outer fabrics faded (except in certain formal contexts), and some elements of obvious visible ornamentation came back into use in the design of the dress (as opposed to the elegant simplicity or subtle white-on-white embroidery of the dress of ca. 1800).\n\n\nThis era signaled the loss of any lingering neoclassical, pseudo-Grecian styles in women's dress. This decline was especially evident in France due to the Emperor Napoleon's suppression of trade in the fabrics used in neoclassical dress. While waistlines were still high, they were beginning to drop slightly. Larger and more abundant decoration, especially near the hem and neckline foreshadowed greater extravagance in the coming years. More petticoats were being worn, and a stiffer, more cone-shaped skirt became popular. Stiffness could be supplemented by layers of ruffles and tucks on a hem, as well as corded or flounced petticoats. Sleeves began to be pulled, tied, and pinched in ways that were more influenced by romantic and gothic styles than neoclassical. Hats and hairstyles became more elaborate and trimmed, climbing higher to balance widening skirts.\n\n\n \nThis period saw the final abandonment of lace, embroidery, and other embellishment from serious men's clothing outside of formalized court dress—it would not reappear except as an affectation of Aesthetic dress in the 1880s and its successor, the \"Young Edwardian\" look of the 1960s. Instead, cut and tailoring became much more important as an indicator of quality. This transformation can be attributed in part to an increased interest in antiquity stemming from the discovery of classical engravings, including the Elgin Marbles. The figures depicted in classical art were viewed as an exemplar of the ideal natural form, and an embodiment of Neoclassical ideas. The style in London for men became more and more refined and this was due to the influence of two things: the dandy and the romantic movement. The dandy (a man who placed high importance on personal aesthetics and hobbies but wanted to seem totally nonchalant about it) arguably emerged as early as the 1790s. Dark colors were all but mandatory. (Dark doesn’t necessarily mean dreary though, many items, particularly vests and coats were cut from rich, vivid fabrics.) Blue tailcoats with gold buttons, were everywhere. White muslin shirts (sometimes with ruffles on the neck/sleeves) were extremely popular. Breeches were officially on their way out, with pants/trousers taking their place. Fabrics in general were becoming more practical silk and more wool, cotton, and buckskin. Therefore, in the 18th century, dress was simplified and greater emphasis was put on tailoring to enhance the natural form of the body.\n\nThis was also the period of the rise of hair wax for styling men's hair, as well as mutton chops as a style of facial hair.\n\nBreeches became longer—tightly fitted leather riding breeches reached almost to the boot tops—and were replaced by pantaloons or trousers for fashionable street wear. The French Revolution is largely responsible for altering standard male dress. During the revolution, clothing symbolized the division between the upper classes and the working class revolutionaries. French rebels earned the nickname sans-culottes, or \"(the people without breeches,\" because of the loose floppy trousers they popularized.\n\nCoats were cutaway in front with long skirts or tails behind, and had tall standing collars. Lapels were not as large as they had been in years before and often featured an M-shaped notch unique to the period.\n\nShirts were made of linen, had attached collars, and were worn with stocks or wrapped in a cravat tied in various fashions. Pleated frills at the cuffs and front opening went out of fashion by the end of the period.\n\nWaistcoats were high-waisted, and squared off at the bottom, but came in a broad variety of styles. They were often double-breasted, with wide lapels and stand collars. Around 1805 large lapels that overlapped those of the jacket began to fall out of fashion, as did the 18th century tradition of wearing the coat unbuttoned, and gradually waistcoats became less visible. Shortly before this time waistcoats were commonly vertically striped but by 1810 plain white waistcoats were increasingly fashionable, as did horizontally striped waistcoats. High-collared waistcoats were fashionable until 1815, then collars were gradually lowered as the shawl collar came into use toward the end of this period.\n\nOvercoats or \"greatcoats\" were fashionable, often with contrasting collars of fur or velvet. The \"garrick\", sometimes called a coachman's coat, was a particularly popular style, and had between three and five short caplets attached to the collar.\n\nBoots, typically Hessian boots with heart-shaped tops and tassels were mainstay in men's footwear. After the Duke of Wellington defeated Napoleon at Waterloo in 1815, Wellington boots, as they were known, became the rage; tops were knee-high in front and cut lower in back. The jockey boot, with a turned-down cuff of lighter colored leather, had previously been popular but continued to be worn for riding. Court shoes with elevated heels became popular with the introduction of trousers.\n\nThe clothes-obsessed dandy first appeared in the 1790s, both in London and Paris. In the slang of the time, a dandy was differentiated from a fop in that the dandy's dress was more refined and sober. The dandy prided himself in \"natural excellence\" and tailoring allowed for exaggeration of the natural figure beneath fashionable outerwear. \nIn \"High Society: A Social History of the Regency Period, 1788–1830\", Venetia Murray writes:\nBeau Brummell set the fashion for dandyism in British society from the mid-1790s, which was characterized by immaculate personal cleanliness, immaculate linen shirts with high collars, perfectly tied cravats, and exquisitely tailored plain dark coats (contrasting in many respects with the \"maccaroni\" of the earlier 18th century).\n\nBrummell abandoned his wig and cut his hair short in a Roman fashion dubbed \"à la Brutus\", echoing the fashion for all things classical seen in women's wear of this period. He also led the move from breeches to snugly tailored pantaloons or trousers, often light-colored for day and dark for evening, based on working-class clothing adopted by all classes in France in the wake of the Revolution. In fact, Brummel's reputation for taste and refinement was such that, fifty years after his death, Max Beerbohm, wrote:\n\nIn certain congruities of dark cloth, in the rigid perfection of his linen, in the symmetry of his glove with his hand, lay the secret of Mr Brummell's miracles.\n\nNot every male aspiring to attain Brummel's sense of elegance and style succeeded, however, and these dandies were subject to caricature and ridicule. Venetia Murray quotes an excerpt from \"Diary of an Exquisite\", from \"The Hermit in London\", 1819:\n\nTook four hours to dress; and then it rained; ordered the tilbury and my umbrella, and drove to the fives' court; next to my tailors; put him off after two years tick; no bad fellow that Weston...broke three stay-laces and a buckle, tore the quarter of a pair of shoes, made so thin by O'Shaughnessy, in St. James's Street, that they were light as brown paper; what a pity they were lined with pink satin, and were quite the go; put on a pair of Hoby's; over-did it in perfuming my handkerchief, and had to recommence \"de novo\"; could not please myself in tying my cravat; lost three quarters of an hour by that, tore two pairs of kid gloves in putting them hastily on; was obliged to go gently to work with the third; lost another quarter of an hour by this; drove off furiously in my chariot but had to return for my splendid snuff-box, as I knew that I should eclipse the circle by it.\n\nDuring this period, younger men of fashion began to wear their hair in short curls, often with long sideburns. In 1795, Pitt's hair powder tax effectively ended the fashion for wigs and powder, and new styles like the Brutus and the Bedford Crop became fashionable. Older men, military officers, and those in conservative professions such as lawyers, judges, physicians, and servants retained their wigs and powder. Formal court dress also still required powdered hair.\n\nTricorne and bicorne hats were still worn, but the most fashionable hat was tall and slightly conical; this would evolve into the top hat and reign as the only hat for formal occasions for the next century.\n\n\nBoth boys and girls wore dresses until they were about four or five years old, when boys were \"breeched\", or put into trousers.\nDuring the first half of the Victorian era, there was a more or less negative view of women's styles of the 1795–1820 period. Some people would have felt slightly uncomfortable to be reminded that their mothers or grandmothers had once promenaded about in such styles (which could be considered indecent according to Victorian norms), and many would have found it somewhat difficult to really empathize with (or take seriously) the struggles of a heroine of art or literature if they were being constantly reminded that she was wearing such clothes. For such reasons, some Victorian history paintings of the Napoleonic wars intentionally avoided depicting accurate women's styles (see example below), Thackeray's illustrations to his book \"Vanity Fair\" depicted the women of the 1810s wearing 1840s fashions, and in Charlotte Brontë's 1849 novel \"Shirley\" (set in 1811–1812) neo-Grecian fashions are anachronistically relocated to an earlier generation.\n\nLater in the Victorian period, the Regency seemed to retreat to an unthreateningly remote historical distance, and Kate Greenaway and the Artistic Dress movement selectively revived elements of early 19th century fashions. During the late Victorian and Edwardian periods, many genre paintings, sentimental valentines, etc. contained loose depictions of 1795–1820 styles (then considered to be quaint relics of a bygone era). In the late 1960s / early 1970s, there was a limited fashion revival of the Empire silhouette.\n\nIn recent years, 1795–1820 fashions are most strongly associated with Jane Austen's writings, due to the various movie adaptations of her novels. There are also some Regency fashion \"urban myths\", such as that women dampened their gowns to make them appear even more diaphanous (something which was certainly not practiced by the vast majority of women of the period).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11189000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11189000", "title": "1870s in film", "text": "1870s in film\n\nThe decade of the 1870s in film involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5662293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5662293", "title": "Arg of Karim Khan", "text": "Arg of Karim Khan\n\nThe Karim Khan Castle ( \"Arg-e Karim Khan\") is a citadel located in the downtown Shiraz, southern Iran. It was built as part of a complex during the Zand dynasty and is named after Karim Khan, and served as his living quarters. In shape it resembles a medieval fortress.\n\nAt times, the citadel was used as a prison. Today, it is a museum operated by Iran's Cultural Heritage Organization.\n\nKarim Khan Castle is also known as Arge Karim Khan, Arge Karim Khani, Karim khans' castle or citadel of Karim Khan.\n\nArg-e-Karim Khan was built in 1180 AH (1766-7). Karim Khan invited the best architects and artists of the time and bought the best materials from other cities and abroad for the construction of the castle of Karim Khan, which was quickly constructed. During the Zand dynasty it was used by the king as living quarters. During the Qajar period it was used as the governor's seat.\n\nPrince Abdolhosein Mirza Farmanfarma, governor of Fars Province, ordered the miniatures in the castle to be renovated.\n\nAfter the fall of the Qajar Dynasty it was converted into a prison and the paintings were plastered over. In 1971 it was given to Iran's Cultural Heritage Organization. The renovation of the castle started in 1977.\n\nKarim Khan Castle is located at Shahrdari Square. It has a land area of 4,000 m and is in the center of a 12,800 m compound. The Citadel of Karim Khan consists of four high walls connected by four 14 m round brick towers at a 90-degree angle. Each 12 m wall is carnalized and is 3 meters thick at the base and 2.8 meters at the top. The design of the citadel combines military and residential architecture, for it was the home of Karim Khan and the military center of the dynasty.\n\nJames Edward Alexander in 1827 described the citadel as being surrounded by a \"deep wet ditch\".\n\nTile works depicting legendary tales were added at the entrance gate of the citadel during the Qajar Era.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "212030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212030", "title": "Beck's Futures", "text": "Beck's Futures\n\nBeck's Futures was a British art prize founded by London's Institute of Contemporary Arts and sponsored by Beck's beer given to contemporary artists. \n\nPrior to the establishment of the prize in 2000, Beck's had sponsored several exhibitions of contemporary art in Britain by providing free beer. Together with Artangel, they had also commissioned a number of works by artists, including Rachel Whiteread's \"House\" and \"Water Tower\" and pieces by Douglas Gordon and Tony Oursler.\n\nAlthough it does not receive as much publicity as the Turner Prize, the prize fund is larger - in 2003, it was £65,000 to the Turner Prize's £20,000. Of this, £20,000 went to the winner, who also took a share of the £40,000 divided between all the shortlisted artists. The remaining £5,000 was allocated to the Student Prize for Film and Video, with £2,000 of that going to the winner.\n\nFor the first three years of the prize a call for nominations was made to curators and critics around the UK. This proved controversial as unlike the Turner Prize artists knew they had been nominated even if they did not make the final shortlist. The open call was replaced with an anonymous nominations panel. \n\n\nThe 2003 prize, presented by Wim Wenders, was awarded on April 29 at the Institute of Contemporary Arts. As well as Nashashibi, the shortlisted artists were Bernd Behr, Nick Crowe, Alan Currall, Inventory, David Sherry, Lucy Skaer, Francis Upritchard and Carey Young. The panel of judges was chaired by the artist Michael Landy, and also included the curators Russell Ferguson, Maria Lind and Hans Ulrich Obrist.\n\nThe 2004 prize was awarded on April 27 to Saskia Olde Wolbers. The other shortlisted artists were Haluk Akakçe, Tonico Lemos Auad, Simon Bedwell, Ergin Çavusoglu, Andrew Cross, Susan Philipsz, Imogen Stidworthy, Hayley Tompkins and Nicoline Van Harskamp.\n\nThe 2005 prize, presented by Richard Hamilton, was awarded on April 26 to Christina Mackie. The other shortlisted artists were Lali Chetwynd, Luke Fowler, Ryan Gander, Daria Martin, and Donald Urquhart.\n\nThe 2006 prize was awarded to Matt Stokes by a panel made-up of Jake and Dinos Chapman, Martin Creed, Cornelia Parker, Yinka Shonibare and Gillian Wearing. There was also a public vote, the outcome of which was added as an extra vote in the judging panels final count. Shortlisted for the prize were Blood ‘n’ Feathers (Jo Robertson & Lucy Stein, Pablo Bronstein, Stefan Brüggemann, Richard Hughes, Flávia Müller Medeiros, Seb Patane, Olivia Plender, Simon Popper, Jamie Shovlin, Daniel Sinsel, Matt Stokes, Sue Tompkins, Bedwyr Williams. This was to be the Beck's sponsored prize's last year.\n\n"}
{"id": "50864475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50864475", "title": "Billingham Bags", "text": "Billingham Bags\n\nBillingham Bags (M Billingham & Co Ltd) is a British brand of professional bags and vests for carrying cameras, lenses, laptops and photography accessories. The company's headquarters are in Cradley Heath, England.\n\nBillingham Bags (M Billingham & Co Ltd) was founded in 1973 by Martin Billingham, and is still owned and run by the Billingham family. Originally a manufacturer of fishing bags, in 1978 Billingham discovered that a large number of their bags were being sold to a photographer in New York City. Within a year production had switched almost entirely to specialist camera bags. Billingham Bags have worldwide distribution and are still hand made in Cradley Heath, England. Billingham bags are notable for their process of bonding the fabric of the bag to butyl rubber for water resistance. Billingham have had partnerships with well known camera manufacturers Leica and Hasselblad, making custom camera bags for both companies. They have also had a number of collaborations with British fashion and design house Pedlars. The company celebrated its 40th anniversary in 2013.\n\nWhile Billingham produce rucksacks, vests and laptop/tablet accessories, they are most widely known for their range of shoulder bags which they have been producing for photographers since 1978. The bags are well regarded by professional photographers, photojournalists and travel writers due to their traditional construction of canvas and leather, although some also use synthetic materials. Users of Billingham bags include television presenters Richard Hammond, who described his as 'a sort of comfort blanket', and Matt James.\n\n"}
{"id": "37377540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37377540", "title": "Bloody Mary folklore in popular culture", "text": "Bloody Mary folklore in popular culture\n\nBoth folk and urban legends have served as inspiration for a number of depictions of Bloody Mary, a ghost, phantom or spirit conjured to reveal the future; these are especially prevalent in films and television shows dealing with the supernatural.\n\nSpecific reference to Bloody Mary are made in the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4735128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4735128", "title": "Carolingian architecture", "text": "Carolingian architecture\n\nCarolingian architecture is the style of north European Pre-Romanesque architecture belonging to the period of the Carolingian Renaissance of the late 8th and 9th centuries, when the Carolingian dynasty dominated west European politics. It was a conscious attempt to emulate Roman architecture and to that end it borrowed heavily from Early Christian and Byzantine architecture, though there are nonetheless innovations of its own, resulting in a unique character.\n\nThe gatehouse of the monastery at Lorsch, built around 800, exemplifies classical inspiration for Carolingian architecture, built as a triple-arched hall dominating the gateway, with the arched facade interspersed with attached classical columns and pilasters above.\n\nThe Palatine Chapel in Aachen constructed between 792–805 was inspired by the octagonal Justinian church of San Vitale in Ravenna, built in the 6th century, but at Aachen there is a tall monumental western entrance complex, as a whole called a \"westwork\"—a Carolingian innovation.\n\nCarolingian churches generally are basilican, like the Early Christian churches of Rome, and commonly incorporated westworks, which is arguably the precedent for the western facades of later medieval cathedrals. An original westwork survives today at the Abbey of Corvey, built in 885.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54376928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54376928", "title": "Casbah City (TV series)", "text": "Casbah City (TV series)\n\nCasbah City () is an Algerian comedy television series, directed by Issam Bouguerra. It debuted on 27 May 2017 on El Djazairia One.\n\nThe series revolves around the diary of neighbours living in the popular casbah neighbourhood, and what happens inside. Some of the quarrels between neighbours and those who challenge each other in times of crisis appear.\n"}
{"id": "3005126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3005126", "title": "Chora Church", "text": "Chora Church\n\nThe Church of the Holy Saviour in Chora (, ) is a medieval Byzantine Greek Orthodox church preserved as the Chora Museum in the Edirnekapı neighborhood of Istanbul. The neighborhood is situated in the western part of the municipality () of the Fatih district. In the 16th century, during the Ottoman era, the church was converted into a mosque; it became a museum in 1948. The interior of the building is covered with some of the oldest and finest surviving Byzantine mosaics and frescoes; they were uncovered and restored after the building was secularized and turned into a museum.\n\nThe Chora Church was originally built as part of a monastery complex outside the walls of Constantinople, to the south of the Golden Horn. Literally translated, the church's full name was the Church of the Holy Saviour in the Country: although \"The Church of the Holy Redeemer in the Fields\" would be a more natural rendering of the name in English. (Greek , \"hē Ekklēsia tou Hagiou Sōtēros en tēi Chōrai\"). The last part of that name, Chora, referring to its location originally outside of the walls, became the shortened name of the church. The original church on this site was built in the early 4th century, and stood outside of the 4th century walls of Constantine the Great. However, when Theodosius II built his formidable land walls in 413–414, the church became incorporated within the city's defences, but retained the name \"Chora\". The name must have carried symbolic meaning, as the mosaics in the narthex describe Christ as the \"Land of the Living\" (, \"hē Chōra tōn zōntōn\") and Mary, the Mother of Jesus, as the \"Container of the Uncontainable\" (, \"hē Chōra tou Achōrētou\").\n\nThe majority of the fabric of the current building dates from 1077–1081, when Maria Dukaina, the mother-in-law of Alexius I Comnenus, rebuilt the Chora Church as an inscribed cross or quincunx: a popular architectural style of the time. Early in the 12th century, the church suffered a partial collapse, perhaps due to an earthquake. The church was rebuilt by Isaac Comnenus, Alexius's third son. However, it was only after the third phase of building, two centuries after, that the church as it stands today was completed. The powerful Byzantine statesman Theodore Metochites endowed the church with many of its fine mosaics and frescos. Theodore's impressive decoration of the interior was carried out between 1315 and 1321. The mosaic-work is the finest example of the Palaeologian Renaissance. The artists remain unknown. In 1328, Theodore was sent into exile by the usurper Andronicus III Palaeologus. However, he was allowed to return to the city two years later, and lived out the last two years of his life as a monk in his Chora Church.\n\nIn the late 13th and early 14th centuries, the monastery was home to the scholar Maximus Planudes, who was responsible for the restoration and reintroduction of Ptolemy's \"Geography\" to the Byzantines and, ultimately, to Renaissance Italy. During the last siege of Constantinople in 1453, the Icon of the Theotokos Hodegetria, considered the protector of the City, was brought to Chora in order to assist the defenders against the assault of the Ottomans.\n\nAround fifty years after the fall of the city to the Ottomans, Atık Ali Paşa, the Grand Vizier of Sultan Bayezid II, ordered the Chora Church to be converted into a mosque — \"Kariye Camii\". Due to the prohibition against iconic images in Islam, the mosaics and frescoes were covered behind a layer of plaster. This and frequent earthquakes in the region have taken their toll on the artwork.\n\nIn 1948, Americans Thomas Whittemore and Paul A. Underwood, from the Byzantine Institute of America and the Dumbarton Oaks Center for Byzantine Studies, sponsored a restoration program. From that time on, the building ceased to be a functioning mosque. In 1958, it was opened to the public as a museum — \"Kariye Müzesi\".\n\nThe Chora Church is not as large as some of the other surviving Byzantine churches of Istanbul (it covers 742.5 m²) but it is unique among them, because of its almost completely still extant internal decoration. The building divides into three main areas: the entrance hall or \"narthex\", the main body of the church or \"naos\", and the side chapel or \"parecclesion\". The building has six domes: two in the esonarthex, one in the parecclesion and three in the naos.\n\nThe main, west door of the Chora Church opens into the narthex. It divides north-south into the \"exonarthex\" and \"esonarthex\".\n\nThe exonarthex (or outer narthex) is the first part of the church that one enters. It is a transverse corridor, 4 m wide and 23 m long, which is partially open on its eastern length into the parallel esonarthex. The southern end of the exonarthex opens out through the esonarthex forming a western ante-chamber to the parecclesion. The mosaics that decorate the exonarthex include:\n\n\nThe esonarthex (or inner narthex) is similar to the exonarthex, running parallel to it. Like the exonarthex, the esonarthex is 4 m wide, but it is slightly shorter, 18 m long. Its central, eastern door opens into the naos, whilst another door, at the southern end of the esonarthex opens into the rectangular ante-chamber of the parecclesion. At its northern end, a door from the esonarthex leads into a broad west-east corridor that runs along the northern side of the naos and into the prothesis. The esonarthex has two domes. The smaller is above the entrance to the northern corridor; the larger is midway between the entrances into the naos and the pareclession.\n\n\nThe mosaics in the first three bays of the inner narthex give an account of the Life of the Virgin, and her parents. Some of them are as follows:\n\nThe central doors of the esonarthex lead into the main body of the church, the \"naos\". The largest dome in the church (7.7 m diameter) is above the centre of the naos. Two smaller domes flank the modest apse: the northern dome is over the prothesis, which is linked by short passage to the bema; the southern dome is over the diaconicon, which is reached via the parecclesion.\n\nTo the right of the esonarthex, doors open into the side chapel, or \"parecclesion\". The parecclesion was used as a mortuary chapel for family burials and memorials. The second largest dome (4.5 m diameter) in the church graces the centre of the roof of the parecclesion. A small passageway links the parecclesion directly into the naos, and off this passage can be found a small oratory and a storeroom. The parecclesion is covered in frescoes:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "512143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=512143", "title": "Clapper loader", "text": "Clapper loader\n\nA clapper loader or second assistant camera (2nd AC) is part of a film crew whose main functions are that of loading the raw film stock into camera magazines, operating the clapperboard (slate) at the beginning of each take, marking the actors as necessary, and maintaining all records and paperwork for the camera department. The name \"clapper loader\" tends to be used in the United Kingdom and Commonwealth, while \"second assistant camera\" tends to be favored in the United States, but the job is essentially the same whichever title is used. The specific responsibilities and division of labor within the department will almost always vary depending on the circumstances of the shoot.\n\nClapper loaders have a very important role as practically the only people on set who directly and physically oversee the state of the undeveloped negative. The loader - the only person who actually handles the negative between the manufacturer and the laboratory - thus can easily render an entire day's work useless if the film is handled improperly. Additionally, the loader usually controls all records with regard to the film stock - from when it is received until when it is sent out to the lab; if this information is miscommunicated or missing, this too can destroy an expensive shoot. Furthermore, the loader usually has much more to do in addition to these tasks. Noted director of photography Oliver Stapleton has written on his website:\n\nA full description of the job duties includes the following (although different shoots may often not always require all of these):\n"}
{"id": "13607556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13607556", "title": "Comedy of menace", "text": "Comedy of menace\n\nComedy of menace is the body of plays written by David Campton, Nigel Dennis, N. F. Simpson, and Harold Pinter. The term was coined by drama critic Irving Wardle, who borrowed it from the subtitle of Campton's play \"\", in reviewing Pinter's and Campton's plays in \"Encore\" in 1958. (Campton's subtitle \"Comedy of Menace\" is a jocular play-on-words derived from \"comedy of manners\"—\"menace\" being \"manners\" pronounced with somewhat of a Judeo-English accent.)\n\nCiting Wardle's original publications in \"Encore\" magazine (1958), Susan Hollis Merritt points out that in \"Comedy of Menace\" Wardle \"first applies this label to Pinter's work … describ[ing] Pinter as one of 'several playwrights who have been tentatively lumped together as the \"non-naturalists\" or \"abstractionists\" ' (28)\" (Merritt 225). His article \"Comedy of Menace,\" Merritt continues,\ncenters on \"The Birthday Party\" because it is the only play of Pinter's that Wardle had seen [and reviewed] at the time, yet he speculates on the basis of \"descriptions of [Pinter's] other plays, 'The Room' and 'The Dumb Waiter', [that Pinter] is a writer dogged by one image—the womb\" (33). Mentioning the acknowledged \"literary influences\" on Pinter's work—\"Beckett, Kafka and American gangster films\"—Wardle argues that \" 'The Birthday Party' exemplifies the type of comic menace which gave rise to this article.\" (225)\n\nIn \"Comedy of Menace\", as Merritt observes, on the basis of his experience of \"The Birthday Party\" and others' accounts of the other two plays, Wardle proposes that \"Comedy enables the committed agents and victims of destruction to come on and off duty; to joke about the situation while oiling a revolver; to display absurd or endearing features behind their masks of implacable resolution; to meet … in paper hats for a game of blind man's buff\"; he suggests how \"menace\" in Pinter's plays \"stands for something more substantial: destiny,\" and that destiny, \"handled in this way—not as an austere exercise in classicism, but as an incurable disease which one forgets about most of the time and whose lethal reminders may take the form of a joke—is an apt dramatic motif for an age of conditioned behaviour in which orthodox man is a willing collaborator in his own destruction\" (Wardle, \"Comedy of Menace\" 33; rpt. in \"The Encore Reader\" 91).\n\n\"Just two years later\" (1960), however, Wardle retracted \"Comedy of Menace\" in his review of \"The Caretaker\", stating: \"On the strength of 'The Birthday Party' and the pair of one-acters, I rashly applied the phrase 'comedy of menace' to Pinter's writing. I now take it back\" (\"There's Music\" 130, as qtd. in Merritt 225–26).\n\nAfter Wardle's retraction of \"comedy of menace\" as he had applied it to Pinter's writing, Pinter himself also occasionally disavowed it and questioned its relevance to his work (as he also did with his own offhand but apt statement that his plays are about \"the weasel under the cocktail cabinet\"). For example, in December 1971, in his interview with Pinter about \"Old Times\", Mel Gussow recalled that \"After \"The Homecoming\" [Pinter] said that [he] 'couldn't any longer stay in the room with this bunch of people who opened doors and came in and went out. \"Landscape\" and \"Silence\" [the two short poetic memory plays that were written between \"The Homecoming\" and \"Old Times\"] are in a very different form. There isn't any menace at all.' \" Later, when Gussow asked Pinter to expand on his view that he had \"tired\" of \"menace\", Pinter added: \"when I said that I was tired of menace, I was using a word that I didn't coin. I never thought of menace myself. It was called 'comedy of menace' quite a long time ago [1958]. I never stuck categories on myself, or on any of us [playwrights]. But if what I understand the word menace to mean is certain elements that I have employed in the past in the shape of a particular play, then I don't think it's worthy of much more exploration\" (Gussow, \"Conversations with Pinter\" 18, 24).\n\nDespite Wardle's retraction of \"comedy of menace\" (and Pinter's later qualifications), \"Comedy of menace\" and \"comedies of menace\" caught on and have been prevalent since the late 1950s in advertisements and in critical accounts, notices, and reviews to describe Pinter's early plays and some of his later work as well. As Merritt points out, among other examples of critics' usage of this and similar categories of Pinter's work, after Gussow's 1971 \"conversation\" with Pinter, \"Though he echoes Wardle's concept, Gussow seems to avoid using \"comedy of menace\" when reviewing the CSC Repertory Theatre's 1988 production of \"The Birthday Party\". While still emphasizing Pinter's 'terrors' and the 'shiver beneath the laughter,' Gussow describes the play as 'a play of intrigue, with an underlying motif of betrayal' … [and] [Bernard F.] Dukore calls the play 'a comedy (of menace or otherwise)' … (Merritt 10).\n\n\nIn discussing the first production of Pinter's first full-length play, \"The Birthday Party\" (1958), which followed his first play, \"The Room\" (1957), his authorised official biographer Michael Billington points out that Wardle \"once excellently\" described its setting (paraphrasing Wardle), as \"a banal living-room [which] opens up to the horrors of modern history\" (Billington 86).\n\n\nIn his second one-act play, \"The Dumb Waiter\" (1960), as accentuated through the 2008 film by Martin McDonagh closely resembling and markedly influenced by it, \"In Bruges\", \"Pinter conveys the idea of political terror through the staccato rhythms of music-hall cross-talk and the urban thriller: Hackney Empire cross-fertilises with Hemingway's \"The Killers\" [1927]\" (Billington 90), one of Pinter's own acknowledged early influences, along with Franz Kafka (348–49); Elizabethan and Jacobean dramatists, such as William Shakespeare, John Webster, and Cyril Tourneur, whose work his schoolmaster Joseph Brearley had introduced to him; Samuel Beckett (mostly his novels [43]); and black-and-white American movies of the 1940s and 1950s.\n\n\"A near-perfect play about the testiness of a collapsing partnership and the divide-and-rule tactics of authority,\" according to Billington, \"The Dumb Waiter\" focuses on two characters, Gus and Ben; Gus is \"the man who questions the agreed system and who is ultimately destroyed by his quest for meaning\"; Ben, \"the man who blindly obeys orders and thereby places himself at risk. (If the system can arbitrarily dispose of his partner, why not of him?)\" (92). As Pinter's \"The Dumb Waiter\" has been categorised as a \"comedy of menace,\" so may be McDonagh's \"In Bruges\", as it closely resembles it; yet, despite the comedy and the sense of threat growing out of the menace, these works of Pinter and McDonagh are, in Pinter's words to Billington, also \"doing something which can be described as political\" (92). At the same time, [Pinter] had – and still [in 1996 through to the time of his death in 2008] has – an acute sense of the fragility of earthly happiness and of the terrors that haunt us even from infancy\" (92).\n\nThe \"punning title\" of \"The Dumb Waiter\", Billington observes, \"carries several layers of meaning\": \"It obviously refers to the antique serving-hatch that despatches [sic] ever more grotesque orders for food to these bickering gunmen\"—the dumbwaiter; \"But it also applies to Gus, who, troubled by the nature of the mission [their next job as hitmen] to realise he is its chosen target; or, indeed to Ben, who, by his total obedience to a higher authority that forces him to eliminate his partner, exposes his own vulnerability\" (89). As Gus \"dumbly\" awaits his fate, he may be a subservient partner who awaits orders from the \"senior partner\" Ben, but Ben too is subservient to The Powers That Be, a contemporary variation on Deus ex machina, manipulating both the mechanical dumbwaiter and them through its increasingly extravagant and thus comically inconvenient \"orders\" for increasingly exotic dishes, unnerving both of them.\n\nBillington adds:\nThis being Pinter, the play has a metaphorical openness. You can interpret it as an Absurdist comedy – a kind of \"Godot\" in Birmingham – about two men passing the time in a universe without meaning or purpose. You can see it as a cry of protest against a whimsically cruel God who treats man as His plaything – even the twelve matches that are mysteriously pushed under the door have been invested with religious significance [by critics]. But it makes much more sense if seen as a play about the dynamics of power and the nature of partnership. Ben and Gus are both victims of some unseen authority \"and\" a surrogate married couple quarrelling, testing, talking past each other and raking over old times. (90)\n\nThe comedy in this \"comedy of menace\" often derives from such arguments between Gus and Ben, especially the one that occurs when \"Ben tells Gus to go and light the kettle,\" a \"semantic nit-picking that is a standard part of music-hall comedy\": \"All the great stage and film double acts – Jewel and Warriss, Abbott and Costello – fall into this kind of verbal worrying in which the bullying 'male' straight man issues instructions which are questioned by the more literal-minded 'female' partner\" —\n\nGUS: Light what?<br>\nBEN: The kettle.<br>\nGUS: You mean the gas.<br>\nBEN: Who does?<br>\nGUS: You do.<br>\nBEN: (\"his eyes narrowing\"): What do you mean, I mean the gas?<br>\nGUS: Well, that's what you mean, don't you? The gas.<br>\nBEN: (\"Powerfully\"): If I say go and light the kettle I mean go and light the kettle.<br>\nGUS: How can you light a kettle?<br>\nBEN: It's a figure of speech! Light the kettle. It's a figure of speech! (Qtd. in Billington 90–91)\n\nAs Billington observes further,\nThis kind of comic pedantry has precise echoes of the great Sid Field – ironically [since the city is the setting of this play] a Birmingham comic – who had a famous sketch in which he played a virgin of the greens being hectored by Jerry Desmonde's golf pro who would cry, in exasperation, 'When I say \"Slowly Back\" I don't mean \"Slowly Back\", I mean \"Slowly Back.\" ' At another moment, the bullying pro would tell the hapless Sid to get behind the ball and he would vainly protest 'But it's behind all round it'. But, where in a music-hall sketch this kind of semantic by-play was its own justification, in Pinter it becomes a crucial part of the power-structure. … The pay-off comes when Gus, having dogmatically insisted that the accurate phrase is 'put on the kettle', suddenly finds an irritated Ben adopting the right usage. (91)\n\n\"Everything\" in \"The Dumb Waiter\", Billington observes, \"contributes towards a necessary end\"; for, \"the image, as Pete says in [Pinter's only novel] \"The Dwarfs\", stands in exact correspondence and relation to the idea\" (91). In this example, the central image and central metaphor, the dumbwaiter, while \"despatching ever more unlikely orders,\" serves as \"both a visual gag and a metaphor for manipulative authority\" (91), and therein lies its menace. When Ben instructs Gus verbally, while practicing their \"routine\" for killing their next victim, he leaves out the most important line, which instructs Gus to \"take out\" his \"gun\" (Pinter, \"The Dumb Waiter\" 114–15):\n\n\"BEN \"frowns and presses his forehead\".<br>\nGUS. You've missed something out.<br>\nBEN. I know. What?<br>\nGUS. I haven't taken my gun out, according to you.<br>\nBEN. You take your gun out—<br>\nGUS. After I've closed the door.<br>\nBEN. After you've closed the door.<br>\nGUS. You've never missed that out before, you know that?<br>\nThe crucial significance of the omission becomes clear only at the very end of the play, when \"Gus enters through the door stage-right – the one marked for the intended victim – stripped of his gun and holster\"; it becomes clear that \"he\" is going to be \"Ben's target\" (Billington 92), as Ben's \"revolver [is] levelled at the door\", though the play ends \"before\" Ben fires any shot (Pinter, \"The Dumb Waiter\" 121).\n\n\nIn an entry on Pinter for the 1969 edition of \"The Encyclopedia of World Drama\" cited by Merritt, Wardle repeats and updates some of his first perspective on \"comedy of menace\" as he had applied it initially to Pinter's writing:\nEarly in his writing career Pinter admitted to three influences: Franz Kafka, American gangster films, and Samuel Beckett. . . . At that time his plays, more than those of any other plawright's , were responsible for the newly coined term 'comedy of menace.' This phrase certainly makes sense when applied to \"The Birthday Party\" . . . or to \"The Dumb Waiter\". . . . But 'menace' is hardly the word for \"The Caretaker\", and still less for subsequent plays in which Pinter increasingly exchanged his derelict settings and down-and-out characters for environments of moneyed elegance (657–58). (Qtd. in Merritt 240)\n\nDespite those more-recent caveats regarding applying the phrase that he himself initially coined for Pinter's writing to \"The Caretaker\"—only the second of Pinter's full-length plays produced by then and the one that launched his career as a successful playwright in 1960 (Merritt 9, 226) —and to Pinter's later plays, scenes in both acts of \"The Caretaker\" in which Mick confronts an unsuspecting Davies and scares him almost speechless (Pinter, \"The Caretaker\" 129, 146) also epitomise how comedy and menace still co-exist in Pinter's text and on Pinter's stage.\n\nThe comic aspects of this play multiply, reaching a crescendo in Mick's monologue in Act Two describing his \"deepest wishes\" for decorating the attic room (161, 173) and falling with Davies, a tramp taken in out of the cold by his brother, suggesting that \"if\" he can \"just get down to Sidcup\" to get his \"papers\" and \"sort\" himself \"out\" (113–16, 164), his refrain and excuse for everything (153, 175–79), he might just be able to accomplish Mick's hyperbolic pipe dream and \"decorate the attic room out for [Mick]\" (164), leading Mick to accuse Davies of misrepresenting himself as \"an experienced first-class professional interior and exterior decorator\" (172–74), an absurd conclusion, given the tangible evidence of the down-and-out Davies before Mick (and the audience).\n\nPinter's friend the late film and stage director David Jones, who directed the play for the Roundabout Theatre, in New York City, in 2003 (having previously directed Pinter's 1983 film of \"Betrayal\", as well as other works by or featuring him), reminds his audience that Pinter himself said, in a widely quoted statement, that \"The Caretaker\" is only \"funny, up to a point\" and that \"beyond that point\" is why he wrote it:\nThere is always mischief lurking in the darkest corners. The world of The Caretaker is a bleak one, its characters damaged and lonely. But they are all going to survive. And in their dance to that end they show a frenetic vitality and a wry sense of the ridiculous that balance heartache and laughter. Funny, but not too funny. As Pinter wrote, back in 1960: \"As far as I am concerned The Caretaker IS funny, up to a point. Beyond that point, it ceases to be funny, and it is because of that point that I wrote it.\" (Jones)\n\"Beyond the point\" of the comedy (the \"funny\") lies the scary territory that threatens one's very existence (Billington 92), which Wardle and others commonly have \"labeled\" or \"pigeonholed\" (depending on one's perspective) as \"menace\" (Merritt 9–10).\n\n\nThough \"comedy of menace\" is generally applied to Pinter's early work of the late 1950s through the middle of the 1960s, including \"The Collection\" (1961), \"The Lover\" (1963), \"Tea Party\" (1965, 1968), and \"The Homecoming\" (1965), even Pinter's late plays, like \"Ashes to Ashes\" (1996) and \"Celebration\" (2000), his last two full-length stage plays, exhibit his characteristic amalgam of the comic and the menacing, a sense of threat or impending doom; there is less comedy and more menace in \"Ashes to Ashes\", in which heavy echoes of the Holocaust predominate; a more comedy than menace in \"Celebration\", where heightened comic dialogue outweighs the frightening undercurrents of terror, the terrifying, or the terrible.\n\n\nWhile reviewers and other audience members describe \"Celebration\" as hilarious (\"one of Pinter's funniest plays\", according to Billington [404]), the nature of the relationships of two sets of diners (three couples) having dinner in an upscale restaurant (which some critics assume that Pinter modeled on The Ivy, in London's West End) – \"this is the best and most expensive restaurant in the whole of Europe\" (Pinter, \"Celebration\" 364) – remains characteristically ambiguous; Billington describes one set of couples as \"a strangely rootless bunch with a depleted sense of family\" (405).\n\nOne set (the two couples seated at Table One) consists of brothers Lambert and Matt and their wives, Prue and Julie, who are sisters; the second set of diners (the couple seated at Table Two) consists of a banker and his young wife, Suki, who comically turns out to have had an affair with Lambert when she was 18 (Billington 104).\n\nAs the \"maître d'hôtel\" emits platitudes geared to elevate the nouveaux riches in their own imagined esteem (\"I believe the concept of this restaurant rests in that public house of my childhood\" [Pinter, \"Celebration\" 371]), the \"maîtress d'hôtel\" appears to dwell on a peculiar past family and sex life (373–74), while the Waiter engages in \"interjections\" spinning fantasied impossible memories of a grandfather who knew writers, other artists, and various other public figures of multiple decades and geographical locations too far apart to have been experienced personally in one man's lifetime (367, 375).\n\nLambert and Matt reveal themselves to be rather uncouth bullies (\"Teddy boys\", according to some London reviews)—\n\n\"Lambert's mobile phone rings\".<br>\nLAMBERT Who the fuck's this?<br>\n\"He switches it on\".<br>\nLAMBERT (\"cont\".) Yes? What? (\"He listens briefly\".) I said no calls! It's my fucking wedding anniversary!<br>\n\"He switches it off\".<br>\nLAMBERT (\"cont\".) Cunt.<br> (Pinter, \"Celebration\" 364)—\nwho describe themselves as \"consultants … Strategy consultants. … It means we don't carry guns. … We don't have to! … We're peaceful strategy consultants. … Worldwide. Keeping the peace (379). \"Strategy consultant\" could be a euphemistic catchall for warmonger, manager of terrorism, purveyor of counter-terrorism, or orderer of covert operations.\n\nAs the banker Russell interprets their explanation, \"peaceful strategy consultants\" seems vaguely menacing: \"We need more people like you. Taking responsibility. Taking charge. Keeping the peace. Enforcing the peace. Enforcing peace. We need more like you\" (379). This speech stressing \"force\" (in the repetitions of \"Enforcing\") occurs after Russell has already revealed his own ilk:\nLook at me. I'm basically a totally disordered personality; some people would describe me as a psychopath. (\"to Suki\") Am I right?<br>\nSUKI Yes.<br>\nRUSSELL But when I'm sitting in this restaurant I suddenly find I have no psychopathic tendencies at all. I don't feel like killing everyone in sight, I don't feel like putting a bomb under everyone's arse. I feel something quite different, I have a sense of equilibrium, of harmony, I love my fellow diners. Now this is very unusual for me. Normally I feel—as I've just said—absoute malice and hatred towards everyone within spitting distance—but here I feel love. How do you explain it?<br>\nSUKI It's the ambience. (370–71)\n\nLambert and Matt are distantly reminiscent of Gus and Ben from \"The Dumb Waiter\"; but distinctly less polite while living much higher on the hog. One imagines such characters \n\"strategically\" plotting the \"peaceful\" rendition of others without any qualms while sipping Perrier and simultaneously planning their next wedding-anniversary dinner celebration (perhaps with a different set of wives) on their mobiles.\n\nAs the Waiter says in his apparently penultimate \"interjection\", in which one might detect intimations of mortality:\n\nMy grandfather introduced me to the mystery of life and I'm still in the middle of it. I can't find the door to get out. My grandfather got out of it. He left it behind him and he didn't look back.<br>\nHe got that absolutely right.<br>\nAnd I'd like to make one further interjection.<br>\n\"He stands still\".\n\"Slow fade\".<br>\n\n\nPinter mocks mobile phones comically in an ostensibly-trivial wireless conversation, while still suggesting a residual bit of menace in the unsaid, developed as his last revue sketch \"Apart From That\" (2006). As Billington observes, this dramatic sketch inspired by Pinter's strong aversion to mobile phones is \"very funny\", but \"as two people trade banalities over their mobile phones[,] there is a hint of something ominous and unspoken behind the clichéd chat\" (429), as illustrated in the following excerpt:\n\n\"Two people on mobile phones\".<br>\nGENE.<br>\nHow are you?<br>\nLAKE.<br>\nVery well. And you? Are you well?<br>\nGENE.<br>\nI'm terribly well. How about you?<br>\nLAKE.<br>\nReally well. I'm really well.<br>\nGENE.<br>\nI'm so glad.<br>\nLAKE.<br>\nApart from ... oh you know ...<br>\nGENE.<br>\nI know.<br>\nLAKE.<br>\nApart from ... oh you know ...<br>\nGENE.<br>\nI do know. But apart from that ...?<br>\nLAKE.<br>\nHow about you?<br>\nGENE.<br>\nOh you know ... all things considered ...<br>\nLAKE.<br>\nI know. But apart from that ...?\n\"Silence\".\nGENE.<br>\nSorry. I've lost you.<br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21269835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21269835", "title": "Dedalo Minosse Prize", "text": "Dedalo Minosse Prize\n\nThe Dedalo Minosse International Prize for commissioning a building is promoted by ALA-Assoarchitetti, Italian association for professional Architects.\nThis prize, was created in 1997 to emphasize the client's role as a fundamental partner of both the architect and the builder in generating high-quality work.\n\nThe name Dedalo Minosse derives from Daedalus and Minos.\nDaedalus is considered the first architect of greek mythology, while Minos was the first client.\n\nThe Prize is awarded biennially by a jury that includes internationally renowned architects, writers, art historians, journalists, industry executives, and planning officials.\nAdditional prizes are awarded by ALA-Assoarchitetti and by Dedalo-Minosse patrons.\n\nThe presentation ceremony takes place in Teatro Olimpico in Vicenza, northern Italy, the city of architect Andrea Palladio.\n\nEligibility is open to architects, engineers and clients from around the world, with separate recognition for established architects and those under 40 years of age.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3736928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3736928", "title": "Detective dénouement", "text": "Detective dénouement\n\nThe detective dénouement (, ; ) is a variant on the literary dénouement common to mystery stories.\n\nDetective dénouement was first popularised by the Sherlock Holmes novels, but is present in many stories, such as the works of Agatha Christie or in Ellen Raskin's young adult novel \"The Westing Game\".\n\nIn detective stories, the dénouement is the segment of a mystery novel in which the protagonist of the story, or a character serving in his or her stead, reveals all of the clues and lays out the conclusion for the other characters. This is usually in an attempt to show the readers how the character came to the conclusion and figured out the mystery. One famous example of the detective dénouement is the explanatory speech given by a forensic psychologist after the climax of the 1960 film \"Psycho\". In the U.S. television series \"Monk\", the title character (Adrian Monk) usually uses this method with the words \"here's what happened.\" A black-and-white montage of the events prior to the murder accompanies his narration.\n"}
{"id": "47626269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47626269", "title": "Dimitrie Serafim", "text": "Dimitrie Serafim\n\nDimitrie Serafim (1862 – 1931) was a Romanian painter in the Academic and Impressionist styles. \n\nSerafim was born in Bucharest. His father, Anton Serafim (1838-1911) was a church painter of Greek ancestry who originally came from Varna. His two brothers also became church painters. \n\nFrom 1882 to 1888, he studied in Bucharest with Theodor Aman and Gheorghe Tattarescu, After failing to receive a scholarship, his family provided him with an allowance to study at the Académie Julian in Paris. In 1892, he exhibited at the first \"Salon de Arta Românească\", finally receiving a stipend that enabled him to return to Paris, where he worked with Jean-Léon Gerôme and Jean-Jacques Henner. \n\nUnder the influence of Tattarescu and Nicolae Grigorescu, he had focused on Impressionism, but his later studies turned him to the Academic style and he began to favor large canvases on mythological themes. Many of his post-Paris works have been characterized as \"L'art pompier\".\n\nAfter 1901, he was a Professor at the \"Academia de Arte Frumoase\" (now the Universitatea Națională de Arte București), but was apparently not a particularly distinguished teacher. His paintings were later criticized by Petru Comarnescu for their \"excessive pathos\". Very few of his works are in museums.\n\n"}
{"id": "50571402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50571402", "title": "Elena Kaplinskaya", "text": "Elena Kaplinskaya\n\nElena Kaplinskaya (October 17, 1928, Moscow - January 3, 2014, Moscow), Russian writer, playwright, screenwriter, author of theatrical dramas, screenplays, short stories and novels, a member of the Russian Writers 'Union, the Union of Journalists of Russia and the Moscow Writers' Union [1]\n\nElena Kaplinskaya was born in Moscow in 1928 and studied at the Musical College of Gnesin. In 1955 she graduated from the scriptwriting faculty of the VGIK and married the Polish actor and film director Tsezary Kaplinsky. She was a member of the Writers' Union from 1978 and from 1994 member of the Union of Journalists of Russia. Kaplinskaya trained as a scriptwriter and became the winner of many creative writing competitions including that of Belarusfilm, the competition for the Prize of Pogodin and the International Competition for the best woman's story in 1992.\n\nElena Kaplinskaya worked with prominent contemporary filmmakers such as Kostromenko, Titov, Brovkin and many others. Besides screenplays Kaplinskaya wrote theatrical plays, novels and short stories, and her articles were published in literary journals including the independent literary and political magazine \"Friendship of Nations\".\n\nElena Kaplinskaya's native city, Moskow, and the city played a central part in her stories. In her novel \"A Moscow Story\" the image of the city and its habitants are presented as the symbol of goodness and justice. The novel was born out of the complex changes in the social life in Moscow in the 1970s and early 1980s and became the subject of heated social and literary discussions. The novel was translated into French in 1984 and was published in Paris by Messidor Publishing.\n\nThe heroes of her other novel, \"The Cinema of Moscow\", belong to the first generation of post-war youth in Russia. The story also partly takes part in Hungary and describes the life of the Hungarian anti-fascists and documentary film director Ilona Kolonits. The play \"The Best Loved\" Kaplinskaya wrote in memory of all those who died in World War II in Russia at the Battle of Kursk while defending the cities of Leningrad (now Saint-Petersburg) and Stalingrad (now Volgograd) . Kaplinskaya's film scripts were made into feature films by many film directors in Russia.\n\nHis 1991 holiday romance. Director: Gennady Dubrovin, Yuri Dmitrievich\n\n1988 A Dangerous Man (based on the story \"boxes and boxes\")\n\n1979 The skin of a polar bear, Odessa Film Studio, USSR, 1979, col., 79 min. triller, film director: Vadim Kostromenko\n\n1975, 142 min, \"Do not give up the queen\" in 1975, 142 min, Drama, film director: Oleg Lentsius\n\n1974 These are stories - a film-performance, drama, comedy. Director: Brovkin, Vyacheslav, Ishimbayevo, Lydia S.\n\n1974 \"The Meeting \" 1st series\n\n1974 \"An Illusory Fact\" 2nd series\n\n1974 \"Not at a Glance\" 3 Series\n\n1973 \"The Engineer\", TV drama, theatrical production of the\" Little Theatre\", Creative Association \"Screen\", the Moscow Stanislavsky Drama Theater, theatrical directors: Vladimir Bailey and Viitaly Ivanov\n\n1969, 'The Valse\" drama, Director: Victor Titov\n\n1967 \"Next to you\", drama. Director: Dubrovin, Yuri Nikolaevich\n\n1962 \"Little Dreamers\"\n\n1962 \"A Mistake\"\n\n1961 \"The Day, which marks 30 years\" BelarusFilm, 89 min. romantical drama, film director: Valentin Vinogradov\n\n\"Spring orders\" 1963\n\n\"Gluhoman\" 1965\n\n\"Duty\" 1964\n\n\"A Pierce for Lovers\" 1965\n\n\"The Best Loved\" [3]\n\n\"Do not buy a cow, if you do not know how to milk her\" 1992 - winner of the International Competition for the best woman's story in 1992, a collection of \"What woman wants\", Moscow, \"Lenore\", \"Amrita\" 1993\n\n\"Boxes, little boxes\" story 1988\n\n\"A Moscow Story\", novel, Moscow, Profizdat 1983 and Messidor Publishing, Paris 1984\n\n\"The Cinema of Moscow\", a novel, Moscow, Profizdat 1991\n\n\nhttp://kounb.kurganobl.ru/cgi-bin/irbis64r_13/cgiirbis_64.exe?\n"}
{"id": "14582040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14582040", "title": "Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence", "text": "Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence\n\nFollow the Rabbit-Proof Fence is an Australian book by Doris Pilkington, published in 1996. Based on a true story, the book is a personal account of an indigenous Australian family's experiences as members of the Stolen Generation – the forced removal of mixed-race children from their families during the early 20th century. It tells the story of three young Aboriginal girls: Molly (the author's mother), Daisy (Molly's half-sister), and Gracie (their cousin), who are forcibly removed from their families at Jigalong and taken to Moore River, but escape from the government settlement in 1931, and then trek over home by following the rabbit-proof fence, a massive pest-exclusion fence which crossed Western Australia from north to south.\n\nThe book was adapted as a film, \"Rabbit-Proof Fence\", in 2002.\n\nDoris Pilkington had spent much of her early life from the age of four at the Moore River Native Settlement in Western Australia, the same facility the book chronicles her mother, aunt's and cousin's escape from as children. After reuniting with her family, Pilkington says she did not talk to her mother much, and she was not aware of her mother's captivity at Moore River nor the story of her escape, until her Aunt Daisy told her the story. Repeating the story at an Aboriginal family history event in Perth, one of the attendees told Pilkington he was aware of the story and that the case was fairly well-documented. He gave her some documents and clippings which formed the factual backbone of the story on which Pilkington based a first draft.\n\nPilkington submitted the draft to a publisher in 1985 but was told it was too much like an academic paper and that she should try her hand at writing fiction. Her first novel, \"Caprice, A Stockman's Daughter\", won the David Unaipon Literary Award and was published in 1990 by the University of Queensland Press. Pilkington then rewrote and filled out \"Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence\" following several years of interviewing her mother and aunt, and it was published in 1996.\n\nMolly, her half-sister Daisy and their cousin Gracie are taken to Moore River for schooling to become more like a white person and to eventually be taken to a (more) rural part of Western Australia. The girls escaped from the Settlement and took the 1,600km walk home.\n\nShortly after the book's publication, the film rights were obtained by scriptwriter Christine Olsen, who wrote the script and was persistent in her pitching of the film to Hollywood-based Australian director Phillip Noyce. Noyce agreed to direct the film, which was released in 2002 and starred Everlyn Sampi as Molly, and British actor Kenneth Branagh as A. O. Neville, the Chief Protector of Aborigines.\n"}
{"id": "15538712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15538712", "title": "Frank Sibley (philosopher)", "text": "Frank Sibley (philosopher)\n\nFrank Noel Sibley (28 February 1923 – 18 February 1996) was a British philosopher who worked mainly in the field of aesthetics. He held the first Chair of Philosophy at Lancaster University. Sibley is best known for his 1959 paper \"Aesthetic Concepts\" (\"Philosophical Review\", 68), and for \"Seeking, Scrutinizing and Seeing\" (\"Mind\", 64, 1954). Both papers (and some others) have been anthologized, \"Aesthetic Concepts\" multiple times. \n\nSibley has been considered an important contributor to Aesthetics in the analytical tradition. His collected papers, including some posthumous, were published by Oxford University Press in 2001 as \"Approach To Aesthetics\", together with a companion volume of critical and evaluative essays on his work.\n\nHe was the uncle of the writer and broadcaster Brian Sibley.\n\nMost of Sibley's work in aesthetics is collected in \"Approach to Aesthetics\". He is especially well known for his attempts to distinguish the domains of aesthetic and non-aesthetic. His 1959 paper \"Aesthetic Concepts\" is often referred as one of the landmarks of 20th century aesthetics in the tradition of analytic philosophy. The paper is rich in themes, but the main line of thought suggests that aesthetic concepts cannot be reduced to non-aesthetic concepts, or sufficiently defined in terms of non-aesthetic concepts. This leads Sibley to think that grasping properties of given items requires the capability to exercise taste or aesthetic sensibility. \n\nTopics and problems relating to taste thus became very important to Sibley's approach, and he returned to them through his career. Also, Sibley did not see Aesthetics as remote from philosophy as whole. This is very clear from his brief programmatic note \"About Taste\", published in 1966 in \"British Journal of Aesthetics\". Here Sibley states the situation thus:\n\"The programme that aestheticians must face is thus a large one, the charting of a huge areas neglected by other philosophers working within their customary bonds. Indeed, far from it's(sic) being true that aesthetics is peripheral to philosophy, aestheticians encounter ranges of concepts wider than and inevitably including of those studied by most other branches of philosophy.\"\n\nBeside aesthetics, Sibley worked on the philosophy of perception and the philosophy of mind. His first published paper was a long review of Gilbert Ryle's Concept of Mind in 1950. Later he contributed another piece on Ryle, \"Ryle and Thinking\", to \"Ryle: Collection of Essays\".\n\nHe wrote two papers on the theory of perception, and some papers on the borderline of that field and aesthetics, one paper on colours, and a little piece on applied philosophy. One posthumous paper deals extensively with a certain distinction made by Peter Geach. Other than these, his work was in aesthetics.\n\n\n\nNick Zangwill's article \"Aesthetic Judgment\" in \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" discusses Sibley's views, and those of his critics.\n\nProf. Jerrold Levinson \"aesthetic concepts\" The Oxford Companion to Philosophy. Oxford University Press 2005. Oxford Reference Online. Oxford University Press. University of Edinburgh. 10 February 2012 <http://www.oxfordreference.com/views/ENTRY.html?subview=Main&entry=t116.e31>\n"}
{"id": "38084330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38084330", "title": "Gray's Pottery", "text": "Gray's Pottery\n\nGray's Pottery, also spelled as Grays Pottery and formally known as A.E. Gray Ltd. was a British pottery company based in Hanley, Staffordshire, later Stoke-upon-Trent, which existed until it was taken over by Portmeirion Pottery in 1960.\n\nThe company was founded by, and named after, Albert Edward Gray (1871-1959). Gray's business began in Stoke-upon-Trent (one of the six towns of the City of Stoke-on-Trent) in 1907 and became a production operation in Mayer Street, Hanley, Stoke-on-Trent by 1912. It returned to Stoke-upon-Trent in 1933 and ceased by 1962. The company, which was noted particularly for the quality of its design in the 1920s and 1930s, took part in every British Industries Fair that was held between 1915 and 1951.\n\nNotable employees of the company include Susie Cooper, who worked for Gray's in the 1920s. She stayed with the company until her 27th birthday in 1929, when she left the company in order to set up her own business.\nSamuel (Clyde) Talbot succeeded Miss Cooper as the company's Art Director around 1930, remaining until 1959. He gained national recognition on the National Register of Industrial Art Designers alongside other notable ceramic designers such as Reco Capey, Michael Cardew, Keith Murray, Eric Ravillious and Victor Skellern as well as Susie Cooper.\n\n"}
{"id": "1241765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1241765", "title": "Henry Crabb Robinson", "text": "Henry Crabb Robinson\n\nHenry Crabb Robinson (1775–1867) was an English lawyer known as a diarist.\n\nRobinson was born in Bury St. Edmunds, England. He was youngest son of a tanner who died in 1781; Habakkuk Crabb was his uncle. After education at small private schools, he was articled in 1790 to an attorney in Colchester. At Colchester he heard John Wesley preach one of his last sermons. In 1796 he entered the office of a solicitor in Chancery Lane, London; but in 1798 a relative died, leaving Robinson a sum yielding a considerable yearly income. Proud of his independence and eager for travel, he went abroad in 1800. Between 1800 and 1805 he studied at various places in Germany, meeting men of letters there, including Goethe, Schiller, Johann Gottfried Herder and Christoph Martin Wieland. He then became correspondent for \"The Times\" in Altona in 1807. Later on he was sent to Galicia, in Spain, as a war correspondent in the Peninsular War.\n\nOn his return to London in 1809, Robinson decided to quit journalism and studied for the Bar, to which he was called in 1813, and became leader of the Eastern Circuit. Fifteen years later he retired, and by virtue of his conversation and qualities, became a leader in society. He was one of the founders of the London University (now University College London) and travelled several times to Italy, as many of his contemporaries did. Among those whom he befriended in Rome in 1829 was the novelist Sarah Burney.\n\nRobinson died unmarried, aged 91. He was buried in a vault in Highgate Cemetery alongside his friend Edwin Wilkins Field. A bust of Crabb Robinson was made, and a portrait by Edward Armitage.\n\nRobinson's \"Diary, Reminiscences and Correspondence\" was published in 1869. It contains reminiscences of central figures of the English romantic movement: including Coleridge, Charles Lamb, William Blake, William Wordsworth, and others. They are documents on the daily lives of London writers, artists, political figures and socialites. In his essay on Blake, Swinburne says, \"Of all the records of these his latter years, the most valuable, perhaps, are those furnished by Mr. Crabb Robinson, whose cautious and vivid transcription of Blake's actual speech is worth more than much vague remark, or than any commentary now possible to give.\"\nIn 1829 Robinson was made a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries (F.S.A.), and contributed a paper to \"Archæologia\" entitled \"The Etymology of the Mass\".\n\nHis diaries were bequeathed to Dr Williams's Library, because Robinson had been a member of the Essex Street Chapel, the first avowedly Unitarian congregation in England.\n\n<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "8612425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8612425", "title": "Hipster (1940s subculture)", "text": "Hipster (1940s subculture)\n\nHipster or hepcat, as used in the 1940s, referred to aficionados of jazz, in particular bebop, which became popular in the early 1940s. The hipster adopted the lifestyle of the jazz musician, including some or all of the following: dress, slang, use of cannabis and other drugs, relaxed attitude, sarcastic humor, self-imposed poverty, and relaxed sexual codes.\n\nThe words \"hep\" and \"hip\" are of uncertain origin, with numerous competing theories being proposed. In the early days of jazz, musicians were using the \"hep\" variant to describe anybody who was \"in the know\" about an emerging culture, mostly black, which revolved around jazz. They and their fans were known as \"hepcats\". By the late 1930s, with the rise of swing, \"hip\" rose in popularity among jazz musicians, to replace \"hep\". Clarinetist Artie Shaw described singer Bing Crosby as \"the first hip white person born in the United States.\"\n\nIn 1939, the word \"hepster\" was used by Cab Calloway in the title of his \"Hepster's Dictionary\", which defines \"hep cat\" as \"a guy who knows all the answers, understands jive\". In 1944, pianist Harry Gibson modified this to \"hipster\" in his short glossary \"For Characters Who Don't Dig Jive Talk\", published in 1944 with the album \"Boogie Woogie In Blue\", featuring the self-titled hit \"Handsome Harry the Hipster\". The entry for \"hipsters\" defined them as \"characters who like hot jazz.\"\n\nHipsters were more interested in bebop and \"hot\" jazz than they were in swing, which by the late 1940s was becoming old-fashioned and watered down by \"squares\" like Lawrence Welk, Guy Lombardo and Robert Coates. In the 1940s, white youth began to frequent African-American communities for their music and dance. These first youths diverged from the mainstream due to their new philosophies of racial diversity and their exploratory sexual nature and drug habits. The drug of choice was marijuana, many hipster slang terms were dedicated to the substance.\n\nIn his book \"Jazz: A History\" (1977), Frank Tirro defines the 1940s hipster:\n\nTo the hipster, Bird was a living justification of their philosophy. The hipster is an underground man. He is to the Second World War what the dadaist was to the first. He is amoral, anarchistic, gentle, and overcivilized to the point of decadence. He is always ten steps ahead of the game because of his awareness, an example of which might be meeting a girl and rejecting her, because he knows they will date, hold hands, kiss, neck, pet, fornicate, perhaps marry, divorce—so why start the whole thing? He knows the hypocrisy of bureaucracy, the hatred implicit in religions—so what values are left for him?—except to go through life avoiding pain, keep his emotions in check, and after that, \"be cool,\" and look for kicks. He is looking for something that transcends all this bullshit and finds it in jazz.\n\nMarty Jezer, in \"The Dark Ages: Life in the United States 1945–1960\" (1999), provides another definition:\n\nThe new philosophy of racial role reversal was transcribed by many popular hipster authors of the time. Norman Mailer's 1957 pamphlet, entitled \"The White Negro\", has become the paradigmatic example of hipster ideology. Mailer describes hipsters as individuals \"with a middle-class background (who) attempt to put down their whiteness and adopt what they believe is the carefree, spontaneous, cool lifestyle of Negro hipsters: their manner of speaking and language, their use of milder narcotics, their appreciation of jazz and the blues, and their supposed concern with the good orgasm.\" In a nod to Mailer's discussion of hipsterism, the United States' Cold War deployments of African American culture and personalities for the purposes of public diplomacy has been discussed as \"hipster diplomacy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3190391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3190391", "title": "Hit Man: A Technical Manual for Independent Contractors", "text": "Hit Man: A Technical Manual for Independent Contractors\n\nHit Man: A Technical Manual for Independent Contractors is a book written under the pseudonym Rex Feral and published by Paladin Press in 1983. Paladin Press owner Peder Lund claimed, in an interview with \"60 Minutes\", that the book started life as a detailed crime novel written by a Florida housewife, and that the format was later changed to appeal to Paladin's reader base accustomed to the publisher's non-fiction books on military, survivalist, weapons and similar topics. The book portrays itself as a how-to manual on starting a career as a hit man, fulfilling contracts. However, after a number of lawsuits claiming that the book was used as a handbook in several murders, the publication of the book was stopped. It marked \"the first time in American publishing history that a publisher has been held liable for a crime committed by a reader.\"\n\nPaladin Press published the book under the author's pseudonym \"Rex Feral\" in 1983. The book is written as if by an actual experienced assassin, as a how-to manual on contract killing. It was said to be written by a divorced mother-of-two who simply fabricated much of the material it contains based on mystery novels and movies. The book goes on at length about studying \"the mark\", learning the mark's movements and routine, and silently moving in for the profitable kill, and offers advice on weapon selection and techniques.\n\nOn March 3, 1992, a triple murder was committed in Montgomery County, Maryland, by a man who claimed to have used the book as his guide. James Perry, who had been imprisoned for a violent crime, was caught, convicted, and sentenced three times to death. He had been hired by Lawrence Horn, who sought to receive the proceeds of a trust fund that resulted from his ex-wife's suing a hospital over injuries to their son. \n\nThe families of Mildred Horn, her son Trevor, and her nurse Janice Saunders sued, claiming Paladin Press \"aided and abetted\" the murder. The suit, \"Rice v Paladin Enterprises\", claimed that Paladin Press had a share of responsibility in the murders by virtue of their publication of a book that, by Paladin's own admission, could be used by criminals and would-be criminals in the solicitation, planning, and commission of murder for hire. In November 1997, a U.S. appeals court ruled 3–0 that \"Hit Man\" was not protected by the free speech/free press clause of the First Amendment and thus Paladin Enterprises could be held liable for a triple murder committed by one of its readers. \n\nOn May 21, 1999, Paladin Press' insurance company agreed to settle the case out-of-court, against the wishes of Paladin Press themselves, who were confident that they would prevail in court on First Amendment grounds; however, Paladin’s insurance company balked at going to court again, figuring expenses for a lengthy trial in federal court, plus the posting of a bond in case they lost and appealed, would have cost much more than the settlement. Under this settlement, Paladin's insurance policy paid several million dollars to the families of those killed by the murderer, while also agreeing to destroy the remaining 700 copies of the book in their possession and surrendering any rights they had to publish and reproduce the work. Jon Ford, Paladin’s editorial director, called the settlement \"economic censorship.\"\n\nThe book was also cited as a source of information in a similar crime committed by Robert Vaughn Jones in 1999. In 2000, Paladin Press was sued again as a result of \"Hit Man\". The lawsuit was result of the 1998 attempted murder of Bobby Joe Wilson by her ex-husband, Robert Leslie Goggin, who allegedly hired Robert Jones to kill her in order to get money from her life insurance policy. In court, Jones testified that Goggin recruited him to kill Wilson. Jones said he then purchased Hit Man. In her lawsuit, Wilson outlined two dozen points of advice from the book that Jones followed to the letter in planning to kill her. The suit was eventually settled out of court in 2002.\n\nAfter the legal cases, Paladin no longer published the book, and allowed the remaining undestroyed circulating copies to sell out. Copies exist on the Internet (notably IRC), often accompanied by the spurious claim that the book is now in the public domain. Paladin Press claims that the rights are still held by the author. It can also be purchased used from independent sellers. It is believed that 13,000 copies were sold, although \"Reason Magazine\" estimates there are 20,000 copies of the book in existence.\n\nIn 1999, a book called \"Deliberate Intent: a lawyer tells the true story of murder by the book\", was released by lawyer, author, and First Amendment scholar, Rod Smolla. Deliberate Intent described his involvement in the notorious \"Hit Man\" case, where Smolla successfully represented the families of three murder victims in the court case against Paladin Press. The book was later made into a television movie and actor Timothy Hutton portrayed Smolla.\n\nOn August 6, 2000, a television film by Fox and the FX Cable Network called \"Deliberate Intent\" was aired in the U.S. based directly on the book and the case. It starred Timothy Hutton, Ron Rifkin, Clark Johnson, Penny Johnson Jerald, Cliff DeYoung, James McDaniel, and Yanna McIntosh. Peder Lund, Paladin Press' owner, was played by Kenneth Welsh. It was directed by Andy Wolk, produced by Howard Braunstein and Michael Jaffe, with music by Harald Kloser. In the drama, which clearly parallels the Horn case,The legal team then proceeds to tie the book to the case of a Motown recording engineer (McDaniel) who gets a hitman to murder his ex-wife, their paraplegic daughter and the son’s nurse. By proving that the hired killer followed 22 of the 26 steps shown in Paladin’s book, they’re able to bring home the point that freedom of speech laws should not protect material that is produced for the purpose of aiding and abetting murder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39557766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39557766", "title": "Ilchi mosque", "text": "Ilchi mosque\n\nIlchi mosque () is a historical mosque in Isfahan, Iran. The founder of this small and simple mosque was \"Saheb Soltan Beigom\", the daughter of a courtier in the Shah Suleiman's court. The mosque was built in 1686 under the supervision of Mohammad Ali ben Ostad ALibeyk.\n\n"}
{"id": "48385691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48385691", "title": "Jean Perret", "text": "Jean Perret\n\nJean Perret Montres SA is a Swiss brand of watchmakers founded in Switzerland in 1893.\n\nThe company was founded by the Geneva-born Designer, Jean Perret in Geneva, Switzerland. His successors had a long history in the watch industry dating back to 1893. In the beginning of the 21st century Jean Perret Montres SA was taken over by a Saudi Arabian investor. Today the company is held privately by a Swiss family.\n\nThe current collection consists of three main lines: the Slim Line, the Doublette, and the Cool Line. Jean Perret watches vary in pricing according to model and materials but range from about US$500 to about US$2,500. Models that include baguette diamonds can cost considerably more.\n\nList of watch manufactures\n\n"}
{"id": "16082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16082", "title": "Jericho", "text": "Jericho\n\nJericho (; '; ' ) is a city in the Palestinian Territories and is located near the Jordan River in the West Bank. It is the administrative seat of the Jericho Governorate, and is governed by the Fatah faction of the Palestinian National Authority. In 2007, it had a population of 18,346. The city was occupied by Jordan from 1949 to 1967, and has been held under Israeli occupation since 1967; administrative control was handed over to the Palestinian Authority in 1994. It is believed to be one of the oldest inhabited cities in the world and the city with the oldest known protective wall in the world. It was thought to have the oldest stone tower in the world as well, but excavations at Tell Qaramel in Syria have discovered stone towers that are even older.\n\nArchaeologists have unearthed the remains of more than 20 successive settlements in Jericho, the first of which dates back 11,000 years (9000 BC), almost to the very beginning of the Holocene epoch of the Earth's history.\n\nCopious springs in and around the city have attracted human habitation for thousands of years. Jericho is described in the Hebrew Bible as the \"City of Palm Trees\".\n\nJericho's name in Hebrew, , is generally thought to derive from the Canaanite word \"reaẖ\" (\"fragrant\"), but other theories hold that it originates in the Canaanite word for \"moon\" (\"Yareaẖ\") or the name of the lunar deity Yarikh for whom the city was an early centre of worship.\n\nJericho's Arabic name, , means \"fragrant\" and also has its roots in Canaanite \"Reaẖ\".\n\nThe first excavations of the site were made by Charles Warren in 1868. Ernst Sellin and Carl Watzinger excavated Tell es-Sultan and Tulul Abu el-'Alayiq between 1907 and 1909, and in 1911, and John Garstang excavated between 1930 and 1936. Extensive investigations using more modern techniques were made by Kathleen Kenyon between 1952 and 1958. Lorenzo Nigro and Nicolò Marchetti conducted excavations in 1997–2000. Since 2009 the Italian-Palestinian archaeological project of excavation and restoration was resumed by Rome \"La Sapienza\" University and Palestinian MOTA-DACH under the direction of Lorenzo Nigro and Hamdan Taha, and Jehad Yasine since 2015. The Italian-Palestinian Expedition carried out 13 seasons in 20 years (1997–2017), with some major discoveries, like Tower A1 in the Middle Bronze Age southern Lower Town and Palace G on the eastern flanks of the Spring Hill overlooking the Spring of 'Ain es-Sultan dating from Early Bronze III.\n\nThe earliest settlement was located at the present-day Tell es-Sultan (or Sultan's Hill), a couple of kilometers from the current city. In both Arabic and Hebrew, \"tell\" means \"mound\" – consecutive layers of habitation built up a mound over time, as is common for ancient settlements in the Middle East and Anatolia. Jericho is the type site for the Pre-Pottery Neolithic A (PPNA) and Pre-Pottery Neolithic B (PPNB) periods.\n\nEpipaleolithic construction at the site appears to predate the invention of agriculture, with the construction of Natufian culture structures beginning earlier than 9000 BC, the beginning of the Holocene epoch in geologic history.\n\nJericho has evidence of settlement dating back to 10,000 BC. During the Younger Dryas period of cold and drought, permanent habitation of any one location was impossible. However, the Ein es-Sultan spring at what would become Jericho was a popular camping ground for Natufian hunter-gatherer groups, who left a scattering of crescent-shaped microlith tools behind them. Around 9600 BC, the droughts and cold of the Younger Dryas stadial had come to an end, making it possible for Natufian groups to extend the duration of their stay, eventually leading to year-round habitation and permanent settlement.\n\nThe first permanent settlement on the site of Jericho developed near the Ein es-Sultan spring between 9,500 and 9000 BC. As the world warmed up, a new culture based on agriculture and sedentary dwelling emerged, which archaeologists have termed \"Pre-Pottery Neolithic A\" (abbreviated as PPNA). Its cultures lacked pottery, but featured the following:\n\nAt Jericho, circular dwellings were built of clay and straw bricks left to dry in the sun, which were plastered together with a mud mortar. Each house measured about across, and was roofed with mud-smeared brush. Hearths were located within and outside the homes.\n\nBy about 9400 BC, the town had grown to more than 70 modest dwellings.\n\nThe Pre-Sultan\nis sometimes called Sultanian. The site is a settlement surrounded by a massive stone wall over high and wide at the base (see Wall of Jericho), inside of which stood a stone tower (see Tower of Jericho), over high, containing an internal staircase with 22 stone steps and placed in the centre of the west side of the tell. This tower and the even older ones excavated at Tell Qaramel in Syria are the oldest ever to be discovered. The wall may have served as a defence against flood-water, with the tower used for ceremonial purposes. The wall and tower were built during the Pre-Pottery Neolithic A (PPNA) period around 8000 BCE. For the tower, carbon dates published in 1981 and 1983 indicate that it was built around 8300 BC and stayed in use until c. 7800 BC. The wall and tower would have taken a hundred men more than a hundred days to construct, thus suggesting some kind of social organization. The town contained round mud-brick houses, yet no street planning. The identity and number of the inhabitants of Jericho during the PPNA period is still under debate, with estimates going as high as 2,000–3,000, and as low as 200–300. It is known that this population had domesticated emmer wheat, barley and pulses and hunted wild animals.\n\nThe following are Pre-Pottery Neolithic B cultural features, for the period from 7220 to 5850 BC (though carbon-14-dates are few and early):\n\nAfter a few centuries, the first settlement was abandoned. After the PPNA settlement phase, there was a settlement hiatus of several centuries, then the PPNB settlement was founded on the eroded surface of the tell. This second settlement, established in 6800 BC, perhaps represents the work of an invading people who absorbed the original inhabitants into their dominant culture. Artifacts dating from this period include ten plastered human skulls, painted so as to reconstitute the individuals' features. These represent either teraphim or the first example of portraiture in art history, and it is thought that they were kept in people's homes while the bodies were buried.\n\nThe architecture consisted of rectilinear buildings made of mudbricks on stone foundations. The mudbricks were loaf-shaped with deep thumb prints to facilitate bonding. No building has been excavated in its entirety. Normally, several rooms cluster around a central courtyard. There is one big room ( and ) with internal divisions; the rest are small, presumably used for storage. The rooms have red or pinkish terrazzo-floors made of lime. Some impressions of mats made of reeds or rushes have been preserved. The courtyards have clay floors.\n\nKathleen Kenyon interpreted one building as a shrine. It contained a niche in the wall. A chipped pillar of volcanic stone that was found nearby might have fitted into this niche.\n\nThe dead were buried under the floors or in the rubble fill of abandoned buildings. There are several collective burials. Not all the skeletons are completely articulated, which may point to a time of exposure before burial. A skull cache contained seven skulls. The jaws were removed and the faces covered with plaster; cowries were used as eyes. A total of ten skulls were found. Modelled skulls were found in Tell Ramad and Beisamoun as well.\n\nOther finds included flints, such as arrowheads (tanged or side-notched), finely denticulated sickle-blades, burins, scrapers, a few tranchet axes, obsidian, and green obsidian from an unknown source. There were also querns, hammerstones, and a few ground-stone axes made of greenstone. Other items discovered included dishes and bowls carved from soft limestone, spindle whorls made of stone and possible loom weights, spatulae and drills, stylised anthropomorphic plaster figures, almost life-size, anthropomorphic and theriomorphic clay figurines, as well as shell and malachite beads.\n\nIn the late 4th millennium BC, Jericho was occupied during Neolithic 2 and the general character of the remains on the site link it culturally with Neolithic 2 (or PPNB) sites in the West Syrian and Middle Euphrates groups. This link is established by the presence of rectilinear mud-brick buildings and plaster floors that are characteristic of the age.\n\nA succession of settlements followed from 4500 BC onward.\n\nIn the Early Bronze IIIA (c. 2700 – 2500/2450 BC; Sultan IIIC1), the settlement reached its largest extent around 2600 BC.\n\nDuring Early Bronze IIIB (c. 2500/2450–2350 BC; Sultan IIIC2) there was a Palace G on Spring Hill and city walls.\n\nJericho was continually occupied into the Middle Bronze Age; it was destroyed in the Late Bronze Age, after which it no longer served as an urban centre. The city was surrounded by extensive defensive walls strengthened with rectangular towers, and possessed an extensive cemetery with vertical shaft-tombs and underground burial chambers; the elaborate funeral offerings in some of these may reflect the emergence of local kings.\n\nDuring the Middle Bronze Age, Jericho was a small prominent city of the Canaan region, reaching its greatest Bronze Age extent in the period from 1700 to 1550 BC. It seems to have reflected the greater urbanization in the area at that time, and has been linked to the rise of the Maryannu, a class of chariot-using aristocrats linked to the rise of the Mitannite state to the north. Kathleen Kenyon reported \"the Middle Bronze Age is perhaps the most prosperous in the whole history of Kna'an. ... The defenses ... belong to a fairly advanced date in that period\" and there was \"a massive stone revetment ... part of a complex system\" of defenses. Bronze Age Jericho fell in the 16th century at the end of the Middle Bronze Age, the calibrated carbon remains from its City-IV destruction layer dating to 1617–1530 BC. Notably this carbon dating 1573 BC confirmed the accuracy of the stratigraphical dating 1550 by Kenyon.\n\nThere was evidence of a small settlement in the Late Bronze Age ( 1400s BC) on the site, but erosion and destruction from previous excavations have erased significant parts of this layer.\n\nTell es-Sultan remained unoccupied from the end of the 15th to the 10th–9th centuries BC, when the city was rebuilt. Of this new city not much more remains than a four-room house on the eastern slope. By the 7th century, Jericho had become an extensive town, but this settlement was destroyed in the Babylonian conquest of Judah in the late 6th century.\n\nAfter the destruction of the Judahite city by the Babylonians in the late 6th century, whatever was rebuilt in the Persian period as part of the Restoration after the Babylonian captivity, left only very few remains. The tell was abandoned as a place of settlement not long after this period. During the Persian through Hellenistic periods, there is little in terms of occupation attested throughout the region.\n\nJericho went from being an administrative centre of Yehud Medinata (\"the Province of Judah\") under Persian rule to serving as the private estate of Alexander the Great between 336 and 323 BC after his conquest of the region. In the middle of the 2nd century BC Jericho was under Hellenistic rule of the Seleucid Empire, when the Syrian General Bacchides built a number of forts to strengthen the defences of the area around Jericho against the revolt by the Macabees. One of these forts, built at the entrance to Wadi Qelt, was later refortified by Herod the Great, who named it \"Kypros\" after his mother.\n\nAfter the abandonment of the Tell es-Sultan location, the new Jericho of the Late Hellenistic or Hasmonean and Early Roman or Herodian periods, was established as a garden city in the vicinity of the royal estate at Tulul Abu el-'Alayiq and expanded greatly thanks to the intensive exploitation of the springs of the area. The new site consists of a group of low mounds on both banks of Wadi Qelt. The Hasmoneans were a dynasty descending from a priestly group (kohanim) from the tribe of Levi, who ruled over Judea following the success of the Maccabean Revolt until Roman influence over the region brought Herod to claim the Hasmonean throne.\n\nThe rock-cut tombs of a Herodian- and Hasmonean-era cemetery lie in the lowest part of the cliffs between Nuseib al-Aweishireh and Jabal Quruntul in Jericho and were used between 100 BCE and 68 CE.\n\nHerod had to lease back the royal estate at Jericho from Cleopatra, after Mark Antony had given it to her as a gift. After their joint suicide in 30 BC, Octavian assumed control of the Roman Empire and granted Herod absolute rule over Jericho, as part of the new Herodian domain. Herod's rule oversaw the construction of a hippodrome-theatre (\"Tell es-Samrat\") to entertain his guests and new aqueducts to irrigate the area below the cliffs and reach his winter palaces built at the site of \"Tulul Abu el-Alaiq\" (also written \"'Alayiq\"). In 2008 the Israel Exploration Society published an illustrated volume of Herod's third Jericho palace.\n\nThe dramatic murder of Aristobulus III in a swimming pool at the winter palaces near Jericho, as described by the Roman Jewish historian Josephus, took place during a banquet organized by Herod's Hasmonean mother-in-law. After the construction of the palaces, the city had functioned not only as an agricultural center and as a crossroad, but also as a winter resort for Jerusalem's aristocracy.\n\nHerod was succeeded in Judea by his son, Herod Archelaus, who built a village in his name not far to the north, Archelaïs (modern Khirbet al-Beiyudat), to house workers for his date plantation.\n\nFirst-century Jericho is described in Strabo's \"Geography\" as follows:\n\nThe Christian Gospels state that Jesus of Nazareth passed through Jericho where he healed blind beggars (), and inspired a local chief tax-collector named Zacchaeus to repent of his dishonest practices (). The road between Jerusalem and Jericho is the setting for the Parable of the Good Samaritan.\n\nJohn Wesley, in his New Testament Notes on this section of Luke's Gospel, claimed that \"about twelve thousand priests and Levites dwelt there, who all attended the service of the temple\".\n\nSmith's \"Bible Names Dictionary\" suggests that on the arrival of Jesus and his entourage, \"Jericho was once more 'a city of palms' when our Lord visited it. Here he restored sight to the blind (Matthew 20:30; Mark 10:46; Luke 18:35). Here the descendant of Rahab did not disdain the hospitality of Zaccaeus the publican. Finally, between Jerusalem and Jericho was laid the scene of his story of the good Samaritan.\"\n\nAfter the fall of Jerusalem to Vespasian's armies in the Great Revolt of Judea in 70 AD, Jericho declined rapidly, and by 100 AD it was but a small Roman garrison town. A fort was built there in 130 and played a role in putting down the Bar Kochba revolt in 133.\n\nAccounts of Jericho by a Christian pilgrim are given in 333. Shortly thereafter the built-up area of the town was abandoned and a Byzantine Jericho, \"Ericha\", was built 1600 metres (1 mi) to the east, on which the modern town is centered. Christianity took hold in the city during the Byzantine era and the area was heavily populated. A number of monasteries and churches were built, including St George of Koziba in 340 AD and a domed church dedicated to Saint Eliseus. At least two synagogues were also built in the 6th century AD. The monasteries were abandoned after the Persian invasion of 614.\n\nThe Jericho Synagogue in the Royal Maccabean winter palace at Jericho dates from 70–50 BC.\n\nA synagogue dating to the late 6th or early 7th century AD was discovered in Jericho in 1936, and was named Shalom Al Yisrael Synagogue, or \"peace unto Israel\", after the central Hebrew motto in its mosaic floor. It was controlled by Israel after the Six Day War, but after the handover to Palestinian Authority control per the Oslo Accords, it has been a source of conflict. On the night of 12 October 2000, the synagogue was vandalized by Palestinians who burned holy books and relics and damaged the mosaic.\n\nThe Na'aran synagogue, another Byzantine era construction, was discovered on the northern outskirts of Jericho in 1918. While less is known of it than Shalom Al Yisrael, it has a larger mosaic and is in similar condition.\n\nJericho, by then named \"Ariha\" in Arabic variation, became part of Jund Filastin (\"Military District of Palestine\"), part of the larger province of Bilad al-Sham. The Arab Muslim historian Musa b. 'Uqba (died 758) recorded that caliph Umar ibn al-Khattab exiled the Jews and Christians of Khaybar to Jericho (and Tayma).\n\nBy 659, that district had come under the control of Mu'awiya, founder of the Umayyad dynasty. That year, an earthquake destroyed Jericho. A decade later, the pilgrim Arculf visited Jericho and found it in ruins, all its \"miserable Canaanite\" inhabitants now dispersed in shanty towns around the Dead Sea shore.\n\nA palatial complex long attributed to the tenth Umayyad caliph, Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik (r. 724–743) and thus known as Hisham's Palace, is located at Khirbet al-Mafjar, about 1.5 kilometres (1 mi) north of Tell es-Sultan. This \"desert castle\" or \"qasr\" was more likely built by Caliph Walid ibn Yazid (r. 743–744), who was assassinated before he could complete the construction. The remains of two mosques, a courtyard, mosaics, and other items can still be seen \"in situ\" today. The unfinished structure was largely destroyed in an earthquake in 747.\n\nUmayyad rule ended in 750 and was followed by the Arab caliphates of the Abbasid and Fatimid dynasties. Irrigated agriculture was developed under Islamic rule, reaffirming Jericho's reputation as a fertile \"City of the Palms\". Al-Maqdisi, the Arab geographer, wrote in 985 that \"the water of Jericho is held to be the highest and best in all Islam. Bananas are plentiful, also dates and flowers of fragrant odor\". Jericho is also referred to by him as one of the principal cities of Jund Filastin.\n\nThe city flourished until 1071 with the invasion of the Seljuk Turks, followed by the upheavals of the Crusades.\n\nIn 1179, the Crusaders rebuilt the Monastery of St. George of Koziba, at its original site 10 kilometres (6 mi) from the center of town. They also built another two churches and a monastery dedicated to John the Baptist, and are credited with introducing sugarcane production to the city. The site of Tawahin es-Sukkar (lit. \"sugar mills\") holds remains of a Crusader sugar production facility. In 1187, the Crusaders were evicted by the Ayyubid forces of Saladin after their victory in the Battle of Hattin, and the town slowly went into decline.\n\nIn 1226, Arab geographer Yaqut al-Hamawi said of Jericho, \"it has many palm trees, also sugarcane in quantities, and bananas. The best of all the sugar in the \"Ghaur\" land is made here.\" In the 14th century, Abu al-Fida writes there are sulfur mines in Jericho, \"the only ones in Palestine\".\n\nJericho was incorporated into the Ottoman Empire in 1517 with all of Palestine, and in 1545 a revenue of 19,000 Akçe was recorded, destined for the new Waqf for the Haseki Sultan Imaret of Jerusalem. The villagers processed indigo as one source of revenue, using a cauldron specifically for this purpose that was loaned to them by the Ottoman authorities in Jerusalem. Later that century, the Jericho revenues no longer went to the Haseki Sultan Imaret.\n\nIn 1596 Jericho appeared in the tax registers under the name of \"Riha\", being in the \"nahiya\" of Al-Quds in the \"liwa\" of Al-Quds. It had a population of 51 household, all Muslims. They paid a fixed tax-rate of 33,3% on agricultural products, including wheat, barley, summer crops, vineyards and fruit trees, goats and beehives, water buffaloes, in addition to occasional revenues; a total of 40,000 Akçe. All of the revenue still went to a Waqf.\n\nThe French traveler Laurent d'Arvieux described the city in 1659 as \"now desolate, and consists only of about fifty poor houses, in bad condition ... The plain around is extremely fertile; the soil is middling fat; but it is watered by several rivulets, which flow into the Jordan. Notwithstanding these advantages only the gardens adjacent to the town are cultivated.\"\n\nIn the 19th century, European scholars, archaeologists and missionaries visited often. At the time it was an oasis in a poor state, similar to other regions in the plains and deserts. Edward Robinson (1838) reported 50 families, which were about 200 people, Titus Tobler (1854) reported some 30 poor huts, whose residents paid a total of 3611 Kuruş in tax. Abraham Samuel Hershberg also reported some 30 poor huts and 300 residents. At that time, Jericho was the residence of the region's Turkish governor. The main water sources for the village were a spring called \"Ein al-Sultan\" in Arabic and \"Elisha Spring\" in Hebrew, and springs in Wadi Qelt.\n\nAn Ottoman village list from around 1870 showed that \"Riha\", Jericho, had 36 houses and a population of 105, though the population count included men, only.\n\nThe first excavation at Tell es-Sultan was carried out in 1867, and the monasteries of St. George of Koziba and John the Baptist were refounded and completed in 1901 and 1904, respectively.\n\nDuring World War II The British built fortresses in Jericho with the help of the Jewish company Solel Boneh, and bridges were rigged with explosives in preparation for a possible invasion by German allied forces. After the collapse of the Ottoman Empire at the end of World War I, Jericho came under the rule of the Mandatory Palestine.\n\nAccording to the 1922 census of Palestine, Jericho had 1,029 inhabitants, consisting of 931 Muslims, 6 Jews and 92 Christians; where the Christians were 45 Orthodox, 12 Roman Catholics, 13 Greek Catholics (Melchites), 6 Syrian Catholic, 11 Armenians, 4 Copts and 1 Church of England.\n\nIn 1927, an earthquake struck and affected Jericho and other cities. Around 300 people died, but by the 1931 census the population had increased to 1,693 inhabitants, in 347 houses.\n\nIn the 1945 statistics, the Jericho's population was 3,010; 2,570 Muslims, 170 Jews, 260 Christians and 10 classified as \"other\", and it had jurisdiction over 37,481 dunams of land. Of this, 948 dunams were used for citrus and bananas, 5,873 dunams were for plantations and irrigable land, 9,141 for cereals, while a total of 38 dunams were urban, built-up areas.\n\nJericho came under Jordanian control after the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. The Jericho Conference, organized by King Abdullah and attended by over 2,000 Palestinian delegates in 1948 proclaimed \"His Majesty Abdullah as King of all Palestine\" and called for \"the unification of Palestine and Transjordan as a step toward full Arab unity\". In mid-1950, Jordan formally annexed the West Bank and Jericho residents, like other residents of West Bank localities became Jordanian citizens.\n\nIn 1961, the population of Jericho was 10,166, of whom 935 were Christian, the rest Muslim.\n\nJericho has been occupied by Israel since the Six-Day War of 1967 along with the rest of the West Bank. It was the first city handed over to Palestinian Authority control in accordance with the Oslo Accords. The limited Palestinian self-rule of Jericho was agreed on in the Gaza–Jericho Agreement of 4 May 1994. Part of the agreement was a \"Protocol on Economic Relations\", signed on 29 April 1994. The city is in an enclave of the Jordan Valley that is in Area A of the West Bank, while the surrounding area is designated as being in Area C under full Israeli military control. Four roadblocks encircle the enclave, restricting Jericho's Palestinian population's movement through the West Bank.\n\nIn response to the 2001 Second Intifada and suicide bombings, Jericho was re-occupied by Israeli troops. A deep trench was built around a large part of the city to control Palestinian traffic to and from Jericho.\n\nOn 14 March 2006, the Israel Defense Forces launched Operation Bringing Home the Goods, raiding a Jericho prison to capture the PFLP general secretary, Ahmad Sa'adat, and five other prisoners, all of whom had been charged with assassinating the Israeli tourist minister Rehavam Zeevi in 2001.\n\nAfter Hamas assaulted a neighborhood in Gaza mostly populated by the Fatah-aligned Hilles clan, in response to their attack that killed six Hamas members, the Hilles clan was relocated to Jericho on 4 August 2008.\n\nIn 2009, Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad and U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs David Johnson inaugurated the Presidential Guard Training Center in Jericho, a $9.1 million training facility for Palestinian Authority security forces built with U.S. funding.\n\nThe city's current mayor is Hassan Saleh, a former lawyer.\n\nJericho is located below sea level in an oasis in Wadi Qelt in the Jordan Valley, which makes it the lowest city in the world. The nearby spring of \"Ein es-Sultan\" produces 3.8 m (1,000 gallons) of water per minute, irrigating some through multiple channels and feeding into the Jordan River, away. Annual rainfall is , mostly concentrated in the winter months and into early spring. The average temperature is in January and in July.\n\nAccording to the Köppen climate classification, Jericho has a hot desert climate (\"BWh\"). Rich alluvial soil and abundant spring water have made Jericho an attractive place for settlement.\n\nIn the first census carried out by the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS), in 1997, Jericho's population was 14,674. Palestinian refugees constituted a significant 43.6% of the residents or 6,393 people. The gender make-up of the city was 51% male and 49% female. Jericho has a young population, with nearly half (49.2%) of the inhabitants being under the age of 20. People between the ages of 20 and 44 made up 36.2% of the population, 10.7% between the ages of 45 and 64, and 3.6% were over the age of 64. In the 2007 census by the PCBS, Jericho had a population of 18,346.\n\nDemographics have varied widely depending on the dominant ethnic group and rule in the region over the past three thousand years. In a 1945 land and population survey by Sami Hadawi, 3,010 inhabitants is the figure given for Jericho, of which 94% (2840) were Arab and 6% (170) were Jews.\nToday, the overwhelming majority of the population is Muslim. The Christian community makes up around 1% of the population. A large community of black Palestinians is present in Jericho.\n\nIn 1994, Israel and the Palestinians signed an economic accord that enabled Palestinians in Jericho to open banks, collect taxes and engage in export and import in preparation for self-rule.\n\nIn 2010, Jericho, with its proximity to the Dead Sea, was declared the most popular destination among Palestinian tourists.\n\nIn 1998, a $150 million casino-hotel was built in Jericho with the backing of Yasser Arafat. The casino is now closed, though the hotel on the premises is open for guests.\n\nChristian tourism is one of Jericho's primary sources of income. There are several major Christian pilgrimage sites in and around Jericho.\n\nThe archaeological sites in and near Jericho have a high potential for attracting tourists. These are dealt with in detail in the History and archaeology paragraph:\n\nAgriculture is another source of income, with banana groves ringing the city.\n\nThe Jericho Agro-Industrial Park is a public-private enterprise being developed in the Jericho area. Agricultural processing companies are being offered financial concessions to lease plots of land in the park in a bid to boost Jericho's economy.\n\nIn 1925, Christian friars opened a school for 100 pupils that became the Terra Santa School. The city has 22 state schools and a number of private schools.\n\nIn April 2010, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) held a groundbreaking ceremony for the renovation of the Jericho Governmental Hospital. USAID is providing $2.5 million in funding for this project.\n\nThe sports team Hilal Areeha plays association football in the West Bank First Division. They play home games in the 15,000 spectator Jericho International Stadium.\n\nJericho is twinned with:\n\nListed alphabetically by first word, disregarding the article.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19245288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19245288", "title": "Kazimierz Ostrowski Award", "text": "Kazimierz Ostrowski Award\n\nThe Kazimierz Ostrowski Award is one of the most important awards given to Polish artists and designers in recognition of their excellence. Founded in 2002, it is financed by the NDI construction group and presented annually by the Association of Polish Painters and Designers in Gdańsk. The official ceremony of the award is held in Gdańsk and is accompanied by an exhibition of the laureate's work. \n\nThe award was named after the Polish painter Kazimierz Ostrowski (1917-1999).\n\nSource: NDI\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14747575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14747575", "title": "Kendall Walton", "text": "Kendall Walton\n\nKendall Lewis Walton (born 1939) is an American philosopher, the Emeritus Charles Stevenson Collegiate Professor of Philosophy and Professor of Art and Design at the University of Michigan. His work mainly deals with theoretical questions about the arts and issues of philosophy of mind, metaphysics, and philosophy of language. His book \"Mimesis as Make Believe: On the Foundations of the Representational Arts\" develops a theory of make-believe and uses it to understand the nature and varieties of representation in the arts. He has also developed an account of photography as transparent, defending the idea that we see through photographs, much as we see through telescopes or mirrors, and written extensively on pictorial representation, fiction and the emotions, the ontological status of fictional entities, the aesthetics of music, metaphor, and aesthetic value.\n\nWalton studied as an undergraduate at the University of California, Berkeley, originally pursuing a major in music, having been a serious musician, probably headed towards music theory. \nHowever, a philosophy course in his sophomore year convinced him to change his major, tentatively, from music to philosophy. After a few more courses, he became convinced he had found his calling, stating that he had always been “more or less hooked” on philosophy, despite not knowing it by that name.\n\nBecause of his background in music, Walton expected that he would have an interest in aesthetics and philosophy of art, but was unmoved by his contacts with these fields at Berkeley. After graduating in 1961, he pursued postgraduate studies at Cornell University where he attended a seminar with the British philosopher and aesthetician Frank Sibley that he discovered “how exciting aesthetics can be, how serious, rigorous philosophical thought can connect with real, real-world interests in the arts.” He wrote his dissertation, 'Conceptual Schemes: A Study of Linguistic Relativity and Related Philosophical Problems', with Sydney Shoemaker on philosophy of language, mind and metaphysics, and graduated in 1967 with a Ph.D.\n\nAfter having been invited to teach a course on aesthetics that he was not fully prepared for (having only had the one seminar with Sibley), he stayed up nearly all night brainstorming topics, which led to his paper 'Categories of Art'. Recognizing that the analytic tradition had not explored aesthetics at the time, he was drawn to the idea of being a pioneer, staying “That is more fun, for me, than fine tuning ideas others have worked on for decades or centuries. And I don’t have to leave behind my interests in music and the other arts”\n\nHe joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1965, and became Charles L. Stevenson Collegiate Professor in 1999. He was elected as a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1998, and received an honorary doctorate from the University of Nottingham in 2005. He was president of the American Society for Aesthetics from 2003 to 2005.\n\nWalton's major contribution to philosophy is his theory of representation, known as the make-believe theory. In the context of ontology, the same theory is usually referred to as pretence theory, and in the context of representational arts, prop theory. Walton has been working on this philosophical theory since 1973, and it is expounded in his 1990 magnum opus \"Mimesis as Make -Believe: On the Foundations of the Representational Arts\". The theory is a development of Ernst Gombrich's sketched ideas concerning the relationship between toys and art, presented in his famous essay 'Meditations on a Hobby Horse', which Walton has described as having been “largely ignored” by most of philosophy of art.\n\nAccording to Walton's theory, representational art can be understood as props that prescribe specific imaginings, analogous to the way children's toys such as dolls and teddy bears function as props in children's games of make-believe, albeit with greater sophistication. Via certain principles of generation, any such prop generates fictional truths, which collectively constitute fictional worlds. Walton identifies two kinds of such worlds: the game world of each participant and the work world, which can be thought of as containing only such content as is true in any well-formed game world. Props are divided into two forms: sensory depictions (such as paintings, sculpture and certain kinds of music), and verbal representations (such as novels and the spoken component of theater).\n\nA key clarification that the make-believe theory offers is the idea that the term 'fictional' can be taken to mean “true in the appropriate game of make-believe” or, equivalently, true in the fictional world of the representation. Walton states that “Imagining aims at the fictional as belief aims at the true. What is true is to be believed; what is fictional is to be imagined.” He develops this concept into an ontology of fictional objects that eliminates any “voodoo metaphysics” by recognising that people sometimes refer to fictional entities \"as if\" they were referring to real entities. Walton identifies a pretence construal whereby a person \"pretends\" to describe the real world, when actually describing a fictional world.\n\nThe genesis of the make-believe theory can be found in Walton's 1978 paper 'Fearing Fictions', which addresses the Paradox of fiction i.e. how can we be moved by things that do not exist in the case of fiction? Walton's solution is to accept that our responses to fiction are genuine emotions, but to deny that they correspond to the conventional feelings that we refer to – rather, it is \"fictional\" that they are the conventional emotions. So, for instance, when a person who has watched a horror movie declares that they felt afraid, it is true that they were emotionally moved, but fictional that what they were moved to was \"fear\". Walton refers to these fictional emotions as quasi emotions.\n\nIn later papers, Walton has expanded his theory to recognize a distinction between \"content oriented make-believe\", which describes a participant's relationship to the fictional worlds of novels, films, paintings etc. and \"prop oriented make-believe\", in which the participant's interest is in the nature of the prop itself, not in the fictional world that attaches to it. Metaphors are a classic example of prop oriented make-believe: the phrase “we are in the same boat” is not intended to elicit imaginings about the fictional boat we are in, but to communicate by drawing our attention to a specific prop (the boat). Stephen Yablo has developed Walton's concept of prop oriented make-believe in connection with numbers and concluded that our understanding of cardinality is essentially based upon fiction.\n\nThe make-believe theory has been described by Jerrold Levinson as “the most significant event in Anglo-American aesthetics in many a year”, and compares it to Nelson Goodman's \"Languages of Art\" (1968), Richard Wollheim's \"Art and Its Objects\" and Arthur Danto's \"Transfiguration of the Commonplace\" by suggesting that it “joins a small pantheon of landmark books”.\n\nSimo Säätelä compared Walton's approach with the make-believe theory to that of Gilbert Ryle in \"The Concept of Mind\" (1949), albeit far wider in scope.\n\nPatrick Maynard has praised Walton's achievement, saying: \"he has worked out a theory of representation relevant to the arts. In an age of aesthetics glib about theory, I wonder if it will be appreciated how significant an accomplishment this is.\"\n\nThe game designer and philosopher Chris Bateman has adapted the make-believe theory to games and videogames.\n\nWalton has developed several additional philosophical theories pertaining to art. He has developed the groundwork for a theory of aesthetic value in which aesthetic pleasure is understood as being partly constituted by the admiration a participant feels for an artwork, and suggested that styles in art can be understood by comparison to the adjective qualities we attach to the actions that artists apparently took in making a work of art.\n\nAdditionally, he has developed a transparency thesis of photography, which is summarized in the following claim: “Photographs are \"transparent\". We see the world \"through\" them.” Walton recognizes that this use of 'see' may differ from its conventional usage, but considers it parallel to the way we talk about 'seeing' through a telescope or other such tool. In viewing a photograph, we thus have \"two\" related experiences: we see through the photograph to the circumstances it was originally taken, and we have a fictional experience using the photograph as a prop e.g. if one looks at a photograph of Aunt Mabel grimacing one may say “Aunt Mabel is grimacing” - it is fictional that one sees her grimacing, but in addition one actually sees through the photograph an actual grimace that she had on her face in the past.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24189541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24189541", "title": "Kurt Hummel", "text": "Kurt Hummel\n\nKurt Hummel is a fictional character and one of the male leads in the Fox musical comedy-drama series \"Glee\". Series creators Ryan Murphy, Brad Falchuk and Ian Brennan initially conceived of him as a fashionable gay countertenor who is routinely bullied at school. Kurt is portrayed by actor Chris Colfer, and has appeared as a character on the show since its pilot episode, first broadcast on May 19, 2009. \"Glee\" follows the trials of the New Directions glee club at the fictional William McKinley High School in the town of Lima, Ohio, of which Kurt is a member. His storylines in the first season focus on his struggle with his sexual identity as he discloses his homosexuality to his father and friends, and deals with his romantic feelings for Finn Hudson, the heterosexual co-captain of the glee club.\n\nIn the show's second season, Kurt is forced to transfer to a private school for his own safety after a closeted classmate bullies him relentlessly and then threatens to kill him. Kurt joins the Dalton Academy Warblers, the school's glee club, which is a competition rival of New Directions, and is befriended by their openly gay lead singer Blaine Anderson. Later on, the two become romantically involved. Their relationship has been well received by critics, and they have been named \"one of the most beloved TV couples of the millennium\" by Jarett Wieselman of the \"New York Post\". Kurt eventually transfers back to McKinley and rejoins New Directions, but continues his relationship with Blaine, who transfers to McKinley in the third season. In the fourth season, Kurt moves to New York City with his best friend and rival Rachel Berry, where he pursues his musical education while interning for Vogue.com. For the remainder of the series, \"Glee\" charts Kurt's life in Lima and New York as he grapples with young adulthood and realising his career ambitions.\n\nColfer describes Kurt as projecting a very confident \"I'm better than you\" personality, despite being a typically scared and anxious teenager. Kurt's solos for New Directions tend to be songs—usually show tunes—traditionally performed by women, which best suit his countertenor voice. His occasionally complex—but always loving—relationship with his father has been a focus for the show. Colfer's portrayal of Kurt has received much critical praise, and he has been the recipient of several awards, including Best Supporting Actor in a Series, Miniseries or Television Film at the 2011 Golden Globe Awards. He has also garnered many award nominations, which include the 2010 and 2011 Emmy Awards for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series. In April 2011, Colfer was named one of the 2011 Time 100, \"Time\"'s list of the 100 most influential people.\n\nPrior to being cast in \"Glee\", Colfer had no professional acting experience. He originally auditioned for the role of Artie Abrams, performing \"Mr. Cellophane\" from the musical \"Chicago\". Murphy was so impressed by his performance that the role of Kurt was created for him. To keep the number of students in the glee club constant, a character named Rajish was cut from the show. Kurt's name is inspired by the character Kurt von Trapp from \"The Sound of Music\", a role that Colfer once played as a child. The Hummel surname comes from the popular German Hummel figurines; Colfer explained in an interview that Murphy thought he had their rosy-cheeked complexion. Murphy praised Colfer's abilities despite his lack of formal training, saying, \"I just thought he was so talented and gifted and unusual. I've never seen anyone who looks like him or acts like him or sounds like him. You'd think he’d been at Juilliard for six years but he hasn't.\" Murphy saw something of himself in the young actor, a fact that Colfer says is \"completely mind-blowing\". Colfer added, \"For him to see me in him, I can't even describe it.\"\n\nAfter being cast, Colfer said that he was happy \"to be a part of something that is so new and different and so needed at this time\", and added, \"It's good to have something positive, especially for kids in small towns, like myself, who need a little pick-me-up.\" Kurt has twice been portrayed as a child: in the episode \"Grilled Cheesus\", a series of flashback scenes show Kurt at the age of eight, in which the character is played by Adam Kolkin. Although Kolkin was thirteen at the time of the audition, which called for an eight-year-old, he was chosen in part because his resemblance to Colfer was \"so uncanny even the casting directors were taken aback\". Kurt has also been shown even younger—in the episode \"The Substitute\", club director Will Schuester (Matthew Morrison) comes down with the flu and has a hallucination of the students as preschoolers; all twelve glee club members, including Kurt, are played by very young children.\n\nIn December 2010, Murphy announced that the cast of \"Glee\" would be replaced at the end of the third season to coincide with their graduation. He said, \"Every year we're going to populate a new group. There's nothing more depressing than a high schooler with a bald spot.\" He also revealed that some of the original cast would leave as early as 2012: \"I think you have to be true to the fact that here is a group of people who come and go in these teachers' lives.\" Murphy stated in July 2011 that Colfer would be one of the actors leaving at the end of the third season, and Colfer commented on the report, saying, \"We had kind of known since the beginning, since we started the show, that these characters were going to grow up and they were going to graduate eventually. I don't think I thought it was going to happen so soon, necessarily, but I think we knew something like this was coming.\" However, Falchuk later said that while Colfer, along with Lea Michele and Cory Monteith, would graduate at the end of the third season, their graduation did not mean that they would leave the show. Falchuk insisted that \"it was never our plan or our intention to let them go... They are not done with the show after this season.\"\n\nIn the show's pilot episode, Kurt auditions for the New Directions glee club by performing \"Mr. Cellophane\" from \"Chicago\". Although he initially hides his homosexuality, many of the other members assume he is gay. He confides that he is gay to fellow glee club member Mercedes (Amber Riley) in \"Acafellas\", and the two develop a close friendship. In the following episode, \"Preggers\", Kurt joins the school football team as a kicker in order to impress his widowed father, Burt Hummel (Mike O'Malley), and helps the failing team win its first game by kicking the tie-breaking extra point. His heightened confidence leads him to disclose his homosexuality to his father, who not only responds with love and acceptance, but also surprises Kurt by telling him that he has long been aware that Kurt was gay. Kurt quits the football team in \"Mash-Up\", when Coach Ken Tanaka (Patrick Gallagher) forces the glee club members of the team to choose between the club and the team.\n\nKurt competes against the glee club's star singer Rachel Berry (Lea Michele) for a solo on \"Defying Gravity\" from the musical \"Wicked\". However, after Burt receives a phone call labeling his son \"a fag\", Kurt intentionally misses the song's high note in order to lose the competition and save his father from further harassment. In the episode \"Ballad\", Kurt is teamed with club member and quarterback Finn Hudson (Cory Monteith), for whom he harbors romantic feelings. He is aware that Rachel is also attracted to Finn, and attempts to sabotage her chances with him by giving her a bad makeover. In \"The Power of Madonna\", Kurt and Mercedes, dissatisfied with their limited solo opportunities within the glee club, become singers for the school's cheerleading squad, the Cheerios. Although Mercedes soon resigns from the squad, Kurt stays through the National cheerleading competition, and performs a major solo in the routine that wins the Cheerios their sixth consecutive national championship.\n\nKurt introduces his father to Finn's mother Carole (Romy Rosemont) in the hope that if the two began dating, it would bring Kurt closer to Finn. Finn is initially unhappy when he finds out his mother is in a serious relationship, but he soon bonds with Burt over sports and other traditionally masculine activities. Kurt, who becomes jealous over their growing relationship, briefly attempts to reclaim his father's attention by acting more masculine: he imitates Burt's style of dress, asks him for advice on performing songs by his favorite artist, John Mellencamp, and arranges to have Burt walk in on him kissing cheerleader and glee club member Brittany Pierce (Heather Morris). In the episode \"Theatricality\", Burt invites Carole and Finn to move in with him and Kurt. Aware of Kurt's attraction to him, Finn is uncomfortable with sharing a bedroom with Kurt. In the hopes of pleasing Finn, Kurt redecorates their bedroom, but Finn is appalled by its fancy appearance and lack of privacy. During the ensuing argument, when Kurt refuses to acknowledge his infatuation, Finn loses his temper and calls the new furnishings \"faggy\". Burt overhears Finn's words, angrily berates Finn, and throws him out. However, at the end of the episode, when two bullies are about to attack Kurt, Finn redeems himself by defending him.\n\nBurt suffers a heart attack early in the second season. He is comatose for several days, and Kurt is terrified that he might lose him. When members of the glee club sing religious songs to comfort him, Kurt, who does not believe in God, feels alienated, and lashes out at them. Burt eventually regains consciousness, and Kurt takes charge of his recovery. In the episode \"Duets\", Kurt suspects new glee club member and transfer student Sam Evans (Chord Overstreet) is gay and recruits Sam to be his teammate in the club's duets competition. Finn attempts to dissuade Kurt from partnering with Sam by predicting that Sam will be bullied to the point of quitting the club if he sings a duet with another male student. After Burt points out that Kurt may be taking advantage of Sam, Kurt terminates the partnership, and performs a \"duet\" with himself, singing \"Le Jazz Hot!\" from \"Victor Victoria\". With unusual empathy, Rachel notices how lonely and unhappy Kurt seems, and realizes how hard it is for him to be the only publicly gay student at school. She reminds Kurt that the club members value him highly and that he is not alone, and asks him to sing the Judy Garland / Barbra Streisand duet of \"Get Happy\" and \"Happy Days Are Here Again\" with her.\nIn \"Never Been Kissed\", Kurt goes to spy on the Dalton Academy glee club, the Warblers—New Directions' primary competition for Sectionals—and meets openly gay student Blaine Anderson (Darren Criss), who then flirts with him while singing lead in a Warblers performance of \"Teenage Dream\". Kurt tells Blaine that he is being tormented by a homophobic bully at his high school, and Blaine convinces him to stand up for himself. When the bully, Dave Karofsky, throws Kurt against a locker, Kurt confronts him, and an increasingly agitated Karofsky abruptly grabs Kurt and kisses him. Before Karofsky can initiate a second kiss, Kurt shoves him away. Kurt and Blaine try to talk to Karofsky about being gay and closeted, but he denies the kiss. The bullying intensifies, and Karofsky threatens to kill Kurt if Kurt reveals their kiss to anyone. After Burt learns about Karofsky's threat to his son, Karofsky is expelled. Burt and Carole get married, but when Karofsky's expulsion is reversed by the school board, the newlyweds decide to spend the money they had saved for their honeymoon on tuition to transfer Kurt to Dalton Academy, which enforces a zero-tolerance policy against bullying.\n\nAt Dalton, Kurt joins the Warblers. When the Warblers and New Directions meet at the show choir Sectionals competition, they tie for first place, making both groups eligible for Regionals. Kurt and Blaine become good friends, and Kurt soon falls in love with Blaine, though Blaine is initially oblivious to Kurt's regard. However, in the episode \"Original Song\", Blaine realizes his true feelings for Kurt, and they share a kiss. To Kurt's disappointment, the Warblers lose to New Directions at the Regionals competition. He transfers back to McKinley in \"Born This Way\" after Karofsky starts an anti-bullying club with glee club member Santana Lopez (Naya Rivera), and personally assures Kurt that he regrets his earlier threats.\n\nKurt invites Blaine to the McKinley junior prom in \"Prom Queen\". The attendees greet Karofsky's election as Prom King with great enthusiasm, but a stunned silence falls when Kurt is declared Prom Queen due to having received an overwhelming number of unwanted write-in votes in the secret balloting. Humiliated, Kurt flees in tears, but is able to calm down and return for his coronation; his comment—\"Eat your heart out, Kate Middleton\"—garners applause that swells into an ovation. The traditional dance between King and Queen is next, and Karofsky is faced with having to partner with a boy in front of his classmates. He rejects Kurt's suggestion to come out at the prom, and abandons Kurt on the dance floor as the music begins; Blaine dances with Kurt instead. At the end of the season, the glee club travels to the Nationals competition in New York City. Kurt and Rachel sneak into the Gershwin Theatre where \"Wicked\" is playing, and from the stage they sing \"For Good\", a song from the musical. They both decide to come back to New York after graduation. New Directions finishes in twelfth place at Nationals, and upon Kurt's return to Ohio, he and Blaine declare their love for one another.\n\nBlaine gives in to Kurt's urgings and wishes and transfers to McKinley High so they can spend more time together during Kurt's senior year. Kurt and Rachel decide they want to apply to a top school for the dramatic arts in New York City, NYADA, but are intimidated when they meet some of their competition and decide their applications need to include more accomplishments: Rachel proposes that McKinley do \"West Side Story\" as the school musical so she can star in it, and Kurt runs for class president. Brittany volunteers to be his campaign manager, and he accepts, but when he objects to her suggestions for posters and paraphernalia as overemphasizing his sexuality, she decides to run for the office herself. Kurt tries out for the musical, but the directors aren't convinced that he's masculine enough to portray Tony, the romantic male lead, and cast Blaine instead, even though he's only a junior; Kurt is given the minor role of Officer Krupke. When Rachel believes that she might not be cast as Maria, the female lead, she panics and decides to run for class president as well, infuriating Kurt. She eventually withdraws and throws her support behind Kurt, and secretly decides to help him further by stuffing the ballot box in his favor. He nevertheless loses to Brittany, and Rachel is suspended from school for cheating. The same day that Kurt loses, his father wins a special congressional election against Sue.\n\nIn \"The First Time\", Kurt and Blaine discuss whether or not to have sex. When Blaine goes to Dalton to invite the Warblers to see him in \"West Side Story\", he is pursued by a new warbler Sebastian Smythe (Grant Gustin). Sebastian convinces Kurt and Blaine to go with him to a local gay bar—he supplies the fake IDs—and spends half the night dancing with Blaine. When they leave, a drunk and aroused Blaine urges Kurt to have sex with him in the back seat of the car. Kurt refuses, and Blaine walks home. He later tells Kurt that he was just nervous about the possibility of their first time, and that he cares nothing for Sebastian. They kiss onstage in the empty auditorium, and Kurt proposes that they go over to Blaine's house for the night, where they have sex together for the first time. In the episode \"Michael\", New Directions and the Warblers compete for the right to perform Michael Jackson's music at Regionals by singing his song \"Bad\". Sebastian, who has been unsuccessful in his attempts to steal Blaine from Kurt, throws a slushie laced with rock salt at Kurt, but Blaine jumps in front of Kurt and is badly injured by it; the cornea in his right eye is deeply scratched and requires surgery. Neither group ultimately uses Jackson's music at Regionals, and New Directions wins the competition. Later, Kurt succeeds in becoming a finalist for NYADA, as does Rachel.\n\nIn \"Dance with Somebody\", Kurt feels that Blaine has been distant, and confides in a boy named Chandler he meets at the local music store. The two hit it off instantly with their common interest of moving to New York after high school. Kurt begins texting Chandler quite often soon after that. Rachel thinks he's being in the wrong that Kurt is cheating on Blaine instead of talking to Blaine about the rut they are in. Blaine finds out about Chandler and is extremely hurt. Both Kurt and Blaine sing Whitney songs to express how they feel about their situation with Blaine singing It's Not Right but It's Okay and Kurt singing I Have Nothing as an apology. Eventually after having a talk in Emma's office, the two make up and are stronger than ever. In \"Goodbye\", Blaine is worried that he and Kurt will not make it as a couple after Kurt graduates and moves off to New York. Kurt reassures him that they will be okay as a couple. After graduation, Kurt, Rachel and Finn's letters from the New York schools they applied to come in. Kurt does not get accepted to NYADA.\n\nIn Season 4, Kurt joins Rachel in New York after she reveals that she is unhappy with her roommate and life at that point. After the encouragement of Blaine and his father, he decides to sell his car and fly to New York, where he finds a loft in Bushwick for him and Rachel to move into. Kurt applies for a job at Vogue.com and his editor, Isabelle Wright, who is also from Ohio, hires him partially based upon his portfolio of outfits and is impressed with his intuition and style. Early on, she leans on his support, and then quickly returns his support when he decides to give Rachel a makeover in the Vogue closet. Instead of being angry, she loves his idea to do a musical makeover for the website and joins in the makeover. Kurt becomes increasingly busy with his job at Vogue, and Blaine cheats on him in Lima. He comes to New York to tell Kurt what happened, and they break up.\n\nKurt continues working at Vogue throughout the season, and Isabelle encourages him to try to forgive Blaine, and at Thanksgiving, she brings her friends over to their loft and throws him a \"kiki.\" When Kurt reauditions for NYADA, he is initially rejected, because Carmen Tibideaux sees his technical skill and tells him that he can sell a number, but doesn't believe that he is emotional enough to be an artist. Later, when Kurt is at the Winter Showcase to support Rachel, she sees him moved by Rachel's piece, and announces that he will be auditioning after the intermission. Though he initially panics, Rachel convinces him that he doesn't need his bells and whistles to perform, and he chooses to sing \"Being Alive\" from Company, which impresses the NYADA audience, and he later gets a letter telling him that he has gotten in.\n\nAt Christmas, Kurt elects not to go back home, and so his father comes up to New York to set up his Christmas tree and spend some time with him. At this point, he tells Kurt that he has prostate cancer. He also has brought Blaine with him, who tries to win back Kurt's trust, but the trip is uneasy. When Kurt begins at NYADA, he struggles initially to find his place, and meets a student named Adam Crawford, a senior who wants to recruit him for his own show choir, Adam's Apples, and also seems interested in Kurt himself; Kurt eventually asks him out for coffee. While at Will and Emma's wedding, Kurt and Blaine hook up, leaving their relationship in a question, since Kurt is dating Adam, but not exclusive. When Kurt returns to New York, there is a snowstorm, leaving Kurt, Rachel, Santana, and Adam stuck together in the loft watching movies together. Santana strongly hints about Kurt's hook up with Blaine, and after they are back at school, Adam asks Kurt about his feelings for Blaine. Kurt says that he is desperately trying to get over Blaine, and Adam invites him to find their own romantic movie.\n\nWhen Santana moves in with him and Rachel, Kurt tries to keep Santana from telling Rachel about Brody prostituting himself. But Santana tells Rachel anyway, much to Kurt's dismay. Later, Kurt and Rachel confront Santana for working at a club dancing and try to encourage her to take a dance class from the extension school of NYADA to keep her skills honed. Still working at Vogue, Kurt is put in charge of a ballet gala, and invites Rachel and Santana to help. He and Rachel reveal that they both had experiences with ballet as children, and Kurt started ballet at the age of three years when his mother decided to take him. He bribes Santana to go with a designer dress, and once they are at the gala, she admits she was in ballet as a child too and loved it. When Kurt returns to Lima, it is to be there for his father's doctor's visit, and his anxiety is apparent throughout his interactions with his friends. However, in the doctor's office, Kurt, Burt, and Carole learn that Burt's cancer has gone into remission, and Kurt takes his father to the Glee club to sing \"Sunshine of My Life\" to him, which Kurt says Burt used to sing to him when he was little.\n\nIn the season premiere, \"Love, Love, Love\", Kurt, who is still in Lima, agrees to get back together with Blaine. Emboldened, Blaine decides to ask Kurt to marry him, which he does in an extravagant proposal at Dalton Academy, in the spot where the two met. Kurt accepts. He is back in New York in \"Tina in the Sky with Diamonds\", and gets a job at the diner where Rachel and Santana are working. He then returns to Lima in \"The Quarterback\" for his stepbrother Finn's funeral and subsequent memorial, and he grieves with his parents and friends.\n\nKurt was still living in New York, but he was visiting his father in Lima\n\nDuring the season, Kurt and Blaine have broken up but eventually reunite in time for Brittany and Santana's wedding. At the two's insistence, Kurt and Blaine get married alongside them. In 2020, they are still married and are a celebrity couple. Rachel is pregnant with their child who is assumed to be a girl.\n\nAccording to Colfer, \"Glee\"s creators initially \"were leaning on [Kurt] being overly flamboyant\". However, the actor stated that he did not want to take that approach \"because it's so overdone\". Instead, he decided to portray the character as \"more internal and superior.\" Colfer has explained that Kurt \"puts on a very confident, 'I'm better than you' persona,\" but that \"underneath it all he's the same anxious and scared teen everyone is/was at some point.\" Colfer also commented, \"In later episodes, [Kurt] goes through an identity crisis, accepting and finding acceptance for who he is. He's a tough guy in designer clothes.\" In contrasting Kurt to his own personality, Colfer stated that Kurt is \"very flamboyant and superior and uppity and into fashion\", while Colfer had never heard of fashion designer Marc Jacobs before Kurt referenced him in the pilot episode. The second-season episode \"Grilled Cheesus\" centered around Kurt's atheism, with Murphy explaining that Kurt is \"saying to the world, 'Prove [me] wrong: If God is kindness and love, make me believe in God.\n\nKurt reveals himself to be gay early in the show's first season. The scene in which he tells his father was taken verbatim from Murphy's own life. Murphy felt that the scene was \"a great thing to put on television\", because, while gay characters are often isolated and attacked, audiences have rarely seen an openly gay character who \"wins and triumphs\". He further explained, \"The show is about making you feel good in the end. It's about happy endings and optimism and the power of your personal journey and making you feel that the weird thing about me is the great thing about me. I've done other shows with gay characters, and I will say that in many of those cases, the gay characters didn't have a happy ending. And I thought you know what? Enough.\" Colfer has commented that his biggest challenge was in ensuring the scene felt \"honest\" and not comical or \"used as a punchline\". He explained, \"I think it's probably the first time a character's sexuality has been respected and almost dignified in a way, and I think that's really important, and there needs to be more of that on TV.\"\n\nKurt’s acute sense of fashion is exhibited in his on-screen wardrobe. \"Glee\"s costume designer Lou Eyrich said in an interview with the \"Seattle Times\" that Kurt is one of her favorite characters to dress: \"He never, ever repeats and you get to push yourself creatively. He's a perfect doll to dress because he'll try on anything.\" Eyrich sets out to dress Kurt with tailored pieces that \"exude his quietly flashy dapper dandyism\", mindful that as the son of a car mechanic, \"he doesn't have a lot of money\".\n\nKurt has a close relationship with his father Burt, who openly accepts his son after Kurt tells him that he is gay in the show's fourth episode, \"Preggers\". As the series progresses their relationship continues to grow stronger. Colfer has credited his off-screen relationship with O'Malley with improving the quality of their scenes together. Kurt has twice fallen in love. The first occurrence is initially alluded to in the episode \"Acafellas\", in which Kurt tells his friend Mercedes that he does have feelings for someone. Mercedes mistakenly assumes that Rachel, the glee club's lead singer, is the object of Kurt's affections, and although he later tells Mercedes that he is gay, he does not reveal to her that he is actually in love with the club's male lead, Finn. After Kurt hints to Finn of his attraction, their friendship becomes strained as Finn resists Kurt's machinations to get them together. The episode in which Burt defends his son against Finn's name-calling prompted a response from Eric Goldman of \"IGN\", who declared it \"one of the heaviest scenes \"Glee\" has ever delved into\".\n\nBefore production on the second season began, Murphy confirmed that Kurt would be paired with a new romantic interest. According to Chord Overstreet, his character Sam Evans was originally intended to become Kurt's love interest. However, Sam's storyline was later adjusted to pair him with glee club member Quinn Fabray (Dianna Agron) after producers observed the chemistry between Overstreet and Agron. Kurt was subsequently paired with another new character, Blaine Anderson, a member of the rival show choir group the Dalton Academy Warblers, who is initially a mentor for Kurt. Murphy was unsure at first whether their relationship would become a romantic one, and stated that he wished to gauge public response to their friendship before planning future developments. He commented, \"Part of me thinks he should be the boyfriend, part of me thinks he should just be the mentor. I didn't want to decide that until we got into sort of the middle of the season.\" Kurt transfers from McKinley High to Dalton Academy and falls in love with Blaine, though Blaine only considers him a close friend. However, when Kurt sings the Beatles song \"Blackbird\" in \"Original Song\", Blaine finally realizes his true feelings and the two kiss, marking the start of the relationship. Criss noted, \"We all want to see Kurt happy, and like all great love stories, if you have two people that can be together you've got to hold it up.\" When imagining Blaine and Kurt's potential future together, Murphy expected to treat them the same as all other \"Glee\" relationships by making their pairing \"as flawed and as exposed as everyone else's.\" This plan was confirmed by Falchuk after the characters kissed for the first time, though he later clarified: \"They're solid. They have problems—you have two stars dating each other, there's going to be some competition there.\" In the second-season finale, they each tell the other, \"I love you\", and early in the third season they decide to have sex for the first time. The Kurt–Blaine relationship has been well received by critics, and they were named \"one of the most beloved TV couples of the millennium\" late in the second season by Jarett Wieselman of the \"New York Post\".\n\nIn a July 2012 interview with \"E! News\", Colfer elaborated in regard to the progression of the Kurt-Blaine relationship in the show's fourth season. Colfer said, \"I would like to do something besides say 'I love you,' and I think Darren [Criss] and I agree on that. We're ready for the next step. They've been together for a while. Let's throw some spice and drama into that.\" In September 2012, Criss echoed Colfer's sentiment, \"We're like an old married couple now. Let's shake it up!\"\n\nTo begin the show's fourth season, Kurt moves to New York while Blaine continues to go to high school in Ohio, though he and Blaine remain a couple. However, after Blaine cheats on him, Kurt breaks up with Blaine. The two later agree to remain friends, though Kurt is unwilling to resume their relationship. That winter, Kurt begins to see Adam Crawford, a senior at his new school, NYADA. Despite this, Kurt has sex with Blaine when in Ohio to attend a wedding, putting into question whether Kurt still wants to be with Blaine.\n\nDespite all this, Kurt and Blaine do get back together in a romantic relationship in the first episode of the fifth season, \"Love Love Love\", which is incidentally the same episode that Blaine proposes marriage. Kurt says yes immediately.\n\nKurt heads back to New York while Blaine finishes high school back in Lima. Eventually, midway through the fifth season, Blaine graduates and moves in with Kurt. They have difficulties and agree that it would be best for them to continue with their engagement but as Blaine lives somewhere else for now as they both need their space. They will cohabitate in the season five finale.\n\nAt the beginning for the sixth season, it seems as though Kurt and Blaine have broken off the engagement due to difficulties living together and Blaine has moved back to Lima. Kurt later regrets this and decides to continue his schooling in Lima, to try to win Blaine back.\n\nWhen Kurt returns, he finds that Blaine is in a relationship with Karofsky. Despite everything that goes on in the beginning of the sixth season, Kurt and Blaine get back together in the beginning of the episode, \"A Wedding\". Later in the same episode, Brittany and Sue Sylvester persuade the couple to get married at Brittany and Santana's wedding to make a double gay wedding.\n\nThey continue through the rest of the sixth season as a wed couple and in the season six finale, \"Dreams Come True\", it is revealed that five years in the future, Rachel is carrying their child, a daughter.\n\nAs Kurt, Colfer features in many songs that have been released as singles available for digital download and are also included in the show's soundtrack albums. In the episode \"Wheels\", Kurt performs \"Defying Gravity\" from the Broadway musical \"Wicked\". Murphy selected \"Defying Gravity\" for the episode after Colfer related a story in which his own high school drama teacher had refused him the opportunity to perform the song because it was written to be sung by a female singer. Murphy explained, \"I found a way to write it into the show because that's in a nutshell what this show is about: someone being told that they can't do something because of what the perception of them is as opposed to what their real ability is.\" Colfer stated that the opportunity to sing the song \"meant the world\" to him, and that \"it's absolutely terrifying to watch yourself do something you've dreamed about for such a long time. I know I'm definitely not the best singer, but I think the message, the story behind the song about defying limits and borders placed by others, hopefully all that gets across with the performance. Although I do some very 'Kurtsy' things in the song, it's probably one of the most honest and close-to-heart scenes I've ever filmed or performed for that matter.\" Colfer's recording of the performance was released as a single, as well as two additional versions—one sung by co-star Michele, and another that was arranged as a duet for the two singers. The duet version charted at number thirty-one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, and was included on the show's first soundtrack album, \"\".\nIn \"Grilled Cheesus\", when members of the glee club are singing songs about religion and spirituality, Kurt sings The Beatles' \"I Want to Hold Your Hand\", dedicating the song to his father, who is in a coma in the hospital. Murphy stated that it would have been easy to have Kurt, an atheist, sing an anti-religion song, but instead chose to have him sing about love. Critics disagreed over the appropriateness of this song choice. Anthony Benigno of the \"Daily News\" said he \"found it particularly jarring to hear Kurt singing 'I wanna be your man' about his father\", but Jessica Derschowitz of \"CBS News\" and \"MTV\" Aly Semigran enjoyed that the performance of \"I Want to Hold Your Hand\" brought new meaning to the song, which Semigran named her favorite number of the episode. In \"Special Education\", when given his first opportunity to audition for a Warblers solo, Kurt asks Rachel for advice on selecting a song and she recommends \"Don't Cry for Me Argentina\" from \"Evita\"; the episode cuts between the two as they each sing the song. Both Colfer's and Michele's versions were released as singles, available for digital download, although neither appears on an album. Kurt and Blaine perform the duet \"Baby, It's Cold Outside\" during the Christmas-oriented episode \"A Very Glee Christmas\". The number was released on \"\", and although it was not also released as a single, it nevertheless reached number fifty-seven on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. As a Dalton Academy Warbler, Kurt sings the harmony line to Blaine's lead in \"Animal\" by Neon Trees in the episode \"Sexy\", and in \"Original Song\" he sings \"Blackbird\" by The Beatles. He also sings primary lead in a duet version of \"Candles\" by Hey Monday, with Blaine as the other lead. All three songs were included on the soundtrack \"\", released on April 19, 2011.\n\nColfer's performances have been well received by critics, particularly \"As If We Never Said Goodbye\" in the episode \"Born This Way\". Meghan Brown of \"The Atlantic\" stated that the song was \"absolutely stunning in every conceivable way\". She thought that he had the emotional connection, the musicality, and the storytelling ability \"down pat\". \"Entertainment Weekly\" Sandra Gonzalez also praised the rendition: \"Kurt apparently picked up a few helpful notes ... from his Warbler brothers and emerged an even better solo singer than I recall. ... Most enjoyable, however, was a tenderness Kurt added to the song that I don't think could have been duplicated by any other member of this ensemble.\" In his review, Michael Slezak of \"TVLine\" commended Kurt's voice and gave the song an \"A\": \"I feel like we haven’t had too many strong musical moments from Kurt this season, but this number, which pushed Chris Colfer’s countertenor to impressive heights, went a long way to erase the deficit.\" \"Rolling Stone\" Erica Futterman wrote that it was \"a sweeter moment than last season's 'Rose's Turn', but the high notes and big vocals are still there\".\n\nKurt has received mainly positive reviews from television critics. James Poniewozik, writing for \"Time\", deemed his coming out \"beautifully handled\" and praised the series for subverting expectations with Burt's acceptance. Rick Bentley of \"McClatchy Newspapers\" praised Colfer's performance in the episode \"Home\" and deemed him deserving of an Emmy nomination. \"IGN\" Robert Canning noted that \"Grilled Cheesus\", which focuses on Kurt's atheism and his father's heart attack, showed again that the Hummels' relationship was \"the most affecting\" of the show. Poniewozik appreciated the focus on Kurt and Burt in the episode and also named their relationship one of \"Glee\" \"strongest and most nuanced relationships\". The primary criticism by \"CNN\" Lisa Respers France of that episode was that it appeared to be an Emmy submission showpiece for Colfer. She said that \"Grilled Cheesus\" felt forced and disliked Kurt's angry \"overwrought\" reaction to his friends' prayers. Christie Keith, writing for the lesbian and bisexual media website \"AfterEllen.com\", praised Kurt's storylines and suggested that Colfer should win an Emmy Award for his portrayal of Kurt dealing with his identity.\n\nCritics were polarized by Kurt's storyline in the episode \"Never Been Kissed\". \"NPR\" Linda Holmes found it \"absurd\" that a teenager as deeply in denial as Karofsky would transition from bullying to kissing Kurt so quickly and described it as \"emotionally and behaviorally unsound\". Leah Anthony Libresco of the \"Huffington Post\" called the episode \"extraordinarily counterproductive\", and disapproved of Will treating Kurt's upset as the key problem, rather than the unchecked bullying provoking it. She found Blaine's advice to Kurt \"misleading and dangerous\", especially the suggestion that targeted children should be held responsible for confronting their attackers and putting themselves at risk of further injury, rather than for protecting themselves. Poniewozik noted that the storyline was inherently flawed, as the show had previously treated bullying in a light-hearted rather than serious manner, but said that its saving grace was the focus it placed on Colfer: \"probably the strongest actor with the most interesting character among the \"Glee\" kids\".\n\nThe love story involving Kurt and Blaine was met with critical acclaim, especially the events in the \"Original Song\" episode where the characters first kissed. Katie Morgan of \"Billboard\" stated, \"It sure took them long enough, but we're so glad to finally see Kurt happy.\" The \"Boston Herald\" Mark Perigard wrote, \"It was utterly, sweetly romantic, and Criss sold the hell out of the moment. It’s long overdue and it will silence the growing legion of critics out there who were unhappy with the pace of this story and why Kurt always seemed to be stuck in pure misery.\" Kevin Fallon of \"The Atlantic\" thought the kiss was \"sweet\" and said that he was pleased that it attracted no controversy whatsoever. Semigran praised the interaction between Kurt and Blaine, and characterized the kiss scene as a \"sweet, real and, shockingly, un-hyped moment\". She went on to commend the acting in the scene, and wrote that both actors \"handled it with dignity and honesty\".\n\nCritics were enthusiastic about Kurt and Blaine's decision to have sex for the first time in \"The First Time\" episode. Canning said that Kurt and Blaine's \"attempts to get a little wild\", and \"trying to grow up faster than they should\", were \"the better parts of the episode as they felt the most realistic\". Futterman praised their departure from the bar as a \"very faithful and honest scene\". Crystal Bell of \"HuffPost TV\" was impressed by the way the characters' relationship \"inspires gay youth in a way that we haven't seen on network television yet\" and called them \"amazing role models for all teens\", and \"The Atlantic\" writer Kevin Fallon said it was \"remarkable\" and a \"milestone\" that \"the decision by gay teen characters to lose their virginities is given equal weight to that of a straight couple\".\n\nColfer has won several awards for his portrayal of Kurt. He was named Best Supporting Actor in a Series, Miniseries or Television Film at the 68th Golden Globe Awards. His performance in the groundbreaking role earned him a spot on the 2011 Time 100, \"Time\"'s 2011 list of the 100 most influential people in the world. He and the other series regulars won Favorite New Diverse Ensemble Cast at the 2009 Diversity Awards. In 2010, Colfer was awarded Favorite Breakout Actor, Favorite TV Actor and Gay/Bi Man of the Year by gay entertainment website \"AfterElton.com\", who also rated Kurt as the seventh best gay character of all time. \"AfterElton.com\" said, \"Colfer's portrayal of Kurt is that he's taken a character that's in many ways a gay stereotype ... and turned him into a well-rounded person who can both make us laugh and break our hearts.\" Colfer also won the 2010 Choice TV: Male Scene Stealer accolade at the Teen Choice Awards, and was part of the \"Glee\" cast ensemble given the Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series award at the 16th Screen Actors Guild Awards. At the 2011 Dorian Awards, Colfer tied with co-star Jane Lynch for the TV Comedy Performance of the Year award. In addition to Colfer's own 2010 Golden Globe Award, the show won for Best Television Series — Musical or Comedy. \"Glee\" also received the 2010 and 2011 GLAAD Media Awards for Outstanding Series Comedy.\n\nThe role has earned Colfer nominations for further awards. He was nominated in the Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series category at the 62nd Primetime Emmy Awards for his performance in the episode \"Laryngitis\", and at the 63rd Primetime Emmy Awards for his performance in \"Grilled Cheesus\". He received consecutive Best Supporting Actor in a Series, Miniseries or Television Film nominations at the 2009 and 2010 Satellite Awards. At the 17th Screen Actors Guild Awards, he was nominated for the Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Comedy Series, and was included in the cast ensemble nomination for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series, and was again included in the cast ensemble nomination for the 18th Screen Actors Guild Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "42826231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42826231", "title": "List of 1960s musical artists", "text": "List of 1960s musical artists\n\nA list of musical groups and artists who were active in the 1960s and associated with music in the decade:\n"}
{"id": "718636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=718636", "title": "List of actor-politicians", "text": "List of actor-politicians\n\nThis is a list of politicians who also worked as actors:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe alphabetical list is \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28640730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28640730", "title": "List of oldest Russian icons", "text": "List of oldest Russian icons\n\nThis is the complete list of extant icons created in Russia before and during the reign of Alexander Nevsky (1220–63).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33622811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33622811", "title": "Madrid system", "text": "Madrid system\n\nThe Madrid system (officially the Madrid system for the international registration of marks) is the primary international system for facilitating the registration of trademarks in multiple jurisdictions around the world. Its legal basis is the multilateral treaty \"Madrid Agreement Concerning the International Registration of Marks\" of 1891, as well as the \"Protocol Relating to the Madrid Agreement\" (1989).\n\nThe Madrid system provides a centrally administered system of obtaining a bundle of trademark registrations in separate jurisdictions. Registration through the Madrid system does not create a unified registration, as in the case of the European Union trade mark system; rather, it creates a bundle of national rights through an international registration able to be administered centrally. Madrid provides a mechanism for obtaining trademark protection in many countries around the world which is more effective than seeking protection separately in each individual country or jurisdiction of interest.\n\nThe Madrid Protocol system provides for the international registration of trade marks by way of one application that can cover more than one country. The opportunity of having a single registration to cover a wide range of countries gives advantages, both in terms of portfolio management and cost savings, as opposed to a portfolio of independent national registrations.\n\nMadrid now permits the filing, registration and maintenance of trade mark rights in more than one jurisdiction, provided that the target jurisdiction is a party to the system. The Madrid system is administered by the International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in Geneva, Switzerland. There are 90 countries part of the Madrid System.\n\nThe Madrid system comprises two treaties; the \"Madrid Agreement Concerning the International Registration of Marks\", which was concluded in 1891, and entered into force in 1892, and the \"Protocol Relating to the Madrid Agreement\", which came into operation on 1 April 1996. The Madrid Agreement and Madrid Protocol were adopted at diplomatic conferences held in Madrid, Spain.\n\nThe Madrid Agreement was originally intended to provide for an international registration system, but did not achieve this for two significant reasons:\n\n\nSome of the large trading nations like the United States, Japan, and Canada, which have a large number of filings at the national level, did not join the Madrid Agreement due to another perceived flaw in the system: if the home registration upon which an international registration was based came under 'central attack', the international registration would be cancelled or limited to the same extent that the home registration was cancelled or limited.\n\nDuring 1966 and 1967, attempts were made to address this issue by establishing a new treaty that would reflect the need of the times rather than the world of the 1890s when the agreement was adopted. This led to the drafting of the Trademark Registration Treaty (TRT) which was adopted in Vienna in 1973, and entered into effect in 1980, with five contracting states, namely, Burkina Faso, Congo, Gabon, Soviet Union and Togo. In the absence of more accessions to the TRT and the low number of registrations since its inception, it was clear that the TRT was unlikely to supplant the Madrid Agreement.\n\nAs the realization of the introduction of a multi-jurisdictional (or at least pan-European) European Community Trade Mark (CTM) approached, the relevancy of the Madrid system came under scrutiny. Pressure increased on WIPO to maintain its relevance and strengthen the agreement by increasing membership, possibly through amendments. This culminated in the introduction of the Madrid Protocol, pursuant to which a CTM registration could be a 'foundation' or 'home' registration upon which an international registration could then be established. This mechanism is referred to as a \"linking provision.\" The Protocol, after considerable lobbying efforts by WIPO, was signed by many countries, including most of the present members of the Madrid Agreement, and some countries that are members of the European Union, but were not members of the Madrid Agreement. The Protocol entered into force on December 1, 1995 and became operative on April 1, 1996.\n\nMany countries have needed to modify or consider modifying their trademark laws in order to adhere to the Protocol, in addition to the modifications required by GATT-TRIPS/WTO.\n\nIn Europe, resistance to the Protocol was brought by trademark attorneys who were afraid of losing business because a Community Trade Mark application could be filed directly through the Madrid Protocol process.\n\nIn the United States, the proposal bogged down due to a trademark dispute between two businesses who were heavy campaign contributors to certain Congressmen, followed by a repeated reshuffling of the Senate due to elections and a subsequent defection of a Republican senator. The treaty was eventually ratified during the Presidency of George W. Bush.\n\nJapan revised its trademark law with the official acceptance of the Nice Classification (an international trademark classification system for products and services), as well as applications covering service using service marks. The members of the European Community have amended their laws to conform to the European Community Harmonization Directive. In recent years trademark laws in several other countries such as Malaysia, New Zealand and South Africa have also been amended to accommodate the changes. \n\nAdherence to the convention or the protocol includes membership of the \"Madrid Union.\" As of April 2016 there are 97 members. The original treaty has 55 members, all of which are also party to the protocol (when Algeria joined the Madrid Protocol on October 31, 2015, all of the members of the Madrid Agreement were also members of the Madrid Protocol and many of the aspects of the Madrid Agreement ceased to have practical effect). The term 'Madrid Union' can be used to describe those jurisdictions party to either the Agreement or the Protocol (or both).\n\nThe primary reason the protocol—which has been in operation since 1996 and has 100 members — is more popular than the agreement — which has been in operation for more than 110 years and has 55 members—is that the protocol introduced a number of changes to the Madrid system which significantly enhanced its usefulness to trademark owners.\n\nFor example, under the protocol it is possible to obtain an international registration based on a pending trade mark application, so that a trade mark owner can effectively apply for international registration concurrently, or immediately after, filing an application in a member jurisdiction. By comparison, the agreement requires that the trade mark owner already holds an existing registration in a member jurisdiction, which may often take many months and sometimes years to obtain in the first place. In addition, the agreement does not provide the option to 'convert' international registrations which have been 'centrally attacked.'\n\nThe Madrid system provides a mechanism whereby a trademark owner who has an existing trademark application or registration (known as the 'basic application' or 'basic registration') in a member jurisdiction may obtain an 'international registration' for their trademark from the WIPO. The trademark owner may then extend the protection afforded to the international registration to one or more member jurisdictions, a process known as 'designation'. A useful feature of the Madrid system is that this protection may generally be extended to additional jurisdictions at any time, such that international trade mark protection can be extended to new jurisdictions which subsequently join Madrid, or to such other jurisdictions as the trade mark owner may choose.\n\nIn basic terms, the primary advantage of the Madrid system is that it allows a trademark owner to obtain trademark protection in any or all member states by filing one application in one jurisdiction with one set of fees, and make any changes (e.g. changes of name or address) and renew registration across all applicable jurisdictions through a single administrative process.\n\nOne disadvantage of the Madrid system is that any refusal, withdrawal or cancellation of the basic application or basic registration within five years of the registration date of the international registration will lead to the refusal, withdrawal or cancellation of the international registration to the same extent. For example, if a basic application covers 'clothing, headgear and footwear,' and 'headgear' is then deleted from the basic application (for whatever reason), 'headgear' will also be deleted from the international application. Therefore, the protection afforded by the international registration in each designated member jurisdiction will extend only to 'clothing and footwear.' If the basic application is rejected as a whole, the international registration would also be totally refused.\n\nThe process of attacking the basic application or basic registration for this purpose is generally known as 'central attack.' Under the Madrid Protocol, the effects of a successful central attack can be mitigated by transforming the international registration into a series of applications in each jurisdiction designated by the international registration, a process known as 'transformation.' Although transformation is an expensive option of last resort, the resulting applications will receive the registration date of the international registration as their filing date.\n\nIn 1997, less than half of a percent of international registrations were canceled as a result of central attack.\n\nThe cost savings which usually result from using the Madrid system may be negated by the requirement to use local agents in the applicable jurisdiction if any problems arise.\n\nTwo significant recent developments in international trademark law were the accession of the United States and the European Union to the Madrid Protocol on November 2, 2003, and October 1, 2004, respectively. With the addition of these jurisdictions to the protocol, most major trading jurisdictions have joined the Madrid system.\n\nOn 31 July 2015, Algeria deposited its instrument of accession and will accede to the Madrid Protocol on 31 October 2015. As Algeria was the last member of the Madrid system to adhere to the protocol, the protocol is now effective across the entire Madrid system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17988197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17988197", "title": "Minus Space", "text": "Minus Space\n\nMinus Space is an art gallery located in Dumbo, Brooklyn, NY. It specializes in abstract art and reductive art.\n\nMinus Space began as an online curatorial and critical project presenting reductive and concept based art. Reductive art includes geometric abstraction, artwork that deals with repetition, monochrome or limited color, seriality. and minimalism. It is also characterized by the use of plain-spoken materials, precise craftsmanship and intellectual rigor.\nIt was launched as an online curatorial project in August 2003 by Brooklyn artists Matthew Deleget and Rossana Martinez, and gradually developed into a showcase for dozens of artists. They began by putting portfolios and curating exhibitions online. Minus Space published interviews of artists, reviews and critical essays. At this point project was only online, literally \"minus space\".\n\nMinus Space then started to produce physical exhibitions in their Brooklyn project space. These included one person shows of abstract painting, installations and performance art. In addition they began to curate exhibitions nationally and internationally at universities, galleries, artist-run spaces and nonprofit spaces located in Manhattan; St. Mary's City, Maryland; Sydney, Australia; Houston, Texas; Brussels, Belgium.\n\nMinus Space opened their initial gallery space at 98 Fourth Street in Gowanus in April 2006. In September 2011, they relocated to a gallery-filled building at 111 Front Street in Dumbo.\n\nHyperallergic selected the Minus Space exhibition 'Roberta Allen: Works from the 1970s\" as \"Best of 2014: Top 10 Brooklyn Art Shows.\"\n\nIn 2008, MoMA PS1 exhibited \"\"Minus Space – The Art of Reduction\", a survey of 54 artists from 14 countries affiliated with Minus Space. The exhibition was curated by Phong Bui, publisher of the Brooklyn Rail and P.S. 1 curatorial advisor. The exhibition marked the 5th anniversary of Minus Space.\n\nIn 2008 Minus Space also curated an exhibit to \"re-present\" abstract shaped canvas paintings as new, made by Mark Dagley first shown with Tony Shafrazi Gallery 20 years earlier in 1987. Most of the exhibition of was painted in William S. Burroughs Bunker in the Bowery in New York City.\n\nThey curated a traveling exhibition \"Machine Learning\" which was shown at the Boyden Gallery of St. Mary's College of Maryland, The Painting Center in New York City, Gallery Sonja Roesch in Houston, TX in 2007 and 2008. The title of the exhibition was inspired by a subfield of artificial intelligence concerned with the design and development of algorithms that allow computers to \"learn\". Machine learning algorithms recognize patterns within massive sets of data. Real world applications include the internet search engine. This exhibition examined new pattern painting in the information age.\n\nMinus Space organized the group exhibition, Escape from New York, which originated at Sydney Non Objective, Sydney, Australia, in 2007, later traveled to Curtin University in Perth in 2008, Project Space Spare Room, RMIT University in Melbourne in 2009, and then to The Engine Room, Massey University, Wellington, New Zealand in 2010.\n\nIn 2009, Minus Space exhibited album covers designed by Josef Albers along with ephemera and documentation from the Josef and Anni Albers Foundation demonstrating the record jackets as firsthand projects in abstract applied art.\n\nIn 2011, Minus Space exhibited a collection of vintage issues of Life (magazine) representing the magazine’s historical coverage of modern art, including the 1949 article, “Jackson Pollock: Is he the greatest living painter in the United States?,” alongside works by the artist Loren Munk addressing both the history of New York School (art) and the field of art criticism.\n\nIn 2013, Minus Space organized, in collaboration with artist John Zinsser, a large survey exhibition examining the history and legacy of gallerist Julian Pretto (1945-1995) and his downtown New York galleries, active during the mid-1970s through the mid-1990s. The exhibition featured the work of more than 40 national and international artists in an array of different media, including painting, drawing, sculpture, installation, video, and poetry. \n\nRepresented artists and estates:\n\nMinus Space has also exhibited work by Josef Albers, Rene Pierre Allain, Taka Amano, Carl Andre, Stephen Antonakos, Robert Barry (artist), Tom Brazelton, Farrell Brickhouse, Rosemarie Castoro, Peter Downsbrough, Kathy Drasher, Anoka Faruqee, Gail Fitzgerald, Suzan Frecon, Michelle Grabner, Christian Haub, Nancy Haynes, Marcia Hafif, Betsy Kaufman, Melissa Kretschmer, Gary Lang, Ellen Lanyon, Christopher Lea, Julian Lethbridge, Daniel Levine, Sol LeWitt, Tom Martinelli, Douglas Melini, Gregory Montreuil, Olivier Mosset, Victoria Munro, Mary Obering, Antonella Piemontese, Donald Powley, Lucio Pozzi, Daniel Reynolds, Stephen Rosenthal, Michael Scott, DM Simons, Phil Sims, Cary Smith, Ted Stamm, Steven Steinman, Ted Victoria, Merrill Wagner, Oliver Wasow, Stephen Westfall. Robert Yasuda, and John Zinsser\n\nMinus Space has a space on the internet enabling it to collaborate with other institutions. The web site has an online log that functions as a web portal for information on exhibitions of reductive art internationally. There is also a comprehensive directory of related web sites for reductive art including galleries, museums and related publications, a directory of artists affiliated with Minus Space, and also artist interviews.\n\nMinus Space maintains a comprehensive chronology of reductive and concept-based art. The chronology includes major events, exhibitions, and writings in the development of reductive and concept-based art in Europe, South and North America from 1800 to date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53983915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53983915", "title": "National Asian Artists Project", "text": "National Asian Artists Project\n\nNational Asian Artists Project, Inc. (NAAP) is non-profit 501 (c)(3) company who seeks to showcase the work of artists of Asian descent, primarily in the American theater. It was founded in 2004 by Baayork Lee, Steven Eng, and Nina Zoie Lam.\n\nNAAP employs a multi-faceted approach to serving the community:\n\nOn April 25, 2017, the Tony Awards Administration Committee announced that Lee will be honored for her longstanding commitment to future generations of artists through her work with the National Asian Artists Project and theatre education programs around the world, as the recipient of the 2017 Isabelle Stevenson Tony Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44244184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44244184", "title": "National Union of Bibliophiles", "text": "National Union of Bibliophiles\n\nThe National Union of Bibliophiles (NUB), full name Non-Commercial Partnership “The National Union of Bibliophiles” (), is a public organisation, an association of bibliophiles of the Russian Federation. It was formed as legal entity in 2010.\n\nNUB’s history starts in 1990, when the Organisation of Russian Bibliophiles, ORB () was chartered, which had united on an informal basis around 100 lovers of antique rare books.\nA successful 20-years period of the life of ORB (it organised more than 10 exhibitions and issued over 200 printed works) was finalized in 2010. A need for substantial changes in the structure and activities of the organisation was the key driver for the bibliophiles’ decision to set up a new association in the form of a legal entity – the Non-Commercial Partnership “The National Union of Bibliophiles”, which effectively has become a successor to the Organisation of Russian Bibliophiles. The founders’ meeting of NUB was held on 22 October 2010 in Moscow at the State Literature Museum.\n\nOn 28 January 2011 the first general participants meeting of NUB was held in Moscow, where the Partnership Board comprising five members was formed by secret ballot. A prominent Moscow bibliophile and researcher in book culture, Head of the Federal Agency for Press and Mass Communications of the Russian Federation Mikhail Vadimovich Seslavinsky was elected Head of the Partnership Board.\n\nCurrently there are about 100 members in NUB.\nNew candidates may be admitted to membership in the partnership once a year by the general meeting of participants of NUB, provided that each candidate need to obtain and present three reference letters from the members of NUB and further, in order to be eligible for the membership, must satisfy one of the following criteria:\n\nAmong the members of NUB there are prominent scientists, journalists and writers including Pavel Gusev - Chief Editor of newspaper “Moskovsky komsomolets” () and Head of Moscow Union of Journalists, Alexander Sigov, - Academician of Russian Academy of Sciences, Konstantin Ernst – producer, Director General of the Channel One (Russian: Первый канал), Villy Petritsky – culturologist, one of the patriarchs of Russian bibliophilia, Lev Mnukhin – researcher of Marina Tsvetaeva’s work and history of Russian emigration, Yuri Rostovtsev - Chief Editor of the monthly “Studenchesky meridian” (“Student meridian”) (), Olga Tarakanova – professor, author of the only Russian textbook “Antiquarian book”, Mikhail Afanasyev – Director of the State Historical Public Library of Russia and others. They are all united by the passion for collecting and research of rare books.\n\nNUB’s activities are dedicated to bringing together people interested in book collecting, aggregation and dissemination of information about Russian bibliophile movement, extending the boundaries of the Russian book culture and facilitation of private book collecting practices.\n\nUnder the aegis of NUB there were organised International Scientific Conferences “Bibliophilia and Private Collections” (2011, 2013), various bibliophilic printed works of limited edition have been issued (monographs, magazines, sessions’ booklets, exhibition catalogues, albums etc.), thematic exhibitions have been staged.\n\nThe partnership organises and holds annual meetings of its members, at which it arranges round table discussions dedicated to various historical events, including the 400th anniversary of the House of Romanov (2013), the 200th anniversary of the Patriotic War of 1812 (2012), the 125th anniversary of the birth of Anna Akhmatova (2014) etc.\n\nStarting from 2013 NUB, jointly with the Russian bibliophilic magazine \"Pro knigi\" (\"About books\") (), presents an annual award in the name of N. Smirnov-Sokolsky for the personal contributions to the development of Russian bibliophilia.\n\nNUB participates in the work of national and international book fairs and exhibitions, where it distributes scientific and bibliophilic printed works of limited editions.\n\nMembers of the partnership are involved in the work of more than 10 bibliophile clubs located at various cities of Russia, Ukraine and Israel, where they are engaged in the research activities in the area of theory and history of rare books.\n\nIn Moscow the club “Bibliophilic Hive” () (Hosted by M.V.Seslavinsky) is in active operation.\n\nThe subject matters of the meetings are dedicated to the history of Russian bibliophilia (including outstanding book collections of the past), art of the book and book cover. Among the permanent participants of the meetings, apart from the bibliophiles, are representatives of libraries and museums, antique traders and collectors. Some meetings are arranged jointly with the largest Russian museums and libraries including the State Literature Museum, the Russian State Library, the State Historical Public Library of Russia, the National Pushkin Museum, Anna Akhmatova Museum at Fountain House (Fontanny Dom) and others.\n\nIn 2012-2013 for the first time in the history of Russian bibliophilia there were organised joint sessions of the bibliophilic clubs of Moscow and Saint-Petersburg ).\n\nEach session is accompanied by a daylong exhibition of rare printed works from the collections of the participants of the club. During 2011-2013 the sessions’ results were described in the illustrative booklets (20-45 pages each) containing the principal theses of presentations made at the meetings, and from 2014 the club’s magazine “Vestnik bibliophila” (“Herald of the Bibliophile”) () is published.\n"}
{"id": "27009990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27009990", "title": "Opéra de Nice", "text": "Opéra de Nice\n\nThe Opéra de Nice is the principal opera venue in Nice, France.\n\nIt offers three types of performances: operas, ballets and classical concerts ; and houses the Ballet Nice Méditerrannée and the Nice Philharmonic Orchestra.\n\nThe “petit théâtre en bois” (wooden theatre) was first created in 1776 by Marquess Alli-Maccarani. Sold in 1787 to a group of gentry, it reopened in 1790 under the name “Théâtre Royal”.\n\nIn 1826, the city of Nice, encouraged by King Charles Félix, bought it from its owners and had it demolished and rebuilt. It was inaugurated in 1828 with Giovanni Pacini's \"Il Barone di Bolsheim\".\n\nIn 1856, a great ball was organized in the honour of King Victor Emmanuel II.\n\nIn 1860, Napoleon III was invited to attend an evening at the Théâtre Royal. For this special occasion, Johann Strauss led the orchestra. The same year, the theatre became the “Théâtre Impérial”. In 1864, Napoleon III returned, accompanied by Tsar Alexander II of Russia. In 1868, Louis II, Duke of Bavaria attended a performance of \"Cendrillon\". The Théâtre Royal was renamed “Théâtre Municipal” in 1870.\n\nOn Wednesday, March 23rd 1881, as the opera \"Lucia di Lammermoor\" began, a gas leak started a huge fire. The fire was controlled the next day but there was nothing left of the theatre. Three siblings of Marjory Kennedy-Fraser died in the fire: Lizzie, Kate and James (soprano, contralto and baritone respectively).\nThe city of Nice immediately decided to rebuild another theatre on the same site. It was designed by architect François Aune with the apparent approval of Charles Garnier, the architect of the Paris Opera. On February 7th 1885, the Théâtre Municipal re-opened with Verdi’s \"Aida\". Over the following years it hosted the French stage premieres of operas such as \"A Life for the Tsar\", \"Eugene Onegin\", \"La Gioconda\", \"Manon Lescaut\", \"Marie-Magdeleine\", \"Katerina Ismailova\" and \"Elegy for Young Lovers\". Artistic directors included Edoardo Sonzogno (1887-88), Raoul Gunsbourg (1889-91) and Ferdinand Aymé (1950-82). Musical directors included Alexandre Luigini (1888-89 and 1897-98), Albert Wolff (1930-32 and 1934-37), Antonio de Almeida (1976-78) and Pierre Dervaux (1978-82).\n\nIn 1902, it was named Opéra de Nice and is today referred to as Opéra Nice Côte d’Azur.\n\nWith the support of the Médecin family of Nice, the house flourished, attracting major singers and directors in opera, but despite the efforts of Jean-Albert Cartier from 1994-1997, the importance of the house declined.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2009 the director-general was the Belgian producer Paul-Émile Fourny. He was succeeded by Jacques Hédouin, with a policy of closer working with the Opéra de Monte-Carlo, as well as closer collaboration with the two regional orchestras, the Orchestre Philharmonique de Nice and the Orchestre régional de Cannes-Provence-Alpes-Côte-d’Azur.\n\nIn November 2012, Marc Adam became the new artistic director of the opera. The same month tenor Jonas Kaufmann performed there. Adam departed in 2015 to be replaced by Eric Chevalier.\n\nThe Diacosmie is the workshop of the Opéra de Nice, where everything from costumes to sets is created. The building also houses rehearsal rooms for the Nice Philharmonic Orchestra and the Ballet Nice Méditerrannée.\n"}
{"id": "53001361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53001361", "title": "Patadyong", "text": "Patadyong\n\nThe patadyong is a pre-Spanish wrap around loose skirt worn by Filipino women particularly in the lowland regions of the Visayas islands. It is similar to the \"sarong\" or malong used in Mindanao and Indonesia, but instead of the batik patterns it has colourful checked designs or patterns. It is usually worn with a kimona (a blouse that was traditionally made of pineapple fibre).\n\n"}
{"id": "48503624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48503624", "title": "Pia Colombo", "text": "Pia Colombo\n\nPia Colombo (born Homblières, Aisne, France; 6 July 1934 – died 16 April 1986) was a French singer of Franco-Italian origin, been born Eliane Marie Amélie Pia Colombo who acted in radio, cinema and television between 1956 and 1981.\n\nHer father was from Milan and her mother came from the Nord.\nShe was compared to Édith Piaf and was believed to be her successor when Piaf died in 1963 but Colombo was too intellectual for the taste of the general public.\n\nPolitically committed, Colombo was a big interpreter of the work of her husband, the composer Maurice Fanon, and of Serge Gainsbourg, Jacques Brel, Georges Brassens, Kurt Weill, Hanns Eisler and others.\n\nIn the 1960s she acted in Roger Planchon's productions of Bertolt Brecht's works.\n\nShe acted in the Popular National Theatre, Théâtre des Champs-Élysées, Théâtre du Châtelet Olympia of Paris, Bobino, Festival d'Avignon and popularised the songs of Léo Ferré.\n\nColombo died of cancer when 51 years old and her body is buried in the Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49630595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49630595", "title": "Rachel Gadsden", "text": "Rachel Gadsden\n\nRachel Gadsden is a UK-based visual artist and performance artist who is exhibited internationally and who works across the mainstream and disability art sectors. Gadsden has led a range of national and international participative programmes exploring themes of fragility and resilience. She has had a lung condition all her life and is injected by a syringe driver at one-minute intervals with the medication she needs to keep her alive.\n\nGadsden's artistic career began with the support of a Prince's Youth Business Trust Award (1988). Gadsden received a BA (Hons) Fine Art Painting from Wimbledon School of Art in 1998, an Anatomy for Artists Diploma from UCH Medical School, London in 2000 and MA Fine Art, City and Guilds of London Art School in 2001.\n\nGadsden’s artistic process explores the physical, historical and personal experience of aspects of the human condition. Experimenting with what the artist calls a psycho-geographical approach she explored the derelict asylum Cane Hill in Surrey in 2005. In documenting the process Tim Hayton said: “Rachel's mixed media paintings, drawings, projections and videos attempt to capture the building's struggle to survive and its inevitable physical demise, the decay being a tangible evocation of our own psychological ephemerality.” \n\nIn 2005 Gadsden received an Artsadmin Digital Media Bursary to develop a project narrating a history of North Wales Hospital in Denbigh. Ten years after the closure of the hospital an exhibition of her artwork Beyond the Asylum was shown in Denbigh Museum and Library, North Wales (2005) and Faith Gallery, Holton Lee, Dorset (2006).\n\nIn 2011/12 Gadsden exhibited Ubuntu as part of a GV Art London Group Show 'TRAUMA: The Art and Science of Trauma'. The exhibition was in line with GV Art’s commitment to support artists who generate meaningful collaborations and dialogues with scientists to investigate the human condition. Gadsden exhibited artwork from her initial collaboration with The Bambanini Group of Khayelitsha Township investigating the experience of living with HIV/AIDS. The exhibition also included Luke Jerram’s glass microbiology sculptures of HIV.\n\nIn 2012 Gadsden won an award from the Arts Council’s Unlimited programme, designed to support disabled artists across the UK to create ambitious work covering all genres.\n\nWorking with the Bambanani Group in South Africa, Unlimited Global Alchemy explored the psychology and politics of HIV/AIDS through a series of collaborative artworks, film and workshops. Work from the project is now permanently exhibited in Mandela’s Walk to Freedom in Cape Town.\n\nLuke Jennings in a Guardian review of Gadsden's project Unlimited Global Alchemy said: “Gadsden is creating an artwork with frantic speed, fighting her own real-life fight against the dying of the light. In the act of painting, she tells us, she is \"living in the second\". A profoundly affecting reminder of our shared humanity.”\n\nIn 2012 an exhibition catalogue of Unlimited Global Academy was published by Artsadmin. containing a series of essays on the work of the artist and written accounts as well as short talking heads films (on a CD accompanying the catalogue) of the personal and political journeys made by each of the Bambanani Group Members to counter discrimination experienced by people with AIDS/ HIV in South Africa. The catalogue for Unlimited Global Academy contains a foreword by author and Oxford University African Studies lecturer Jonny Steinberg who describes the project as the “product of a highly unusual consciousness.” Steinberg, citing Gadsden’s recognition of Bambanani Group Member, Nodumiso Hlwele’s motivation to create art as a way of managing chronic illness as a starting point for the collaboration. Steinberg goes on to say: “And not just unusual… but also important. For at a purely pragmatic level, those who make public works from this particular chronic illness, AIDS - be it in the form of art or advocacy or mass campaigns - are responsible for bringing these precious pills to countless people in the first place. Aside from producing powerful works for our contemplation, Gadsden, Hlwele and the rest of the Bambanani Group are also keeping a vital political matter alive.” \n\nIn 2013 the Qatari Government's UK Year of Culture featured \"This Breathing World\", a major solo exhibition of 54 artworks & films as part of the first ever Art & Disability Festival in the Middle East at Katara Cultural Village, Doha.\n\nIn 2015 Gadsden was commissioned by the UK Parliament to create artwork as part of ‘The Beginnings of that Freedome’ exhibition, which were gifted to organisations across the UK in January 2016. 18 Banners were commissioned by Parliament to celebrate 800 years since Magna Carta was sealed and the 750th Birthday of the Montfort Parliament, including 2 banners by Gadsden ‘1601 Poor Law’ and ‘1829 Catholic Emancipation Act’.\n\n"}
{"id": "2437077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2437077", "title": "Roberto Cavalli", "text": "Roberto Cavalli\n\nRoberto Cavalli (; born 15 November 1940) is an Italian fashion designer and inventor. He is known for exotic prints and for creating the sand-blasted look for jeans. The high-end Italian fashion house Roberto Cavalli sells luxury clothing, perfume and leather accessories. Former Acne Studios creative consultant Paul Surridge succeeded Peter Dundas as creative director for the brand in May 2017.\n\nRoberto Cavalli was born in Florence, Tuscany. His grandfather, Giuseppe Rossi, was an artist and a member of the Macchiaioli Movement, whose work is exhibited in the Uffizi Gallery. Cavalli enrolled at the local Art Institute, concentrating in textile print. While still a student, he made a series of flower prints on knit that caught the attention of major Italian hosiery factories.\n\nIn the early 1970s, he invented and patented a printing procedure on leather, and started creating patchworks of different materials. He debuted these techniques in Paris, immediately getting commissions from the likes of Hermès and Pierre Cardin. At age 32, he presented his first namesake collection at the Salon for Prêt-à-Porter in Paris. He brought it to the catwalks of the Sala Bianca of Palazzo Pitti in Florence, and later on those of Milano Collezioni, jeans made of printed denim, intarsia leathers, brocade, and wild prints. He then opened his first boutique in 1972 in Saint-Tropez.\n\nIn 1980, Roberto Cavalli married Eva Düringer, a former Miss Austria and first runner-up of the Miss Universe 1977 pageant. In Milan in 1994, Cavalli presented the first sand-blasted jeans. By December of the same year, he had opened boutiques in Saint Barth, in the French Caribbean, followed by others in Venice and Saint-Tropez. Besides the main line, which is sold in over fifty countries worldwide, Roberto Cavalli designs RC Menswear as well as the youth aimed line Just Cavalli, launched in 2000 and comprising today men’s wear, women’s wear and accessories, eyewear, watches, jewelry, perfumes, underwear, and beachwear. There is also the Angels & Devils Children Collection, the Class line, two underwear collections, shoes, eyewear, watches and perfumes. In 2002, Cavalli opened his first café-store in Florence, revamping it with his signature animal prints. This was shortly followed by the opening in Milan of the Just Cavalli café at Torre Branca and another boutique on Via della Spiga.\n\nRoberto Cavalli was a judge at the Miss Universe 1977 pageant where his future wife (Eva Duringer) was a contestant, who represented Austria and won second place. The woman that won was the first Black Miss Universe (Miss Trinidad and Tobago: Janelle Commissiong). In July 2011, his company collection was presented at the catwalk of The Brandery fashion show in Barcelona.\n\nCavalli has five children: Tommaso and Christiana from his first marriage, and Robert, Rachele, and Daniele from his second marriage.\n\nOn June 18, 2013, he was awarded an Honorary Master Diploma in Fashion Management from Domus Academy in Milan, during a ceremony after which he held a lectio magistralis.\n\nMany leading models have worked for the brand: Jessica Stam, Eva Riccobono, Laetitia Casta, Natasha Poly, Mariacarla Boscono, Karen Elson, Karolina Kurkova and Ivan Olita. amongst others. .\n\nAs of January 2014, Cavalii returned to the role of men's creative director from his son, Daniele Cavalli, starting with the 2014 fall collection, appointing Martyn Bal as his righthand man Also, on 24 January 2014, Gianluca Brozzetti (CEO) and Carlo Di Biagio (COO) announced they were leaving the fashion brand.\n\nIn May 2014, Cavalli approached Investcorp, an investment firm in the Persian Gulf, as a potential buyer of a stake in his fashion brand.\n\nCavalli was sharply criticized in 2004 by the Hindu community for marketing a line of feminine underwear (designed for Harrods) which featured the images of Hindu goddesses. The line was eventually withdrawn and formal apologies were made.\n\nThe Maktab Tarighat Oveyssi Shahmaghsoudi school of Islamic Sufism accused Cavalli of copying their \"sacred emblem\" for branding the Just Cavalli line. The Sufi school brought forth a proceeding in Europe to the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (OHIM). \"On 16 May 2014, the OHIM pronounced itself in the first degree rejecting the request made by the School to invalidate the Just Cavalli logo. The Court states that the two logos are not mistakable and do not present any similarities.\" Nonetheless, students of the Sufi school have continued their protest.\n\n"}
{"id": "32353188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32353188", "title": "Romanesque secular and domestic architecture", "text": "Romanesque secular and domestic architecture\n\nRomanesque architecture is an architectural style of medieval Europe characterised by semi-circular arches. The term \"Romanesque\" is usually used for the period from the 10th to the 12th century with \"Pre-Romanesque\" and \"First Romanesque\" being applied to earlier buildings with Romanesque characteristics. Romanesque architecture can be found across the continent, diversified by regional materials and characteristics, but with an overall consistency that makes it the first pan-European architectural style since Imperial Roman Architecture. The Romanesque style in England is traditionally referred to as Norman architecture.\n\nThe commonest surviving Romanesque buildings are churches, of which many are still standing, more or less intact and frequently in use. Many of these churches were built as abbeys, to serve religious communities. The living quarters and other monastic buildings of these abbeys constitute a significant part of the remaining domestic architecture of the Romanesque period.\n\nThe second most common type of surviving Romanesque building is the castle, of which the great majority are in ruins, as a result of war, or the practice of dismantling castles that might later be used in uprisings. A number of ruined or much altered imperial palaces, some of them within castle walls, others unfortified, have also survived in Germany and Alsace.\n\nExamples of purely domestic architecture include the great hall of a fortified manor in England, and a small number of large town houses in France and Germany and several palazzos in Venice. A great many more small houses are spread across Europe, often greatly altered by the insertion of later windows, and sometimes with their antiquity unrecognised and unrecorded.\n\nThe following is a summary of essential points from the section History in the article cited above.\n\nRomanesque architecture was the first distinctive style to spread across Europe since the Roman Empire. Architecture of a Romanesque style developed simultaneously in the north of Italy, parts of France and in the Iberian Peninsula in the 10th century.\n\nThe Romanesque period was a time of frequent conflict. Much of Europe was affected by feudalism in which peasants held tenure from local rulers over the land that they farmed in exchange for military service and employment on building projects. This resulted in the building of castles at strategic points, many of them being constructed as strongholds of the Normans, descendants of the Vikings who invaded northern France in 911. The invasion of England by William, Duke of Normandy, in 1066, saw the building of both castles and abbeys which reinforced the Norman presence. Political struggles also resulted in the fortification of many towns, or the rebuilding and strengthening of walls that remained from the Roman period. One of the most notable surviving fortifications is that of the city of Carcassonne. The enclosure of towns brought about a lack of living space within the walls, and resulted in a style of town house that was tall and narrow, often surrounding communal courtyards, as at San Gimignano in Tuscany.\n\nIn Germany, the Holy Roman Emperors built a number of residences both castles and palaces, at strategic points and on trade routes. The Imperial Palace of Goslar (heavily restored in the 19th century) was built in the early 11th century by Otto III and Henry III, while the ruined Palace at Gelnhausen was received by Frederick Barbarossa prior to 1170. The movement of people and armies also brought about the building of bridges, some of which have survived, including the 12th-century bridge at Besalú, Catalonia, the 11th-century Puente de la Reina, Navarre and the Pont-Saint-Bénézet, Avignon.\n\nThe system of monasticism in which the religious become members of an order, with common ties and a common rule, living in a mutually dependent community, rather than as a group of hermits living in proximity but essentially separate, was established by the monk Benedict in the 6th century. From this time onwards, monasteries were established across Europe, bringing about not only the construction of large churches, but also cloisters, domestic quarters and other buildings associated with community living such as hospitals, barns, and forges.\n\nThe Crusades, 1095–1270, which were intended to wrest the Holy Places of Palestine from Islamic control, resulted in the building of castles in Syria and Palestine. The Crusades brought about a very large movement of people and, with them, ideas and trade skills, particularly those involved in the building of fortifications and the metal working needed for the provision of arms, which was also applied to the fitting and decoration of buildings. The continual movement of people, rulers, nobles, bishops, abbots, craftsmen and peasants, was an important factor in creating a homogeneity in building methods and a recognizable \"Romanesque style\", despite regional differences.\n\nMost domestic buildings of the Romanesque period were built of wood, or partly of wood. In Scandinavian countries, buildings were often entirely of wood, while in other parts of Europe, buildings were \"half-timbered\", constructed with timber frames, the spaces filled with rubble, wattle and daub, or other materials which were then plastered over. Stone was often used for basements. The building material differs greatly across Europe, depending upon the local stone and building traditions.\n\nWhile in most countries stone is the usual material for substantial buildings such as castles and palaces, in much of Poland, Germany, northern Italy and the Netherlands, brick is more commonly used. Where stone has been used for domestic buildings, it is often in comparatively small and irregular pieces, bedded in thick mortar. Smooth ashlar masonry was used where easily worked limestone was available. For defensive buildings such as castles, the walls are massively thick. In all Romanesque architecture, the windows tend to be small. The general impression of Romanesque architecture is of solidity and strength.\n\nArches in domestic architecture across Europe during this period are always semi-circular, with the only exceptions occurring in palatial buildings in Sicily where Norman architecture was influenced by the Islamic style. Arcades (rows of arches) occur in the interior of large buildings such as the great hall of a castle, supporting the timbers of a roof or upper floor. Arcades are also used to create cloisters and loggias. Arcading on a large scale generally fulfils a structural purpose, but it is also used on a smaller scale, as a decorative feature, both internally and externally.\n\nIn Romanesque domestic architecture, arcades were most often supported on piers. They were built of masonry and are of square or rectangular section, generally having a horizontal moulding representing a capital at the springing of the arch. Columns were also used to support arcades and vaults, but are a feature of palace, civic and monastic architecture, rather than smaller houses. Colonnettes and attached shafts are also used structurally and for decoration. The capital on top of a column is usually cut so that it is round at the bottom, where it sits on the column, and square at the top where it support the arch. A capital might be undecorated, or else have foliate or figurative carving.\n\nTimber was used extensively in building. The majority of buildings have open wooden roofs. When building have stone undercrofts, or basements, this lower floor may be vaulted, with a barrel or groin vault. Vaulted domestic spaces are particularly found in monastic buildings, castles and palaces where skilled master masons were employed. Towards the end of the period, vaulted spaces in monastic buildings employed the ribbed vault, as it was used in abbey churches.\n\nNarrow doors and small windows are often square topped, being bridged by a solid stone lintel which may be supported on projecting brackets. Some stone buildings have retained wooden lintels. Larger doorways and windows are topped with semi-circular arches, as are arcades and vaults. Large doorways in more elaborate dwellings are often set within three archivolts or mouldings and may also have corbels or colonnettes and capitals, as at the Jew's house at Lincoln. Square-topped windows are often set in groups, with two or three beneath a single lintel. Round-topped windows are often paired under a wide arch, and separated by stone mullions or colonnettes.\nIn Sicily there are a number of palaces and churches where the pointed arch is used during this period, apparently adopted from Islamic architecture.\n\nStone buildings are often ornamented with projecting courses which may be flat fillets or rounded mouldings. These are sometimes carved with patterns, particularly chevrons. An arched doorway that is set into a thick wall may be deeply recessed, and have three or more bands of moulding around it. Doorways sometimes have colonnettes with small capitals, as are also found on the transoms that divide paired windows. Sometimes capitals and corbels are carved with floral motifs or figures.\n\nArcading is a significant decorative feature of Romanesque architecture, occurring most often in domestic architecture as a Lombard band which is a row of small arches that appear to support a roofline.\n\nColour was used in a variety of ways to enhance buildings during this period. Rendered walls could be coloured, with different fashions prevailing in different regions. Stone buildings sometimes had external details picked out in colour. In Italy buildings were often constructed with alternating bands of brick and stone. In Venice, the palaces of wealthy families had veneers of marble which contrasted with the painted stucco.\nInternally, the large wall surfaces and plain, curving vaults of the Romanesque period lent themselves to mural decoration and traces of them have been found in castles and wealthy homes. However, the vast majority of these paintings, like the buildings themselves have been destroyed by rebuilding and redecoration, damp, war, neglect and changing fashion. The few exceptions of secular decoration have mostly survived because they were in the care of the church. Very rare survivals of high quality are the paintings from Arlanza in Spain, which are now dispersed to museums in Barcelona and America. These frescos of about 1210 come from a monastery, but have secular subject matter, and presumably are similar to those that existed in some palaces. There are a number of huge real and mythical animals reflecting the world of heraldry and illuminated bestiaries.\n\nTapestries and other textile hangings were also used to decorate palaces, with the Bayeux Tapestry much the best known example - though now in Bayeux Cathedral it was very probably originally made to decorate Bishop Odo's palace hall in the 1070s, and other such hangings are recorded. The narrative tale of a heroic victory in war was another theme no doubt often repeated. The 11th-century Cloth of St Gereon may always have been in a church, but its adoption of designs from figured Eastern textiles was also probably a style used in grand homes. Textile hangings helped to keep draughty stone buildings warm, and had the great advantage for those with many homes of being relatively easy to carry between them.\n\nWithin the Catholic tradition, communal monasticism was established by Saint Benedict at Monte Cassino around 529. It was encouraged by Charlemagne with an increasing number of monasteries being founded across Europe in the late Middle Ages. The most influential orders during that period were the Benedictines, the Cluniacs founded at Cluny in 910, and then the Cistercians founded in 1098. Bernard of Clairvaux entered the Cistercian Order in 1113 and, as its leader, founded more than five hundred monasteries of austere design and often in remote locations.\n\nThe Carolingian Plan of Saint Gall dating from the early 9th century is a detailed draught of an abbey church and its accompanying monastic buildings, the oldest such architectural plan to exist since Roman times. It shows an idealised arrangement with individual cells for monks, workshops, amenities, gardens, stables and a school. It constitutes a living space for a completely self-sufficient community. Natural constraints such as the building site, the close proximity of town buildings, and lack of funds meant that in practice few monasteries were so lavishly constructed during the Romanesque period. From the 10th century, the great Abbey of Cluny set a standard of building and amenities that was to be emulated by others.\n\nThe surviving domestic and utility buildings of monastic complexes are in general set apart from the surviving dwellings of the common laity by the quality of both structure and detail. Although built for the communal living of lives vowed to poverty and simplicity, monastic buildings are in general solidly constructed and finely finished with vaulted ceilings, mouldings, columns and carvings that are directly related to the forms found in monastic churches, while the cloisters that formed the nucleus of monastic life are frequently masterpieces of Romanesque construction, style and ornament.\n\nIn general, the main living and working quarters of any monastery were the cloisters, four arcaded passages that surrounded a courtyard and were located, wherever possible, adjacent to and on the southern (sunniest) side of the church. The arcades at ground level were the monk's working and general living space, containing carrels for study and writing, and often along one range, a \"lavatorium\" where the monks could wash their hands and faces before eating. Above the arcades ran long dormitories where the monks slept. Where such buildings still exist from the Romanesque period, they are built of stone, although at the majority of early monasteries, they were probably of wooden construction. Monastic buildings generally became increasingly comfortable and more robust over time, with stone replacing wood, open arcades being glazed against the wind and open dormitories being fitted with wooden screens for warmth and privacy.\n\nA number of buildings surrounded and abutted the cloister. The chapter house was the most significant, as the meeting place of the governing body of the abbey. It generally projected from the eastern side of the cloister, and might have near it a narrow passage or \"slype\" that led to a burial ground near the eastern end of the church.\n\nAlso off the cloister arcade was a calefactory or \"warming room\" where a fire burnt during the winter. It was generally located under part of the dormitory. A staircase often descended from the dormitory directly into a transept of the church, and was used by the monks at night. Projecting from the dormitory was the \"necessarium\" or toilet block, with a drain running beneath the toilets. An important building of which a number of examples have survived was the refectory or dining hall. Adjacent to the refectory were the monastic kitchens, with their proximity to the cloister being determined by whether the cooking was done by the brethren of the monastery or by lay employees.\n\nSet apart from the cloister was the infirmary for the treatment of the sick, and where elderly frail members of the monastic community could be cared for. This was generally a large hall but might constitute a whole separate complex with its own chapel, kitchen and courtyard. A separate dining chamber known as the \"misericord\" was often attached to the infirmary, so that sick and infirm aged brothers could benefit by eating red meat, something not permitted in the refectory.\n\nEarly in the establishment of monasteries, it was expected that the abbot or prior would live in the dormitory, in communion with the other monks. As the role of abbot became increasingly that of a business manager and entrepreneur, this humble living style was abandoned, and separate houses were built, outside the cloister. Other buildings commonly occurring within monastic precinct include bakehouses, breweries, granaries, well houses, forges, barns and dovecotes. Guest houses were often built for travellers, and alms houses for the care of the poor. Schools were also found in association with monasteries. Many monasteries had a gatehouse where a member of the laity lived and guarded the monastic precinct.\n\nMonastic complexes often developed over several centuries, with buildings of different dates abutting each other, and individual buildings being enlarged and altered in later architectural periods. Apart from churches (which are dealt with in a separate article), large Romanesque buildings are rare, even within the context of ancient monasteries. However, a number of fine examples exist, scattered across Europe, with Sénanque Abbey, consecrated in 1178, being a rare survival that has retained many of its original Romanesque buildings intact, including the church, cloister, dormitory, calefactory and chapter house. The monastery of St Martin-du-Canigou, founded 1005, has also retained its original form and some of its original domestic buildings, although damaged, both by earthquake and over-zealous restoration. At Maulbronn in Germany the medieval monastery has remained virtually intact, but typically the buildings vary in date, with the earliest being Romanesque of the late 12th century. The Abbey of Fontenay has retained a number of important buildings including the monks' dormitory, the monks' hall, the scriptorium and a large forge.\n\nAt Lorsch in Germany and at Bury St Edmunds in England remain two impressive gatehouses of very different styles. The Lorsch Abbey gatehouse led into a complex the form of which can now only be determined by archaeology. The gatehouse itself dates from 774 and combines a number of features from Classical Antiquity such as Corinthian columns and the triumphal arch motif with Northern European vernacular in the triangulation of the \"arches\" of the upper story and the steeply pitched roof, and Byzantine ornament in the polychrome surface decoration. The Norman Tower at Bury St Edmunds was built by Abbott Anselm in the second quarter of the 11th century as the main entrance to the monastery from the town. It rises in four stages of different heights, with a single arched portal and groups of three openings of varied design on the upper levels, between flattened corner buttresses.\n\nRomanesque cloisters remain at many ancient monasteries, particularly in France, Spain and Italy. They vary from simple structures with wooden trussed roofs or groin vaults and arcades supported on stout piers as at St Milchael's, Hildesheim, to elegant ribbed-vaults and arcades filled with plate tracery like those at the Cathedral of Tarragona, Spain, and supported on highly decorated paired columns with figurative capitals like those at St Pierre, Moissac, France and St John Laterano, Rome. The cloisters sometimes retain an upper arcade which gave access to dormitories or cells, as at the Cathedral St. Léonce and the monastery of Santo Domingo de Silos in Burgos.\n\nOf the various chambers that abutted the cloisters, those on the ground floor often had groin or ribbed vaults like those found in the scriptorium at Fontenay. Where large buildings such as the forge at Fontenay have survived, they take the form of barn-like halls with flattened buttresses and small round-headed windows.\n\nCloisters often contained a well. At Unser Lieben Frauen in Magdeburg, Germany, there is an elaborate well-house in the cloister, while a ruined example exists at Mellifont Abbey.\n\nThe castle represents, overwhelmingly, the type of domestic architecture for which there is the greatest number of surviving examples in the Romanesque style. There also exist a range of domestic buildings associated with monastic precincts, palaces, civic buildings and town houses.\n\nCastles developed from wooden palisades, built for defense, or from mottes where an earth mound, usually artificial, was surmounted by a tall wooden structure and often surrounded by ditches. This latter system of defense was further developed with the addition of outer palisades enclosing a bailey in which domestic buildings were constructed. From about 1000 onwards the wooden building on the motte was replaced with a \"donjon\" (stone keep), the earliest of which is believed to have been at Doue-la-Fontaine, Maine-et-Loire, France, built in about 950.\n\nJudging from the size of the openings to be found in the lower stories, the earliest tall stone buildings appear to have served chiefly as residences. However, with necessity, they developed an increasing number of defensive features.\nMany such castles were to be erected by the Norman invaders of England. Although a number of 12th-century keeps such as those of Houdan and Provins castles in France were circular or polygonal in plan, square keeps predominated in England. Examples of square keeps include the White Tower (the Tower of London), Castle Hedingham in Essex and Rochester Castle in Kent. After 1150, there were a greater number of polygonal keeps, which were harder to mine. Examples include those at Windsor Castle, Conisborough and Orford castles.\n\nThese castles of rectangular plan are \"hall-keeps\", with their primary purpose being as the dwelling of a ruler, the hall being the main living chamber, generally on the first floor. In some such keeps the basement level has columns supporting a vault. The floors above this are of wood, supported on long timber beams of which plenty could be cut from the forests at that date. Within a large keep like that at Rochester, the main spaces could be divided by a stone wall or tier of arcades rising through several storeys. Many castles had projecting turrets at the corners which contained spiral staircases, while the thick walls of the upper storeys contained passages. Rochester has retained a fireplace set into a wall within a decorated arch. Upper floors of Romanesque keeps sometimes have differentiated windows marking the private rooms of the lord and lady. There may also be a chapel; for example, located in the White Tower of the Tower of London is the St John's Chapel, set in a corner turret.\n\nIn mountainous regions, castles often take highly irregular forms, adapting the plan to the site in varied ways. Castles have often developed over the centuries and typically have had additional encircling walls added. Between 1072 and 1080, Sancho III of Navarre (the Great) built Loarre Castle on a high rocky ridge in the foothills of the Pyrenees, as a commitment to the Reconquista. The castle was further fortified in the 13th century by an outer wall with ten towers. Although outwardly of austere appearance, Castle Loarre has living quarters of comparative comfort, and a chapel ornamented with fine carvings.\n\nOther castles begun in the 11th century were built on elevated sites that took advantage of the steep slopes for defense, rather than on moats. The central tower became the final defensive layer of the castle, while the main domestic quarters were built against the walls around the perimeter, allowing plenty of room for a variety of functions. Conisborough Castle is an English example, with the shell keep rising on the earlier motte, and a wall with the residential and service quarters built into it, enclosing the bailey. The ruins within the bailey show remains of a great hall with central fireplace, a kitchen and a two storeyed residential block with adjacent latrines. The keep itself contains a room for the lord, complete with a hooded fireplace, while a small vaulted chapel was built into the thick outer wall of the keep. Ludlow Castle, Shropshire begun in the 11th century, was lived in by a number of members of the Tudor royal family and had both its fortifications and living quarters improved over several centuries.\n\nThe Hohenstaufen Castle St Ulrich at Ribeauville, Alsace, and Castle Trifel at Annweiler are examples of this type of castles with comfortable living quarters. Münzenberg Castle is remarkable in having two tall keeps. It has a two encircling walls, with an ornate palace built into the wall of the upper ward, with galleries of mullioned windows looking out over the valley.\n\nOther less fortified dwellings, such as the Palaces of Kaiserwerth, Gelnhausen, Landsberg and Goslar, were constructed on more accessible sites, and were in regular use by the imperial court or officials. They have large halls, atriums, colonnaded balconies and courtyards surrounded by arcades, similar to monastic cloisters. These complexes, where they have survived without the over-zealous Romantic restoration of the 19th century seen at Goslar, are buildings of great architectural refinement.\n\nMany town walls, monastic precincts and palaces had gatehouses built with a guardroom or living quarters above a large archway. One of the earliest is the gateway of Lorsch Abbey, the lower part of which has three openings like a Roman triumphal arch, while the upper part, of polychrome brick, has detailing resembling half-timbered house, the effect enhanced by the large steeply pitched slate roof. By contrast the gatehouse of the Abbey of Bury St Edmunds resembles a church tower. Many Romanesque gates are set into the walls of Italian cities. These are invariably of fine masonry and battlemented but otherwise without ornamentation.\n\nFew houses of the Romanesque period have survived across Europe. One reason is that many of them were built of wooden or half timbered construction. A number of half timbered houses in Germany at Esslingen, Bad Wimpfen and Swabisch Hall have been shown to date from this period. The houses that are still standing are mostly of stone, like the house at Bad Munstereifel in Germany, the houses in Lincolnshire, England, and the houses of the village of Saint-Guilhem-le-Désert, Languedoc-Roussillon, France.\n\nOne of the simplest types of Romanesque house was the \"long house\". These were typically built of wood and thatch, were of a single story and housed both the family and the livestock. The long house had doors in either side, making a passage dividing the living quarters of the family from that of the animals. The living room had a central hearth, with smoke holes in the gable. There is an extant stone long house of this plan at Bad Kösen, Germany\n\nA substantial stone-built Romanesque house, like the Romanesque castle keep, usually had the main living space on the first floor, elevated above an undercroft. This undercroft might take two forms, either an enclosed cellar-like basement, or an open loggia. It might serve for storage, as a stable or for commercial purposes, depending on the location and owners of the house. This arrangement is apparent at the Manor House at Boothby Pagnell, and St Mary's Guild, both in Lincolnshire, England.\n\nThe living space on the first floor was, in the simpler houses, a single room, with access by an external staircase of stone or wood. Early houses might have an open stone hearth and a smoke hole in the roof. The interiors of houses developed with separate chambers and partitions of stone or wood. Additional rooms might be accessed from an external wooden gallery, cantilevered from holes and corbels along the walls, as seen the 13th-century house at Poreč, Croatia.\n\nDoorways might have a stone or wooden lintel, but were often arched, and in finer houses had mouldings, decorative carvings and perhaps colonnettes and carved capitals around the doors. A common form of doorway in Italy had shaped corbels projecting inward to support a stone transom, above which rose an open arch. This form continued into the Gothic period and evolved into the fanlight The simplest window were narrow and round-topped. Windows into important rooms were often paired arched openings, divided by a colonnette or mullion. Some houses have paired mullioned windows set under lintels rather than arches, while in France there are a number of houses which have rows of square topped windows divided by mullions and piers, set within the framework of a horizontal course, and forming a gallery.\n\nHouses built within medieval cities were restricted in space, often by the fact that the town was encircled by walls. As a response to this, houses in cities were usually multi-storeyed. The simplest of these buildings were extremely cramped for space, having just a single room on each floor, accessible only by steep ladder-like stairs. In some cases exterior staircases gave onto wooden balconies which served the upper floors of a whole row of tall narrow houses, as is evidenced by the rows of holes and supporting corbels that are found in the walls of a great many Italian medieval buildings. Likewise, small inner courts which provided light and air were communal spaces for surrounding buildings. They also provided for the collection of rainwater. Narrow multi-storeyed houses of the Romanesque period have survived in a number of cities, with the greatest number occurring in Italy, where they are generally built of stone or brick and have often been extended at later dates, or had their Romanesque openings altered, making them indistinguishable from later medieval buildings. Casa Dante, thought to have been the home of Dante Alighieri, in Florence, is a good surviving example. In Germany the Baumburg Tower in Regensburg is an elegant late 13th-century example showing elements that are transitional between Romanesque and Gothic in its decorative window openings which are different on each floor, and contrast with the smoothly stuccoed walls. Another house, at Karden, has similar features but in form combines a tower house and a hall. The extremes of tall city housing are found in San Gimignano and Bologna where families rivaled each other in the construction of very tall tower houses. In Bologna only the Torre Garisenda, (1100), 130 ft and the Torre Asinelli, (1109), 225 ft, have survived, but the much smaller walled hill-town of San Gimignano contains fourteen tower and the stumps of very many more, having once bristled with them. It has been suggested that the tall houses of this city served the practical purpose of suspending bolts of cloth for drying, in the shade rather than in the sun.\n\nIn France there are a number of locations at which clusters of Romanesque houses have survived. A group exists in the village of Saint-Guilhem-le-Désert, near the ancient monastery. There are a significant number in Cluny, including plastered timber-framed examples. The finest Romanesque town-house is at St-Antonin-Noble-Val, Tarn-et-Garonne, France, built by the Granolhet family in the early 12th century. This substantial house of three storeys has a broad street front, braced on one side by projecting bell tower with typical paired mullioned windows. The ground floor is an open loggia, with an arcade on piers. Across the first floor is a long window or recessed gallery with delicate colonnettes all framed between two continuous horizontal mouldings. On the upper floor is a row of three mullioned windows.\n\nIn Italy, a significant building of this time is the 12th- or 13th-century Rector's Palace in San Gimignano. This modestly sized building, fronting onto a square, has a symmetrical façade, a low gable that retains the appearance of a Classical pediment, and a portal that has a semi-circular arch raised above a broad lintel supported on corbels, a common feature of medieval Italian domestic architecture and also seen at the House of Dante. This house has a doorway, also with arch and lintel, between the two mullioned windows of its upper floor that once led out onto a balcony, like the one that has been restored on a 13th-century house at Poreč in Istria, Croatia.\n\nThe house at Poreč typifies the nature of the few stone houses remaining of this period in that the main living quarters were on the first floor, elevated above a basement or \"undercroft\", and accessed by an external stone staircase. The house at Poreč has another feature also seen in England, an external chimney breast projects from the upper storey directly above a doorway.\n\nOn the aptly named Steep Street that leads up to Lincoln Cathedral (once a great Norman church but almost entirely rebuilt in the Gothic style) are two merchant's houses which are known as “the Jew’s House” and “Aaron the Jew’s House”, (c. 1170). Both houses have been much altered and have been fitted with sash windows and shop fronts, but both retain their doorways and both originally had a fireplace to an upper room directly above it, with arches supporting the chimney and framing the door. The details of the mouldings of the arches over the doors and upper windows are of fine craftsmanship.\n\nIn Italy a complex of medieval buildings has been restored at the Castle of Monselice (Castello Cini) which includes houses from the 11th, 12th and 13th centuries. The oldest, known as Casa Romanica has two large arches making a loggia at the ground floor, above which rises a plain facade broken only by small windows and a jutting chimney breast. The loggia leads into a large kitchen with rough-hewn wooden columns standing on stone bases and spreading the weight of the wide beams of the upper floor on projecting horizontal brackets. The upper floor has a \"great hall\" and a smaller room over the loggia with a groin vault. The 12th-century \"Castelletto\" and 13th-century Ezzolino's Tower have both retained Romanesque characteristics, with the later being built of brick and having more ornate features such as paired mullioned windows on its upper floor.\n\nMerchant palaces are essentially city buildings, of initially modest scale but growing in size by the 13th century, where wealthy trading families both lived and carried out their businesses. In Venice a number of these buildings remain, with their open basement loggias stretching along the main waterway, the Grand Canal, and the principal rooms of the piano nobile opening onto an arcaded balcony overlooking the view. The round-headed arches are often stilted, and the openings on the upper floors are grouped in patterns with those to the sides being differentiated from the grouping at the centre. The details are handled with a lightness and delicacy that typifies Venetian medieval architecture. While the structures are brick, the favoured material for architectural decoration was marble, which is elaborately carved into intricate details, or laid on the surface as patterened veneers. Like St Mark's Basilica, the architecture of the houses shows a Byzantine influence. They include the Ca' Farsetti, Ca' da Mosto, Ca' Loredan, and the Fondaco dei Turchi.\n\nFondaco dei Turchi was built as a private palace for the wealthy Pesaro family and, like the other palazzi along the Grand Canal, was designed to facilitate business, with its long arcade stretching along the main waterway. It was one of the most imposing buildings in Venice during the late Medieval period, and was used by the Senate to accommodate visiting dignitaries. It was later leased to Turkish traders, hence its name. Although heavily restored during the 19th century, the building demonstrates typical features of Venetian Romanesque: the stilted, round-topped arches of the arcade, the pavilions at each end of the building, the upper gallery, the crenellations and patera, marble roundels or foliate ornaments applied to the exterior walls.\n\nThe Northern European version of the merchant house can be seen at the Overstolzenhaus, in Cologne, with six stories of windows and crow-stepped gables. While the open loggias of houses were used for trade and those of town halls were widely used for markets, (see below) other commercial buildings were purpose-built, sometimes by city authorities, to facilitate trade, with an important example of an extant commercial building being the \"\" () in Ghent, Belgium, which is close by the quay and has a wide front with two rows of openings to facilitate the handling and stacking of bags of grain.\n\nIn Italy a number of important Romanesque civic buildings have remained largely intact and have continued in use. It is characteristic of Italian Medieval architecture that there is no clear break between the Romanesque and Gothic styles. Groin vaults, rounded arches, paired windows, horizontal courses and other such features continued in use from the 11th century to the early 15th century. Often, in secular architecture, only the shape of the heads of windows indicate a late 13th- or 14th-century date rather than 12th or early 13th century. Many of Italy's finest Romanesque buildings, such as the Palazzo della Ragione, Mantua (begun 1250), were constructed many years after the Gothic style was already well established.\n\nThe open ground-floor loggia that is found in some Romanesque town houses also occurs in Italy at a number of buildings that served civic or communal purposes. In the cities of Mantua, Milan and Padua the Palazzo della Ragione (“place of reason”) and in Como the Broletto served as a town hall and centre of local government. These buildings spread their vast facades across large city squares which contrasted with the cramped medieval living quarters of most townsfolk. The loggia provided a covered communal space, and at Padua has been extended to form the city's major market. The Palazzo in Milan, also known as the Broletto Nuovo, (“New Court House”) is a red brick structure with stone piers and rendered upper floor. It window arches are polychrome in the Italian style. The Broletto in Como is faced with polychrome marble.\n\nThe Tuscan hill town of Massa Marittima has two Romanesque civic buildings which typify the character of medieval architecture of Tuscany as against that found in the north. The Palazzo del Podestà and Palazzo del Comune of Massa Marittima represent a type of Romanesque civic building that continued in the Gothic style in other hill towns such as Volterra and reached its grandest expression in late the 13th-century Bargello and early 14th-century Palazzo Vecchio of Florence, and the Palazzo Pubblico of Siena.\n\nDuring the 19th century, when Gothic Revival architecture was fashionable, buildings were occasionally designed in the Romanesque style. There are a number of Romanesque Revival churches, dating from as early as the 1830s and continuing into the 20th century where the massive and \"brutal\" quality of the Romanesque style was appreciated and designed in brick.\nThe Natural History Museum, London designed by Alfred Waterhouse, 1879, on the other hand, is a Romanesque revival building which makes full use of the decorative potential of Romanesque arcading and architectural sculpture. The Romanesque appearance has been achieved while freely adapting an overall style to suit the function of the building. The columns of the foyer, for example, give an impression of incised geometric design similar to those of Durham Cathedral. However, the sources of the incised patterns are the trunks of palms, cycads and tropical tree ferns. The animal motifs, of which there are many, include rare and exotic species.\n\nThe type of modern buildings for which the Romanesque style was most frequently adapted was the warehouse, where a lack of large windows and an appearance of great strength and stability were desirable features. These buildings, generally of brick, frequently have flattened buttresses rising to wide arches at the upper levels after the manner of some Italian Romanesque facades. This style was adapted to suit commercial buildings by opening the spaces between the arches into large windows, the brick walls becoming a shell to a building that was essentially of modern steel-frame construction, the architect Henry Hobson Richardson giving his name to the style, Richardsonian Romanesque. Good examples of the style are Marshall Fields store, Chicago by H.H.Richardson, 1885, and the Chadwick Lead Works in Boston USA by William Preston, 1887. The style also lent itself to the building of cloth mills, steelworks and powerstations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49985013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49985013", "title": "St. Benedikt (Mals)", "text": "St. Benedikt (Mals)\n\nSt. Benedikt is a pre-Romanesque church in Mals, South Tyrol, known for its Carolingian-era frescoes.\n\nIt was built in the second half of the 8th century. Until the 12th century, it was owned by the bishops of Chur. \nIn the 12th century, the romanesque tower was added.\n\nIn the 18th century, under Joseph II, the building was used for storage. Use as a sacral building was resumed only in the 20th century, after the discovery of the Carolingian frescoes.\n\nThe frescoes are dated to c. AD 800. They belong to a limited set of surviving frescoes of the Carolingian period, alongside those of the nearby St. Johann abbey in Val Müstair, Grisons.\nThe fresoes are mostly distributed in three niches in the altar wall, showing Jesus Christ in the center, flanked by pope Gregory the Great and Saint Stephen.\nOn the walls separating the niches are donor portraits below a troop of twelve angels, and scenes showing Gregory writing his \"Dialogi\" and disputing with Paulus Diaconus, alongsides scenes showing Paul of Tarsus and a fragment of a scene from the life of Saint Benedict.\n\n"}
{"id": "38341494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38341494", "title": "Stella Kramrisch", "text": "Stella Kramrisch\n\nStella Kramrisch (1896-1993) was a cosmopolitan art historian, who was well known as a specialist in Indian art and Hinduism. She researched and taught Indian art history for more than six decades on three continents. After writing her dissertation on the essence of early-buddhist sculpture in India, she was invited to teach at Kala Bhavana in Shantiniketan (1922-24), from where she went on to a teaching post at Calcutta University (1924-1950). In Europe Kramrisch worked at the Courtauld Institute, London (1937-1940). From 1950, she was professor at the University of Pennsylvania in the Department of South Asia Regional Studies, where she had been recruited by W. Norman Brown, in addition to being a curator at the Philadelphia Museum of Art.\n\nStella Kramrisch was born on May 29, 1896 in Nikolsburg, now Mikulov, in Austria. She was trained as a ballet dancer growing up in Austria. When Kramrisch was about 10 her parents moved to Vienna. One day she came across a translation of the Bhagavadgita: \"I was so impressed it took my breath away.\" She had found what she wanted to do in her life. She enrolled at the University of Vienna, studying at the department of art history with Professors Max Dvořák and Josef Strzygowski. She focused her studied on Indian art and culture. Thus she learned Sanskrit and read philosophy, literature and anthropology. In 1919, she successfully completed her studies by earning her doctorate. \n\nThat year she traveled to London in 1919 as part of a university delegation to give three lectures at Oxford. Rabindranath Tagore heard her speak and invited her to come to India and teach at the Visva-Bharati University in Santiniketan in 1922. She was appointed professor of Indian art at the University of Calcutta in 1924, where she taught until 1950. In 1924 her first monograph \"Essence of Indian art\" was published in German, which was reviewed widely in various journals throughout Europe. In the 1920s Kramrisch kept travelling to Vienna to give lectures. Various articles of her colleagues in Vienna appear as English translations in the Journal of the Indian Society of Oriental Art, which Kramrisch edited from 1933 onwards together with Abanindranath Tagore. Her seminal publication \"Indian sculpture\" (1933) was a profound analysis of Indian sculpture, conceptualized in size and format to function as an actual handbook. After the British left India in 1947, her husband Laszlo Nemenyi opted to work for the new government of Pakistan and moved to Karachi. In 1950 he was found shot dead on a beach. Only after this, she finally moved permanently to the United States. While in India, she had converted to Hinduism, and begun a collection of South Asian art, later left to the Philadelphia Museum of Art.\n\nStella Kramrisch was the Professor of South Asian Art at the University of Pennsylvania for a long period of time. She was also the curator of Indian art at the Philadelphia Museum of Art from 1954 until 1972, and was a Curator Emeritus until her death. In 1981 she curated \"Manifestations of Shiva\", a large-scale exhibition of Indian art and sculpture at the Museum, which was met with both critical and popular success. Her books include \"The Hindu Temple\" (1946, still in print in India), \"Principles of Indian Art\", and the encyclopedic \"The Presence of Siva\". She was a friend of the ballerina, designer, actress, and collector Natacha Rambova. Barbara Stoler Miller and Wayne E. Begley were among her students. Prof. Kramrisch was succeeded by Michael W. Meister, who is currently the W. Norman Brown Professor of South Asia Studies and History of Art at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nKramrisch died on September 2, 1993 at her home in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1982 the Indian government awarded Kramrisch with its Padma Bhushan award. In 1985 she was awarded the prestigious Charles Lang Freer Medal by the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nAt the time of her death, Kramrisch left a bequest of 25 works to the Philadelphia Museum of Art. In addition, Kramrisch's curatorial position was officially re-titled as the Stella Kramrisch Curator at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, a position which still exists today.\n\n"}
{"id": "34760864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34760864", "title": "The Art League", "text": "The Art League\n\nFounded in 1954, The Art League, Inc. a 501(c)(3) organization, is a multi-service organization for visual artists, as well as the founding organization of the Torpedo Factory Art Center in Alexandria, Virginia. In Old Town Alexandria, Virginia, The Art League offers exhibit opportunities for artists through its gallery, fine art education through a school, and outreach programs to the local community. The Art League was selected for the 2010-11 Catalogue for Philanthropy as \"one of the best small charities in the Washington, DC Region.\" \n\nSix female art students and their teacher founded The Art League of Northern Virginia in 1954. The League's stated purpose was to foster art and arts appreciation, sponsor lectures, encourage study and hold exhibitions. In 1967, the organization was incorporated as a nonprofit, and in the years immediately following, the League removed rules limiting members to residents of Northern Virginia and shortened its name to The Art League, Inc. The League's mission states, \"By nurturing the artist, we enrich the community. The Art League develops the artist through education, exhibition, and a stimulating, supportive environment while sharing the experience of the visual arts with the community.\" \n\nThe Art League played a critical role in the transformation of the City-owned, former U.S. Naval Torpedo Station into the Torpedo Factory Art Center. In 1974, Art League president and Virginia Delegate Marian Van Landingham proposed a project that would renovate the building into working studio spaces for artists. With the lease on its Cameron Street space expiring, The Art League was looking for a new location. After the renovation of the new art center, the League rented one-fifth of the space for its gallery and school.\n\nToday, the gallery, offices, supply store, and some classrooms of The Art League are housed in the Torpedo Factory Art Center.\n\nContinued growth led to the hiring of the first paid executive director, Cora Rupp, in 1981, along with other employees. In 2012, longtime executive director Linda Hafer retired, and Suzanne Bethel became the new executive director.\n\nThe Art League School offers classes and workshops for students of all skill levels and ages, in nearly all of the fine visual arts. Classes and workshops are offered year-round in drawing, watercolor, painting, printmaking, photography, ceramics, sculpture, jewelry, fiber art, and clay animation, in addition to art travel workshops to domestic and international locations. Nearly 7,000 students enroll each year, filling over 10,000 seats in classes. All classes and workshops are taught by professional artist instructors, many from DC-area colleges and universities. Classes are noncredit and are open to all. After the school's founding in 1967, classes were credited with improving the quality of art in The Art League's Gallery, with \"Washingtonian Magazine\" writing, \"the single most important thing The Art League has done to improve its image is to recruit a workshop faculty that includes some of the brightest luminaries on the art horizon.\"\n\nClasses are held in the Torpedo Factory Art Center as well as the Madison Annex building. The Art League closed its Duke Street Annex in September 2012 and moved into an expanded classroom space on Madison Street.\n\nThe Art League Gallery, located on the first floor of the Torpedo Factory Art Center, provides exhibit opportunities to more than 1,000 artists of all media and skill levels. Membership is open to any emerging or professional artist. Exhibits in the gallery rotate on a monthly basis. Each exhibit is juried by an outside professional not associated with The Art League. The Gallery holds approximately 14 member exhibits each year, including both all-media, un-themed exhibits and themed, focused exhibits. The Gallery also presents approximately nine solo artist exhibits each year. The Bin Gallery includes works by artists who have been juried into three or more member exhibits during the previous fiscal year. Special exhibits, events, and collaborations are also periodically featured. The Gallery maintains a library of art and art history books and offers lectures, critiques, juror talks, demonstrations, workshops, and tours. \n\nEvery winter, Art League members donate original works of art to be raffled off in the annual Patrons' Show Fundraiser, which sells about 600 tickets each year. The art is hung salon-style in the gallery, with ticket-holders selecting a piece when their number is called. The Patrons' Show was named the \"Most Fun Art Fundraiser\" in the July 2010 issue of Washingtonian Magazine.\n\nThe Art League Supply Store is located in the Torpedo Factory Art Center and is staffed by working artists. Art supplies and materials requested by instructors are sold here at a low price.\n\nIn 2003, in partnership with the Alexandria Court Service Unit, The Art League established a mentoring program for at-risk girls in Alexandria, called A Space Of Her Own (SOHO). The SOHO program engages at-risk, low-income, 5th-grade girls in a year of personal growth centered on art. Each participating girl is paired with an adult, female mentor to partake in art lessons taught by an Art League instructor. These sessions become the catalyst to discuss larger life concerns, decision-making, and emotional issues. At the completion of the program, the teams remodel each of the girls' bedrooms, incorporating all of their artwork, to give each girl a \"space of her own.\". In 2009, the Presidential Committee on the Arts and Humanities named SOHO a semi-finalist for the Coming Up Taller awards (now National Arts & Humanities Youth Program awards), which recognizes the best after-school programs in the arts and humanities.\n\n"}
{"id": "54487332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54487332", "title": "The Exploits of the Incomparable Mulla Nasrudin", "text": "The Exploits of the Incomparable Mulla Nasrudin\n\nThe Exploits of the Incomparable Mulla Nasrudin is a book by the writer Idries Shah, It consists of jokes and anecdotes involving the wise fool of Middle Eastern folklore, Mulla Nasrudin. Published by Octagon Press in 1966, the book was re-released in paperback, ebook and audiobook editions by The Idries Shah Foundation in 2014 and 2015.\n\nShortly before he died, Shah stated that his books form a complete course that could fulfil the function he had fulfilled while alive. As such, \"The Exploits of the Incomparable Mulla Nasrudin\" can be read as part of a whole course of study.\n\nPart of a series of books, \"The Exploits of the Incomparable Mulla Nasrudin\" is a collection of anecdotes and jokes drawn from Middle Eastern folklore and the Sufi mystical tradition, which feature the populist Middle Eastern philosopher and wise fool, Mulla Nasrudin.\n\nThousands of stories have been written around this popular folk character over the centuries, since his purported birth in the 13th century in what is now modern Turkey.\n\nMasters in the Sufi mystical tradition have used these anecdotes and jokes as teaching stories, as part of their pupils' training in wisdom.\n\nThe animator, Richard Williams illustrated the original series of Nasrudin books, and also created a film animation featuring the character, titled \"The Thief and the Cobbler\", which was produced by Idries Shah's brother, Omar Ali-Shah. Unfortunately, this film was taken away from Williams before he had a chance to complete it.\n\nIn an article in the \"Los Angeles Review of Books\", writer John Zada uses the Sufi materials, including some of the Nasrudin tales, to explain developments in the contemporary world, such as the rise of Islamist fundamentalism under ISIS and the rise of Donald Trump. Zada is of the opinion that we need the Sufis' moderate and flexible thinking to counter polemics and fanaticism in all its forms.\n\nNote: ISBNs refer to the original paperback editions, published by Octagon Press. For current ISBNs, see The Idries Shah Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "10760729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10760729", "title": "The Express", "text": "The Express\n\nThe Express (also known as The Express: The Ernie Davis Story) is a 2008 American sports film produced by John Davis and directed by Gary Fleder. The storyline was conceived from a screenplay written by Charles Leavitt from a book titled \"Ernie Davis: The Elmira Express\", authored by Robert C. Gallagher. The film is based on the life of Syracuse University football player Ernie Davis, the first African American to win the Heisman Trophy, portrayed by actor Rob Brown. \"The Express\" explores civil rights topics, such as racism, discrimination and athletics.\n\nThe film was a co-production between the film studios of Relativity Media and Davis Entertainment. It was commercially distributed by Universal Pictures theatrically, and by Universal Studios Home Entertainment for home media. Dennis Quaid and Charles S. Dutton star in principal supporting roles. The original motion picture soundtrack with a musical score composed by Mark Isham, was released by the Lakeshore Records label on October 28, 2008.\n\n\"The Express\" premiered in theaters nationwide in the United States on October 10, 2008. Despite receiving generally positive reviews from critics, the film was a box office bomb, grossing just $9.8 million against its $40 million budget. The Blu-ray version of the film, featuring deleted scenes and the director's commentary was released on January 20, 2009.\n\nErnie Davis (Rob Brown) is a young African American growing up in Pennsylvania with his same-age uncle Will Davis Jr. (Nelsan Ellis), in the late 1940s during a time of racism and discrimination. Davis lives with his extended family, including his grandfather, Willie 'Pops' Davis (Charles S. Dutton), who guides and educates him. Davis' mother, Marie Davis (Aunjanue Ellis), eventually returns to their residence to inform the family that she has remarried and can now afford to raise Ernie at her own home in Elmira, New York. Upon relocating to Elmira, Davis enrolls in a Small Fry Football League and excels on the field as a running back.\n\nSeveral years later, Syracuse University football head coach Ben Schwartzwalder (Dennis Quaid) searches for a running back to address the absence of Jim Brown (Darrin Dewitt Henson), the graduating player completing his All-American senior season. Schwartzwalder is impressed with Davis after viewing footage of him playing for Elmira Free Academy. Schwartzwalder convinces Brown to accompany him on a recruiting visit to see Davis and his family in hopes of luring him to sign with Syracuse. After their visit, Davis decides to enroll at Syracuse and spurns the recruiting efforts of other colleges.\n\nAt the start of the 1959 college football season, Davis immediately excels playing for the varsity team, to lead Syracuse to victories over several college football teams. After Syracuse defeats UCLA to conclude the regular season undefeated, the team decides by choice to play the 2nd ranked Texas Longhorns in the Cotton Bowl Classic. During the game on January 1, 1960, Davis boldly attempts to lead his team to victory but is hampered by an injured leg and biased officiating. Towards the end of the game, Davis scores a crucial touchdown to preserve a Syracuse lead. The matchup concludes with a victory for Syracuse, and its first national championship.\n\nIn 1961, Davis goes on to win the Heisman Trophy following his senior season in college. He later becomes a professional athlete in the National Football League and signs a contract with the Cleveland Browns. Later however, following a series of health concerns, Davis is taken to a hospital to undergo medical testing. During a routine practice session, team owner Art Modell (Saul Rubinek) informs Davis he will be unable to play the upcoming season due to his condition. Subsequently, Davis holds a press conference and announces he has been diagnosed with leukemia. The Cleveland Browns honor Ernie by allowing him to suit up in uniform and join the team while running out before a televised game.\n\nThe film's epilogue displays a series of graphics stating that Davis died on May 18, 1963 at the age of 23; while in condolence, President Kennedy expresses sympathy for Davis' fine character as a citizen and an athlete.\n\n\nThe premise of \"The Express\" is based on the true story of Ernie Davis, the charismatic athlete who became the first African American to win the Heisman Trophy, college football's greatest achievement. Excelling in high school football, Davis was later recruited by dozens of predominantly white universities. A local sports columnist dubbed him the \"Elmira Express\". Davis was told of his terminal illness, leukemia, during the summer of 1962. According to a saddened Art Modell, he said \"They told him as gently as they could that it was an incurable case of leukemia. It was awful, but the way he took it, it seemed like much more of a blow to me and his teammates than it was to him.\"\n\nFollowing the NFL draft which saw the Washington Redskins trade their pick of Davis to Cleveland for Hall of Fame running back Bobby Mitchell, Davis signed a $100,000 contract with the Browns. On May 16, 1963, Davis visited Cleveland Browns owner Art Modell. He promised to make a career comeback even though he looked terminally ill. Two days later on May 18, Davis died from the then-incurable disease. Fellow teammate and close friend John Brown, remembered him as a \"genuine gentle man as well as a gentleman.\" President John F. Kennedy called Davis \"an outstanding young man of great character\" and \"an inspiration to the young people of this country.\" The book titled \"Ernie Davis: The Elmira Express\", authored by writer Robert C. Gallagher, became the basis for the film.\n\nFilming began in April 2007 at Chicago area locations including Lane Technical High School, Amundsen High School, J. Sterling Morton West High School in Berwyn, Northwestern University in Evanston (at Ryan Field, the Northwestern Football stadium), Aurora, Mooseheart, the Illinois Railway Museum in Union, Hyde Park (at the former Windemere Hotel) and at Memorial Park and on Walnut Street and Olde Western Ave. in Blue Island. It concluded its fifty-three-day shoot at Syracuse University. Meticulous research was undertaken over several months to recreate the period uniforms and locations depicted, including the creation on film of several stadiums such as Archbold Stadium, that no longer exist. Existing buildings that were not on the Syracuse University campus had to be digitally removed from shots, such as the Carrier Dome.\n\nThe original motion picture soundtrack for \"The Express\" was released by the Lakeshore Records label on October 28, 2008. It features songs composed with considerable use of the violin, trombone and cello. The score for the film was orchestrated by Mark Isham. Michael Bauer edited the film's music. Original songs written by musical artists Vaughn Horton, Frankie Miller, Ralph Bass, Ray Charles, and Lonnie Brooks, among others, were used in-between dialogue shots throughout the film.\n\nJournalists and film critics noted that a scene of \"racist vitriol\" involving the October 24, 1959 game between Syracuse and West Virginia University was fictitious and, as \"Film Journal International\" critic Frank Lovece noted, \"veers remarkably toward outright slander.\" He further points out that the game was \"falsely shown as taking place at WVU's Mountaineer Field\" in Morgantown, West Virginia, \"rather than at Syracuse's own Archbold Stadium,\" the Orangemen's home field at that time in New York state. Syracuse quarterback Dick Easterly, who played with Davis, said shortly after the movie's release, \"I don't blame people in West Virginia for being disturbed. The scene is completely fictitious.\"\n\nThe film suggests that Syracuse University had to win the 1960 Cotton Bowl to be named college football's national champion, when in fact the selection was made at the end of the regular season. This practice did not change until the late-60's.\n\nBobby Lackey, quarterback for the 1959 Texas Longhorns, stated in 2008 that the racial tensions and Longhorn behavior depicted in the New Year's Day 1960 Cotton Bowl Classic were made-up \"stories to try and sell more movie tickets,\" and justifies the action of his roommate, Larry Stephens, as just \"trying to get the guy (Davis) into a fight so he could get him thrown out of the game because their athletes were so much better than ours.\" However, John Brown, a black offensive tackle for Syracuse, stated that there were \"guys who called us racist names on the field,\" including a Texas lineman who kept calling him \"a big black dirty [expletive].\" Brown says that the player has since apologized and that he has forgiven the player. Additionally, Al Baker, Syracuse's black fullback, said after the game, \"Oh, they were bad. One of them spit in my face as I carried the ball through the line.\" Patrick Whelan and Dick Easterly, both white players for Syracuse, said that although the film may have fictionalized parts of the story, the 1960 Cotton Bowl Classic was the team's worst confrontation with racism.\n\nOther inaccuracies are more along the line of the discrepancies in any fictionalized depiction of historical events. For example, the film places the 1959 Penn State game in the first three of Syracuse's season, with Syracuse winning 32-6, when it was actually the seventh game and Syracuse had their toughest challenge of the season, winning a close 20-18 game to advance to a 7-0 record. The order of scoring in the 1960 Cotton Bowl Classic was adjusted in the film for dramatic tension.\n\nArt Modell is shown giving Jim Brown his first Cleveland Browns jersey in a photo op, but Modell did not purchase the Browns until four years after Brown joined the team. The scene in which Washington Redskins owner George Preston Marshall and Modell arrange a major trade was actually made by Browns coach and general manager Paul Brown behind Modell's back, adding to the tension between the two.\n\nOn review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 61% based on 114 reviews, with an average rating of 6.2/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"This inspirational sports biopic set in the civil rights era is interesting even for non-football fans, and features a great performance by Dennis Quaid as tough-but-fair football coach.\" At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average to reviews, the film received a score of 58 based on 27 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nRoger Ebert wrote: \"\"The Express\" is involving and inspiring in the way a good movie about sports almost always is. The formula is basic and durable, and when you hitch it to a good story, you can hardly fail. Gary Fleder does more than that in telling the story of Ernie Davis (\"The Elmira Express\"), the running back for Syracuse who became the first African-American to win the Heisman Trophy, in 1961.\" Jim Lane, writing in the \"Sacramento News & Review\", said of actor Brown, \"the 16-year-old newcomer held his own with Sean Connery; here, he carries the film in partnership with Dennis Quaid\". Impressed, he exclaimed, \"The film is predictable but inspiring, without going overboard into Brian’s Song tear-jerking. Fleder (expertly assisted by cinematographer Kramer Morgenthau and editors Padraic McKinley and William Steinkamp) ices the cake with some first-rate game footage.\" Roger Ebert in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" called it \"special\" while remarking, \"There is a lot of football in the movie. It's well presented, but there is the usual oddity that it almost entirely shows mostly success.\" \n\nIn the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", Peter Hartlaub wrote that the film \"deserves plenty of credit for abandoning the \"\"Remember the Titans\"/\"Glory Road\"\" school of screenwriting as laid out above and exploring the racial issues in Davis' story in more realistic terms.\" He thought Quaid gave a \"memorable performance\" by portraying Schwartzwalder as \"sort of an accidental civil rights hero.\" Mike Clark of \"USA Today\", said the film was \"an entertaining race-laced contest of wills\". He found the football scenes filled with \"kinetic\" energy, and the lead performances to be \"appealing\". The film however, was not without its detractors. Peter Rainer of \"The Christian Science Monitor\", believed the film was a \"compendium of virtually every sports movie cliché ever contrived\" and that the storyline was \"milked for every drop of inspirational uplift.\" Left equally unimpressed was Anthony Quinn of \"The Independent\". Commenting on the segregational history, he said \"we have to suffer apologetic non-dramas like this, the story of a fleet-footed black footballer (Rob Brown) who hits the big time just as his racial conscience starts to bother him\". He thought the screenplay was \"stewed in such pieties, served up as warm and homely as apple pie – only there's no taste to it.\" Graham Killeen of the \"Milwaukee Journal Sentinel\", added to the negativity by saying, \"Producer John Davis (\"The Firm\", \"Behind Enemy Lines\"), no relation to Ernie, and director Gary Fleder (\"Kiss the Girls, Don't Say a Word\") are masters of the predictable, the safe and the bland. And Davis' story doesn't play to their strengths.\" He ultimately called the film \"an all-brawn, no-brain pigskin potboiler\".\n\nWriting for the \"Boston Herald\", Stephen Schaefer said the subject matter was \"paean to a supremely talented if largely unfamiliar sports hero, one which scores both on and off the field.\" James Berardinelli writing for \"ReelViews\", called the film \"an engaging and at times powerful tale of one individual's struggle against the system\" and noted that \"as a story of courage and inspiration, this works as well as any sports-related bio-pic.\" Berardinelli also thought that although Ernie's depiction of \"on-field accomplishments were extraordinary, it was the environment in which he struggled to achieve them that makes him the worthy subject of a motion picture.\" Describing some pitfalls, Wesley Morris of \"The Boston Globe\" said the film was \"especially egregious since it bundles the civil rights era, garden-variety bigotry, and the achievements of Ernie Davis\". He didn't believe Davis was \"as bland as \"The Express\" makes him out to be. Aside from managing to get made at all, the movie doesn't do Davis's legacy any favors by giving us the store-brand version of his life.\" Morris however, was quick to admit \"There is so much ripe material here for a socially or historically curious movie.\" But he frustratingly noted that the filmmakers were more interested in \"making a safely commercial football drama that doesn't deviate from the genre's shorthand imagery and plot points.\"\nAnn Hornaday of \"The Washington Post\", stated that \"The Express\" \"finesses a cinematic hat trick: It's entertaining, deeply moving and genuinely important.\" She praised the individual cinematic elements saying the motion picture was \"Filmed with pulverizing accuracy, they bristle not only with physical action but also historical and political symbolism.\" She also complimented the lead acting by mentioning, \"As warm as Brown's portrayal of Davis is, it's Dennis Quaid as Syracuse coach Ben Schwartzwalder who provides the movie's most fascinating figure.\" Similarly, John Anderson wrote in \"Variety\" that the film was \"a muscular movie with social conscience that portrays Ernie Davis – the first African-American collegian to win college football's coveted Heisman Trophy – as the heir to Martin Luther King and Jackie Robinson.\" On its production merits, he commented how the film displayed \"Terrific editing by William Steinkamp and Padraic McKinley\" which \"intermarries the onfield action, flashbacks to Davis' Southern boyhood, a smattering of period footage and a great deal of stylized visualization to a degree that distracts from the very basic sports-movie arc of the story\". However, on a negative front in \"The Village Voice\", Robert Wilonsky was not moved by the lead acting of Quaid or Brown. He thought Brown portrayed Davis with \"quiet subtlety (to the point where he almost disappears in some scenes)\" and felt Quaid was \"stuck with the thankless role of accidental civil-rights pioneer\". He summed up his disappointment stating, \"like all formulaic biopics, \"The Express\" sacrifices the details for the Big Picture—hagiography without the humanity (wait, is that his girlfriend? Wife? What?), populated by sorta-enlightened Yankees, rabidly racist Southerners, and a ghost who remains as elusive as the running back no defender could ever catch.\"\n\nThe film premiered in cinemas on October 10, 2008 in wide release throughout the U.S.. During its opening weekend, the film opened in a distant 6th place grossing $4,562,675 in business showing at 2,808 locations. The film \"Beverly Hills Chihuahua\" soundly beat its competition during that weekend opening in first place with $17,502,077. The film's revenue dropped by 52% in its second week of release, earning $2,191,810. For that particular weekend, the film fell to 12th place screening in 2,810 theaters but not challenging a top ten position. The film \"Max Payne\", unseated \"Beverly Hills Chihuahua\" to open in first place grossing $17,639,849 in box office revenue. During its final week in release, \"The Express\" opened in 31st place grossing $151,225 in business. The film went on to top out domestically at $9,793,406 in total ticket sales through a 4-week theatrical run. Internationally, the film took in an additional $14,718 in box office business for a combined worldwide total of $9,808,124. For 2008 as a whole, the film would cumulatively rank at a box office performance position of 146.\n\nFollowing its cinematic release in theaters, the Region 1 code widescreen edition of the film was released on DVD in the United States on January 20, 2009. Special features for the DVD include; deleted scenes with optional commentary by director Gary Fleder; \"Making of \"The Express\"\"; \"Making History: The Story of Ernie Davis\"; \"Inside the Playbook: Shooting the Football Games\"; \"From Hollywood to Syracuse: The Legacy of Ernie Davis\"; and feature commentary with director Gary Fleder. During its release in the home media market, \"The Express\" ranked number eleven in its first week on the DVD charts, selling 97,511 units totalling $1,949,245 in business. Overall, \"The Express\" sold 370,534 units yielding $6,566,801 in revenue.\n\nThe widescreen high-definition Blu-ray Disc version of the film was also released on January 20, 2009. Special features include \"Making of \"The Express\"\"; \"Making History: The Story of Ernie Davis\"; \"Inside the Playbook: Shooting the Football Games\"; \"From Hollywood to Syracuse: The Legacy of Ernie Davis\"; \"50th Anniversary of the 1959 Syracuse National Championship\"; and deleted scenes with optional commentary by director Gary Fleder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51476650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51476650", "title": "The Nest of the Turtledove", "text": "The Nest of the Turtledove\n\nThe Nest of the Turtledove () is a 2016 Ukrainian drama film directed by Taras Tkachenko. It was named as one of three films shortlisted as the Ukrainian submission for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, but it was not selected.\n\n"}
{"id": "26482967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26482967", "title": "World Indigenous Television Broadcasters Network", "text": "World Indigenous Television Broadcasters Network\n\nThe World Indigenous Television Broadcasters Network (WITBN) is a confederation of 10 broadcasting organisations from 19 countries. Members are radio and television companies, most of which are government-owned public service broadcasters or privately owned stations with public missions.\n\n\n"}
