{"id": "53129619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53129619", "title": "20th National Geographic Bee", "text": "20th National Geographic Bee\n\nThe 20th National Geographic Bee was held in Washington, D.C. on May 21, 2008, sponsored by the National Geographic Society. The final competition was moderated by Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek. The winner was Akshay Rajagopal of Lincoln, Nebraska, who won a $25,000 college scholarship and lifetime membership in the National Geographic Society. The 2nd-place winner, Hunter Bledsoe of Alabama, won a $15,000 scholarship. The 3rd-place winner, William Lee of Joyce Middle School in Woburn, Massachusetts, won a $10,000 scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "3033365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3033365", "title": "744 Aguntina", "text": "744 Aguntina\n\n744 Aguntina, provisional designation 1913 QW, is a rare-type carbonaceous asteroid from the outer region of the asteroid belt, about 60 kilometers in diameter. It was discovered by Austrian astronomer Joseph Rheden at Vienna Observatory, Austria, on 26 February 1913.\n\nThe dark F-type asteroid, classified as a FX-subtype in the Tholen taxonomic scheme, orbits the Sun at a distance of 2.8–3.5 AU once every 5 years and 8 months (2,062 days). Its orbit is tilted by 8 degrees to the plane of the ecliptic and shows an eccentricity of 0.12.\n\nPhotometric observations during 2003 showed a rotation period of hours with a brightness variation of in magnitude. The period has since been confirmed by an additional observation. According to the surveys carried out by the Infrared Astronomical Satellite, IRAS, the Japanese Akari satellite, and the U.S. Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer with its subsequent NEOWISE mission, the asteroid's surface has a very low albedo between 0.03 and 0.05 and a diameter estimate that varies between 55 and 68 kilometers.\n\nThe minor planet was named for the ancient Roman town, Aguntum, in the Noricum province of the Roman Empire, in what is nowadays mostly Austria. The naming information was given by the discoverer's widow, who was also the daughter of prolific astronomer Johann Palisa. The historic ruins are located close to Lienz in East Tyrol, the home town of the discoverer. In 1912, shortly before the minor planet's discovery, extensive excavations took place at the Roman site which unearthed coins, pottery masks, bronze objects, and painted tombstones.\n\n"}
{"id": "1961920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961920", "title": "Alexander Maconochie (penal reformer)", "text": "Alexander Maconochie (penal reformer)\n\nAlexander Maconochie (11 February 1787 – 25 October 1860) was a Scottish naval officer, geographer, and penal reformer.\n\nIn 1840, Maconochie became the Governor of Norfolk Island, a prison island where convicts were treated with severe brutality and were seen as lost causes. Upon reaching the island, Maconochie immediately instituted policies that restored dignity to prisoners, achieving remarkable success in prisoner rehabilitation. These policies were well in advance of their time and Maconochie was politically undermined. His ideas would be largely ignored and forgotten, only to be readopted as the basis of modern penal systems over a century later in the mid to late 20th century.\n\nMaconochie was born in Edinburgh on 11 February 1787. At the age of 9, his father died and he was raised by Allan Maconochie, later Lord Meadowbank.\n\nHe joined the Royal Navy in 1803 and as a midshipman saw active service in the Napoleonic Wars, rising to the rank of Lieutenant. In 1811 he was serving on the Brig HMS Grasshopper, which was captured Christmas Eve off the coast of the Dutch Coast. He was taken as a prisoner of war and was released upon Napoleon's abdication in 1814. He returned to active service in the British-American War where he commanded HMS Calliope. In 1815, he was promoted to the rank of Commander.\n\nIn the peace following the final defeat of Napoleon, Maconochie spent 13 years in Edinburgh studying geography and geopolitics. At this time he wrote extensively on steam navigation and the colonisation of the Pacific. He married in 1822. In 1828 he moved to London, England where he was a founder and first secretary of the Royal Geographical Society in 1830. In 1833 he became the first professor of Geography at the University College London, and was a knight of the Royal Guelphic Order.\n\nIn 1836 he sailed to the convict settlement at Hobart in Van Diemen's Land (now Tasmania) as private secretary to the Lieutenant-Governor Sir John Franklin. Here he wrote a report strongly critical of the state of prison discipline. The convict system, being fixated on punishment alone, released back into society crushed, resentful and bitter expirees, in whom the spark of enterprise and hope was dead. Maconochie's report “can be said to mark the peak and incipient decline of transportation to Australia” when it was given to Lord Russell, the Home Secretary and ardent critic of transportation, claims Robert Hughes. Although this report was used by the Molesworth Committee on transportation in 1837-38, the criticism of this work forced Franklin to dismiss him.\n\nAccording to his biographer John Barry, Maconochie “was a deeply religious man, of generous and compassionate temperament, and convinced of the dignity of man.” His two basic principles of penology were that:\n\nFollowing the Molesworth committee's report, transportation to New South Wales was abolished in 1840, although it continued to other colonies. Disturbed at reports of conditions on Norfolk Island, Lord Normanby, Secretary of State for the Colonies, suggested that a new system should be used, and the superintendence given to an officer deeply concerned with the moral welfare of the convicts. Maconochie was recommended to put this new system in place.\n\nIn March 1840 he took up duties as commandant of the penal settlement at Norfolk Island and applied his penal principles. Convicts were awarded 'marks' to encourage effort and thrift. Sentences were served in stages, each increasing in responsibility. Cruel punishments and degrading conditions were reduced, and convicts' sense of dignity was respected. Perhaps the fact that he was the only commandant to have experienced the life of a prisoner himself, played a part in his approach to his task.\n\nThese views contrasted greatly with the cruel conditions that had existed on Norfolk Island prior to Maconochie's arrival. He was not permitted to apply his principles to the 1,200 hardened twice-sentenced convicts, but only to the 600 newcomers sent directly from the United Kingdom and who were separated from the 'Old Hands'. His 'mark' system was not permitted to reduce a convict's sentence, and it was difficult to find other incentives. His reforms were resisted by military guards, supervisors and constables (many of whom were ex-convicts) at his command. In particular, his deputy held views opposite to his own. In an exclusively male environment, he found he was unable to reduce the 'unnatural offence' of sodomy which was prevalent and which he continued to punish by flogging. Criticism of his methods in Sydney and England led Governor Sir George Gipps to visit the island in 1843. He was favourably impressed with the condition of the convicts and the effectiveness of the 'marks' system, and reported that Maconochie's System of Moral Reform could work if carried through to its conclusion. However the order had already been given in the United Kingdom for Maconochie to be replaced. Under the commandants who followed him, Norfolk Island reverted to being an object of terror under brutal masters.\n\nAlmost 1,400 convicts had been discharged during Maconochie's term, and he always claimed that a high percentage did not offend again. He is known as the \"Father of Parole\".\n\nMaconochie returned to the UK in 1844 and two years later published a book outlining his system. This had an immense influence on the development of penology. In 1849 he was appointed governor of the new prison at Birmingham, but was dismissed and criticised for his actions, in spite of being praised for his humanity and benevolence.\n\nHe died on 25 October 1860 at Morden in Surrey, still campaigning for penal reform in spite of ill-health. He was buried at St Lawrence Church, London Road, Morden, Surrey. His grave can still be seen in the Churchyard.\n\nJohn Barry states that “Maconochie was a pioneer in penal reform, and suffered the fate of men in advance of their times. His concepts and many of his practical measures are now the basis of Western penal systems.”\n\nThe Alexander Maconochie Centre, a prison in Canberra, is named in his honour.\n\nSir Walter Frederick Crofton (1815–1897) introduced a variant of the ‘progressive stages’ system of penal discipline into the Irish convict prisons.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44304800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44304800", "title": "Amazon biome", "text": "Amazon biome\n\nThe Amazon biome () contains the Amazon rainforest, an area of tropical rainforest, and other ecoregions that cover most of the Amazon basin and some adjacent areas to the north and east. The biome contains blackwater and whitewater flooded forest, lowland and montane terra firme forest, bamboo and palm forest, savanna, sandy heath and alpine tundra. Some areas are threatened by deforestation for timber and to make way for pasture or soybean plantations.\n\nThe Amazon biome has an area of .\nThe biome roughly corresponds to the Amazon basin, but excludes areas of the Andes to the west and cerrado (savannah) to the south, and includes lands to the northeast extending to the Atlantic ocean with similar vegetation to the Amazon basin.\nJ. J. Morrone (2006) defines the Amazonian subregion in this broader sense, divided into the biogeographical provinces of Guyana, Humid Guyana, Napo, Imeri, Roraima, Amapá, Várzea, Ucayali, Madeira, Tapajós-Xingu, Pará, Yungas and Pantanal.\nThe World Wildlife Fund takes a similar scope, where the Amazon biome includes the Guiana Shield rain forests in the north and the Chiquitano dry forests of Bolivia.\n\nThe biome covers parts of Brazil, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana.\nIn Brazil the biome covers more than and covers all or parts of the states of Acre, Amazonas, Roraima, Rondônia, Pará, Amapá, Maranhão, Tocantins and Mato Grosso.\nThe Amazon biome covers 49.29% of Brazil.\n16% of the biome is in Peru.\nAs of 2015 about 23.4% of Peru's Amazon biome was protected, but of this less than half was fully protected.\n\nMuch of the terrain of the Amazon biome, particularly around the rivers, is lowland plains.\nThe Guiana Shield is an area of highlands along the border between Brazil and Venezuela and Guyana.\nThe southern Amazonian highlands cross parts of Rondonia and Mato Grosso and the southern parts of Amazonas and Para.\n\nThe Amazon basin is crossed by ridges or \"paleoarches\" that connect the Guiana and Brazilian shields and divide it into geological sub-basins.\nThey are the Iquitos or Jutai Arch in Peru and Acre, the Carauari Arch across the Rio Negro and Solimões, the Purus Arch to the west of Manaus, the Monte Alegre Arch to the west of the Tapajós and the Gurupa Arch to the west of Marajó. \nUnder the Paleoarch model, paleobasins between the arches form centers for biological diversification.\nThus the Iquitos arch is considered the main reason for the different species of frogs and rodents and different forest types on either side of the ridge.\n\nThe soil is generally very poor in nutrients, and areas that have been deforested often are unsuitable for agriculture or pasture.\nThere are wide regional variations in soil types.\nThus 20% of the Rio Negro basin is covered by podzols and 55% by acrisols and ferralsols, with the remainder covered by alluvial and litholic soils and scattered areas of hydromorphic plinthosols.\nIn the biome as a whole podzols cover just , or 2.7% of the area.\n\nIn Brazil the average temperature of the biome is and average rainfall is , but there are wide variations from one region to another.\nThe biome as a whole has annual rainfall from , about half of which is carried by winds from the Atlantic, and the other half from evapotranspiration within the biome.\nThere are wide variations in total rainfall and distribution of rainfall throughout the year.\n\nThe Amazon watershed covers about .\nThe Amazon River accounts for 15–16% of the total water discharged by rivers into the oceans of the world.\nRivers may be blackwater, whitewater or clearwater.\nThus the Rio Negro (\"Black River\") has clear, jet-black water caused by decomposition of organic matter in swamps along its margins, combined with low levels of silt.\nThe Rio Branco (\"White River\") and the Amazon itself have yellowish waters loaded with silt.\nThe Tahuayo River in the Tamshiyacu Tahuayo Regional Conservation Area of Peru is classed as a blackwater river, but often has similar chemistry to the whitewater rivers of the region since it is in the Amazon River floodplain, and receives water from the Amazon.\n\nThe Amazon and its major tributaries such as the Xingu, Tapajós, Madeira, Purus and Rio Negro form barriers to the geodispersal of plants, animals and even insects. Thus the white-fronted capuchin (\"Cebus albifrons\") and hairy saki (\"Pithecia hirsuta\") are found west of the Tapajós, while the white-nosed saki (\"Chiropotes albinasus\") is only found east of the river.\nThe World Wildlife Fund divides the biome into ecoregions, often defined as the regions lying between major tributaries of the Amazon.\n\nMost of the interior of the Amazon basin is covered by rainforest.\nThe dense tropical Amazon rainforest is the largest tropical rainforest in the world.\nIt covers between of the Amazon biome.\nThe somewhat vague numbers are because the rainforest merges into similar biomes across its boundaries.\nThe rainforest is Tropical Broadleaf Forest, so-called because most of the trees have broad leaves.\nThe basin also holds flooded riparian forest or várzea, seasonal forest and savanna. \nSeasonal forest covers much of the southeast border, with marked dry seasons when there are frequent fires.\nThe Amazon biome contains areas of other types of vegetation including grasslands, swamps, bamboos, and palm forests.\n\nThere are 53 major ecosystems and more than 600 types of land and freshwater habitat.\nOf the ecosystems, 34 are forest areas covering 78% of the biome, 6 are Andean covering 1.5%, 5 are floodplains covering 5.83%, 5 are savanna covering 12.75% and two are tropical steppes covering 1.89%.\nThe Brazilian Amazon holds 30 of the 53 ecosystems, of which 19 are forests with 77.5% of the area.\nThe borders of the biome hold ecotones where it blends into other biomes such as the cerrado.\n\nWithin and across the ecosystems of the biome there is huge biological diversity.\nOne source says there are an estimated 60,000 plant species, of which 30,000 are endemic.\nAnother says there are 30,000 to 50,000 plant species.\nThe Brazilian Ministry of the Environment as of January 2013 listed 2,500 species of trees and 30,000 species of plants.\nThere are 1,400 species of fish, 163 amphibians, 387 reptiles and more than 500 mammals including 90 primates.\n87% of the amphibians, 62% of reptiles, 20% of birds and 25% of mammals are endemic to the biome.\n109 species of lizards and amphisbaena reptiles are known to be present, and 138 species of snakes.\nOf the 1,300 bird species 20% are endemic and 8.4% are endangered.\n\nA relatively small area may contain a variety of ecoregions.\nThus the Pico da Neblina National Park in the north of Amazonas, Brazil contains campinarana, dense rainforest and contact between campinarana and rainforest.\nThe vegetation formations include terra firme forests and igapós.\nSubmontane forests climb the first steps of the Guiana Plateau to about , followed by montane forests.\nLichens and bromeliads are found up to .\nThere is also alpine tundra in the tabular plateaus.\n\nThe Amazon basin contains several large areas of moist forest, collectively called the Amazon rainforest.\nThese are the Caquetá, Japurá-Solimões-Negro, Juruá-Purus, Madeira-Tapajós, Napo, Purus-Madeira, Solimões-Japurá, Southwest Amazon, Tapajós-Xingu, Tocantins-Pindara, Uatuma-Trombetas, Ucayali and Xingu-Tocantins-Araguaia moist forests.\nEach has distinctive vegetation.\nIn the broad definition favored by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) the Amazon biome would also include the Tepuis, table-top mountains with unique vegetation, the Negro-Branco, Guianan Highlands, Guianan piedmont and lowland and Guianan moist forests and the Guianan savanna.\n\nIn the southwest Amazon at least of forest are dominated by bamboos.\nThese occur in areas where there has been recent tectonic uplift combined with fast mechanical erosion and poor drainage.\nIn each patch of bamboos all the plants flower every 27–28 years, produced huge numbers of seeds, before dying.\nThe Chandless State Park is in the centre of the bamboo forest region of the south western Amazon biome, and has three endemic species of the Guadua genus of bamboo. \nVegetation is classified as forest with palms, forest with bamboo, alluvial forest with bamboo and dense forest.\n\nBefore Ghillean Prance's 1979 study, the local people and many scientists called the permanently waterlogged swamp on the lower Amazon \"igapó\" and all types of periodically flooded land \"várzea\".\nA more recent definition, from Prance, is:\n\nMajor flooded areas include the Iquitos, Purus, Monte Alegre, Gurupa and Marajó várzeas.\nThe Majaró várzea is at the mouth of the Amazon and is affected by both freshwater and tidal flows.\n\nCampina is open forest on sandy soil where sunlight can reach the ground.\nMore than half the species of orchid in the Amazon lowlands are found in this type of forest.\nThe terms campina and campinarana both describe white sand savannas that are very poor in nutrients.\nThey may be flooded periodically or seasonally, in which case the roots suffer from lack of aeration.\nThe vegetation is stunted.\nFor some, \"campina\" is distinguished as being completely treeless.\nThe term \"campinarana\" is used for the transition between \"campina\" and the rainforest.\n\nCampinarana is found in isolated areas of the Rio Negro and Rio Branco basins in the north of Brazil.\nPatches of campinarana, which may cover several thousand square kilometres, are found in the transitional region from the Guyana Shield to the Amazon basin.\nCampinarana is typically found on leached white sands around circular swampy depressions in lowland tropical moist forest.\nThe soil is low in nutrients, with highly acidic humus.\nCampinarana includes savannah, scrub and forests.\nThe savannah is mainly composed of grasses and lichens, found in the wet plains beside lakes and rivers.\nThe scrub has bare sand, herbaceous plants, shrubs and trees less than high.\n\nThe nutrient-poor Japurá-Solimões-Negro moist forest is similar to the Rio Negro Campinarana.\n\nThe Northeastern Brazil restingas are coastal dune habitats that extend along the coast of northeastern Brazil, interspersed with lagoons, mangroves and patches of caatinga savanna.\nThe land behind the dunes may include dwarf palms, bromeliads, ferns, shrubs, grasses and scrub trees.\nThe more exposed areas mainly hold medium-tall grasses and scrub trees, while sheltered areas hold patches of cactus and low dry thicket.\nFauna include marmosets and jaguarundis, proboscis bats, lesser sac-winged bats, bulldog bats, and Davy's naked-backed bats, wood stork, roseate spoonbill, white-necked heron, great egret, cattle egret, black-crowned night heron, and Neotropic cormorant.\nThe ecoregion has various endemic species.\nThe Lençóis Maranhenses National Park protects a large area of this habitat.\n\nOf the 1,149 federal and state protected areas in Brazil in 2014, 247 covering were in the Amazon biome and accounted for 73% of the total area protected at the federal and state levels in Brazil.\nFederal units covered and state units covered .\nThese included fully protected national and state parks (22%), ecological stations (9%), biological reserves (4%) and wildlife refuges as well as sustainable use national and state forests (26%), environmental protection areas (17%), extractive reserves (12%), sustainable development reserves (10%),and areas of ecological interest.\nMore than of the Brazilian Amazon biome was deforested in 2008–12, of which only 6% took place within protected areas.\n71% of federal and state protected areas in Brazil suffered no deforestation in this period.\n\nAlthough the World Economic Forum ranks Brazil first in the world in terms of nature tourism potential, the country is 52nd in tourism competitiveness when factors such as infrastructure are considered.\nLow public use, in part due to the inaccessibility of the Amazon national and federal parks, mean that they fail to support the local economies and therefore lack support from society, especially the local communities.\nThe national and state forests have low levels of formal sustainable logging contracts, the Tapajós National Forest in Pará being an exception.\nBrazil has strong systems for monitoring land cover and deforestation, but as of 2014 64% of managers of protected areas said they had not monitored biodiversity in the previous five years, and more than half said they did not have tools to monitor social and environmental development.\n\nThe \"Arc of Deforestation\" is in the eastern and southern borders of the biome.\nAs of 2006 about 16% of the Amazon biome in Brazil had been deforested.\nSatellite images show that in the 2006–11 period total deforestation in the Amazon biome was , of which were in the three soy-producing states of Mato Grosso, Para and Rondonia.\nA 2009 survey showed that of 620 recently deforested areas 203, or 32%, had been converted to pasture while 12, or less than 1%, were being used for soybeans.\n\nThe biome is not the same as the Amazônia Legal, which covers a larger area of Brazil.\nThe Amazon biome covers about 82% of the Legal Amazon if cerrado and campinarana are excluded.\nDefenders of soybean farming point out that the soybean farms in the Amazonia Legal mostly occupy cerrado areas, not the Amazon biome.\nA statement by Cargill in 2006 said, \"Soy occupies less than 0.6 percent of the land in the Amazon biome today, and most of that soy is grown on the fringes of the Amazon biome in the transitional area between the \"Cerrado\" and the forest.\nA 2010 assessment of soybean farmers associated with the Grupo André Maggi found that 62.55% of the properties produced 78.09% of the crop in the cerrado biome, while 37.45% produced 21.91% of the crop in the Amazon biome.\n\nIn 2000 the Brazilian government banned creation of sugarcane plantations in the Amazon biome.\nIn 2010 a presidential decree made low-interest credit available to oil palm development, but only on land that had been deforested before 2008.\nThis may prove an environmentally sustainable economic solution.\n\n"}
{"id": "39735992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39735992", "title": "Arthur Powell Davis", "text": "Arthur Powell Davis\n\nArthur Powell Davis (February 9, 1861 – August 7, 1933) was an American hydrographer, engineer, geographer, topographer and nephew of John Wesley Powell. He was born on February 9, 1861, in Decatur, Illinois and received his Civil Engineering degree from George Washington University in 1888. Upon graduation he joined his uncle west on the US Geological Survey through New Mexico, Arizona, and California. He then worked in hydrography in places as far flung as China, Puerto Rico, Nicaragua, Panama, and Turkestan. In 1888 he co-founded the National Geographic Society, and in 1907 he was elected president of the Washington Society of Engineers. He served as the Director of the Reclamation Service (now the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation) from 1914 to 1923.\n\nBoulder Dam (later called Hoover Dam) was fundamentally the conception of Arthur Powell Davis. A month before he died, Arthur Powell Davis was appointed Consulting Engineer on the dam project. Mr. Davis had his vision back in 1902. He died in Oakland, California, on August 7, 1933, and is buried in St. Paul’s Rock Creek Cemetery in Washington, D.C., along with his wife, Elizabeth B. Davis. The Davis Dam is named after him. Arthur Davis brought more to his job than ambition. Like other progressive Republicans, he had deep faith in the role of experts (he himself held a degree in civil engineering), worshipped efficiency, and viewed the federal government as a major instrument for social and political reform.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1561589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561589", "title": "Bunce Island", "text": "Bunce Island\n\nBunce Island (also spelled \"Bence,\" \"Bense,\" or \"Bance\" at different periods) is an island in the Sierra Leone River. It is situated in Freetown Harbour, the estuary of the Rokel River and Port Loko Creek, about upriver from Sierra Leone's capital city Freetown. The island measures about by and houses a castle that was built by a British slave-trading company in c.1670. Tens of thousands of Africans were shipped from here to the North American colonies of South Carolina and Georgia to be forced into slavery, and are the ancestors of many African Americans of the United States.\n\nAlthough the island is small, its strategic position at the limit of navigation for ocean-going ships in Africa's largest natural harbour made it an ideal base for European slave traders. To mark the 2007–2008 bicentennial of Great Britain's abolition of the African slave trade, a team at James Madison University created a three-dimensional animation of the castle as it was in 1805, and an exhibit on the site that was displayed to museums all across the U.S. which is now held by the Sierra Leone National Museum.\n\nBunce Island was first settled and fortified by English slave traders in c. 1670. During its early history, the castle was operated by two London-based firms the Royal African Company and its offshoot, the Gambia Adventurers, the latter a \"Crown-chartered company\" or parastatal subsidised by the English government. The castle was not commercially successful but it served as a symbol of English influence in the region, where Portuguese slave traders had been established since the 1500s.\n\nThe early phase of the castle's history ended in 1728 when Bunce Island was raided by José Lopez da Moura, a Luso-African slave trader based in the area. He was the richest man in present-day territory of Sierra Leone, the grandson of a Mane king and part of the hybrid Luso-African community that had developed along the lower rivers. This class acted as middlemen, resisting efforts by the Royal African Company to monopolise trade with African rulers. Lopez led others in destroying the Bunce Island factory.\n\nBunce Island was abandoned until the mid-1740s. It was later operated by the London-based firm Grant, Oswald & Company, who took over in 1748. In 1785 Bunce and a number of other dependent islands were conveyed to the company of John and Alexander Anderson. Throughout the late 18th century, it was a highly profitable enterprise. During the second half of the 18th century, the companies sent thousands of African captives from Bunce Island to sales for plantations on the British- and French-controlled islands in the West Indies, and to Britain's North American colonies. The London-based owners grew wealthy from the castle's operations.\nThe slave traders who did business at Bunce Island came from a variety of backgrounds. During the castle's early history, Afro-Portuguese—part of what historian Ira Berlin described as the \"Atlantic Creole generation\"—sold slaves and local products there. They were well-established along the rivers near the coast and were descendants of male Portuguese slave traders known as \"lançados\" and African women, and were often bilingual. During the island's later history, Afro-English dynasties became established in communities along the West African coast, beginning in the 17th century. By 1800, there were about 12,000 Afro-English in this area. Mixed-race men from such families as the Caulkers, Tuckers and Clevelands sold slaves and traded goods at Bunce Island. Like the Portuguese descendants, they occupied a middle ground, often marrying into the upper classes of African tribes. The slave ships came from London, Liverpool and Bristol; from Newport, Rhode Island in the North American colonies; and from France and Denmark. They transported slaves mostly to British markets in the Caribbean and the American South.\n\nBunce Island was an important British commercial outpost and an attractive target during times of war. French naval forces attacked the castle four times (1695, 1704, 1779, and 1794), damaging or destroying it each time. The attack of 1779 took place during the American Revolutionary War when the rebel Continental Army's French allies took advantage of the conflict to attack British assets outside North America. Pirates, including Bartholomew Roberts or \"Black Bart\", the most notorious pirate of the 18th century, attacked in 1719 and 1720. The British traders rebuilt the castle after each attack, gradually altering its architecture during the roughly 140 years it was used as a slave trade entrepôt.\n\nBunce Island is best known as one of the chief processing points for slaves to be sold to planters in Lowcountry of the British colonies of South Carolina and Georgia, including the Sea Islands, where they developed extensive rice plantations. Rice requires a great deal of technical knowledge for its successful cultivation. South Carolina and Georgia planters were willing to pay premium prices for slave labour brought from what they called the \"Rice Coast\" of West Africa, the traditional rice-growing region stretching from what is now Senegal and Gambia in the north down to present-day Sierra Leone and Liberia in the south. Still, records of the port of Charleston show that nearly 40 percent of the slaves came from Angola.\n\nBunce Island was the largest British slave castle on the Rice Coast. African farmers with rice-growing skills were kidnapped from inland areas and sold at the castle or at one of its many \"outfactories\" (trading posts) along the coast before being transported to North America. Several thousand slaves from Bunce Island were taken to the ports of Charleston (South Carolina) and Savannah (Georgia) during the second half of the 18th century. Slave auction advertisements in those cities often announced slave cargoes arriving from \"Bance\" or \"Bense\" Island.\n\nColonist Henry Laurens served as Bunce Island's business agent in Charleston, and was a wealthy rice planter and slave dealer. He later was elected as President of the Continental Congress during the Revolutionary War, and was later appointed as the United States envoy to the Netherlands. Captured by the British en route to his post in Europe during the war, he was imprisoned in the Tower of London. After hostilities ended, he became one of the Peace Commissioners who negotiated United States independence under the Treaty of Paris. The chief negotiator on the British side was Richard Oswald, the principal owner of Bunce Island; he and Laurens had been friends for 30 years. The United States independence was negotiated in part between the British owner of Bunce Island and his American business agent in South Carolina, demonstrating the wealth and status achieved by these men by their trade in rice and slaves.\n\nBunce Island was also linked to the Northern colonies in America. Slave ships based in northern ports frequently called at Bunce Island, taking on supplies such as fresh water and provisions for the Atlantic crossing, and buying slaves for sale in the British islands of the West Indies and the Southern Colonies. The North American slave ships that called at Bunce Island were sailing out of Newport (Rhode Island), New London (Connecticut), Salem (Massachusetts), and New York City.\n\nIn 1787 British philanthropists involved with the Committee for the Relief of the Black Poor in London established Granville Town, a settlement for freed slaves on the Sierra Leone Peninsula, down-river from Bunce Island. This first attempt at colonisation was unsuccessful and in March 1792, the settlement of Freetown was founded as the basis for the second and only permanent Colony of Sierra Leone. The Atlantic slave trade continued to be legal for the next two decades. During that period, Bunce Island slave traders harassed the fledgling colony by inciting local African chiefs against it, organising trade boycotts to isolate it and, at one point kidnapping and selling some Freetown colonists whom they accused of stealing goods at the castle as slaves.\n\nIn 1807 the UK Parliament abolished the Atlantic slave trade. The following year Freetown became a Crown Colony and the Royal Navy based its Africa Squadron there. They sent regular patrols to search for slave vessels violating the ban. Bunce Island was shut down for slave-trading; British firms used the castle as a cotton plantation, a trading post and a sawmill. These activities were economically unsuccessful and the island was abandoned around 1840, after which the buildings and stone walls deteriorated.\n\n, substantial ruins stand on the northern end of the island. Bance Island House, the headquarters building where the Chief Agent lived with his senior officers, is at the centre of the castle. Parts of the building still rise to second-story level. Immediately behind it is the open-air slave yard, which is divided between a large area for men and a smaller one for women and children. Remnants of two watchtowers, a fortification with places for eight cannons, and a gunpowder magazine remain standing. Some of the cannons bear the royal cypher of King George III. At the south end of the island, several inscribed tombstones mark the graves of slave traders, slave ship captains, and the foreman of African workers.\n\nThree American scholars have researched Bunce Island. Anthropologist Joseph Opala's research linked the island to the Gullah people of the United States Low Country. He organised the Gullah \"homecomings\" portrayed in the documentary films: \"Family Across the Sea\" (1990), \"The Language You Cry In\" (1998), and the website, \"Priscilla’s Homecoming\" (2005). Historian David Hancock documented Bunce Island during the period of Grant, Oswald & Company in his study, \"Citizens of the World\" (1997). Archaeologist Christopher DeCorse and his team surveyed the island’s ruins for a report submitted to the Sierra Leone government (2006).\n\nIn 2006, television actor Isaiah Washington visited the island after learning through a DNA test he was descended from the indigenous Mende people of Sierra Leone. Washington later donated US$25,000 to a project to create a computer reconstruction of Bunce Island as it appeared in 1805, to mark the bicentenniel of the abolition of the African slave trade by the UK and the United States. A reconstructed slave ship was docked at the island.\n\nProject directors Joseph Opala and Gary Chatelain at James Madison University created a three-dimensional image of the castle using computer-aided design and historic drawings. It is part of an exhibit portraying the island's history and depicts the buildings as they appeared 200 years ago. A travelling exhibit on the history of Bunce Island is available in the US and UK, and the full exhibit is on permanent display at the Sierra Leone National Museum in Freetown.\n\nEvidence of numerous historical and genealogical links between Bunce Island and the United States has been found. In 2013 historians reported learning that two U.S. presidents, George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush, are directly descended from a slave-ship captain who operated out of Bunce Island and other ports in the Sierra Leone region in the late 1700s. Their ancestor Thomas Walker (AKA \"Beau Walker\") came from Bristol, one of Britain's principal slaving ports. Walker was involved in 11 slaving expeditions; he immigrated with his fortune to the US, where he became naturalised in 1792. One of his descendants, Dorothy (Walker) Bush, was the mother of George H.W. Bush.\n\nIn 1948, Bunce Island was designated Sierra Leone's first officially protected historic site. The same year, Sierra Leonean amateur historian and medical doctor M.C.F. Easmon led an expedition that cleared the vegetation, mapped the ruins and photographed them for the first time. Research at the island has been underway since the 1970s. A hurricane struck in 1974, damaging structures.\n\nIn 1989, a group of Gullahs from the United States made a visit to Sierra Leone and toured the island's ruins. Shortly after that, the U.S. National Park Service announced a preservation program for the castle in coordination with the Sierra Leone government. Plans were delayed by the lengthy Sierra Leone Civil War. African Americans visited the site in 1997 and 2005, which were documented as public history projects.\n\nBunce Island is now protected by the Sierra Leonean Monuments and Relics Commission, a branch of the country's Ministry of Tourism and Culture. The government is working to preserve the castle as an important historic site and as a destination for tourists, especially African Americans. Bunce Island has been called \"the most important historic site in Africa for the United States\" because thousands of slaves were shipped from here to ports in the American South. Gorée Island in Senegal has become better known than Bunce and has attracted African-American tourists and support for preservation since the 1980s.\n\nThe U.S. National Park Service team that surveyed the castle in 1989 suggested stabilising the ruins and recommended the installation of all-weather displays of the buildings' appearances and uses. No historic preservation work has been done; the ruins are deteriorating rapidly in Sierra Leone’s tropical climate. The World Monuments Fund placed Bunce Island and other historic sites in Sierra Leone on its 2008 watch list of the world’s \"100 Most Endangered Sites\". Several organisations in Sierra Leone, the US and the UK are promoting popular awareness of Bunce Island and its history, and working toward the preservation of the castle.\n\nIn October 2010, the Bunce Island Coalition (US) and its local partner organisation announced the start of the Bunce Island Preservation Project, a five-year, US$5 million effort to preserve the ruins of the castle as a historic landmark and to build a museum in Freetown devoted to the island's history and the influence of the Atlantic slave trade in Sierra Leone.\n\nGeneral Colin Powell, then Chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, visited Bunce Island in 1992 while on an official visit to Sierra Leone. Powell spoke of his feelings in a farewell speech he made before leaving the country; \"I am an American ... but today, I am something more ... I am an African too ... I feel my roots here in this continent\".\n\nLike the rest of Sierra Leone, Bunce Island has a tropical climate with a rainy season that runs from May to October; the balance of the year represents the dry season. At the beginning and end of the rainy season, strong thunderstorms occur. Under the Köppen climate classification, Bunce Island has a tropical monsoon climate, mainy because of the large quantity of precipitation it receives during the rainy season.\n\nBetween November and February, humidity is moderated by the Harmattan, a wind blowing from the Sahara Desert, giving the island its coolest period of the year. Temperature extremes recorded in Freetown from Bunce are from all year. The average annual temperature is around .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29704027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29704027", "title": "Climate of Cyprus", "text": "Climate of Cyprus\n\nCyprus has a subtropical climate - Mediterranean and semi-arid type (in the north-eastern part of island) - according to Köppen climate classification signes \"Csa\" and \"BSh\", with very mild winters (on the coast) and warm to hot summers. Snow is possible only in the Troodos mountains in the central part of the island. Rain occurs mainly in winter, with summer being generally dry.\n\nCyprus has one of the warmest climates and warmest winters in the Mediterranean part of the European Union. The average annual temperature on the coast is around during the day and at night. Generally – warm temperature season lasts about eight months. It begins in April, with average temperatures of during the day and at night, and ends in November, with average temperatures of during the day and at night. In the remaining four months of the year, the temperatures tend to remain mild, while sometimes exceed during the day. In Limassol, in the period January–February, the average maximum temperature is during the day and at night. In other coastal locations in Cyprus, the temperature is generally during the day and at night. In March and December in Limassol the average is during the day and at night; other coastal locations in Cyprus are generally during the day and at night.\n\nThe middle of summer (July and August) is usually hot, with an average maximum coastal temperature of around during the day and around at night. In the centre of the island – the highlands – the average temperature exceeds ). In June and September on the coast the average maximum temperature is usually around during the day and around at night. While large temperature fluctuations are rare on the coast, the centre of Cyprus has more variations – typically colder winters and hotter summers.\n\nThe average annual temperature of the sea around Cyprus is , from in February to in August (depending on the location). In the seven months from May to November the average sea temperature exceeds .\n\nCyprus receives an average of 2,700 to 3,500 hours per year. In winter, Cyprus receives an average of 5–6 hours of sunlight per day, half of the 12–13 hours experienced at the height of summer. This is about double that of cities in the northern half of Europe; for comparison, London has 1,461 hours. However, in winter there can be more than four times more sunshine; for comparison, London has 37 hours while coastal locations in Cyprus have around 180 hours of sunshine in December (that is, as much as in May in London).\n\nThe higher mountain areas are cooler and moister than the rest of the island. They receive the heaviest annual rainfall, which may be as much as . Sharp frost also occurs in the higher districts, which are usually blanketed with snow during the first months of the year. Precipitation increases from up the south-western windward slopes to nearly at the top of the Troodos massif. The narrow ridge of the Kyrenia range, stretching from west to east along the extreme north of the island produces a relatively small increase in rainfall of around along its ridge at an elevation of . Plains along the northern coast and in the Karpass Peninsula area average of annual rainfall. The least rainfall occurs in the Mesaoria, with a year. Variability in annual rainfall is characteristic for the island, however, and droughts are frequent and sometimes severe. Statistical analysis of rainfall in Cyprus reveals a decreasing trend of rainfall amounts in the last 30 years.\n\nRainfall in the warmer months contributes little or nothing to water resources and agriculture. Autumn and winter rainfall, on which agriculture and water supply generally depend, is somewhat variable from year to year.\n\nThe Mediterranean climate, warm and rather dry, with rainfall mainly between November and March, favors agriculture. In general, the island experiences mild wet winters and dry hot summers. Variations in temperature and rainfall are governed by altitude and, to a lesser extent, distance from the coast. Hot, dry summers from mid-May to mid-September and rainy, rather changeable winters from November to mid-March are separated by short autumn and spring seasons.\n\nIn summer the island is mainly under the influence of a shallow trough of low pressure extending from the great continental depression centred over Western Asia. It is a season of high temperatures with almost cloudless skies.\n\nIn winter Cyprus is near the track of fairly frequent small depressions which cross the Mediterranean Sea from west to east between the continental anticyclone of Eurasia and the generally low pressure belt of North Africa. These depressions give periods of disturbed weather usually lasting for a day or so and produce most of the annual precipitation, the average rainfall from December to February being about 60% of the average annual total precipitation for the island as a whole, which is .\n\nRelative humidity of the air is on average between 60% and 80% in winter and between 40% and 60% in summer with even lower values over inland areas around midday. Fog is infrequent and visibility is generally very good. Sunshine is abundant during the whole year and particularly from April to September when the average duration of bright sunshine exceeds 11 hours per day.\n\nWinds are generally light to moderate and variable in direction. Strong winds may occur sometimes, but gales are infrequent over Cyprus and are mainly confined to exposed coastal areas as well as areas at high elevation.\n"}
{"id": "12312178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12312178", "title": "Cut bank", "text": "Cut bank\n\nA cut bank, also known as a river cliff or river-cut cliff, is the outside bank of a water channel (stream), which is continually undergoing erosion. Cut banks are found in abundance along mature or meandering streams, they are located on the \"outside\" of a stream bend, known as a meander, opposite the slip-off slope on the inside of the bend. They are shaped much like a small cliff, and are formed by the erosion of soil as the stream collides with the river bank. As opposed to a point bar, which is an area of deposition, a cut bank is an area of erosion.\n\nTypically, cut banks are nearly vertical and often expose the roots of nearby plant life. Often, particularly during periods of high rainfall and higher-than average water levels, trees and poorly placed buildings can fall into the stream due to mass wasting events. Given enough time, the combination of erosion along cut banks and deposition along point bars can lead to the formation of an oxbow lake.\n\nNot only are cut banks steep and unstable, they are also the area of a stream where the water is flowing the fastest at a higher pressure and often deeper, making them rather dangerous. Geologically speaking, this is known as an area of \"high-energy\".\n\nMaterial eroded here is deposited downstream in point bars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33464912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33464912", "title": "Daylight saving time in Australia", "text": "Daylight saving time in Australia\n\nThe choice of whether to use daylight saving time (DST) in Australia is a matter for the individual states and territories. However, during World War I and World War II all states and territories had daylight saving. In 1968 Tasmania became the first state since the war to practise daylight saving. In 1971, New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and the Australian Capital Territory followed Tasmania by observing daylight saving. Western Australia and the Northern Territory did not. Queensland abandoned daylight saving time in 1972. Queensland and Western Australia have observed daylight saving over the past 40 years from time to time on trial bases.\n\nNew South Wales, the Australian Capital Territory, Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia observe DST every year. This has resulted in three time zones becoming five during the daylight-saving period. South Australia time becomes , called Central Daylight Time (CDT), possibly with \"Australia\" prefixed (ACDT). The time in the southeastern states becomes UTC+11, using \"Eastern\" in the time zone name, Eastern Daylight Time (EDT), respectively Australia Eastern Daylight Time (AEDT).\n\nOfficially, the change to and from DST takes place at 2:00 am local standard time (which is 3:00 am DST) on the appropriate Sunday.\n\nOf the states that observe DST, most began on the last Sunday in October, and ended on the last Sunday in March, until 2008. Tasmania, owing to its further southern latitude began DST earlier, on the first Sunday in October, and ended on the first Sunday of April.\n\nOn 12 April 2007, New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania and the Australian Capital Territory agreed to common starting and finishing dates for DST. From the 2008/09 period, the start of DST in these states and in South Australia commences on the first Sunday in October and ends on the first Sunday in April. Western Australia became the only state to observe daylight saving from the last Sunday in October to the last Sunday in March. Since 2009 Western Australia no longer observes daylight saving.\n\nQueensland (AEST UTC+10), Northern Territory (ACST UTC+9:30) and Western Australia (AWST UTC+8) do not observe DST.\n\nQueensland has had a particularly involved debate over daylight-saving time, with public opinion geographically divided. A referendum on daylight saving was held on 22 February 1992, following a three-year trial (1989/90 - 1991/92), and was defeated with a 54.5% 'no' vote.\n\nSince the early 2000s, there have been a number of petitions submitted to Queensland Parliament, lobbying for the introduction of daylight-saving time or for another referendum to be held. A petition in 2006 was signed by 62,232 people. In response to these petitions, then Queensland Premier Peter Beattie commissioned research to find out if daylight-saving time should be re-introduced into Queensland. Around this time, Premier Peter Beattie claimed that daylight-saving time in Queensland would increase the rate of skin cancer in the state, an unfounded claim for which there is no evidence according to the Queensland Cancer Fund.\nIn October 2007, the completed government-commissioned research was presented to a newly sworn-in Premier Anna Bligh, who ruled out holding a new referendum, despite the report indicating 59% of Queensland residents and 69% of South East Queenslanders to be in favour of adopting daylight-saving time.\n\nIn December 2008, the Daylight Saving for South East Queensland (DS4SEQ) political Party was officially registered, advocating the implementation of a dual-time zone arrangement for Daylight Saving in South East Queensland while the remainder of the state maintains standard time. The party contested the March 2009 Queensland State election with 32 candidates and received around one percent of the statewide primary vote, equating to around 2.5% across the 32 electorates contested.\n\nIn early 2010, the DS4SEQ political party approached independent Member, Peter Wellington, to introduce a private member's Bill for daylight saving. As Wellington agreed with the principles of the DS4SEQ proposal, specifically the dual time zone arrangement, he drafted the Daylight Saving for South East Queensland Referendum Bill 2010 and tabled the Bill into Queensland Parliament on 14 April 2010. Wellington has called for a referendum to be held at the next State election on the introduction of daylight saving into south-east Queensland under a dual-time zone arrangement.\n\nIn response to this Bill, Premier of Queensland, Anna Bligh, announced a community consultation process, which resulted in over 74,000 respondents participating, 64 percent of whom voted in favour of a trial and 63% were in favour of holding a referendum. The decision announced by the Premier on 7 June 2010 was that her Government would not support the Bill, because regional Queenslanders were overwhelmingly opposed to daylight saving. The Bill was defeated in Queensland Parliament on 15 June 2011.\n\nWestern Australia also had a particularly involved debate over daylight-saving time, with the issue being put to a referendum four times, 1975, 1984, 1992 and 2009. All were defeated. Voters returned a \"no\" vote of 54.57% in 2009, the highest in all four referendums. Each referendum followed a trial period during which the state observed daylight saving time. The first three followed a one-year trial, while the 2006 \"Western Australian Daylight Saving Bill (No. 2) 2006\" instituted a daylight-saving trial that began on 3 December 2006 and lasted for three years. The referendum was defeated in 2009.\n\nIn 2000, all eastern jurisdictions that normally observe daylight-saving time — New South Wales, Victoria, the Australian Capital Territory and Tasmania — started daylight-saving time early, due to the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney. These jurisdictions changed on 27 August 2000. South Australia did not change until the regular time, which that year was on 29 October.\n\nIn 2006, all states that followed daylight-saving time (the above listed states plus South Australia) delayed the return to their respective Standard Times by a week, due to the 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne. Daylight-saving time ended on 2 April 2006.\n\nDaylight saving was first used in Australia during World War I, and was applied in all states. It was used again during the Second World War. A drought in Tasmania in 1967 led to the reintroduction of daylight saving in that state during the summer, and this was repeated every summer since then. In 1971, New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and the Australian Capital Territory followed Tasmania by observing daylight saving. Western Australia and the Northern Territory did not. Queensland abandoned daylight saving time in 1972.\n\nOriginally Tasmania alone commenced daylight saving on the first Sunday in October, while the other states began on the last Sunday in October and finished on the last Sunday in March, until 2008.\nFrom 2008/09 daylight saving has been extended another four weeks in NSW, Victoria, SA and the ACT, in addition to Tasmania, from the first Sunday in October to the first Sunday in April.\n\nQueensland again trialled daylight saving, for three years between 1989 and 1992, with a referendum on daylight saving held on 22 February 1992, which was defeated with a 54.5% ‘no’ vote - with regional and rural areas strongly opposed, while those in the metropolitan South East Queensland were in favour.\n\nIn December 2008, the Daylight Saving for South East Queensland (DS4SEQ) political party was officially registered, advocating the implementation of a dual-time zone arrangement for Daylight Saving in South East Queensland while the rest of the state maintains standard time. The party contested the March 2009 Queensland State election with 32 candidates and received around one percent of the statewide primary vote, equating to around 2.5% across the 32 electorates contested.\n\nOn 14 April 2010, and after being approached by the Daylight Saving for South East Queensland (DS4SEQ) political party, Queensland Independent member Peter Wellington, introduced the Daylight Saving for South East Queensland Referendum Bill 2010 into Queensland Parliament, calling for a referendum to be held at the next State election on the introduction of daylight saving into South East Queensland under a dual-time zone arrangement. The Bill was defeated in Queensland Parliament on 15 June 2011.\n\nIn Western Australia, four referendums in 1975, 1984, 1992 and 2009 have rejected DST.\nIn 2006, the Parliament of Western Australia approved a three-year daylight saving trial to be followed by a referendum to decide whether DST should be put in place permanently. However, public opposition mounted during the first year of the trial, and the WA Nationals announced a public campaign to bring the referendum forward to 2007. The trial continued until the referendum, held on 16 May 2009. The result was another rejection of DST, by a larger margin compared to the three previous referendums. Although as previously the suburbs of the state capital, Perth, supported the proposal, it was by a much narrower margin than before with significant swings against it in several areas, most notably in the East Metropolitan region. As a result, the Premier of Western Australia has said that the DST issue should not be considered for at least another 20 years.\n\nDespite this, in September 2016 the Daylight Saving Party was established by Wilson Tucker to contest seats in the Legislative Council at the upcoming 2017 state election. Tucker argued that in the seven years since the last referendum there had been a generational shift in Western Australia and that the fifth referendum would be successful. The party won 0.68% of the vote, or 9,209 votes statewide, but failed to win any seat in the Legislative Council.\n\nThe Northern Territory experimented with daylight saving in the early part of the 20th century. It was last used in 1944.\n\n"}
{"id": "2684441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2684441", "title": "Days and Nights in Calcutta", "text": "Days and Nights in Calcutta\n\nDays and Nights in Calcutta is a work of memoir by husband-and-wife authors Clark Blaise and Bharati Mukherjee first published by Doubleday in 1977. Blaise, a Canadian author, and Mukherjee, originally from the Indian state of West Bengal, had been married for a decade when they decided in 1973 to travel with their two children to India and spend a year in Calcutta (now Kolkata) with Mukherjee's family. The first half of the book is told from Blaise's point of view as a Westerner adjusting to life with a large upper-class Indian family and the unfamiliar traditions and patterns of life he found in India. The second half is told from Mukherjee's perspective after fourteen years' absence from the land of her birth, testing her childhood memories against the realities of 1973 India and examining the differences between the path her life had followed and the life she might have lived had she remained in India.\n\nThe first American paperback edition published in 1995 by Hungry Mind Press included a new prologue by Blaise and new epilogue by Mukherjee, providing additional perspective on the visit to India the pair had made more than two decades before.\n\n"}
{"id": "58833055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58833055", "title": "Dialogues in Human Geography", "text": "Dialogues in Human Geography\n\nDialogues in Human Geography is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal covering human geography. It was established in 2011 and is published by SAGE Publications. The founder and editor-in-chief is Rob Kitchin (Maynooth University). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 10.214, ranking it 1st out of 84 journals in the category \"Geography\".\n"}
{"id": "307197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307197", "title": "Emergent coastline", "text": "Emergent coastline\n\nAn emergent coastline is a stretch along the coast that has been exposed by the sea by a relative fall in sea levels by either isostasy or eustasy.\n\nEmergent coastline are the opposite of submergent coastlines, which have experienced a relative rise in sea levels.\n\nThe emergent coastline may have several specific landforms:\n\nThe Scottish Gaelic word \"machair\" or \"machar\" refers to a fertile low-lying raised beach found on some of the coastlines of Ireland and Scotland (especially the Outer Hebrides.\n\nHudson Bay, in Canada's north, is an example of an emergent coastline. It is still emerging by as much as 1 cm per year. Another example of emergent coastline is the Eastern Coastal Plains of the Indian Subcontinent.\n"}
{"id": "11890051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11890051", "title": "Extreme points of the British Isles", "text": "Extreme points of the British Isles\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of the British Isles, the points that are farther north, south, east, west, higher or lower than any other location\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19845079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19845079", "title": "Fram Strait", "text": "Fram Strait\n\nThe Fram Strait is the passage between Greenland and Svalbard, located roughly between 77°N and 81°N latitudes and\ncentered on the prime meridian. The Greenland and Norwegian Seas lie south of Fram Strait, while the Nansen Basin of the Arctic Ocean lies to the north. Fram Strait is noted for being the only deep connection between the Arctic Ocean and the World Oceans. The dominant oceanographic features of the region are the West Spitsbergen Current on the east side of the strait and the East Greenland Current on the west.\n\nFram Strait is the northernmost ocean area having ice-free conditions throughout the year. The width of the strait is about 450 km, but because of the wide continental shelves of Greenland and Spitsbergen, the deep portion of Fram Strait is only about 300 km wide. The ocean over the Greenland continental shelf is often covered with ice.\n\nWithin Fram Strait, the sill connecting the Arctic and Fram Strait is 2545 m deep. The Knipovich Ridge, the northernmost section of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, extends northward through the strait to connect to the Nansen-Gakkel Ridge of the Arctic Ocean. A rift valley, caused by sea-floor spreading, runs adjacent and parallel to the Knipovich Ridge. The Molloy Deep within Fram Strait is the deepest point of the Arctic. This small basin at 79°8.5′N and 2°47′E has a maximum depth of 5607 m (See also: Litke Deep). The Yermak Plateau, with a mean depth of about 650 m, lies to the northwest of Spitsbergen.\n\nHistorically, Fram Strait was home to a large population of Bowhead whales, then called the Greenland right whale. By mid-17th century, the Svalbard population of Bowhead whales was reduced to near extinction by excessive whaling (See also: Whaling in Spitsbergen; Smeerenburg). Western Fram Strait may be a wintering ground for this Critically Endangered population.\n\nThe use of the name \"Fram Strait\" for the passage between Spitsbergen and Greenland appears to have come into common use in the \noceanographic literature in the 1970s. Fram Strait is named after the Norwegian ship \"Fram\". In an 1893 expedition led by Fridtjof Nansen, the Fram drifted for two years across the Arctic before exiting the Arctic through what is now known as Fram Strait. According to glaciologist and geographer Moira Dunbar, an early adopter of the name, the name \"Fram Strait\" originated in the Russian scientific literature. While in common use, particularly in the oceanographic scientific literature, the name appears to be unofficial.\n\nFram Strait is the only deep-water connection between the World Oceans and the Arctic. Other gateways are the Barents Sea Opening (BSO), the Bering Strait and various small channels in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. They are all shallower than Fram Strait, leaving Fram Strait the only route by which deep water can be exchanged between the Atlantic and Arctic Oceans. This exchange occurs in both directions, with\nspecific water masses identified with specific regions flowing between the Oceans. Water with characteristics of the deep Canadian and Eurasian Basins of the Arctic are observed leaving the Arctic in the deep western side of Fram Strait, for example. On the eastern side, cold water from the Norwegian Sea is observed entering the Arctic below the West Spitsbergen Current. In recent years the nature and interactions of these water masses have been changing, symptoms of the changes occurring with the ocean's climate.\n\nWarm, salty water is transported northward from the Atlantic by the West Spitsbergen Current in the east of the strait. The West Spitsbergen Current is the northernmost branch of the North Atlantic Current system. This water forms a water mass called the Atlantic water. The sub-surface flow has a strong seasonality with a minimal volume transport in winter. This current transports internal energy into the Arctic Ocean . The northward velocity is maximum in winter, so the \"heat transport\" is highest in winter.\n\nOn the west side of the strait, the East Greenland Current flows southward on the Greenland Shelf. The current carries is relatively cold and fresh water out of the Arctic that corresponds to a water mass called Polar water.\n\nThe Fram Strait area is located downwind of the Transpolar Drift and therefore covered by multi-year ice in the west of the strait, next to the coast of Greenland. Approximately 90% of sea ice exported from the Arctic is transported by the East Greenland Current. Sea ice essentially corresponds to fresh water, since its salt content of 4 per mil is much less than the 35 per mil for sea water.\n\nThe Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research (AWI) and the Norwegian Polar Institute (NPI) have maintained long term monitoring measurements in Fram Strait to obtain volume- and energy-budgets through this choke point. The observations also serve to assess the development of the Arctic Ocean as a sink for terrestrial organic carbon. \nThe AWI=NPI observing array consists of a line of up to 16 moorings across Fram Strait. The mooring line has been maintained since 1997 with a spacing of roughly 25 km. At up to five different depths, the moored array measures the water velocity, temperature, and salinity of the water column.\n\nComputer simulations suggest that 60 to 70% of the fluctuation of the sea ice flowing through the Fram Strait is correlated with a 6–7 year fluctuation in which the Icelandic Low Pressure system extends eastward into the Barents Sea. The amount of sea ice passing through the Fram Strait varies from year to year and affects the global climate through its influence on thermohaline circulation. \nThe warming in the Fram Strait region has likely amplified Arctic shrinkage, and serves as a positive feedback mechanism for transporting more internal energy to the Arctic Ocean.\n\nIn the past century, the sea surface temperature at Fram Strait has on average warmed roughly 1.9 °C (3.5 °F), and is 1.4 °C (2.5 °F) warmer than during the Medieval Warm Period.\n"}
{"id": "5574420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5574420", "title": "GPS·C", "text": "GPS·C\n\nGPS·C, short for \"GPS Correction\", was a Differential GPS data source for most of Canada maintained by the Canadian Active Control System, part of Natural Resources Canada. When used with an appropriate receiver, GPS·C improved real-time accuracy to about 1–2 meters, from a nominal 15 m accuracy.\n\nReal-time data was collected at fourteen permanent ground stations spread across Canada, and forwarded to the central station, \"NRC1\", in Ottawa for processing.\n\nVisiting the external webpage for this service on 2011-11-04, there is only a note saying that the service had been discontinued on 2011-04-01. There is a PDF link on that page to possible alternatives.\n\nGPS·C information was broadcast Canada-wide on MSAT by the CDGPS, short for \"Canada-Wide DGPS Correction Service\". CDGPS required a separate MSAT receiver, which output correction information in the RTCM format for input into any suitably equipped GPS receiver. The need for a separate receiver made it less cost-effective than solutions like WAAS or StarFire, which receive their correction information using the same antenna and receiver.\nOn April 9, 2010, it was announced that the service would be discontinued by March 31, 2011.\nThe service was decommissioned on March 31, 2011 and finally terminated on April 1, 2011, at 9:00 EDT.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126501", "title": "Google Earth", "text": "Google Earth\n\nGoogle Earth is a computer program that renders a 3D representation of Earth based on satellite imagery. The program maps the Earth by superimposing satellite images, aerial photography, and GIS data onto a 3D globe, allowing users to see cities and landscapes from various angles. Users can explore the globe by entering addresses and coordinates, or by using a keyboard or mouse. The program can also be downloaded on a smartphone or tablet, using a touch screen or stylus to navigate. Users may use the program to add their own data using Keyhole Markup Language and upload them through various sources, such as forums or blogs. Google Earth is able to show various kinds of images overlaid on the surface of the earth and is also a Web Map Service client.\n\nIn addition to Earth navigation, Google Earth provides a series of other tools through the desktop application. Additional globes for the Moon and Mars are available, as well as a tool for viewing the night sky. A flight simulator game is also included. Other features allow users to view photos from various places uploaded to Panoramio, information provided by Wikipedia on some locations, and Street View imagery. The web-based version of Google Earth also includes Voyager, a feature that periodically adds in-program tours, often presented by scientists and documentarians.\n\nGoogle Earth has been viewed by some as a threat to privacy and national security, leading to the program being banned in multiple countries. Some countries have requested that certain areas be obscured in Google's satellite images, usually areas containing military facilities.\n\nThe core technology behind Google Earth was originally developed at Intrinsic Graphics in the late 1990s. At the time, the company was developing 3D gaming software libraries. As a demo of their 3D software, they created a spinning globe that could be zoomed into, similar to the \"Powers of Ten\" film. The demo was popular, but the board of Intrinsic wanted to remain focused on gaming, so in 1999, they created Keyhole, Inc., headed by John Hanke. Keyhole then developed a way to stream large databases of mapping data over the internet to client software, a key part of the technology, and acquired patchworks of mapping data from governments and other sources. The product, called \"Keyhole EarthViewer\", was sold on CDs for use in fields such as real estate, urban planning, defense, and intelligence; users paid a yearly fee for the service. Despite making a number of capital deals with Nvidia and Sony, the small company was struggling to make payroll, and employees were leaving. \n\nFortunes for the company changed in early 2003 when CNN received a discount for the software in exchange for placing the Keyhole logo on-air whenever the map was used. Keyhole did not expect it would amount to more than brief 5 or 10 second prerecorded animation clips, but it was used extensively by Miles O'Brien live during the 2003 invasion of Iraq, allowing CNN and millions of viewers to follow the progress of the war in a way that had never been seen before. Public interest in the software exploded and Keyhole servers were not able to keep up with demand. Keyhole was soon contacted by the Central Intelligence Agency's venture capital firm, In-Q-Tel, and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, for use with defense mapping databases, which gave Keyhole a much-needed cash infusion. Intrinsic Graphics was sold in 2003 to Vicarious Visions after its gaming libraries did not sell well, and its core group of engineers and management transitioned to Keyhole with Hanke remaining at the head. \n\nAt the time, Google was finding that over 25% of its searches were of a geospatial character, including searches for maps and directions. In October 2004, Google acquired Keyhole as part of a strategy to better serve its users.\n\nGoogle Earth's imagery is displayed on a digital globe, which displays the planet's surface using a single composited image from a far distance. After zooming in far enough, the imagery transitions into different imagery of the same area with finer detail, which varies in date and time from one area to the next. The imagery is retrieved from satellites or aircraft. Before the launch of NASA and the USGS's Landsat 8 satellite, Google relied partially on imagery from Landsat 7, which suffered from a hardware malfunction that left diagonal gaps in images. In 2013, Google used datamining to remedy the issue, providing what was described as a successor to the Blue Marble image of Earth, with a single large image of the entire planet. This was achieved by combining multiple sets of imagery taken from Landsat 7 to eliminate clouds and diagonal gaps, creating a single \"mosaic\" image. Google now uses Landsat 8 to provide imagery in a higher quality and with greater frequency. Imagery is hosted on Google's servers, which are contacted by the application when opened, requiring an Internet connection.\n\nImagery resolution ranges from 15 meters of resolution to 15 centimeters. For much of the Earth, Google Earth uses digital elevation model data collected by NASA's Shuttle Radar Topography Mission. This creates the impression of three-dimensional terrain, even where the imagery is only two-dimensional.\n\nEvery image created from Google Earth using satellite data provided by Google Earth is a copyrighted map. Any derivative from Google Earth is made from copyrighted data which, under United States Copyright Law, may not be used except under the licenses Google provides. Google allows non-commercial personal use of the images (e.g. on a personal website or blog) as long as copyrights and attributions are preserved. By contrast, images created with NASA's globe software World Wind use The Blue Marble, Landsat, or USGS imagery, each of which is in the public domain.\n\nIn version 5.0, Google introduced Historical Imagery, allowing users to view earlier imagery. Clicking the clock icon in the toolbar opens a time slider, which marks the time of available imagery from the past. This feature allows for observation of an area's changes over time. Utilizing the timelapse feature allows for the ability to view a zoomable video as far back as 32 years.\n\nGoogle Earth shows 3D building models in some cities, including photorealistic 3D imagery. The first 3D buildings in Google Earth were created using 3D modeling applications such as SketchUp and, beginning in 2009, Building Maker, and were uploaded to Google Earth via the 3D Warehouse. In June 2012, Google announced that it would be replacing user-generated 3D buildings with an auto-generated 3D mesh. This would be phased in, starting with select larger cities, with the notable exception of cities such as London and Toronto which required more time to process detailed imagery of their vast number of buildings. The reason given is to have greater uniformity in 3D buildings, and to compete with Nokia Here and Apple Maps, which were already using this technology. The coverage began that year in 21 cities in four countries. By early 2016, 3D imagery had been expanded to hundreds of cities in over 40 countries, including every U.S. state and encompassing every continent except Antarctica.\n\nIn 2009, in a collaboration between Google and the Museo del Prado in Madrid, the museum selected 14 of its paintings to be photographed and displayed at the resolution of 14,000 megapixels inside the 3D version of the Prado in Google Earth and Google Maps.\n\nOn April 15, 2008, with version 4.3, Google fully integrated Street View into Google Earth. Street View displays 360° panoramic street-level photos of select cities and their surroundings. The photos were taken by cameras mounted on automobiles, can be viewed at different scales and from many angles, and are navigable by arrow icons imposed on them.\n\nIntroduced in Google Earth 5.0 in 2009, the Google Ocean feature allows users to zoom below the surface of the ocean and view the 3D bathymetry. Supporting over 20 content layers, it contains information from leading scientists and oceanographers. On April 14, 2009, Google added bathymetric data for the Great Lakes.\n\nIn June 2011, Google increased the resolution of some deep ocean floor areas from 1-kilometer grids to 100 meters. The high-resolution features were developed by oceanographers at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory from scientific data collected on research cruises. The sharper focus is available for about 5 percent of the oceans. This can be seen in the Hudson off New York City, the Wini Seamount near Hawaii, and the Mendocino Ridge off the U.S Pacific coast.\n\nGoogle has programs and features, including within Google Earth, allowing exploration of Mars, the moon, the view of the sky from Earth and outer space, including the surfaces of various objects in the solar system.\n\nGoogle Sky is a feature that was introduced in Google Earth 4.2 on August 22, 2007, in a browser-based application on March 13, 2008, and to Android smartphones, with augmented reality features. Google Sky allows users to view stars and other celestial bodies. It was produced by Google through a partnership with the Space Telescope Science Institute (STScI) in Baltimore, the science operations center for the Hubble Space Telescope. Dr. Alberto Conti and his co-developer Dr. Carol Christian of STScI plan to add the public images from 2007, as well as color images of all of the archived data from Hubble's Advanced Camera for Surveys. Newly released Hubble pictures will be added to the Google Sky program as soon as they are issued.\n\nNew features such as multi-wavelength data, positions of major satellites and their orbits as well as educational resources will be provided to the Google Earth community and also through Christian and Conti's website for Sky. Also visible on Sky mode are constellations, stars, galaxies, and animations depicting the planets in their orbits. A real-time Google Sky mashup of recent astronomical transients, using the VOEvent protocol, is being provided by the VOEventNet collaboration. Other programs similar to Google Sky include Microsoft WorldWide Telescope and Stellarium.\n\nGoogle Mars is an application within Google Earth that is a version of the program for imagery of the planet Mars. Google also operates a browser-based version, although the maps are of a much higher resolution within Google Earth, and include 3D terrain, as well as infrared imagery and elevation data. There are also some extremely-high-resolution images from the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter's HiRISE camera that are of a similar resolution to those of the cities on Earth. Finally, there are many high-resolution panoramic images from various Mars landers, such as the Mars Exploration Rovers, Spirit and Opportunity, that can be viewed in a similar way to Google Street View.\n\nMars also has a small application found near the face on Mars. It is called Meliza, a robot character the user can speak with.\n\nOriginally a browser application, Google Moon is a feature that allows exploration of the moon. Google brought the feature to Google Earth for the 40th anniversary of the Apollo 11 mission on July 20, 2009. It was announced and demonstrated to a group of invited guests by Google along with Buzz Aldrin at the Newseum in Washington, D.C. Google Moon includes several tours, including one for the Apollo missions, incorporating maps, videos, and Street View-style panoramas, all provided by NASA.\n\nGoogle Earth has numerous features which allow the user to learn about specific places. These are called \"layers\", and include different forms of media, including photo and video. Some layers include tours, which guide the user between specific places in a set order. Layers are created using the Keyhole Markup Language, or KML, which users can also use to create customized layers. Locations can be marked with placemarks and organized in folders; For example, a user can use placemarks to list interesting landmarks around the globe, then provide a description with photos and videos, which can be viewed by clicking on the placemarks while viewing the new layer in the application.\n\nIn December 2006, Google Earth added a new integration with Wikipedia and Panoramio. For the Wikipedia layer, entries are scraped for coordinates via the . There is also a community-layer from the project . More coordinates are used, different types are in the display, and different languages are supported than the built-in Wikipedia layer. The Panoramio layer features pictures uploaded by Panoramio users, placed in Google Earth based on user-provided location data. In addition to flat images, Google Earth also includes a layer for user-submitted panoramic photos, navigable in a similar way to Street View.\n\nGoogle Earth includes multiple features that allow the user to monitor current events. In 2007, Google began offering users the ability to monitor traffic data provided by Google Traffic in real time, based on information crowdsourced from the GPS-identified locations of cell phone users.\n\nIn Google Earth 4.2, a flight simulator was added to the application. It was originally a hidden feature when introduced in 2007, but starting with 4.3, it was given a labeled option in the menu. In addition to keyboard control, the simulator can be controlled with a mouse or joystick. The simulator also runs with animation, allowing objects such as planes to animate while on the simulator.\n\nAnother flight simulator, GeoFS, was created under the name GEFS-Online using the Google Earth Plug-in API to operate within a web browser. As of September 1, 2015, the program now uses the open-source program CesiumJS, due to the Google Earth Plug-in being discontinued.\n\nLiquid Galaxy is a cluster of computers running Google Earth creating an immersive experience. On September 30, 2010, Google made the configuration and schematics for their rigs public, placing code and setup guides on the Liquid Galaxy wiki. Liquid Galaxy has also been used as a panoramic photo viewer using KRpano, as well as a Google Street View viewer using Peruse-a-Rue Peruse-a-Rue is a method for synchronizing multiple Maps API clients.\n\nGoogle Earth has been released on macOS, Linux, iOS, and Android. The Linux version began with the version 4 beta of Google Earth, as a native port using the Qt toolkit. The Free Software Foundation consider the development of a free compatible client for Google Earth to be a High Priority Free Software Project. Google Earth was released for Android on February 22, 2010, and on iOS on October 27, 2008. The mobile versions of Google Earth can make use of multi-touch interfaces to move on the globe, zoom or rotate the view, and allow to select the current location. An automotive version of Google Earth was made available in the 2010 Audi A8.\n\nGoogle Earth Pro was originally the business-oriented upgrade to Google Earth, with features such as a movie maker and data importer. Up until late January 2015, it was available for $399/year, though Google decided to make it free to the public. Google Earth Pro is currently the standard version of the Google Earth desktop application as of version 7.3. The Pro version includes add-on software for movie making, advanced printing, and precise measurements, and is currently available for Windows, Mac OS X 10.8 or later, and Linux.\n\nDiscontinued in December 2008, Google Earth Plus was a paid subscription upgrade to Google Earth that provided customers with the following features, most of which have become available in the free Google Earth. One such feature was GPS integration, which allowed users to read tracks and waypoints from a GPS device. A variety of third-party applications have been created which provide this functionality using the basic version of Google Earth by generating KML or KMZ files based on user-specified or user-recorded waypoints.\n\nGoogle Earth Enterprise is designed for use by organizations whose businesses could take advantage of the program's capabilities, for example by having a globe that holds company data available for anyone in that company. As of March 20, 2015, Google has retired the Google Earth Enterprise product, with support ended March 22, 2017. Google Earth Enterprise allowed developers to create maps and 3D globes for private use, and host them through the platform. GEE Fusion, GEE Server, and GEE Portable Server source code was published on GitHub under the Apache2 license in March 2017.\n\nGoogle Earth 9 is a version of Google Earth first released on April 18, 2017, having been in development for two years. The main feature of this version was the launching of a new web version of Google Earth, which is currently only available for Google Chrome. This version added the \"Voyager\" feature, whereby users can view a portal page containing guided tours led by scientists and documentarians. The version also added an \"I'm Feeling Lucky\" button, represented by a die, which takes the user to a random location on earth along with showing them a \"Knowledge Card\" containing a short excerpt from the location's Wikipedia article.\n\nThe Google Earth API was a free beta service, allowing users place a version of Google Earth into web pages. The API enabled sophisticated 3D map applications to be built. At its unveiling at Google's 2008 I/O developer conference, the company showcased potential applications such as a game where the player controlled a milktruck atop a Google Earth surface. The Google Earth API has been deprecated as of December 15, 2014 and remained supported until December 15, 2015. Google Chrome ended support for the Netscape Plugin API (which the Google Earth API relies on) by the end of 2016.\n\nOn November 16, 2016, Google released a virtual reality version of Google Earth for Valve's Steam computer gaming platform. Google Earth VR allows users to navigate using VR controllers, and is currently compatible with the Oculus Rift and HTC Vive virtual reality headsets. On September 14, 2017, as part of Google Earth VR's 1.4 update, Google added Street View support.\n\nGoogle Earth Outreach is a charity program, through which Google promotes and donates to various non-profit organizations. Beginning in 2007, donations are often accompanied by layers featured in Google Earth, allowing users to view a non-profit's projects and goals by navigating to certain related locations. Google Earth Outreach offers online training on using Google Earth and Google Maps for public education on issues affecting local regions or the entire globe. In June 2008, training was given to 20 indigenous tribes in the Amazon rainforest, such as the Suruí, to help them preserve their culture and raise awareness for the problem of deforestation.\n\nNon-profit organizations featured in Google Earth via the Outreach program include Arkive, the Global Heritage Fund, WaterAid, and the World Wide Fund for Nature.\n\nGoogle Earth Engine is a cloud computing platform for processing satellite imagery and other geospatial and observation data. It provides access to a large database of satellite imagery and the computational power needed to analyze those images. Google Earth Engine allows observation of dynamic changes in agriculture, natural resources, and climate using geospatial data from the Landsat satellite program, which passes over the same places on the Earth every sixteen days. Google Earth Engine has become a platform that makes Landsat and Sentinel-2 data easily accessible to researchers in collaboration with the Google Cloud Storage. The Google Earth Engine provides a data catalog along with computers for analysis; this allows scientists to collaborate using data, algorithms, and visualizations. The platform uses Python and Javascript application programming interfaces for making requests to the servers.\n\nGoogle Earth Engine has been used multiple times as a tool for tracking deforestation. Initial applications of the engine have included mapping the forests of Mexico, identifying water in the Congo basin, and detecting deforestation in the Amazon rainforest. Using the Google Earth Engine to track global forest loss or gain, the University of Maryland reported an overall loss in global forest cover. The Carnegie Institute for Science’s CLASlite system and Imazon’s Sisteme de Alerta de Deforesation (SAD) are two institutions that partnered with Google in the development of Google Earth Engine. Both organizations use the program to build maps of forests that measure environmental disturbances. Additionally, Google Earth Engine has been expanded to further applications. These range from: Tiger Habitat Monitoring, Malaria Risk Mapping and Global Surface Water.\n\nThe software has been criticized by a number of special interest groups, including national officials, as being an invasion of privacy or posing a threat to national security. The typical argument is that the software provides information about military or other critical installations that could be used by terrorists. Google Earth has been blocked by Google in Iran and Sudan since 2007, due to United States government export restrictions. The program has also been blocked in Morocco since 2006 by Maroc Telecom, a major service provider in the country.\nIn the academic realm, increasing attention has been devoted to both Google Earth and its place in the development of digital globes. In particular, the International Journal of Digital Earth features multiple articles evaluating and comparing the development Google Earth and its differences when compared to other professional, scientific, and governmental platforms. Google Earth's role in the expansion of \"earth observing media\" has been examined for its role in shaping a shared cultural consciousness regarding climate change and humanity's capacity to treat the earth as an engineerable object.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "954796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=954796", "title": "Győr County", "text": "Győr County\n\nGyőr county (in Hungarian: \"Győr (vár)megye\") was an administrative county (comitatus) of the Kingdom of Hungary. Its territory covered present-day north-western Hungary (95%) and south-western Slovakia (about 5%), mostly on the right (south) side of the Danube river. The capital of the county was the city of Győr.\n\nGyőr county shared borders with the counties Moson, Pozsony, Komárom, Veszprém and Sopron. The rivers Danube, and Rába run through the county. Its area was 1534 km² around 1910.\n\nThe Győr comitatus arose as one of the first comitatus of the Kingdom of Hungary. It was conquered by the Turks in 1541, and again by Habsburg Kingdom of Hungary around 1598.\n\nIn 1920 the Treaty of Trianon assigned a very small part of the territory of the county to Czechoslovakia. The rest stayed in Hungary and merged with the eastern part of Moson county and a very small part of Pozsony county to form \"Győr-Moson-Pozsony\" county.\n\nAfter World War II, \"Győr-Moson-Pozsony\" county merged with Sopron county to form Győr-Sopron county. This county was renamed to Győr-Moson-Sopron county in the early 1990s. The part of the county north of the river Danube is now in Slovakia, Trnava Region.\n\nIn 1900, the county had a population of 126,188 people and was composed of the following linguistic communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nAccording to the census of 1900, the county was composed of the following religious communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nIn 1910, the county had a population of 136,295 people and was composed of the following linguistic communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nAccording to the census of 1910, the county was composed of the following religious communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nIn the early 20th century, the subdivisions of Győr county were:\n"}
{"id": "1952879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952879", "title": "Hyperlocal", "text": "Hyperlocal\n\nHyperlocal is information oriented around a well-defined community with its primary focus directed toward the concerns of the population in that community. The term can be used as a noun in isolation or as a modifier of some other term (e.g. news). When used in isolation it refers to the emergent ecology of data (including textual content), aggregators, publication mechanism and user interactions and behaviors which centre on a resident of a location and the business of being a resident. More recently, the term hyperlocal has become synonymous with the combined use of applications on mobile devices and GPS technology. Use of the term originated in 1991, in reference to local television news content.\n\nA working definition of hyperlocal was published in a 2012 Nesta report, describing it as \"online news or content services pertaining to a town, village, single postcode or other small, geographically defined community\".\n\nHyperlocal content has two major dimensions: geography and time. The dimensions are measures of the relevance or value perceived by the content consumer in time and space. The higher the content scores on these dimensions the more relevant the content becomes to the individual and the less it becomes to the masses. Hyperlocal content is targeted at or consumed by people or entities that are located within a well defined area, generally on the scale of a street, neighborhood, community or city. Hyperlocal content must also be relevant in time. The nature of the evolution of hyperlocal content follows these two dimensions. By combining the two dimensions we can identify types of hyperlocal content throughout history. In the distant past, hyperlocal content was low on the geographic dimension, meaning that the content met only broad needs of larger populations across bigger areas, and also low on the time dimension: relevance was perceived over long timescales. Examples include almanacs, town criers and written postings or other similar forms of infrequent content delivery mechanisms. More recent hyperlocal content scores higher on the geographic and time dimensions because it delivers more diverse content that targets geographic areas and remains relevant at much smaller time scales such as days and weeks not months and years. Recent examples of hyperlocal delivery mechanisms include neighborhood focused news sources, neighborhood voucher packs and neighborhood websites. More recently, hyperlocal content has evolved to include GPS enabled internet integrated mobile applications which score highly on both the geographic and the time dimensions. They are capable of delivering content that is relevant not just in a community but relevant right down to the individual within a geographic area that can be measured in meters and blocks not towns and neighborhoods. They are also capable of delivering content relevant at very short timescales such as seconds or minutes not just days or weeks.\n\nHyperlocal websites can focus on very specialized topics—i.e., stories and issues of interest only to people in a very limited area. So, for example, school board meetings, restaurant, community group meeting, and garage sales can receive prominent coverage. For example, Forumhome.org focuses on issues likely of interest only to the few thousand residents of the small New Hampshire towns it serves. Another example is Rheebo, a hyperlocal website that build communities around things people are passionate about. Hyperlocal sites may also focus on particular issues. For example, NewWest.net focus on issues relating to balancing economic development and environmental concerns in quickly growing towns in the Rocky Mountain West such as Boulder, Colorado, and Bozeman, Montana (see Exhibit 4.3). \"Our core mission is to serve the Rockies with innovative, particularly journalism and to promote conversation that help us understand and make the most of the dramatic changes sweeping our region,\" the site notes. Much of the content on NewWest.net comes from freelancers and citizen contributors.\n\nIn recent years hyperlocal websites have been created to enable the concepts of the Sharing economy or Collaborative consumption. These websites allow peer communities to share human or physical assets. Examples include Yelp, Airbnb, TaskRabbit, eBay, Craigslist and Krrb. Many of the best-known hyperlocal news sites have sprung up independently, with the battle cry \"local doesn't scale,\" but larger media companies have been interested in the concept as well. Formerly a much-vaunted subsidiary of AOL, Patch Media runs a large US based hyperlocal network of sites. According to a March 2015 article in \"CIO\" magazine, \"Legions of underserved local advertisers were supposed to flock to Patch sites, leaving national publishers in the collective dust. . . . Of course, this wasn't how it played out. Scores of Patch sites were left inactive as the a company reexamined its strategy. Sure, hyperlocal content sounded great -- everyone wants to know what's happening around them -- but the flawed business model couldn't sustain it. Not enough big advertisers were targeting local markets.\"\n\nAnother model for a national company running hyperlocal sites is franchising, such as was being done by 2010 startup Main Street Connect.\n\nThe Washington Post Company also made a commitment to developing hyperlocal sites. Rob Curley, who has been called the \"hyperlocal guru\" for his previous work in Lawrence, Kansas, and Naples, Florida, joined washingtonpost.com in part to develop hyperlocal sites for that paper. The first Curley-led washingtonpost.com effort focused on Loudoun County, a fast-growing suburb in Northern Virginia. The site loudounextra.washingtonpost.com underwent a branding change to loudenextra.com, but that now redirects to a section of the parent paper, www.washingtonpost.com.\n\nSome hyperlocal sites included detailed searchable community events calendars and restaurant information, a complete listing of churches (including 360-degree inside views and recordings of sermons) and police blotter information updated every day. \"Knocked down mailboxes will be newsworthy\", Curley promised. \"What we're doing is taking the local and treating it like it's the superstar\". Others at washingtonpost.com have high hopes for the hyperlocal sites. \"It's a big effort\", says managing editor Jim Brady. \"When you take our daily traffic and combine it with Rob Curley's expertise—if it can't work here, it can't work anywhere\".\n\nSome journalists, not surprisingly, are skeptical of the hyperlocal movement's focus on the often mundane information of daily life. Hyperlocal \"has the potential to trivialize a media organization's brand and further saturate news sites with myopic local (and frequently unedited) content, perhaps at the expense of foreign and national reporting\", said an article in the \"American Journalism Review\". Still, media companies are searching for new ways to reach audiences with content that interest them, and hyperlocal definitely holds that potential. BBC's Van Klaveren says journalistic organizations need to embrace both the so-called \"big-J\" journalism and the hyperlocal: \"We need to move beyond news to information\".\n\nSocial networking sites originally did not host hyperlocal content but were the largest distributors of such content hosted on other sites. This is because of the contemporary nature of sharing and the predominantly local composition of user's network in which content is shared. This type of distribution is secondary (done by users) in contrast to the primary distribution done by the content hosting site itself (e.g. Craigslist). In recent years there has been a shift in user behavior to use Social Networking sites for both creating as well as sharing hyperlocal content. Prime examples exist in the phenomenon that Whatsapp is being increasingly used for community organization and eCommerce despite having no feature support for these activities. Facebook also hosts 60x more event than eVite (the leading site which specializes in events only). This user behavior suggests that an effective hyperlocal distribution is a more important consideration for users than the superior quality of the content itself. Since 2010, evidence shows that Social Networking sites have been mobilizing to aid and leverage this user behavior. Google acquired Zagat in 2011. Since 2012 Facebook has been adding new features to create varied hyperlocal content e.g. Blogs, Events. In early 2015 Facebook announced the feature to mark a post as sold and later in 2015 it introduced a C2C payment system. Many believe these steps as precursors to an imminent launch of Facebook Classifieds and Marketplace, most likely rolled into one.\n\nWhile many traditional print publications are shutting down or publish exclusively online, local newspapers in small towns can still make a profit. National companies that mail full-color glossy hyperlocal magazines to targeted neighborhoods include N2 Publishing and Best Version Media. Comparing themselves to Facebook, they publish mostly user-generated content written by local residents and homeowners associations.\n\nThe most recent incarnation of hyperlocal content grew out the combination of satellite based location services and advanced wireless data built into mobile devices. Satellite-based location services allow a high degree of physical location precision. When combined with a mobile device's access to the vast set of Internet data and services, hyperlocal takes on new dimensions. Realtime internet awareness of an individual's precise location in time allows people and entities to consume or deliver hyperlocal content that is relevant to specific individuals at very small time scales.\n\nHyperlocal GPS mobile apps, in particular, change the nature of human interaction with their environment by providing a much faster, richer and relevant source of information. The mobile Internet data connection available to hyperlocal apps allows GPS location data to be fused with Internet data to improve the decision process of the user. Examples of these types of hyperlocal content providers are Google Maps, Foursquare and LaunchLawyer. In contrast to printed maps, the mobile Google Maps app allows users to identify places and interests around their current GPS location. In contrast to rating services or directories, the mobile Foursquare app uses GPS location data to enable users to make more informed choices and receive better deals. In contrast to printed or online lawyer directories, the GPS-enabled LaunchLawyer mobile app combines GPS awareness with the ability to almost instantly get a lawyer. In each case the combination of mobile device, GPS and the Internet changed the manner in which consumption of information, services or goods took place.\n\nThere are other types of data which have local or hyperlocal relevance, or be of interest to residents - e.g. a government statistic on crime rates in one's neighborhood. Such data, while relevant to residents are of a qualitatively different type.\n\nFor large corporations successfully targeting local populations can involve either shedding or leveraging corporate identity:\n\nWhile there are various ways in which hyperlocal content is being created and published, blogs have become a key part of the hyperlocal ecology. Their basic roles evident in the space include individual blogs, blog networks, and aggregators.\n\nSome others initiatives are made for this purpose in the USA by the company Marchex, and in FRANCE by the network ProXiti. They are developing networks of thousands hyperlocal news sites like www.10282.net (Manhattan 212) or www.75016.info (paris 16eme arrondissement).\n\nIn response to the burgeoning number of hyperlocal news sites in New Jersey, The Citizens Campaign founded the Hyperlocal News Association (HNA). The HNA works to foster and encourage growth of new hyperlocal sites across the state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "840779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=840779", "title": "Jedidiah Morse", "text": "Jedidiah Morse\n\nJedidiah Morse (August 23, 1761June 9, 1826) was a notable geographer whose textbooks became a staple for students in the United States. He was the father of the telegraphy pioneer and painter Samuel Morse, and his textbooks earned him the sobriquet of \"father of American geography.\"\n\nBorn to a New England family in Woodstock, Connecticut, Morse did his undergraduate work and earned a divinity degree at Yale University (M.A. 1786). While pursuing his theological studies under Jonathan Edwards and Samuel Watts, he established a school for young women in 1783 in New Haven.\n\nIn the summer of 1785, he was licensed to preach, but continued to occupy himself with teaching. He became a tutor at Yale in June 1786, but, resigning this office, was ordained on November 9, 1786, and settled in Midway, Georgia, where he remained until August of the following year. He spent the winter of 1787/8 in New Haven in geographical work, preaching on Sundays to vacant parishes in the vicinity.\n\nMorse became a pastor in Charlestown, Boston (across Boston harbor) on April 30, 1789, where he served until 1820. Among his friends and numerous correspondents were Noah Webster, Benjamin Silliman and Jeremy Belknap.\nIn 1795, he received the degree of D.D. from the University of Edinburgh. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1796.\n\nThroughout his life, Morse was much occupied with religious controversy, and in upholding the faith of the New England church against the assaults of Unitarianism. Ultimately his persevering opposition to liberal views of religion brought on him a persecution that affected deeply his naturally delicate health. He was very active in 1804 in the movement that resulted in enlarging the Massachusetts general assembly of Congregational ministers, and in 1805 unsuccessfully opposed, as a member of the board of overseers, the election of Henry Ware to the Hollis Chair of Divinity at Harvard.\n\nMorse did much toward securing the foundation of Andover Theological Seminary, especially by his successful efforts in preventing the establishment of a rival institution in Newburg, which had been projected by the Hopkinsians. He participated in the organization of the Park Street Church in Boston in 1808, when all the Congregational churches of that city, except the Old South Church, had abandoned the orthodox faith. In 1805, he established \"The Panoplist\" for the purpose of illustrating and defending the commonly received orthodoxy of New England, and continued its sole editor for five years. This journal later became \"The Missionary Herald\".\n\nMorse strongly influenced the educational system of the United States. While teaching at a school for young women, he saw the need for a geography textbook oriented to the forming nation. The result was skimpy and derivative, \"Geography Made Easy\" (1784). He followed that with \"American Geography\" (1789), which was widely cited and copied. New editions of his school textbooks and the more weighty works often came out annually, earning him the informal title, \"father of American geography.\" His postponed gazetteer for his work of 1784 was bested by Joseph Scott's \"Gazetteer of the United States\" in 1795. With the aid of Noah Webster and Rev. Samuel Austin, Morse published his gazetteer as \"Universal Geography of the United States\" (1797).\n\nMorse rebutted certain racist views published in the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" concerning the Native American peoples, e.g., that their women were \"slavish\" and that their skins and skulls were thicker than those of other humans.\n\nHe took great interest in the subject of civilizing and Christianizing the Native Americans, and in 1820 he was appointed by the US secretary of war to visit and observe various tribes on the border, in order to ascertain their actual condition, and to devise the most suitable means for their improvement. This work occupied his attention during two winters, and the results of his investigations were embodied in a \"Report to the Secretary of War on Indian Affairs\" (New Haven, 1822).\n\nMorse is also known for his part in the \"Illuminati\" conspiracy theory in New England 1798-99. Beginning May 9, 1798, Morse delivered three sermons supporting John Robison's book \"Proofs of Conspiracy.\" Morse was a strong Federalist and shared fears that the anti-Federalists were influenced by alleged French Illuminati. According to a conspiracy theory, they were responsible for the French Revolution and Americans feared its excesses. Official sources state that Morse and Robison's claims have been discredited. When presented with the conspiracy theory, President George Washington reportedly said:\nIt is not my intention to doubt that the doctrine of the Illuminati and the principles of Jacobinism had not spread in the United States. On the contrary, no one is more satisfied of this fact than I am. The idea that I meant to convey, was, that I did not believe that the Lodges of Free Masons in this Country had, as Societies, endeavoured to propagate the diabolical tenets of the first, or pernicious principles of the latter (if they are susceptible of separation). That Individuals of them may have done it, or that the founder, or instrument employed to found, the Democratic Societies in the United States, may have had these objects; and actually had a separation of the People from their Government in view, is too evident to be questioned.\n\nMorse was an active member of the Massachusetts Historical Society, was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1813, and was also a member of various other literary and scientific bodies. He made significant contributions to Dobson's Encyclopædia, the first encyclopedia published in the United States after the Revolution.\nMorse published 25 sermons and addresses on special occasions; also \"A Compendious History of New England\", with Elijah Harris (Charlestown, 1804); and \"Annals of the American Revolution\" (Hartford, 1824).\n\nMorse married Elizabeth Ann Finley Breese after starting as pastor in Charlestown. He and his wife had a family of several children, including their first child Samuel F. B. Morse, the future painter and telegraphy pioneer. Other sons were Sidney Edwards Morse, who also published a geography text, and Richard Cary Morse (1795-1868), who assisted his father in his geographical work and founded with brother Sidney the \"New York Observer\".\n\nThe senior Morse died in 1826 and was buried at the Grove Street Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37503247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37503247", "title": "Lamadaya", "text": "Lamadaya\n\nLamadaya are waterfalls located in the Cal Madow mountain range in the northern Sanaag region of Somalia. The meaning of the word in the Afro-Asiatic Somali language is \"not to be looked at\", owing to the waterfalls' steep incline atop a high hill. The nearest town to Lamadaya is Ulheed, which is situated towards the Red Sea coast.\n\nImages of the Lamadaya waterfalls in Cal Madow.\n"}
{"id": "31676355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31676355", "title": "List of Michelin starred restaurants in Ireland", "text": "List of Michelin starred restaurants in Ireland\n\nThis is a list of Michelin starred restaurant in Ireland. Restaurants on the island Ireland that have or had a least one Michelin star are mentioned here.\n\n<div/ style=\"clear:both\">\nThere were no stars awarded before 1974. 1974 was the first year Michelin Guide awarded restaurants in Ireland and the United Kingdom.\n\nSources: \n\nSources: \n"}
{"id": "2434357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2434357", "title": "List of Puerto Rico state forests", "text": "List of Puerto Rico state forests\n\nThis article lists state forests in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.\n\nThe following are Puerto Rico state forests. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53922352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53922352", "title": "List of Saint Pierre and Miquelon football champions", "text": "List of Saint Pierre and Miquelon football champions\n\nOrganized football in Saint Pierre and Miquelon has been reported since at least 1964, when the Coupe du Territoire was held. The tournament was played regularly until the Ligue de Football de Saint Pierre et Miquelon was formed in 1976. The league has been played every season since 1976.\n\nBelow is the list of champions each year on the island territory where available.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1889038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1889038", "title": "List of Taiwanese writers", "text": "List of Taiwanese writers\n\nThis is a list of authors from Taiwan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "877099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=877099", "title": "List of colonial governors of the Congo Free State and Belgian Congo", "text": "List of colonial governors of the Congo Free State and Belgian Congo\n\nThis is a list of European colonial administrators responsible for the territory of the Congo Free State and Belgian Congo (today the Democratic Republic of the Congo).\n\nPrior to the creation of the Congo Free State, the International Association of the Congo (IAC) had signed treaties with over 300 native Congolese chiefs and in effect exercised sovereignty over a large area. The IAC was headquartered in Belgium and run by a committee under the presidency of Maximilien Strauch. Prior to the creation of the office of Administrator-General, authority on the ground in the Congo had been exercised by a Chief of Expedition, who until April 1884 was Henry Morton Stanley.\n\nOn 1 July 1960, the Belgian Congo became independent as the Republic of the Congo (\"République du Congo\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8216255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8216255", "title": "List of entities and changes in The World Factbook", "text": "List of entities and changes in The World Factbook\n\nThis is a list of entities and changes in \"The World Factbook\". \"The World Factbook\" is an annual publication of the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States with almanac-style information about the countries of the world.\n\nAs of July 2011, \"The World Factbook\" consists of 267 entities. These entities can be divided into categories. These categories are:\n\n\nAfter the list of entities, there is a table that lists entities that have been dropped, added, renamed, or consolidated in \"The World Factbook\".\n\nThe list of entities follows below. The names and flags of entities are as listed in the \"Factbook\" and may differ from other sources.\n\nThis is a list of independent countries. The CIA defines an \"independent country\" as people \"politically organized into a sovereign state with a definite territory\". In this category, there are 195 entities:\n\nThis is a list of other places set apart from the list of independent countries. There are two entities in this category:\n\nThis category is a list of places affiliated with another country. They may be subdivided into categories using the country they are affiliated with:\n\nThis category is for Antarctica and places in dispute. There are six entities here:\n\n\nThis category is for the World and the oceans. There are five oceans and the World (the World entry is intended as a summary of the other entries ) :\n\n\nThis table lists changes in the entities in the \"Factbook\". Entities that have been added are in green; dropped entities are in red; the flag last used by the entity is shown as well. Entities that have changed their name are in blue; entities that have been redirected and consolidated into another entry are in purple.\n\n These entities have been consolidated into the United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges entry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13192647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13192647", "title": "List of freshwater ecoregions in Africa and Madagascar", "text": "List of freshwater ecoregions in Africa and Madagascar\n\nThis is a list of freshwater ecoregions in Africa and Madagascar, as identified by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF).\n\nThe WWF divides the Earth's land surface into ecoregions, defined as \"large area[s] of land or water containing a distinct assemblage of natural communities and species\". Ecoregions are grouped into bioregions, \"a complex of ecoregions that share a similar biogeographic history, and thus often have strong affinities at higher taxonomic levels (e.g. genera, families).\" The Earth's land surface is divided into eight ecozones. Most of Africa lies in the Afrotropic ecozone, although the freshwater ecoregions of North Africa have much in common with the Palearctic.\n\nEach ecoregion is also classified into major habitat types, or biomes.\n\nMany consider this classification to be quite decisive, and some propose these as stable borders for bioregional democracy initiatives.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52068791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52068791", "title": "List of lighthouses in Vanuatu", "text": "List of lighthouses in Vanuatu\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in Vanuatu.\n\n"}
{"id": "44627962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44627962", "title": "List of lighthouses in the Canary Islands", "text": "List of lighthouses in the Canary Islands\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in the Canary Islands. The Spanish archipelago lies to the west of Africa, in the Atlantic Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "1223703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223703", "title": "List of political parties in the British Virgin Islands", "text": "List of political parties in the British Virgin Islands\n\nThe British Virgin Islands has a two-party system, which means that there are two dominant political parties, creating difficulty for anybody to achieve electoral success under the banner of any other party. In none of the previous four elections has a candidate who was not standing for any party other than one of the two main parties won a seat (although one candidate has won running as an independent). Prior to 1999 there were a number of multi-party elections with four or more parties contesting and three or more parties winning seats.\n\nThere are four main parties active at present in the Territory, and between them they hold all of the seats in the legislature. Two of them were formed in 2018, the other two are much older.\n\nSeveral parties have previously held seats in the British Virgin Islands legislature but are no longer current or active.\nA number of political parties have been formed but failed to win any seats. Only one of these parties has ever contested more than a single election (one of the parties named the Concern Citizen Movement contested two general elections; an unrelated party also named the Concern Citizen Movement contested a third).\nHistory of the political parties who have won at least one seat at a general election.\n"}
{"id": "20950589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20950589", "title": "List of postal codes in Bangladesh", "text": "List of postal codes in Bangladesh\n\nThis list shows an overview of 1216l codes of Bangladesh.1216\n\n"}
{"id": "1255386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1255386", "title": "List of rulers of the Bariba state of Kandi", "text": "List of rulers of the Bariba state of Kandi\n\nTerritory located in present-day Benin.\n\nSaka = \"Ruler\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12710685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12710685", "title": "List of sister cities of Taipei", "text": "List of sister cities of Taipei\n\nTaipei is twinned with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "672502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=672502", "title": "Lists of hospitals in Africa", "text": "Lists of hospitals in Africa\n\nThis is a list of hospitals for each country in Africa.\n"}
{"id": "2792706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2792706", "title": "Loaísa expedition", "text": "Loaísa expedition\n\nThe Loaísa expedition was a 16th-century voyage of discovery to the Pacific Ocean, commanded by Garcia Jofre de Loaísa (1490 – 20 July 1526) and ordered by King Charles I of Spain to colonize the Spice Islands in the East Indies. The seven-ship fleet sailed from La Coruña (Spain) in July 1525 and became the second naval expedition to cross the Pacific Ocean in history, after Magellan-Elcano's voyage. The expedition resulted in the discovery of the Sea of Hoces, south of Cape Horn and, the Marshall Islands in the Pacific. One ship ultimately arrived in the Spice Islands on New Year's Day of 1527.\n\nDe Loaísa's expedition was conceived both as a rescue mission and a voyage of discovery. The \"Victoria\", a vessel from Magellan's expedition to the Pacific, had returned to Spain with word that her sister ship the \"Trinidad\" had last been seen attempting to return home by sailing east from the Spice Islands to South America. De Loaísa was ordered to seek \"Trinidad\", or news of her fate, by voyaging along her expected return route to Spain. Failing this he was to locate and colonise Magellan's Spice Islands, and also to bring back news of the semi-mythical land of Ophir which Spanish scholars believed may be somewhere near China. (Most possibly the Philippines)- For this purpose, de Loaísa was assigned seven vessels and a total of 450 men including tradesmen and administrators for the Spice Islands settlement.\n\nThe expedition set sail from Corunna on July 24, 1525. It consisted of seven ships, \"Santa María de la Victoria\", \"Sancti Spiritus\", \"Anunciada\", \"San Gabriel\", \"Santa María del Parral\" and \"San Lesmes\" and a patache, \"Santiago\". De Loaísa was named captain along with Juan Sebastián Elcano, who had reached the Spice Islands in 1521 during the Magellan expedition.\n\nThe fleet headed southwest to the Canary Islands and then south along the African coastline. In November 1525 de Loaísa moved west across the Atlantic to Brazil, reaching the Patagonian shore in January 1526. There was no sign of \"Trinidad\", and de Loaísa decided to abandon the search for her and continue instead to the Spice Islands. However the weather was poor, and over the next several weeks, in high winds while trying to enter the Strait of Magellan, the ships alternately gathered and dispersed. Two ships, \"Sancti Spiritus\" and \"Anunciada\" were wrecked, and one, \"San Gabriel\" tacked into the Atlantic and deserted the expedition.\n\nThe \"San Lesmes\" under the captaincy of Francisco de Hoces was driven south along the coast, possibly to a latitude of 57°, where the crew noted \"an end of land\" which may have been the first European sighting of Cape Horn. After some difficulty Hoces was able to steer his galleon northward once more, rejoining the other three vessels that remained with the expedition. On 26 May 1526, this diminished fleet of four ships (three galleons and the patache), passed through the Strait and entered the Pacific.\n\nThe bad weather which had originally scattered de Loaísa 's fleet continued in the Pacific. The four remaining vessels quickly lost sight of each other in the heavy rain and were unable to regroup when the storm finally passed on 1 June.\n\nThe \"Santiago\" sailed for north, and in a 10,000-kilometre voyage, reached the Pacific coast of Mexico in July 1526, achieving the first navigation from Europe to the western coast of North America.\n\n\"San Lesmes\" disappeared entirely. Twentieth century speculation suggests she may have run aground in the Marquesas Islands, either on the island of Anaa where a 1774 expedition found a cross erected on the beach, or off the Amanu atoll where an old Spanish cannon was later found. \n\nThe third ship, \"Santa María del Parral\", sailed the Pacific to Sangir off the northern coast of Sulawesi, where the ship was beached and its crew were variously killed or enslaved by the natives. Four survivors were rescued in 1528 by another Spanish expedition coming from Mexico.\n\nThe last galleon, \"Santa Maria de la Victoria\", was the only ship to reach the Spice Islands, landing in September 1526.\n\nLoaísa himself died of scurvy on July 30, 1526, Elcano a few days later, and Alonso de Salazar three weeks after that. Yñigez reached the islands of Visayas and Mindanao in the Philippines and the Moluccas, but died of food poisoning. Only Andrés de Urdaneta and 24 other men survived to land in the Spice Islands. They returned to Spain in 1536 in the Portuguese India Armada and under Portuguese guard.\n\nThe fate of the \"San Lesmes\" is explored in Greg Scowen's conspiracy thriller \"The Spanish Helmet\" which is based on Robert Langdon's theory that the lost vessel made its way to, and discovered, New Zealand.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7575977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7575977", "title": "Matteo Ricci", "text": "Matteo Ricci\n\nMatteo Ricci, S.J. (; ; 6 October 1552 – 11 May 1610), was an Italian Jesuit priest and one of the founding figures of the Jesuit China missions. His 1602 map of the world in Chinese characters introduced the findings of European exploration to East Asia. He is considered a Servant of God in Roman Catholicism.\n\nRicci arrived at the Portuguese settlement of Macau in 1582 where he began his missionary work in China. He became the first European to enter the Forbidden City of Beijing in 1601 when invited by the Wanli Emperor, who sought his selected services in matters such as court astronomy and calendrical science. He converted several prominent Chinese officials to Catholicism, such as his colleague Xu Guangqi, who aided in translating \"Euclid's Elements\" into Chinese as well as the Confucian classics into Latin for the first time.\n\nRicci was born 6 October 1552, in Macerata, part of the Papal States, and today a city in the Italian region of Marche. He made his classical studies in his native town and studied law at Rome for two years. He entered the Society of Jesus in April 1571 at the Roman College. While there, in addition to philosophy and theology, he also studied mathematics, cosmology, and astronomy under the direction of Father Christopher Clavius. In 1577, he applied for a missionary expedition to the Far East. He sailed from Lisbon, Portugal in March 1578 and arrived in Goa, a Portuguese Colony, the following September. Ricci remained there employed in teaching and the ministry until the end of Lent, 1582, when he was summoned to Macau to prepare to enter China. Ricci arrived at Macau in the early part of August.\n\nIn August 1582, Ricci arrived at Macau, a Portuguese trading post on the South China Sea. At the time, Christian missionary activity in China was almost completely limited to Macau, where some of the local Chinese people had converted to Christianity and lived in the Portuguese manner. No Christian missionary had attempted seriously to learn the Chinese language until 1579 (three years before Ricci's arrival), when Michele Ruggieri was invited from Portuguese India expressly to study Chinese, by Alessandro Valignano, founder of St. Paul Jesuit College (Macau), and to prepare for the Jesuits' mission from Macau into Mainland China.\n\nOnce in Macau, Ricci studied Chinese language and customs. It was the beginning of a long project that made him one of the first Western scholars to master Chinese script and Classical Chinese. With Ruggieri, he traveled to Guangdong's major cities, Canton and Zhaoqing (then the residence of the Viceroy of Guangdong and Guangxi), seeking to establish a permanent Jesuit mission outside Macau.\n\nIn 1583, Ricci and Ruggieri settled in Zhaoqing, at the invitation of the governor of Zhaoqing, Wang Pan, who had heard of Ricci's skill as a mathematician and cartographer. Ricci stayed in Zhaoqing from 1583 to 1589, when he was expelled by a new viceroy. It was in Zhaoqing, in 1584, that Ricci composed the first European-style world map in Chinese, called \"Da Ying Quan Tu\" (). No prints of the 1584 map are known to exist, but, of the much improved and expanded Kunyu Wanguo Quantu of 1602, six recopied, rice-paper versions survive.\n\nIt is thought that, during their time in Zhaoqing, Ricci and Ruggieri compiled a Portuguese-Chinese dictionary, the first in any European language, for which they developed a system for transcribing Chinese words in the Latin alphabet. The manuscript was misplaced in the Jesuit Archives in Rome, rediscovered only in 1934, and published only in 2001.\n\nThere is now a memorial plaque in Zhaoqing to commemorate Ricci's six-year stay there, as well as a \"Ricci Memorial Centre\" in a building dating from the 1860s.\n\nExpelled from Zhaoqing in 1589, Ricci obtained permission to relocate to Shaoguan (Shaozhou, in Ricci's account) in the north of the province, and reestablish his mission there.\n\nFurther travels saw Ricci reach Nanjing (Ming's southern capital) and Nanchang in 1595. In August 1597, Alessandro Valignano (1539–1606), his superior, appointed him Major Superior of the mission in China, with the rank and powers of a Provincial, a charge that he fulfilled until his death. He moved to Tongzhou (a port of Beijing) in 1598, and first reached the capital Beijing itself on 7 September 1598. However, because of a Chinese intervention against Japanese invasion of Korea at the time, Ricci could not reach the Imperial Palace. After waiting for two months, he left Beijing; first for Nanjing and then Suzhou in Southern Zhili Province.\n\nDuring the winter of 1598, Ricci, with the help of his Jesuit colleague Lazzaro Cattaneo, compiled another Chinese-Portuguese dictionary, in which tones in Chinese syllables were indicated in Roman text with diacritical marks. Unlike Ricci's and Ruggieri's earlier Portuguese-Chinese dictionary, this work has not been found.\n\nIn 1601, Ricci was invited to become an adviser to the imperial court of the Wanli Emperor, the first Westerner to be invited into the Forbidden City. This honor was in recognition of Ricci's scientific abilities, chiefly his predictions of solar eclipses, which were significant events in the Chinese world. He established the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception in Beijing, the oldest Catholic church in the city. Ricci was given free access to the Forbidden City but never met the reclusive Wanli Emperor, who, however, granted him patronage, with a generous stipend and supported Ricci's completion of the \"Zhifang Waiji\", China's first global atlas.\n\nOnce established in Beijing, Ricci was able to meet important officials and leading members of the Beijing cultural scene and convert a number of them to Christianity. One conversion, which he called \"extraordinary\", occurred in 1602, when Li Yingshi, a decorated veteran of the Japanese/Korean War and a well-known astrologer and \"feng shui\" expert, became a Christian and provided the Jesuits with a wealth of information.\nRicci was also the first European to learn about the Kaifeng Jews, being contacted by a member of that community who was visiting Beijing in 1605. Ricci never visited Kaifeng, Henan Province, but he sent a junior missionary there in 1608, the first of many such missions. In fact, the elderly Chief Rabbi of the Jews was ready to cede his power to Ricci, as long as he gave up eating pork, but Ricci never accepted the position.\nRicci died on 11 May 1610, in Beijing, aged 57. By the code of the Ming Dynasty, foreigners who died in China had to be buried in Macau. Diego de Pantoja made a special plea to the court, requesting a burial plot in Beijing, in the light of Ricci's contributions to China. The Wanli Emperor granted this request and designated a Buddhist temple for the purpose. In October 1610, Ricci's remains were transferred there. The graves of Ferdinand Verbiest, Johann Adam Schall von Bell, and other missionaries are also there, and it became known as the Zhalan Cemetery, which is today located within the campus of the Beijing Administrative College, in Xicheng District, Beijing.\n\nRicci was succeeded as Superior General of the China mission by Nicolò Longobardo in 1610. Longobardo entrusted another Jesuit, Nicolas Trigault, with expanding and editing, as well as translating into Latin, those of Ricci's papers that were found in his office after his death. This work was first published in 1615 in Augsburg as \"De Christiana expeditione apud Sinas\" and soon was translated into a number of other European languages.\n\nRicci could speak Chinese as well as read and write classical Chinese, the literary language of scholars and officials. He was known for his appreciation of Chinese culture in general but condemned the prostitution which was widespread in Beijing at the time. During his research, he discovered that in contrast to the cultures of South Asia, Chinese culture was strongly intertwined with Confucian values and therefore decided to use existing Chinese concepts to explain Christianity. With Superior Valignano's formal approval, he aligned himself with the Confucian intellectually elite literati, and even adopted their mode of dress. He did not explain the Catholic faith as entirely foreign or new; instead, he said that the Chinese culture and people always believed in God and that Christianity is simply the completion of their faith. He borrowed an unusual Chinese term, \"Tiānzhǔ\" (, \"Lord of Heaven\") to describe the God of Abraham, despite the term's origin in traditional Chinese worship of Heaven. (He also cited many synonyms from the Confucian Classics.) He supported Chinese traditions by agreeing with the veneration of family ancestors. Dominican and Franciscan missionaries considered this an unacceptable accommodation, and later appealed to the Vatican on the issue. This Chinese rites controversy continued for centuries, with the most recent Vatican statement as recently as 1939. Some contemporary authors have praised Ricci as an exemplar of beneficial inculturation, avoiding at the same time distorting the Gospel message or neglecting the indigenous cultural media.\n\nLike developments in India, the identification of European culture with Christianity led almost to the end of Catholic missions in China, but Christianity continued to grow in Sichuan and some other locations.\n\nXu Guangqi and Ricci become the first two to translate some of the Confucian classics into a western language, Latin.\nRicci also met a Korean emissary to China, Yi Sugwang. He taught Yi the basic tenets of Catholicism and gave him several books concerning the west which were incorporated into his \"Jibong Yuseol,\" the first Korean encyclopedia. Along with João Rodrigues's gifts to the ambassador Jeong Duwon in 1631, Ricci's gifts influenced the creation of Korea's Silhak movement.\n\nThe cause of his beatification, originally begun in 1984, was reopened on 24 January 2010, at the cathedral of the Italian diocese of Macerata-Tolentino-Recanati-Cingoli-Treia. Bishop Claudio Giuliodori, the apostolic administrator of the Diocese of Macerata, formally closed the diocesan phase of the sainthood process on 10 May 2013. The cause moved to the Congregation for the Causes of Saints at the Vatican in 2014.\n\nThe following places and institutions are named after Matteo Ricci:\n\n\nIn the run-up to the 400th anniversary of Ricci's death, the Vatican Museums hosted a major exhibit dedicated to his life. Additionally, Italian film director Gjon Kolndrekaj produced a 60-minute documentary about Ricci, released in 2009, titled \"Matteo Ricci: A Jesuit in the Dragon's Kingdom\", filmed in Italy and China.\n\nIn Taipei, the Taipei Ricci Institute and the National Central Library of Taiwan opened jointly the Matteo Ricci Pacific Studies Reading Room and the Taipei-based\nonline magazine \"eRenlai\", directed by Jesuit Benoît Vermander, dedicated its June 2010 issue to the commemoration of the 400th anniversary of Ricci's death.\n\n\"The True Meaning of the Lord of Heaven\" (天主實義) is a book written by Ricci, which argues that Confucianism and Christianity are not opposed and in fact are remarkably similar in key respects. It was written in the form of a dialogue, originally in Chinese. Ricci used the treatise in his missionary effort to convert Chinese literati, men who were educated in Confucianism and the Chinese classics. In the Chinese Rites controversy, some Roman-Catholic missionaries raised the question whether Ricci and other Jesuits had gone too far and changed Christian beliefs to win converts.\n\nPeter Phan argues that \"True Meaning\" was used by a Jesuit missionary to Vietnam, Alexandre de Rhodes, in writing a catechism for Vietnamese Christians. In 1631, Girolamo Maiorica and Bernardino Reggio, both Jesuit missionaries to Vietnam, started a short-lived press in Thăng Long (present-day Hanoi) to print copies of \"True Meaning\" and other texts. The book was also influential on later Protestant missionaries to China, James Legge and Timothy Richard, and through them John Nevius, John Ross, and William Edward Soothill, all influential in establishing Protestantism in China and Korea.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55504209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55504209", "title": "Munjava Modruška", "text": "Munjava Modruška\n\nMunjava Modruška is a village in Croatia, under the Josipdol township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "12844012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12844012", "title": "Oliver Padel", "text": "Oliver Padel\n\nOliver James Padel (born 31 October 1948 in St Pancras, London, England) is an English medievalist and toponymist specializing in Welsh and Cornish studies. He is currently Honorary Research Fellow in the Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse, and Celtic in the University of Cambridge and Visiting Professor of Celtic at the University of the West of England.\n\nPadel was born in 1948, the son of John Hunter Padel and his wife Hilda (née Barlow), daughter of Sir Alan Barlow, 2nd Baronet and his wife Nora, (née Darwin), through whom he is a great-great-grandson of Charles Darwin. His older sister is the poet Ruth Padel.\n\nHe graduated from a BA in Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic in 1970, and was awarded an M.Litt. for his thesis on the inscriptions of Pictland by the University of Edinburgh in 1972. In 1992, he took a Litt. D. for his work on Cornish place-names.\n\nHe was a founding member of staff of the Institute of Cornish Studies (in the Charles Thomas era) from 1972-88. In 1988-90 he had a temporary post in the Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic at Cambridge University while Patrick Sims-Williams was on research leave, followed by posts in the Department of History and Welsh History at the University of Aberystwyth and at the Cornish Record Office. In 1994, he was appointed University Lecturer in Celtic Literature in ASNaC, replacing the former incumbent of the position, Patrick Sims-Williams.\n\nHe was President of the English Place-Name Society, from 2004 to 2014, and is a Past President of the Society for Name Studies in Britain and Ireland.\n\nHe edits the \"Journal of the Royal Institution of Cornwall\". He is a Member of Council of the Devon and Cornwall Record Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2413296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2413296", "title": "Organic fertilizer", "text": "Organic fertilizer\n\nOrganic fertilizers are fertilizers derived from animal matter, animal excreta (manure), human excreta, and vegetable matter (e.g. compost and crop residues). Naturally occurring organic fertilizers include animal wastes from meat processing, peat, manure, slurry, and guano.\n\nIn contrast, the majority of fertilizers used in commercial farming are extracted from minerals (e.g., phosphate rock) or produced industrially (e.g., ammonia). Organic agriculture, a system of farming, allows for certain fertilizers and amendments and disallows others; that is also distinct from this topic.\n\nThe main organic fertilizers are, peat, animal wastes (often from slaughter houses), plant wastes from agriculture, and treated sewage sludge.\n\nBy many definitions, minerals are separate from organic materials. However, certain organic fertilizers and amendments are mined, specifically guano and peat. Other mined minerals are fossil products of animal activity, such as greensand (anaerobic marine deposits), some limestones (fossil shell deposits), and some rock phosphates (fossil guano). \n\nPeat, a precursor to coal, offers no nutritional value to the plants, but improves the soil by aeration and absorbing water. It is sometimes credited as being the most widely use organic fertilizer and by volume is the top organic amendment. \nAnimal sourced materials include both animal manures and residues from the slaughter of animals. Manures are derived from milk-producing dairy animals, egg-producing poultry, and animals raised for meat and hide production. When any animal is butchered, only about 40% to 60% of the live animal is converted to market product, with the remaining 40% to 60% classed as by-products. These by-products of animal slaughter, mostly inedible -- blood, bone, feathers, hides, hoofs, horns, -- can be refined into agricultural fertilizers including bloodmeal, bone meal fish meal, and feather meal.\n\nChicken litter, which consists of chicken manure mixed with sawdust, is an organic fertilizer that has been proposed to be superior for conditioning soil for harvest than synthetic fertilizers.\n\n\"Processed\" organic fertilizers include compost, humic acid, amino acids, and seaweed extracts. Other examples are natural enzyme-digested proteins. Decomposing crop residue (green manure) from prior years is another source of fertility.\n\nOther ARS studies have found that algae used to capture nitrogen and phosphorus runoff from agricultural fields can not only prevent water contamination of these nutrients, but also can be used as an organic fertilizer. ARS scientists originally developed the \"algal turf scrubber\" to reduce nutrient runoff and increase quality of water flowing into streams, rivers, and lakes. They found that this nutrient-rich algae, once dried, can be applied to cucumber and corn seedlings and result in growth comparable to that seen using synthetic fertilizers.\n\nSewage sludge, also known as biosolids, is effuent that has been treated, blended, composted, and sometimes dried until deemed biologically safe. As a fertilzer it is most commonly used on non-agricultural crops such as in silviculture or in soil remediation. Use of biosolids in agricultural production is less common, and the National Organic Program of the USDA (NOP) has ruled that biosolids are not permitted in organic food production in the U.S.; while biologic in origin (vs mineral), sludge is unacceptable due to toxic metal accumulation, pharmaceuticals, hormones, and other factors. \n\nWith concerns about human borne pathogens coupled with a growing preference for flush toilets and centralized sewage treatment, biosolids have been replacing night soil (from human excreta), a traditional organic fertilizer that is minimally processed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27007422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27007422", "title": "Outline of Oceania", "text": "Outline of Oceania\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview and topical guide to Oceania.\n\nOceania is a geographical, and geopolitical, region consisting of numerous lands—mostly islands in the Pacific Ocean and vicinity. The term is also sometimes used to denote a continent comprising Australia and proximate Pacific islands.\n\nThe boundaries of Oceania are defined in a number of ways. Most definitions include parts of Australasia such as Australia, New Zealand, and New Guinea, and parts of Maritime Southeast Asia. Ethnologically, the islands of Oceania are divided into the subregions of Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.\n\n\nGeography of Oceania\n\n\nEnvironment of Oceania\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRegions of Oceania\n\n\nSovereign states and \"dependencies\" (listed in italic) that have at least some territory lying within Oceania:\n\n\" United States Minor Outlying Islands\"\n\n\nDemographics of Oceania\n\n\n\nForeign relations of Oceania\n\n\nLaw of Oceania\n\n\nLocal government in Oceania\n\nHistory of Oceania\n\n\n\nCulture of Oceania\n\n\nLanguages of Oceania\n\nReligion in Oceania\n\nSport in Oceania\n\nEconomy of Oceania\n\nEducation in Oceania\n\n"}
{"id": "3752412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3752412", "title": "Pagus", "text": "Pagus\n\nIn the later Western Roman Empire, following the reorganization of Diocletian, a pagus (compare French \"pays\", Spanish \"pago\", \"a region, terroir\") became the smallest administrative district of a province.\nBy that time the word had long been in use with various meanings. Smith's \"Dictionary\" says of it, \"The meaning of this word cannot be given in precise and absolute terms, partly because we can have no doubt that its significance varied greatly between the earliest and the later times of Roman history, partly because of its application by Latin writers to similar, but not identical, communities outside Italy ...\"\n\nPāgus is a native Latin word from a root pāg-, a lengthened grade of Indo-European *pag-, a verbal root, \"fasten\" (English peg), which in the word may be translated as \"boundary staked out on the ground\". In semantics, *pag- used in pāgus is a stative verb with an unmarked lexical aspect of state resulting from completed action: \"it is having been staked out\", converted into a noun by -us, a type recognizable in English adjectives such as surveyed, defined, noted, etc. English does not use the noun: \"the surveyed\", but Latin characteristically does. Considering that the ancients marked out municipal districts with boundary stones, the root meaning is nothing more than land surveyed for a municipality with stakes and later marked by boundary stones, a process that has not changed over the millennia.\n\nEarlier hypotheses concerning the derivation of pāgus suggested that it is a Greek loan from either ', \"village well\", or ', \"hill-fort\". William Smith opposed these on the grounds that neither the well nor the hill-fort appear in the meaning of pāgus.\n\nThe word \"pagus\" itself is the stem for Romance languages' words for state or country: \"pays\" (French), \"país\" (Spanish) etc.\n\nIn classical Latin, \"pagus\" referred to a country district or to a community within a larger polity; Julius Caesar, for instance, refers to \"pagi\" within the greater polity of the Celtic Helvetii.\n\nThe \"pagus\" and \"vicus\" (a small nucleated settlement or village) are characteristic of pre-urban organization of the countryside. In Latin epigraphy of the Republican era, \"pagus\" refers to local territorial divisions of the peoples of the central Apennines and is assumed to express local social structures as they existed variously.\n\nAs an informal designation for a rural district, \"pagus\" was a flexible term to encompass the cultural horizons of \"folk\" whose lives were circumscribed by their locality: agricultural workers, peasants, slaves. Within the reduced area of Diocletian's subdivided provinces, the \"pagani\" could have several kinds of focal centers. Some were administered from a city, possibly the seat of a bishop; other \"pagi\" were administered from a \"vicus\" that might be no more than a cluster of houses and an informal market; yet other \"pagi\" in the areas of the great agricultural estates (\"latifundia\") were administered through the villa at the center.\n\nThe historian of Christianity Peter Brown has pointed out that in its original sense \"paganus\" meant a civilian or commoner, one who was excluded from power and thus regarded as of lesser account; away from the administrative center, whether that was the seat of a bishop, a walled town or merely a fortified village, such inhabitants of the outlying districts, the \"pagi\", tended to cling to the old ways and gave their name to \"pagans\"; the word was used pejoratively by Christians in the Latin West to demean those who declined to convert from the traditional religions of antiquity.\n\nThe \"pagus\" survived the collapse of the Empire of the West, retained to designate the territory controlled by a Merovingian or Carolingian count (\"comes\"). Within its boundaries, the smaller subdivision of the \"pagus\" was the manor. The majority of modern French \"pays\" are roughly coextensive with the old counties (e.g., county of Comminges, county of Ponthieu, etc.) To take an instance, at the beginning of the 5th century, when the \"Notitia provinciarum et civitatum Galliae\" was drawn up, the Provincia Gallia Lugdunensis Secunda formed the ecclesiastical province of Rouen, with six suffragan sees; it contained seven cities (\"civitates\"). For civil purposes, the province was divided into a number of \"pagi\": the \"civitas\" of Rotomagus (Rouen) formed the \"pagus Rotomagensis\" (Roumois); in addition there were the \"pagi\" \"Caletus\" (Pays de Caux), \"Vilcassinus\" (the Vexin), the \"Tellaus\" (Talou); Bayeux, the pagus Bajocassinus (Bessin, including briefly in the 9th century the \"Otlinga Saxonia\"); that of Lisieux the pagus Lexovinus (Lieuvin); that of Coutances the p. Corilensis and p. Constantinus (Cotentin); that of Avranches the p. Abrincatinus (Avranchin); that of Sez the p. Oximensis (Hiémois), the p. Sagensis and p. Corbonensis (Corbonnais); and that of Evreux the p. Ebroicinus (Evrecin) and p. Madriacensis (pays de Madrie).\n\nThe \"pagus\" was the equivalent of what English-speaking historians sometimes refer to as the \"Carolingian shire\", which in German is the \"Gau\". In Latin texts, a canton of the Helvetic Confederacy is rendered \"pagus\".\n\n"}
{"id": "48927853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48927853", "title": "Passport Island", "text": "Passport Island\n\nKing Fahd Passport Island, or simply Passport Island, is an artificial island located on the Bahrain–Saudi Arabia border. It is west of Bahrain's capital, Manama.\n\nThe bridge opened in 1986 and included the building of the artificial island. Its route was chosen as the shortest path between the island of Bahrain and mainland Saudi Arabia. It is named after King Fahd bin Abdul Aziz Al Saud, then ruler of Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe island is located on the King Fahd Causeway.\nThe artificial island is also named Middle Island, Embankment 4. \nThe buildings of King Fahd Causeway Authority and other government Directorates were erected on the Border Station, as well as two mosques, two Coast Guard towers and two tower restaurants. The border station also has extensive landscaping all around the islands in addition to the services and road stations.\n\nThe Border Station was designed as two islands connected by an isthmus, with the west side designated as Saudi Arabian and the east as Bahraini. The Saudi side of the Border Station has outlets of McDonald's and Kudu.\n\nThe only inhabited place is the staff building on the center of the island. The staff belong to the King Fahd Causeway Authority.\n\nThe island belongs to the Northern Governorate in Bahrain, and the Eastern Province in Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe causeway has two segments from the island:\nThe inhabitants on the island are engaged in Ministry duties for the incoming citizens to the country.\n\nThe Saudi side of the border station has outlets of McDonald's and Kudu and the Bahraini side of the border station has a McDonald's outlet.\n\n"}
{"id": "21409566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21409566", "title": "Peter Herlihy", "text": "Peter Herlihy\n\nPeter Herlihy, University of Kansas geographer, the Associate Director and Graduate Advisor, Latin American Studies, University of Kansas and field director of the controversial U.S. DOD funded México Indígena project known as the Bowman Expeditions, an initiative of the American Geographical Society to organize international teams of geographers to research potentially \"important\" place-based issues and restore the role of geographers as advisers to U.S. government foreign policy makers. The stated objective of the México Indígena project is to produce maps of the “digital human terrain,” of the region's indigenous peoples.\n\n"}
{"id": "24087676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24087676", "title": "Prophet Without Honor", "text": "Prophet Without Honor\n\nProphet Without Honor is a 1939 short documentary film directed by Felix E. Feist. At the 12th Academy Awards, held in 1940, it was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Live Action Short Film, One-Reel. The documentary is about Matthew Fontaine Maury, a U.S. naval officer who created the first maps that charted the oceans' winds and currents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5459717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5459717", "title": "Rubber mulch", "text": "Rubber mulch\n\nRubber mulch is a type of mulch used in gardens and sustainable landscaping that is made from recycled rubber.\n\nRubber mulch generally consists of either waste tire buffings or nuggets of synthetic rubber from tires that are ground up whole, after having their steel bands removed. Almost any tire can be used to make rubber mulch, including passenger vehicle tires and large truck and trailer tires. Buffings are produced from recycled truck tire tread when the remainder of the worn-down tread is removed from the tire prior to retreading. Buffings are generally thin slivers of rubber. Nuggets range in size from 10 mm to 32 mm, or 3/8 inch to 1 inch.\n\nRubber mulch provides several advantages over plant material based mulches. For landscaping and gardening purposes, both nuggets and buffings insulate soil from heat, allowing a 2 or 3 degrees F higher soil temperature difference over wood mulches. Rubber mulch is beneficial for soil moisture, as rubber is non-porous and does not absorb water on its way through to the soil. It also reduces fungus growth and plant growth, and becomes a weed barrier, as weed seeds dehydrate in the mulch before reaching the soil. Neither nuggets nor buffings provide any humus to compacted soil types.\nAnother advantage over plant-material mulches is its elasticity, which gives it a springy quality when used in a fairly thick layer. This makes it a natural choice for playgrounds, where the extra springiness provides additional safety for children when they fall off of playground equipment. Tests have shown that rubber mulch is superior in breaking falls to traditional bark mulches. The International Play Equipment Manufacturers Association has certified some rubber mulches for ASTM F1292-09.\n\nRubber mulch is an alternative to wood mulch, reducing the regional and global carbon footprint by reusing materials that would otherwise end up in landfills. Its durability can be up to twelve times greater than wood mulch, with wood mulch lasting an average of four seasons.\n\n\nIn the US, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has endorsed the use of recycled rubber to cushion the surfaces of children’s playgrounds. In addition, the EPA recently studied air and surface samples at four fields and playgrounds that use recycled tires. The limited study, conducted in August through October 2008, found that the concentrations of materials that made up tire crumb were below levels considered harmful. In addition, the overall study protocol and many of the methods were found to be appropriate and could be implemented in the field. The study, however, did note that due to its limited nature and the large diversity of materials used to make tire crumb, no definitive conclusions could be reached. \n\nThe Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment of the California Environmental Protection Agency tested skin sensitization by playground surfaces made of recycled tires and found no sensitization observed suggesting that these surfaces would not cause skin sensitization in children, nor would they be expected to elicit skin reaction in children already sensitized to latex.\nChemRisk, Inc. in Pittsburgh conducted a review of exposure to recycled tire rubber found on playgrounds and synthetic turf fields. They concluded that no adverse human health or ecological health effects are likely to result from these beneficial reuses of tire materials.\n\nAlthough rubber mulch is generally regarded as safe, recycled tire rubber leachates do contain certain minerals and compounds which may be ecotoxic in high concentrations. Recycled tire mulch can contain trace amounts of various minerals from the tire manufacturing process and other chemicals that may have been picked up during the tire's service life.\nThe greater the surface area of synthetic rubber waste pellets, the greater the potential for breakdown into harmful constituents. For leached tire debris, the (potential) environmental impact of the ingredients zinc and organic toxicants has been demonstrated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23213003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23213003", "title": "Stage (hydrology)", "text": "Stage (hydrology)\n\nIn hydrology, stage refers to the water level in a river or stream with respect to a chosen reference height. Stage is important because direct measurements of river discharge are very difficult while water surface elevation measurements are comparatively easy. In order to convert stage into discharge, scientists can use a combination of tracer studies, observations of high water marks, numerical modeling, and/or satellite or aerial photography. The relationship between stage and discharge is called a rating curve.\n\n"}
{"id": "49146502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49146502", "title": "Szczęśliwicka Hill", "text": "Szczęśliwicka Hill\n\nSzczęśliwicka Hill (Mound Szczesliwicki) is an artificially created hill with a height of above sea level. It is in Szczęśliwice Park, in the western part of Warsaw's Ochota district and it is the highest hill in the city.\n\nThe biggest attraction of the hill is skiing at the Szczęśliwice Centre.\n\nThe hill was created as a dump for rubble from the destruction of Warsaw during the war, and later as a dump for trash. From 1967 to 1970 the dump was covered with earth and a park was created. By the 1980s, an illuminated slope with a ski lift already existed. The hill was 138 meters above sea level.\n\nIn June 1997, the resort was leased for 30 years to Energopol Trade SA, which made the hill 14 m taller (raising it to 152 m above sea level) and built a chairlift.\n\nIn the winter of 2005/2006 the center was closed as a result of conflict between the tenant and the City of Warsaw. In subsequent seasons 2006/07 and 2007/08 was opened for several winter months until September 2008, when an agreement was reached under which the city took over the equipment and buildings.\n\nThe ski slope has an area of 9,500 square meters covered with a Dendix mat made in England, which at zero and positive temperatures is sprayed with a \"water spray\" to reduce friction and improve slipperiness, while at sub-zero temperatures and with the absence of, or low amounts of snow, can be covered by a snow cannon (initially installed in 1999).\n\nThe camber (difference in height) of the slope is 44 m, which at its approximately 227 m gives the average slope of 19% (11°), which in turn qualifies the route as blue (easy). The maximum slope is 17°.\n\nAt the bottom of the slope there are isolated practice runs with a length of approximately 60 m.\n\nThe site has a chairlift with a capacity for 1200 people per hour (in winter) and 782 (in summer), and a ski lift with a capacity for 700 people per hour (winter and summer).\n\nThere is an observation deck at the foot of the slope which is about 900 m².\n\nThe hill is one of the 3 year-round ski sites in Poland, along with one in Poznań and the other in Bytom.\n\n"}
{"id": "56159977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56159977", "title": "Tagaytay–Nasugbu Highway", "text": "Tagaytay–Nasugbu Highway\n\nThe Tagaytay–Nasugbu Highway (or Tagaytay–Nasugbu Road) is a , two-to-four lane, secondary highway in the provinces of Cavite and Batangas, Philippines, that connects the city of Tagaytay in Cavite and the municipality of Nasugbu in Batangas.\n\nUnder the implementation of the route numbering system by the Department of Public Works and Highways in 2014, the entire road is a component of National Route 410 (N410) in the Cavite province, and National Route 407 (N407) in the Batangas province of the Philippine highway network.\n\nThe highway starts at Tagaytay Rotunda, where it intersects with Tagaytay–Calamba Road and Tagaytay–Talisay Road.\n\n"}
{"id": "19083445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19083445", "title": "Villa Gamberaia", "text": "Villa Gamberaia\n\nVilla Gamberaia is a seventeenth-century villa near Settignano, outside Florence, Tuscany, Italy.\n\nIt is it characterized now by eighteenth-century terraced garden. The setting was praised by Edith Wharton, who saw it after years of tenant occupation with its parterre planted with roses and cabbages, and by Georgina Masson, who saw it restored by Sig. Marcello Marchi after its near ruin during the Second World War. to the immaculately clipped and tailored condition today.\n\nThe villa, originally a farmhouse; was owned by Matteo Gamberelli, a stonemason, at the beginning of the fifteenth century. His sons Giovanni and Bernardo became famous architects under the name of Rossellino. After Bernardo's son sold it to Jacopo Riccialbani in 1597, the house was greatly enlarged, then almost completely rebuilt by the following owner, Zenobi Lapi; documents of his time mention a \"limonaia\" and the turfed bowling green that is part of the garden layout today.\n\nIn 1717 La Gamberaia passed to the Capponi family. Andrea Capponi laid out the long bowling green, planted cypresses, especially in a long allée leading to the monumental fountain enclosed within the \"bosco\" (wooded area), and peopled the garden with statues, as can be seen in an etching by Giuseppe Zocchi dedicated to marchese Scipione Capponi, which shows the cypress avenue half-grown and the bowling green flanked by mature trees that have since gone. The villa already stood on its raised platform, extended to one side, where the water parterre is today. The parterre was laid out with clipped \"broderies\" in the French manner in the eighteenth century, as a detailed estate map described by Georgina Masson demonstrates. Olive groves have always occupied the slopes below the garden, which has a distant view of the roofs and towers of Florence.\n\nThe monumental fountain set into a steep hillside at one lateral flank of this terraced garden has a seated god flanked by lions in stucco relief in a niche decorated with pebble mosaics and rusticated stonework.\n\nEdith Wharton attributed the preservation of the garden at the Villa Gamberaia to its \"obscure fate\" during the nineteenth century, when more prominent gardens with richer owners, in more continuous attendance, had their historic features improved clean away. Shortly after Wharton saw it, the villa was purchased in 1895 by Princess Jeanne Ghyka, sister of Queen Natalia of Serbia, who lived here with her American companion, Miss Blood, and thoroughly restored it;. It was she who substituted pools of water for the parterre beds.\n\nDuring World War II, the villa was almost completely destroyed. Marcello Marchi restored it after the war, using old prints, maps and photographs for guidance.\n\n\n"}
