{"id": "1699025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1699025", "title": "Aerial application", "text": "Aerial application\n\nAerial application, or what was formerly referred to as crop dusting, involves spraying crops with crop protection products from an agricultural aircraft. Planting certain types of seed are also included in aerial application. The specific spreading of fertilizer is also known as \"aerial topdressing \"in some countries. Many countries have severely limited aerial application of pesticides and other products because of environmental and public health hazards like spray drift; most notably, the European Union banned it outright with a few highly restricted exceptions in 2009, effectively ending the practice in all member states.\n\nAgricultural aircraft are highly specialized, purpose-built aircraft. Today's agricultural aircraft are often powered by turbine engines of up to 1500 hp and can carry as much as of crop protection product. Helicopters are sometimes used, and some aircraft serve double duty as water bombers in areas prone to wildfires. (These aircraft are referred to as SEAT, \"single engine air tankers\").\n\nThe first known aerial application of agricultural materials was by John Chaytor, who in 1906 spread seed over a swamped valley floor in Wairoa, New Zealand, using a hot air balloon with mobile tethers. Aerial sowing of seed still continues to this day with cover crop applications and rice planting.\n\nThe first known use of a heavier-than-air machine to disperse products occurred on 3 August 1921. Crop dusting was developed under the joint efforts of the US Agriculture Department, and the US Army Signal Corps's research station at McCook Field in Dayton, Ohio. Under the direction of McCook engineer Etienne Dormoy, a United States Army Air Service Curtiss JN4 Jenny piloted by John A. Macready was modified at McCook Field to spread lead arsenate to kill catalpa sphinx caterpillars at a Catalapa farm near Troy, Ohio in the United States. The first test was considered highly successful. The first commercial operations were begun in 1924, in Macon, Georgia, by Huff-Daland Crop Dusting, which was co-founded by McCook Field test pilot Lt. Harold R. Harris. Use of insecticide and fungicide for crop dusting slowly spread in the Americas and to a lesser extent other nations in the 1930s. The name 'crop dusting' originated here, as actual dust was spread across the crops. Today, aerial applicators use liquid crop protection products in very small doses.\n\nAerial topdressing is the aerial application of fertilisers over farmland using agricultural aircraft. It was developed in New Zealand in the 1940s and rapidly adopted elsewhere in the 1950s.\n\nIn 1951, Leland Snow begins designing the first aircraft specifically built for aerial application, the S-1. In 1957, The Grumman G-164 Ag-Cat is the first aircraft designed by a major company for ag aviation. Nowadays, the most common agricultural aircraft are the Air Tractor, Cessna Ag-wagon, Gippsland GA200, Grumman Ag Cat, PZL-106 KRUK, M-18 Dromader, PAC Fletcher, Piper PA-36 Pawnee Brave, Embraer EMB 202 Ipanema, and Rockwell Thrush Commander but multi-purpose helicopters are also used.\n\nBeginning in the late 1990s, unmanned aerial vehicles are also being used for agricultural spraying. This phenomenon started in Japan and South Korea, where mountainous terrain and relatively small family-owned farms required lower-cost and higher precision spraying. As of 2014, the use of UAV crop dusters, such as the Yamaha R-MAX, is being expanded to the United States for use in spraying of vineyards. Now they work long hours(10-12 hours a day) and almost everyday of the week.\n\nSince the 1970s, multiple countries started to limit or ban aerial application of pesticides, fertilizers and other products out of environmental and public health concerns, in particular from spray drift. Most notably, in 2009 the European Union prohibited aerial spraying of pesticides with a few highly restricted exceptions in article 9 of \"Directive 2009/128/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for Community action to achieve the sustainable use of pesticides\", which effectively ended most aerial application in all member states and overseas territories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39735602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39735602", "title": "Agreement on the Transfer of Corpses", "text": "Agreement on the Transfer of Corpses\n\nThe Agreement on the Transfer of Corpses is a 1973 multilateral treaty whereby states agree to rules for the transport of human corpses across international borders. It is a treaty of the Council of Europe and as of 2013 has only been ratified by European states, but it is open to ratification by any state in the world. The Agreement was intended to replace and simplify the requirements of the 1937 International Convention on the Transport of Corpses.\n\nThe Agreement mandates that every corpse being transported across international borders shall be accompanied by a \"laissez-passer\" document issued by the state in which the transport begins. Transport may only be made in an impervious coffin that contains only the corpse and such personal effects as are to be buried or cremated with the corpse. If the person died of an infectious disease, the corpse must be wrapped in material that has been impregnated with an antiseptic solution. The Agreement also establishes the minimal standards for the coffins used for transporting corpses across international borders.\n\nThe Agreement does not apply to the transport of cremation ashes.\n\nThe Agreement was concluded in Strasbourg on 26 October 1973. Since then, it has been signed by 23 states. It entered into force on 11 November 1975 and has been ratified by the following 23 states:\n\nGermany signed the Agreement in 1974 but has not ratified it. The most recent ratification was by the Czech Republic in February 2012.\n\nThe 1937 International Convention on the Transport of Corpses addresses the same issues as the 1973 Agreement. The 1973 Agreement simplifies some of the procedures and requirements that were first established in the 1937 Convention. For states that have ratified both treaties, the 1973 supersedes the 1937 Convention. However, the 1937 Convention remains in force for the following states that have ratified it but not the 1973 Agreement:\n"}
{"id": "216211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216211", "title": "Agroecology", "text": "Agroecology\n\nAgroecology is the study of ecological processes applied to agricultural production systems. Bringing ecological principles to bear in agroecosystems can suggest novel management approaches that would not otherwise be considered. The term is often used imprecisely and may refer to \"a science, a movement, [or] a practice\". Agroecologists study a variety of agroecosystems. The field of agroecology is not associated with any one particular method of farming, whether it be organic, integrated, or conventional, intensive or extensive. However, it has much more in common with organic and integrated farming.\n\nAgroecologists do not unanimously oppose technology or inputs in agriculture but instead assess how, when, and if technology can be used in conjunction with natural, social and human assets. Agroecology proposes a context- or site-specific manner of studying agroecosystems, and as such, it recognizes that there is no universal formula or recipe for the success and maximum well-being of an agroecosystem. Thus, agroecology is not defined by certain management practices, such as the use of natural enemies in place of insecticides, or polyculture in place of monoculture.\n\nInstead, agroecologists may study questions related to the four system properties of agroecosystems: productivity, stability, sustainability and equitability. As opposed to disciplines that are concerned with only one or some of these properties, agroecologists see all four properties as interconnected and integral to the success of an agroecosystem. Recognizing that these properties are found on varying spatial scales, agroecologists do not limit themselves to the study of agroecosystems at any one scale: gene-organism-population-community-ecosystem-landscape-biome, field-farm-community-region-state-country-continent-global.\n\nAgroecologists study these four properties through an interdisciplinary lens, using natural sciences to understand elements of agroecosystems such as soil properties and plant-insect interactions, as well as using social sciences to understand the effects of farming practices on rural communities, economic constraints to developing new production methods, or cultural factors determining farming practices.\n\nAgroecologists do not always agree about what agroecology is or should be in the long-term. Different definitions of the term agroecology can be distinguished largely by the specificity with which one defines the term \"ecology\", as well as the term's potential political connotations. Definitions of agroecology, therefore, may be first grouped according to the specific contexts within which they situate agriculture.\nAgroecology is defined by the OECD as \"the study of the relation of agricultural crops and environment.\" This definition refers to the \"-ecology\" part of \"agroecology\" narrowly as the natural environment. Following this definition, an agroecologist would study agriculture's various relationships with soil health, water quality, air quality, meso- and micro-fauna, surrounding flora, environmental toxins, and other environmental contexts.\n\nA more common definition of the word can be taken from Dalgaard et al., who refer to agroecology as the study of the interactions between plants, animals, humans and the environment within agricultural systems. Consequently, agroecology is inherently multidisciplinary, including factors from agronomy, ecology, sociology, economics and related disciplines. In this case, the \"-ecology\" portion of \"agroecology is defined broadly to include social, cultural, and economic contexts as well. Francis et al. also expand the definition in the same way, but put more emphasis on the notion of food systems.\n\nAgroecology is also defined differently according to geographic location. In the global south, the term often carries overtly political connotations. Such political definitions of the term usually ascribe to it the goals of social and economic justice; special attention, in this case, is often paid to the traditional farming knowledge of indigenous populations. North American and European uses of the term sometimes avoid the inclusion of such overtly political goals. In these cases, agroecology is seen more strictly as a scientific discipline with less specific social goals.\n\nThis approach is derived from the science of ecology primarily based on population ecology, which over the past three decades has been displacing the ecosystems biology of Odum. Buttel explains the main difference between the two categories, saying that \"the application of population ecology to agroecology involves the primacy not only of analyzing agroecosystems from the perspective of the population dynamics of their constituent species, and their relationships to climate and biogeochemistry, but also there is a major emphasis placed on the role of genetics.\"\n\nThis concept was proposed by political ecologist Josep Garí to recognise and uphold the integrated agro-ecological practices of many indigenous peoples, who simultaneously and sustainably safeguard, manage and use ecosystems for agricultural, food, biodiversity and cultural purposes at the same time. Indigenous agroecologies are not systems and practices halted in time, but keep co-evolving with new knowledge and resources, such as that provided by development projects, research initiatives and agro-biodiversity exchanges. In fact, the first agro-ecologists were indigenous peoples that advocated development policies and programmes to support their systems, rather than replacing them.\n\nRather than viewing agroecology as a subset of agriculture, Wojtkowski takes a more encompassing perspective. In this, natural ecology and agroecology are the major headings under ecology. Natural ecology is the study of organisms as they interact with and within natural environments. Correspondingly, agroecology is the basis for the land-use sciences. Here humans are the primary governing force for organisms within planned and managed, mostly terrestrial, environments.\n\nAs key headings, natural ecology and agroecology provide the theoretical base for their respective sciences. These theoretical bases overlap but differ in a major way. Economics has no role in the functioning of natural ecosystems whereas economics sets direction and purpose in agroecology.\n\nUnder agroecology are the three land-use sciences, agriculture, forestry, and agroforestry. Although these use their plant components in different ways, they share the same theoretical core.\n\nBeyond this, the land-use sciences further subdivide. The subheadings include agronomy, organic farming, traditional agriculture, permaculture, and silviculture. Within this system of subdivisions, agroecology is philosophically neutral. The importance lies in providing a theoretical base hitherto lacking in the land-use sciences. This allows progress in biocomplex agroecosystems including the multi-species plantations of forestry and agroforestry.\n\nTo arrive at a point of view about a particular way of farming, an agroecologist would first seek to understand the contexts in which the farm(s) is(are) involved. Each farm may be inserted in a unique combination of factors or contexts. Each farmer may have their own premises about the meanings of an agricultural endeavor, and these meanings might be different from those of agroecologists. Generally, farmers seek a configuration that is viable in multiple contexts, such as family, financial, technical, political, logistical, market, environmental, spiritual. Agroecologists want to understand the behavior of those who seek livelihoods from plant and animal increase, acknowledging the organization and planning that is required to run a farm.\n\nBecause organic agriculture proclaims to sustain the health of soils, ecosystems, and people, it has much in common with Agroecology; this does not mean that Agroecology is synonymous with organic agriculture, nor that Agroecology views organic farming as the 'right' way of farming. Also, it is important to point out that there are large differences in organic standards among countries and certifying agencies.\n\nThree of the main areas that agroecologists would look at in farms, would be: the environmental impacts, animal welfare issues, and the social aspects.\n\nEnvironmental impacts caused by organic and non-organic milk production can vary significantly. For both cases, there are positive and negative environmental consequences.\n\nCompared to conventional milk production, organic milk production tends to have lower eutrophication potential per ton of milk or per hectare of farmland, because it potentially reduces leaching of nitrates (NO) and phosphates (PO) due to lower fertilizer application rates. Because organic milk production reduces pesticides utilization, it increases land use per ton of milk due to decreased crop yields per hectare. Mainly due to the lower level of concentrates given to cows in organic herds, organic dairy farms generally produce less milk per cow than conventional dairy farms. Because of the increased use of roughage and the, on-average, lower milk production level per cow, some research has connected organic milk production with increases in the emission of methane.\n\nAnimal welfare issues vary among dairy farms and are not necessarily related to the way of producing milk (organically or conventionally).\n\nA key component of animal welfare is freedom to perform their innate (natural) behavior, and this is stated in one of the basic principles of organic agriculture. Also, there are other aspects of animal welfare to be considered – such as freedom from hunger, thirst, discomfort, injury, fear, distress, disease and pain. Because organic standards require loose housing systems, adequate bedding, restrictions on the area of slatted floors, a minimum forage proportion in the ruminant diets, and tend to limit stocking densities both on pasture and in housing for dairy cows, they potentially promote good foot and hoof health. Some studies show lower incidence of placenta retention, milk fever, abomasums displacement and other diseases in organic than in conventional dairy herds. However, the level of infections by parasites in organically managed herds is generally higher than in conventional herds.\n\nSocial aspects of dairy enterprises include life quality of farmers, of farm labor, of rural and urban communities, and also includes public health.\n\nBoth organic and non-organic farms can have good and bad implications for the life quality of all the different people involved in that food chain. Issues like labor conditions, labor hours and labor rights, for instance, do not depend on the organic/non-organic characteristic of the farm; they can be more related to the socio-economical and cultural situations in which the farm is inserted, instead.\n\nAs for the public health or food safety concern, organic foods are intended to be healthy, free of contaminations and free from agents that could cause human diseases. Organic milk is meant to have no chemical residues to consumers, and the restrictions on the use of antibiotics and chemicals in organic food production has the purpose to accomplish this goal. Although dairy cows in both organic and conventional farming practices can be exposed to pathogens, it has been shown that, because antibiotics are not permitted as a preventative measure in organic practices, there are far fewer antibiotic resistant pathogens on organic farms. This dramatically increases the efficacy of antibiotics when/if they are necessary.\n\nIn an organic dairy farm, an agroecologist could evaluate the following:\n\n\nNo-tillage is one of the components of conservation agriculture practices and is considered more environmental friendly than complete tillage. There is a general consensus that no-till can increase carbon content of topsoils, especially when combined with cover crops, but whether this improves the function of soils as a carbon sink is contested. \n\nNo-till can contribute to higher soil organic matter and organic carbon content in soils, though reports of no-effects of no-tillage in organic matter and organic carbon soil contents also exist, depending on environmental and crop conditions. In addition, no-till can indirectly reduce CO emissions by decreasing the use of fossil fuels.\n\nMost crops can benefit from the practice of no-till, but not all crops are suitable for complete no-till agriculture. Crops that do not perform well when competing with other plants that grow in untilled soil in their early stages can be best grown by using other conservation tillage practices, like a combination of strip-till with no-till areas. Also, crops which harvestable portion grows underground can have better results with strip-tillage, mainly in soils which are hard for plant roots to penetrate into deeper layers to access water and nutrients.\n\nThe benefits provided by no-tillage to predators may lead to larger predator populations, which is a good way to control pests (biological control), but also can facilitate predation of the crop itself. In corn crops, for instance, predation by caterpillars can be higher in no-till than in conventional tillage fields.\n\nIn places with rigorous winter, untilled soil can take longer to warm and dry in spring, which may delay planting to less ideal dates. Another factor to be considered is that organic residue from the prior year's crops lying on the surface of untilled fields can provide a favorable environment to pathogens, helping to increase the risk of transmitting diseases to the future crop. And because no-till farming provides good environment for pathogens, insects and weeds, it can lead farmers to a more intensive use of chemicals for pest control. Other disadvantages of no-till include underground rot, low soil temperatures and high moisture.\n\nBased on the balance of these factors, and because each farm has different problems, agroecologists will not attest that only no-till or complete tillage is the right way of farming. Yet, these are not the only possible choices regarding soil preparation, since there are intermediate practices such as strip-till, mulch-till and ridge-till, all of them – just as no-till – categorized as conservation tillage. Agroecologists, then, will evaluate the need of different practices for the contexts in which each farm is inserted.\n\nIn a no-till system, an agroecologist could ask the following:\n\n\nThe notions and ideas relating to crop ecology have been around since at least 1911 when F.H. King released \"Farmers of Forty Centuries\". King was one of the pioneers as a proponent of more quantitative methods for characterization of water relations and physical properties of soils. In the late 1920s the attempt to merge agronomy and ecology was born with the development of the field of crop ecology. Crop ecology's main concern was where crops would be best grown. Actually, it was only in 1928 that agronomy and ecology were formally linked by Klages.\n\nThe first mention of the term agroecology was in 1928, with the publication of the term by Bensin in 1928. The book of Tischler (1965), was probably the first to be actually titled 'agroecology'. He analysed the different components (plants, animals, soils and climate) and their interactions within an agroecosystem as well as the impact of human agricultural management on these components. Other books dealing with agroecology, but without using the term explicitly were published by the German zoologist Friederichs (1930) with his book on agricultural zoology and related ecological/environmental factors for plant protection, and by American crop physiologist Hansen in 1939 when both used the word as a synonym for the application of ecology within agriculture.\n\nGliessman mentions that post-WWII, groups of scientists with ecologists gave more focus to experiments in the natural environment, while agronomists dedicated their attention to the cultivated systems in agriculture. According to Gliessman, the two groups kept their research and interest apart until books and articles using the concept of agroecosystems and the word agroecology started to appear in 1970.\nDalgaard explains the different points of view in ecology schools, and the fundamental differences, which set the basis for the development of agroecology. The early ecology school of Henry Gleason investigated plant populations focusing in the hierarchical levels of the organism under study.\n\nFriederich Clement's ecology school, however included the organism in question as well as the higher hierarchical levels in its investigations, a \"landscape perspective\". However, the ecological schools where the roots of agroecology lie are even broader in nature. The ecology school of Tansley, whose view included both the biotic organism and their environment, is the one from which the concept of agroecosystems emerged in 1974 with Harper.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s the increasing awareness of how humans manage the landscape and its consequences set the stage for the necessary cross between agronomy and ecology. Even though, in many ways the environmental movement in the US was a product of the times, the spread an environmental awareness of the unintended consequences of changing ecological processes. Works such as \"Silent Spring\", and \"The Limits to Growth\", and changes in legislation such as the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, and the National Environmental Policy Act caused the public to be aware of societal growth patterns, agricultural production, and the overall capacity of the system.\n\nAfter the 1970s, when agronomists saw the value of ecology and ecologists began to use the agricultural systems as study plots, studies in agroecology grew more rapidly. Gliessman describes that the innovative work of Prof. Efraim Hernandez X., who developed research based on indigenous systems of knowledge in Mexico, led to education programs in agroecology. In 1977 Prof. Efraim Hernandez X. explained that modern agricultural systems had lost their ecological foundation when socio-economic factors became the only driving force in the food system. The acknowledgement that the socio-economic interactions are indeed one of the fundamental components of any agroecosystems came to light in 1982, with the article Agroecologia del Tropico Americano by Montaldo. The author argues that the socio-economic context cannot be separated from the agricultural systems when designing agricultural practices.\n\nIn 1995 Edens et al. in Sustainable Agriculture and Integrated Farming Systems solidified this idea proving his point by devoting special sections to economics of the systems, ecological impacts, and ethics and values in agriculture. Actually, 1985 ended up being a fertile and creative year for the new discipline. For instance in the same year, Miguel Altieri integrated how consolidation of the farms, and cropping systems impact pest populations. In addition, Gliessman highlighted that socio-economic, technological, and ecological components give rise to producer choices of food production systems. These pioneering agroecologists have helped to frame the foundation of what we today consider the interdisciplinary field of agroecology and have led to advances in a number of farming systems. In Asian rice, for example, crop diversification by growing flowering crops in strips beside rice fields has recently been demonstrated to reduce pests so effectively (by the flower nectar attracting and supporting parasitoids and predators) that insecticide spraying is reduced by 70%, yields increase by 5%, together resulting in an economic advantage of 7.5% (Gurr et al., 2016).\n\nThe principles of agroecology are expressed differently depending on local ecological and social contexts.\n\nLatin America's experiences with North American Green Revolution agricultural techniques have opened space for agroecologists. Traditional or indigenous knowledge represents a wealth of possibility for agroecologists, including \"exchange of wisdoms\". See Miguel Alteiri's \"Enhancing the Productivity of Latin American Traditional Peasant Farming Systems Through an Agroecological Approach\" for information on agroecology in Latin America.\n\nAgroecological techniques and knowledge played an important role in solving the severe food crisis in Cuba following the dissolution of the Soviet Union. As part of Cuba's urban agricultural movement, agroecology is integral to production in Cuban organopónicos.\n\nHistorically, agroecology has had low traction in Africa, as governments, international organisations, extension services and farmers' organisations tended to focus on issues of inputs and outputs as the defining factors to deal with recurrent food crises and chronic malnutrition in the continent. Agrocecology was only a minor proposal from a few, non-governmental, small-scale projects and a sort of \"experimental\" idea of the Farmer Field Schools programme.\n\nIn the early 2000s, when the AIDS pandemic was creating a major rural crisis across Africa, Josep Garí proposed FAO to consider an agroecological approach as the most effective way to empower farmers cope with the impacts of the AIDS pandemic on agriculture and food production: in particular, he proposed agro-biodiversity as a key resource and knowledge for farmers to address the labour and malnutrition crisis. The proposal was rapidly adopted by the Farmer Field Schools scheme across the world, and even presented and translated in China.\n\nMost recently, agroecology has started to permeate projects and discourses on farming and natural-resource management in Africa. In 2011, the 1st encounter of agroecology trainers took place in Zimbabwe and issued the Shashe Declaration.\n\nMost of the historical farming in Madagascar has been conducted by indigenous peoples. The French colonial period disturbed a very small percentage of land area, and even included some useful experiments in Sustainable forestry. Slash-and-burn techniques, a component of some shifting cultivation systems have been practised by natives in Madagascar for centuries. As of 2006 some of the major agricultural products from slash-and-burn methods are wood, charcoal and grass for Zebu grazing. These practices have taken perhaps the greatest toll on land fertility since the end of French rule, mainly due to overpopulation pressures.\n\n\nAdvances in Agroecology Book Series\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42273296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42273296", "title": "Ananda Galappatti", "text": "Ananda Galappatti\n\nAnanda Galappatti is a medical anthropologist and practitioner in the field of mental health in Sri Lanka. He received the Ramon Magsaysay Award for his efforts.\n"}
{"id": "7188715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7188715", "title": "Bethany Reservoir", "text": "Bethany Reservoir\n\nThe Bethany Reservoir is located northeast of Livermore, California, USA, on the California Aqueduct. It serves as the forebay for the South Bay Pumping Plant that feeds the South Bay Aqueduct.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13799972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13799972", "title": "Catholic Health Association of the United States", "text": "Catholic Health Association of the United States\n\nThe Catholic Health Association of the United States (CHA) was founded in 1915 as the Catholic Hospital Association of the United States and Canada. The association has offices in Washington, D.C. and St. Louis, Missouri. \n\nThe association is a ministry of the Roman Catholic Church. Comprising more than 600 hospitals and 1,400 long-term care and other health facilities in all 50 states, the association is the largest group of non-profit health care providers in the nation.\n\nEvery year, one in six hospitalized patients in the United States is cared for in a Catholic health care facility. In addition, thousands of elders in the U.S. live and are cared for in Catholic long-term care and other continuum of care facilities.\n\nThe association is led by Sister Carol Keehan, a member of the Daughters of Charity, who assumed her duties as president and chief executive officer in 2005.\n\nCHA created a controversy within the Catholic Church when it defied the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and came out in support of Barack Obama's health care overhaul, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The USCCB believed the overhaul could provide for taxpayer funded abortion; the CHA said this was a \"false claim\". CHA was criticized for subverting the bishops' authority. At least one bishop, Thomas Joseph Tobin of the Diocese of Providence, withdrew his diocese's hospitals from membership in the CHA, saying, \"Your enthusiastic support of the legislation, in contradiction of the bishops of the United States, provided an excuse for members of Congress, misled the public and caused a serious scandal for many members of the church\" and said it was \"embarrassing\" to be associated with the CHA. \n\nArchbishop Joseph Naumann said Keehan, who met with Obama before endorsing the bill, was \"incredibly naive or disingenuous\" for saying that the bill prevented taxpayer funding of abortions. Cardinal Francis George, who was president of the USCCB at the time, reported that he and other bishops tried to reach out to Keehan both before and after the vote; he also said that in choosing Obama over the Church, she had \"weakened the moral voice of the bishops in the U.S.\"\n\nCatholic hospitals are also subject of an ongoing controversy centered around emergency help for miscarrying women.\n"}
{"id": "7738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738", "title": "Chiropractic", "text": "Chiropractic\n\nChiropractic is a form of alternative medicine mostly concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of mechanical disorders of the musculoskeletal system, especially the spine. Proponents claim that such disorders affect general health via the nervous system, through vertebral subluxation, claims which are demonstrably false. The main chiropractic treatment technique involves manual therapy, especially spinal manipulation therapy (SMT), manipulations of other joints and soft tissues. Its foundation is at odds with mainstream medicine, and chiropractic is sustained by pseudoscientific ideas such as subluxation and \"innate intelligence\" that reject science. Chiropractors are not medical doctors.\nNumerous controlled clinical studies of treatments used by chiropractors have been conducted, with conflicting results. Systematic reviews of this research have not found evidence that chiropractic manipulation is effective, with the possible exception of treatment for back pain. A critical evaluation found that collectively, spinal manipulation was ineffective at treating any condition. Spinal manipulation may be cost-effective for sub-acute or chronic low back pain but the results for acute low back pain were insufficient. The efficacy and cost-effectiveness of maintenance chiropractic care are unknown. There is not sufficient data to establish the safety of chiropractic manipulations. It is frequently associated with mild to moderate adverse effects, with serious or fatal complications in rare cases. There is controversy regarding the degree of risk of vertebral artery dissection, which can lead to stroke and death, from cervical manipulation. Several deaths have been associated with this technique and it has been suggested that the relationship is causative, a claim which is disputed by many chiropractors.\nChiropractic is well established in the United States, Canada, and Australia. It overlaps with other manual-therapy professions such as osteopathy and physical therapy. Most who seek chiropractic care do so for low back pain. Back and neck pain are considered the specialties of chiropractic, but many chiropractors treat ailments other than musculoskeletal issues. Many chiropractors describe themselves as primary care providers, but the chiropractic clinical training does not support the requirements to be considered primary care providers, so their role on primary care is limited and disputed. Chiropractic has two main groups: \"straights\", now the minority, emphasize vitalism, \"innate intelligence\", and consider vertebral subluxations to be the cause of all disease; \"mixers\", the majority, are more open to mainstream views and conventional medical techniques, such as exercise, massage, and ice therapy.\nD. D. Palmer founded chiropractic in the 1890s, after saying he received it from \"the other world\", and his son B. J. Palmer helped to expand it in the early 20th century. Throughout its history, chiropractic has been controversial. Despite the overwhelming evidence that vaccination is an effective public health intervention, among chiropractors there are significant disagreements over the subject, which has led to negative impacts on both public vaccination and mainstream acceptance of chiropractic. The American Medical Association called chiropractic an \"unscientific cult\" in 1966 and boycotted it until losing an antitrust case in 1987. Chiropractic has had a strong political base and sustained demand for services; in recent decades, it has gained more legitimacy and greater acceptance among conventional physicians and health plans in the United States.\n\nChiropractic is generally categorized as complementary and alternative medicine (CAM), which focuses on manipulation of the musculoskeletal system, especially the spine. Its founder, D.D. Palmer, called it \"a science of healing without drugs\".\n\nChiropractic's origins lie in the folk medicine of bonesetting, and as it evolved it incorporated vitalism, spiritual inspiration and rationalism. Its early philosophy was based on deduction from irrefutable doctrine, which helped distinguish chiropractic from medicine, provided it with legal and political defenses against claims of practicing medicine without a license, and allowed chiropractors to establish themselves as an autonomous profession. This \"straight\" philosophy, taught to generations of chiropractors, rejects the inferential reasoning of the scientific method, and relies on deductions from vitalistic first principles rather than on the materialism of science. However, most practitioners tend to incorporate scientific research into chiropractic, and most practitioners are \"mixers\" who attempt to combine the materialistic reductionism of science with the metaphysics of their predecessors and with the holistic paradigm of wellness. A 2008 commentary proposed that chiropractic actively divorce itself from the straight philosophy as part of a campaign to eliminate untestable dogma and engage in critical thinking and evidence-based research.\n\nAlthough a wide diversity of ideas exist among chiropractors, they share the belief that the spine and health are related in a fundamental way, and that this relationship is mediated through the nervous system. Some chiropractors claim spinal manipulation can have an effect of a variety of ailments such as irritable bowel syndrome and asthma.\n\nChiropractic philosophy includes the following perspectives:\n\nHolism assumes that health is affected by everything in an individual's environment; some sources also include a spiritual or existential dimension. In contrast, reductionism in chiropractic reduces causes and cures of health problems to a single factor, vertebral subluxation. Homeostasis emphasizes the body's inherent self-healing abilities. Chiropractic's early notion of innate intelligence can be thought of as a metaphor for homeostasis.\n\nA large number of chiropractors fear that if they do not separate themselves from the traditional vitalistic concept of innate intelligence, chiropractic will continue to be seen as a fringe profession. A variant of chiropractic called naprapathy originated in Chicago in the early twentieth century. It holds that manual manipulation of soft tissue can reduce \"interference\" in the body and thus improve health.\n\n\"Straight\" chiropractors adhere to the philosophical principles set forth by D.D. and B.J. Palmer, and retain metaphysical definitions and vitalistic qualities. Straight chiropractors believe that vertebral subluxation leads to interference with an \"innate intelligence\" exerted via the human nervous system and is a primary underlying risk factor for many diseases. Straights view the medical diagnosis of patient complaints (which they consider to be the \"secondary effects\" of subluxations) to be unnecessary for chiropractic treatment. Thus, straight chiropractors are concerned primarily with the detection and correction of vertebral subluxation via adjustment and do not \"mix\" other types of therapies into their practice style. Their philosophy and explanations are metaphysical in nature and they prefer to use traditional chiropractic lexicon terminology (e.g., perform spinal analysis, detect subluxation, correct with adjustment). They prefer to remain separate and distinct from mainstream health care. Although considered the minority group, \"they have been able to transform their status as purists and heirs of the lineage into influence dramatically out of proportion to their numbers.\"\n\n\"Mixer\" chiropractors \"mix\" diagnostic and treatment approaches from chiropractic, medical and/or osteopathic viewpoints and make up the majority of chiropractors. Unlike straight chiropractors, mixers believe subluxation is one of many causes of disease, and hence they tend to be open to mainstream medicine. Many of them incorporate mainstream medical diagnostics and employ conventional treatments including techniques of physical therapy such as exercise, stretching, massage, ice packs, electrical muscle stimulation, therapeutic ultrasound, and moist heat. Some mixers also use techniques from alternative medicine, including nutritional supplements, acupuncture, homeopathy, herbal remedies, and biofeedback.\n\nAlthough mixers are the majority group, many of them retain belief in vertebral subluxation as shown in a 2003 survey of 1100 North American chiropractors, which found that 88% wanted to retain the term \"vertebral subluxation complex\", and that when asked to estimate the percent of disorders of internal organs (such as the heart, the lungs, or the stomach) that subluxation significantly contributes to, the mean response was 62%. A 2008 survey of 6,000 American chiropractors demonstrated that most chiropractors seem to believe that a subluxation-based clinical approach may be of limited utility for addressing visceral disorders, and greatly favored non-subluxation-based clinical approaches for such conditions. The same survey showed that most chiropractors generally believed that the majority of their clinical approach for addressing musculoskeletal/biomechanical disorders such as back pain was based on subluxation. Chiropractors often offer conventional therapies such as physical therapy and lifestyle counseling, and it may for the lay person be difficult to distinguish the unscientific from the scientific.\n\nPalmer hypothesized that vertebral joint misalignments, which he termed \"vertebral subluxations\", interfered with the body's function and its inborn ability to heal itself. D. D. Palmer repudiated his earlier theory that vertebral subluxations caused pinched nerves in the intervertebral spaces in favor of subluxations causing altered nerve vibration, either too tense or too slack, affecting the tone (health) of the end organ. D. D. Palmer, using a vitalistic approach, imbued the term \"subluxation\" with a metaphysical and philosophical meaning. He qualified this by noting that knowledge of innate intelligence was not essential to the competent practice of chiropractic. This concept was later expanded upon by his son, B. J. Palmer, and was instrumental in providing the legal basis of differentiating chiropractic from conventional medicine. In 1910, D. D. Palmer theorized that the nervous system controlled health:\n\nVertebral subluxation, a core concept of traditional chiropractic, remains unsubstantiated and largely untested, and a debate about whether to keep it in the chiropractic paradigm has been ongoing for decades. In general, critics of traditional subluxation-based chiropractic (including chiropractors) are skeptical of its clinical value, dogmatic beliefs and metaphysical approach. While straight chiropractic still retains the traditional vitalistic construct espoused by the founders, evidence-based chiropractic suggests that a mechanistic view will allow chiropractic care to become integrated into the wider health care community. This is still a continuing source of debate within the chiropractic profession as well, with some schools of chiropractic still teaching the traditional/straight subluxation-based chiropractic, while others have moved towards an evidence-based chiropractic that rejects metaphysical foundings and limits itself to primarily neuromusculoskeletal conditions.\n\nIn 2005, the chiropractic subluxation was defined by the World Health Organization as \"a lesion or dysfunction in a joint or motion segment in which alignment, movement integrity and/or physiological function are altered, although contact between joint surfaces remains intact. It is essentially a functional entity, which may influence biomechanical and neural integrity.\" This differs from the medical definition of subluxation as a significant structural displacement, which can be seen with static imaging techniques such as X-rays. This exposes patients to harmful ionizing radiation for no evidentially supported reason. The 2008 book \"Trick or Treatment\" states \"X-rays can reveal neither the subluxations nor the innate intelligence associated with chiropractic philosophy, because they do not exist.\" Attorney David Chapman-Smith, Secretary-General of the World Federation of Chiropractic, has stated that \"Medical critics have asked how there can be a subluxation if it cannot be seen on X-ray. The answer is that the chiropractic subluxation is essentially a functional entity, not structural, and is therefore no more visible on static X-ray than a limp or headache or any other functional problem.\" The General Chiropractic Council, the statutory regulatory body for chiropractors in the United Kingdom, states that the chiropractic vertebral subluxation complex \"is not supported by any clinical research evidence that would allow claims to be made that it is the cause of disease.\"\n\nAs of 2014, the National Board of Chiropractic Examiners states \"The specific focus of chiropractic practice is known as the chiropractic subluxation or joint dysfunction. A subluxation is a health concern that manifests in the skeletal joints, and, through complex anatomical and physiological relationships, affects the nervous system and may lead to reduced function, disability or illness.\"\n\nChiropractors emphasize the conservative management of the neuromusculoskeletal system without the use of medicines or surgery, with special emphasis on the spine. Back and neck pain are the specialties of chiropractic but many chiropractors treat ailments other than musculoskeletal issues. There is a range of opinions among chiropractors: some believed that treatment should be confined to the spine, or back and neck pain; others disagreed. For example, while one 2009 survey of American chiropractors had found that 73% classified themselves as \"back pain/musculoskeletal specialists\", the label \"back and neck pain specialists\" was regarded by 47% of them as a \"least\" desirable description in a 2005 international survey. Chiropractic combines aspects from mainstream and alternative medicine, and there is no agreement about how to define the profession: although chiropractors have many attributes of primary care providers, chiropractic has more of the attributes of a medical specialty like dentistry or podiatry. It has been proposed that chiropractors specialize in nonsurgical spine care, instead of attempting to also treat other problems, but the more expansive view of chiropractic is still widespread.\n\nMainstream health care and governmental organizations such as the World Health Organization consider chiropractic to be complementary and alternative medicine (CAM); and a 2008 study reported that 31% of surveyed chiropractors categorized chiropractic as CAM, 27% as integrated medicine, and 12% as mainstream medicine. Many chiropractors believe they are primary care providers, including US and UK chiropractors, but the length, breadth, and depth of chiropractic clinical training do not support the requirements to be considered primary care providers, so their role on primary care is limited and disputed.\n\nChiropractic overlaps with several other forms of manual therapy, including massage therapy, osteopathy, physical therapy, and sports medicine. Chiropractic is autonomous from and competitive with mainstream medicine, and osteopathy outside the US remains primarily a manual medical system; physical therapists work alongside and cooperate with mainstream medicine, and osteopathic medicine in the U.S. has merged with the medical profession. Practitioners may distinguish these competing approaches through claims that, compared to other therapists, chiropractors heavily emphasize spinal manipulation, tend to use firmer manipulative techniques, and promote maintenance care; that osteopaths use a wider variety of treatment procedures; and that physical therapists emphasize machinery and exercise.\n\nChiropractic diagnosis may involve a range of methods including skeletal imaging, observational and tactile assessments, and orthopedic and neurological evaluation. A chiropractor may also refer a patient to an appropriate specialist, or co-manage with another health care provider. Common patient management involves spinal manipulation (SM) and other manual therapies to the joints and soft tissues, rehabilitative exercises, health promotion, electrical modalities, complementary procedures, and lifestyle advice.\n\nChiropractors are not normally licensed to write medical prescriptions or perform major surgery in the United States, (although New Mexico has become the first US state to allow \"advanced practice\" trained chiropractors to prescribe certain medications.). In the US, their scope of practice varies by state, based on inconsistent views of chiropractic care: some states, such as Iowa, broadly allow treatment of \"human ailments\"; some, such as Delaware, use vague concepts such as \"transition of nerve energy\" to define scope of practice; others, such as New Jersey, specify a severely narrowed scope. US states also differ over whether chiropractors may conduct laboratory tests or diagnostic procedures, dispense dietary supplements, or use other therapies such as homeopathy and acupuncture; in Oregon they can become certified to perform minor surgery and to deliver children via natural childbirth. A 2003 survey of North American chiropractors found that a slight majority favored allowing them to write prescriptions for over-the-counter drugs. A 2010 survey found that 72% of Swiss chiropractors considered their ability to prescribe nonprescription medication as an advantage for chiropractic treatment.\n\nA related field, veterinary chiropractic, applies manual therapies to animals and is recognized in 40 US states, but is not recognized by the American Chiropractic Association as being chiropractic. It remains controversial within certain segments of the veterinary, and chiropractic profession.\n\nNo single profession \"owns\" spinal manipulation and there is little consensus as to which profession should administer SM, raising concerns by chiropractors that other medical physicians could \"steal\" SM procedures from chiropractors. A focus on evidence-based SM research has also raised concerns that the resulting practice guidelines could limit the scope of chiropractic practice to treating backs and necks. Two U.S. states (Washington and Arkansas) prohibit physical therapists from performing SM, some states allow them to do it only if they have completed advanced training in SM, and some states allow only chiropractors to perform SM, or only chiropractors and physicians. Bills to further prohibit non-chiropractors from performing SM are regularly introduced into state legislatures and are opposed by physical therapist organizations.\n\nSpinal manipulation, which chiropractors call \"spinal adjustment\" or \"chiropractic adjustment\", is the most common treatment used in chiropractic care. Spinal manipulation is a passive manual maneuver during which a three-joint complex is taken past the normal range of movement, but not so far as to dislocate or damage the joint. Its defining factor is a dynamic thrust, which is a sudden force that causes an audible release and attempts to increase a joint's range of motion. High-velocity, low-amplitude spinal manipulation (HVLA-SM) thrusts have physiological effects that signal neural discharge from paraspinal muscle tissues, depending on duration and amplitude of the thrust are factors of the degree in paraspinal muscle spindles activation. Clinical skill in employing HVLA-SM thrusts depends on the ability of the practitioner to handle the duration and magnitude of the load. More generally, spinal manipulative therapy (SMT) describes techniques where the hands are used to manipulate, massage, mobilize, adjust, stimulate, apply traction to, or otherwise influence the spine and related tissues.\n\nThere are several schools of chiropractic adjustive techniques, although most chiropractors mix techniques from several schools. The following adjustive procedures were received by more than 10% of patients of licensed U.S. chiropractors in a 2003 survey: Diversified technique (full-spine manipulation, employing various techniques), extremity adjusting, Activator technique (which uses a spring-loaded tool to deliver precise adjustments to the spine), Thompson Technique (which relies on a drop table and detailed procedural protocols), Gonstead (which emphasizes evaluating the spine along with specific adjustment that avoids rotational vectors), Cox/flexion-distraction (a gentle, low-force adjusting procedure which mixes chiropractic with osteopathic principles and utilizes specialized adjusting tables with movable parts), adjustive instrument, Sacro-Occipital Technique (which models the spine as a torsion bar), Nimmo Receptor-Tonus Technique, applied kinesiology (which emphasises \"muscle testing\" as a diagnostic tool), and cranial. Chiropractic biophysics technique uses inverse functions of rotations during spinal manipulation. Koren Specific Technique (KST) may use their hands, or they may use an electric device known as an \"ArthroStim\" for assessment and spinal manipulations. Insurers in the US and UK that cover other chiropractic techniques exclude KST from coverage because they consider it to be \"experimental and investigational\". Medicine-assisted manipulation, such as manipulation under anesthesia, involves sedation or local anesthetic and is done by a team that includes an anesthesiologist; a 2008 systematic review did not find enough evidence to make recommendations about its use for chronic low back pain.\n\nMany other procedures are used by chiropractors for treating the spine, other joints and tissues, and general health issues. The following procedures were received by more than one-third of patients of licensed U.S. chiropractors in a 2003 survey: Diversified technique (full-spine manipulation; mentioned in previous paragraph), physical fitness/exercise promotion, corrective or therapeutic exercise, ergonomic/postural advice, self-care strategies, activities of daily living, changing risky/unhealthy behaviors, nutritional/dietary recommendations, relaxation/stress reduction recommendations, ice pack/cryotherapy, extremity adjusting (also mentioned in previous paragraph), trigger point therapy, and disease prevention/early screening advice.\n\nA 2010 study describing Belgium chiropractors and their patients found chiropractors in Belgium mostly focus on neuromusculoskeletal complaints in adult patients, with emphasis on the spine. The diversified technique is the most often applied technique at 93%, followed by the Activator mechanical-assisted technique at 41%. A 2009 study assessing chiropractic students giving or receiving spinal manipulations while attending a U.S. chiropractic college found Diversified, Gonstead, and upper cervical manipulations are frequently used methods.\n\nReviews of research studies within the chiropractic community have been used to generate practice guidelines outlining standards that specify which chiropractic treatments are \"legitimate\" (i.e. supported by evidence) and conceivably reimbursable under managed care health payment systems. Evidence-based guidelines are supported by one end of an ideological continuum among chiropractors; the other end employs antiscientific reasoning and makes unsubstantiated claims. Chiropractic remains at a crossroads, and that in order to progress it would need to embrace science; the promotion by some for it to be a cure-all was both \"misguided and irrational\". A 2007 survey of Alberta chiropractors found that they do not consistently apply research in practice, which may have resulted from a lack of research education and skills.\n\nThere is no good evidence that chiropractic is effective for the treatment of any medical condition, except perhaps for certain kinds of back pain. Generally, the research carried out into the effectiveness of chiropractic has been of poor quality. Numerous controlled clinical studies of treatments used by chiropractors have been conducted, with conflicting results. Research published by chiropractors is distinctly biased. For reviews of SM for back pain chiropractic authors tend to have positive conclusions, while others did not show any effectiveness.\n\nThere is a wide range of ways to measure treatment outcomes. Chiropractic care, like all medical treatment, benefits from the placebo response. It is difficult to construct a trustworthy placebo for clinical trials of spinal manipulative therapy (SMT), as experts often disagree about whether a proposed placebo actually has no effect. The efficacy of maintenance care in chiropractic is unknown.\n\nAvailable evidence covers the following conditions:\n\nThe World Health Organization found chiropractic care in general is safe when employed skillfully and appropriately. There is not sufficient data to establish the safety of chiropractic manipulations. Manipulation is regarded as relatively safe but complications can arise, and it has known adverse effects, risks and contraindications. Absolute contraindications to spinal manipulative therapy are conditions that should not be manipulated; these contraindications include rheumatoid arthritis and conditions known to result in unstable joints. Relative contraindications are conditions where increased risk is acceptable in some situations and where low-force and soft-tissue techniques are treatments of choice; these contraindications include osteoporosis. Although most contraindications apply only to manipulation of the affected region, some neurological signs indicate referral to emergency medical services; these include sudden and severe headache or neck pain unlike that previously experienced. Indirect risks of chiropractic involve delayed or missed diagnoses through consulting a chiropractor.\n\nSpinal manipulation is associated with frequent, mild and temporary adverse effects, including new or worsening pain or stiffness in the affected region. They have been estimated to occur in 33% to 61% of patients, and frequently occur within an hour of treatment and disappear within 24 to 48 hours; adverse reactions appear to be more common following manipulation than mobilization. The most frequently stated adverse effects are mild headache, soreness, and briefly elevated pain fatigue. Chiropractic is correlated with a very high incidence of minor adverse effects. Chiropractic are more commonly associated with serious related adverse effects than other professionals following manipulation. Rarely, spinal manipulation, particularly on the upper spine, can also result in complications that can lead to permanent disability or death; these can occur in adults and children. There is a case of a three-month-old dying following manipulation of the neck area. Estimates vary widely for the incidence of these complications, and the actual incidence is unknown, due to high levels of underreporting and to the difficulty of linking manipulation to adverse effects such as stroke, which is a particular concern. Adverse effects are poorly reported in recent studies investigating chiropractic manipulations. A 2016 systematic review concludes that the level of reporting is unsuitable and unacceptable. Reports of serious adverse events have occurred, resulting from spinal manipulation therapy of the lumbopelvic region. Estimates for serious adverse events vary from 5 strokes per 100,000 manipulations to 1.46 serious adverse events per 10 million manipulations and 2.68 deaths per 10 million manipulations, though it was determined that there was inadequate data to be conclusive. Several case reports show temporal associations between interventions and potentially serious complications. The published medical literature contains reports of 26 deaths since 1934 following chiropractic manipulations and many more seem to remain unpublished.\n\nVertebrobasilar artery stroke (VAS) is statistically associated with chiropractic services in persons under 45 years of age, but it is similarly associated with general practitioner services, suggesting that these associations are likely explained by preexisting conditions. Weak to moderately strong evidence supports causation (as opposed to statistical association) between cervical manipulative therapy (CMT) and VAS. There is insufficient evidence to support a strong association or no association between cervical manipulation and stroke. While the biomechanical evidence is not sufficient to support the statement that CMT causes cervical artery dissection (CD), clinical reports suggest that mechanical forces have a part in a substantial number of CDs and the majority of population controlled studies found an association between CMT and VAS in young people. It is strongly recommended that practitioners consider the plausibility of CD as a symptom, and people can be informed of the association between CD and CMT before administrating manipulation of the cervical spine. There is controversy regarding the degree of risk of stroke from cervical manipulation. Many chiropractors state that, the association between chiropractic therapy and vertebral arterial dissection is not proven. However, it has been suggested that the causality between chiropractic cervical manipulation beyond the normal range of motion and vascular accidents is probable or definite. There is very low evidence supporting a small association between internal carotid artery dissection and chiropractic neck manipulation. The incidence of internal carotid artery dissection following cervical spine manipulation is unknown. The literature infrequently reports helpful data to better understand the association between cervical manipulative therapy, cervical artery dissection and stroke. The limited evidence is inconclusive that chiropractic spinal manipulation therapy is not a cause of intracranial hypotension. Cervical intradural disc herniation is very rare following spinal manipulation therapy.\n\nChiropractors, like other primary care providers, sometimes employ diagnostic imaging techniques such as X-rays and CT scans that rely on ionizing radiation. Although there is no clear evidence for the practice, some chiropractors may still X-ray a patient several times a year. Practice guidelines aim to reduce unnecessary radiation exposure, which increases cancer risk in proportion to the amount of radiation received. Research suggests that radiology instruction given at chiropractic schools worldwide seem to be evidence-based. Although, there seems to be a disparity between some schools and available evidence regarding the aspect of radiography for patients with acute low back pain without an indication of a serious disease, which may contribute to chiropractic overuse of radiography for low back pain.\n\nA 2012 systematic review concluded that no accurate assessment of risk-benefit exists for cervical manipulation. A 2010 systematic review stated that there is no good evidence to assume that neck manipulation is an effective treatment for any medical condition and suggested a precautionary principle in healthcare for chiropractic intervention even if a causality with vertebral artery dissection after neck manipulation were merely a remote possibility. The same review concluded that the risk of death from manipulations to the neck outweighs the benefits. Chiropractors have criticized this conclusion, claiming that the author did not evaluate the potential benefits of spinal manipulation. Edzard Ernst stated \"This detail was not the subject of my review. I do, however, refer to such evaluations and should add that a report recently commissioned by the General Chiropractic Council did not support many of the outlandish claims made by many chiropractors across the world.\"\n\nA 2009 review evaluating maintenance chiropractic care found that spinal manipulation is routinely associated with considerable harm and no compelling evidence exists to indicate that it adequately prevents symptoms or diseases, thus the risk-benefit is not evidently favorable.\n\nA 2012 systematic review suggested that the use of spine manipulation in clinical practice is a cost-effective treatment when used alone or in combination with other treatment approaches. A 2011 systematic review found evidence supporting the cost-effectiveness of using spinal manipulation for the treatment of sub-acute or chronic low back pain; the results for acute low back pain were insufficient.\n\nA 2006 systematic cost-effectiveness review found that the reported cost-effectiveness of spinal manipulation in the United Kingdom compared favorably with other treatments for back pain, but that reports were based on data from clinical trials without sham controls and that the specific cost-effectiveness of the treatment (as opposed to non-specific effects) remains uncertain. A 2005 American systematic review of economic evaluations of conservative treatments for low back pain found that significant quality problems in available studies meant that definite conclusions could not be drawn about the most cost-effective intervention. The cost-effectiveness of maintenance chiropractic care is unknown.\n\nAnalysis of a clinical and cost utilization data from the years 2003 to 2005 by an integrative medicine independent physician association (IPA) which looked the chiropractic services utilization found that the clinical and cost utilization of chiropractic services based on 70,274 member-months over a 7-year period decreased patient costs associate with the following use of services by 60% for in-hospital admissions, 59% for hospital days, 62% for outpatient surgeries and procedures, and 85% for pharmaceutical costs when compared with conventional medicine (visit to a medical doctor primary care provider) IPA performance for the same health maintenance organization product in the same geography and time frame.\n\nRequirements vary between countries. In the U.S. chiropractors obtain a first professional degree in the field of chiropractic. Chiropractic education in the U.S. have been criticized for failing to meet generally accepted standards of evidence-based medicine. The curriculum content of North American chiropractic and medical colleges with regard to basic and clinical sciences has been more similar than not, both in the kinds of subjects offered and in the time assigned to each subject. Accredited chiropractic programs in the U.S. require that applicants have 90 semester hours of undergraduate education with a grade point average of at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale. Many programs require at least three years of undergraduate education, and more are requiring a bachelor's degree. Canada requires a minimum three years of undergraduate education for applicants, and at least 4200 instructional hours (or the equivalent) of full‐time chiropractic education for matriculation through an accredited chiropractic program. Graduates of the Canadian Memorial Chiropractic College (CMCC) are formally recognized to have at least 7–8 years of university level education. The World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines suggest three major full-time educational paths culminating in either a DC, DCM, BSc, or MSc degree. Besides the full-time paths, they also suggest a conversion program for people with other health care education and limited training programs for regions where no legislation governs chiropractic.\n\nUpon graduation, there may be a requirement to pass national, state, or provincial board examinations before being licensed to practice in a particular jurisdiction. Depending on the location, continuing education may be required to renew these licenses. Specialty training is available through part-time postgraduate education programs such as chiropractic orthopedics and sports chiropractic, and through full-time residency programs such as radiology or orthopedics.\n\nIn the U.S., chiropractic schools are accredited through the Council on Chiropractic Education (CCE) while the General Chiropractic Council (GCC) is the statutory governmental body responsible for the regulation of chiropractic in the UK. The U.S. CCE requires a mixing curriculum, which means a straight-educated chiropractor may not be eligible for licensing in states requiring CCE accreditation. CCEs in the U.S., Canada, Australia and Europe have joined to form CCE-International (CCE-I) as a model of accreditation standards with the goal of having credentials portable internationally. Today, there are 18 accredited Doctor of Chiropractic programs in the U.S., 2 in Canada, 6 in Australasia, and 5 in Europe. All but one of the chiropractic colleges in the U.S. are privately funded, but in several other countries they are in government-sponsored universities and colleges. Of the two chiropractic colleges in Canada, one is publicly funded (UQTR) and one is privately funded (CMCC). In 2005, CMCC was granted the privilege of offering a professional health care degree under the Post-secondary Education Choice and Excellence Act, which sets the program within the hierarchy of education in Canada as comparable to that of other primary contact health care professions such as medicine, dentistry and optometry.\n\nRegulatory colleges and chiropractic boards in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, and Australia are responsible for protecting the public, standards of practice, disciplinary issues, quality assurance and maintenance of competency. There are an estimated 49,000 chiropractors in the U.S. (2008), 6,500 in Canada (2010), 2,500 in Australia (2000), and 1,500 in the UK (2000).\n\nChiropractors often argue that this education is as good as or better than medical physicians', but most chiropractic training is confined to classrooms with much time spent learning theory, adjustment, and marketing. The fourth year of chiropractic education persistently showed the highest stress levels. Every student, irrespective of year, experienced different ranges of stress when studying. The chiropractic leaders and colleges have had internal struggles. Rather than cooperation, there has been infighting between different factions. A number of actions were posturing due to the confidential nature of the chiropractic colleges in an attempt to enroll students.\n\nThe chiropractic oath is a modern variation of the classical Hippocratic Oath historically taken by physicians and other healthcare professionals swearing to practice their professions ethically. The American Chiropractic Association (ACA) has an ethical code \"based upon the acknowledgement that the social contract dictates the profession's responsibilities to the patient, the public, and the profession; and upholds the fundamental principle that the paramount purpose of the chiropractic doctor's professional services shall be to benefit the patient.\" The International Chiropractor's Association (ICA) also has a set of professional canons.\n\nA 2008 commentary proposed that the chiropractic profession actively regulate itself to combat abuse, fraud, and quackery, which are more prevalent in chiropractic than in other health care professions, violating the social contract between patients and physicians. According to a 2015 Gallup poll of U.S. adults, the perception of chiropractors is generally favorable; two-thirds of American adults agree that chiropractors have their patient's best interest in mind and more than half also agree that most chiropractors are trustworthy. Less than 10% of US adults disagreed with the statement that chiropractors were trustworthy.\n\nChiropractors, especially in America, have a reputation for unnecessarily treating patients. In many circumstances the focus seems to be put on economics instead of health care. Sustained chiropractic care is promoted as a preventative tool, but unnecessary manipulation could possibly present a risk to patients. Some chiropractors are concerned by the routine unjustified claims chiropractors have made. A 2010 analysis of chiropractic websites found the majority of chiropractors and their associations made claims of effectiveness not supported by scientific evidence, while 28% of chiropractor websites advocate lower back pain care, which has some sound evidence.\n\nThe US Office of the Inspector General (OIG) estimates that for calendar year 2013, 82% of payments to chiropractors under Medicare part B, a total of $359 million, did not comply with Medicare requirements. There have been at least 15 OIG reports about chiropractic billing irregularities since 1986.\n\nIn 2009, a backlash to the libel suit filed by the British Chiropractic Association (BCA) against Simon Singh, has inspired the filing of formal complaints of false advertising against more than 500 individual chiropractors within one 24-hour period, prompting the McTimoney Chiropractic Association to write to its members advising them to remove leaflets that make claims about whiplash and colic from their practice, to be wary of new patients and telephone inquiries, and telling their members: \"If you have a website, take it down NOW.\" and \"Finally, we strongly suggest you do NOT discuss this with others, especially patients.\" An editorial in \"Nature\" has suggested that the BCA may be trying to suppress debate and that this use of British libel law is a burden on the right to freedom of expression, which is protected by the European Convention on Human Rights. The libel case ended with the BCA withdrawing its suit in 2010.\n\nChiropractic is established in the U.S., Canada, and Australia, and is present to a lesser extent in many other countries. It is viewed as a marginal complementary and alternative medicine health care profession, which has not integrated into mainstream medicine. Billions are spent annually for chiropractic services.\n\nIn Australia, most private health insurance funds cover chiropractic care, and the federal government funds chiropractic care when the patient is referred by a medical practitioner.\n\nIn the United Kingdom chiropractic is available on the National Health Service in some areas, such as Cornwall where the treatment is only available for neck or back pain.\n\nA 2010 study by questionnaire presented to UK chiropractors indicated only 45% of chiropractors disclosed with patients the serious risk associated with manipulation of the cervical spine and that 46% believed there was possibility of patient would refuse treatment if risk correctly explained. However 80% acknowledged the ethical/moral responsibility to disclose risk to patient.\n\nThe percentage of the population that utilizes chiropractic care at any given time generally falls into a range from 6% to 12% in the U.S. and Canada, with a global high of 20% in Alberta in 2006. In 2008, chiropractors were reported to be the most common CAM providers for children and adolescents, consuming up to 14% of all visits to chiropractors. In 2008, there were around 60,000 chiropractors practicing in North America. In 2002–03, the majority of those who sought chiropractic did so for relief from back and neck pain and other neuromusculoskeletal complaints; most do so specifically for low back pain. The majority of U.S. chiropractors participate in some form of managed care. Although the majority of U.S. chiropractors view themselves as specialists in neuroleptic malignant syndrome conditions, many also consider chiropractic as a type of primary care. In the majority of cases, the care that chiropractors and physicians provide divides the market, however for some, their care is complementary.\n\nIn the U.S., chiropractors perform over 90% of all manipulative treatments. Satisfaction rates are typically higher for chiropractic care compared to medical care, with a 1998 U.S. survey reporting 83% of respondents satisfied or very satisfied with their care; quality of communication seems to be a consistent predictor of patient satisfaction with chiropractors.\n\nUtilization of chiropractic care is sensitive to the costs incurred by the co-payment by the patient. The use of chiropractic declined from 9.9% of U.S. adults in 1997 to 7.4% in 2002; this was the largest relative decrease among CAM professions, which overall had a stable use rate. As of 2007 7% of the U.S. population is being reached by chiropractic. They were the third largest profession in the US in 2002, following doctors and dentists. Employment of U.S. chiropractors was expected to increase 14% between 2006 and 2016, faster than the average for all occupations.\n\nIn the U.S., most states require insurers to cover chiropractic care, and most HMOs cover these services.\n\nChiropractic was founded in 1895 by Daniel David (D.D.) Palmer in Davenport, Iowa. Palmer, a magnetic healer, hypothesized that manual manipulation of the spine could cure disease. The first chiropractic patient of D.D. Palmer was Harvey Lillard, a worker in the building where Palmer's office was located. He claimed that he had severely reduced hearing for 17 years, which started soon following a \"pop\" in his spine. A few days following his adjustment, Lillard claimed his hearing was almost completely restored. Chiropractic competed with its predecessor osteopathy, another medical system based on magnetic healing and bonesetting; both systems were founded by charismatic midwesterners in opposition to the conventional medicine of the day, and both postulated that manipulation improved health. Although initially keeping chiropractic a family secret, in 1898 Palmer began teaching it to a few students at his new Palmer School of Chiropractic. One student, his son Bartlett Joshua (B.J.) Palmer, became committed to promoting chiropractic, took over the Palmer School in 1906, and rapidly expanded its enrollment.\n\nEarly chiropractors believed that all disease was caused by interruptions in the flow of innate intelligence, a vitalistic nervous energy or life force that represented God's presence in man; chiropractic leaders often invoked religious imagery and moral traditions. D.D. Palmer said he \"received chiropractic from the other world\". D.D. and B.J. both seriously considered declaring chiropractic a religion, which might have provided legal protection under the U.S. constitution, but decided against it partly to avoid confusion with Christian Science. Early chiropractors also tapped into the Populist movement, emphasizing craft, hard work, competition, and advertisement, aligning themselves with the common man against intellectuals and trusts, among which they included the American Medical Association (AMA).\n\nChiropractic has seen considerable controversy and criticism. Although D.D. and B.J. were \"straight\" and disdained the use of instruments, some early chiropractors, whom B.J. scornfully called \"mixers\", advocated the use of instruments. In 1910, B.J. changed course and endorsed X-rays as necessary for diagnosis; this resulted in a significant exodus from the Palmer School of the more conservative faculty and students. The mixer camp grew until by 1924 B.J. estimated that only 3,000 of the U.S.'s 25,000 chiropractors remained straight. That year, B.J.'s invention and promotion of the neurocalometer, a temperature-sensing device, was highly controversial among B.J.'s fellow straights. By the 1930s, chiropractic was the largest alternative healing profession in the U.S.\n\nChiropractors faced heavy opposition from organized medicine. DD Palmer was jailed in 1907 for practicing medicine without a license. Thousands of chiropractors were prosecuted for practicing medicine without a license, and D.D. and many other chiropractors were jailed. To defend against medical statutes, B.J. argued that chiropractic was separate and distinct from medicine, asserting that chiropractors \"analyzed\" rather than \"diagnosed\", and \"adjusted\" subluxations rather than \"treated\" disease. B.J. cofounded the Universal Chiropractors' Association (UCA) to provide legal services to arrested chiropractors. Although the UCA won their first test case in Wisconsin in 1907, prosecutions instigated by state medical boards became increasingly common and in many cases were successful. In response, chiropractors conducted political campaigns to secure separate licensing statutes, eventually succeeding in all fifty states, from Kansas in 1913 through Louisiana in 1974. The longstanding feud between chiropractors and medical doctors continued for decades. The AMA labeled chiropractic an \"unscientific cult\" in 1966, and until 1980 advised its members that it was unethical for medical doctors to associate with \"unscientific practitioners\". This culminated in a landmark 1987 decision, \"Wilk v. AMA\", in which the court found that the AMA had engaged in unreasonable restraint of trade and conspiracy, and which ended the AMA's de facto boycott of chiropractic.\n\nSerious research to test chiropractic theories did not begin until the 1970s, and is continuing to be hampered by antiscientific and pseudoscientific ideas that sustained the profession in its long battle with organized medicine. By the mid 1990s there was a growing scholarly interest in chiropractic, which helped efforts to improve service quality and establish clinical guidelines that recommended manual therapies for acute low back pain. In recent decades chiropractic gained legitimacy and greater acceptance by medical physicians and health plans, and enjoyed a strong political base and sustained demand for services. However, its future seemed uncertain: as the number of practitioners grew, evidence-based medicine insisted on treatments with demonstrated value, managed care restricted payment, and competition grew from massage therapists and other health professions. The profession responded by marketing natural products and devices more aggressively, and by reaching deeper into alternative medicine and primary care.\n\nThe word \"chiropractic\" comes from Greek χειρο- \"chiro-\" (itself from χείρ \"cheir\" \"hand\"), \"hand\" and πρακτικός \"praktikos\", \"practical\". Chiropractic is classified as a field of pseudomedicine on account of its esoteric origins.\n\nSome chiropractors oppose vaccination and water fluoridation, which are common public health practices. Within the chiropractic community there are significant disagreements about vaccination, one of the most cost-effective public health interventions available. Most chiropractic writings on vaccination focus on its negative aspects, claiming that it is hazardous, ineffective, and unnecessary. Some chiropractors have embraced vaccination, but a significant portion of the profession rejects it, as original chiropractic philosophy traces diseases to causes in the spine and states that vaccines interfere with healing. The extent to which anti-vaccination views perpetuate the current chiropractic profession is uncertain. The American Chiropractic Association and the International Chiropractors Association support individual exemptions to compulsory vaccination laws, and a 1995 survey of U.S. chiropractors found that about a third believed there was no scientific proof that immunization prevents disease. The Canadian Chiropractic Association supports vaccination; a survey in Alberta in 2002 found that 25% of chiropractors advised patients for, and 27% against, vaccinating themselves or their children.\n\nEarly opposition to water fluoridation included chiropractors, some of whom continue to oppose it as being incompatible with chiropractic philosophy and an infringement of personal freedom. Other chiropractors have actively promoted fluoridation, and several chiropractic organizations have endorsed scientific principles of public health. In addition to traditional chiropractic opposition to water fluoridation and vaccination, chiropractors' attempts to establish a positive reputation for their public health role are also compromised by their reputation for recommending repetitive lifelong chiropractic treatment.\n\nThroughout its history chiropractic has been the subject of internal and external controversy and criticism. According to Daniel D. Palmer, the founder of chiropractic, subluxation is the sole cause of disease and manipulation is the cure for all diseases of the human race. A 2003 profession-wide survey found \"most chiropractors (whether 'straights' or 'mixers') still hold views of innate Intelligence and of the cause and cure of disease (not just back pain) consistent with those of the Palmers.\" A critical evaluation stated \"Chiropractic is rooted in mystical concepts. This led to an internal conflict within the chiropractic profession, which continues today.\" Chiropractors, including D.D. Palmer, were jailed for practicing medicine without a license. For most of its existence, chiropractic has battled with mainstream medicine, sustained by antiscientific and pseudoscientific ideas such as subluxation. Collectively, systematic reviews have not demonstrated that spinal manipulation, the main treatment method employed by chiropractors, is effective for any medical condition, with the possible exception of treatment for back pain. Chiropractic remains controversial, though to a lesser extent than in past years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16861208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16861208", "title": "Douglas Robert Hadow", "text": "Douglas Robert Hadow\n\nDouglas Robert Hadow (30 May 1846 – 14 July 1865) was a British novice mountaineer who died on the descent after the first ascent of the Matterhorn.\n\nHadow was born in 1846 at 49 York Terrace, Regent's Park, London, the son of Patrick Douglas Hadow (Chairman of the P. & O. Steam Navigation Company) and Emma Harriett Nisbet (daughter of Robert Parry Nisbet, of Southbroom House, Wiltshire), who married at Southbroom on 28 January 1845. Hadow's paternal great-grandfather was George Hadow, professor of Hebrew and Oriental Languages at the University of St Andrews, and one of his younger brothers was Frank Hadow, who won the Wimbledon championship in 1878.\n\nHadow was educated at Harrow School, where he and six of his brothers who also attended the school were known as the 'Harrow Hadows'.\n\nIn 1865, at the age of nineteen, Hadow undertook his first trip to the Alps as a protégé to Charles Hudson, a clergyman from Skillington in Lincolnshire, and a leading advocate of guideless climbing. Together they made a swift ascent of Mont Blanc and a number of other climbs; these ascents – together with the backing of a climber of Hudson's stature – persuaded Edward Whymper that Hadow was a suitable companion for an attempt on the Matterhorn.\n\nWhymper later wrote:\n\nDuring the first ascent of the Matterhorn on 14 July 1865, Hadow was, however, challenged by the technical difficulties presented by the mountain. Whymper noticed his inexperience after the party had traversed onto what he termed the 'north-west face' whilst ascending the mountain. In a piece published by \"The Times\" shortly after the accident, he wrote: \n\nHadow's slip on the descent of the mountain was the immediate cause of the accident. He was the second on the rope as the party went down and he slipped not far from the summit, dragging three members of the party (Lord Francis Douglas, Michel Croz and Charles Hudson) with him down the north face of the mountain to their deaths (the three other members of the party – Whymper and Taugwalder father and son – were saved when the rope between them and Douglas snapped). Claire Engel comments:\nHadow's body was recovered from the Matterhorn Glacier, and he was buried at the churchyard in Zermatt. One of Hadow's shoes can be seen in Zermatt's Matterhorn Museum, together with the snapped rope and other relics of the climb.\n"}
{"id": "22037202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22037202", "title": "Drugs in Cambodia", "text": "Drugs in Cambodia\n\nIn Cambodia, drugs can be readily obtained and are easily accessible, including illegal substances.\n\nThe Cambodian black market trade of illicit drugs includes cannabis, methamphetamine, and high grade heroin. It is reported that foreigners requesting cocaine are sometimes provided with heroin instead. The Cambodian drug trade utilizes online services and the infamous Golden Triangle in Southeast Asia.\n\nCambodia remains a major supplier of cannabis to countries in East and Southeast Asia and other parts of the world. Large amounts of heroin are also smuggled throughout the (Golden Triangle). Drug abuse is increasing among street children and rates of HIV/AIDS are increasing due to intravenous drug usage.\n\nThe Golden Triangle is one of Asia's main opium-producing areas with the other area being the Golden Crescent. The triangle is an area of roughly 350,000 square kilometers that overlaps the mountainous regions of four nations of Southeast Asian: Myanmar also known as Burma, Laos, Vietnam, and Thailand. The Golden Crescent is located at the intersection of Central, South, and Western Asia. This area overlaps the borders of Afghanistan, Iran, and Pakistan with the mountainous regions which define the location of the crescent. In both of these areas illicit drugs are produced and traffickers export these drugs out of the country and or shipped throughout neighboring nations. The Ruak and Mekong rivers of these areas also influences the ease of how drugs are transported through this area.\n\nThe drugs are transported through the Triangle by horse and donkey caravans to refineries where the drugs are further processed and refined to become more pure. They are then most frequently brought to the United States and other countries by couriers traveling on commercial airlines or they are smuggled into the country by shipping containers.\n\nTeng Bunma is one of the wealthiest people in Cambodia with connections to leading politicians, military officials, and businessmen. He is believed to be one of the main Cambodian drug lords. Bunma is the owner of the luxury hotel \"Intercontinental\" in Phnom Penh and the \"Rasmei Kampuchea,\" the largest daily newspaper in Cambodia with a circulation of about 18,000. For years Bunma has been denied entry into the USA because he appears on the list of suspected drug dealers. A 1996 article, \"Medellin on the Mekong\" in the Hong Kong-based Far Eastern Economic Review, by United States journalist Nate Thayer, described Teng Bunma as a significant figure in Cambodia's international drug-smuggling trade.\n\nPertaining to the (online) drug market/trade which exists in Cambodia, more recently the trade took on its international intervention in which officials were able to prevent 10,000 tablets of Codeine and Valium being sent out of Cambodia to the United States and United Kingdom.\n\nJohanne Vinther Axelsen, 55 of Denmark, was arrested and convicted of drug trafficking and was sentenced to 15 years in prison. It is alleged she tried to mail out illegal drugs that she claims did not know were illegal out of Cambodia to the United States and United Kingdom on the behalf of her drug dealing son, Niels Eikeland. Many human rights activists in Denmark are advocating for the release of Axelsen due to the inhumane conditions of the prison and the Danish government are trying to work with Cambodian officials in order to appeal the court ruling. She was later released due to work of diplomacy and a private payment of 8.000 $ to officials so they would bend their policies \n\nIn mid-2008 three foreign nationals were arrested in Cambodia on charges of possessing, consuming, and intending to sell drugs A Taiwanese-American, Pakistani, and Britain national along with a Cambodian citizen were among the arrested. They were allegedly caught in possession of nearly half a kilo of methamphetamines and cocaine. The men potentially face life sentences if they are to be convicted.\n\nThese recent developments and arrests only further emphasizes that Cambodia is cracking down on the drug trade which exists in the country. According to secretary-general of the National Authority to Combat Drugs they emphasized that ‘There will be further raids. We are cracking down hard on people who provide illegal drugs.’\n\nOn April 10, 2009, four drug traders and traffickers, including two Cambodian nationals were prosecuted and arrested. The four had established a ring to transport synthetic drugs from Cambodia to Vietnam across the border for the drugs to be distributed in cafes, bars, and discos. According to initial investigators, the ring had been operating for nearly a decade \n\nThe UNODC is mandated to assist Member States in their struggle against illicit drugs, crime and terrorism. The UNODC is also working with high ranking government officials to lower illicit drugs and corruption. The UNODC is constantly updated on the country’s drug control and crime prevention efforts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25138363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25138363", "title": "Ectopic enamel", "text": "Ectopic enamel\n\nEctopic enamel is an abnormality in the shape of teeth. It is tooth enamel that is found in an unusual location, such as at the root of a tooth.\n"}
{"id": "38330472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38330472", "title": "Emil Zsigmondy", "text": "Emil Zsigmondy\n\nEmil Zsigmondy (11 August 1861 – 6 August 1885) was an Austrian physician and mountaineer.\n\nZsigmondy's parents were Hungarians: Adolf Zsigmondy, born in Pozsony, and Irma von Szakmáry, born in Martonvásár. Zsigmondy was an excellent alpinist, known for the risky nature of many of his climbs. He began mountaineering as a teenager, climbing the Reisseck in Austria in a round trip of 26 hours with his brother, Otto Zsigmondy. By the late 1870s the two brothers were climbing without guides in the Zillertal Alps. In 1881, they climbed the Ortler from the Hochjoch.\n\nEmil Zsigmondy was the friend and companion of Ludwig Purtscheller, the great pioneer of guideless Alpine climbing. Emil and Otto climbed with Purtscheller in 1882 and 1884, including an ascent without guides of the Marinelli Couloir on Monte Rosa and the first guideless traverse of the Matterhorn. Zsigmondy's outstanding achievements include the first ascent by the east arête of the high Meije in the Massif des Écrins range, made by Zsigmondy, his brother Otto, and Purtscheller on 26 July 1885. A few days later he died on the same mountain. He was killed in an attempt to climb the south face of the Meije on 6 August 1885, probably as a result of his rope slipping off a rock. The face was only conquered in 1912 by the South Tyrolese climbers Angelo Dibona and Luigi Rizzi with the brothers Guido and Max Mayer. Emil Zsigmondy's grave is a few miles away from the accident site in the small cemetery of Saint-Christophe-en-Oisans in the Dauphiné Alps. He had graduated as a doctor of medicine in 1884, less than a year before his death.\n\nAmerican historian and mountaineer W. A. B. Coolidge would later write: \n\nZsigmondy is commemorated by the Zsigmondyspitze in the Zillertal Alps, the Brèche Zsigmondy on the Meije (part of the route followed on the successful July 1885 climb), and the Zsigmondyhütte (\"Rifugio Zsigmondy Comici\") in the Sexten Dolomites.\n\nEmil Zsigmondy was the second of the four sons of Dr. Adolf Zsigmondy of Pressburg (Bratislava), a dentist of Hungarian origin, and Irma von Szakmáry, a poet from Martonvásár. His older brother, Otto, a dentist by profession, was also known as a mountaineer. His younger brother, Richard Adolf Zsigmondy, was a chemist and in 1925 received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. The youngest of the four brothers, Karl Zsigmondy, was a mathematician; in number theory, Zsigmondy's theorem is named after him. He was a cousin of the architect Frigyes Schulek, whose mother was Auguszta Zsigmondy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "136117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=136117", "title": "Emu oil", "text": "Emu oil\n\nEmu oil is an oil derived from adipose tissue harvested from certain subspecies of the emu, \"Dromaius novaehollandiae\", a flightless bird indigenous to Australia.\n\nUnadulterated emu oil can vary widely in color and viscosity anywhere from an off-white creamy texture to a thin yellow liquid, depending on the diet of the emu and the refining method(s) used. Industrially refined \"emu grade\" emu oil is composed of a minimum of 70% unsaturated fatty acids. The largest component is oleic acid, a monounsaturated omega-9 fatty acid. Emu oil also contains roughly 20% linoleic acid (an omega-6 fatty acid) and 1–2% linolenic acid (an omega-3 fatty acid). Fully refined emu oil has a bland flavor.\n\nEmu oil has previously been wrongly promoted as a dietary supplement with the claim it can treat a variety of human ailments, including cancer and arthritis.\n\nCommercial emu oil supplements are not standardized and vary widely in their potency. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration highlighted emu oils in a 2009 article on \"How to Spot Health Fraud,\" pointing out that many \"pure emu oil\" products are unapproved drugs.\n\nAs of 2015 there have been two small human studies; one for use skin moisturizer and the other as an insect repellent.\n\n"}
{"id": "56764158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56764158", "title": "End of Life Choice Bill", "text": "End of Life Choice Bill\n\nThe End of Life Choice Bill is a bill before the New Zealand Parliament that seeks to give people with a terminal illness or a grievous and irremediable medical condition the option of requesting assisted dying. ACT New Zealand MP David Seymour entered it into the private member's bill ballot on 14 October 2015. The bill passed its first reading on 13 December 2017, with 76 votes in favour, 44 opposed.\n\nEligibility for assisted dying\n\nThe End of Life Choice Bill allows New Zealand citizens or permanent residents aged 18 or older to request assisted dying, provided that they suffer from a terminal illness that is likely to end their life within 6 months, or they suffer from a grievous and irremediable medical condition; that they are in an advanced state of irreversible decline in capability; and they experience unbearable suffering that cannot be relieved in a manner that they consider tolerable; and they have the ability to understand the nature of assisted dying and the consequences for him or her of assisted dying.\n\nProcess of assisted dying\n\nA person who wishes to have an assisted death, and is eligible under the above criteria, must inform their attending medical practitioner. The medical practitioner must complete a prescribed form after having first talked to the patient about their illness, the nature of assisted dying, alternative options for end of life care, and numerous other matters. Once the request has been confirmed, the patient must sign and date the prescribed form in the presence of the practitioner. Once the form has been completed the attending medical practitioner, and following that an independent medical practitioner, must confirm that the person is eligible for assisted dying. If there is a disagreement between the two practitioners, or if it is recommended by either of the practitioners, a third opinion must be reached by an independent specialist appointed by the SCENZ Group. Following this, the patient requesting assisted dying must choose the medication and method of delivery which will end their life. Once the medication has been administered the attending medical practitioner must complete a prescribed form notifying the registrar at the Ministry of Health that an assisted death has occurred. The registrar must then forward the form to a review committee.\n\nSubmissions to the Justice select committee regarding the bill ended at midnight on 6 March 2018. The committee is due to report on the bill by 27 Mar 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23545825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23545825", "title": "Epidemiology of child psychiatric disorders", "text": "Epidemiology of child psychiatric disorders\n\nEpidemiological research has shown that between 3% and 18% of children have a psychiatric disorder causing significant functional impairment (reasons for these widely divergent prevalence rates are discussed below) and Costello and colleagues have proposed a median prevalence estimate of 12%. Using a different statistical method, Waddell and colleagues propose a prevalence rate for all mental disorders in children of 14.2%.\n\nDevelopmental epidemiology seeks to \"disentangle how the trajectories of symptoms, environment, and individual development intertwine to produce psychopathology\".\n\nMental illness in childhood and adolescence is associated with parental unemployment, low family income, being on family income assistance, lower parental educational level, and single-parent, blended or stepparent families.\n\nEpidemiological research has produced widely divergent estimates, depending on the nature of the diagnostic method (e.g. structured clinical interview, unstrutured clinical interview, self-report or parent-report questionnaire), but more recent studies using DSM-IV-based structured interviews produce more reliable estimates of clinical \"caseness\". Past research has also been limited by inconsistent definitions of clinical disorders, and differing upper and lower age limits of the study population. Changing definitions over time have given rise to spurious evidence of changing prevalence of disorders. Furthermore, almost all epidemiological surveys have been carried out in Europe, North America and Australia, and the cross-cultural validity of DSM criteria have been questioned, so it is not clear to what extent the published data can be generalized to developing countries.\n\n\nGeneral:\n"}
{"id": "54673941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54673941", "title": "Finnegan scoring system", "text": "Finnegan scoring system\n\nThe Finnegan scoring system is used to quantify and diagnose neonatal withdrawal or abstinence (NAS) syndrome. This is a withdrawal syndrome of infants, caused by the cessation of the administration of licit or illicit drugs. Neonatal abstinence syndrome is a group of problems that occur in a newborn who was exposed to addictive opiate or other drugs in utero. There are two types of NAS: prenatal and postnatal. Prenatal NAS is caused by discontinuation of drugs taken by the pregnant mother, while postnatal NAS is caused by discontinuation of drugs directly to the infant. The twenty-one signs of withdrawal are scored. The scoring assessment is based upon the pathological significance and severity of the symptoms. Symptoms can be managed with medication. Though lengthy, it remains when used by trained clinicians. Bias and subjectivity can have some affect. The Finnegan scale is also used to assess the effectiveness of treatment and recovery of the infant. Assessment is performed and then scored. A daily score is calculated. The decision to treat the infant may be based upon a higher score. The Finnegan scale is used with assessment of comorbidities, prematurity, and clinician experience to guide treatment.\n"}
{"id": "7456840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7456840", "title": "Glandular odontogenic cyst", "text": "Glandular odontogenic cyst\n\nThe glandular odontogenic cyst is a rare odontogenic cyst. In 85% of cases, it is found in the mandible, especially in anterior areas. It is more common in adults in their fifth and sixth decades. On radiographs, it can appear as a unilocular or multilocular radiolucency (dark area). Since the glandular odontogenic cyst can range in size, treatment can be as simple as enucleation and curettage to en bloc resection of the affected jaw.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16540432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16540432", "title": "Health in Nepal", "text": "Health in Nepal\n\nHealth care services in Nepal are provided by both public and private sectors and are generally regarded as failing to meet international standards. Prevalence of disease is significantly higher in Nepal than in other South Asian countries, especially in rural areas. Moreover, the country’s topographical and sociological diversity results in periodic epidemics of infectious diseases, epizootics and natural hazards such as floods, forest fires, landslides, and earthquakes. A large section of the population, particularly those living in rural poverty, are at risk of infection and mortality by communicable diseases, malnutrition and other health-related events. Nevertheless, some improvements in health care can be witnessed; most notably, there has been significant improvement in the field of maternal health. These improvements include:\n\n\nIn 2002, government funding for healthcare was approximately USD $2.30 per person. Approximately 70% of health expenditure came from out-of-pocket contributions. Government allocation for health care was approximately 5.8% of the budget in 2009. In 2012, the Nepalese government launched a pilot program for universal health insurance in five districts of the country.\n\nAs of 2014, Nepal's total expenditure on health per capita was USD $127.\n\nHealth care services, hygiene, nutrition, and sanitation in Nepal are of very poor quality and fail to reach a large proportion of the population, particularly in rural areas. The poor have limited access to basic health care due to high costs, low availability, lack of health education and conflicting traditional beliefs. Reproductive health care is limited and disadvantages women. The United Nation's 2009 human development report highlighted a growing social concern in Nepal in the form of individuals without citizenship being marginalized, and denied access to government welfare benefits.\n\nThese problems have led many governmental and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to implement communication programs encouraging people to engage in healthy behavior such as family planning, contraceptive use, spousal communication and safe motherhood practices, such as the use of skilled birth attendants during delivery and immediate breastfeeding.\n\nMicro-nutrient deficiencies are widespread, with almost half of pregnant women and children under five, as well as 35% of women of reproductive age, being anaemic. Only 24% of children consume iron-rich food, 24% of children meet a minimally acceptable diet, and only half of the pregnant women take recommended iron supplementation during pregnancy. A contributing factor to deteriorating nutrition is high diarrhoeal disease morbidity, exacerbated by the lack of access to proper sanitation and the common practice of open defecation (44%) in Nepal.\n\nPeriods of stagnant economic growth and political instability have contributed to acute food shortages and high rates of malnutrition, mostly affecting vulnerable women and children in the hills and mountains of the mid and far western regions. Despite the rate of individuals with stunted growth and the number of cases of underweight individuals having decreased, alongside an increase of exclusive breastfeeding in the past seven years, 41% of children under the age of five still suffer from stunted growth, a rate that increases to 60% in the western mountains. A report from DHS 2016, has shown that in Nepal, 36% of children are stunted (below -2 standard deviation), 12% are severely stunted (below -3 standard deviation), 27% of children under 5 are underweight, and 5% are severely underweight. Variation in the percentage of stunted and underweight children under 5 can be compared between urban and rural regions of Nepal, with rural areas being more affected (40% stunted and 31% underweight) than urban areas (32% stunted and 23% underweight). There is positive association between household food consumption scores and lower prevalence of stunting, underweight and wasting. Children in a secure food household have the lowest rates of stunting (33%), while children in an insecure food household have the highest rates (49%). Similarly, maternal education has an inverse relationship with childhood stunting. In addition, underweight and stunting issues are also inversely correlated to their equity possessions. Children in the lowest wealth quintile are more stunted (49%) and underweight (33%) than children in the highest quintile (17% stunted and 12% underweight).\n\nThe nutritional status of children in Nepal has improved over the last two decades. Decreasing trends of children having stunted growth and being underweight have been observed since 2001. The percentage of stunted children in Nepal was 14% between 2001 and 2006, 16% between 2006 and 2011, and 12% between 2011 and 2016. A similar trend can also observed for underweight children. These trends demonstrate progress towards the achievement of the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) target. However, there is still a long way to go to meet the SDG target of reducing stunting to 31% and underweight to 25% among children under 5 by 2017 (National Planning Commission 2015).\n\nMicro-nutrient deficiencies are widespread, with almost half of pregnant women and children under five, as well as 35% of women of reproductive age, being anaemic. Only 24% of children consume iron-rich food, 24% of children meet a minimally acceptable diet, and only half of the pregnant women take recommended iron supplementation during pregnancy. A contributing factor to deteriorating nutrition is high diarrheal disease morbidity, exacerbated by the lack of access to proper sanitation and the common practice of open defecation (44%) in Nepal.\nMuch of rural Nepal is located on hilly or mountainous regions. Nepal's rugged terrain and the lack of properly enabling infrastructure make it highly inaccessible, limiting the availability of basic health care in many rural mountain areas. In many villages, the only mode of transportation is by foot. This results in a delay of treatment, which can be detrimental to patients in need of immediate medical attention. Most of Nepal's health care facilities are concentrated in urban areas. Rural health facilities often lack adequate funding.\n\nIn 2003, Nepal had 10 health centers, 83 hospitals, 700 health posts, and 3,158 \"sub-health posts,\" which serve villages. In addition, there were 1,259 physicians, one for every 18,400 persons. In 2000, government funding for health matters was approximately USD $2.30 per person and approximately 70% of health expenditure came from contributions. Government allocations for health were around 5.1% of the budget for the 2004 fiscal year, and foreign donors provided around 30% of the total budget for health expenditure.\n\nNepal’s health care issues are largely attributed to its political power and resources being mostly centered in its capital, Kathmandu, resulting in the social exclusion of other parts of Nepal. The restoration of democracy in 1990 has allowed the strengthening of local institutions. The 1999 Local Self Governance Act aimed to include devolution of basic services such as health, drinking water, and rural infrastructure but the program has not provided notable public health improvements. Due to a lack of political will, Nepal has failed to achieve complete decentralisation, thus limiting its political, social and physical potential.\n\nIn 2010, the average Nepalese lived to 65.8 years. According to the latest WHO data published in 2012, life expectancy in Nepal is 68. Life Expectancy at birth for both sexes increased by 6 years over the year 2010 and 2012. In 2012, healthy expectancy in both sexes was 9 year(s) lower than overall life expectancy at birth. This lost healthy life expectancy represents 9 equivalent year(s) of full health lost through years lived with morbidity and disability\n\nAccording to WHO data, the nine leading causes of morbidity (illness) and mortality (death) in Nepal are:\n\nMaking up approximately 8.1% of the total estimated population of 40,723, there were about 3,282 children aged 14 years or younger living with HIV in Nepal in 2013. There are 3,385 infections estimated among the population aged 50 years and above (8.3% of the total population). By sex, males account for two‐thirds (66%) of the infections and the remaining, more than one‐third (34%) of infections are in females, out of which around 92.2% are in the reproductive age group of 15‐49 years. The male to female sex ratio of total infection decreased from 2.15 in 2006 to 1.95 in 2013 and is projected to be 1.86 by 2020. The epidemic in Nepal is driven by injecting drug users, migrants, sex workers & their clients and MSM. Results from the 2007 Integrated Bio-Behavioral Surveillance Study (IBBS) among IDUs in Kathmandu, Pokhara, and East and West Terai indicate that the highest prevalence rates have been found among urban IDUs, 6.8% to 34.7% of whom are HIV-positive, depending on location. In terms of absolute numbers, Nepal's 1.5 million to 2 million labor migrants account for the majority of Nepal’s HIV-positive population. In one subgroup, 2.8% of migrants returning from Mumbai, India, were infected with HIV, according to the 2006 IBBS among migrants.\n\nAs of 2007, HIV prevalence among female sex workers and their clients was less than 2% and 1%, respectively, and 3.3% among urban-based MSM. HIV infections are more common among men than women, as well as in urban areas and the far western region of Nepal, where migrant labor is more common. Labor migrants make up 41% of the total known HIV infections in Nepal, followed by clients of sex workers (15.5 percent) and IDUs (10.2 percent).\n\nNepal has made significant progress in improving the health of women and children and is on track in 2013 to achieve Millennium Development Goal (MDGs) #4 (to reduce child mortality) and #5A (to reduce maternal mortality). This review provided an opportunity for the MoHP and other stakeholders in Nepal to synthesize and document how these improvements were made, focusing on effective policy and program management practices.\n\nNepal has made significant progress in improving maternal health. Maternal mortality rate was reduced from 748 per 100,000 live births in 1990 to 190 per 100,000 live births on 2014. Nepal also has made some progress on reducing total fertility rate (TFR), from 5.3 in 1991 to 2.3 in 2014.\n\nDespite other indicators related to maternal health, the indicator of contraceptive prevalence rate is showing a decreasing trend: 2006 (44.2%) and 2011 (43.2%), and has been attributed to high rates of spousal separation due to migration to other countries for employment (3/4 of youth in rural areas). The use of maternal health services has improved (increased) since 1996, with increases in the coverage and number of ANC visits (60% for at least four antenatal visits) in 2014, rates of institutional deliveries as well as deliveries attended by a skilled birth attendant (56%).\n\nNepal is also on track to achieve MDG 4, having attained a rate of 35.8 under 5 child deaths per 1000 live births in 2015, down from 162 in 1991 according to national data. Global estimates indicate that the rate has been reduced by 65% from 128 to 48 per 1000 live births between 1991 and 2013. Nepal has successfully improved coverage of effective interventions to prevent or treat the most important causes of child mortality through a variety of community-based and national campaign approaches. These include high coverage of semiannual vitamin A supplementation and deworming; CB-IMCI; high rates of full child immunization; and moderate coverage of exclusive breastfeeding of children under 6 months. However, in the past few years, the NMR has remained stagnant with it being stated at around 22.2 deaths per 1000 live births in 2015. This compares to a rate of 27.7 in India (2015) and 45.5 in Pakistan (2015).\n\nThe NMR is a serious concern in Nepal, accounting for 76% of the infant mortality rate (IMR) and 58% of the under 5 mortality rate (U5MR) as of 2015, and is one of its challenges going forward. Typically, a history of conflict negatively affects health indicators. However, Nepal made progress in most health indicators despite its decade-long armed conflict. Attempts to understand this has provided a number of possible explanations including the fact that in most instances the former rebels did not purposely disrupt delivery of health services; pressure was applied on health workers to attend clinics and provide services in rebel base areas; the conflict created an environment for improved coordination among key actors; and Nepal’s public health system adopted approaches that targeted disadvantaged groups and remote areas, particularly community-based approaches for basic service delivery with a functional community support system through female community health volunteers (FCHVs), women’s groups and Health Facility Operational Management Committees (HFOMCs).\n\nThe Nepalese Child Health Division of the Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP), has launched several child survival interventions, including various operational initiatives, to improve the health of children in Nepal. These include the Expanded Program on Immunisation (EPI), the Community-Based Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (CB-IMCI) program, the Community-Based Newborn Care Program (CB-NCP), the Infant and Young Child Feeding program, a micro-nutrients supplementation program, vitamin A and deworming campaign, and the Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition program.\n\nThe National Immunisation Program is a priority 1 (P1) program in Nepal. Since the inception of the program, it has been universally established and successfully implemented. Immunisation services can be obtained for free from EPI clinics in hospitals, other health centers, mobile and outreach clinics, non-governmental organizations and private clinics. The government has provided all vaccines and immunization-related logistics without any cost to hospitals, private institutions, and nursing homes. Nepal has since gained recognition for the success of the program, in relation to its successful coverage of 97% population equally, regardless of wealth, gender and age. However, despite the widespread success of the National Immunisation Program, inequities still exist. Nevertheless, the trends in last past 15 years have shown promising positive changes indicating possibilities of achieving complete immunization coverage. Two more vaccines were introduced between 2014 and 2015 – the inactivated poliomyelitis vaccine (IPV) and the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV). Six districts of Nepal are declared with 99.9% immunization coverage. Nepal achieved polio-free status on 27 March 2014. Neonatal and maternal tetanus was already eliminated in 2005 and Japanese encephalitis is in a controlled state. Nepal is also on track to meet the target of the elimination of measles by 2019. One percent of children in Nepal have not yet received any of the vaccine coverage.\n\nThe Community-Based Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (CB-IMCI) program is an integrated package that addresses the management of diseases such as pneumonia, diarrhea, malaria, and measles, as well as malnutrition, among children aged 2 months to 5 years. It also includes management of infection, Jaundice, Hyperthermia and counseling on breastfeeding for young infants less than 2 months of age. CB-IMCI program has been implemented up to the community level in all the districts of Nepal and it has shown positive results in the management of childhood illnesses. Over the past decade, Nepal has had success in reducing under-five mortality, largely due to the implementation of the CB-IMCI program. Initially, the Control of Diarrheal Diseases (CDD) Program began in 1982; and the Control of Acute Respiratory Infections (ARI) Program was initiated in 1987. The CDD and ARI programs were merged into the CB-IMCI program in 1998.\n\nThe Nepal Family Health Survey 1996, Nepal Demographic and Health Surveys, and World Health Organization estimations over time have shown that neonatal mortality in Nepal has been decreasing at a slower rate than infant and child mortality. The Nepal Demographic and Health Survey 2011 has shown 33 neonatal deaths per 1,000 live births, which accounts for 61% of under 5 deaths. The major causes of neonatal death in Nepal are an infection, birth asphyxia, preterm birth, and hypothermia. Given Nepal’s existing health service indicators, it becomes clear that strategies to address neonatal mortality in Nepal must consider the fact that 72% of births take place at home (NDHS 2011).\n\nTherefore, as an urgent step to reduce neonatal mortality, Ministry of Health and Population (MoHP) initiated a new program called 'Community-Based Newborn Care Package' (CB-NCP) based on the 2004 National Neonatal Health Strategy.\n\nThe National Nutrition Program under the Department of Health Services has set it's ultimate goal as “all Nepali people living with adequate nutrition, food safety and food security for adequate physical, mental and social growth and equitable human capital development and survival” with the mission to improve the overall nutritional status of children, women of childbearing age, pregnant women, and all ages through the control of general malnutrition and the prevention and control of micronutrient deficiency disorders having a broader inter and intra sectoral collaboration and coordination, partnership among different stakeholders and high level of awareness and cooperation of population in general.\n\nMalnutrition remains a serious obstacle to child survival, growth, and development in Nepal. The most common form of malnutrition is protein-energy malnutrition (PEM). Other common forms of malnutrition are iodine, iron, and vitamin A deficiency. These deficiencies often appear together in many cases. Moderately acute and severely acutely malnourished children are more likely to die from common childhood illness than those adequately nourished. In addition, malnutrition constitutes a serious threat to young children and is associated with about one-third of child mortality. Major causes of PEM in Nepal is low birth weight of below 2.5 kg due to poor maternal nutrition, inadequate dietary intake, frequent infections, household food insecurity, poor feeding behaviour and poor care & practices leading to an intergenerational cycle of malnutrition.\n\nAn analysis of the causes of stunted growth in Nepal reveals that around half is rooted in poor maternal nutrition, and the other half in poor infant and young child nutrition. Around a quarter of babies are born with a low birth weight. As per the findings of Nepal Demographic and Health Survey (NDHS, 2011), 41 percent of children below 5 years of age are stunted. A survey by NDHS and NMICS also showed that 30% of the children are underweight and 11% of children below 5 years are wasted.\n\nIn order to address under-nutrition problems in young children, the Government of Nepal (GoN) has implemented:\n\nThe hospital-based nutrition management and rehabilitation program treats severe malnourished children at Out-patient Therapeutic Program (OTP) centres in Health Facilities. As per requirement, the package is linked with the other nutrition programs such as the Child Nutrition Grant, Micronutrient powder (MNP) distribution to young children (6 to 23 months) .\n\nUNICEF and WHO recommended that children be exclusively breastfed (no other liquid, solid food, or plain water) during the first six months of life (WHO/UNICEF, 2002). The nutrition program under the 2004 National Nutrition Policy and Strategy promotes exclusive breastfeeding through the age of 6 months and, thereafter, the introduction of semisolid or solid foods along with continued breast milk until the child is at least age 2. Introducing breast milk substitutes to infants before age 6 months can contribute to breastfeeding failure. Substitutes, such as formula, other kinds of milk and porridge are often watered down and provide too few calories. Furthermore, possible contamination of these substitutes exposes the infant to the risk of illness. Nepal’s Breast Milk Substitute Act (2049) of 1992 promotes and protects breastfeeding and regulates the unauthorized or unsolicited sale and distribution of breast milk substitutes.\n\nAfter six months, a child requires adequate complementary foods for normal growth. Lack of appropriate complementary feeding may lead to malnutrition and frequent illnesses, which in turn may lead to death. However, even with complementary feeding, the child should continue to be breastfed for two years or more.\n\nRoad traffic injuries are one of the global health burdens, an eighth leading cause of death worldwide. Globally, approximately 1.25 million lives are cut short every year because of a road traffic injuries. Ranging from 20 to 50 million people become victims of non-fatal injuries, with many acquiring a disability for the rest of the life as a result of their injury. In Nepal, a road traffic accident rank eighth among killer causes of disability-adjusted life years and also eighth among premature cause of death after Non-Communicable Diseases and Communicable Diseases. \n\nA substantial problem of road traffic accident with fatalities occurs mainly on highways caused by bus crashes in Nepal. Due to the country's geography, bus accidents mostly happen in the hilly region and along the long-distance route causing 31 percent of fatalities and serious injuries every year. Accidents involving motorcycles, micro-buses, cars etc highly prevail in the capital city, Kathmandu compared to other cities and lowland areas. The number of Road Traffic Accidents in the capital city was (53.5±14.1) of the number for the entire country. People between 15 to 40 ages are the most affected group followed by those above 50 years and majorities were male making 73 percent of disability-adjusted life years. The number of registered vehicles in Bagmati Zone was 129,557, a 29.6 percent of the whole nation in fiscal year 2017/2018. \n\nThe table below shows the trend of fatality per 10000 vehicles between 2005 and 2013.\n\n\"source: Traffic Accidents Record, Traffic Directorate, Nepal Police, 2013.\"\n\nIn terms of the network of mental health facilities, there are 18 outpatient mental health facilities, 3 day treatment facilities, and 17 community-based psychiatric inpatient units available in the country. The majority of the mental health service users are treated in outpatient facilities. Thirty-seven percent of patients are female. The patients admitted to mental hospitals belong primarily to the following two diagnostic groups: Schizophrenia, schizotypal and delusional disorders (34%) and Mood [affective] disorders (21%). On average, patients spend 18.85 days in mental hospitals. All of the patients spent less than one year in the mental hospital during the year of assessment.\n\nTwo percent of the training for medical doctors is devoted to mental health, and the same percentage is provided for nurses. One Non Government Organization is running a community mental health service in 7 of the 75 districts in the country. In other districts, community mental health services are not available, as mental health services are not yet integrated into the general health service system.\n\nEven though Nepal's mental health policy was formulated in 1996, there is no mental health legislation as yet. In terms of financing, less than one percent (0.17%) of health care expenditures by the government are directed towards mental health. There is no human right review body to inspect mental health facilities and impose sanctions on those facilities that persistently violate patients' rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52445929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52445929", "title": "Healthcare UK", "text": "Healthcare UK\n\nHealthcare UK is an agency of the British government which promotes the UK healthcare sector to overseas markets and supports healthcare partnerships between the UK and overseas healthcare providers. It is a joint initiative between the Department of Health, UK Trade & Investment and NHS England, with offices in London.\n\nHoward Austin Lyons, the former Managing Director, was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 2016 Birthday Honours after launching the organisation in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "316759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316759", "title": "Hyperprolactinaemia", "text": "Hyperprolactinaemia\n\nHyperprolactinaemia or hyperprolactinemia is the presence of abnormally high levels of prolactin in the blood. Normal levels are less than 500 mIU/L [20 ng/mL or µg/L] for women, and less than 450 mI U/L for men.\n\nProlactin is a peptide hormone produced by the anterior pituitary gland that is primarily associated with lactation and plays a vital role in breast development during pregnancy. Hyperprolactinaemia may cause galactorrhea (production and spontaneous flow of breast milk) and disruptions in the normal menstrual period in women and hypogonadism, infertility and erectile dysfunction in men.\n\nHyperprolactinaemia can also be a part of normal body changes during pregnancy and breastfeeding. It can also be caused by diseases affecting the hypothalamus and pituitary gland. It can also be caused by disruption of the normal regulation of prolactin levels by drugs, medicinal herbs and heavy metals inside the body. Hyperprolactinaemia may also be the result of disease of other organs such as the liver, kidneys, ovaries and thyroid.\n\nIn women, a high blood level of prolactin often causes hypoestrogenism with anovulatory infertility and a decrease in menstruation. In some women, menstruation may disappear altogether (amenorrhoea). In others, menstruation may become irregular or menstrual flow may change. Women who are not pregnant or nursing may begin producing breast milk. Some women may experience a loss of libido (interest in sex) and breast pain, especially when prolactin levels begin to rise for the first time, as the hormone promotes tissue changes in the breast. Intercourse may become difficult or painful because of vaginal dryness.\n\nIn men, the most common symptoms of hyperprolactinaemia are decreased libido, sexual dysfunction (in both men and women), erectile dysfunction, infertility, and gynecomastia. Because men have no reliable indicator such as menstruation to signal a problem, many men with hyperprolactinaemia being caused by a pituitary adenoma may delay going to the doctor until they have headaches or eye problems caused by the enlarged pituitary pressing against the adjacent optic chiasm. They may not recognize a gradual loss of sexual function or libido. Only after treatment do some men realize they had a problem with sexual function.\n\nBecause of hypoestrogenism and hypoandrogenism, hyperprolactinaemia can lead to osteoporosis.\n\nHyperprolactinaemia may be caused by either disinhibition (e.g., compression of the pituitary stalk or reduced dopamine levels) or excess production from a prolactinoma (a type of pituitary adenoma). A blood serum prolactin level of 1000–5000 mIU/L could be from either mechanism, but >5000 mIU/L (>200 µg/L) is likely due to the activity of an adenoma; macroadenomas (large tumours over 10 mm diameter) have levels of prolactin up to 100,000 mIU/L.\n\nHyperprolactinemia inhibits the secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from the hypothalamus (by increasing the release of dopamine from the arcuate nucleus), which in turn inhibits the release of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) from the pituitary gland and results in diminished gonadal sex hormone production (termed hypogonadism). This is the cause of many of the symptoms described below.\n\nIn many people, elevated prolactin levels remain unexplained and may represent a form of hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis dysregulation.\n\nPhysiological (i.e., non-pathological) causes include: pregnancy, breastfeeding, and mental stress.\n\nProlactin secretion in the pituitary is normally suppressed by the brain chemical dopamine. Drugs that block the effects of dopamine at the pituitary or deplete dopamine stores in the brain may cause the pituitary to secrete prolactin. These drugs include the typical antipsychotics: phenothiazines such as chlorpromazine (Thorazine), and butyrophenones such as haloperidol (Haldol); atypical antipsychotics such as risperidone (Risperdal) and paliperidone (Invega); gastroprokinetic drugs used to treat gastro-oesophageal reflux and medication-induced nausea (such as that from chemotherapy): metoclopramide (Reglan) and domperidone; less often, alpha-methyldopa and reserpine, used to control hypertension; and also estrogens and TRH. The sleep drug ramelteon (Rozerem) also increases the risk of hyperprolactinaemia. A benzodiazepine analog, etizolam, can also increase the risk of hyperprolactinaemia. In particular, the dopamine antagonists metoclopramide and domperidone are both powerful prolactin stimulators and have been used to stimulate breast milk secretion for decades. However, since prolactin is antagonized by dopamine and the body depends on the two being in balance, the risk of prolactin stimulation is generally present with all drugs that deplete dopamine, either directly or as a rebound effect.\n\nProlactinoma or other tumours arising in or near the pituitary — such as those that cause acromegaly may block the flow of dopamine from the brain to the prolactin-secreting cells, likewise, division of the pituitary stalk or hypothalamic disease. Other causes include chronic kidney failure, hypothyroidism, bronchogenic carcinoma and sarcoidosis. Some women with polycystic ovary syndrome may have mildly-elevated prolactin levels.\n\nNonpuerperal mastitis may induce transient hyperprolactinemia (neurogenic hyperprolactinemia) of about three weeks' duration; conversely, hyperprolactinemia may contribute to nonpuerperal mastitis.\n\nApart from diagnosing hyperprolactinaemia and hypopituitarism, prolactin levels are often checked by physicians in patients that have suffered a seizure, when there is doubt as to whether they have had an epileptic seizure or a non-epileptic seizure. Shortly after epileptic seizures, prolactin levels often rise, whereas they are normal in non-epileptic seizures.\n\nA doctor will test for prolactin blood levels in women with unexplained milk secretion (galactorrhea) or irregular menses or infertility, and in men with impaired sexual function and milk secretion. If prolactin is high, a doctor will test thyroid function and ask first about other conditions and medications known to raise prolactin secretion. While a plain X-ray of the bones surrounding the pituitary may reveal the presence of a large macro-adenoma, the small micro-adenoma will not be apparent. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the most sensitive test for detecting pituitary tumours and determining their size. MRI scans may be repeated periodically to assess tumour progression and the effects of therapy. Computed Tomography (CT scan) also gives an image of the pituitary, but it is less sensitive than the MRI.\n\nIn addition to assessing the size of the pituitary tumour, doctors also look for damage to surrounding tissues, and perform tests to assess whether production of other pituitary hormones is normal. Depending on the size of the tumour, the doctor may request an eye exam with measurement of visual fields.\n\nThe hormone prolactin is downregulated by dopamine and is upregulated by oestrogen. A falsely-high measurement may occur due to the presence of the biologically-inactive macroprolactin in the serum. This can show up as high prolactin in some types of tests, but is asymptomatic.\n\nTreatment is usually medication with dopamine agonists such as cabergoline, bromocriptine (often preferred when pregnancy is possible), and less frequently lisuride. A new drug in use is norprolac with the active ingredient quinagolide. Terguride is also used.\n\n\"Vitex agnus-castus\" extract can be tried in cases of mild hyperprolactinaemia.\n\nThe following eponyms were established before prolactin levels could be measured reliably in the clinical setting. On occasion, they are still encountered:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18823914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18823914", "title": "ICECI", "text": "ICECI\n\nThe International Classification of External Causes of Injury (ICECI) is a medical classification providing codes for external injuries. It is designed to aid professionals and researchers in the statistical tracking and prevention of injury. \n\nFirst released in 2001, the ICECI is a Related Classification in the WHO Family of International Classifications (WHO-FIC). It is related to ICD-10 (External causes of morbidity and mortality). While the ICD-10 classifies injuries in and of themselves, the ICECI allows for systematic description of the causes and circumstances surrounding the injury. \n"}
{"id": "7455726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7455726", "title": "Idiopathic osteosclerosis", "text": "Idiopathic osteosclerosis\n\nIdiopathic osteosclerosis is a condition which may be found around the roots of a tooth. It is usually painless and found during routine radiographs. It appears as a radiopaque (light area) around a tooth, usually a premolar or molar. There is no sign of inflammation of the tooth.\n\nFocal radiodensity of the jaw which is NOT inflammatory, dysplastic, neoplastic or a manifestation of a systemic disease.\nThis is common and affects 5% of the population, usually seen in teens and those in their 20s. Typically asymptomatic and is an incidental finding on a radiograph. found anywhere in the jaw, most commonly in the mandibular premolar-molar region. The shape ranges from round to linear streaks to occasional angular forms.\n\nA reaction to past trauma or infection but it's difficult to rule out in some cases.\n\nUsual diagnosis is via radiograph, patient history, biopsy is rarely needed. Periodic follow ups should included additional radiographs that show minimal growth or regression.\n\nWell defined, rounded or triangular radiodensity, that is uniformly opaque. There is no lucent component. Found near the root apex or in the inter-radicular area. Root resorption and tooth movement are rare.\n\nCondensing osteitis, sclerosing osteomyelitis, Enostosis cementoblastoma, hypercementosis, Exostoses (tori).\nCondensing osteitis may resemble idiopathic osteosclerosis, however, associated teeth are always nonvital in condensing osteitis.\n\nNo treatment is necessary.\n\n"}
{"id": "1455630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1455630", "title": "Instituto de Biología y Medicina Experimental", "text": "Instituto de Biología y Medicina Experimental\n\nThe Experimental Medicine and Biology Institute (, IByME) is a research and development centre affiliated to the University of Buenos Aires, in Buenos Aires, Argentina.\n\nThe institute was privately founded on March 14, 1944 by Dr. Bernardo A. Houssay, Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine (1947) for his work in diabetes and the control of the carbohydrate metabolism. Drs. Eduardo Braun-Menéndez, Oscar Orías, Juan T. Lewis and Virgilio G. Foglia were co-founders. The founding of the Institute was motivated by the dismissal of Dr. Houssay, together with 150 other professors from the University of Buenos Aires, by the military government. Dr. Houssay became its director and brought to work with him several colleagues and students. The initiative was made possible by the support of Dr. Miguel F. Laphitzondo and others who granted financial contributions in memory of Juan B. Sauberán.\n\nThe institute was the first organization devoted to scientific research in Argentina. Its initial structure resembled that of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research (now Rockefeller University, New York, United States) and of the Pasteur Institute, Paris, France. In 1949, the Institute was established as a chartered foundation recognized by the National Bureau of Non-Profit Entitites (\"Registro Nacional de Entidades de Bien Público\").\n\nLater on, several Houssay’s disciples left the Institute to settle research groups in many Argentine and other Latin American universities. Many research laboratories were founded following the model of Houssay’s Institute. For example, Dr. Miguel Rolando Covian chaired the Department of Physiology of the Faculty of Medicine of Ribeirão Preto of the University of São Paulo from 1952 to 1986, giving origin to a large scientific group in Brazil.\n\nOn January 16, 1959, Eduardo Braun Menéndez, who played an outstanding role in the life of the Institute, died. His vacancy in the Board of Directors was filled by Dr. Luis F. Leloir who would later receive the Nobel Prize in Chemistry (1970).\n\nAfter Dr. Houssay and others were reintegrated into the University of Buenos Aires, in 1959, the Institute was affiliated to this University, remaining so until today. Dr. Bernardo Houssay was the director of the Institute until his death in 1971. Thereupon, an Administrative Commission led by Prof. Dr. Virgilio Foglia, assisted by Dr. Julia V. Uranga and Dr. Luis F. Leloir, undertook the Institute's affairs. The Institute established legal associations with the National Scientific and Technical Research Council.\n\nThe death of Prof. Dr. Luis F. Leloir, in December 1987, and the growth of the Institute prompted the need of increasing the number of members in the Administrative Commission. Accordingly, the necessary changes in the Institute Bylaws were submitted to the National Bureau of Legal Entitites (\"Dirección General de Personas Jurídicas\") for approval. While the new Bylaws were under consideration, Drs. Alberto Baldi, Jorge Blaquier, Ricardo Calandra, Eduardo Charreau, Alejandro De Nicola, Enrique Segura, Alicia Roldán, Enrique del Castillo, Carlos Libertun, and Marta Tesone collaborated with Dr. Virgilio G. Foglia and Dr. Uranga in the administration of the Institute.\n\nOn July 12, 1993, the Institute was given the status of a Unit of Technological Transfer by the Argentinian Secretary of Science and Technology. This enabled the participation of technological and scientific sectors as consultants to productive sectors, public or private, both in the selection and adaptation of available technology and in the transfer of results derived from research.\n\nThe interests of the Institute can be grouped into three categories: \n\nThe Institute is the site for the Argentine Committee of the Postdoctoral Program of selection of postdoctoral research fellowships in the area of Biomedical Sciences granted by John E. Fogarty International Center from the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland; such Committee being chaired by Dr. Eduardo Charreau.\n\nHistorically, the main discoveries were in the fields of endocrinology and physiology. The current research areas are wider and include Neurosciences, Biology of Reproduction, Experimental Oncology and Immunology. Results are published in journals of international recognition, thus demonstrating the level of excellence reached by the different research groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "21603398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21603398", "title": "Jacob M. Appel", "text": "Jacob M. Appel\n\nJacob M. Appel (born February 21, 1973) is an American author, poet, bioethicist, physician, lawyer and social critic. He is best known for his short stories, his work as a playwright, and his writing in the fields of reproductive ethics, organ donation, neuroethics and euthanasia. Appel's novel \"The Man Who Wouldn't Stand Up\" won the Dundee International Book Prize in 2012. He is Director of Ethics Education in Psychiatry at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City.\n\nAppel was born in the Bronx and raised in Scarsdale, New York, and Branford, Connecticut. His family is Jewish. He completed his BA at Brown University with double majors in English and American literature and in history (1995). He has seven master's degrees: from Brown (MA in European history, 1996), Columbia University (MA in American history, 1998, and MPhil, 2000), New York University (MFA in creative writing with a focus in fiction, 2000), Albany Medical College, constituent of the Union University of New York (MS in bioethics, 2012), and then completed his MFA in playwriting from Queens College of the City University of New York (2013) and MPH from the Mount Sinai School of Medicine (2014) Furthermore, he has a JD from Harvard Law School (2003) and an MD from the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons (2009). He completed his residency and fellowship at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City and is a practicing psychiatrist there. He is also licensed to practice law in New York and Rhode Island. \n\nAppel is a \"prolific\" short story writer. His fiction has been published in two hundred fifteen literary journals including \"Agni\", \"The Alaska Quarterly Review\", \"The Gettysburg Review\", \"The Missouri Review\", \"StorySouth\" and \"Virginia Quarterly Review\". His first story collection, \"Scouting for the Reaper\", won Black Lawrence Press's Hudson Prize in 2012. Among the other awards he has won for his short stories are those sponsored by the \"Boston Review\" (1998) and \"New Millennium Writings\" (2004, 2007, 2008). He won the William Faulkner-William Wisdom Award for best short story in 2004 and a Sherwood Anderson Foundation grant in 2005. His fiction has been short-listed for the O. Henry Prize (2001), \"Best American Short Stories\" (2007, 2008, 2013), \"Best American Nonrequired Reading\" (2006, 2007), \"Best American Mystery Stories\" (2009) and the Pushcart Prize (2006, 2007, 2011, 2014).\n\nHis debut novel, \"The Man Who Wouldn't Stand Up\", won the 2012 Dundee International Book Prize and was published by Cargo in October 2012. It was described as a \"A darkly comic satire, full of insight into American culture\" by Stephen Fry and \"engaging, funny, ingenious, even charming\" by Philip Pullman. His book subsequently won The International Rubery Book Award in 2013.\n\nHis plays have been performed by companies across the U.S., including the Detroit Repertory Theatre, Heller Theatre, and Epilogue Players.\n\nAppel has taught creative writing at the Gotham Writers' Workshop and New York University. He served as Writer-in-Residence at Yeshiva College in 2013.\n\nAs a professional bioethicist, Appel has published in \"Hastings Center Report\", \"The Cambridge Quarterly of Healthcare Ethics\", \"Bulletin of the History of Medicine\", \"The Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics\", \"The Journal of Medical Ethics\", \"The Journal of Bioethical Inquiry\" and \"GeneWatch\", the journal of the Council for Responsible Genetics. He is the author of a \"Bioethics in Action\" curriculum for \"The New York Times\".\n\nAppel is an advocate for the decriminalization of assisted suicide, raising the possibility that this might be made available to both the terminally ill and those with intractable, long-term mental illness. He has also defended the Groningen Protocol. He has written in favor of abortion rights and fertility treatment for homosexuals, as well as against electronic medical records, which he sees as poorly secured against hacking. He has also argued in favor of the legalization of prostitution, polygamy and incest between consenting adults. He has raised concerns regarding the possibility that employers will require their employees to use pharmaceuticals for cognitive enhancement and has urged that death row inmates be eligible to receive kidney transplants. He generated considerable controversy for endorsing the mandatory use of preimplantation genetic diagnosis as part of the in vitro fertilization process to prevent the implantation of embryos carrying severe genetic defects. Appel has also written in support of an \"open border\" immigration policy. Among the causes that Appel has embraced is opposition to the forcible feeding of hunger strikers, both in domestic prisons and at Guantanamo Bay.\n\nHe has taught medical ethics at New York University, Columbia University, Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Brown University's Alpert Medical School.\n\nAppel writes for both The Huffington Post and Opposing Views. He has staked out a libertarian position of many bioethical issues, advocating a worldview that he describes as \"a culture of liberty.\" He has also authored opinion pieces in \"The New York Times\", \"New York Daily News\", \"New York Post\", \"Chicago Tribune\", \"Orlando Sentinel\", \"Albany Times-Union\", \"Tucson Citizen\", \"Detroit Free Press\", \"New Haven Register\", \"Baltimore Sun\" and \"The Providence Journal\". \"The Best American Essays\" series named his nonfiction pieces as \"notable essays\" in the years 2011, 2012, 2013, 2015 and 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32608580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32608580", "title": "Kerala Water Authority", "text": "Kerala Water Authority\n\nKerala Water Authority is an autonomous authority established in Trivandrum city for the development and regulation of water supply and waste water collection and disposal in the state of Kerala, India. It is a government-owned organization and hence a monopoly in most parts of the state. The authority was founded on 1 April 1984. Kerala Water Authority is governed by a board chaired by the Chairman, usually the Principal Secretary / Secretary, Department of Water Resources, Government of Kerala. The board also includes the secretaries of the departments of finance, local self-government, the executive director of KRWSA, Managing Director, Technical member, Accounts Member of Kerala Water Authority and three members from local self-government institutions.\n"}
{"id": "48637704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48637704", "title": "Liri Berisha", "text": "Liri Berisha\n\nLiri Berisha, née Ramaj, is an Albanian pediatrician and president of the Albanian Children Foundation, and also an UNICEF ambassador.\n\nShe is the wife of Sali Berisha, the former President and Prime Minister of Albania, with whom she has two children, daughter Argita, and son Shkëlzen.\n\nLiri Berisha was born Slobodanka Ramaj, the daughter of Rexhep Ramaj Balidemaj, an ethnic Albanian from Martinovići near Plav, at the time part of Yugoslavia (now Montenegro), and Milica Bulatović, a Serbian woman of Montenegrin descent born and raised in Belgrade. After the Yugoslav-Albanian split in 1948, her name was changed by the government to Liri.\n\nIn 2008, Berisha founded the Mother Teresa Cultural Foundation. In 2009, the Women's Information Network named Berisha \"Woman of the Year\".\n\nBerisha joined Autism Speaks in 2011 in celebrating the opening of a new centre for autistic children in Albania, calling the centre a way to improve the lives of children with autism there.\n\n"}
{"id": "20602027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20602027", "title": "List of people in chiropractic", "text": "List of people in chiropractic\n\nThis is a list of people in the chiropractic profession, comprising chiropractors and other people who have been notably connected with the profession. Many are important to the development or practice of chiropractic; they do not necessarily have DC degrees.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31917120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31917120", "title": "List of rampage killers (Oceania and Maritime Southeast Asia)", "text": "List of rampage killers (Oceania and Maritime Southeast Asia)\n\nThis section of the list of rampage killers contains those cases that occurred in Oceania and Maritime Southeast Asia.\n\nThis section does not include school massacres; workplace killings; religious, political, or racial crimes; or mass murders that took place primarily in a domestic environment, like familicides, which are covered in their own categories. Cases where the primary motive for the murders was to facilitate or cover up another felony, like robbery, are also excluded.\n\nA rampage killer has been defined as follows:\n\nThis list should contain every case with at least one of the following features:\n\n\nAll abbreviations used in the table are explained below.\nW – A basic description of the weapons used in the murders\n"}
{"id": "18426731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18426731", "title": "MAKNA", "text": "MAKNA\n\nMAKNA (Majlis Kanser Nasional) or National Cancer Council Malaysia is a not-for-profit social enterprise mainly tasked to pool and utilize every effort, expertise and welfare from every faction of society to fight cancer and to reduce the pain, suffering and morbidity that the cancer patients often experience. It aims to provide curative care, preventive care, cancer research and support services to cancer patients and their families, high-risk groups and the general public in Malaysia and throughout the world.\n\nMAKNA registered under the Register of Societies Malaysia on 10 November 1994 and officially launched on 30 March 1995. It was founded by Dato’ Mohd Farid Ariffin in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The organization is named after the Malay language word for 'meaning' (\"makna\") and its slogan is \"A Meaning to Life\".\n\nOrganisation of consistent cancer to those who are implemented in raising the quality of life, MAKNA for the first time in 2011 . MAKNA has been diversified to support and conduct research in basic sciences and clinical research on cancer and a healthy lifestyle . Makna is registered under the Registrar of Societies Malaysia on 10 November 1994 and was officially launched on 30 March 1995 . MAKNA Bursary Program, which is a monetary assistance project providing financially challenged cancer types and the patients ' background . MAKNA has been diversified to support the nature of different cancer information effectively to all levels of society . Over the years, the type of services offered by MAKNA Bursary Program, which could lead to innovative treatment cost .\n\nDato' Mohd Farid Arifin, its founder, has vast management, organisational and entrepreneurship experience, having served as a teacher, lecturer and lawyer and later as Deputy Finance Minister (1987 – 1989) and Deputy Health Minister (1989 – 1995).\n\nMAKNA was set up from his own family experience, and today it is a home-grown organisation fully focused on cancer.\n\nHis teenage son Farul Rafiq was 17 when diagnosed with leukemia in 1992. Farul was flown to London, England (Hammersmith Hospital) for treatment. There, he underwent a regimented treatment which included an autologous bone marrow transplant, which was not yet available in Malaysia. A few years into battling the diseases, he was finally certified cancer-free.\n\nWhile recuperating at the hospital in London, Dato’ Mohd Farid’s family made a promise that on their return to Malaysia, they would set up a cancer organisation aimed to help those from lower income groups gain access to cancer treatment.\n\nOn 4 August 2011, Farul died of lung fibrosis.\n\nPresident & Founder: Dato’ Mohd Farid Ariffin \nGeneral Manager: Farahida Mohd Farid\n\nBoard of Trustees:\nYAM Tengku Puteri Lela Wangsa Pahang Tengku Tan Sri Hajah Meriam Binti Sultan Haji Ahmad Shah (PSM SIMP, JP)\nToh Puan Sri Sagiyah Salikin (Wife to Chairman of PNB Tun Dato' Seri Ahmad Sarji)\n\nExecutive Committee:\nVice President: Prof Emeritus Dr Cheong Soon Keng (Dean UTAR & Heamatologist PPUKM)\nHonorary Secretary: Eric Lai Tuck Sing (Lawyer, Lai & Associate)\nAsst Honorary Secretary: Dato' Freida Dato' Mohd Pilus (Chairman Sek Sri Cempaka Int)\nHonorary Treasurer: Zainol Talib (Chartered Fin Consultant & Life Underwriter Training Council Fellow)\nAsst Honorary Treasurer: Douglas Tan Hock Kee (Exec Dir, Asian Business Solutions Sdn Bhd)\n\nMember: \nPuan Mimi Hafizan Abdul Rahman (Director of Klinik Nina)\nMs Yeo Eng Lam (MD Kemajuan Abadi Sdn Bhd)\nProf Datin Paduka Dr Aini Ideris (Deputy Vice Chancellor UPM)\nProf Dr Ishak Mat (Deputy Dir Research Advance Media & Dental Institute USM, Penang)\nProf Dr Jafri Malin Abdullah (Head of Dept Sch of Medicine HUSM Kubang Kerian, Kelantan)\n\nOver the years, the type of services offered by MAKNA have been diversified to support the nature of different cancer types and the patients' background that were assisted by the organization. MAKNA's core activities are support service, treatment, education & awareness, research, fund & development and international division.\n\nBursary - Provides monthly financial assistance of RM150-RM500 to needy cancer patients upon referral from Hospital Medical Social Department. Intervention is provided in the form of necessities such as non-formulae drugs, surgical equipments, prosthesis, colostomy bags and wheelchairs. Every year, the Bursary programme aids over 4,000 patients with annual allocation of RM10 million.\n\nMicro Credit - Implemented to provide small unsecured loans to cancer patients, survivors and their families for income improvement through business activities, are interest free and require no collateral.\n\nYoung Cancer Survivor Scholarship - Aims to support young cancer survivors to further their tertiary studies. Underprivileged cancer survivors aged 25 or younger with the right potential and interest will be given assistance for a better future through education.\n\nHome Visits - All patients under the Bursary programme are visited at home by the MAKNA Home Visit Team, Volunteers and Staff to evaluate their treatment progress and socio-economic status.\n\nCancer Support Group\nMAKNA Cancer Helpline (MCH) - Toll-free helpline and infoline for cancer patients, their families and general public.\n\nHalfway House - It is a house which allows patients and their caretakers who are from afar to stay for a short while waiting to receive treatment from the hospital. The current halfway house is located in Taman Mount Austin, Johor. MAKNA is planning to open a total of nine halfway houses in a span of two years; including three planned halfway houses in Bertam in Pulau Pinang, Kubang Kerian in Kelantan and Kuching, Sarawak.\n\nVolunteer Management - Volunteerism is vital to a non-profit organisation like MAKNA. Every year, more people realise the essential services that volunteers provide and seek to be part of this noble calling. By registering as volunteers they offer invaluable contribution and assistance in MAKNA's mission to help cancer sufferers and combat the disease.\n\nPPUKM - MAKNA Cancer Centre\nEstablished in 1999, the centre comprises The Tengku Ampuan Afzan Oncology Ward, Radiotherapy, Research facilities and Bone Marrow Transplant Unit which is one of the largest in the country. In 2014, 1,396 patients received treatment at the centre.\n"}
{"id": "39730302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39730302", "title": "Maxillary lateral incisor agenesis", "text": "Maxillary lateral incisor agenesis\n\nMaxillary lateral incisor agenesis (MLIA) is lack of development (agenesis) of one or both of the maxillary lateral incisor teeth. In normal human dentition, this would be the second tooth on either side from the center of the top row of teeth. The condition is bilateral if the incisor is absent on both sides or unilateral if only one is smissing. It appears to have a genetic component.\n\nBecause MLIA can be detected from partial skeletal remains, it is useful in the field of anthropology. Anthropologically-interesting human remains often have relatively well preserved skeletons, but no soft tissues or intact DNA. This makes it hard to determine relationships between the deceased individuals. MLIA is sometimes related to inbreeding, so the presence of MLIA in many members of a large collection of remains can indicate that the population that lived there was relatively inbred. This technique has been used to study a group of Neolithic farmers.\n\n"}
{"id": "32017666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32017666", "title": "Mekong Basin Disease Surveillance", "text": "Mekong Basin Disease Surveillance\n\nThe Mekong Basin Disease Surveillance (MBDS) consortium is a self-organised and sub-regional co-operation spearheaded by health ministries from member countries to collaborate on infectious disease surveillance and control. The co-operation focuses on cross-border co-operation at selected sites and has matured through several phases of work. PRO/MBDS is a component of the outbreak reporting system ProMED-mail.\n\nThe Ministries of Health of Cambodia, China, Lao PDR, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam signed the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in 2001 in Kunming, China, with the Regional Coordinating office agreed to be located in the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), Thailand.\n\nCambodia: Prof. Sann Chan Soeung (Deputy Director General, Ministry of Health)\n\nChina: Dr. Wang Liying (Director, Ministry of Health)\n\nLao PDR: Dr. Bounlay Phommasack (Deputy Director General, Ministry of Health)\n\nMyanmar: Prof. Saw Lwin (Deputy Director General, Ministry of Health)\n\nThailand: Dr. Kumnuan Ungchusak (Senior Expert, Ministry of Public Health)\n\nVietnam: Dr. Nguyen Hoang Long (Vice Director, Ministry of Health)\n\nDr. Moe Ko Oo\nMBDS Coordinator, c/o Ministry of Public Health\n\nMBDS has applied epidemiology and GIS, initiated tabletop exercises (TTXs) on Pandemic Preparedness in country and regional levels in 2006 and 2007. It is prepared to conduct at least one outbreak investigation, TTX or drill at each cross-border site each year, seeking to conduct joint investigation of a zoonotic disease as a particular priority.\n\nIn May 2007, the extension of MOU was signed by the six MBDS health ministers in Geneva, for indefinite time period. With the increasing number of cross-border sites, MBDS developed a new 6-year action plan focusing on seven inter-\nrelated core strategies.\n\nIt piloted cross-border co-operation, with the exchange of regular disease information on a daily, weekly, monthly or quarterly basis, cross-border meetings, monitoring and evaluation, multi-sector engagement (especially immigration, local authorities), cross-border epidemiologic case history, cross-border medical care and clinical follow-up to nearby provincial areas. It has used 2-way ICT-based communications between local, provincial and central levels in routine surveillance reporting and outbreak investigation (examples include equipment and protocols for communications through internet, cell phone SMS messaging, satellite telephones, telephone hotline, email).\n\nIt has also trained field epidemiologist and health officials of Member Countries through treating FETP alumni as training staff for countries to establish new long-term and short-term epidemiology training programs, at the same time enhancing short-course training in each member country by supporting curriculum design and training or providing lecturers/expert. During 2006-2007, 110 workers were trained in either field epidemiology and disease surveillance, analytical techniques or social, political and economic aspects of border health.\n\nAn unprecedented joint avian influenza investigation was triggered when an infected Lao citizen was found in Thailand. Since then, Vietnam and Lao PDR also carried out joint investigations for outbreaks of typhoid and malaria.\n\nMBDS partners with Rockefeller Foundation (RF), Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI), Google, RAND, World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations System Influenza Coordination (UNSIC), US Agency for International Development (USAID)/Kenan Institute, Asian Development Bank (ADB), Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), Google.org, InSTEDD, ChangeFusion, Opendream.\n\n"}
{"id": "31145657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31145657", "title": "Military Hospital (Nouakchott)", "text": "Military Hospital (Nouakchott)\n\nThe Military Hospital is a hospital in northeastern Nouakchott, Mauritania. It is located to the northeast of the Ophthalmological Hospital.\n\nIn October 2012 Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz, Mauritania's president, spent eight hours in this hospital. He had been operated upon by two doctors after being shot by government troops in what was said to be an accident. He was flown to France for further treatment after his stay in the hospital.\n"}
{"id": "411772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411772", "title": "Monocle", "text": "Monocle\n\nA monocle is a type of corrective lens used to correct or enhance the vision in only one eye. It consists of a circular lens, generally with a wire ring around the circumference that can be attached to a string or wire. The other end of the string is then connected to the wearer's clothing to avoid losing the monocle. The antiquarian Philipp von Stosch wore a monocle in Rome in the 1720s, in order to closely examine engravings and antique engraved gems, but the monocle did not become an article of gentlemen's apparel until the nineteenth century. It was introduced by the dandy's quizzing glass of the 1790s, as a sense of high fashion.\n\nThere are three styles of monocle. The first style consists of a simple loop of metal with a lens which was slotted into the eye orbit. These were the first monocles worn in England and could be found from the 1830s onwards. The second style, which was developed in the 1890s, was the most elaborate, consisting of a frame with a raised edge-like extension known as the \"gallery\". The gallery was designed to help secure the monocle in place by raising it out of the eye's orbit slightly, so that the eyelashes would not jar it. Monocles with galleries were often the most expensive. The very wealthy would have the frames custom-made to fit their eye sockets. A sub-category of the galleried monocle was the \"sprung gallery\", where the gallery was replaced by an incomplete circle of flattened, ridged wire supported by three posts. The ends were pulled together, the monocle was placed in the eye orbit, and the ends released, causing the gallery to spring out and keep the monocle in place.\nThe third style of monocle was frameless. This consisted of a cut piece of glass, with a serrated edge to provide a grip and sometimes a hole drilled into one side for a cord. Often the frameless monocle had no cord and would be worn freely. This style was popular at the beginning of the 20th century as the lens could be cut to fit any shape eye orbit inexpensively, without the cost of a customized frame.\n\nIt is a myth that wearing a monocle is uncomfortable. If customised, monocles could be worn securely with little effort. However, periodic adjustment is a fact of life for monocle wearers to keep the monocle from popping, as can be seen in films featuring Erich von Stroheim. Often only the rich could afford to have a monocle custom-fabricated, while the poor had to settle for ill-fitting monocles that were both less comfortable and less secure. The popular perception was (and still is) that a monocle could easily fall off with the wrong facial expression. This is true to an extent, as raising the eyebrow too far will allow the monocle to fall. A once-standard comedic device exploits this: an upper-class gentleman effects a shocked expression in response to some event, and his monocle falls into his drink, or smashes to pieces on the floor, etc. \nAnother myth is that Abraham Lincoln wore a monocle. It has also been said that he created his own style of monocle and wore it when he was away from the public or very rarely when in public. \n\nThe quizzing glass should not be confused with a monocle, since it is held to one's eye with a handle in a fashion similar to a lorgnette. A quizzing glass is not held by the eye socket itself.\n\nDuring the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the monocle was generally associated with wealthy upper-class men. Combined with a morning coat and a top hat, the monocle completed the costume of the stereotypical 1890s capitalist. Monocles were also accessories of German military officers from this period; especially from World War I and World War II. German military officers known to have worn a monocle include Hans Krebs, Werner von Fritsch, Erich Ludendorff, Walter Model, Walter von Reichenau, Dietrich von Saucken, Hans von Seeckt, and Hugo Sperrle.\n\nMonocles were most prevalent in the late 19th century, but are rarely worn today. This is due in large part to advances in optometry which allow for better measurement of refractive error, so that glasses and contact lenses can be prescribed with different strengths in each eye.\n\nThe monocle did, however, gain a following in the stylish lesbian circles of the early 20th century, when lesbians would don a monocle for effect. Such women included Una Lady Troubridge, Radclyffe Hall, and Weimar German reporter Sylvia von Harden. (The painting \"Portrait of the Journalist Sylvia Von Harden\" by German expressionist painter Otto Dix depicts its subject sporting a monocle.)\n\nFamous figures who wore a monocle include British politicians Joseph Chamberlain, his son Austen, Henry Chaplin, and Angus Maude. Percy Toplis (The Monocled Mutineer), founder of Pakistan Mohammad Ali Jinnah, Portuguese President António de Spínola, filmmakers Fritz Lang and Erich von Stroheim, prominent 19th-century Portuguese writer Eça de Queiroz, Soviet writer Mikhail Bulgakov, actor Conrad Veidt, Dadaists Tristan Tzara and Raoul Hausmann, esotericist Julius Evola, French collaborationist politician Louis Darquier de Pellepoix, Poet laureate Alfred Lord Tennyson, singer Richard Tauber, diplomat Christopher Ewart-Biggs (a smoked-glass monocle, to disguise his glass eye), Major Johnnie Cradock, actors Ralph Lynn, George Arliss and Martyn Green, and Karl Marx. In another vein, G. E. M. Anscombe was one of only a few noted women who occasionally wore a monocle. Famous wearers of the 21st century so far include astronomer Sir Patrick Moore, and former boxer Chris Eubank. Abstract expressionist painter Barnett Newman wore a monocle mainly for getting a closer look at artworks. Richard Tauber wore a monocle to mask a squint in one eye.\n\nFictional characters that wear monocles include Planters mascot Mr. Peanut, aristocratic 1920s sleuth Lord Peter Wimsey, the P. G. Wodehouse character Psmith, Batman antagonist the Penguin, and \"Avengers\" antagonist and leader of HYDRA Baron Wolfgang Von Strucker. Count von Count from the children's program \"Sesame Street\" wears a monocle to show his distinction as a count. The \"New Yorker\" mascot Eustace Tilley, an early 19th-century dandy, is depicted using a monocle like a quizzing glass. A monocle is also a distinctive part of the costume of at least three Gilbert & Sullivan characters: Major-General Stanley in \"The Pirates of Penzance\", Sir Joseph Porter in \"H.M.S. Pinafore\", and Reginald Bunthorne in \"Patience\", and composer Sullivan used one himself. In some variant productions, numerous other characters sport the distinctive eyewear, and some noted performers of the \"G&S\" repertoire also have worn a monocle. The Doctor as played by William Hartnell wore one. The French gentleman thief Arsene Lupin is commonly said to have a monocle, and is illustrated with it on whenever not under a disguise. Edgar Bergen's famous dummy Charlie McCarthy wore a monocle and was normally attired in formal wear. Werner Klemperer as Kommandant Wilhelm Klink in \"Hogan's Heroes\" usually wore one in his left eye. Doc Savage aide 'Johnny' Littlejohn wore a monocle, as he was blind in one eye.\n\n"}
{"id": "36234369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36234369", "title": "Napa State Hospital", "text": "Napa State Hospital\n\nNapa State Hospital is a psychiatric hospital in Napa, California, founded in 1875. It is located along California State Route 221, also known as the Napa Vallejo Highway. One of California's five state hospitals, Napa State holds civil and forensic patients in a sprawling 138 acre campus. According to a hospital spokesperson, there were 2,338 people employed at the facility during the 2016-2017 fiscal year, making it one of the region's largest employers.\n\nThe Napa Valley Cricket Club play their matches at McGrath Field, a multi-use sports field, at the eastern end of the Napa State Hospital campus.\n\nOriginally named Napa Insane Asylum, the facility opened on November 15, 1875. It sat on of property stretching from the Napa River to what is now Skyline Park. The property was originally part of Rancho Tulucay, part of a Mexican Land Grant, sold by Cayetano Juarez to the State of California in 1872. The facility was originally built to relieve overcrowding at Stockton Asylum. By the early 1890s the facility had over 1,300 patients which was over double the original capacity it was designed to house. The original main building known as \"The Castle\" was an ornate and imposing building constructed with bricks. Facilities on the property included a large farm that included dairy and poultry ranches, vegetable garden and fruit orchards that provided a large part of the food supply consumed by the residents.\n\nIt is also the site of The Cramps famous 1978 show when several patients attempted to escape. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "44300998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44300998", "title": "National Stroke Awareness Month", "text": "National Stroke Awareness Month\n\nNational Stroke Awareness Month is observed in the United States annually during the month of May. National Stroke Awareness Month was created to promote public awareness and reduce the incidence of stroke in the United States.\n\nNational Stroke Awareness Month began in May 1989 after President George H. W. Bush signed the Presidential Proclamation 5975. National Stroke Awareness Month aims to increase the public awareness about the warning signs of stroke, symptoms of a stroke, stroke prevention, and the impact of stroke on survivors, families and caregivers. The United States Government, along with National Stroke Association, the American Heart Association, and other non-profits, work together to educate the American people about the prevention of stroke and provide key resources to stroke survivors.\n\nBecause tPA, a clot-busting drug, can only be administered to stroke patients within the first three hours of the onset of stroke, recognizing the symptoms of stroke is very important. National Stroke Awareness Month aims to educate Americans to recognize the symptoms of stroke.\n\n80 percent of strokes are caused by lifestyle; therefore, strokes are largely preventable. Although some stroke risk factors, such as age or race, cannot be controlled, there are many other steps individuals can take to reduce their risk of stroke.\n"}
{"id": "10051102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10051102", "title": "Nothing About Us Without Us", "text": "Nothing About Us Without Us\n\n\"Nothing About Us Without Us!\" (Latin: \"Nihil de nobis, sine nobis\") is a slogan used to communicate the idea that no policy should be decided by any representative without the full and direct participation of members of the group(s) affected by that policy. This involves national, ethnic, disability-based, or other groups that are often thought to be marginalized from political, social, and economic opportunities.\n\nThe saying has its origins in Central European political traditions. It was the political motto that helped establish—and, loosely translated into Latin, provided the name for—Poland's 1505 constitutional legislation, \"Nihil novi\", which first transferred governing authority from the monarch to the parliament. It subsequently became a byword for democratic norms. In this use, it is closely analogous to one of the most familiar slogans of the American Revolutionary War, 'No taxation without representation'.\nIt is also a long-standing principle of Hungarian law and foreign policy, and was a cornerstone of the foreign policy of interwar Poland. \n\nThe term in its English form came into use in disability activism during the 1990s. James Charlton relates that he first heard the term used in talks by South African disability activists Michael Masutha and William Rowland, who had in turn heard the phrase used by an unnamed East European activist at an earlier international disability rights conference. In 1998, Charlton used the saying as title for a book on disability rights. Disability rights activist David Werner used the same title for another book, also published in 1998. \n\nThe saying has since moved from the disability rights movement to other interest group, identity politics, and populist movements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47991497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47991497", "title": "Pancreatic cyst", "text": "Pancreatic cyst\n\nA pancreatic cyst is a fluid filled sac within the pancreas.\nCauses range from benign to malignant. Pancreatic pseudocysts can occur in the setting of pancreatitis, though they are only reliably diagnosed 6 weeks after the episode of acute pancreatitis.\n\nBenign tumors such as serous cystadenomas can occur. Main branch intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMNs) are associated with dilatation of the main pancreatic duct, while side branch IPMNs are typically benign, and not associated with dilatation. MRCP can help distinguish the position of the cysts relative to the pancreatic duct, and direct appropriate treatment and follow-up. The most common malignancy that can present as a pancreatic cyst is a mucinous cystic neoplasm.\n\nCysts from 1–5 mm on CT or ultrasound are typically too small to characterize and considered benign. No further imaging follow-up is recommended for these lesions. Cysts from 6–9 mm require a single follow-up in 2–3 years, preferably with MRCP to better evaluate the pancreatic duct. If stable at follow-up, no further imaging follow-up is recommended. For cysts from 1–1.9 cm follow-up is suggested with MRCP or multiphasic CT in 1–2 years. If stable at follow-up, the interval of imaging follow-up is increased to 2–3 years. Cysts from 2–2.9 cm have more malignant potential, and a baseline endoscopic ultrasound is suggested, followed by MRCP or multiphasic CT in 6–12 months. If patients are young, surgery may be considered to avoid the need for prolonged surveillance. If these cysts are stable at follow-up, interval imaging follow-up can be done in 1–2 years.\n"}
{"id": "5780856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5780856", "title": "Patient safety", "text": "Patient safety\n\nPatient safety is a discipline that emphasizes safety in health care through the prevention, reduction, reporting, and analysis of medical error that often leads to adverse effects. The frequency and magnitude of avoidable adverse events experienced by patients was not well known until the 1990s, when multiple countries reported staggering numbers of patients harmed and killed by medical errors. Recognizing that healthcare errors impact 1 in every 10 patients around the world, the World Health Organization calls patient safety an endemic concern. Indeed, patient safety has emerged as a distinct healthcare discipline supported by an immature yet developing scientific framework. There is a significant transdisciplinary body of theoretical and research literature that informs the science of patient safety. The resulting patient safety knowledge continually informs improvement efforts such as: applying lessons learned from business and industry, adopting innovative technologies, educating providers and consumers, enhancing error reporting systems, and developing new economic incentives.\n\nMillennia ago, Hippocrates recognized the potential for injuries that arise from the well-intentioned actions of healers. Greek healers in the 4th century BC drafted the Hippocratic Oath and pledged to \"prescribe regimens for the good of my patients according to my ability and my judgment and never do harm to anyone.\" \nSince then, the directive \"primum non nocere\" (“first do no harm) has become a central tenet for contemporary medicine. However, despite an increasing emphasis on the scientific basis of medical practice in Europe and the United States in the late 19th Century, data on adverse outcomes were hard to come by and the various studies commissioned collected mostly anecdotal events.\n\nIn the United States, the public and the medical specialty of anesthesia were shocked in April 1982 by the ABC television program 20/20 entitled \"The Deep Sleep\". Presenting accounts of anesthetic accidents, the producers stated that, every year, 6,000 Americans die or suffer brain damage related to these mishaps. \nIn 1983, the British Royal Society of Medicine and the Harvard Medical School jointly sponsored a symposium on anesthesia deaths and injuries, resulting in an agreement to share statistics and to conduct studies. \nBy 1984 the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) had established the Anesthesia Patient Safety Foundation (APSF). The APSF marked the first use of the term \"patient safety\" in the name of professional reviewing organization. Although anesthesiologists comprise only about 5% of physicians in the United States, anesthesiology became the leading medical specialty addressing issues of patient safety. Likewise in Australia, the Australian Patient Safety Foundation was founded in 1989 for anesthesia error monitoring. Both organizations were soon expanded as the magnitude of the medical error crisis became known.\n\nIn the United States, the full magnitude and impact of errors in health care was not appreciated until the 1990s, when several reports brought attention to this issue.\nIn 1999, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) of the National Academy of Sciences released a report, \"To Err is Human: Building a Safer Health System\". \nThe IOM called for a broad national effort to include establishment of a Center for Patient Safety, expanded reporting of adverse events, development of safety programs in health care organizations, and attention by regulators, health care purchasers, and professional societies. The majority of media attention, however, focused on the staggering statistics: from 44,000 to 98,000 preventable deaths annually due to medical error in hospitals, 7,000 preventable deaths related to medication errors alone. Within 2 weeks of the report's release, Congress began hearings and President Clinton ordered a government-wide study of the feasibility of implementing the report's recommendations.\nInitial criticisms of the methodology in the IOM estimates focused on the statistical methods of amplifying low numbers of incidents in the pilot studies to the general population. However, subsequent reports emphasized the striking prevalence and consequences of medical error.\n\nThe experience has been similar in other countries. \n\nEffective communication is essential for ensuring patient safety. Communicating starts with the provisioning of available information on any operational site especially in mobile professional services. Communicating continues with the reduction of administrative burden, releasing the operating staff and easing the operational demand by model driven orders, thus enabling adherence to a well executable procedure finalised with a qualified minimum of required feedback.\n\nThe use of effective communication among patients and healthcare professionals is critical for achieving a patient's optimal health outcome. However, according to the Canadian Patient Safety Institute, ineffective communication has the opposite effect as it can lead to patient harm. Communication with regards to patient safety can be classified into two categories: prevention of adverse events and responding to adverse events. Use of effective communication can aid in the prevention of adverse events, whereas ineffective communication can contribute to these incidences. If ineffective communication contributes to an adverse event, then better and more effective communication skills must be applied in response to achieve optimal outcomes for the patient's safety. There are different modes in which healthcare professionals can work to optimize the safety of patients which include both verbal and nonverbal communication, as well as the effective use of appropriate communication technologies.\n\nMethods of effective verbal and nonverbal communication include treating patients with respect and showing empathy, clearly communicating with patients in a way that best fits their needs, practicing active listening skills, being sensitive with regards to cultural diversity and respecting the privacy and confidentiality rights of the patient. To use appropriate communication technology, healthcare professionals must choose which channel of communication is best suited to benefit the patient. Some channels are more likely to result in communication errors than others, such as communicating through telephone or email (missing nonverbal messages which are an important element of understanding the situation). It is also the responsibility of the provider to know the advantages and limitations of using electronic health records, as they do not convey all information necessary to understanding patient needs. If a health care professional is not practicing these skills, they are not being an effective communicator which may affect patient outcome.\n\nThe goal of a healthcare professional is to aid a patient in achieving their optimal health outcome, which entails that the patient's safety is not at risk. Practice of effective communication plays a large role in promoting and protecting patient safety.\n\nDuring complex situations, communication between health professionals must be at its best. There are several techniques, tools, and strategies used to improve communication. Any team should have a clear purpose and each member should be aware of their role and be involved accordingly. To increase the quality of communication between people involved, regular feedback should be provided. Strategies such as briefings allow the team to be set on their purpose and ensure that members not only share the goal but also the process they will follow to achieve it. Briefings reduce interruptions, prevent delays and build stronger relationships, resulting in a strong patient safety environment.\n\nDebriefing is another useful strategy. Healthcare providers meet to discuss a situation, record what they learned and discuss how it might be better handled. Closed loop communication is another important technique used to ensure that the message that was sent is received and interpreted by the receiver. SBAR is a structured system designed to help team members communicate about the patient in the most convenient form possible. Communication between healthcare professionals not only helps achieve the best results for the patient but also prevents any unseen incidents.\n\nAs is the case in other industries, when there is a mistake or error made people look for someone to blame. This may seem natural, but it creates a blame culture where \"who\" is more important than \"why\" or \"how\". A \"just culture\", also sometimes known as \"no blame\" or \"no fault\", seeks to understand the root causes of an incident rather than just who was involved.\n\nIn health care, there is a move towards a patient safety culture. This applies the lessons learned from other industries, such as aviation, marine, and industrial, to a health care setting.\n\nWhen assessing and analyzing an incident, individuals involved are much more likely to be forthcoming with their own mistakes if they know that their job is not at risk. This allows a much more complete and clear picture to be formed of the facts of an event. From there, root cause analysis can occur. There are often multiple causative factors involved in an adverse or near miss event. It is only after all contributing factors have been identified that effective changes can be made that will prevent a similar incident from occurring.\n\nAfter an adverse event occurs, each country has its own way of dealing with the incident. In Canada, a quality improvement review is primarily used. A quality improvement review is an evaluation that is completed after an adverse event occurs with the intention to both fix the problem, as well as preventing it from happening again. The individual provinces and territories have laws on whether it is required to disclose the quality improvement review to the patient. Healthcare providers have an obligation to disclose any adverse event to their patients because of ethical and professional guidelines. If more providers participate in the quality improvement review, it can increase interdisciplinary collaboration and can sustain relationships between departments and staff. In the US, clinical peer review is used: uninvolved medical staff review the event and work toward preventing further incidents.\n\nThe disclosure of adverse events is important in maintaining trust in the relationship between healthcare provider and patient. It is also important in learning how to avoid these mistakes in the future by conducting quality improvement reviews, or clinical peer review. If the provider accurately handles the event, and disclose it to the patient and their family, he/she can avoid getting punished, which includes lawsuits, fines and suspension.\n\nThe simplest definition of a health care error is a preventable adverse effect of care, whether or not it is evident or harmful to the patient. Errors have been, in part, attributed to:\n\nThe Joint Commission's Annual Report on Quality and Safety 2007 found that inadequate communication between healthcare providers, or between providers and the patient and family members, was the root cause of over half the serious adverse events in accredited hospitals. Other leading causes included inadequate assessment of the patient's condition, and poor leadership or training.\n\nCommon misconceptions about adverse events are:\n\n\n\n\nAccording to a study by RAND Health, the U.S. healthcare system could save more than $81 billion annually, reduce adverse healthcare events, and improve the quality of care if health information technology (HIT) is widely adopted. The most immediate barrier to widespread adoption of technology is cost despite the patient benefit from better health, and payer benefit from lower costs. However, hospitals pay in both higher costs for implementation and potentially lower revenues (depending on reimbursement scheme) due to reduced patient length of stay. The benefits provided by technological innovations also give rise to serious issues with the introduction of new and previously unseen error types.\n\nHandwritten reports or notes, manual order entry, non-standard abbreviations and poor legibility lead to substantial errors and injuries, according to the IOM (2000) report. The follow-up IOM report, \"Crossing the Quality Chasm: A New Health System for the 21st Century\", advised rapid adoption of electronic patient records, electronic medication ordering, with computer- and internet-based information systems to support clinical decisions. This section contains only the patient safety related aspects of HIT.\n\nThe Electronic health record (EHR), previously known as the Electronic medical record (EMR), reduces several types of errors, including those related to prescription drugs, to emergency and preventive care, and to tests and procedures. Important features of modern EHR include automated drug-drug/drug-food interaction checks and allergy checks, standard drug dosages and patient education information. Drug Information at the point-of-care and drug dispensing points help in reducing errors. Example: India, MedCLIK. Also, these systems provide recurring alerts to remind clinicians of intervals for preventive care and to track referrals and test results. Clinical guidelines for disease management have a demonstrated benefit when accessible within the electronic record during the process of treating the patient. Advances in health informatics and widespread adoption of interoperable electronic health records promise access to a patient's records at any health care site. Still, there may be a weak link because of physicians' deficiencies in understanding the patient safety features of e.g. government approved software. Errors associated with patient misidentification may be exacerbated by EHR use, but inclusion of a prominently displayed patient photograph in the EHR can reduce errors and near misses.\n\nPortable offline emergency medical record devices have been developed to provide access to health records during widespread or extended infrastructure failure, such as in natural disasters or regional conflicts.\n\nThese systems' basic security measures are based on sound identifying electronic tags, in order that the patient details provided in different situations are always reliable. These systems offer three differently qualified options: \n\nAny of these options may be applied whenever and wherever patient details are required in electronic form Such identifying is essential when the information concerned is critical. There are increasing numbers of hospitals that have an RFID system to identify patients, for instance: Hospital La Fe in Valencia(Spain); Wayne Memorial Hospital (US); Royal Alexandria Hospital (UK).\n\nPrescribing errors are the largest identified source of preventable errors in hospitals (IOM, 2000; 2007). The IOM (2006) estimates that each hospitalized patient, on average, is exposed to one medication error each day. Computerized provider order entry (CPOE), formerly called computerized physician order entry, can reduce medication errors by 80% overall but more importantly decrease harm to patients by 55%. A Leapfrog (2004) survey found that 16% of US clinics, hospitals, and medical practices are expected to utilize CPOE within 2 years.\nA standardized bar code system for dispensing drugs might prevent 25% of drug errors. Despite ample evidence to reduce medication errors, compete medication delivery systems (barcoding and Electronic prescribing) have slow adoption by doctors and hospitals in the United States, due to concern with interoperability and compliance with future national standards. Such concerns are not inconsequential; standards for electronic prescribing for Medicare Part D conflict with regulations in many US states.\n\nA standardized, modular technology system that allows a hospital, clinic, or health system record their Incidents that include falls, medication errors, pressure ulcers, near misses, etc. These systems can be configured to specific workflows and the analytics behind it will allow for reporting and dashboards to help learn from things that have gone wrong (and right). Some vendors include Datix, RL Solutions, Verge, Midas, and Quantros.\n\nTechnology induced errors are significant and increasingly more evident in care delivery systems. \nThis idiosyncratic and potentially serious problems associated with HIT implementation has recently become a tangible concern for healthcare and information technology professionals. As such, the term technological iatrogenesis describes this new category of adverse events that are an emergent property resulting from technological innovation creating system and microsystem disturbances. Healthcare systems are complex and adaptive, meaning there are many networks and connections working simultaneously to produce certain outcomes. When these systems are under the increased stresses caused by the diffusion of new technology, unfamiliar and new process errors often result. If not recognized, over time these new errors can collectively lead to catastrophic system failures. The term \"e-iatrogenesis\" can be used to describe the local error manifestation. The sources for these errors include:\nSolutions include ongoing changes in design to cope with unique medical settings, supervising overrides from automatic systems, and training (and re-training) all users.\n\nEvidence-based medicine integrates an individual doctor's exam and diagnostic skills for a specific patient, with the best available evidence from medical research. The doctor's expertise includes both diagnostic skills and consideration of individual patient's rights and preferences in making decisions about his or her care. The clinician uses pertinent clinical research on the accuracy of diagnostic tests and the efficacy and safety of therapy, rehabilitation, and prevention to develop an individual plan of care. The development of evidence-based recommendations for specific medical conditions, termed clinical practice guidelines or \"best practices\", has accelerated in the past few years. In the United States, over 1,700 guidelines (see example image, right) have been developed as a resource for physicians to apply to specific patient presentations. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) in the United Kingdom provides detailed \"clinical guidance\" for both health care professionals and the public about specific medical conditions. National Guideline Agencies from all continents collaborate in the Guidelines International Network, which entertains the largest guideline library worldwide.\n\nAdvantages:\n\nDrawbacks:\n\nCommunity pharmacy practice is making important advances in the quality and safety movement despite the limited number of federal and state regulations that exist and in the absence of national accreditation organizations such as the Joint Commission - a driving force for performance improvement in health care systems. Community pharmacies are using automated drug dispensing devices (robots), computerized drug utilization review tools, and most recently, the ability to receive electronic prescriptions from prescribers to decrease the risk for error and increase the likelihood of delivering high quality of care.\n\nQuality Assurance (QA) in community practice is a relatively new concept. , only 16 states have some form of legislation that regulates QA in community pharmacy practice. While most state QA legislation focuses on error reduction, North Carolina has recently approved legislation that requires the pharmacy QA program to include error reduction strategies and assessments of the quality of their pharmaceutical care outcomes and pharmacy services.\n\nNew technologies facilitate the traceability tools of patients and medications. This is particularly relevant for drugs that are considered high risk and cost.\n\nQuality improvement and patient safety is a major concern in the pediatric world of health care. This next section will focus on quality improvement and patient safety initiatives in inpatient settings.\n\nOver the last several years, pediatric groups have partnered to improve general understanding, reporting, process improvement methodologies, and quality of pediatric inpatient care. These collaborations have created a robust program of projects, benchmarking efforts, and research. Much of the research and focus on adverse events has been on medication errors–the most frequently reported adverse event for both adult and pediatric patients. It is also of interest to note that medication errors are also the most preventable type of harm that can occur within the pediatric population. It has been reported that when pediatric medication errors occur, these patients have a higher rate of death associated with the error than adult patients. A more recent review of potential pediatric safety issues conducted by Miller, Elixhauser, and Zhan found that hospitalized children who experienced a patient safety incident, compared with those who did not, had \nIn order to reduce these errors the attention on safety needs to revolve around designing safe systems and processes. Slonim and Pollack point out that safety is critical to reduce medical errors and adverse events. These problems can range from diagnostic and treatment errors to hospital-acquired infections, procedural complications, and failure to prevent problems such as pressure ulcers. In addition to addressing quality and safety issues found in adult patients there are a few characteristics that are unique to the pediatric population.\n\n\nOne of the main challenges faced by pediatric safety and quality efforts is that most of the work on patient safety to date has focused on adult patients. In addition, there is no standard nomenclature for pediatric patient safety that is widely used. However, a standard framework for classifying pediatric adverse events that offers flexibility has been introduced. Standardization provides consistency between interdisciplinary teams and can facilitate multisite studies. If these large-scale studies are conducted, the findings could generate large-scale intervention studies conducted with a faster life cycle.\n\nLeaders in Pediatric Safety and Quality\n\nThe Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) is the Federal authority for patient safety and quality of care and has been a leader in pediatric quality and safety. AHRQ has developed Pediatric Quality Indicators (PedQIs) with the goal to highlight areas of quality concern and to target areas for further analysis. Eighteen pediatric quality indicators are included in the AHRQ quality measure modules; based on expert input, risk adjustment, and other considerations. Thirteen inpatient indicators are recommended for use at the hospital level, and five are designated area indicators. Inpatient indicators are treatments or conditions with the greatest potential of an adverse event for hospitalized children.\n\nPossible additions to the dataset will address the patient’s condition on admission and increase the understanding of how laboratory and pharmacy utilization impact patient outcomes. The goal of AHRQ is to refine the area-level indicators to improve outcomes for children receiving outpatient care and reduce the incidence of hospitalization for those defined conditions.\n\nCollaborations for Pediatric Safety and Quality\n\nNumerous groups are engaged in improving pediatric care, quality and safety. Each of these groups has a unique mission and membership. The following table details these groups’ missions and websites.\n\nNurse Staffing and Pediatric Outcomes\n\nWhile the number of nurses providing patient care is recognized as an inadequate measure of nursing care quality, there is hard evidence that nurse staffing is directly related to patient outcomes. Studies by Aiken and Needleman have demonstrated that patient death, nosocomial infections, cardiac arrest, and pressure ulcers are linked to inadequate nurse-to-patient ratios. The presence or absence of registered nurses (RNs) impacts the outcome for pediatric patients requiring pain management and/or peripheral administration of intravenous fluids and/or medications. These two indicators of pediatric nursing care quality are sensitive measures of nursing care. Professional nurses play a key role in successful pain management, especially among pediatric patients unable to verbally describe pain. Astute assessment skills are required to intervene successfully and relieve discomfort.33 Maintenance of a patient’s intravenous access is a clear nursing responsibility. Pediatric patients are at increased risk for intravenous infiltration and for significant complications of infiltration, should it occur.\n\nThe characteristics of effective indicators of pediatric nursing care quality include the following: \n\nConclusions\n\nPediatric care is complex due to developmental and dependency issues associated with children. How these factors impact the specific processes of care is an area of science in which little is known. Throughout health care providing safe and high quality patient care continues to provide significant challenges. Efforts to improve the safety and quality of care are resource intensive and take continued commitment not only by those who deliver care, but also by agencies and foundations that fund this work. Advocates for children’s health care must be at the table when key policy and regulatory issues are discussed. Only then will the voice of our most vulnerable groups of health care consumers be heard.\n\nWorking Hours of Nurses and Patient Safety\n\nA recent increase in work hours and overtime shifts of nurses has been used to compensate for the decrease of registered nurses (RNs). Logbooks completed by nearly 400 RNs have revealed that about \"40 percent of the 5,317 work shifts they logged exceeded twelve hours.\" Errors by hospital staff nurses are more likely to occur when work shifts extend beyond 12 hours, or they work over 40 hours in one week. Studies have shown that overtime shifts have harmful effects on the quality of care provided to patients, but some researchers \"who evaluated the safety of 12-hour shifts did not find increases in medication errors.\" The errors which these researchers found were \"lapses of attention to detail, errors of omission, compromised problem solving, reduced motivation\" due to fatigue as well as \"errors in grammatical reasoning and chart reviewing.\" Overworked nurses are a serious safety concern to their patients wellbeing. Working back to back shifts, or night shifts, are a common cause of fatigue in hospital staff nurses. \"Less sleep, or fatigue, may lead to increased likelihood of making an error, or even the decreased likelihood of catching someone else's error.\" Limiting working hours and shift rotations could \"reduce the adverse effects of fatigue\" and increase the quality of care of patients.\n\nHealth literacy is a common and serious safety concern. A study of 2,600 patients at two hospitals determined that between 26-60% of patients could not understand medication directions, a standard informed consent, or basic health care materials. This mismatch between a clinician's level of communication and a patient's ability to understand can lead to medication errors and adverse outcomes.\n\nThe Institute of Medicine (2004) report found low health literacy levels negatively affects healthcare outcomes. In particular, these patients have a higher risk of hospitalization and longer hospital stays, are less likely to comply with treatment, are more likely to make errors with medication, and are more ill when they seek medical care.\n\nPay for performance systems link compensation to measures of work quality or goals. , 75 percent of all U.S. companies connect at least part of an employee's pay to measures of performance, and in healthcare, over 100 private and federal pilot programs are underway. Current methods of healthcare payment may actually reward less-safe care, since some insurance companies will not pay for new practices to reduce errors, while physicians and hospitals can bill for additional services that are needed when patients are injured by mistakes. However, early studies showed little gain in quality for the money spent, as well as evidence suggesting unintended consequences, like the avoidance of high-risk patients, when payment was linked to outcome improvements. The 2006 Institute of Medicine report \"Preventing Medication Errors\" recommended \"incentives...so that profitability of hospitals, clinics, pharmacies, insurance companies, and manufacturers (are) aligned with patient safety goals;...(to) strengthen the business case for quality and safety.\"\n\nThere is widespread international interest in health care pay-for-performance programs in a range of countries, including the United Kingdom, United States, Australia, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, and New Zealand.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the National Health Service (NHS) began an ambitious pay for performance initiative in 2004, known as the Quality and Outcomes Framework (QOF). General practitioners agreed to increases in existing income according to performance with respect to 146 quality indicators covering clinical care for 10 chronic diseases, organization of care, and patient experience. Unlike proposed quality incentive programs in the United States, funding for primary care was increased 20% over previous levels. This allowed practices to invest in extra staff and technology; 90% of general practitioners use the NHS Electronic Prescription Service, and up to 50% use electronic health records for the majority of clinical care. Early analysis showed that substantially increasing physicians' pay based on their success in meeting quality performance measures is successful. The 8,000 family practitioners included in the study earned an average of $40,000 more by collecting nearly 97% of the points available.\n\nA component of this program, known as \" exception reporting\", allows physicians to use criteria to exclude individual patients from the quality calculations that determine physician reimbursement. There was initial concern that exception reporting would allow inappropriate exclusion of patients in whom targets were missed (\"gaming\"). However, a 2008 study has shown little evidence of widespread gaming.\n\nIn the United States, Medicare has various pay-for-performance (\"P4P\") initiatives in offices, clinics and hospitals, seeking to improving quality and avoid unnecessary health care costs. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has several demonstration projects underway offering compensation for improvements:\n\n\nPay for performance programs often target patients with serious and complex illnesses; such patients commonly interact with multiple healthcare providers and facilities. However, pilot programs now underway focus on simple indicators such as improvement in lab values or use of emergency services, avoiding areas of complexity such as multiple complications or several treating specialists. A 2007 study analyzing Medicare beneficiaries' healthcare visits showed that a median of two primary care physicians and five specialists provide care for a single patient. The authors doubt that pay-for-performance systems can accurately attribute responsibility for the outcome of care for such patients. The American College of Physicians Ethics has stated concerns about using a limited set of clinical practice parameters to assess quality, \"especially if payment for good performance is grafted onto the current payment system, which does not reward robust comprehensive care...The elderly patient with multiple chronic conditions is especially vulnerable to this unwanted effect of powerful incentives.\" Present pay-for-performance systems measure good performance based on specified clinical measurements, such as glycohemoglobin for diabetic patients. Healthcare providers who are monitored by such limited criteria have a powerful incentive to \"deselect\" (dismiss or refuse to accept) patients whose outcome measures fall below the quality standard and therefore worsen the provider's assessment. Patients with low health literacy, inadequate financial resources to afford expensive medications or treatments, and ethnic groups traditionally subject to healthcare inequities may also be deselected by providers seeking improved performance measures.\n\n\n\n\nFor a health care institution, disclosing an unanticipated event should be made as soon as possible. Some health care organizations may have a policy regarding the disclosure of unanticipated events. The amount of information presented to those affected is dependent on the family's readiness and the organization's culture. The employee disclosing the event to family requires support from risk management, patient safety officers and senior leadership. Disclosures are objectively documented in the medical record.\n\nIn public surveys, a significant majority of those surveyed believe that health care providers should be required to report all serious medical errors publicly. However, reviews of the medical literature show little effect of publicly reported performance data on patient safety or the quality of care. Public reporting on the quality of individual providers or hospitals does not seem to affect selection of hospitals and individual providers. Some studies have shown that reporting performance data stimulates quality improvement activity in hospitals.\n\nEthical standards of the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), the American Medical Association (AMA) Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs, and the American College of Physicians Ethics Manual require disclosure of the most serious adverse events. However, many doctors and hospitals do not report errors under the current system because of concerns about malpractice lawsuits; this prevents collection of information needed to find and correct the conditions that lead to mistakes. , 35 US states have statutes allowing doctors and health care providers to apologize and offer expressions of regret without their words being used against them in court, and 7 states have also passed laws mandating written disclosure of adverse events and bad outcomes to patients and families. In September 2005, US Senators Clinton and Obama introduced the National Medical Error Disclosure and Compensation (MEDiC) Bill, providing physicians protection from liability and a safe environment for disclosure, as part of a program to notify and compensate patients harmed by medical errors. It is now the policy of several academic medical centers, including Johns Hopkins, University of Illinois and Stanford, to promptly disclose medical errors, offering apologies and compensation. This national initiative, hoping to restore integrity to dealings with patients, make it easier to learn from mistakes and avoid angry lawsuits, was modeled after a University of Michigan Hospital System program that has reduced the number of lawsuits against the hospital by 75% and has decreased the average litigation cost. The Veterans Health Administration requires the disclosure of all adverse events to patients, even those that are not obvious. However, these initiatives have only included hospitals that are self-insured and that employ their staffs, thus limiting the number of parties involved. Medical errors are the third leading cause of death in the US, after heart disease and cancer, according to research by Johns Hopkins University. Their study published in May 2016 concludes that more than 250,000 people die every year due to medical mix-ups. Other countries report similar results.\n\nIn April 2008, consumer, employer and labor organizations announced an agreement with major physician organizations and health insurers on principles to measure and report doctors' performance on quality and cost.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, whistleblowing is well recognised and is government sanctioned, as a way to protect patients by encouraging employees to call attention to deficient services. Health authorities are encouraged to put local policies in place to protect whistleblowers.\n\nNumerous organizations, government branches, and private companies conduct research studies to investigate the overall health of patient safety in America and across the globe. Despite the shocking and widely publicized statistics on preventable deaths due to medical errors in America's hospitals, the 2006 National Healthcare Quality Report assembled by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) had the following sobering assessment:\n\nA 2011 study of more than 1,000 patients with advanced colon cancer found that one in eight was treated with at least one drug regimen with specific recommendations against their use in the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines. The study focused on three chemotherapy regimens that were not supported by evidence from prior clinical studies or clinical practice guidelines. One treatment was rated \"insufficient data to support,\" one had been \"shown to be ineffective,\" and one was supported by \"no data, nor is there a compelling rationale.\" Many of the patients received multiple cycles of non-beneficial chemotherapy and some received two or more unproven treatments. Potential side effects for the treatments include hypertension, heightened risk of bleeding and bowel perforation.\n\nSeveral authors of the 1999 Institute of Medicine report revisited the status of their recommendations and the state of patient safety, five years after \"To Err is Human\". Discovering that patient safety had become a frequent topic for journalists, health care experts, and the public, it was harder to see overall improvements on a national level. What was noteworthy was the impact on attitudes and organizations. Few health care professionals now doubted that preventable medical injuries were a serious problem. The central concept of the report—that bad systems and not bad people lead to most errors—became established in patient safety efforts. A broad array of organizations now advance the cause of patient safety. For instance, in 2010 the principal European anaesthesiology organisations launched The Helsinki Declaration for Patient Safety in Anaesthesiology, which incorporates many of the principles described above.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41675630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41675630", "title": "Premunity", "text": "Premunity\n\nPremunity is a term used to signify progressive development of immunity in individuals exposed to an infective agent, mainly belonging to protozoa and Rickettsia, but not in viruses. After the initial infection, which generally occurs in childhood, the effect in subsequent infections is diminished. Infections thereafter may exhibit little or no symptomatology in spite of parasitemia. The next stage is resistance to infection altogether.\n\nLoss of premunity is estimated to be the cause of the rebound of malaria in 1965 in India after the dramatic success of the National Malaria Control Programme that was launched for rural India in 1953.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46838084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46838084", "title": "Prevotella bivia", "text": "Prevotella bivia\n\nPrevotella bivia is a species of bacteria in the genus Prevotella. It is gram-negative. It is one cause of pelvic inflammatory disease.\n\nOther \"Prevotella\" spp. are members of the oral and vaginal microbiota, and are recovered from anaerobic infections of the respiratory tract. These infections include aspiration pneumonia, lung abscess, pulmonary empyema, and chronic otitis media and sinusitis. Other species have been isolated from abscesses and burns in the vicinity of the mouth, bites, paronychia, urinary tract infection, brain abscesses, osteomyelitis, and bacteremia associated with upper respiratory tract infections. \"Prevotella\" spp. predominate in periodontal disease and periodontal abscesses. The genus also includes gut bacteria. \"Prevotella\" species dominate with high fiber, plant-based diets.\n\nHuman \"Prevotella\" spp have been compared genetically with species derived from different body sites of humans.\n\n"}
{"id": "48288559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48288559", "title": "Rhinopharyngitis mutilans", "text": "Rhinopharyngitis mutilans\n\nRhinopharyngitis mutilans, also known as gangosa, is a destructive ulcerative condition that usually originates about the soft palate and spreads into the hard palate, nasopharynx, and nose, resulting in mutilating cicatrices, and outward to the face, eroding intervening bone, cartilage, and soft tissues. It occurs in late stages of yaws, usually 5 to 10 years after first symptoms of infection.\n"}
{"id": "26495711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26495711", "title": "Risk panel", "text": "Risk panel\n\nA risk panel is a body that determines whether a person's mental illness causes them to be too much of a risk to society to be released from involuntary commitment. In the United States, the members of a risk panel may consist of medical officers appointed by the warden or superintendent of an institution, the U.S. Attorney General, and the United States Public Health Service. The Food and Drug Administration also has a risk panel, a 15-member advisory panel to educate consumers about the risks and benefits of drugs, devices and vaccines.\n"}
{"id": "3837225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3837225", "title": "St. Anselm's art", "text": "St. Anselm's art\n\nSt. Anselm's art is an archaic superstition, in which wounds are said to be cured by barely touching the linen wherein those wounds had been covered.\n\nMartin Delrio, in his \"Disquisitiones Magicae\", observed that some Italian soldiers who practiced this art attributed its invention to St. Anselm; but assured the reader that it was invented by Anselm de Parma, a celebrated astrologer and magician.\n"}
{"id": "46868313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46868313", "title": "Tacoma nurses strike 2014", "text": "Tacoma nurses strike 2014\n\nThe Tacoma nurses strike of 2014 was a 24-hour strike called by the Service Employees Union healthcare Local 1199NW. The strike was begun on Tuesday, November 18, 2014 at 7:00 A.M. There were 1,100 workers at two Pierce County hospital operated by CHI Franciscan Health in Tacoma participated in the strike event. The two hospitals are St. Joseph Medical Center in Tacoma and St. Clare Hospital in Lakewood. Nurse assistant, licensed practical nurses, unit secretaries, dietary workers, housekeepers, sterile processors, technical workers and other services of the two hospitals were walked off the job to participate in the strike. The strike did not include nurses and doctors. The union members were demanding CHI Franciscan Health to improve wages, improve on health care, improve on their charity care policy, and end unfair labor practices.\n\nCHI Franciscan Health is a non-profit organization based in Tacoma. The organization affiliated with national non-profit Catholic Health initiatives based in Colorado. The Franciscan Foundation was established in 1986 to receive charitable gifts and funds made on CHI Franciscan Health. According to CHI Franciscan Health, 100 percent of contribution to the foundations will goes directly to programs and accounts that were designed to help their communities and patients. Furthermore, CHI Franciscan Health promises to provide equal opportunity to their employees regarding their employees' race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, age, disability or veteran status. They are also a member of the Washington State Hospital Association.\n\nService Employees International Union Healthcare Local 1199NW, also known as Local 1199NW, is an independent organization founded in 1983. The organization was formed by a group of nurses at Group Puget Sound. They organized a union with 1199-Hospital and health Care Employees Union, also known as 1199SEIU. 1199SEIU was founded by pharmacists and drug clerks in New York 1932. It was the first and largest health workers' union in the United States. Local 1199NW is also a part of the 2.1 million members of Service Employees International Union. The Local 1199NW and other organizations that they take part in are fighting for their union members for their equality and ended the unfair labor practices in their labor force. The organization has more than 26,000 members that are nurses and healthcare workers across the Washington State.\n\nBefore the strike occurred on November 18, 2014, the union members of Union Health Care Local 1199 NW had been bargaining their contract with CHI Franciscan Health since June 2013. The union members were demanding better wages, improved health care, and ending of unfair labor practices. According to the workers of the hospitals, the hospital had cut 10% of staff members, even though the hospital had the same number of patients. The workers had to work over time, but their pay check did not increase. Moreover, the employees could not afford the health care plan that was provided by the company. In Q13 Fox, union member Jennifer Storm said, \"We have employees at the hospital that are in debt and have creditors for being cared for by CHI and so that's a big issue\". It was opposite to what CHI Franciscan Health promised them. CHI Francisco promised to provide better health care for them, but the healthcare plan cost more than what that their employees and their families could afford. They also said CHI Franciscan was cutting back their employees' benefits and funds from the two hospitals in Tacoma and sending the profit to CHI based in Denver, Colorado.\n\nFurthermore, the members of SEIU Local 1199NW showed their support to their patients and their community. They were calling for increasing investment in frontline caregiver, a charity care policy that keeps patients out of debt. The union says CHI Franciscan health made a $165 million profit in 2013, while cutting its commitment to their patient cares. Patients that could not afford to pay for their hospital bills were not being cared for by CHI Franciscan. The health care workers of the hospital felt that they should give back to their community by standing up for their clients and demanding the CHI to improve their charity care policy.\n\nHowever, their bargaining sessions with CHI Franciscan Health were not ending with the resolution that they wanted to have. A session of negotiation with CHI Franciscan on Wednesday 12, 2014 ended at 8 P.M with no resolution. It was frustrating the community and the members of Local 1199NW that their negotiation with the CHI Franciscan Health employers did not come to the agreement. Therefore, the union members had no alternative action but to go on strike and stand up for themselves, their patients, and their community. The workers notified CHI Franciscan one week before the strike day that they intended to strike. According to Taft-Hartley Act, the union members required by law to give the hospital notice to ensure patients are not affected.\n\nAs for CHI Franciscan Health, they were recognizing the raising concern of the union. According to CHI Franciscan Health, they said they was working in addressing the concern of the union, including being more clear in its communication with their patients and employees. They also said they were working in finding and giving the options to help their clients to pay their bills. The company expected the strike and was prepared for it. In Q13 Fox, Thomas, the spokesman of CHI Franciscan, said in the interview, \"We're going to deploy other staff from our other facilities to both hospitals to fill those position and other positions. Where we have needs, we will contract with other agencies to fill up those gaps\". The company made sure that the patients do not feel effected by the strike.\n\nOn Tuesday, November 18, 2014, 1,100 workers from two Pierce County hospitals operated by CHI Franciscan Health walked out the job. There were 800 nursing assistants, licensed practical nurses, unit secretaries, dietary workers, housekeepers, sterile processors, technical workers and other service workers from St. Joseph Medical Center in Tacoma, WA and another 300 workers from St. Clare Hospital in Lakewood, WA were striking. The strike, however, did not include doctors and nurses. The strike began at 7:00 A.M and would last 24 hours. The strike called by Service Employees International Union Healthcare Local 1199NW. The members of SEIU Local 1199NW were holding signs and protesting in front of the two hospitals.\n\nAfter months of negotiating and calling for CHI Franciscan to invest in Tacoma patient and a public hearing, the workers at ST. Joseph and St. Clare hospitals, including 1,100 workers that went on strike on November 18, 2014, signed their new contract at 8 P.M Tuesday, January 27, 2015 with the company. The new contract included: improved staffing and wage and benefit improvement. The union was succeeding in stopping CHI Franciscan corporation from taking health money from Pierce County. The resulted of the new agreement are strengthen labor management partnership in determining staffing, an increased investment in worker's retirement, wage increases, and a management commitment to transparency in the matter of employees' qualification for charity care financial assistance to meet their families' healthcare needs. For the workers, their new contract means that they can worry less about supporting their families. Also, the workers are now can concentration on take care their patients.\n\n"}
{"id": "2177480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2177480", "title": "The g Factor: The Science of Mental Ability", "text": "The g Factor: The Science of Mental Ability\n\nThe g Factor: The Science of Mental Ability is a 1998 book by psychologist Arthur Jensen. The book is about the topic of the general factor of human mental ability, or \"g\".\n\nThe book traces the origins of the idea of individual differences in general mental ability to 19th century researchers Herbert Spencer and Francis Galton. Charles Spearman is credited for inventing factor analysis in the early 20th century, which enabled statistical testing of the hypothesis that general mental ability is required in all mental efforts. Spearman gave the name \"g\" to the common factor underlying all mental tasks. He suggested that \"g\" reflected individual differences in \"mental energy\", and hoped that future research would uncover the biological basis of this energy. The book argues that because it is difficult to arrive at a consensual scientific definition of the term \"intelligence\", scientists should dispense with the term and focus on specific abilities and their covariances. It also argues that mental abilities are best conceptualized as a three-level hierarchy, with a large number of narrow abilities at the base, a relatively small number of broad factors at the intermediate level, and a single general factor, \"g\", at the apex.\n\nThe \"g\" factor can be derived from a correlation matrix of mental ability tests by many different methods of factor analysis. A \"g\" factor always emerges provided that the test battery is sufficiently large and diverse. The only exception is when one uses orthogonal rotation which precludes the appearance of a \"g\" factor. Jensen argues that orthogonal rotation is not appropriate for substantially positively correlated variables such as mental abilities. The \"g\" factor has been found to be largely invariant across different factor analytic methods and in different racial and cultural groups. Jensen argues that \"g\" is normally distributed in any population. He also contends that \"g\" cannot be described in terms of the information content or item characteristics of tests, and likens it to a computer's CPU. Jensen hypothesizes that \"g\" is fundamentally about the speed or efficiency of the neural processes related to mental abilities.\n\nThe book reviews studies on biological correlates of \"g\", and notes that they are numerous, including brain size, latency and amplitude of evoked brain potentials, rate of brain glucose metabolism, and general health. The book puts the broad-sense heritability of \"g\" at .40 to .50 in children, at .60 to .70 in adolescents and young adults, and at nearly .80 in older adults. It argues that shared family influences on \"g\" are substantial in childhood, but that in adults the environmental sources of variance are almost exclusively of the within-family kind. The book suggests that the main environmental influence on \"g\" is developmental \"noise\", consisting of more or less random physical events affecting the neurophysiological substrate of mental growth. It reviews the evidence that elementary cognitive tasks (ECTs) are correlated with \"g\". It argues that the ECT research supports the notion that \"g\" is related to the speed and efficiency of neural processes.\n\nThe book argues that the \"g\" factor shows considerable practical validity. It is related to a large number of economically, educationally, and socially valued attributes. It is a particularly good predictor of academic and job-related outcomes. It stresses the difference between \"g\" and what it calls \"vehicles\" of \"g\". Changes in test scores do not necessarily represent changes in the underlying construct, viz., \"g\". Practice effects on test scores appear to be unrelated to \"g\". An authentic change in \"g\" happens when the change shows broad generalizability to a wide variety of cognitive tasks. Intensive psychological interventions beginning in infancy have generally failed to produce lasting effects on \"g\". To what extent the Flynn effect represents a change in \"g\" is unknown.\n\nMainly due to the relation between differences in \"g\" and important educational, economic, and social differences, there has long been interest in group differences in \"g\" in the United States. The most extensively researched is the gap between white and black Americans. According to the book, whites outscore blacks in the US by about 1.2 standard deviations, or 18 IQ points, on average. Blacks in sub-Saharan Africa score, on average, about two standard deviations below the white mean. The black-white gap in the US is not due to test bias. Cognitive tests have the same reliability and validity for all American-born, English-speaking groups. The magnitude of the black-white gap in the US is best predicted by the test's \"g\" loading, implying that the gap is mainly due to a difference in \"g\". Jensen argues that the black-white gap has a biological component. The book contends that the causes of differences in \"g\" between blacks and whites consist of the same environmental and genetic differences and in approximately the same magnitudes as within-population differences.\n\nThe book argues that the \"g\" factor is important because it is a major node in a complex network of educationally, socially and economically important variables (\"the \"g\" nexus\"). The book argues that a person's level of \"g\" is a threshold variable, and that above a certain threshold other, non-\"g\" abilities and talents, including personality differences, are critical for educational and vocational success. The book anticipated that after 1998, subsequent research on \"g\" would have to extend into two directions, \"horizontal\" and \"vertical\": horizontal research to identify new variables in the \"g\" nexus, and vertical research to uncover the origins of \"g\" in terms of evolutionary biology and neurophysiology.\n\n\"The g Factor\" was reviewed favorably by Canadian psychologist J. Philippe Rushton, who called it \"an awesome and monumental exposition of the case for the reality of g.\" Robert Sternberg was more critical in his review, writing that \"there is a great deal of evidence of various kinds that the general factor does not do what Jensen claims.\" He also acknowledged that \"Even those who disagree with most of what Arthur Jensen says in The g Factor, such as myself, have to admire the sheer dedication, pertinacity, and tireless scholarship that must have gone into a work of this scope.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25422522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25422522", "title": "Tobacco in the United States", "text": "Tobacco in the United States\n\nTobacco has a long history in the United States.\n\nTobacco distribution is measured in the United States using the term, \"tobacco outlet density.\" An estimated 36.5 million people, or 15.1% of all adults (aged 18 years or older), in the United States smoked cigarettes in 2015. By state, in 2015, smoking prevalence ranged from between 9.1% and 12.8% in Utah to between 23.7% and 27.4% in West Virginia. By region, in 2015, smoking prevalence was highest in the Midwest (18.7%) and South (15.3%) and lowest in the West (12.4%). Men tend to smoke more than women. In 2015, 16.7% of men smoked compared to 13.6% of women. In 2009 46.6 million, or 20.6 percent of adults 18 and older were current smokers.\n\nCigarette smoking is the leading cause of preventable death in the United States, accounting for approximately 443,000 deaths, or 1 of every 5 deaths, in the United States each year. Cigarette smoking alone has cost the United States $96 billion in direct medical expenses and $97 billion in lost productivity per year or an average of $4,260 per adult smoker.\n\nTobacco is a natural plant once classified as an herb with healing properties among the Indian Doctors in The United States of America. It became one of the very first commodities in world trade and one of the first bartering systems in The United States of America.\n\nCommercial tobacco production dates back to the 17th century when the first commercial crop was planted. The industry originated in the production of tobacco for pipes and snuff. Different war efforts in the world created a shift in demand and production of tobacco in the world and the American colonies. With the advent of the American Revolution trade with the colonies was interrupted which shifted trade to other countries in the world. During this shift there was an increase in demand for tobacco in the United States, where the demand for tobacco in the form of cigars and chewing tobacco increased. Other wars, such as the War of 1812 would introduce the Andalusian cigarette to the rest of Europe. This, accompanied with the American Civil War changed the production of tobacco in America to the manufactured cigarette.\n\nIn 1612, John Rolfe arrived in Jamestown to find the colonists there struggling and starving. He had brought with him a new species of tobacco known as nicotiana tabacum. This species was preferable to the native nicotiana rustica as it was much smoother. It is unknown where John Rolfe got the seeds for this new species of tobacco, as the sale of the seeds to a non-Spaniard was punishable by death. However, this new nicotiana tabacum proved to be very popular in England and the first shipment was sent in 1614. By 1639, 750 tons of tobacco had been shipped to England.\n\nIn the period of 1619 to 1629, the average tobacco farmer was expected to produce 712 pounds of tobacco in a year. By the period of 1680 to 1699, the output per worker was 1,710 pounds of tobacco in a year. These increases in productivity were brought about primarily from relocation and better farming techniques. While early tobacco cultivation techniques were relatively rudimentary, colonial farmers quickly developed more efficient techniques. Tobacco will wear out the soil in just a few years and this necessitated farmers to relocate from coastal areas up rivers in the Chesapeake Bay area. Production was further increased by the use of slave labor on larger farms. On the frontier, hired help would both farm the tobacco and protect farms from Indian raids.\n\nIn 1621, King James prohibited the production of tobacco in England, limiting its growth to the colonies in America. While it would take many years for this to take effect, it influenced other policies. In reaction to this, the colonies would pass legislation like the Tobacco Inspection Act of 1730 in Virginia as a way to control the production of tobacco and raise its price. Legislation was also passed as a way of ensuring that low-quality trash tobacco was not being shipped or used for the payment of taxes. This series of legislation on both sides of the Atlantic to exert control over the tobacco industry would continue until the American Revolutionary War.\n\nDue to the Revolutionary War, Southern exports dropped by 39% from the upper South and almost 50% from the lower South. Lack of domestic market growth exasperated these effects and a stagnated tobacco industry failed to fully recover as cotton became the main cash crop of the south going forward.\n\nTobacco played a huge role in the development of the early Chesapeake Colonies. With the early tobacco boom in Virginia and the expansion of trade with England, the value of tobacco soared and provided an incentive for a large influx of colonists. In Virginia, the rough climate made it difficult for the colonists to produce crops that were necessary for survival. Due to this difficulty, the colonists lacked a source of income and food. The colonists of Virginia began to grow tobacco. Tobacco brought the colonists a large source of revenue that was used to pay taxes and fines, purchase slaves, and to purchase manufactured goods from England. As the colonies grew, so did their production of tobacco. Slaves and indentured servants were brought into the colonies to participate in tobacco farming. It has been said that some colonies would have continued to fail had it not been for the production of tobacco. Tobacco provided the early colonies with an opportunity for expansion and economic success.\n\nAs early as 1621, only 14 years after the establishment of a colony in Virginia and just 9 years after John Rolfe discovered the economic potential of tobacco in America, British merchants were on the march in an attempt to control the tobacco trade. A measure was introduced into the British Parliament in 1621 with two major components: a restriction on tobacco importation from anywhere with the exception of Virginia and the British West Indies and an edict that tobacco was not to be grown and cultivated anywhere else within England. The objective of the merchants was to monopolize and control all means of tobacco distribution within Europe and throughout the world. By doing so it was possible to secure a stable return on investment for the American Colonies and profit tremendously within Europe. The British merchants influenced economies using the power of the nation-state to influence and protect business interests. In exchange, taxes were levied in order to fund political interests. The bill that the merchants put forward in 1621 to Parliament was a classic example of the power and influence of mercantilism.\n\nThe measure passed the House of Commons although it was defeated in the House of Lords. Despite this defeat the measure eventually was pushed through by proclamation from King James. Ironically King James had very strong opinions against the use of tobacco, pointing to the ill health effects and social impact of those that used tobacco Despite these grievances the King was then able to capture import duties on tobacco and in exchange monopoly power was granted to the merchants.\n\nThe measures also prevented any foreign ships from carrying colonial tobacco. This monopolization became extremely profitable and flourished during the 1600s. The economy of Virginia was extremely dependent on the tobacco trade. So much so that subtle shifts in demand and prices dramatically affected the Virginian economy as a whole. This led to several booms and busts related to tobacco. The price of tobacco dropped from 6.50 pennies per pound in the 1620s down to as low as .80 pennies per pound in the 1690s. This downward trending triggered a whole series of crop controls and government sponsored price manipulations throughout the 1600s to try to stabilize pricing, but to no avail.\n\nBy the mid 1620s tobacco became the most common commodity for bartering due to the increasing scarcity of gold and silver and the decreasing value of wampum from forgery and overproduction. In order to help with accounting and standardizing trade, colonial government officials would rate tobacco and compare its weight into values of pounds, shillings, and pence. The popularity of American tobacco increased dramatically in the colonial period eventually leading to English goods being traded equally with tobacco. Because England's climate did not allow for the same quality of tobacco as that grown in America, the colonists did not have to worry about scarcity of tobacco. This eventually led to tobacco being the main form of trade with England.\n\nImports of tobacco into England increased from 60,000 pounds in 1622 to 500,000 pounds in 1628, and to 1,500,000 pounds in 1639. Such dramatic growth in demand for tobacco eventually led to overproduction of the commodity, and in turn extreme devaluation of tobacco. To compensate for the loss of value, farmers would add dirt and leaves to increase the weight, but lowering the quality. From the 1640s to the 1690s the value of tobacco would be highly unstable, government officials would help stabilize tobacco by reducing the amount of tobacco produced, standardizing the size of a tobacco hogshead, and prohibiting shipments of bulk tobacco. Eventually the tobacco currency would stabilize in the early 1700s but would be short lived as farmers started cutting back on growing tobacco. In the 1730s tobacco crops were being replaced with food crops as the colonies moved closer to revolution with England.\n\nAccording to the research, every 100 U.S adults there are more than 15 at the age of 18 or older smoked cigarettes in 2016. In other words, there are about 37.8 million cases in the United State that smoking cigarettes. This leads to serious consequence, the number of Americans live with a smoking and disease smoking-related disease is huge which more than 16 million people. However, the number of people were smoking in 2016 has decreased to 15.5 % which is 5.4% different from 2005. This also reflects the increase of smokers who had quit. The proportion of male smokers is more than women. At every 100 adults, men nearly got 4 more cases than women.\n\nOn February 4, 2009, the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009 was signed into law, which raised the federal tax rate for cigarettes on April 1, 2009 from $0.39 per pack to $1.01 per pack.\n\n\n443,000 Americans die of smoking or exposure to secondhand smoke each year. For every smoking-related death, another 20 people suffer with a smoking-related disease. (2011)\n\nCalifornia's adult smoking rate has dropped nearly 50% since the state began the nation's longest-running tobacco control program in 1988. California saved $86 billion in health care costs by spending $1.8 billion on tobacco control, a 50:1 return on investment over its first 15 years of funding its tobacco control program.\n\nSome of the notable tobacco companies in the US are:\n\nThere has been intensive lobbying in the US to portray smoking as a harmless activity. \"The Insider\" is a 1999 feature film about the production of a news segment exposing Big Tobacco.\n\nLobbyists include:\n\nA half million children work in the fields of America picking food in 2012. In eastern North Carolina, children have been interviewed as young as fourteen who worked harvesting tobacco, and recent news reports describe children as young as nine and ten doing such work. Federal law provides no minimum age for work on small farms with parental permission, and children ages twelve and up may work for hire on any size farm for unlimited periods outside school hours. According to Human Rights Watch, farm-work is the most hazardous occupation open to children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28056380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28056380", "title": "Walkit.com", "text": "Walkit.com\n\nWalkit.com is an urban walking route planner.\n\nThe site launched with coverage of central London in 2006. The cities of Edinburgh and Birmingham were then added within the first year. The service now also covers Aberdeen, Aylesbury, Bolton, Bristol, Bury St Edmunds, Cambridge, Coventry, Derby, Glasgow, High Wycombe, Ipswich, Leeds, Lowestoft, Manchester, Middlesbrough, Newcastle and Gateshead, Norwich, Nottingham, Oldham, Portsmouth, Salford, Sheffield, Stockport, Sunderland, Trafford and Wigan, with an ongoing programme of launches in new cities and towns.\n\nwalkit.com is independently owned and managed by a team of staff based in Birmingham, London and Norfolk.\n\nThe site generates both A to B and circular routes, providing printable written directions and maps. As walkit.com is specifically tailored to pedestrians, it includes data that is omitted from many traditional vehicle-based journey planners, such as routes across parks, beside rivers and canals and along footpaths and alleyways. There is also the option to select a 'less busy' route, which avoids main roads where possible. Some cities also have additional features, such as step-free routes, hill profiles, and air-pollution aware routes.\n\nwalkit.com also hosts a blog page, an events page highlighting walking related events in its featured cities, and information pages on walking for health, walking to work, walking to school and going green.\n\nIn 2010, personalised walkit accounts were launched in the form of mywalkit (free) and mywalkit+ (£1.50 per month/£15.00 annually). Subscribers to the mywalkit account are able to personalise their walking speed in order to provide more accurate walking statistics. The mywalkit+ account allows subscribers to keep a log of their previous walks, as well as setting three different personalised speeds, and keep a record of their carbon savings.\n\nwalkit.com also allows users to create 'link to us' widgets for their own sites, in order to promote walking. Widgets can be specifically created for directions to or from particular destinations, between two specific locations, or for circular walks from a predefined point.\n\nwalkit.com has both a Facebook fan page and group and an active Twitter account.\n\nWalkit.com has been both shortlisted for and received a number of awards since its creation.\n\nThese include one of \"The Guardian's 100 top sites for 2009\" , one of \"The Telegraph's 101 most useful websites of 2008\" and one of \"Time Out's 50 Best London Websites\" in 2008 .\n\nwalkit.com was named the winner of the \"Most Innovative Transport Project\" at the National Transport Awards in 2008 , and shortlisted for both the \"Ethical Business of the Year\" by the Observer Ethical awards 2008 , and the \"Media Guardian Innovation Awards\" in 2008 .\n"}
{"id": "38840679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38840679", "title": "Water chlorination", "text": "Water chlorination\n\nWater chlorination is the process of adding chlorine or chlorine compounds such as sodium hypochlorite to water. This method is used to kill certain bacteria and other microbes in tap water as chlorine is highly toxic. In particular, chlorination is used to prevent the spread of waterborne diseases such as cholera, dysentery, and typhoid.\n\nIn a paper published in 1894, it was formally proposed to add chlorine to water to render it \"germ-free\". Two other authorities endorsed this proposal and published it in many other papers in 1895. Early attempts at implementing water chlorination at a water treatment plant were made in 1893 in Hamburg, Germany. In 1897 the town of Maidstone, England was the first to have its entire water supply treated with chlorine.\n\nPermanent water chlorination began in 1905, when a faulty slow sand filter and a contaminated water supply caused a serious typhoid fever epidemic in Lincoln, England. Dr. Alexander Cruickshank Houston used chlorination of the water to stop the epidemic. His installation fed a concentrated solution of so-called \"chloride of lime\" to the water being treated. This was not simply modern calcium chloride, but contained chlorine gas dissolved in lime-water (dilute calcium hydroxide) to form calcium hypochlorite (chlorinated lime). The chlorination of the water supply helped stop the epidemic and as a precaution, the chlorination was continued until 1911 when a new water supply was instituted.\nThe first continuous use of chlorine in the United States for disinfection took place in 1908 at Boonton Reservoir (on the Rockaway River), which served as the supply for Jersey City, New Jersey. Chlorination was achieved by controlled additions of dilute solutions of chloride of lime (calcium hypochlorite) at doses of 0.2 to 0.35 ppm. The treatment process was conceived by Dr. John L. Leal, and the chlorination plant was designed by George Warren Fuller. Over the next few years, chlorine disinfection using chloride of lime (calcium hypochlorite) were rapidly installed in drinking water systems around the world.\n\nThe technique of purification of drinking water by use of compressed liquefied chlorine gas was developed by a British officer in the Indian Medical Service, Vincent B. Nesfield, in 1903. According to his own account, \"It occurred to me that chlorine gas might be found satisfactory ... if suitable means could be found for using it... The next important question was how to render the gas portable. This might be accomplished in two ways: By liquefying it, and storing it in lead-lined iron vessels, having a jet with a very fine capillary canal, and fitted with a tap or a screw cap. The tap is turned on, and the cylinder placed in the amount of water required. The chlorine bubbles out, and in ten to fifteen minutes the water is absolutely safe. This method would be of use on a large scale, as for service water carts.\"\n\nMajor Carl Rogers Darnall, Professor of Chemistry at the Army Medical School, gave the first practical demonstration of this in 1910. This work became the basis for present day systems of municipal water \"purification\". Shortly after Darnall's demonstration, Major William J. L. Lyster of the Army Medical Department used a solution of calcium hypochlorite in a linen bag to treat water. \n\nFor many decades, Lyster's method remained the standard for U.S. ground forces in the field and in camps, implemented in the form of the familiar Lyster Bag (also spelled Lister Bag). The canvas \"bag, water, sterilizing\" was a common component of field kitchens, issued one per 100 persons, of a standard 36-gallon capacity that hung from an often-improvised tripod in the field. In use from World War I through the Vietnam War, it has been replaced by reverse osmosis systems that produce potable water by pressure straining local water through microscopic-level filters: the Reverse Osmosis Water Purification Unit (1980) and the Tactical Water Purification System (2007) for large-scale production, and the Light Water Purifier unit for smaller-scale needs that includes ultrafiltration technology to produce potable water from any source and uses automated backwash cycles every 15 minutes to simplify cleaning operations.\n\nChlorine gas was first used on a continuing basis to disinfect the water supply at the Belmont filter plant, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania by using a machine invented by Charles Frederick Wallace who dubbed it the Chlorinator. It was manufactured by the Wallace & Tiernan company beginning in 1913. By 1941, disinfection of U.S. drinking water by chlorine gas had largely replaced the use of chloride of lime.\n\nChlorination can also be practiced using sodium hypochlorite or various other chemicals.\n\nAs a halogen, chlorine is a highly efficient disinfectant, and is added to public water supplies to kill disease-causing pathogens, such as bacteria, viruses, and protozoans, that commonly grow in water supply reservoirs, on the walls of water mains and in storage tanks. The microscopic agents of many diseases such as cholera, typhoid fever, and dysentery killed countless people annually before disinfection methods were employed routinely.\n\nChlorine is manufactured from salt by electrolysis or other methods. It is a gas at atmospheric pressures but liquefies under pressure. The liquefied gas is transported and used as such.\n\nAs a strong oxidizing agent, chlorine kills via the oxidation of organic molecules. Chlorine and hydrolysis product hypochlorous acid are neutrally charged and therefore easily penetrate the negatively charged surface of pathogens. It is able to disintegrate the lipids that compose the cell wall and react with intracellular enzymes and proteins, making them nonfunctional. Microorganisms then either die or are no longer able to multiply.\n\nWhen dissolved in water, chlorine converts to an equilibrium mixture of chlorine, hypochlorous acid (HOCl), and hydrochloric acid (HCl):\n\nIn acidic solution, the major species are and HOCl, whereas in alkaline solution, effectively only ClO (hypochlorite ion) is present. Very small concentrations of ClO, ClO, ClO are also found.\n\nShock chlorination is a process used in many swimming pools, water wells, springs, and other water sources to reduce the bacterial and algal residue in the water. Shock chlorination is performed by mixing a large amount of hypochlorite into the water. The hypochlorite can be in the form of a powder or a liquid such as chlorine bleach (solution of sodium hypochlorite or calcium hypochlorite in water). Water that is being shock chlorinated should not be swum in or drunk until the sodium hypochlorite count in the water goes down to three parts per million (PPM) or until the calcium hypochlorite count goes down to 0.2 to 0.35 PPM.\n\nDisinfection by chlorination can be problematic, in some circumstances. Chlorine can react with naturally occurring organic compounds found in the water supply to produce compounds known as disinfection by-products (DBPs). The most common DBPs are trihalomethanes (THMs) and haloacetic acids (HAAs). Trihalomethanes are the main disinfectant by-products created from chlorination with two different types, bromoform and dibromochloromethane, which are mainly responsible for health hazards. Their effects depend strictly on the duration of their exposure to the chemicals and the amount ingested into the body. In high doses, bromoform mainly slows down regular brain activity, which is manifested by symptoms such as sleepiness or sedation. Chronic exposure of both bromoform and dibromochloromethane can cause liver and kidney cancer, as well as heart disease, unconsciousness, or death in high doses. Due to the potential carcinogenicity of these compounds, drinking water regulations across the developed world require regular monitoring of the concentration of these compounds in the distribution systems of municipal water systems. The World Health Organization has stated that \"the risks to health from these by-products are extremely small in comparison with the risks associated with inadequate disinfection\".\n\nThere are also other concerns regarding chlorine, including its volatile nature which causes it to disappear too quickly from the water system, and organoleptic concerns such as taste and odor.\n\nA dechlorinator is a chemical additive that removes chlorine or chloramine from water. Where tap water is chlorinated, it should be dechlorinated before use in an aquarium, since chlorine can harm aquatic life in the same way it kills micro-organisms. Chlorine will kill fish, and cause damage to an aquarium's biological filter. Chemicals that serve this function are reducing agents which reduce chlorine species to chloride, which is less harmful to fish. \n\nSome compounds employed in commercial dechlorinators are: sodium thiosulfate, Sodium hydroxymethanesulfonate (used in AmQuel), and Sodium hydroxymethane sulfinic acid (used in Marineland Bio-safe).\n\nThe use of chlorine dioxide as an alternative to chlorine is now widespread in both municipal and industrial applications. It eliminates potential of harmful DBPs and is a highly efficient disinfectant.\n\nOzonation is used by many European countries and also in a few municipalities in the United States and Canada. This alternative is more cost effective but energy intensive. It involves ozone being bubbled through the water, breaking down all parasites, bacteria, and all other harmful organic substances. However, this method leaves no residual ozone to control contamination of the water after the process has been completed.\n\nThe advantage of chlorine in comparison to ozone is that the residual persists in the water for an extended period of time. This feature allows the chlorine to travel through the water supply system, effectively controlling pathogenic backflow contamination. In a large system this may not be adequate, and so chlorine levels may be boosted at points in the distribution system, or chloramine may be used, which remains in the water for longer before reacting or dissipating.\n\nChloramination is also becoming increasingly common. Disinfection with chloramine produces less undesirable byproducts than chlorine (gas or hypochlorite). Chloramine has a longer half-life in the distribution system, and maintains effective protection against pathogens. Chloramines persist in the distribution because of their lower redox potential in comparison to free chlorine. Chloramine is formed by adding ammonia and chlorine into drinking water to form monochloramine and/or dichloramine. Whereas \"Helicobacter pylori\" can be many times more resistant to chlorine than \"Escherichia coli\", both organisms are about equally susceptible to the disinfecting effect of chloramine.\n\nChlorine in water is over three times more effective as a disinfectant against \"Escherichia coli\" than an equivalent concentration of bromine, and over six times more effective than an equivalent concentration of iodine.\n\nWater treated by filtration and home filtration may not need further disinfection; a very high proportion of pathogens are removed by materials in the filter bed. Filtered water must be used soon after it is filtered, as the low amount of remaining microbes may proliferate over time. In general, these home filters remove over 90% of the chlorine available to a glass of treated water. These filters must be periodically replaced otherwise the bacterial content of the water may actually increase due to the growth of bacteria within the filter unit.\n\nUV disinfection is gaining popularity. UV treatment leaves minimal residue in the water. In water UV generates ozone in situ and thus has many of the advantages of ozone disinfection. However, ultraviolet germicidal irradiation alone (as well as chlorination alone) will not remove toxins from bacteria, pesticides, heavy metals, etc. from water.\n\nLike UV, ionizing radiation (X-rays, gamma rays, and electron beams) has been used to sterilize water.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14597402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14597402", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Spain", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Spain\n\nWater supply and sanitation in Spain is characterized by universal access and generally good service quality, while tariffs are among the lowest in the EU. Almost half of the population is served by private or mixed private-public water companies, which operate under concession contracts with municipalities. The largest of the private water companies, with a market share of about 50% of the private concessions, is Aguas de Barcelona (Agbar). However, the large cities are all served by public companies except Barcelona and Valencia. The largest public company is Canal de Isabel II, which serves the metropolitan area of Madrid.\n\nDroughts occasionally affect water supply in Southern Spain, which has considered seawater desalination to meet its water needs.\n\nAccess to water supply and sanitation in Spain is universal. 98% of the urban population and 93% of the rural population is connected to sewers, while the remainder is served by on-site sanitation systems such as septic tanks.\n\n99.5% of the public tap water in Spain is considered potable (safe to drink) according to Ministerio de Sanidad that is responsible for the quality of the water. Every local provider has to report certified lab tests every 6 months resulting in over 40 million reports per year available from Sinac. Each water company is also obliged to provide a test report about the quality of the water when requested.\n\nIn 2009, the consumer organization OCU analyzed the presence of six pollutants in drinking water in 64 cities and towns. The pollutants were trihalomethane, volatile organic compounds, pesticides, nitrate, boron and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon. The analysis showed that drinking water had improved since the last report by OCU on drinking water in 2006. Problems were encountered only in Ourense (trihalomethane) and in Girona (pesticides).\n\nOCU carried out another analysis in 2014 of 62 municipalities and cities and found that 7 had issues with contamination whereof one was major (Cáceres).\n\nConcerning wastewater treatment, in 2005 77% of municipal wastewater was treated in accordance with standards set by the EU.\n\nSouthern Spain regularly suffers from severe droughts. The National Hydrological Plan (PHN by its Spanish acronym, from \"Plan Hidrológico Nacional\") foresaw substantial investments into the transfer of surface water from the Ebro River south to cities on the Mediterranean coast. However, in 2004, these plans have been shelved by the newly elected Spanish government in favor of seawater desalination, adding to 700 existing desalination plants.\n\nData about water sources and use vary according to the source of information. According to the utility association ASOAGA, about 74% of municipal water supply originates in surface water, only 19% in groundwater,and 7% in springs and desalination. However, according to a 2007 survey by the National Statistical Institute, 63% of the water distributed by utilities came from surface water, 33% from groundwater, and 4% from other sources such as desalination. According to the utility association ASOAGA, water use is about 280 liter per capita and day (l/c/d). This figure may include non-revenue water. A survey by the International Water Association (IWA) in four Spanish cities gives water use as between 169 l/c/d in Valencia and 192 l/c/d in Valencia, including industrial water use. These usage levels are similar to the average of OECD countries. The National Statistical Institute gives an average water consumption of 157 l/c/d, varying between 125 l/c/d in the Basque country to 189 l/c/d in Cantabria.\n\nAbout 20% of treated wastewater in Spain is being reused (this is also called reclaimed water), primarily for irrigation and landscaping.\n\nA cornerstone of the legal framework for water supply and sanitation is the 1985 Water Law (Ley de Aguas). Policy and regulation functions for water supply and sanitation are shared among various Ministries. For example, the Ministry of Environment is in charge of water resources management and the Ministry of Health is in charge of drinking water quality monitoring.\n\nBasin Agencies (Confederaciones de Cuencas Hidrográficas) are in charge of planning, constructing and operating major water infrastructure such as dams; elaborating basin plans; setting water quality targets, as well as monitoring and enforcing them; granting permits to use water, as well as inspecting water facilities for which permits were granted; undertaking hydrological studies; and to provide advisory services to other entities at their request. Basin Agencies are headed by a President who is nominated by the Cabinet at the proposal of the Minister of Environment. Each agency has a Board, a user assembly and a council to ensure broad participation by various stakeholders in its decision-making process, both in planning and operations. There are a total of 15 Basin Agencies in Spain for rivers that flow through more than one autonomous community. If a river runs entirely within the territory of an autonomous community the water administration of the respective autonomous community, instead of one of the basin agencies, is in charge of managing its water resources. This is the case in Galicia, Catalonia, the Balearic Islands, the Canary Islands, the Basque country and Andalusia.\n\nWhile basin agencies do not provide water and sanitation services, they play an important role in determining the framework for the provision of such services.\n\nService provision is the responsibility of more than 8,000 municipalities. Municipalities can provide services directly or through a municipal public company (54% of market share), or through concessions to a mixed public-private company (13%) or a private company (33%). In some cities water supply is the responsibility of a company, while sanitation services are provided directly by the municipality. This is the case, for example, in Barcelona.\n\nThe main water service provider in Spain is Aguas de Barcelona (Agbar), a private company that provides water services to about 13 million people in more than 1,000 localities under concession contracts. Sewer services are provided to 8.25 million people in 365 localities, and wastewater treatment is carried out for 9.3 million people in 445 localities. Its main competitor is Aqualia. The largest public water company is Canal Isabel II that serves the metropolitan area of Madrid. The government of the Madrid region plans to sell 49% of the shares of the company to private investors since 2008, but has not done so until early 2015.\n\nIn February 2013 the director of Agbar’s Aquagest concession in Santiago de Compostela was jailed because of alleged bribes to municipal officials to ensure the renewal of his firm's contract. In June 2014 25 prominent Valencian politicians and administrators were charged with \"fraudulently obtaining €23 million between 2004 and 2009 by inflating the cost of treating sewage sludge from metropolitan Valencia’s wastewater treatment plant\", operated at the time by the public company EMARSA, a subsidiary of the regional wastewater company EMARSA.\n\nAs of 2016 there were numerous ongoing investigations into alleged corruption in the awarding of municipal water contracts. In January 2016 top executives of the Spanish water companies Acciona and FCC were arrested amid these investigations. Furthermore, the Director General and other senior employees of the government water procurement agency Acuamed were arrested. Acuamed, an agency under the supervision of the Ministry of Environment, is in charge of major infrastructure programs financed by the central government, including desalination plants.\n\nIt is common practice in Spain that municipalities legally request upfront payments (canon) when awarding water concessions. These funds are not used for water infrastructure, but to generate revenue for the municipality. Also, not all contracts are awarded through competitive bidding. For example, in 2012 the Barcelona metropolitan authority awarded a 35-year concession worth an estimated €330 million to Agbar without a competitive tender. Roque Gistau, president of the Spanish water and sanitation association (AEAS), says that the current system to award contracts must be reformed. He calls for the abolishment of the Canon because it distorts the market. He also calls for the establishment of a water regulator such as the ones existing in England and Portugal.\n\nSpain was one of the first countries in the world to create river basin agencies through a Royal Decree-Law published in 1926. The first river basin agencies (\"Confederaciones Hidrográficas\") were created in the Ebro basin and in the Segura basin in 1926, followed by the Guadalquivir in 1927 and the Eastern Pyrenees in 1929. Until 1961 basin agencies were created in the entire country.\n\nThe management of water resources in Spain during much of the 20th century has been characterized by strong state intervention. This intervention focused on the construction of hydraulic works in an effort to increase water available for irrigation (supply policy) and hydropower generation, was considered the engine of Spanish economic development policy. The Plans of Hydraulic Works of 1902 and 1933, financed for the most part by the state, are an example of this type of policy. Until 1955 a growth rate of about 4 dams per year was maintained, going from about 60 dams existing at the beginning of the century up to about 270 in 1950. From that year the pace accelerated considerably, reaching an average of 20 annual dams, until reaching the infrastructure existing today.\n\nThe Law of Water of 1866 represents the first attempt to regulate Spanish territorial waters specifically, although it did not come into force due to the revolutionary period that gave rise to the first republic. Its basic principles, however, are the basis largely of the Law of 1879, including the public domain of all natural streams, river banks and river banks. Ground waters, which belong to the owner of the land where they were found, were not included. This provision continued in force until its retroactive amendment by the 1985 Law, and is one of the causes of the current situation of lack of administrative control of groundwater sources.\n\nThe Law of 1879, includes the right to private use of water linked to an administrative concession. The Law regulates in a very precise way both the procedure and the general rules on the concession of public waters as well as specific provisions for the different uses (supply to populations, irrigations, industrial establishments, etc.). In the case of irrigation, in addition, the right to use water is linked to that of land ownership. Likewise, the Law establishes the community of irrigators, an institution that is self-governing and has sanctioning power. The subsequent evolution of water towards multipurpose uses and the concurrence of several users over the same water body have expanded the figure of the irrigation community to the current user communities.\n\nThe Regulation of the Law of 1879 never came into practice and this normative element was replaced by several provisions of lower rank that tried to solve the numerous problems that were arising in the application of the Law due both to the wide field covered by this law, the prolonged validity that faced it with situations for which it were not effective.\n\nThe most important of the normative novelties is the one that refers to the creation, or rather the institutionalization of an existing reality, of the basin organisms, with the creation of the first hydrographic confederation in 1926 as the overarching organ of management of the water to Level of basin. The functions of basin organizations have been alternated between the specific ones of development and more general of water management during the last century.\n\nWilliam Blomquist, in a study of hydrographic confederations in 2005, shows that the formal structure of these organizations traditionally gives more weight to user groups for irrigation, leaving public or private organizations representing urban centers or environmental issues in a background. Similarly, some confederations continue to emphasize their advocacy tasks while adapting to fully manage, in a broad sense, their water resources.\n\nA survey by the National Statistical Institute estimates the avereage level of non-revenue water at 24% 2007, including real (physical) losses of 16% and apparent losses due to undermetering and other factors of 8%.\n\nTariff level. A survey commissioned by the utility association AEAS in 2009 showed that the average tariff for water supply and sanitation was Euro 1.50/m3. On average, industrial users paid Euro 1.81/m3 and residential users Euro 1.40/m3. This is one of the lowest water tariffs in the EU. There are large variations between cities and regions. The province with the highest average tariff are the Balearic Islands (Euro 2.65/m3) and the region with the lowest is Lugo (Euro 0.61/m3). The study commissioned by AEAS wants to shed light on the actual cost of water and make citizens aware of the need to pay the full costs of this service. According to a survey carried out in 2009 by the Spanish consumer organization OCU the water bill was slightly higher than in the ANEAS survey at Euro 227 per year for a water consumption of 175 m. However, the survey shows a slightly lower average water and sewer tariff at Euro 1.30/m3. The OCU survey also shows that annual bills vary substantially between cities, ranging from 112 to 413 Euro per year. According to another survey, an international water tariff survey by the International Water Association (IWA), the annual water and sewer bill of a household using 200 m per year was US$300 per year, or US$25 per month. This was the second lowest bill among 12 EU countries included in the survey.\n\nAffordability. The AEAS study says that a cup of coffee costs as much as 2.3 days of water supply. The average water and sanitation bill of Euro 191 per year accounts for only 0.6% of household expenditures.\n\nTariff structure. 92% of Spanish cities used increasing-block tariffs, i.e. the tariff per cubic meter increases as consumption increases. Many cities had a large fixed fee that included a consumption of between 60 and 180 cubic meter per year, thus providing no financial incentive to save water below this level.\n\nCost recovery. The Ministry of Environment estimates the cost recovery for water supply and sanitation at \"between 50% and 90%\". However, independent sources estimate it to be as low as 30%.\n\nInvestment. According to a blog on \"Sustainable Spain\", Spain spends €6,330 million annually on the capture, transport and extraction of underground water, plus water distribution and sanitation. However, the industry association AGA estimates investments by its members, which supply water to 75% of the population, at \"more than €290 million\" annually.\n\nFinancing. The European Union is a major financier of the Spanish water and sanitation sector, both through grants by the European Commission and through loans from the European Investment Bank. Between 1986 and 2008 Spain received Euro 21 billion in EU funding for water infrastructure. However, European funding to Spain is set to fall by 40% in the period to 2013, compared with 2000-2006. \"Europe's generosity has contributed to the unsustainability of the Spanish water sector's economic model\", says Enrique Cabrera of the Universidad Politécnica de Valencia. Investments are also financed through loans and bonds, such as a $500 million bond issue by Canal Isabel II in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46704112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46704112", "title": "Water supply problems in Caleta Olivia 2014", "text": "Water supply problems in Caleta Olivia 2014\n\nWater supply problems in Caleta Olivia occurred on 2014 (called the Thirst Days) and culminated in a series of protests about the lack of water produced by the rupture of the aqueduct Jorge Carstens. The Sarmiento, Comodoro Rivadavia and Rada Tilly areas of Argentina were affected. The water shortage began on the 10th of February with a rupture near ti Cerro Dragón (Dragon Hill). This issue left the area of San Jorge Gulf without water.\n\nOnce the first breakdown at Cerro Dragón (Dragon Hill) was repaired on 11 February, the aqueduct broke again near Valle Hermoso (Beautiful valley). This issue created a longer-lasting lack of water that affected the area until 17 February. The moment that the pipes were refilled with drinking water new punctures and cracks appeared at the Caleta Olivia area. This issue mainly occurred because when pipes are not carrying water inside they tend to contract; once the pressure of water returns the expansion of the tubes makes them burst. \nFrom 1999 the aqueduct accumulated more than 550 cracks and punctures in its 77 km section from Cerro Arenales (Arenales Hill) to Caleta Olivia. This damage was mainly caused by the low-quality materials used in the construction of the aqueduct. In Comodoro Rivadavia, the water supply is interrupted during weekends due to the high water consumption rates of industry, the Argentine Army, and the local population.\n\n \nThe State Society of Public Services (\"Servicios Públicos Sociedad del Estado\" in Spanish) gave very little information about the incident. This provoked some 3,000 self-motivated people to protest, calling for the restoration of the precious water supply. The picketers carried banners, blocked streets and avenues, the Town Hall and the National Road number 3 (RN 3) at the city's northern access. The residents who took part in the protest were demanding action from the Mayor to solve the problem. Most of the population had to use seawater to clean up their homes. \nAfter the debate between the Mayor and the people it was decided to keep the RN 3 blockade (main communication road for the east Patagonian region) until the governor of the Santa Cruz Province, Daniel Peralta reached Caleta Olivia to find a definitive solution to the conflict.\nOther problems were exacerbated by the lack of water: sewer systems collapsed, there was a lack of public transport, banks and public offices closed, hospitals provided just minimum services, and production at a few oil wells halted due to the strikes.\n\nThe Jorge Carstens aqueduct promised 100 years of proper operation, with a capacity of 115 million litres per day. Since 1999 the issues that troubled normal functionality were:\nThis aqueduct area is usually visible from the Comodoro Rivadavia – Caleta Olivia motorway, which connects around 300,000 inhabitants, so every time a puncture occurs it is easy to locate. \nIn 2013 an agreement was signed to improve the regional aqueduct system from Musters Lake – [Comodoro Rivadavia] – Rada Tilly – Caleta Olivia.\nThe company responsible for this was the National Entity for Hydrological and Sanitation Works (in Spanish, \"ENOHSA\"). Mr. Lucio Tamburo presented the plans for the parallel aqueduct, assuring that it was estimated to be finished in between August and September.\nThe plan he suggested was:\n\nOn the 15th of February, due to the demonstrations and the lack of water, the Council declared the city under a state of \"hydric emergency\". After this Daniel Peralta and the local government declared the same state for the entire province.\nThe long lasting emergency caused the Argentine Army to increase efforts to supply the city population with drinking water.\nThe local people, together with some local authorities, requested that the provincial government upgrade the status to disaster area.\n\nThe cabinet chief Jorge Capitanich said that \"there were eight ruptures\" in the aqueduct which \"has issues and ruptures that are in process to be repaired, in the majority of districts\".\nThe governor Daniel Peralta declared the city in water emergency on behalf of the province and said that he would request authorization from the legislature to draw credit for $140,000,000 to buy equipment, to build an aqueduct for the water wells at Cañadón Seco (\"Dry Ravine\") and for the construction of a [reverse osmosis plant] that will generate 5,000,000 litres of water per day. Fernando Cotillo, the vice-governor, criticised the townsfolk for their complaints and said that the roadblocks were doing no good to the problem; he also visited the affected area. \nThe mayor of Caleta Olivia, José Manuel Córdoba, denied rumours of resignation and he criticised the people who took part in the RN 3 roadblock. He also announced that 900,000 m³ of water was to be distributed using 17 trucks. The city councillor Juan Erwin Bolívar Acuña Kunz said that he would ask for reports if the solutions did not reach the city. MP Estela Bubola criticised the government; she said that it was obscene to expend more than $20,000,000 on a party at El Calafate while in Caleta Olivia there is no water. She requested an urgent session for the provincial council legislature in Caleta Olivia. She also criticized the mayor of El Calafate.\nThe provincial education council suspended all school activities for all of February at Caleta Olivia, Cañadón Seco, Jaramillo and Fitz Roy. ENOHSA informed on 20 February that the parallel aqueduct construction was 20% completed. \nThe Council workers and employees union and the private oil workers of the Santa Cruz union requested the authorities to \"face the problem\". The secretary of the latest union also complained about the oil drilling companies. The Council Assembly for Civil Protection wrote a letter to the governor requesting \"his prompt intervention\".\nOmar Latini, the head of the Workers Party in Santa Cruz laid a charge of \"unfulfillment of public servant duties\" against the mayor, governor and his cabinet.\nA group of local people endorsed a request demanding the presence of Governor Peralta and requested to the Council an impeachment for the local mayor.\n\nDue to the lack of water in the city, several companies, shops, unions and organizations sent bottled water and food to the city. A description of some of them is below:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5031856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5031856", "title": "Ya ba", "text": "Ya ba\n\nYa ba (, , literally \"mad drug\"), formerly known as ya ma (; literally \"horse drug\"), are tablets containing a mixture of methamphetamine and caffeine.\n\n\"From ya khayan (hard-working pill) in its early days to ya maa (horse medicine), the drug was named ya ba (crazy pill) in 1996\". It was given to horses when pulling carts up steep hills and for other strenuous work in Shan State. The slang terms for ya ba in Burma are \"kyethi\" (literally, \"button\"), \"athi\", and \"palarkar\".\n\nYa ba is sometimes called \"bhul bhuliya\" in India. The name commonly used for it in the Philippines and Indonesia is \"shabú\". In north Thailand it is often referred to as \"chocalee\" due to the somewhat sweet taste ya ba leaves in the mouth and its strong chocolate smell. The name commonly used for it in China is \"ma-goo\" or \"ma-guo\". In Bangladesh, it's colloquially known as \"baba\", \"guti\", \"laal\", \"khawon\", \"loppy\", \"bichi\" etc.\n\nIn Northeast India, especially Manipur, a major trade route of drugs, it is commonly called Y(wai), Angangba/Lal (red), Katha, Prithibi, Maru, WY etc.\n\nYa ba is typically produced in a round pill form. There are many different versions of ya ba, and the most common are red, orange, or lime green in color and carry logos such as \"R\" or \"WY\". They are small and round, roughly in diameter (similar size to Smint but round), which means they can be packed inside a plastic soda straw for easy transportation or in a reusable \"mint\" container. \n\nYa ba tablets typically are consumed orally. Another common method is called \"chasing the dragon\". Users place the ya ba tablet on aluminum foil and heat it from below. As the tablet melts, vapors rise and are inhaled. The drug also may be administered by crushing the tablets into powder, which is then snorted or mixed with a solvent and injected. When swallowed in pill form the duration of the drug's effect is between 8–16 hours, as compared to 1–3 hours when smoked, while the intensity is considerably reduced. The peak of the drug's effect is followed by a come down period lasting 6–10 hours, during which the user may have difficulty sleeping or eating. Many users report that it takes them up to 24 hours after consumption to be able to fall asleep.\n\nYa ba is not commonly injected as many intravenous users favour the pure product instead (methamphetamine, called \"ice\" in Southeast Asia). This illegal drug is especially popular in Thailand, where it is imported from Burma or Laos even though it is sometimes manufactured locally in Thailand.\n\nTypical ya ba users are working males, aged 16–40 years old, and its use is not uncommon among both female and male sex workers in Thailand and Cambodia.\n\nBurma (Myanmar) is the largest producer of methamphetamine in the world, with the majority of ya ba found in Thailand being produced in Burma, particularly in the Golden Triangle and northeastern Shan State, which borders Thailand, Laos, and China. In 2010, Burma trafficked 1 billion tablets to neighboring Thailand. Ethnic militias and rebel groups (in particular the United Wa State Army) are responsible for much of this production; however, the Burmese military units are believed to be heavily involved in the trafficking of the drugs.\n\nYa ba tablets were formerly sold at gas stations and were commonly used by long-haul drivers to stay awake. After many horrific long-distance bus accidents, they were outlawed by the Thai government in 1970. The deposed Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra's campaign from 2003 to eliminate drug-trafficking further helped to curtail widespread use. In particular, use of the drug by bus drivers and truckers is not as widespread as it was in the 1980s.\n\nAs a result of the Thai government crackdown, restricted supply has had an effect on prices, further curtailing the popular use of ya ba. In 1999–2000, when buying a straw-full (around 20 pills) in Chiang Rai Province, north Thailand, ya ba was sold for around 10 baht per pill and commonly used on the go-go circuit and by young \"MTV\" clubbers. Retail prices have risen from 100–150 baht (US$3–4) to 250–450 baht per pill as a result of the crackdown, though it remains a popular party drug.\n\nIn 2000, ya ba was smuggled across the porous border with Myanmar and from the neighbouring Chiang Rai and Chiang Mai Provinces of Thailand. Illegal traffickers often marketed or promoted their product by claiming that the pills contained up to six percent heroin. Rumour suggested it was produced by the corrupt personnel of Wa State Army in Burma.\n\nIn 2014, it was reported that Thailand's northeast provinces have seen a 700 percent increase in the number of people arrested for meth since 2008, according to data from the Narcotics Suppression Bureau. In 2013, authorities counted more than 33,000 meth-related arrests in the northeast. The rapid growth of ya ba use in Isan mirrors that which is occurring across Asia, which now accounts for more than 50 percent of global amphetamine-type stimulant users.\nOn 16 June 2016, the National Council for Peace and Order, the military junta ruling Thailand, stated that it was planning to decriminalise ya ba in the country.\n\nIn 2006, ya ba ma consumption became fashionable for the well Although the extent of ya ba abuse in Bangladesh is not precisely known, seizures of the drug by authorities are frequent. It is also believed those who use it on a regular basis are frequently involved in the distribution of the drug, either directly or indirectly. It is commonly known in Bangladesh as \"khaon\", \"pill\", \"Laal\", \"BABA\", \"gari\", \"Chakka\", \"guti\", and \"bori\", among other street names.\n\nMany Rohingya refugees are hired by Burmese drug dealers to smuggle yaba from Myanmar into Bangladesh. In 2016, 359 Rohingyas were arrested on yaba-smuggling charges, and up to $29 million worth of yaba was seized by the Bangladeshi authorities.\n\nIn October 2018 Bangladesh government drafted a law which punishes a person up to capital punishment who carries minimum 200 gm ya ba.\n\nIn February 2010 it was reported that increasingly large quantities of ya ba were being smuggled into Israel by Thai migrant workers, leading to fears that its use would spread to the Israeli club scene, where ecstasy use is already common. In recent years, it has also been used by immigrant populations in the United States, and occasionally as a club drug replacing ecstasy.\n\nThe majority of long term effects associated with ya ba are analogous with those of methamphetamine, as ya ba mainly consists of caffeine and methamphetamine.\n\n"}
