{"id": "25277457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25277457", "title": "ACROSS Project", "text": "ACROSS Project\n\nACROSS is a Singular Strategic R&D Project led by Treelogic funded by the Spanish Ministry of Industry, Tourism and Trade activities in the field of Robotics and Cognitive Computing over an execution time-frame from 2009 to 2011. ACROSS project involves a number higher than 100 researchers from 13 Spanish entities.\n\nACROSS modifies the design of social robotics, blocked in providing predefined services, going further by means of intelligent systems. These systems are able to self-reconfigure and modify their behavior autonomously through the capacity for understanding, learning and software remote access.\n\nIn order to provide an open framework for collaboration between universities, research centers and the Administration, ACROSS develops Open Source Services available to everybody.\n\nACROSS works in three application domains:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6530971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6530971", "title": "Abu al-Hasan Ali", "text": "Abu al-Hasan Ali\n\nAbu al-Hasan 'Ali (died c. 1009) was ruler of Khwarazm from 997 until his death. The second member of the Ma'munid dynasty, he was the son of Ma'mun I ibn Muhammad.\n\nIn 997 Ali took over Khwarazm following his father's death. Little is known of his reign, but his emirate was dependent upon the Karakhanids, rivals of the Ghaznavids. He died sometime around 1009 and was succeeded by his brother, Abu al-Abbas Ma'mun.\n"}
{"id": "33108283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33108283", "title": "Ahmed Mohamed Mahmoud", "text": "Ahmed Mohamed Mahmoud\n\nAhmed Mohamed Mahmoud (c. 1974 – 4 February 2011) was an Egyptian print reporter for the newspaper Al Tawuun, which is distributed by state-run Al-Ahram. He was shot by a sniper on the balcony of his office while filming the outbreak between Egyptian protestors and security forces on January 28, 2011 during the 2011 Egyptian Revolution. He died six days later in a local Cairo hospital, and he was the first journalist to die in Egypt during its Arab Spring uprising.\n\nMahmoud was shot on his office balcony as riot police were throwing tear gas canisters into crowds of protesters. His office was located near central Tahrir Square which was the central point of fighting between anti-Mubarak and pro-Mubarak forces. Mahmoud was shot by a sniper while filming the incident on his camera phone. Several witnesses have said a uniformed policeman yelled at Mahmoud to stop filming amidst the violence right before he was shot without any time to react. His co-workers called the ambulance several times as they refused to pick him up because of the nature of his attack. They had to drive him themselves to Al Ainy Hospital, the largest hospital in Egypt where he would slip into a coma and die of his wounds six days later on February 4, 2011.\n\nAt the end of the thirty years of President Hosni Mubarak's leadership, Egypt suffered from economic instability, political corruption, starvation, high unemployment rates, and the presence of a 'youth bulge'. All of these are seen as reasons for the 2011 protests. According to 2011 World Bank figures, Egypt's economy grew at a rate of 4.5 percent which was exceptionally well for a third world country. Egyptian corruption levels according to World Transparency reports were ranked 80th. Though levels of political corruption were high, they were low in comparison to almost all other third world nations. What is believed to be the true reason for the political strife is the youth bulge. Due to rapidly increasing life expectancy and rapidly decreasing infant mortality rate people aged 20–24 had doubled since 1995. Just prior to the beginning of the peaceful protests nearly half of the unemployed were part of this youth cohort aged 20–24. Large numbers of youth have been historically responsible for political conflict. In Egypt reasons such as conflicting ideologies were responsible. Of the nearly 2.5 million youth unemployed, 43 percent had university degrees. This can be seen as why the protests were non-violent and of the 300 deaths nearly all were at the hands of the security forces and none from the protestors.\n\nMahmoud was the first reporter killed during the uprising in Egypt between protestors and Mubarak forces. The killing of a journalist and then the unresponsiveness of the ambulance has shaken Egypt's journalism community and furthered protests against the current regime. Mahmoud's widow and fellow journalist, Inas Abdel-Alim, is demanding a full on investigation from the government and a trial for the murder of her husband.\n\nLucas Dolega, who was the first journalist killed in the Arab Spring uprising during the Tunisian uprising, was also killed while covering a protest. Dolega was on a photojournalism assignment for European PressPhoto Agency (epa) in Tunis.\n\nIn response to the killing, White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs released a statement saying the White House continues to receive, \"very disturbing reports\". He continued saying, \"direct negotiations toward orderly transition\" should be made for the power in Egypt. In response to the attack on Mahmoud and others, United States President Barack Obama said in a press conference that the attack were \"unacceptable\", and the Egyptian government should \"protect the rights of the people\".\nA symbolic funeral was held in Tahrir Square in honor of Mahmoud. An empty casket with an Egyptian flag drapped over was carried through the streets with thousands of attendees following.\nMahmoud was married to Inas Abdel-Alim for 11 years and they have one daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "4342651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4342651", "title": "Andrey Soloviev", "text": "Andrey Soloviev\n\nAndrey Borisovich Soloviev () (1953 – September 27, 1993) was a Russian war photographer.\n\nHe was killed by sniper fire while covering the battle for Sukhumi in Abkhazian war.\n\nSoloviev studied at the Moscow Institute of Architecture but never graduated. Instead, he became a photojournalist, joining the Itar-TASS news agency in 1987. He also worked as a stringer for the Associated Press.\n\nAfter the break-up of the Soviet Union, Andrey Soloviev covered many armed conflicts, including in Nagorno-Karabakh, Transnistria, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, South Ossetia. He also filmed the aftermath of the 1988 Armenian earthquake, the collapse of the regime of Nicolae Ceauşescu, and was in Iraq during the Gulf War.\n\nHis photographs received numerous awards, including the World Press Photo prize.\n"}
{"id": "34349567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34349567", "title": "Bahrain Bloody Thursday", "text": "Bahrain Bloody Thursday\n\nBahrain's Bloody Thursday () is the name given by protesters in Bahrain to 17 February 2011, the fourth day of their national uprising. Bahrain security forces launched a pre-dawn raid to clear Pearl Roundabout in Manama of the protesters camped there, most of whom were at the time asleep in tents; four were killed and about 300 injured. The event led some to demand even more political reform than they had been before, calling for an end to the reign of King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa.\n\nThe clearance was described by witnesses as being brutal and sudden. Clouds of tear gas covered the area, and volleys of birdshot were fired on those who refused to withdraw. Medics, ambulances and a journalist were reportedly attacked as well. Sporadic clashes broke out around Bahrain hours after the raid. During the afternoon the National Guard and army deployed armoured vehicles, tanks, more than 50 armoured personnel carriers and set up checkpoints in the streets around the country. Protesters then took refuge at Salmaniya Medical Complex and continued their agitations; thousands of them chanted \"Down with the king, down with the government.\"\n\nThe government accused protesters of attacking the security forces, 50 of whom sustained injuries, and insisted that action had been necessary to pull Bahrain back from the \"brink of a sectarian abyss\". But opposition parties dismissed the government's account as a \"silly play\", described the raid as a \"heinous massacre\" and submitted their resignations from the lower house of Parliament.\n\nInternationally, the Gulf Cooperation Council Ministers of Foreign Affairs expressed their solidarity with government of Bahrain and their support for the measures taken. The United Nations, the European Union and the United States on the other hand expressed their deep concern and regret for the violence used against protesters. The United Kingdom government announced that in light of the unrest it would revoke some arms export licences to Bahrain. A number of international rights groups and independent observers criticised the government crackdown.\n\nThe events were one of a string of protests that occurred across the Arab world following the self-immolation and eventual death of Mohammed Bouazizi in Tunisia, the majority Shia population of Bahrain, as well as some Sunni Muslims, took to the streets demanding reforms. Al Jazeera reported that a protest was planned for 14 February, just a few months after the controversial 2010 election.\n\nOn 14 February (referred to as Day of Rage by protest organisers), about 6,000 people took part in many protests around Bahrain demanding the release of previously detained protesters, socio-economic justice, political reform and a constitutional monarchy. Police then attacked the protesters throughout the day, using tear gas, rubber bullets and shotguns, inflicting many injuries and causing the hospitalisation of four demonstrators. In the evening, Ali Mushaima died from police shotgun wounds to his back at close range. The next day, thousands of mourners attended his funeral. During the ceremony police shot Fadhel Al-Matrook in the back at close range; he died from his wounds within an hour. People were then allowed to march to and occupy Pearl Roundabout, where they began to set up tents; the number of demonstrators had swelled to 10,000 people by nightfall. King Hamad offered his condolences for the two deaths and announced the establishment of a committee to investigate the events of the previous two days. In total, 25 people were said to have been injured on 15 February.\n\nBy 16 February, Pearl Roundabout was still occupied by thousands of protesters. Some of those present at the scene described the mood at the roundabout as \"festive,\" with protesters distributing tea, coffee and food while discussing the situation in the country. Opposition political figures such as Ali Salman and Abdulwahab Hussain also addressed the crowds gathered at the roundabout. Elsewhere in the country a funeral procession was held for Fadhel Al-Matrook, while a motorcade of about 100 cars with supporters of King Hamad passed without police interference.\n\nThe Ministry of Interior then announced that the gathering at Pearl Roundabout was illegal and that it was only tolerated as a display of sympathy in the wake of recent events. King Hamad visited the Bahrain Defence Force headquarters, where he met its Commander-in-Chief Field Marshal Khalifa bin Ahmad and other senior military officers. Together they reviewed \"the preparations undertaken by the Defence Force to protect the security of the homeland and to maintain the safety of citizens.\"\n\nIn Bahrain, especially among the organising activists, the day police stormed the roundabout was posthumously referred to as Bahrain Bloody Thursday; some doctors also referred to it as Black Thursday; while other opposition members have called it a massacre.\n\nIn a pre-dawn raid, at about 3:00 on 17 February, around 1,000 police were dispatched to clear the Pearl Roundabout of an estimated 1,500–3,000 individuals staying overnight in tents. According to the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry, police were armed with sticks, shields, sound bombs, tear gas and shotguns. They moved on protesters from two directions, the flyover north of Pearl Roundabout and Noaim, south of the roundabout. In addition, personnel from NSA and BDF were onsite.\n\nAccording to eyewitnesses, the raid was sudden and without warning and many sleeping protesters, including women and children, were awoken by the sounds of tear gas and stun grenades. Armed plainclothes policemen arrived in more than 100 civilian cars and started breaking into tents before the uniformed officers started shooting. The police carried knives, which they used to slice through tents, before beating women and men inside and firing on some people with bird-shot shotguns. Clouds of tear gas covered Pearl Roundabout that \"one could not see surroundings,\" according to one witness.\n\nMaryam Alkhawaja of the Bahrain Centre for Human Rights said: \"The attack was very violent, [the police] were not showing any mercy.\" An unnamed injured protester told the local independent newspaper \"Al-Wasat\" he was within a group of protesters who were awake and that they chanted \"peaceful ... peaceful\" before being attacked by police who reportedly stole his wallet, camera and mobile phone after beating and dragging him with a rope. Another injured protester described how women and children were running all over the place; even after withdrawing to nearby villages, police still pursued protesters and arrested \"large numbers\" of them. Other eyewitnesses said police searched the cars parked around Pearl Roundabout, damaging some of them.\n\nYet another injured protesters said: \"They had encircled us and they kept shooting tear gas and live rounds. The circle got closer and closer.\" Some witnesses claimed the police used anti-Shia curses during their attacks on the mainly Shia protesters. Medics who arrived at Pearl Roundabout said they saw police stamping on handcuffed protesters who laid on the ground. A nurse said she saw a group of police \"execute\" a young protester with a gun at \"point-blank range\" after handcuffing and beating him.\n\n\"ABC News\" reporter Miguel Marquez said he was beaten by men carrying clubs while he was making a phone call report. \"There was a canister that looked like – No! No! No! Hey! I'm a journalist here! I'm going! I'm going! I'm going! I'm going! ... I'm hit.\" Then, in an attempt to show he was not a protester, Marquez yelled \"Journalist, journalist!,\" yet he reported getting hit multiple times and that his camera was stolen. He described the plainclothes police who reportedly attacked him as a \"gang of thugs,\" who wanted to clear the square before planned protests following Friday prayers.\n\nA medical volunteer said that despite showing their identification cards police attacked ten medics at the roundabout who had offered their services.\n\nFor eight hours Health Minister Faisal al-Hamar prevented ambulances going to the assistance of those injured at Pearl Roundabout. Doctors and paramedics protested inside Salmaniya Medical Complex (SMC); while still doing their best to help the wounded, medics signed a petition and formed a human chain calling for his resignation for \"blocking ambulances from going to help those injured in Pearl Roundabout.\" They claimed that he told doctors at the hospital of his resignation before leaving. However, he later rejected that claim.\n\nDespite the block, Salmaniya Medical Complex's disaster plan was activated on the morning of the attack. It called for more than a dozen ambulances to search nearby areas and Pearl Roundabout. Another dozen ambulances were put on stand-by, according to a member of the medical staff. The staff said that ambulances were functioning in accordance with the plan until about 6:00 am, when an alleged call from the Ministry of Interior ordered all but two ambulances to head back to the SMC. However, this order was ignored and more ambulances were sent to search for the injured in the areas surrounding the roundabout.\n\nAbout five ambulances reached Pearl Roundabout, where they were confronted by police and army forces; three drivers and nine paramedics were attacked. One of the injured drivers claimed that police had clubbed him and that a senior officer had told him: \"If I see you again, I’ll kill you.\" Another ambulance driver, who was unharmed, said that police removed injured protesters from his vehicle by force and a military officer – whom he believed to be a Saudi, based on his Arabic dialect – held a gun to his head and warned him to drive away or be shot. One ambulance was reportedly confiscated by police, who then took it to an unknown location after beating its driver and other paramedics, who had to walk back to the SMC.\n\nA paramedic also said police allowed the first ambulances that reached Pearl Roundabout to pass safely, while some security personnel captured videos, but when the ambulances moved out carrying casualties security forces had targeted the vehicles. He said: \"Later Bahrain T.V. showed only the scenes where they allowed us to pass in order to mislead the public opinion. I personally heard orders given to security forces via their communication devices to target, threat and delay paramedics as long as they can. Security forces dealt with us as if we were defendants and partners to protesters who wanted to hide them, whereas what we were doing was a professional and humane duty that has nothing to do with our political position.\" When the block was lifted in the late morning till noon, paramedics did not find any casualties to take back to the SMC at Pearl Roundabout, despite seeing handcuffed protesters being stomped on by police when they arrived.\n\nThe government account of the incident indicated that police, using a megaphone, had ordered protesters to evacuate the area and that some had done so, whereas others remained in defiance of the law. It added that police only intervened after exhausting all opportunities for dialogue and that lethal shots were fired only at armed protesters who attacked police officers. Security forces reported finding pistols, bullets, large quantities of knives, daggers, swords and other sharp objects, as well as Hezbollah flags at the site.\n\nOn a state television show, Ministry of Interior spokesman Tariq Al-Hassan said that fifty police officers had been injured, including two with serious sword wounds and that \"one protester drove over police resulting in injuries including cutting-off fingers of a policeman before we could catch him.\" He also denied policemen prevented ambulances from reaching Pearl Roundabout or attacked any paramedics, but instead: \"What happened is that protesters stole an ambulance car, so we were checking on every ambulance that reaches the roundabout.\" One doctor working at SMC's ER supported the government's account, accusing protesters of attacking the Under-Secretary-of-State for Health, taking control of all hospital entrances and stealing an ambulance.\n\nThe Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry, set up by the king to report on the events of February and March, did not see any evidence to support the government's claim that protesters were armed or that medics had supplied them with weapons, however it stated that medics took control of the first floor of Salmaniya hospital. Eyewitnesses also denied being warned by the police, saying that if they had known of the police presence then women and children would have been evacuated.\n\nThe raid culminated in the destruction of the encampment, with flattened tents and protesters' belongings scattered all over the place. Security forces then declared the protest camp to be illegal and installed barbed wire around Pearl Roundabout. An hour after the attack, a number of protesters tried to return to the roundabout, which was completely controlled by police. Security forces fired a shotgun on one protester directly in the head from a few centimetres away, killing him instantly. Police claimed the protesters attacked them using \"metal rods, swords, molotov cocktails, stones, and other weapons.\" After some more time around 500 protesters gathered in the Noaim area, but were dispersed by police.\n\nSporadic clashes broke out around Bahrain hours after the raid. During the afternoon, the National Guard deployed eight armoured vehicles and the Bahrain Defence Force deployed tanks and at least 50 armoured personnel carriers armed with machine guns around the capital, Manama, the first time military armoured vehicles had been seen in the streets since the protests commenced. Military checkpoints were set up and patrols circulated throughout the country. The Interior Ministry issued a warning to citizens to stay out of the streets; while the army warned people that they were ready to take \"punitive measures\" to restore order. The Bahrain Defence Force issued Statement 1, which asked citizens to \"distance themselves from gatherings in vital areas in the capital [to prevent] fear, shock and serious traffic disruptions.\" Main roads leading to Manama were blocked and traffic was also redirected, while main roads of the capital were almost empty, as workers stayed home, leaving banks and \"other key institutions\" closed.\n\nAccording to an unnamed Al Jazeera reporter, hospitals in Manama were full because of patients that were awaiting treatment as a result of and during the police raid, including medical personnel who were attacked by police while trying to help the wounded. \"New York Times\" columnist Nicolas Kristof reported that \"hospital corridors were also full of frantic mothers searching desperately for children who had gone missing in the attack.\" Women's cries were evident in the hospital and some fainted. The Minister of Health appeared on state television and claimed that the situation at the main hospital was calm and that there were only seven minor injuries.\n\nThe blood bank at SMC called for blood donations, while the U.S. missionary hospital announced that it will be treating those injured for free. An eyewitness at the hospital said: \"Lots of people are standing at the gates of the hospital. The police have closed the area so that no people can get in or out – some tried to get out and were shot at by police.\" The SMC was seen as a safe place for the opposition protesters to go. By late afternoon, about 4,000 protesters had congregated at the hospital, while protesters who had gathered in the car parks near the emergency entrance chanted: \"Down with the regime, with our blood we will defend our rights.\"\n\nAfter seeing the violence, Ali al-Ghanmi, a police officer, left his guard post and joined the crowd, announcing to them that he could no longer support \"a killer institution.\" The crowd hoisted him on their shoulders and al-Ghanmi became an immediate \"mini-celebrity\" of the protest movement.\n\nMore than 300 individuals were injured during the raid, including women and children; some of them in critical condition. Injured protesters were taken to the Salmaniya Medical Complex, many of them with broken limbs and open wounds. Four individuals were killed by police using shotguns, from close range. While two of them who were shot in the back, another protester was shot in the thigh and subsequently died at the SMC; the fourth was shot in the head later and died instantly. At least 25,000 mourners took part at the funeral procession, which was held in Sitra on 18 February for the three protesters originating from the island.\n\n\nDr Sadiq Alekry, a 44-year-old plastic surgeon, voluntarily offered his services at the roundabout on the evening of 16 February, shortly after he had returned from Houston. According to Human rights watch, Alekry along with other staff were wearing special medical jackets showing the Red Crescent. During the raid, riot police attacked his tent and cut through it; despite telling them he was a physician, police handcuffed him from his back and a number of security officers repeatedly punched, kicked and hit him with sticks on his head and other parts of the body.\n\nAbout 20 officers then marched him away from Pearl Roundabout. Alekry said that while walking him, riot police also broke his nose and damaged his left eye so badly in the process that he temporarily lost his sight. He was then taken to a police bus, where his pants were pulled down by an officer who threatened Alekry with sexual assault; though the threat was not carried out.\n\nIn the bus, Alekry's shirt was pulled over his head and, while he was still hand-cuffed, security officers continued kicking and beating him for about an hour, until he fell to the floor. Nevertheless, the beating continued and Alekry reported that a police officer told him: \"If you bleed in my chair with your dirty blood I will beat you to death!\" When an ambulance arrived, police allowed him and three other detainees to be taken to hospital. He arrived at the SMC at 6:00 am, with severe injuries to his back, chest and face and underwent facial surgery a few days later.\n\n\nAli Ahmed Moumen was a 22-year-old college senior who died at the SMC on 17 February after being shot by a police in the thigh. His death certificate indicated he died due to \"extensive bleeding leading to intractable hypovolemic shock.\" Hours before his death he had posted a \"status\" update on \"Facebook\" saying: \"My blood is sacrificed for my country.\" That night, Moumen was sleeping beside his younger brother and made it out of Pearl Roundabout safely, but, according to his father, was then killed when he tried to return after hearing women and children were trapped. One of his friends said Ali was \"shot in the street and merely left to die.\"\n\nMoumen was picked up at around 8:30 from Pearl Roundabout. He had serious injuries to his pelvis and right thigh. Bleeding profusely, two paramedics found Moumen after police allowed them through. The paramedics reported that they saw another possibly dead body with a fractured skull close to Moumen's, but were not permitted to pick it up. While leaving, the ambulance was reportedly attacked by riot police who beat the driver before allowing them to continue to the SMC. At the emergency room, Moumen had a surgery, but he died at 9:30. His father called Prime Minister Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa a \"killer\" and blamed him for his son's death. An unnamed policeman who charged with the murder of Moumen was acquitted on 27 September 2012.\n\n\nAli Mansour Ahmed Khudair was a 53 or 58-year-old Bahraini who died on 17 February after police shot at his back. He had 91 pellets in his chest. Khudair was a fisherman from Sitra who lived in a ramshackle house. He had three sons: Hassan (21), Jaffar (14) and Ahmed (9), as well as an 18-year-old daughter. Jaffar said: \"I was with my father in Pearl Roundabout when they attacked. We were asleep at first, when I woke up, I started moving away, but my father told me to endure, stay and not fear. Then we heard screams and rushed there. For a few seconds he spoke to the security forces, asking them to stay away from women and children, but they shot him in the chest. He fell to the ground and I couldn't see him after tear gas cloud covered the place.\"\n\n\nMahmoud Makki Abutaki was a 22-year-old college student majoring in engineering, when he died on 17 February after being shot in the back by police. Medics pulled about 200 pellets of birdshot from his chest and arms. Abutaki's elder brother, Ahmed, who was in the morgue while holding his brothers' hands, recalled the last conversation they had the previous night for the media present: \"He said, 'This is my chance, to have a say, so that maybe our country will do something for us.' My country did do something; it killed him.\"\n\n\nIsa Abdulhasan Ali Hussain was a 60-year-old Bahraini who died on 17 February morning immediately after riot police fired at his head from point-blank range. Hussain was a part of a group of protesters who marched back towards Pearl Roundabout after being dispersed when police shot him. Eyewitnesses say he went near security forces asking them to allow young people help the injured protesters. However, police claimed he was with a group of protesters who attacked them using metal rods, swords, molotov cocktails, stones and other weapons. His funeral was held on 18 February in Karzakan and was attended by thousands of mourners. An unnamed policeman charged with his murder was acquitted on 27 September 2012.\n\n\nKing Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa praised the concluding statement from the meeting of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf foreign ministers, which was held on 17 February in Manama, and offered \"full support\" for Bahrain's security and politically, economically and defensively. At a news conference, Foreign Minister Khalid ibn Ahmad Al Khalifah alleged, and expressed his surprise, that protesters had attacked police. When asked about the reasons for choosing a pre-dawn time for the raid, he said: \"The reason for choosing this time was the smaller number of participants, and this reduces injuries.\" He called the deaths of the three protestors during the raid a \"regrettable accident. Police action was necessary to pull Bahrain back from the brink of a sectarian abyss.\" During the press conference, which was broadcasting live on national television, \"Al-Wasat\" correspondent Reem Khalifa cried tears and described what happened as a \"real massacre.\"\n\nIn what \"Al-Wasat\" called \"an unexpected move,\" Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa appeared on state-owned television to express his condolences to the people for the \"hard days\" and asked them to \"calm down.\" He offered open dialogue with political societies, shortly before a royal decree was issued by his father, King Hamad, commissioning Salman to lead the dialogue.\n\n\nAll 18 MPs from Al Wefaq, the only opposition political party represented in parliament, submitted their resignations. They announced that the investigation committee formed by the king to fact-find the issues into the previous two killing incidents was only for media consumption, more so in the light of the deaths of four more protesters. They said the extraordinary session of parliament was illegal according to its rules of procedure. Al Wefaq described the government account as a \"silly play that wasn't even as good as the previously exposed plays.\" It considered the report, which published photographs of firearms, swords and daggers, as \"funny\" and that these tools were not commercially sold in Bahrain.\n\nAli Salman, the head of Al Wefaq, said the party would continue to demand reform. Abdul Jalil Khalil, an Al Wefaq member of parliament, described the raid as \"real terrorism. Whoever took the decision to attack the protest was aiming to kill.\" He also said the casualty number is proportially large given the small size of Bahrain's population and added: \"After what happened today, people are asking us to leave parliament. Quit the government.\" Other Al Wefaq MP's and lawyers made a criminal complaint against senior officials of the Ministry of Interior, including its minister, the agents, the commander of public security forces, his assistants and the various heads of security zones.\n\nSeven opposition political parties, including Al Wefaq and the National Democratic Action Society, issued a joint statement rejecting the government's charge that the demonstrators were armed and condemning \"the heinous massacre\" perpetrated by police, including the prevention of ambulances from reaching the site to ferry the wounded to hospital. They demanded the resignation of the government and the formation of a new one to investigate the \"crime\" and submit political reforms. Ibrahim Sharif, the head of National Democratic Action Society and a Sunni Muslim, said protesters were not given enough time to evacuate the area and that government could have told them hours before or even by small papers thrown from helicopters. He told the \"BBC\" that \"throughout the day there were rumours we would have another 24 hours, but the attack has come without [any] warning.\"\n\nThe General Federation of Workers Trade Unions in Bahrain condemned the use of force in breaking up the peaceful gathering at Pearl Roundabout and asked King Hamad to intervene to stop security forces' violence and to punish those responsible for the incidents. They also announced that a meeting of the Central Council and heads of other trade unions is in the state of permanent session to take any deemed necessary steps, including the call for a general strike. The Bahrain Teachers’ Society called for a strike and gatherings outside schools on 20 February. The Bahrain Human Rights Society and 18 other civil society foundations condemned the \"sudden brutal attack\" and asked other international and Arab figures to condemn it.\n\nAyatollah Isa Qassim, Bahrain's highest-ranking Shia cleric, described the incident as a \"massacre\" in Friday sermon's \"Khutbah\": \"This reckless murder, and thirst to kill would create a complete break between the government and the people, and it will not allow any chance of any vote aiming to calm the situation and heal the wounds.\" A group of clerics including the head of the Olama council visited the wounded at the SMC and spoke of their support for the protesters' demands and also called for immediate political reforms. The Olama council described the raid as a \"terrible crime and at least a massacre\" and asked for immediate urgent initiatives to achieve the \"just demands of the people. We refuse blank prosthetic solutions, the practice of wasting time, and referral to the powerless Parliament that lacks popular legitimacy.\"\n\nDoctors, nurses and paramedics organised a sit-in at the parks of the SMC demanding the resignation of the health minister and condemning the blocking of ambulances from going to Pearl Roundabout. The Bahrain Medical Society and Bahrain Dental Society issued a joint statement denouncing the \"unjustified and excessive use of force by police, and the banning of medical teams from performing their duties\" and asked the king to take immediate action to stop these procedures from re-occurring.\n\n\nThe United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon asked for bringing to justice those responsible for the violence. He expressed his deep concern and disturbance \"by the violent means used to disperse demonstrators.\" A spokesperson for Catherine Ashton, the European Union's High Representative, said that she was very concerned about the events that took place and that she expressed regret for the deaths and acts of violence, while also calling on the Bahraini government to respect and protect the basic rights of its citizens including the right to assemble peacefully. \"Concerns expressed by the people must be addressed peacefully through dialogue.\"\n\n\nFrench Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Christine Valle expressed regret for the excessive use of force in several Arab countries and serious concern about the recent developments in Bahrain, as well as Libya and Yemen, in particular. German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle condemned the use of violence by the police and called on officials in Bahrain to stop the use of violence immediately and protect the protesters better. \"They [protestors] are just exercising their rights.\" Saudi Arabian prince Talal Bin Abdulaziz, father of prince Al Waleed Bin Talal, said there is a chance protests in Bahrain would move into Saudi Arabia if serious reforms were not carried out. United Arab Emirates Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan expressed his country's support for Bahrain, stressing that what affects Bahrain and its security would affect the entire Gulf Cooperation Council and ultimately all countries of the world.\n\nUnited Kingdom Foreign Secretary William Hague said that he was \"deeply concerned\" by the \"unacceptable violence\" used against protesters. He also stressed the \"need for peaceful action to address the concerns of protesters\" to his Bahraini counterpart. The U.K. government then announced that in light of the unrest it has decided to revoke some arms export licenses to Bahrain stating that \"licenses will not be issued when officials judge that there is a risk that the exports may provoke regional or internal conflicts or be used to facilitate internal repression.\" However, arms sales continued throughout the year. The British Foreign Office also temporarily closed its embassy in Bahrain.\n\nUnited States President Barack Obama expressed his objection the use of the violence by the Bahraini government against peaceful demonstrators. White House spokesman Jay Carney said that it was \"not an appropriate reaction\" to use force against the protesters. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton called Bahrain’s foreign minister during the day to convey \"our deep concern about the actions of the security forces.\" The Pentagon's spokesman said that they were keeping a close look at developments in Bahrain and called on all parties to \"exercise restraint and refrain from violence.\" Jennifer Stride, the Bahrain-based U.S. Fifth Fleet's spokeswoman, said there was no \"indication the protests will cause significant disruption\" for the fleet, which she also said was \"not being targeted.\"\n\n\nBernie Ecclestone, the F1 commercial rights holder, said if the unrest has \"not quietened down by Wednesday, I think we will have to cancel the 2011 Bahrain Grand Prix probably.\" On 21 February the race was postponed and then canceled later. Human Rights Watch called on the Bahraini government to stop attacking peaceful protesters and start probes into the deaths. Amnesty International similarly condemned the government crackdown and asked for an independent investigation into the events. Anonymous, an online hackers grouping, issued a statement condemning the crackdown and expressed its solidarity with the protesters: \"By interfering with the freedom to hold peaceful protests, the Bahrainian government has made itself a clear enemy of its own citizens and of Anonymous. The actions of this regime will not be forgotten, nor will they be forgiven.\"\n\n\"New York Times\" columnist Nicolas Kristof described the raid as \"brutal repression\" that is usually \"confined to remote and backward nations\" and referred to the government's version of events as \"preposterous\" and expressed his sadness over the events. Fareed Zakaria, \"CNN\"s international affairs analyst, said that the crackdown on the protesters was a \"rash move that will enrage many of its people and cost the regime international prestige. This is a terrible mistake and they will pay a heavy price for it. The regime in Bahrain is doing something very rash and unwise; it is trying to respond by using force and punitive measures. This is not going to work in the end.\"\n\nThe events at the Pearl Roundabout and Salmaniyya Medical Complex marked a turning point in the Bahraini uprising, according to the media; an analysis by \"The Guardian\" said it reduced, if not killed, any chance of dialogue. The raid expanded the demands of some protesters from asking for reforms which included writing a new constitution to calling for an end to the monarchy. According to the \"Bahrain Mirror\", the phrase \"after Thursday, we stopped the talking; the people want to overthrow the regime\" (Arabic: من بعد الخميس أنهينا الكلام، الشعب يريد إسقاط النظام) became popular in later protests. On 22 February, a mass rally dubbed the March of loyalty to martyrs was held in honour of the four protesters who had lost their lives during the day; over 100,000 people took part in the protest. The Al Jazeera English documentary \"\" also features the events of the day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21927740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21927740", "title": "Barbara Pit massacre", "text": "Barbara Pit massacre\n\nThe Barbara Pit massacre (, ), also known as the Huda Jama massacre, was the mass killing of members of the NDH Armed Forces and the Slovene Home Guard, as well as civilians after the end of World War II in Yugoslavia, in an abandoned coal mine near Huda Jama, Slovenia. More than a thousand people were killed by the Yugoslav Partisans during May and June 1945, following the Bleiburg repatriations. The location of the massacre was sealed with concrete barriers and discussion about it was forbidden.\n\nThe mass grave site, one of the largest in Slovenia, was first publicly discussed in 1990, after the fall of communism in Yugoslavia. A memorial chapel was raised near the entrance to the mine in 1997. Investigation of the Barbara Pit mine () began in 2008. It took several months for workers to remove concrete walls built after the war to seal the cave. On 3 March 2009, investigators found 427 unidentified bodies at a ditch in the mine. Another 369 corpses were found on the first five meters of a nearby shaft. The Barbara Pit mine was subsequently visited by the Croatian and Slovenian political leadership to pay tribute to the victims. On 25 October 2017, the Slovenian government announced that the remains of 1,416 victims were exhumed from the site and reburied at the Dobrava memorial park near Maribor.\n\nDuring World War II, the Barbara Pit mine, a coal mine located 16 kilometers south of the town of Celje, was used by the Germans for coal production. The mine was closed in May 1944.\n\nWith the collapse of the Independent State of Croatia (NDH) in May 1945, its Armed Forces, together with other Axis troops, started retreating towards Austria in order to surrender to the British forces. The NDH leadership abolished racial laws and intended to seek Western support in fighting Communism. On 6 May they sent a request for collaboration with the Allies, which was rejected. The Yugoslav Partisans took control of Zagreb, the capital of NDH, on 8 May. The retreating columns marched through Slovenia and were accompanied by many civilians. By 14 May, several thousand troops were admitted by the British. On 15 May, the main column reached the town of Bleiburg, where their surrender was rejected and were repatriated to the Yugoslav Partisans. Those that were previously taken into British captivity were returned to Yugoslavia between 18 and 31 May, including around 10,000 Slovene Home Guards.\n\nThe prisoners were subjected to forced marches by the Yugoslav authorities. Transit and detention camps were set across Slovenia where a selection was made. The OZNA (Department of National Security) issued precise instructions on dealing with prisoners of war. An instruction issued on 6 May 1945 by the OZNA stipulates that prisoners are to be \"liquidated on the spot\":\n\nSeveral thousand Slovene Home Guard POWs were taken by trains from the Austrian border at Dravograd to Maribor and from there to the town of Celje. From the town's railway station they were sent through Celje by foot towards the nearby Teharje camp, a prison camp that was administered by the OZNA. During the trip the prisoners were beaten and those that lagged behind were shot. There were also civilians in the columns. Their valuables were taken from them upon arrival at the camp. German civilians from the Kočevje region (Gottscheers) were also brought to Teharje. The Home Guard POWs were separated into three groups: the first group consisted of minors, the second consisted of those that were members of the Home Guard for less than five months, and the third group included others. However, there were exceptions of this rule. The third group had the harshest treatment at the camp and were often without water and food. Around 7,000 to 8,000 people passed through the Teharje camp.\n\nPrisoners from the third group were first set for liquidation. Their hands were tied in pair with another inmate and were meant to be transported by trucks to nearby execution sites. The OZNA engaged drivers from across the country to carry out the transports. The drivers were not informed about the details of the action.\n\nIn late May and June 1945, when the Yugoslav army started emptying its prison camps in Slovenia, prisoners from the Teharje camp and the Stari Pisker prison were brought by trucks at night to the abandoned Barbara Pit mine in Huda Jama. Slovene Home Guard POWs that were singled out in Slovenj Gradec, Velenje, Kranj and Celje were the first ones to arrive on the last week of May. NDH troops were brought on foot. Once arrived, groups of 5–6 prisoners with hands tied with wire were stripped, ordered to kneel above a mine shaft and shot in the head, or were hit with a mine hammer or a pickaxe. In some cases, groups of 20–30 prisoners were tossed into a mine shaft, followed with hand grenades to finish off the victims. A number of prisoners were thrown in alive. Once the shafts were filled with corpses, the remaining prisoners were sent in the direction of Zagorje in northwest Croatia where they were killed, while the bodies were covered with lime to speed up decomposition. The mine was then enclosed with 400 cubic meters of concrete and wooden barriers. Those still conscious tried to climb over each other to reach the hatch, but could not escape the sealed mine.\n\nThe liquidations were carried out by the 3rd Brigade of the Slovenian KNOJ (People's Defence Corps of Yugoslavia) Division. Several thousand people were killed in the massacre. Most of the victims were prisoners of war, members of the NDH Armed Forces and Slovene Home Guard, and civilians. There are no records of survivors.\n\nIt is estimated that at least 70,000 to 80,000 people were killed following the Bleiburg repatriations. More than 600 mass grave sites are located in Slovenia, which the Yugoslav authorities concealed and prohibited discussion about the massacres.\n\nThe part of the Barbara Pit mine where the killings took place was hermetically sealed. The rest was put into operation on 1 November 1945 and produced coal until 1992. There is no written data about the massacre in Yugoslav archives. One of the earliest mentions of the event is connected to a judicial proceeding from May 1947, when five people were sentenced to death on spying charges, including a 32-year-old pregnant woman who claimed that Yugoslav authorities were beating and killing POWs at Brežice, Košnice and Huda Jama.\n\nThe first official studies of the site began in November 1989 when a criminal report was filled against unknown perpetrators for the killing of an undetermined number of prisoners at Huda Jama. The state prosecution forwarded the report to the Celje Police Department in October 1991. A decade later, in 2001, the Slovenian police began a formal investigation of the graves at Huda Jama. In January 2008, the Commission on Concealed Mass Graves in Slovenia decided to inspect the Barbara Pit. The first of eleven barriers was set 300 meters after the entrance. It was breached on 24 July 2008. It took workers eight months to remove of gangue and penetrate eleven reinforced concrete partition walls (each thick) to reach the graves. The first corpse was found on 23 February 2009, 449 meters into the mine, near the 9th barrier. The victim appeared to have survived the slaughter and managed to dig through 7–8 meters of land until he reached an impassable concrete door and ran out of oxygen. On 3 March 2009, investigators found a mass of 427 corpses that were largely mummified due to the lack of oxygen in the mine. Hair, skin, ears and nails were still visible on the corpses. Excavating a further into a 45 meter deep mine shaft uncovered another 369 corpses.\n\nAndreja Valić, head of the Slovenian Research Centre for National Reconciliation, said upon the discovery of the mass grave that \"current information, based on oral testimony, indicate that the slain people could have been Slovenian or Croatian citizens\". Further investigation showed that most of the victims were Croats and Slovenes. The researchers found orthopedic equipment and bandages among the corpses, meaning that wounded soldiers were also among the victims. Several pigtails plaited from women’s hair were also discovered.\n\nJože Dežman, head of the Commission, said that \"this is one of 15 Slovenian Srebrenicas\". Slovenian pathologist Jože Balažic commented: \"The scenes that we found there indicate that the victims died in agony. All corpses are covered with lime and based on their body position it appears that the victims had been moving for a time.\" Pavel Jamnik from the Slovenian Criminal Police Directorate noted that \"some victims were probably still conscious when their executioners scattered lime, that is cracked, which means that they moved. Several skeletons are sticking above the surface of the lime and it is obvious that they tried to pull out in agony\". Croatian medical doctors offered their assistance in DNA analysis of the remains, which could potentially be used to identify Croat victims.\n\nOn 25 October 2017, more than eight years since the discovery of the massacre, the Slovenian Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities announced that, based on preliminary data of anthropological and archaeological analysis, a total of 1,416 victims were found in the coal mine. Remains of 769 individuals were exhumed from the site in 2009 and another 647 in 2016. Among them there were 21 women, while the youngest victims were 17 years old. Most of the victims are believed to be members of the military forces of NDH. On 6 March 2017, Slovenian anthropologist Petra Leben Seljak said that among the second group, exhumed in 2016, almost all were men older than 20 and younger than 40, while 8 percent were aged between 18 and 20.\n\nThe first high-ranking official to visit the mass grave after the uncovering on 3 March 2009 was the Slovenian General Prosecutor Barbara Brezigar, who described the scene as \"horrific\". In the following days, the site was visited by Slovenian Member of European Parliament and former Prime Minister Lojze Peterle. Peterle criticised President of Slovenia Danilo Türk for failing to visit the site. When asked to comment on the issue during a visit to the town of Trbovlje on 8 March, the International Woman's Day, only 10 kilometers away from the mass grave, Türk refused to comment on the issue, qualifying political manipulations with the mass grave as a \"second rate topic\". He dismissed the calls to visit the grave as \"political manipulation\". He subsequently condemned the crime, adding: \"as I condemn all executions during and after the (Second World) war\".\n\nTürk's statements that these killings must be understood \"in the context of World War Two\" provoked the Slovenian Minister of Defence Ljubica Jelušič to maintain that there can be no excuse for not condemning the killings. Together with the Prime Minister and Speaker of the National Assembly, President Türk laid wreaths at the entrance to the mine on 1 November 2009.\n\nOn 9 March, Croatian Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor and Interior Minister Tomislav Karamarko visited the site and offered help in DNA identification. On 10 March, the Croatian government called for a joint Croatian-Slovenian investigation into the grave and the implementation of the 2008 agreement on the marking of military cemeteries. By 2013, the Slovenian government helped finance the arrangement of the site and the setup of walking paths, drainage, air ventilation and electrification.\n\nAfter the fall of communism, a memorial chapel was dedicated at the site in 1997. Shortly after its dedication the chapel was defaced and slogans were scrawled along the walls, including \"Death to traitors\" and \"Death to fascism\".\n\nA commemoration was held on 13 June 2015, on the occasion of the massacre's 70th anniversary, that was attended by around 2,000 people. Among them was Slovenian President Borut Pahor, Catholic Church bishops from Croatia and Slovenia, and various delegations of Croatian and Slovenian organizations.\n\nOn 27 October 2016, 778 of the exhumed victims were transferred to the Dobrava cemetery near Maribor. The commemoration was attended by the Croatian leadership, including Prime Minister Andrej Plenković, President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović and Speaker Božo Petrov, Church dignitaries, and Slovenian President Borut Pahor. At a Croatian government session on the same day, Plenković said that \"the burial of victims of post-war communist terror in Huda Jama reminds us of our debt to the victims of totalitarianism\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "598704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=598704", "title": "Becton Dickinson", "text": "Becton Dickinson\n\nBecton, Dickinson and Company (BD) is an American medical technology company that manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems, and reagents. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs nearly 50,000 people in more than 50 countries throughout the world. In fiscal year ending September 30, 2009, 60% of BD sales were generated from non-U.S. markets.\n\nThe company's customers include health care institutions, science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry, and the general public. BD was one of the first companies to sell U.S.-made glass syringes. It was also a pioneer in the production of hypodermic needles. Today, BD is divided into two segments: BD Medical and BD Life Sciences. BD is ranked #251 in the 2018 Fortune 500 list.\n\nThe firm in October 2014 agreed to acquire CareFusion for a price of $12.2 billion in cash and stock. In April 2017 Becton Dickinson agreed to acquire C. R. Bard for $24 billion.\n\nBD was founded in 1897 by Maxwell W. Becton and Fairleigh S. Dickinson, two American businessmen who met on a sales trip. The same year the company made its first sale, a Luer-all-glass syringe that sold for $2.50. In 1898, BD acquired its first patent for a medical product. In 1899 the company introduced its first logo which was meant to symbolize guaranteed superior quality of the products provided by BD. In 1904, BD acquired the Philadelphia Surgical Company. This very first acquisition and other early acquisitions significantly expanded the company's manufacturing ability and product offering. Two years later, BD incorporated in the state of New Jersey and built a manufacturing facility in East Rutherford, the first in the U.S. created specifically for the production of thermometers, hypodermic needles, and syringes. In 1924, BD manufactured its first syringe designed specifically for insulin injection. One year later, BD introduced the BD Yale Luer-Lok Syringe, designed and patented by Fairleigh S. Dickinson, Sr. It provided a simple and secure method of attaching and removing the needle to and from the syringe. Today, Luer taper connectors are the standard for syringes in the U.S. In 1947 Joseph Kleiner developed the Evacutainer—a device used to draw blood by vacuum through a needle into a test tube. This product eventually evolved to become the BD Vacutainer Blood Collection system.\n\nIn 1948, BD faced new leadership as Fairleigh S. Dickinson, Jr. and Henry P. Becton, sons of the founders, took over the company. Their 24-year tenure was a time of rapid development for BD. The company grew within the U.S. as well as internationally. In 1949, it opened its first manufacturing site outside of New Jersey in Columbus, Nebraska. In 1961, it established a manufacturing facility in Canaan, Connecticut. BD also soon expanded to Canada (1951), Mexico (1952), France (1955), and Brazil (1956). The tenure of Fairleigh S. Dickinson, Jr. and Henry P. Becton was also a time of significant product innovation. In 1950, BD's first sterile disposable product, a blood collection set, was developed and sold to the American Red Cross. In 1954, BD introduced the first completely disposable syringe made of glass: BD Hypak. This innovative product was used in a large-scale field test of the polio vaccine developed by Dr. Jonas Salk. One year later, BD entered the microbiology field through the acquisition of the Baltimore Biological Laboratory. In 1961, the company introduced its disposable BD Plastipak syringe. Under the new leadership the company also went public (1962) and appeared for the first time in the Fortune 500 list (1970).\n\nIn 1973, BD added another U.S. facility — a research center in Durham, North Carolina in Research Triangle Park. The center was established to help the company meet United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requirements, research improved manufacturing and process methods, and develop future innovative technologies. In 1975, BD Pharmaceutical Systems Europe acquired an important patent for a prefilled syringe injecting heparin. In 1980, BD developed its first automated system for mycobacteria testing—the BD BACTEC 460TB System. The next year brought significant signs of the company's development as sales surpassed the $1 billion milestone and a new plant in Plymouth, England was constructed to serve the European markets. Five years later BD moved its corporate headquarters to Franklin Lakes, New Jersey (current HQ location.) Also in 1986, BD acquired Fabersanitas Industrial, a major Spanish syringe manufacturer as well as Deseret Medical, a vascular access devices manufacturer. The last three years of the 1980s also showed growth in Asia (manufacturing facilities in Singapore and Japan.) Furthermore, BD became the first company to introduce a safety-engineered syringe, the BD Safety-Lok (1988), and acquired the Beaver Blade Company, a manufacturer of high-quality surgical blades. The first half of the next decade was very important to BD's development. The company opened a central distribution center in Temse, Belgium (1992) and entered India and China (1995). BD also introduced a device that offered needle stick protection following blood-drawing procedures, the BD Vacutainer Safety-Lok Blood Collection Set.\n\nIn 1999, as BD passed more than 100 years of presence in the medical devices industry, BD announced its new corporate identity. Numerous independent brand names were replaced by a single name: BD. In addition, the company symbol that is used today was introduced. BD also named Edward J. Ludwig as the company's president. Ludwig was also named Chief Executive Officer (2000) and Chairman of the Board of Directors (2002). On February 9, 1999, BD announced the acquisition of Biometric Imaging, Inc. (BMI), a privately held company serving the transfusion medicine, infectious diseases, and oncology markets. On December 20, 2000, BD signed an agreement to acquire Gentest Corporation, a privately held company serving the life sciences market in the areas of drug metabolism and toxicology testing of pharmaceutical candidates. During that time, BD also got heavily involved in global health issues announcing a five-year maternal and neonatal tetanus worldwide elimination partnership with UNICEF (1999), launching the BD Safety Compliance Initiative (2000), and pledging $1 million contribution to the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (2002.) In 2003 and 2004, BD introduced several innovative products: BD FACSAria Cell Sorter—the first entirely new instrument in the next-generation portfolio of flow cytometers (2003), BD Accuspray—a nasal drug delivery system for administering vaccines (2003), BD.id—a patient identification system designed to limit the potential for medical errors in specimen collection (2003), and the world's first \"intelligent\" insulin pump and glucose monitoring system, a wireless system consisting of a Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm 512 Insulin Pump and Paradigm Link Blood Glucose Monitor, co-developed with BD. In the beginning of the 21st century BD also invested in growing its business by acquiring several strategically important companies. In 2001, it acquired the Gentest Corporation, a leading in drug metabolism and toxicology testing company. In 2004, BD completed the acquisition of Atto Bioscience Acquired, a company specializing in optical instrumentation, software, and reagents for real-time analysis of interactions taking place in living cells. In 2005 BD entered the field of proteomics through its acquisition of FFE Weber GmbH, which specialized in the separation and fractionation of complex proteins. 2006 was also an important year to document BD's growth as the company acquired GeneOhm Sciences—a leader in the development of molecular diagnostic testing for the rapid detection of bacterial organisms and TriPath Imaging, a cancer diagnostics company.\n\nFor the fiscal year 2017, Becton Dickinson reported earnings of US$1.030 billion, with an annual revenue of US$12.093 billion, an increase of 10.5% over the previous fiscal cycle. Becton Dickinson's shares traded at over $192 per share, and its market capitalization was valued at over US$63 billion in November 2018.\nBecton Dickinson is divided into two business segments, namely BD Medical (52% of FY 09 revenues) and BD Life Sciences (44% of FY 09 revenues)\n\nThe BD Medical segment consists of three divisions or units, namely Medical & Procedural Solutions, Pharmaceutical Systems, and Diabetes Care. The products of this segment include: needles and syringes, intravenous catheters, safety-engineered and auto-disable devices, prefillable drug delivery systems, prefilled IV flush syringes, insulin syringes and pen needles, regional anesthesia needles, and trays. This segment primarily sells to: hospitals and clinics, physicians' office practices, consumers and retail pharmacies, governmental and nonprofit public health agencies, pharmaceutical companies, and health care workers.\n\nBD Life Sciences consist of three divisions or units, namely Preanalytical Systems, Diagnostic Systems, and Biosciences. BD Life Sciences specializes in the design, production, and sales of the following products: integrated systems for specimen collection, safety-engineered blood collection products and systems, automated blood culturing systems, molecular testing systems for sexually transmitted diseases and HAIs, microorganism identification and drug susceptibility systems, liquid-based cytology systems for cervical cancer screening, rapid diagnostic assays, and plated media. Customers of this division include: hospitals, laboratories and clinics, reference laboratories, blood banks, health care workers, public health agencies, physicians' office practices, and industrial and food microbiology laboratories.\n\nBD Biosciences designs, manufactures, and sells fluorescence-activated cell sorters and analyzers, monoclonal antibodies, and kits for cell analysis, reagent systems for life science research, cell imaging systems, laboratory products for tissue culture and fluid handling, and cell culture media supplements for biopharmaceutical manufacturing. BD Biosciences serves the following customers: research and clinical laboratories, academic and government institutions, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, hospitals, and blood banks. The company's line of plastic conical screwtop test tubes, known as 'Falcon tubes', is popular and the term is sometimes used as a generic term for such tubes.\n\nAs a large global company in the health care industry, BD has the potential to affect the health and life of many people around the world.\n\nBD has actively donated cash, product, and expertise to non-profit and educational organizations worldwide. In recent years, it formed philanthropic and charitable partnerships with the following organizations: UNICEF, American Red Cross, U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, Stop TB Partnership, Global Business Coalition on Health (GBCHealth), AmeriCares, International AIDS Vaccine Initiative, Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics, Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, Project HOPE, Direct Relief International, Accordia Global Health Foundation, Columbia University, and University of Virginia. BD has also donated millions to Fairleigh Dickinson University (of which BD co-founder Dickinson was a benefactor and namesake), in support of the Henry P. Becton School of Nursing and Allied Health (named for the son of BD's co-founder, also a BD executive), along with other FDU programs.\n\nAs of February 2010, BD was ranked 18th in the EPA Fortune 500 List of Green Power Purchasers. BD was also listed among the top 100 companies in Newsweek's 2009 Green Rankings ranking of the 500 largest American corporations based on environmental performance, policies, and reputation. BD placed third in the health care sector and 83rd overall. In addition, BD has been a component of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index for the four and five consecutive years, respectively.\n\nIn mid-2007, the firm's Discardit II series of syringes numbered 0607186 was withdrawn from hospitals and other medical services around Poland, about half a year after the discovery of remains of dark dust in some syringes, which were alleged to have been from this series. The newspaper Dziennik Online claimed that other series such as 06022444, 0603266, and 0607297 were also suspected of being contaminated. BD recalled and tested the syringes in question, and revealed sterile particulates in 0.013 percent of the products. Legal proceedings related to the incident started in December 2006. According to an article published in Dziennik on Monday, 21 April 2008, the prosecutor's office in Lublin discontinued the inquiry, because the disposable syringes were not dangerous.\n\nIn February 2010 BD announced a voluntary product recall of certain lots of BD Q-Syte Luer Access Devices and BD Nexiva Closed IV Catheter Systems. BD stated that the use of the affected devices may cause an air embolism or leakage of blood and/or therapy, which may result in serious injury or death. The approximately 2.8 million BD Q-Syte and 2.9 million BD Nexiva units containing 5 million BD Q-Syte devices that were recalled were distributed in the United States, Asia, Canada, Europe, Mexico, the Middle East, South Africa, and South America. The recall was initiated on Oct. 28, 2009 after BD received complaints of problems due to air entry through a part of the device. BD stated that the cause of the problem was manufacturing deviation and claimed that it corrected the problem. BD announced that it notified customers about the recall by letter and has been working with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and worldwide health agencies to coordinate recall activities.\n\nIn April 2016, the Occupational Safety and Health and Administration fined BD $112,700 for safety violations. They found repeat and serious violations of health and safety law that had resulted in two employees having partial finger amputations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3550041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3550041", "title": "Bob Weston (guitarist)", "text": "Bob Weston (guitarist)\n\nRobert Joseph Weston (1 November 1947 – circa 3 January 2012) was a British rock guitarist, who was a member of Fleetwood Mac in the early 1970s. He also recorded and performed with a number of other musicians, including Graham Bond, Long John Baldry, Murray Head, Sandy Denny and Danny Kirwan.\n\nWeston was born in Plymouth in the county of Devon on 1 November 1947, to a Royal Navy service family. In his childhood he learned to play the violin, switching to the guitar at the age of 12, being influenced by the music of American blues artists such as John Lee Hooker and Muddy Waters. \n\nMoving to London from Devon in the mid-1960s (he retained a soft West Country burr to his voice for the rest of his life), in 1967 he became the lead-guitarist with a mod-beat band called The Kinetic, which was based at the time in Paris, playing as a support act to Jimi Hendrix and Chuck Berry gigs in France. The band signed to the French label Disques Vogue and released into the French market a long-player entitled \"Live Your Life\" (1967), with Weston being the band's principal songwriter, and two EP's, \"Live Your Life\" (1967), and \"Suddenly Tomorrow\" (1967). The \"Suddenly Tomorrow\" EP drew notices in the British music press to the act as having commercial potential, but no more recordings appeared, and it disbanded within a couple of years of its formation. \n\nAfter The Kinetic had broken up, having returned to London from Paris, in April 1968 Weston joined the British blues heavy rock band Black Cat Bones, replacing Paul Kossoff as its lead-guitarist, and played with it until quitting the act at the end of the year. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Weston worked as a guitar for hire, performing and recording with a number of acts of the then in vogue British blues movement, including Graham Bond and Long John Baldry, and touring in continental Europe and America. In 1971 he was performing with the Southern Rock act Ashman Reynolds as its lead guitarist, songwriting and playing on its long-player release \"Stop Off\" (1972).\n\nIn 1972 Weston was resident in Ealing in West London, when he joined the British blues rock band Fleetwood Mac as its co-lead guitarist alongside Bob Welch, as a replacement for the recently dropped Danny Kirwan. The band was aware of Weston's talent having seen him performing when Long John Baldry had regularly shared the same billing at venues with Fleetwood Mac, and when the guitar vacancy had arrived in Fleetwood Mac's line-up Weston was approached by the band with the offer of joining, which he agreed to in September. \n\nIn January 1973 Fleetwood Mac recorded the long-player \"Penguin\", Weston playing the record's distinctive slide guitar on the song \"Remember Me\", and its harmonica and banjo tracks. He also sang a duet with Christine McVie on the song \"Did You Ever Love Me\", and wrote the instrumental that closed the album, titled \"Caught in the Rain\". Later in 1973 the band recorded its next album titled \"Mystery to Me\". Weston contributed more distinctive guitar work, such as the slide intro on the song \"Why\", and co-wrote the song \"Forever\" with Welch and John McVie. In retrospect, Weston felt that his contribution to the band's work in this period did not receive the formal recognition that it deserved.\n\nDuring a tour of the United States of America in 1973, when the band were beginning to gel particularly well in its live performances, it emerged that Weston had started a clandestine romantic relationship with Mick Fleetwood's wife, Jenny Boyd. Fleetwood had got on well before this with Weston, and tried to carry on with the arranged live performance schedule due to the legal and financial penalties that would be incurred by the band for a cancelled tour, but after a gig at Lincoln, Nebraska in October he informed the band in Weston's absence that he was no longer willing to work with him. In consequence the band collectively agreed to drop Weston from the line-up, Weston being told about the decision by the act's tour manager, with the rest of the tour being abandoned by the remaining members. (It was this situation which gave rise to the \"Bogus Fleetwood Mac\" saga in which its manager Clifford Davis hired a new group of musicians, passed them off as Fleetwood Mac, and sent them out to complete the tour). \n\nWeston's involvement in the band had an effect beyond purely the musical, as the spin into which his relationship with Boyd had put it contributed to Bob Welch's departure from its line-up in 1974. This led to a vacancy filled by Lindsey Buckingham and Stevie Nicks, who brought to the band a more mainstream rock sound, which would in the late 1970s-1980s lead to its greater popularity and commercial success.\n\nOn his return to London in late 1973 from the aborted Fleetwood Mac tour, Weston was approached by George Harrison about a possible collaboration, but this did not develop into anything of a practical nature. Weston went on to record and tour in Europe and North America with Murray Head, playing on his second album \"Say It Ain't So\" (1975), for which he co-wrote the song \"Silence Is a Strong Reply\". In July 1975 he joined a newly formed band called the Steve Marriott All Stars, but when Marriott opted to play lead guitar himself, Weston departed in December of the same year, and for the remainder of his career worked primarily as a solo artist or as a session musician. In 1979 he played on Head's third album \"Between Us\". \n\nIn 1979 he wrote and recorded a blues rock album titled \"Nightlight\", which was produced by Alan Callan at Basing Street Studios and at Roundhouse Studio in London, and commercially released the following year through the French record label AZ International. However, with popular taste in music having moved on from the early 1970s, and British blues rock having become a small uncommercial niche market, the record failed to enter the charts. A single, \"Silver Arrow\", was released, but also failed to sell well enough to chart.\n\nIn 1980 he recorded another blues rock album, \"Studio Picks\", at Eel Pie Studios, produced again by Callan, featuring his own material and a cover of the Everly Brothers' \"When Will I Be Loved\". Mick Fleetwood played drums on one track, \"Ford 44\", the first time that he and Weston had worked together since the acrimony of 1973. The record was again released by AZ International in 1981, but like \"Nightlight\" it failed to enter the United Kingdom albums chart, and Weston's contract with the label was subsequently terminated. In 1985 Weston made a foray into mainstream pop music with a standalone single, \"Desire\", released by the French record company Underdog Records, but it also failed to chart and was his last solo commercial record.\n\nWith his career as a solo artist having failed to take off, in the 1980s Weston returned to working as a professional session musician, playing live on tour with a variety of acts, working in London studios, and intermittently in Europe and America. He played on Dick Morrissey's 1986 jazz album \"Souliloquy\", writing one of its songs, and also worked in television music production. He was involved with the soundtrack for the French cinema film \"Diesel\" (1985), and acted as the musical director for the production of the British television film \"Palmer\" (1991).\n\nIn the 1990s he retired from professional music for several years, returning to it at the end of the decade with a self-produced album called \"There's a Heaven\" (1999), which was engineered at Studio 125 in Burgess Hill and released independently. \n\nIn January 2008 Weston announced that he had started working on recording some new material at Markant Studios in the Netherlands. While working there he met Frank Baijens, a Dutch singer-songwriter who was recording his album \"Odd Man Out\" at the studio at the same time, and Weston played on one of the album's songs, \"Where the Heart Belongs\".\n\nIn his last years Weston was resident in North West London, occasionally playing in impromptu sessions at The Duke of Hamilton public house and gigging with a local band called Mad Dog Bites.\n\nWeston, who lived alone in his final years, was found dead in his flat by police officers in Brent Cross in London on 3 January 2012, who had gained entry to the property after his friends had reported concerns over not hearing from him unexpectedly for several days. He was reported to have died on an unknown date from the effects of a gastrointestinal haemorrhage caused by cirrhosis. He was 64 years old.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13946091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13946091", "title": "Bureau Veritas", "text": "Bureau Veritas\n\nBureau Veritas S. A. (formerly BVQI, Bureau Veritas Quality International) is an international certification agency. In addition to certifications, they provide HSE expertise (Health, Safety and Environmental). Today the headquarters are in Neuilly-sur-Seine, nearby La Défense. The company went public on the Paris Bourse in October 2007.\n\nThe organization was originally formed in Antwerp in 1828 as \"Bureau de Renseignements pour les Assurances Maritimes\" (Information Office for Maritime Insurance). The Bureau Veritas name was adopted in 1829.\n\nIn 2013, Bureau Veritas bought the company 7layers. Bureau Veritas also launched in this year a video about its main businesses and its Testing, Inspection and Certification activities. This video won the 2014 TopCom \"Silver Award\" in the External Audiovisual category.\n"}
{"id": "322535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322535", "title": "Chelydridae", "text": "Chelydridae\n\nThe Chelydridae are a family of turtles that has seven extinct and two extant genera. The extant genera are the snapping turtles \"Chelydra\" and \"Macrochelys\". Both are endemic to the Western Hemisphere. The extinct genera are \"Acherontemys, Chelydrops, Chelydropsis, Emarginachelys, Macrocephalochelys, Planiplastron\", and \"Protochelydra\".\n\nThe Chelydridae have a long fossil history, with extinct species reported from North America as well as all over Asia and Europe, far outside their present range. The earliest described chelydrid is \"Emarginachelys cretacea\", known from well-preserved fossils from the Maastrichtian stage of the Late Cretaceous of Montana. Another well-preserved fossil chelydrid is the Late Paleocene \"Protochelydra zangerli\" from North Dakota. The carapace of \"P. zangerli\" is higher domed than that of the recent \"Chelydra\", a trait conjectured to be associated with the coexistence of large, chelonivorous (i.e., turtle-eating) crocodilians. Another genus, \"Chelydropsis\", contains several well-known Eurasian chelydrid species that existed from the Oligocene to the Pliocene. In South America, chelydrids (\"C. acutirostris\") only occupy the northwestern corner of the continent, reflecting their recent arrival from Central America as part of the Great American Interchange.\n\n"}
{"id": "3523296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3523296", "title": "Eye-gouging", "text": "Eye-gouging\n\nEye-gouging is the act of pressing or tearing the eye using the fingers or instruments. Eye-gouging involves a very high risk of eye injury, such as eye loss or blindness. \n\nEye-gouging as a fighting style was once a popular form of sport fighting in the back-country United States, primarily in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.\n\nEye-gouging is prohibited in modern sports. It is a serious offence in rugby football codes where it occurs rarely. It is prohibited in combat sports, but some self-defense systems teach it. Training in eye-gouging can involve extensive grappling training to establish control, the eye-gouging itself being practiced with the opponent wearing eye protection such as swimming goggles. Yuki Nakai went on to win a bout in the Vale Tudo Japan 1995 tournament after his opponent performed an illegal gouge that blinded him in his right eye.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "605510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=605510", "title": "Flower car", "text": "Flower car\n\nA flower car is a type of vehicle used in the funeral industry, used to carry flowers for the burial service, or sometimes to carry the coffin under a bed of flowers. Built on the same commercial chassis as a hearse, the flower car has half-height rear bodywork on the rear similar to a pickup truck bed. The bed contains a liner to hold the flowers, normally built of stainless steel to resist rust. Some flower cars have a raised, flat tonneau cover across the bed at the top, upon which the flowers sit; the center portion sometimes is designed to raise and lower, hydraulically or by hand. If the flower car is designed to carry a casket, it will be stored under the tonneau cover in the space beneath, behind the opening rear gate.\n\nIn the early years of the automobile, open-topped luxury cars were used for this purpose, but as enclosed vehicles became the norm, specially built vehicles began to be used for this purpose from approximately the 1930s onward. Not every funeral provider owned a flower car; they were a luxury item offered as an extra-cost option for extravagant funerals. The quantities built were low; it is estimated that fewer than a dozen were built each year by each coachbuilder in the funeral market.\n\nFlower cars are still manufactured, but in ever decreasing numbers. Old flower cars are considered collectible due to their rarity, especially by collectors of hearses and other \"professional cars\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3867443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3867443", "title": "Food politics", "text": "Food politics\n\nFood politics are the political aspects of the production, control, regulation, inspection, distribution and consumption of food. The politics can be affected by the ethical, cultural, medical and environmental disputes concerning proper farming, agricultural and retailing methods and regulations.\n\nGovernment policies around food production, distribution, and consumption influence the cost, availability, and safety of the food supply domestically and internationally. On a national scale, food policy work affects farmers, food processors, wholesalers, retailers and consumers. Commodity crops, such as corn, rice, wheat, and soy are most often at the heart of agricultural policy-making. While most food policy is initiated domestically, there are international ramifications. Globally, protectionist trade policies, international trade agreements, famine, political instability, and development aid are among the primary influences on food policy. Increasingly, climate change concerns and predictions are gaining the attention of those most concern with ensuring an adequate worldwide food supply.\n\nA number of contemporary issues around food policy issues have surfaced in the United States due to changes in the production of food and concerns about the nutritional quality of commercially prepared foods.\n\nAs with many industries, the food industry has experienced growth in the capacity to produce food with the use of improved technologies. In developed countries, there are a number of important trends at play. Yields, or the amount of food harvested per acre of cropland, have increased less than one percent per year in since at least the 1960s and the amount of land devoted to crop use is in decline due to development pressures for housing and other economic concerns. In the U.S. alone, about 3000 acres of productive farmland are lost each day. This places a premium on quality yields from existing acres of farmland. In addition, the demand for meat products worldwide, expected to double by 2020, has accelerated a trend toward raising more animals on fewer acres of land.\n\nMore intensive forms of animal farming have largely replaced traditional methods of raising pigs, cattle, poultry and fish for human consumption in the U.S. The increased development of Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations have been associated with increased risk of foodborne illnesses from e.coli, environmental degradation, and increased emissions of ammonia, carbon dioxide, and methane into the air. In addition to food safety and environmental concerns, organizations such as the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals and the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) have drawn attention to a range of practices that allow for the more efficient raising of animals for meat consumption, but these practices stress the animals, the land on which they are raised and the supply of food for human consumption. In a recent report on industrialized animal agriculture, HSUS called on people in Western countries to shift to a plant-based diet because half the world's grain crop is used to raise animals for meat, eggs, and milk. Fish farming has also come under scrutiny due to high concentrations of fish in smaller spaces than is experienced in the wild. For both land and water animals, the prophylactic use of antibiotics to promote growth and stem the spread of infection among the animals has also been questioned due to concerns that this practice may contribute to strains of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.\n\nThe use of genetically modified seeds to grow commodity and other crops in the U.S. has drawn criticism from organizations such as Greenpeace, The Non-GMO Project, and the Organic Consumers Association among others. Concerns center on both food safety and the erosion of agricultural biodiversity. While the European Union regulates genetically engineered foods as they would any other new product requiring extensive testing to provide it is safe for human consumption, the U.S. does not. The Food and Drug Administration generally considers a food with origins from genetically modified organisms (GMO) to be as safe as its conventional counterpart. Numerous studies have backed industry claims that GMO foods appear to be safe for human consumption, including an examination of more than 130 research projects conducted in the European Union prior to 2010 and work published by the American Medical Association's Council on Science and Public Health.\n\nIn the U.S., the political debate has centered primarily on whether or not to label products with GMO origins to better inform the public about the content of the foods they purchase. A statewide ballot question that would have mandated labeling of GMO products in California was defeated in 2012. The measure, known as Proposition 37 was leading by a wide margin in early polling but was defeated after an advertising blitz bankrolled by Monsanto, the largest supplier of genetically engineered seeds, Kraft Foods, Coca-Cola, PepsiCo., and other large food business interests. The ballot question's results were closely watched across the country as advocates for the measure hoped that it would pass and spur the federal government to mandate labeling of GMO foods as well. In the wake of the labeling law proposal's defeat, an organization called March Against Monsanto was formed to continue to keep alive the public debate about labeling GMO food products. In 2013, a ballot initiative that would have required labels on GMO foods sold in the state of Washington was defeated by voters, again after a campaign against the initiative was led by major food companies.\n\nAmong the much-heralded impacts of the Green Revolution was the spread of technological advances in the development of pesticides to ensure higher crop yields. Health effects of pesticides have led to a number of regulatory and non-regulatory efforts to control potential harm to human health from these chemicals in the food supply. The US Environmental Protection Agency has jurisdiction of the use of pesticides in crop management and sets tolerances for trace amounts of pesticides that may be found in the food supply. About 12,000 samples of fruits and vegetables available to U.S. consumers are collected each year and tested for residue from pesticides and the results are published in an annual Pesticide Data Program (PDP) hosted by the USDA. The non-profit organization, Environmental Working Group, publishes an annual list called the Dirty Dozen designed to direct consumers’ attention to the fruits and vegetables most contaminated by pesticide residue. In its annual Shopper's Guide to Pesticides, the organization urges shoppers to continue eating fresh produce, but consider purchasing organically grown versions of the 12 most contaminated items.\n\nFood manufacturing and processing is a heavily concentrated industry. The 10 largest food companies in the United States control more than half of all food sales domestically and a growing percentage of packaged food and beverage products on store shelves worldwide. Ranked by food sales, PepsiCo, Inc., is the largest food manufacturer in the U.S., followed by Tyson Foods, Nestlé, JBS USA, and Anheuser-Busch, according to a 2013 list published by \"Food Processing\" magazine. According to figures from the United States Census Bureau from 2007, the most highly concentrated food industries in the country included cane sugar refining, breakfast cereals, bottled water, and cookie/cracker manufacturing using the 4-firm concentration ratio. Consolidation of this industry took place in the 1970s and 1980s through a series of mergers and acquisitions.\n\n\"Big food\" has come under fire not only because a small number of players are responsible for a large percentage of the food supply chain, but because of concerns about the links between the highly processed foods they produce and the obesity epidemic both in the U.S. and worldwide. The director general of the World Health Organization, in a speech given at the 8th Global Conference on Health Promotion in Helsinki, Finland in June 2013, noted that the public health community's efforts to combat chronic diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease are pitted against the economic interests of the powerful food industry. Several studies are exploring processed foods with high concentrations of sugar, refined carbohydrates, fat, salt and caffeine for addictive properties.\n\nMarketing and other strategies of the food industry have been compared to those of the tobacco industry at the height of its influence in the consumer marketplace. In response, the food industry has engaged in some voluntary efforts to improve the nutritional content of their foods. In 2005, General Mills announced a plan to ensure that all of its breakfast cereals contained at least eight grams of whole grain per serving. In 2006, Campbell Soup Company announced an initiative to reduce sodium in its products by at least 25 percent. Due to slumping sales, Campbell's acknowledged that it was adding more sodium back into some of its soups in 2011.\n\nA cultural backlash against an increasingly mechanized food industry has taken a number of different forms.\n\n\nAmong those influential in the food movement in the United States are writers, including Michael Pollan and Marion Nestle, and celebrity chefs such as Alice Waters, Mario Batali and Jamie Oliver. Popular books and movies on contemporary topics in food include Fast Food Nation, The Omnivore's Dilemma and the documentary Food, Inc.. In 2011, the president of the American Farm Bureau Federation referred to this influential group as \"self-appointed food elitists\" and the Washington Post published an op-ed from Eric Schlosser, author of Fast Food Nation, defending the work he and colleagues have done to improve food systems in the United States.\n\nWhile the production and distribution of food is primarily an economic activity, advocates for a variety of social justice concerns are increasingly aware of the role that food policy plays in issues of greatest concern to causes they espouse.\n\nThe interests of varied sectors of the agricultural industry are not always in alignment as illustrated by tensions stemming from a drought in 2012 that affected domestic corn production. Described as the most severe and extensive drought in the U.S. in the last 25 years by the USDA Economic Research Service, thousands of acres of mostly corn and soy fields in the Midwest were damaged or destroyed. This led to increased pressure on the federal government from some domestic farmers and international anti-hunger organizations to relax the Renewable Fuel Standard that call for a portion of the US-grown corn supply to be set aside for ethanol production. Meat and poultry producers, both of whom rely on corn for animal feed and feared rising prices due to the drought conditions, accused the federal government of \"picking winners and losers\" with its ethanol policy while ethanol producers, many of whom are corn farmers, argued that price spikes would affect them as well and that ethanol production had been scaled back.\n\nOffering government food assistance to the lowest income Americans dates back to the administration of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and has continued into the 21st century. In FY 2011, the budget for the USDA Food and Nutrition Service, which is responsible for the major feeding programs, was $107 billion. The largest single food assistance program in the country is the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, the provisions for which are contained in a Farm Bill that is re-authorized by Congress and signed by the president every five years. Benefits to SNAP recipients cost approximately $75 billion in 2012. Largely uncontroversial for most of its history, the SNAP program was targeted for major cuts by members of the House of Representatives in the 2012 Farm Bill re-authorization attempt. House leaders also endeavored to separate the SNAP program from the Farm Bill, splitting the long-standing coalition of urban and rural legislators who traditionally backed the renewals of funding for the Farm Bill every five years.\n\nIncreases in the size of the SNAP caseload during the early 2000s were associated with increases in the unemployment rate and with a number of policy changes made to the program in many states. A series of six measures to better understand employment trends developed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, three of which are more conservative estimates of unemployment and three of which define it more broadly, all showed correlations with SNAP participation. In particular, it was suggested that longer-term unemployment results in the heaviest utilization of SNAP benefits.\n\nIn addition to concerns about the cost of the program from fiscal conservatives, leaders in the movement to improve the nutritional content of the American diet suggested changes to the program to preclude the purchase of sugar-sweetened soft drinks or other forms of junk food with low nutritional value. In fact, the House of Representatives’ version of the initial Food Stamp Act of 1964 prohibited using food stamps for the purchase of soft drinks, but the provision was not adopted. Efforts to more narrowly define the food purchases by SNAP recipients were derided by anti-hunger organizations as a form of paternalism. The 2008 Farm Bill re-authorization established the Healthy Incentives Pilot, a $20 million effort in five states to learn if offering select SNAP recipients credits on purchases of fresh, frozen, canned, or dried fruits and vegetables with no added sugar, salt, fat, or oil will result in increased purchases of these foods. Results of the pilot study were expected in 2014.\n\nIn addition to advocacy work in Washington, D.C., on behalf of those in poverty, public awareness campaigns around the constraints faced by families receiving SNAP were launched. The food stamp challenge or SNAP challenge is one mechanism used by advocates such as Feeding America. Individuals are challenged to restrict food spending for a week to levels typical for families receiving SNAP benefits.\n\nHired farmworkers are among the most economically disadvantaged groups in the United States. Farm labor statistics are published twice yearly by the National Agricultural Statistics Service, a division of the U.S. Department of Agriculture and are compared with similar data from the prior year. In April 2013, the number of workers hired by farm operators was 732,000. Field workers received an average pay of $10.92 per hour and livestock workers earned $11.46 hourly. Average hourly rates for field and livestock work have been on the rise since 1990. Language barriers, fear of deportation, frequent re-locations, and lack of voting status have contributed to difficulties in organizing farm laborers to advocate for wage, benefit, and working condition reforms.\n\nThe agricultural industry's reliance on non-native workers has become part of the political debate over immigration policies and enforcement in the country. United States Department of Labor statistics from 2009 indicated that about 50 percent of hired crop workers were not legally authorized to work in the U.S., a figure that remained largely unchanged over the course of the prior decade. During that same time period, intense debate took place in the nation's capital regarding immigration policies and enforcement. Farm interests, concerned about access to a steady workforce, worked on Capitol Hill to secure their interests in the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act of 2013. Provisions favored by the farm lobby included: \"earned adjustments\" that will allow for temporary legal immigration status based on past experience with the possibility of applying for permanent residency by continuing to work in agriculture for a set period of time; and a more flexible guest worker program for agricultural workers.\n\nIn addition to farm labor, workers in the nation's food service industry garnered attention in 2012 and 2013 with a series of strikes against fast food outlets demanding higher wages, better working conditions, and the right to form unions. A study by the Labor Center at the University of California, Berkeley in October 2013 demonstrated that 52 percent of families of fast-food workers receive public assistance, in comparison to 25 percent of the workforce as a whole. According to the study, full-time hours were not sufficient to compensate for low wages.\n\nIn the past, the denial of food deliveries has been used as a weapon in war. For example, during both world wars, the British naval blockade was intended to starve Germany into submission.\n\nFood security is an important political issue as national leaders attempt to maintain control of sufficient food supplies for their nation. It can drive national policy, encourage the use of subsidies to stimulate farming, or even lead to conflict. This is mostly a national policy because nations have only recognized that there is a negative duty to not disrupt other nations food supply and do not require that one help them attain such secure access by protecting them against other threats.\n\nIn 1974, the World Food Summit defined food security as:\n\n\"There are three traditional routes to national food security: 1) domestic production, which contributes to self-sufficiency; 2) commercial food imports; and 3) international food aid\". Therefore, we need to make it clear that there is a distinction \"between self-sufficiency and food security, in that the former is only one possible route to food security at the national level\". Since 2007/2008, multiple Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) region governments have begun to consider more domestic food production as a part of their national aggregate food security laws. Although from a political view that approach may be justified due to it helping in stabilizing domestic food prices and deducting vulnerability to international markets and reliance on other countries, it comes at an enormous economic cost. This due to the resource endowments of the majority \"of MENA countries—water scarcity and lack of arable land—are not well-suited to food production\", specifically cereal production, and \"these countries’ comparative international advantages lie in other economic activities\". Many of \"the international organizations involved in the MENA economies during the 1990s and the 2000s advocated a food security strategy for most countries\" that based on diversificating away from agriculture towards multiple other activities, \"including manufacturing exports, with the resulting foreign exchange used to purchase food imports\". \"Within the agricultural sector there has also been emphasis on shifting resources into high- value crops that are most efficient in water use, such as fruits, vegetables, and tree crops\", with a view on export markets, in replace of cereal production for domestic consumption.\n\nMalnutrition and starvation continue to be a persistent problem in some areas of the world. The effects of low agricultural output can be exacerbated by internecine struggles, such as the famine conditions that occurred in Somalia during the 1990s. But even under more stable conditions, hunger persists in some nations. Images of starvation can have a powerful influence, leading to charitable and even military intervention.\n\nDuring the late 1990s and early 21st century a significant amount of discussion and debate has developed surrounding the role of supermarkets in the retailing of food and the impacts of supermarkets both on the supply and production of food. Due to the buying power of the large supermarket chains, they can put huge demands on producers, often pushing prices artificially low, whilst still making large profits on the food themselves, with some products selling at over 400% the price paid to, whilst farmers may only make 50p profit on each animal produced domestically. This buying power also allows supermarkets to transcend national boundaries in sourcing food. For example, in the UK, where the food market is highly dominated by supermarkets, only 25% of apples sold in supermarkets are produced domestically, with out-of-season Cox apples being flown 14,000 miles from New Zealand, despite the UK being a natural producer of apples. Furthermore, due to the national nature of the supply networks used by supermarkets, this often involves domestically produced foodstuffs being transported around the country before being delivered to retailers, creating a huge impact both on traffic and pollution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306660", "title": "Frank Eugene Corder", "text": "Frank Eugene Corder\n\nFrank Eugene Corder (May 26, 1956 – September 12, 1994) was an American truck driver. He stole a Cessna 150 late on September 11, 1994 and crashed the stolen aircraft onto the South Lawn of the White House early on September 12, 1994, apparently trying to hit the building; he was killed, and was the sole casualty.\n\nCorder was born in Perry Point, Maryland, the son of William Eugene Corder, who was an aircraft mechanic, and Dorothy Corder. He dropped out of Aberdeen High School in the eleventh grade and enlisted in the Army in October 1974. Corder was stationed at Fort Knox, Kentucky and Fort Carson, Colorado, where he was trained as a mechanic. He was honorably discharged from military service in July 1975 at the rank of private first class. After his service ended, he worked as a truck driver from 1976 until his employment was terminated in early 1993.\n\nOn April 15, 1993, Corder was arrested for theft and was arrested again later that year on October 9 for drug dealing. He was sentenced to spend 90 days at a drug rehabilitation center and was released in February 1994. After he was released, he was living with his third wife Lydia at Keyser's Motel in Aberdeen, Maryland. Lydia Corder left Frank three weeks prior to the incident, which is thought to have driven him towards deep depression and suicide. Friends claim he bore no ill will towards President Bill Clinton and probably only wanted the publicity of the stunt, based largely on his sentiments towards Mathias Rust's flight of a Cessna 172 from Finland to Moscow, USSR. The President was not even in the mansion at the time due to renovations, but was instead staying at Blair House.\n\nCorder stole the Cessna on the night of September 11 and departed from Aldino Airport in Maryland while severely intoxicated, which is presumed to have led to his later miscalculation. The plane was noticed by radar technicians at National Airport several minutes before he tried to steer it into the wall of the White House. At 1:49 a.m., he hit the South Lawn and died on impact.\n\nThe crash caused a re-evaluation in security procedures around the White House, as the pilot had entered restricted airspace. Though the White House is rumored to be equipped with surface-to-air missiles, none were fired. The Secret Service has neither confirmed nor dispelled the rumor.\n\n"}
{"id": "24158050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24158050", "title": "George Rennie (Canadian politician)", "text": "George Rennie (Canadian politician)\n\nGeorge Septimus Rennie (23 July 1866 – 13 October 1930) was a Conservative member of the House of Commons of Canada. He was born in Hamilton, Canada West and became a coroner, physician and surgeon.\n\nRennie attended schools at Hamilton then Toronto where he received his first medical degrees at Toronto's Trinity Medical College. He proceeded to further studies in London where he received the Royal College of Physicians licentiate (LRCP) diploma. He received his LRCS licence at Edinburgh. Rennie studied further at Paris and Vienna.\n\nHe served in the military from 1894 through World War I in a variety of postings, attaining the rank of colonel in 1915. He was appointed a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George in the 1918 New Year Honours for his work with the Army Medical Corps.\n\nHe became the medical director of the Commonwealth Life Insurance Company and surgeon-in-chief of the Toronto, Hamilton and Buffalo Railway. He was also appointed Hamilton's chief coroner.\n\nHe was first elected to Parliament at the Hamilton East riding in the 1926 general election and re-elected there in the 1930 federal election.\n\nDuring his term in the 17th Canadian Parliament, Rennie contracted a severe case of double pneumonia. He died at Hamilton General Hospital on 13 October 1930 after two weeks with this illness.\n"}
{"id": "7261415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7261415", "title": "Ghost train (folklore)", "text": "Ghost train (folklore)\n\nIn ghostlore, a ghost train is a phantom vehicle in the form of a locomotive or train.\n\n\nGhost Train is the name of numerous plays, films, TV series and episodes, albums, songs, and other creative works. Notable examples are listed at Ghost train.\n"}
{"id": "2967040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2967040", "title": "Haecceity", "text": "Haecceity\n\n\"Haecceity\" (; from the Latin \"haecceitas\", which translates as \"thisness\") is a term from medieval scholastic philosophy, first coined by followers of Duns Scotus to denote a concept that he seems to have originated: the discrete qualities, properties or characteristics of a thing that make it a \"particular\" thing. Haecceity is a person's or object's \"thisness\", the individualising difference between the concept \"a man\" and the concept \"Socrates\" (\"i.e.\", a specific person).\n\nHaecceity is a literal translation of the equivalent term in Aristotle's Greek to ti esti (τὸ τί ἐστι) or \"the what (it) is.\"\n\nCharles Sanders Peirce later used the term as a non-descriptive reference to an individual.\n\nHaecceity may be defined in some dictionaries as simply the \"essence\" of a thing, or as a simple synonym for quiddity or hypokeimenon. However, such a definition deprives the term of its subtle distinctiveness and utility. Whereas haecceity refers to aspects of a thing that make it a \"particular\" thing, quiddity refers to the universal qualities of a thing, its \"whatness\", or the aspects of a thing it may share with other things and by which it may form part of a genus of things.\n\nDuns Scotus makes the following distinction:\n\nWhile terms such as haecceity, quiddity, noumenon and hypokeimenon all evoke the essence of a thing, they each have subtle differences and refer to different aspects of the thing's essence.\n\nHaecceity thus enabled Scotus to find a middle ground in the debate over universals between Nominalism and Realism.\n\nThe social construction of reality, ethnomethodology, and conversation analysis are the main streams that elaborated during the 1960s a new kind of sociology—which influenced later sociology, philosophy, and political analysis. Harold Garfinkel is the founder of ethnomethodology, and teacher of Harvey Sacks, one of the founders of conversation analysis. He used the word haecceity in his seminal \"Studies in Ethnomethodology\" (1963), to enhance the indexical inevitable character of any expression, behavior or situation. According to him, the members display the social order they refer to within the settings of the situation they contribute to define. The study of particular situations in their \"haecceity\" — aimed at disclosing the ordinary, ongoing social order that is constructed by the members and their practices — is the object of ethnomethodology.\n\nIn his famous paper generally referred to as \"Parson's Plenum\" (1988), Garfinkel used the term \"Haecceities\" to indicate the importance of the infinite contingencies in both situations and practices.\n\nGarfinkel was drawing on phenomenology and Edmund Husserl, logic and Bertrand Russell, and perception theory and Nelson Goodman. Phenomenology is the field of studying the phenomena as such, and can thus be seen as a contemporary philosophical version of the medieval concept of haecceity.\n\nGilles Deleuze uses the term to denote entities that exist on the plane of immanence. The usage was likely chosen in line with his esoteric concept of difference and individuation, and critique of object-centered metaphysics.\n\nGerard Manley Hopkins drew on Scotus — whom he described as “of reality the rarest-veined unraveller” — to construct his poetic theory of inscape.\n\nJames Joyce made similar use of the concept of haecceitas to develop his idea of the secular epiphany.\n\nJames Wood refers extensively to haecceitas (as \"thisness\") in developing an argument about conspicuous detail in aesthetic literary criticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46308123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46308123", "title": "Hannah Hanson Kinney", "text": "Hannah Hanson Kinney\n\nHannah Hanson Kinney (born Hannah Hanson in 1805) was an American seamstress who was charged with the murder of her third husband, George Kinney in 1840. Arsenic, the alleged murder weapon, was found in Kinney's stomach during an autopsy. Though Kinney was acquitted, public records indicate that Kinney's second husband, Reverend Enoch W. Freeman, and Freeman's father, died of arsenic poisoning years earlier. Public consensus following Kinney's trial deemed her guilty, and she published an autobiography in 1841 to defend herself.\n\nHannah Hanson was born in 1805 in Lisbon, Maine. At seventeen, she met Ward Witham, and they were married in January 1822, in Portland, Maine. After the first few months of their marriage, Hanson was accused by two neighbors, Mr. and Mrs. Weymouth, of stealing their personal items. Witham defended his wife at the time, but later suspected her in the theft when he came to believe that she had been involved in an extra-marital affair. In October 1822, Hanson and Witham moved out of the home they had shared with the Weymouth family. In July 1823, Kinney gave birth to her first child, a daughter. Witham came to suspect Kinney had been involved in an affair during the winter of 1824. In 1825, Hanson gave birth to her second child, a son. In the winter of 1825, Witham worked outside the home gathering lumber. He suspected his wife was involved in a second affair, this time with a young man. Rozilla Moody, a ward of the Witham family, signed an affidavit in 1826 saying she had witnessed another man in the Witham household during the previous winter.\n\nIn 1826, Witham moved Hanson and their two children from Portland to Dover, Maine. Witham moved to Boston on his own, and stayed there for two years. Hanson heard that Witham had begun a new life in Boston as a single man. In 1830, Witham and Hanson exchanged letters confirming that Kinney had no desire to live with her husband again. Later that year, Hanson moved to Boston without her children. In March 1832, Hanson and Witham legally divorced on the grounds of adultery, and full custody of their children was awarded to Hanson. Records at the time of their divorce indicate they had four children in total.\n\nHanson began supporting herself as a seamstress in Boston. She visited her children in Dover several times a year. In July 1832, Hanson visited her cousin, Reverend Enoch W. Freeman, minister of the First Baptist Church in Lowell, MA. It was the first time Hanson had seen Freeman in fifteen years. In 1835, against the wishes of Freeman's congregation, Hanson and Freeman were married. On the first anniversary of their wedding, Freeman grew ill and died. He was thirty-seven years old. Following Freeman's death, Hanson was forced to leave town by the suspicious citizens of Lowell.\n\nHanson returned to Boston and married her third husband, George Kinney on November 26, 1836. Kinney was a known gambler and drunkard, and was five years Hanson's junior. His business collapsed soon after the wedding, and Hanson began supporting her husband and then three children through her work as a seamstress. In 1840, Kinney was treated for syphilis, which he had contracted through a sexual affair with a mistress. On August 9, 1840, Kinney drank a cup of herbal tea and died painfully afterward.\n\nOn August 30, 1840, Hanson was visiting friends in Thetford, Vermont when she was arrested for the murder of George Kinney and transported back to Boston. Hanson was held in prison for four months awaiting trial. According to Hanson's autobiography, she lived in cell number 5 in the common jail. The cause of death on Kinney's autopsy read arsenic poisoning. During the investigation, Rev. Freeman's body was exhumed, and it was revealed on record that his stomach, too, had contained arsenic before his death.\n\nHanson's trial began on December 21, 1840. Hanson's defense attorneys, Franklin Dexter and George T. Curtis, argued that no proof had been found of Hanson purchasing and administering poison to Kinney. The prosecution called a servant who worked in the Kinney household as a witness, and she reported seeing a piece of paper in the kitchen with \"poison\" written on it, but testimony was not concluded to be ample enough evidence to convict Hanson. During the trial, it was confirmed that Kinney had been treated for syphilis immediately before his death, and arsenic was a well-known medication prescribed to treat venereal disease at the time.\n\nDuring the trial, eighteen witnesses were interrogated by the prosecution, including Dr. Martin Gay, a Boston physician who confirmed the presence of arsenic in the late Kinney's stomach, Thomas G. Bradford, a local shopkeeper who sold arsenic but couldn't identify Hanson as a customer, and Mrs. Aurelia Bingham, Hanson's seamstress apprentice. The defense interrogated twenty two additional witnesses, including Earnest H. Cheetham and Thomas Ridley, Boston citizens who described the rumors about Hanson's guilt, Albert G. Leach, Hanson's brother-in-law and Mr. Coolidge, the local jailor who had once imprisoned the late Mr. Kinney for unpaid debts.\n\nOn December 25, 1840, Hannah Hanson Kinney was acquitted of the murder charge and released from prison. The jury took a total of three minutes to deliberate on a verdict. She sold off her millinery shop to cover her late husband's gambling debts, which totaled $2,000. Once the debt was settled, Hanson was left with $89 in total. Hanson's brother-in-law, Albert Leach, who had visited her while in prison, mortgaged his horse and carriage to get Hanson and her three children back on their feet financially.\n\nThe public in Boston and Lowell continued to attribute Kinney and Freeman's deaths to Hanson despite the court declaring her not guilty, and rumors had even begun to attribute the death of Freeman's father to Hanson as well. Hanson's father-in-law, Mr. Freeman had died suddenly while Hanson and Freeman had been visiting him following their wedding. In 1841, Kinney published her autobiography, \"A Review of the Principal Events of the Last Ten Years in the Life of Mrs. Hannah Kinney: Together with Some Comments upon the Late Trial, Written by Herself\" to combat rumors of her guilt. In response, her ex-husband Ward Witham, published a biography of Hannah, entitled \"Life of Mrs. H. Kinney, for Twenty Years\" in 1842. He accused her of adultery and slander, but publicize an opinion on the murder trial.\n\nIn 1868, \"The Republican,\" a Springfield, Massachusetts newspaper, mentioned Hannah Hanson as \"Hannah Kinney, supposed to have poisoned the Rev Mr Freeman, her second husband, as well as Kinney, her third.\" \"The Spectator\" compared Hanson to other women who had infamously used poison or violence to murder men, including Madame LeFarge and Mrs. Cutts of England.\n\nIn 1989, a publication on New England genealogical records argued that Hanson had attempted to convince the doctors conducting Kinney's autopsy to cite cholera as the cause of death.\n"}
{"id": "27763413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27763413", "title": "Howard Martin", "text": "Howard Martin\n\nHoward Martin (born 1935) is a former British doctor who was prosecuted for the murder of three patients in 2005 but acquitted. In June 2010, after being struck off the medical register by the General Medical Council for hastening the deaths of 18 patients, he admitted in a newspaper interview bringing forward the deaths of two patients, including his terminally ill son.\n\nMartin qualified in 1957 and went on to work as a doctor in the British army for 18 years before he became a general practitioner in 1977 and worked in Newton Aycliffe, England. He now lives in Penmaenmawr, Wales. In 2004 the police opened an investigation into his activities after relatives voiced concern regarding the manner of patients' deaths.\n\nIn 2005 Martin was prosecuted for the deaths of three patients: Harry Gittins, 74, Stanley Weldon, 74, and Frank Moss, 59, all from County Durham. The trial lasted six weeks. Weldon had his life shortened by \"two hours\" according to the prosecution when Martin gave him a terminal dose of painkillers. Police put down the failure to convict to the fact that Martin chose to remain silent during the proceedings meaning cross-examination was impossible.\n\nIn 2007 an inquest was also held into the death of William Kerr, 84. His remains had been exhumed as part of the 2004 investigation into Martin. An open verdict was reached due to the advanced state of the body's decomposition.\n\nOn 18 June 2010 a General Medical Council hearing struck Martin off the medical register for hastening the deaths of 18 patients in what the hearing described as \"despicable and dangerous\" conduct. Panel chairman Professor Brian Gomes da Costa also said that \"Dr Martin's actions were indicative of an autocratic attitude, in that he seemed always to consider that he was right; and rejected, or did not seek, the views of others. He repeatedly broke the trust to which patients are entitled; this is unjustifiable.\"\n\nIn 2010 Martin gave a series of interviews to Britain's \"Daily Telegraph\" newspaper about his treatment of patients. In these interviews, he claimed there had been a prosecution \"vendetta\" against him and that all he had done was try to ease the pain of his patients. He admitted shortening the life of some patients, often without their express permission, but denied committing murder. He also admitted helping his terminally ill son to die. The Crown Prosecution Service stated that it would look into his statements to see if a new prosecution was warranted. Martin told the \"Daily Telegraph\", \"They can come after me if they like. But I’m nearly 76 now and will be 77 or 78 by the time anything happens. I am an old man. Whatever they try to do to me, my conscience is still clear.\"\n\nIn the interviews, Martin rejected any similarity to the case of Harold Shipman, and listed the differences between them:\n\n\nIn February 2011 the CPS decided not to prosecute Martin for the deaths.\n\nMartin has claimed that he is not an advocate of euthanasia, instead being concerned with patients' dignity in death. He said in June 2010, \"It’s not playing God to tend to people’s need with compassion and to let them have dignity.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27662061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27662061", "title": "Iron Man (Ultimate Marvel character)", "text": "Iron Man (Ultimate Marvel character)\n\nIron Man (Antonio \"Tony\" Stark) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is the Ultimate Marvel version of the fictional superhero Iron Man that first appeared in the fourth issue of \"Ultimate Marvel Team-Up\", written by Brian Michael Bendis and drawn by Mike Allred. He later appeared in the Ultimates and often appears in the same titles they do. In the Ultimate Universe, the character is a wealthy business tycoon and inventor who created the Iron Man power armor. Like his mainstream counterpart, he has a drinking problem and life-threatening affliction; in this case an inoperable brain tumor. With a life expectancy anywhere between six months and five years, he chose to become a philanthropist and superhero. \n\nWhile the character hasn't yet been featured in his own ongoing series, Stark's early life and origins were initially explored in the \"Ultimate Iron Man\" miniseries written by science fiction author Orson Scott Card. However, this origin story is no longer considered canon in the Ultimate Marvel Universe and was retconned as only being a fictional Japanese anime version. On the other hand, the character's adult years have been covered mainly by Mark Millar (in his \"Ultimates\" work) and Warren Ellis.\n\nIn the limited series \"The Ultimates\", when Tony Stark first hears that Nick Fury is assembling a team of superheroes, he volunteers his services. After helping defeat the Hulk, Stark develops a friendship with Thor and Steve Rogers. Though he has many great accomplishments, during the first volume of the Ultimates, he remains unsure of himself, clearly shown when he's heavily beat down and throws up in his own helmet. He acts arrogant, but also constantly doubts his own abilities. In the last issue he seems to decide that he can't continue fighting until a soldier asks, \"If you don't do it, who will?\". Later, he fights against the X-Men in \"Ultimate War\", captures the Rhino in \"Ultimate Spider-Man\", and fights along with Spider-Man himself in the \"Ultimate Six\" storyline.\n\nStark also appears in \"Ultimate Wolverine vs. Hulk\", where he supports Wolverine being sent to kill Bruce Banner. Stark also criticizes the law being used to stop the Hulk, during which he mockingly suggests creating a Superhero Registration Law referencing the mainstream Stark's support of the Superhero Registration Act. The \"Ultimate Galactus trilogy\" also shows the first signs of an early friendship between Stark and Reed Richards (despite the age difference), in addition to him successfully sneaking aboard a Kree spacecraft in \"Ultimate Secret\", and decapitated a Silver Surfer clone in \"Ultimate Extinction\".\n\nIn \"The Ultimates 2\", Tony Stark quickly falls in love and proposes to Natasha Romanova. Just prior to proposing, Stark gives her a black suit of armor, almost identical to his own. The flight test of the suit includes flying over her homeland, where Stark had paid the three million inhabitants of her hometown to stand in a field, spelling out his proposal, which she immediately accepts. When the Liberators invade America, Natasha shoots Edwin Jarvis and then tries to get Stark, at gunpoint, to transfer much of his fortune to her. However, Stark has ultimate control of the nanites in her bloodstream that allows her to interface with her armor. Using these nanites, Stark incapacitates Romanova and retrieves the enemy plans from her mind with the intention of fighting back against the Liberators. He takes \"Iron Man 6\", a massive helicarrier-sized ship armed with dozens of laser cannons and machine guns, and wipes out the air force of the Liberators in Washington, D.C. (as well as his opposite Liberator number Crimson Dynamo). He then heads to New York to aid the heroes there. After the battle Stark agrees to finance the now independent Ultimates, and seemingly very quickly gets over Natasha's betrayal with the help of a pretty blonde.\n\n\"Ultimate Power\" marks the first appearance of the independent Ultimates, fighting against an alternate universe Squadron Supreme. This soon follows with the start of \"Ultimates 3\" which sees Stark becoming a full-blown alcoholic. A sex tape that he made with Natasha during their time together also makes it into the public, causing a PR nightmare for the rest of the Ultimates. In \"Ultimate Human\", which was published around the same time, the focus is on Bruce Banner as he pleads with Stark to cure him of his Hulk affliction just before \"Ultimatum\", which dealt with Magneto's attempt at complete destruction.\n\nAfter \"Ultimatum\", the \"\" mini-series featured Iron Man racing across the world to find his stolen armor in order to save the remains of his enterprise. In \"\", he began a relationship with Carol Danvers and fought against the returning Loki. In the pages of \"\", he was also involved with Captain America and Thor in training Spider-Man to become a better hero. During this time, his brother became the new financial manager for the new team in \"\", which also featured Rhodey (Tony's former best friend) and a new Black Widow.\n\nIn \"\", Tony Stark is among the central characters and a leading member of the Ultimates. In \"The Republic is Burning\", he saves a now mortal Thor from the destruction of Asgard. With his Asgardian brethren exterminated by the Children of Tomorrow and Yggdrasil drained of the Odinforce, Thor is no longer a God and Stark takes it upon himself to help Thor resume his role as a God of Thunder. He reveals that he has been keeping Thor's harness and hammer (pieces of EUSS technology that gave him his powers in \"The Ultimates\" and \"The Ultimates 2\") and gives it back to the mortal Thor, with some modifications. Stark joins Nick Fury's latest Ultimates roster alongside Thor, Spider-Woman, Hawkeye, Black Widow and Falcon.\n\nFollowing the reunification of the United States, Tony Stark builds a new red-white-and-blue version of his Iron Man armor and goes by the name \"Iron Patriot\". The armor is badly damaged in a confrontation with the Dead Hand Hydra terrorist group, and is later cut in half during repairs by Black Knight.\n\nFollowing the establishment of the mutant nation of Utopia, Tony Stark is appointed as a liaison between Utopia and the United States by President Steve Rogers. Within Utopia, Stark assumes the role of business affairs and military consultant for the fledgling nation. With Kitty's help, he fakes an explosion in one of Utopia's greenhouses that seemingly destroys the 'super seed' developed by the mutants. Later he promises Kitty that once the attention has shifted away from Utopia, he will start releasing the seeds through back channels and have them freely distributed in accordance to Kitty's wishes.\n\nWhen Maker collaborated with High Evolutionary to destroy the Superflow that kept the different universes separate in order to merge them into one reality, the Ultimates members Captain America, Iron Man, Giant-Man, Wasp, and Hulk were revived where they were to help Eternity fight the First Firmament. When Earth-616's version of the Ultimates arrived on Counter-Earth to confront Maker about his actions, he ordered the Earth-1610 Ultimates to attack. As both versions of Ultimates concluded that there is no reason to fight each other, Maker killed the Earth-1610 Captain America for disobeying his orders. Upon Maker being defeated, both Ultimates helped Eternity to defeat the First Firmament. Afterwards, Ultimate Iron Man and the remaining members of the Earth-1610 Ultimates left to pursue Maker.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Wars\" storyline, a variation of Ultimate Iron Man resides on the Battleworld domain known as the Kingdom of Manhattan where he co-exists with a variation of his Earth-616 counterpart.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18376526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18376526", "title": "Jangnye", "text": "Jangnye\n\nJangnye refers to Korean funerary rites. \"Jangnye\" has been practiced since the book \"The Family Rituals of Zhu Xi\" (朱子家禮, \"Zhuzi jiali\") was introduced from China during the Joseon Dynasty. Rulers during the era wanted to erase the Buddhist ceremonies of the previous dynasty, Goryeo, and to replace them with the ceremonies of Confucianism.\n\nChinese philosopher, Zhu Xi's book, \"The Family Rituals of Zhu Xi\" regulated domestic rituals such as weddings, births, funerals and memorial services. Even though it was accustomed with Chinese culture, it wasn't so for the Joseon society. Yi Jae (李栽, 1680~1746) wrote \"Sarye pyeollam\" (\"Easy Manual of the Four Rites\") to supplement The Family Rituals of Zhu Xi. Domestic ceremonies, including \"jangnye\", were always performed according to this book.\n\nGenerally, \"jangnye\" is performed for three days and nights. If a person is dead, the body will be laid in a coffin after two days and buried during the morning of the third day. Before laying the body in a coffin, a person dealing with the body cleans it and puts on the grave clothes made of hemp. In Korea, it is common for a person in their sixties to prepare grave clothes.\n\nCondolers pay a visit to a bereaved family; a chief mourner expresses his sorrow by \"Gok\", which is similar to crying.\n\nUsually in the morning of the third day, the bereaved family head for their family burial mountain. They dig the ground, put the coffin in it, and build a mound over the grave. It comes to an end with \"jesa\", which is a Korean traditional memorial service. The \"jangnye\" ceremony is usually held as a burial instead of a cremation. It comes from the Confucian idea that one should not impair the ancestor's bodies but preserve them.\n\n\"Jangnye\" has evolved since its formation. It was a burial ceremony in the era of Three Kingdoms and has changed into a cremation influenced by Buddhism in Goryeo Dynasty. During the Joseon Dynasty, all rules, principles, and ideologies were affected by Confucianism. Since this era, typical Korean Jangrae procedure has been established as a burial. Since the 17th century, Catholicism and Christianity has been introduced in Korea and has influenced it. One Korean method for cremation is Jayeonjang (자연장), which is practiced by scattering the bone ashes on a garden, a tree, or the water.\n"}
{"id": "18816479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18816479", "title": "Julius Ellsberry", "text": "Julius Ellsberry\n\nJulius Ellsberry (August 22, 1921 – December 7, 1941) was an American killed during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. He was the first Alabamian killed in World War II, and one of the first Americans to die in the Pacific during World War II. He was killed while aboard .\n\nEllsberry was born in Birmingham, Alabama and was a 1938 graduate of Parker High School.\n\nEllsberry enlisted in the United States Navy in 1940, and was serving aboard the USS \"Oklahoma\" (BB-37) as a Mess Attendant First Class when it was bombed by Japanese planes in the surprise attack on December 7, 1941. He and 413 other crewmen were killed aboard the battleship. He was awarded a posthumous Purple Heart in honor of his sacrifice.\n\nA Navy press release followed shortly after the announcement of Ellsberry's death describing the heroism of another black seaman, then unidentified. Mess Attendant Second Class Doris Miller assumed control of a deck gun on the USS West Virginia (BB-48) after the gunner was killed and helped defend the ship. Media reports at the time often credited Ellsberry with Miller's heroism and the misidentification still sometimes persists.\n\nThe \"Birmingham World\" labeled Ellsberry \"the Crispus Attucks of World War II\". Birmingham's Black community raised over $300,000 in war bond purchases toward the completion of a B-24 Liberator named \"The Spirit of Ellsberry\".\n\nBirmingham's Ellsberry Park near Finley Boulevard north of downtown was dedicated in his honor in 1979. A marker honoring Ellsberry's sacrifice has also been erected in Kelly Ingram Park, which is named for fellow Navy veteran and Birmingham native Osmond Kelly Ingram, the first American killed in World War I.\n\n"}
{"id": "5244308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5244308", "title": "Larry Hillblom", "text": "Larry Hillblom\n\nLarry Lee Hillblom (May 12, 1943 – May 21, 1995) was an American businessman, and a co-founder of the shipping company DHL Worldwide Express.\n\nLarry Hillblom was born on May 12, 1943, and raised in Kingsburg, California.\n\nDuring his youth, he went to the Concordia Lutheran Church and attended Kingsburg High School. He attended Reedley College and Fresno State, eventually earning a law degree at the University of California, Berkeley's Boalt Hall School of Law and briefly clerked for San Francisco based attorney Melvin Belli.\n\nIn December 1969, Matson Navigation Co. introduced new container ships (Hawaiian Enterprise Class) into its Hawaii cargo service. They were considerably faster than the older ships they replaced, and they saved several days off the crossing time from the US west coast to Hawaii. But with these faster vessels, the shipping documents could not be delivered by U.S. Postal Service to their Hawaii customers before the arrival of the goods.\n\nLarry Hillblom approached Matson and told them that he could get their documents delivered in time. He did this by purchasing tickets for airline passengers who could take 350 pounds of accompanied baggage, and sending the Matson shipping documents with them. Other Hawaii companies with time-sensitive documents learned about and started to use the service.\n\nIn 1969 Hillblom co-founded DHL; the company was later transformed into a general air courier, and Hillblom's wealth expanded to several billion dollars. In the 1980s he moved to Saipan, where he started several businesses and development projects in Hawaii, Vietnam, and the Philippines.\n\nIn Vietnam, he spent US$40 million to restore the Dalat Palace Hotel and its golf course. Other investments included the Novotel Dalat, Novotel Phan Thiet, Ocean Dunes Golf Course, and the Riverside Apartments outside Ho Chi Minh City. The investment was made via an overseas holding company to avoid an American embargo against Vietnam. The Dalat Palace Hotel opened in 1995 under Hillblom's and his Vietnamese partners' ownership with management personnel provided by Accor.\n\nHillblom was an aircraft enthusiast and owned a number of vintage planes. His seaplane crashed on May 21, 1995, on a flight from Pagan Island to Saipan. The bodies of the pilot, Robert Long, and a business partner were found, but Hillblom's body was never recovered.\n\nHillblom's will stated that the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) would receive his estate, and did not specify any children in the 1982 will. There was no \"disinheritance clause\" in the will, which caused controversy. After his death, Hillblom's estate was the subject of lawsuits from children fathered across the Pacific. According to Saipan law, illegitimate children born after a will has been drawn up are entitled to make a claim on the estate.\n\nWomen and underage girls from several Asian and Pacific countries made claims that he had deflowered them by committing statutory rape on them and was the father of their illegitimate children. Kaylani Kinney, the first woman to come forward, claimed to have given birth to a child, Junior Larry Hillblom, fathered by Larry Hillblom. David J. Lujan (Guam), lead legal counsel and co-counsel Barry Israel (Santa Barbara, CA) for Ms. Kinney were responsible for filing the first claim on the Hillblom estate; several women throughout Asia later made similar claims. The law of the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas Islands, where Hillblom was a resident, awarded children, legitimate or not, first right to inheritance, overriding any will. However, since Hillblom's body was not recovered in the crash, there was no DNA that could be used to determine paternity. Mysteriously, his house in Saipan was discovered to have been wiped clean. The sinks had been scrubbed with muriatic acid, and toothbrushes, combs, hairbrushes and clothes were found buried in the backyard, making them useless for DNA testing.\n\nInvestigators discovered he had had a facial mole removed at UCSF Medical Center, and it was still there; UCSF agreed to relinquish the mole (although its release could, of course, deprive UCSF of the estate if it could be used to prove Hillblom had sired children). It was later discovered that the mole was not from Hillblom.\n\nHillblom's mother, brother, and half-brother initially refused to submit their DNA, which could also have been used to determine paternity of the children. David Lujan and co-counsel Barry Israel then dispatched a team of investigators to compare the DNA of all the children suing for claim on Hillblom's estate. Lujan and Israel surmised that since the girls were located in different countries, if the children shared certain DNA markers, the only logical conclusion would be that they would almost certainly have the same father. In the end, a judge ordered Hillblom's brother and mother to submit to genetic testing. The tests confirmed that four of the eight claimants were Hillblom's children.\n\nIt was ultimately determined that a Vietnamese child, Lory Nguyen; Jellian Cuartero, 5, and Mercedita Feliciano, 4, of the Philippines; and Junior Larry Hillblom, of Palau were fathered by Hillblom. In the final settlement, each of the four children received a gross payment of US$90 million, reduced to about US$50 million after taxes and fees, while the remaining US$240 million went to the Hillblom Foundation, which followed Hillblom's wishes and donated funds to University of California for medical research.\n\nA film by Alexis Spraic documenting the controversy that took place after Hillblom's death, titled \"Shadow Billionaire\" was first shown at the 2009 Tribeca Film Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59017152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59017152", "title": "Les Dialogues d’Evhémère", "text": "Les Dialogues d’Evhémère\n\n\" Les Dialogues d’Evhémère \" ('The Dialogues of Euhemerus') is a little-known philosophical dialogue by Voltaire, published in 1777. At the time of its writing he was 83 years old and knew that he was coming to the end of his life: the work is a kind of philosophical testament. Like many other works by Voltaire, it is written in the tradition of Socratic dialogue, where the interlocutors seek the truth together.\n\nThe imagined dialogue takes place between two historical figures, Euhemerus and Callicrates. Euhemerus, a Stoic, was a contemporary of Alexander the Great, remembered mostly for his view that the Classical Greek gods had originally been people, deified long after their deaths by their followers. Callicrates was also a philosopher, from the third century BC, of whom little is known but whom Voltaire makes an Epicurean. His views, including atheism, are meant to represent the views of Voltaire's contemporaries Holbach, La Mettrie and Diderot.\n\nIn the dialogue as in historic reality Euhemeros had enjoyed a life of travel, much of it following Alexander; Callicrates is curious to know what his friend has learned as a result of these experiences. The conversations that follow are set out in twelve dialogues:\n\nThere are two main themes in the dialogues. The first six consider metaphysical questions such as whether we have a soul, whether God exists and, if he does, who is responsible for all the misery on earth. And the last six dialogues are about natural philosophy and the material world - what we know about the cosmos, the earth, the creation of mountains, and the generation of new life. What all the dialogues have in common is an appeal for modesty and restraint in argument. There is little we can undubitably know and much is hidden from us. For this reason, whatever we may believe, we should never ignore evidence or assumptions from outside the universe of our beliefs; rather than proclaiming dogmas we should engage in dialogue. At the same time, Euhemerus is unsparing in his attacks on atheists, atomists and materialists as well as on religious dogma - all of which he terms 'madness, misery and crime'.\n\nThe dialogues offer an overview of Voltaire's life of thought. Euhemerus is effectively Voltaire's mouthpiece; he has seen the follies, delusions and misery of mankind. Much of the dialogue focuses on paradox of God's goodness and the misery on earth. Euhemerus draws hope from scientific progress that points to a future world built on rationality. Eventually Callicrates decides to embark on a journey of his own to the barbarian lands from which his friend had learned so much.\n\nVoltaire's 94-page autographed manuscript still survives (pages 37–40 are not in his hand). However Voltaire's surviving correspondence makes no reference to the work, its development, or the ideas it elaborates. Likewise Grimm does not mention it. The \"Mémoires secrets\" from November 1777 did refer to the work however, and a comment from Jean-Louis Wagnière indicated that the \"Dialogues\" had been published only shortly before.\n\nOver the course of his life Voltaire had had his works condemned or banned by royal censors in France on many occasions. He also had a number of ways of avoiding censorship - including arranging for his work to be printed outside France, and having it printed anonymously so he could deny authorship. Indeed, the presentation of challenging or radical ideas in the form of a dialogue was one method of bringing unconventional ideas to public attention while being less likely to have the word altered or suppressed.\n\nThe frontispiece of the first known edition of the \"Dialogues d'Evhémère\" indicates that it was published in London by Voltaire not in 1777 as suggested by the \"Mémoires secrets\" but in 1779 (i.e. the year after Voltaire's death), but does not name a publisher. In fact it is evident from the distinctive typography used that it was printed not in London but in Lausanne, by Abraham-Louis Tarin, who worked for the publisher François Grasset. Grasset is noted for having previously published a number of works attacking Voltaire as well as for having on several occasions clashed with him over the intended publication of Voltaire's works from unauthorised manuscript versions.\n\n"}
{"id": "40889432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40889432", "title": "Leviton (quasiparticle)", "text": "Leviton (quasiparticle)\n\nA leviton is a collective excitation of a single electron within a metal. It was first published in the journal Nature in 2013. Levitons have been described in graphene.\n"}
{"id": "19840071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19840071", "title": "List of New Zealand police officers killed in the line of duty", "text": "List of New Zealand police officers killed in the line of duty\n\nThis is a list of New Zealand Police officers killed in the line of duty. As of 2009, 29 police officers have been killed by criminal act, and about 17 have died from accidental causes, during the execution of duty. There has been one instance of multiple police deaths, when Stanley Graham gunned down four officers attempting to apprehend him in 1941, and four double fatalities. Most of the homicides have been a result of gunshot wounds, the accidents mainly due to either drowning or vehicle (car/aircraft) accidents.\n\nA slain officer may receive a police funeral, including an honour guard and flag-draped casket, and be officially mourned in the New Zealand House of Representatives. At least four officers have received posthumous honours—Sergeant Stewart Guthrie received the highest Commonwealth civilian decoration, the George Cross. The Lou Grant Award, created in the memory of the police sergeant who died in the 1993 Eagle helicopter mid-air collision, is awarded every second year for excellence and contributions to search and rescue.\n\nThe Memorial Wall at The Royal New Zealand Police College lists the names of fallen colleagues, whom the service commemorates annually on Police Remembrance Day. The Police Association together with the New Zealand Police introduced a Police Remembrance Day Pin in 2007, for officers to wear to honour the memory of those slain during the course of duty. The pin combines a Huia tail feather with a police chevron; the Huia bird was sacred in Māori culture, wearing of its feathers restricted to people of high status.\n\nIn addition to the human officers, 24 police dogs have died in the line of duty; notably the drowning of Enzo in 2007, Gage, a six-year-old German Shepherd, in 2010. In 2016, 4 year old German Shepherd Gazza was shot and killed in Porirua.\n\nSince 1 September 1886.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9487712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9487712", "title": "Maria Leopoldine of Austria", "text": "Maria Leopoldine of Austria\n\nMaria Leopoldine of Austria-Tyrol (6 April 1632 – 7 August 1649), was by birth Archduchess of Austria and member of the Tyrolese branch of the House of Habsburg and by marriage the second spouse of her first cousin, Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand III. As such, she was Empress of the Holy Roman Empire, German Queen and Queen consort of Hungary and Bohemia. She died in childbirth.\n\nMaria Leopoldine was born in Innsbruck on 6 April 1632 as the third (but second surviving) daughter and the fifth and youngest child of Leopold V, Archduke of Further Austria, and Claudia de' Medici. She was born posthumously, because her father died two months before her birth, on 13 September 1632. On her father's side, her grandparents were Charles II, Archduke of Inner Austria and his wife Princess Maria Anna of Bavaria and on her mother's side her grandparents were Ferdinando I de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany and his wife Princess Christina of Lorraine. In addition to her full-siblings, she had and older half-sister, Vittoria della Rovere, born from her mother's first marriage with Federico Ubaldo della Rovere, Duke of Urbino.\n\nMaria Leopoldine's oldest brother, Ferdinand Charles, inherited Further Austria, but Dowager Archduchess Claudia assumed regency because of her son's minority. In a letter written to his mother, Elizabeth of England, on 8 September 1641, Charles Louis of the Palatinate (later Elector Palatine) described the intentions of his uncle, King Charles I of England, and Maria Leopoldine's first cousin, Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand III, to arrange a marriage between the 9-years-old Archduchess and himself; the marriage between them was to end \"all grudges betweene our families\". However, the union never took place.\n\nIn Linz on 2 July 1648 Maria Leopoldine married the widowed Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand III, thereby becoming empress of the Holy Roman Empire, Queen of the Germans, Queen of Hungary and Queen of Bohemia. The wedding ceremony was splendid; The composer Andreas Rauch celebrated the marriage as \"anticipating (with the help of Divine Providence) the most beautiful end of the Thirty Years' War\" and an opera titled \"I Trifoni d'Amore\", produced by Giovanni Felice Sances, was meant to commemorate the event, but the Prague premiere was canceled at the last moment when King Vladislaus IV of Poland (Ferdinand III's brother-in-law) died within two months of the wedding; the planned Pressburg performance apparently never took place. The new Empress was as closely related to her husband as her cousin and predecessor, Maria Anna of Spain; both marriages were means by which the House of Habsburg, from time to time, reinforced itself.\n\nSoon after her wedding, Maria Leopoldine became pregnant, and was depicted as such in the 1649 painting by the Italian painter and poet Lorenzo Lippi. The Imperial couple's only child, Archduke Charles Joseph of Austria, was born on 7 August 1649. The childbirth was extremely difficult, ending in the death of the 17-year-old Empress. Her husband remarried within two years, while their son died childless aged 14. She is buried in tomb 21 in the Imperial Crypt in Vienna. The writer Wolf Helmhardt von Hohberg, then at the beginning of his career, sent to Emperor Ferdinand III a poem written in honour of the late Empress, called \"Poem of tears\" (de: \"Klag-Gedicht\").\n\n"}
{"id": "8335231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8335231", "title": "Martino Zaccaria", "text": "Martino Zaccaria\n\nMartino Zaccaria was the Lord of Chios from 1314 to 1329, ruler of several other Aegean islands, and baron of Veligosti–Damala and Chalandritsa in the Principality of Achaea. He distinguished himself in the fight against Turkish corsairs in the Aegean Sea, and received the title of \"King and Despot of Asia Minor\" from the titular Latin Emperor, Philip II. He was deposed from his rule of Chios by a Byzantine expedition in 1329, and imprisoned in Constantinople until 1337. Martino then returned to Italy, where he was named the Genoese ambassador to the Holy See. In 1343 he was named commander of the Papal squadron in the Smyrniote crusade against Umur Bey, ruler of the Emirate of Aydin, and participated in the storming of Smyrna in October 1344. He was killed, along with several other of the crusade's leaders, in a Turkish attack on 17 January 1345.\n\nMartino Zaccaria was a scion of the Genoese Zaccaria family. Through his father, Nicolino Zaccaria, he was a nephew to Benedetto I Zaccaria, lord of Chios and of Phocaea on the Anatolian coast. Benedetto I had captured Chios from the Byzantine Empire in 1304, citing the island's vulnerability to Turkish raids. His occupation was acknowledged by the impotent Byzantine emperor, Andronikos II Palaiologos, initially for a period of 10 years, but which was then renewed at five-year intervals. Benedetto died in 1307 and was succeeded in Chios by his son, Paleologo Zaccaria. When he died childless in 1314, the island passed to Martino and his brother, Benedetto II. Chios was a small but wealthy domain, with an annual income of 120,000 gold \"hyperpyra\". Over the next few years, Martino made it the core of a small realm encompassing several islands off the shore of Asia Minor, including Samos and Kos.\n\nAs lord of Chios, Martino and Benedetto fought with distinction against the Turkish pirates, who made their appearance in the Aegean in the early years of the 14th century. In 1304, the capture of Ephesus by the emirate of Menteshe had sparked the Genoese occupation of Chios, and raids against the Aegean islands intensified over the next years. The Emirate of Aydin soon emerged as the chief Turkish maritime emirate, especially under the leadership of Umur Bey, while the Zaccaria, along with the Knights Hospitaller of Rhodes, became the two main Latin antagonists of the Turkish pirates. The Zaccaria are reported to have maintained a thousand infantry, a hundred horsemen and a couple of galleys on constant alert. In 1317, they lost the citadel of Smyrna on the Anatolian coast to the Aydinids, but continued to hold on to the lower city until 1329, when Umur Bey captured it. In 1319, however, Martino Zaccaria participated with seven ships in a Hospitaller fleet that scored a crushing victory over an Aydinid fleet from Ephesus. By the end of his rule on Chios, Martino is said to have taken captive or slain more than 10,000 Turks, and received an annual tribute in order not to attack them. His constant efforts against the Turkish pirates earned him great praise by contemporary Latin writers, who wrote that if not for his vigilance, \"neither man, nor woman, nor dog, nor cat, nor any live animal could have remained in any of the neighbouring islands\". Martino also intervened to stop the slave trade carried out by the Genoese of Alexandria, for which he was praised by Pope John XXII. In exchange, the Pope granted him the right to export mastic to Egypt—an exemption to the papal ban on trade with the Mamluks of Egypt—and proposed that the Zaccaria be given command of the Latin fleets in the Aegean.\n\nMartino's prestige rose further when he also became one of the most important feudatories in the Principality of Achaea. Shortly after 1316, he bought the rights to the Barony of Chalandritsa from Aimon of Rans, although in a document of 1324 it appears that he possessed only half of it, the other being held by Peter dalle Carceri. Martino added to his domains when he married Jacqueline de la Roche, related to the De la Roche dukes of Athens and heiress of the Barony of Veligosti–Damala. Martino's elevated standing was now recognized by Philip II, titular Latin emperor of Constantinople, who in 1325 named him \"King and Despot of Asia Minor\" and gave him as fiefs the islands of Chios, Samos, Kos, and Lesbos—which formed part of the Latin emperors' personal domain by the Treaty of Viterbo—as well as Ikaria, Tenedos, Oinousses and Marmara Island. This award was mostly symbolic, as except for the first three, which the Zaccaria already controlled, the others were in the hands of the Byzantines or the Turks. In exchange, Martino promised to aid with 500 horsemen in Philip's hoped-for, but never to be realized, expedition to recover Constantinople from the Byzantines.\n\nIf these ties to the Latin Emperor provoked displeasure at the Byzantine court, for the time being relations remained good: the lease of Chios was renewed in 1324, and in 1327 Martino took part in alliance negotiations between the Byzantines and the Republic of Venice. At the same time, however, Martino's behaviour became increasingly assertive: ca. 1325 he ousted his brother as co-ruler of Chios and began minting coins in his own name. In 1328, the rise of a new and energetic emperor, Andronikos III Palaiologos, to the Byzantine throne, marked a turning-point in relations. One of the leading Chian nobles, Leo Kalothetos, went to meet the new emperor and his chief minister, John Kantakouzenos, to propose a reconquest of the island. Andronikos III readily agreed. On the pretext of Martino's unauthorized building of a new fortress on the island, the emperor sent him a letter in which he ordered him to cease construction, and to present himself in Constantinople in the next year in order to renew the island's lease. Martino haughtily rejected the demands and accelerated construction, but now his deposed brother Benedetto lodged a complaint with the emperor claiming the one-half share of the island's revenues that was his due. With these events as an excuse, in autumn 1329 Andronikos III assembled a fleet of 105 vessels—including the forces of the Latin Duke of Naxos, Nicholas I Sanudo—and sailed to Chios.\n\nEven after the imperial fleet reached the island, Andronikos III offered to let Martino keep his possessions in exchange for the installation of a Byzantine garrison and the payment of an annual tribute, but Martino refused. He sank his three galleys in the harbour, forbade the Greek population to bear arms and locked himself with 800 men in his citadel, where he raised his own banner instead of the emperor's. His will to resist was broken, however, when Benedetto surrendered his own fort to the Byzantines, and when he saw the locals welcoming them, he was soon forced to surrender. The emperor spared his life, even though the Chians demanded his execution, and took him prisoner to Constantinople. Martino's wife and relatives were allowed to go free with their movable wealth, while most of the Zaccaria adherents chose to stay on the island as imperial officials. Benedetto was offered the island's governorship, but he obstinately demanded to receive it as a personal possession in the same way as his brother had held it, a concession the emperor was unwilling to grant. Benedetto retired to the Genoese colony of Galata, from where a few years later he made an unsuccessful attempt to reclaim Chios; he died soon after. Andronikos III appointed Kalothetos as the new governor of Chios, and followed up his success by sailing to Phocaea, forcing it to acknowledge his suzerainty.\n\nMartino was released in 1337 at the intercession of the Pope and Philip VI of France, and was offered a military command and some castles by the emperor as compensation. He then returned to his hometown, Genoa, and was named the city's ambassador to the Holy See. In September 1343, he was appointed to command the four papal galleys in the crusade against Umur Bey, under the overall command of the titular Latin Patriarch of Constantinople, Henry of Asti. In view of Zaccaria's character, the Pope expressly warned Henry of Asti not to allow him to divert the crusade in a bid to recover Chios, and authorized Henry to replace Zaccaria if he deemed it necessary. The crusade scored a swift and unexpected success: Umur Bey was caught off guard, and the crusaders recaptured the lower town of Smyrna on 28 October 1344. The citadel remained in Turkish hands, however, and the crusaders' position remained precarious. With Venetian aid, they fortified the lower town to enable them to resist Umur's counterattack. The emir bombarded the lower town with mangonels, but the crusaders managed to sortie and destroy them, effectively breaking the siege. To celebrate this feat, Henry of Asti decided, against the advice of the other crusader leaders, to hold mass in the city's former cathedral, which lay in the no-man's-land between the citadel and the crusader-held lower town. The Turks attacked during the service, on 17 January 1345, and killed Zaccaria, Henry of Asti and other crusader leaders present.\n\nMartino Zaccaria married, probably some time before 1325, Jacqueline de la Roche. An earlier conjecture of Karl Hopf about a first marriage to a daughter of George I Ghisi, heir to the lordship of Tinos and Mykonos, has since been discarded.\n\nFrom his marriage, Martino had two sons:\n\n"}
{"id": "43693845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43693845", "title": "Multi-surface method", "text": "Multi-surface method\n\nThe multi-surface method (MSM) is a form of decision making using the concept of piecewise-linear separability of datasets to categorize data.\n\nTwo datasets are linearly separable if their convex hulls do not intersect. The method may be formulated as a feedforward neural network with weights that are trained via linear programming. Comparisons between neural networks trained with the MSM versus backpropagation show MSM is better able to classify data. The decision problem associated linear program for the MSM is NP-Complete.\n\nGiven two finite disjoint point sets formula_1, find a discriminant, formula_2 such that formula_3. If the intersection of convex hulls of the two sets is the empty set, then it is possible to use a single linear program to obtain a linear discriminant of the form, formula_4. Usually, in real applications, the sets' convex hulls do intersect, and a (often non-convex) piecewise-linear discriminant can be used, through the use of several linear programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "21919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21919", "title": "Munkar and Nakir", "text": "Munkar and Nakir\n\nMunkar and Nakir () (English translation: \"The Denied and The Denier\") in Islamic eschatology, are angels who test the faith of the dead in their graves.\n\nThese angels are described as having solid black eyes, having a shoulder span measured in miles, and carrying hammers \"so large, that if all of mankind tried at once to move them a single inch, they would fail\". When they speak, tongues of fire come from their mouths. If one answers their questions incorrectly, one is beaten every day, other than Friday, until God gives permission for the beating to stop. (Source?)\n\nMuslims believe that after a person dies, his soul passes through a stage called barzakh, where it exists in the grave (even if the person's body was destroyed, the soul will still rest in the earth near their place of death). The questioning will begin when the funeral and burial is over. Nakir and Munkar prop the deceased soul upright in the grave and ask three questions: \"Who is your God? What is your religion? What is your faith about this person (Muhammad)?\". A righteous believer will respond correctly, saying that their Lord is God, that Muhammad is their prophet and that their religion is Islam. If the deceased answers correctly, the time spent awaiting the resurrection is pleasant and may enter heaven. Those who do not answer as described above are chastised until the day of judgment in hell.\n\nMuslims believe that a person will correctly answer the questions not by remembering the answers before death (compare with the Egyptian Book of the Dead) but by their iman and deeds such as salat and shahadah (the Islamic profession of faith).\n\nMunkar and Nakir bear some similarity to Zoroastrian divinities. Some of these, such as Mithra, Sraosha and Rashnu have a role in the judgement of souls. Rashnu is described as a figure who holds a set of scales, like some angels of the grave. E.G. Brown has suggested that a continuity exists between Rashnu and Munkar and Nakir. \nA mythical figure in Mandaean religion, Abathur Muzania is similar to Rashnu. He holds the same position in the world of the dead, and also holds a set of scales. \"Muzania\" means scales (mizan) in Aramaic. According to recent research, Munkar and Nakir are originally astrological figures and a transformation of the Mesopotamian astral god Nergal. \nAksoy shows in his new research that the Mesopotamian god Nergal has almost the same characteristics as Munkar and Nakir. He begins with \"Nakru\" which is an epithet of Nergal and means 'enemy'. The Assyrian \"nakru\", like the names Munkar and Nakir, comes from the same root, from the proto-Semitic NKR. Some scholars use a different spelling; \"nakuru\". which is almost the same as Nakir. Moreover, Nergal is a lord of the Underworld and the grave (Assyrian \"qabru\": grave). Like Munkar and Nakir, he has a terrifying voice that can cause panic among men and gods. He holds a shining mace and his breath can burn his enemies. Because he is related to fire most scholars suggest that he was originally a sun god. Furthermore, he is identified with the celestial twins (\"Gemini\") in the Babylonian astral mythology which forms a direct link to Munkar and Nakir.\nThere is no reference to Munkar and Nakir in the Quran. Their names are first mentioned by Tirmidhi in the hadith tradition. Tirmidhi is known to have visited Iraq. This suggests that the names of Munkar and Nakir are introduced to Islamic beliefs during an early stage in the Islamization of Mesopotamia (or Iraq). The Mesopotamians still believed in the sun god Shamash, as well as Nergal and several other Babylonian gods at the time Islam was introduced. Thus, Nergal the god of the Underworld who is symbolized by the planet Mars, is a possible prototype for Munkar and Nakir. Astrologically, Munkar and Nakir share more clues in their Martian characteristics which connect them to Nergal.\n\n"}
{"id": "19755433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19755433", "title": "Murder of Henry Byrne and John Morley", "text": "Murder of Henry Byrne and John Morley\n\nHenry Byrne and John Morley, two officers of the Garda Síochána, the police force of Ireland, were murdered on 7 July 1980 by alleged members of the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA) during a pursuit in the aftermath of a bank robbery near Loughglynn, County Roscommon. The officers' deaths provoked national outrage. Three men were apprehended, convicted and sentenced to death for capital murder. Two of the sentences were later reduced to 40 years imprisonment while the third was overturned.\n\nOn 7 July 1980 three armed and masked men raided the Bank of Ireland in Ballaghaderreen, County Roscommon. The group held staff and customers at gunpoint before leaving with IR£35,000. The Gardaí (Irish police) arrived on the scene but were unarmed and were unable to stop the armed men from escaping in a blue Ford Cortina. The perpetrators were intercepted by a Garda patrol car from Castlerea station with four Gardaí, including Detective John Morley, who was armed with an Uzi submachine gun. The two cars collided at Shannon's Cross, Aghaderry, Loughglinn. One of the raiders jumped out of the Cortina and sprayed the patrol car with bullets, killing Garda Henry Byrne.\n\nOne man left the Cortina and ran off while his two accomplices – wearing balaclavas – ran in the opposite direction. There was an exchange of shots in which Morley is believed to have wounded one of the men, but he himself was fatally wounded. Both of these men were later apprehended, while a third man - Peter Pringle- was arrested in the city of Galway almost two weeks later. The two other Gardaí - Sergeant Mick O'Malley and Garda Derek O'Kelly - survived the shootout.\n\nJohn Francis Morley, born 1942 in Knock, County Mayo, was a Garda Síochána detective. Morley was married with two sons, Shane and Gordon and a daughter, Gillian. Morley had also been a noted Gaelic Footballer and was considered one of the best centre backs in the history of Connacht football. He played 112 league and championship games for Mayo between 1961–1974.\n\nHenry Byrne, born 1950 in Knock, County Mayo, was an officer in the Gardaí. Byrne was married with two children and his wife was pregnant with a third at the time of his death.\n\nThe event drew considerable national media commentary in Ireland. Byrne and Morley were the fifth and sixth Gardaí officers to die in the Troubles, and the 21st and 22nd Gardaí to die violently since the foundation of the state in 1922.\n\nMorley and Byrne were posthumously awarded the Scott Medal for their actions. The medals were presented to their families at a special ceremony in Templemore in 1982.\n\nThe three men apprehended were Peter Pringle, Patrick McCann, and Colm O'Shea. Because a portion of funding for the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA), a Republican paramilitary organisation, came from bank robberies, the three robbery suspects were identified as being associated with the INLA. This claim was disputed by advocates for the Irish Republican Socialist Party, the INLA's political wing, who stated that only one of the men (Pringle) had had a peripheral connection with the Irish Republican organisation some years earlier.\n\nAll three men were found guilty of murder and sentenced to death by hanging. Two weeks before their execution dates in June 1981, their sentences were commuted to 40 years imprisonment with no chance of parole. Pringle always denied any involvement in the crime and his conviction was overturned by the high court in 1995 due to discrepancies in the evidence. In September 2012, Colm O'Shea was one of the Ireland's longest-serving prisoners, but he failed in an appeal to the High Court for remission of his sentence which determined O'Shea could was not entitled to the standard 30-year remission. However, in July 2013, the Irish Supreme Court ruled that a prisoner serving 40 years for capital murder was entitled to the normal remission on his sentence if he met the conditions applied to other inmates. As a result, the prison authorities found that both O'Shea and McCann had already served the required 30-year term in jail and they were consequently released from in Portlaoise Prison. The details of their releases were not published in the national press until October 2013.\n\nThe events of the crime are recalled in a 2012 episode of the RTÉ One programme \"Garda ar Lár\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47310484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47310484", "title": "Nelly Arno", "text": "Nelly Arno\n\nNelly Aronowsky (15 July 1892 – September 1966), known professionally as Nelly Arno, was a German-born British theatre, film and radio actress.\n\nAronowsky was born in Karlsruhe to Abraham Aronowsky and Fanny (\"née\" Maysel). She had a younger brother, Alexander, born in 1896.\n\nIn 1920, she was living in Bernburg and already using the stage name Arno. She was appearing on the English stage and radio productions following the Second World War. It's not apparent when she emigrated, but she became a British citizen in 1948.\n\nShe died in Queens, New York in September 1966.\n\n"}
{"id": "2811083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2811083", "title": "Phil O'Donnell (footballer)", "text": "Phil O'Donnell (footballer)\n\nPhillip O'Donnell (25 March 1972 – 29 December 2007) was a Scottish footballer, who played as a left-sided midfielder for Motherwell, Celtic and Sheffield Wednesday during his career. He also earned one international cap for Scotland, and twice won the Scottish PFA Young Player of the Year award. He died after suffering cardiac arrest while playing for Motherwell against Dundee United on 29 December 2007, aged 35. \n\nO'Donnell was born on 25 March 1972 in Bellshill, North Lanarkshire, a few miles away from Motherwell's Fir Park ground. O'Donnell began his career with his local team, making his first team debut in the 1990–91 season against St Mirren, and soon a regular first team player. He won a Scottish Cup winner's medal after scoring with a diving header to put Motherwell 2-1 up in a 4–3 victory over Dundee United in the final that year. Ally McCoist commentating on the match describing him as being \"brave as a lion\". That result earned Motherwell entry to European competition for the first time and O'Donnell became the club's youngest player in Europe, playing a tie against Polish side GKS Katowice. He won the Scottish PFA Young Player of the Year Award in 1992 and 1994, and he earned one cap for the Scotland national football team, playing for 15 minutes as a substitute against Switzerland on 8 September 1993, replacing David Bowman. This form made him a target for bigger clubs and he signed for Celtic in September 1994. The fee of £1.75m is the highest Motherwell have received for a player.\n\nO'Donnell scored two goals in his debut for Celtic against Partick Thistle, and went on to win another Scottish Cup in 1995. He also earned his sole league winner's medal with the club in 1998, but injuries proved to be a major concern and his appearances for the club were limited. In 1999 O'Donnell was among a number of players who failed to agree terms on a new contract with Celtic chairman Fergus McCann, and instead moved on.\n\nAfter leaving Celtic as a free agent, O'Donnell signed for Sheffield Wednesday later that year. He made his debut against Everton on 11 September 1999, but injuries continued to curtail his career and he played just one match during his first season (when the club were relegated from the Premier League). He went on to play just 20 times in four years for Sheffield Wednesday (scoring once in a League Cup quarter final tie against Watford) and was given a free transfer at the time of their relegation to Division Two in 2003.\n\nO'Donnell returned to Scotland where former club Motherwell offered him the chance to train with them again. The Fir Park outfit re-signed him in January 2004, allowing him the chance to appear alongside his nephew, David Clarkson and earning him the club nickname, \"Uncle Phil\". He was also the uncle of St Mirren midfielder Stephen O'Donnell and Brian Dempsie who had also played for Motherwell. In his second spell at Motherwell he appeared in another cup final, this time being on the losing side as Rangers won the 2005 Scottish League Cup 5–1. The following season he replaced Scott Leitch as club captain.\n\n\n\nOn 29 December 2007, O'Donnell collapsed during a game against Dundee United just as he was about to be substituted. He was treated on the pitch for about five minutes by the Motherwell and Dundee United club doctors before being taken by ambulance to Wishaw General Hospital. However, he was pronounced dead at 17:18 hours. He was 35 years of age.\n\nA postmortem examination was carried out on 1 January 2008 and it was revealed O'Donnell died of left ventricular failure. His funeral was on 4 January, at St Mary's Church in Hamilton. He was then buried in the town's Bent cemetery only a mile away.\n\nHe was survived by his wife Eileen, and their daughters Megan and Olivia and sons Christopher and Luc, aged twelve, six, ten and four years respectively.\n\nFormer Scottish First Minister Jack McConnell, MSP for Motherwell and Wishaw, was among those to pay tribute. He hailed the midfielder as a \"great professional.\"\n\nMotherwell and other fans laid flowers, scarves, strips and other mementos at the gates of Fir Park. The club's scheduled SPL game against Hibs at Easter Road the following Wednesday was postponed along with the club's home game with Celtic the following Sunday out of respect. Scottish Premier League chairman Lex Gold said: \"We understand from Phil's family that they would appreciate it if the Motherwell v Celtic game scheduled for 6 January 2008 could be postponed. Both clubs are happy to meet the request and we have called the game off.\" On 31 December the SPL postponed the Celtic v Rangers fixture scheduled for 2 January 2008, following a request by O'Donnell's former club Celtic, which was agreed by Rangers. These postponements contributed to fixture congestion at the end of the 2007–08 season, which required the 2007–08 Scottish Premier League season to be extended when Rangers reached the 2008 UEFA Cup Final.\n\nPlayers on 30 December in Premier League matches between Derby County and Blackburn Rovers, and Manchester City and Liverpool, wore black bands in his honour. Sheffield Wednesday's matches at Hull City and at home to Preston North End were preceded by a minute's applause as a mark of respect to their former player, with the Hillsborough flags flying at half mast. All Premier League matches in the New Year programme were preceded with either a minute of applause or silence in O'Donnell's memory. While playing for Everton, James McFadden, a former Motherwell player, dedicated his goal to O'Donnell in Everton's 2–0 win at Middlesbrough by pointing solemnly to his black armband and then towards the sky.\n\nNottingham Forest opted not to show their respects before their Football League One match with Huddersfield Town on New Year's Day. Forest manager Colin Calderwood, himself a former Scottish international with 36 caps, explained: \"I didn't particularly want a tribute. Sometimes I don't think it's appropriate to have them for every tragedy that happens. The fact that it was a boy in Scotland, does that make it any different to a boy in Colombia?\" Calderwood later apologised for any offence caused by the comments, after he had been appointed manager of SPL club Hibernian on November 2010.\n\nThousands of tributes from around the world were posted on the internet. The club received hundreds of written tributes from fans as far as Korea and Ukraine, as well as many emotional messages from Sevilla FC, comparing O'Donnell's death to the similar fate of their player Antonio Puerta that August. Sevilla director of football Monchi said, \"This is terrible news. Right now, my thoughts are with Phil's family and everybody at Motherwell. Unfortunately, with the death of Phil O'Donnell, Motherwell have suffered a similar tragedy to ours. Antonio Puerta died at the beginning of the season and I know how terrible the whole experience is. Sevilla will be available to help in any way that we are able, to heal the pain and sadness of this tragic loss.\"\n\nMotherwell announced the Main Stand at Fir Park would be renamed The Phil O'Donnell Stand as a permanent tribute and his team-mates paid their own personal tribute by having his signature embroidered on their strips for the remainder of the 2007–08 season. On November 2011, a permanent memorial to O'Donnell was erected on the side of the stand bearing his name.\n\nOn 25 May 2008, a benefit match was held at Celtic Park in memory of O'Donnell with the proceeds going to various charities. The match was between a Celtic side drawn from their 1998 title-winning squad and a Motherwell side drawn from their 1991 Scottish Cup win. Other players such as David Clarkson and James McFadden played in the game. Henrik Larsson described the match as \"a sad occasion but at the same time it's a kind of celebration for everything.\" The match finished 5–1, in front of 60,000.\n\nThere is also the annual sponsored walk, that started on 29 December 2008, that is held on that day to honour O'Donnell's memory. The walk starts from Fir Park and ends at Celtic Park, the homes of two of O'Donnell's former clubs. The money raised from the walk goes directly to charities such as the British Heart Foundation and Mary's Meals.\n\nIn December 2010, a number of fellow Scottish footballers that had played alongside Phil had thought of his family announced they would trek up Cotopaxi in Ecuador in memory of Phil to raise £100,000 for the British Heart Foundation. The trek is scheduled to take place in the summer of 2012.\n\nSince O'Donnell's death in 2007, his nephew David Clarkson is the only player to have worn the number 10 shirt, which he had up until his departure in 2009. Since then this number, although not retired, has not been issued to any subsequent player.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15146639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15146639", "title": "Pokémon Ranger: Shadows of Almia", "text": "Pokémon Ranger: Shadows of Almia\n\nIt was announced in the January 2008 issue of \"CoroCoro\" and was released in Japan on March 20, 2008. It was announced at E3 2008 that the game would be released in the United States under the title \"Shadows of Almia\" on November 10, 2008. It was announced on September 25 that the game would be released in Europe under the title \"Shadows of Almia\" on November 21, 2008. It was released on the European Wii U Virtual Console on June 9, 2016, and was released on the North American Wii U Virtual Console on August 4, 2016.\n\nThe game features 270 Pokémon, including new Pokémon which were not featured in the original \"Pokémon Ranger\", from \"Pokémon Diamond\" and \"Pearl\". The game utilizes the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection to download new missions.\n\nThe game takes place in the Almia region. The player begins as a Pokémon ranger-in-training at the Ranger School and quickly graduates to a rookie Ranger and must advance from there. The player may choose their character’s gender, but unlike in the original \"Pokémon Ranger\", this choice does not affect their partner Pokémon.\n\nMuch of the gameplay is similar to the original game. Players must capture/befriend wild Pokémon to aid them by circling them with their Nintendo DS stylus (known as a Capture Styler in the game).\n\nThere is a major change from the original capture method. Instead of having to complete certain number of loops without lifting the stylus, the player must fill up a Pokémon’s Friendship Gauge by drawing loops around the Pokémon, but can lift the stylus to avoid attacks. However, the power in Friendship Gauge will decrease over time if the player stops drawing loops for too long. The amount of power in the gauge filled by each loop increases as the player levels up the styler.\n\nShadows of Almia also introduces Quests, which are mini-missions not essential to the plot that involve the player completing requests from Almia citizens, earning new partner Pokémon and power-ups (such as resistance to attacks or longer capture lines) for their styler as rewards.\n\nUnlike the original, \"Shadows of Almia\" allows the player to choose their partner Pokémon. In the previous game, the partner was decided based on the players chosen gender (Minun for male, Plusle for female). Players start with either Pachirisu, Munchlax, or Starly, and the other 14 partners (as well as the two partners that were not chosen at the beginning) are obtainable either through sub-quests or in-game events, and once captured, can be switched to be the player's partner at any time. There are 17 possible partners, one for each of the Pokémon types that existed at the time.\n\nShadows of Almia also includes 4 different types of stylers: the School, Capture, Fine and Vatonage stylers. The School styler is a simplified version of the capture styler, while the Fine Styler has a charge feature (which can be upgraded) which activates when the styler is held down, increasing the amount of feelings conveyed to the Pokémon and enabling quicker captures. The Vatonage styler is a unique Fine Styler that can capture Team Dim Sun's Pokémon instead of merely releasing them.\n\nThis game takes place in a new region - , far from all other regions encountered in other games. The Fiore region is an exception, however. It is mentioned frequently in Almia. Almia has a widely varied landscape, everything from the hot Haruba Desert to the chilly Hia Valley.\n\nThe game starts at the Ranger School, with the player enrolling as a student after expertly capturing a Pikachu. The player quickly makes friends with two of classmates, Rhythmi who dreams of being an Operator, and Keith, a rival, who dreams of becoming a Top Ranger. After the player and Keith nearly discover what Mr. Kincaid, a teacher, is doing in the basement, Mr. Kincaid seals it off from all students. Both the player and Keith show strong potential as Rangers, and graduate with full honors after defeating two Tangrowth at their graduation ceremony. The player stays in Almia, while Keith and Rhythmi go to Fiore as part of their training. The player's family moves into a nearby town known as Chicole Village, and the player goes to live with them.\n\nDuring this time, an evil group emerges in Almia known as Team Dim Sun. Dim Sun uses machines called Miniremos and Gigaremos to control Pokémon for their own use.\n\nThe player becomes an Area Ranger, helping out the people of Vientown, and receives a partner Pokémon by befriending it. The player receives their first major mission soon after: Patrolling a nearby cave. In this cave, strange Pokémon under mind control are found and rescued, with the source of their control being a (not known at the time) Gigaremo unit. The player comes back from Ranger HQ after talking about the gigaremo, when a forest fire soon breaks out in Vien Forest. After stopping the fire with a Blastoise, the player gains access to the town on the other side, Pueltown.\n\nThe player's next big mission is to locate the leader of the Area Rangers-Barlow, who was last seen leaving to investigate disturbances on the volcanic isle of Boyleland. After exploring Boyle Volcano, the player captures two of Team Dim Sun's guards, who tell him that Barlow is on their large ship used to transport Pokémon. The player runs after the ship, and after finding Barlow, they confront the leader, Mr. Kincaid, who was a leader of Dim Sun. Kincaid deploys a Drapion to deal with the Rangers, and is defeated. Kincaid orders the ship to be submerged, which the player prevents, and Kincaid flees. Barlow steers the ship into the yard of the Ranger Academy, where the mission is declared a success.\n\nThe player is promoted to the rank of Top Ranger and gains the use of the Fine Styler. Their first mission is to help Sven, another Top Ranger, investigate a Dim Sun mining operation in the Chroma Ruins. They discover that Dim Sun is looking for Dark Crystals to power their Gigaremo and Miniremo units. They also find a hole where a large Shadow Crystal was once held, and a Diary written by the late Brighton Hall, the previous president of Altru Inc; the mining site is discovered to be the ruins of the site where Doyle Hall, the company's founder, first began prospecting for new energy sources. While examining the Dark Crystal, the Rangers discover that the effects of these crystals can be nullified by shards of three gems known as the Tears of Princes.\n\nThe player and Keith go on to separately collect the sources of these shards; the blue gem from Almia Castle, the red gem from Boyle Volcano, and the yellow gem from Hippowdon Temple. Although the player takes both the blue and red gems, Keith is captured by Dim Sun, which uses him to blackmail the player into surrendering the yellow gem. Meanwhile, Sven raids Dim Sun's undersea base, stealing plans for an \"Incredible Machine\". With the aid of Isaac, a former classmate of the player and Kincaid's unwitting protege, it is discovered that the plans are for Altru Inc.'s tower, which is actually a massive Gigaremo powered by the Shadow Crystal. With this revelation it is realized that Altru Inc. is behind Team Dim Sun's activities.\n\nImmediately after this realization, the Sinis Trio — three Dim Sun agents serving Blake Hall, Altru's president — attack the Ranger Union headquarters. They bribe Isaac into returning to save his sister. After the player and Keith defeat Blake's deputy Wheeler, the leaders of the Ranger Union plan an all out strike on Altru Tower, known as Operation Brighton. The two top rangers circle the headquarters, while Keith and the player would charge the tower, find the Yellow gem, rescue Isaac, and destroy the barrier. After this is accomplished, the player confronts Blake on the top of the tower, too late to prevent its full activation. With the Shadow Crystal's power, Blake summons a Dusknoir from Hippowdon Temple, but the player captures it and defeats Wheeler once more. Pushing the Incredible Machine into the unsafe \"Level Dark,\" Blake summons Darkrai, the Shadow Crystal's protector; driven mad by the Incredible Machine, Darkrai breaks free from Blake's control, consumes him and Wheeler in a Dark Void, and goes on a rampage. The player uses the power of the Tears of Princes linked with their Styler to capture Darkrai and save Blake, which turns the Shadow Crystal into the Luminous Crystal, ending the mission. Professor Hastings arrives and reveals that Blake was born Wyatt Hall, and Brighton offered him to the Shadow Crystal and changed his name, a mistake Brighton came to regret when Blake drove him from Altru. Remorseful for his actions, Blake surrenders to Hastings and is taken to face justice.\n\nPeace returns to Almia and its inhabitants, and the characters enjoy a concert originally planned for Altru (played by the Go-Rock Quads from the original \"Pokémon Ranger\") while the player returns home to his family. The game ends showing Darkrai circling the Luminous Crystal. In an epilogue mission, Kincaid reorganizes the remnants of Team Dim Sun under his own leadership. Now dubbed Team Debonairs, the revived organization attempts to revert the Luminous Crystal back into the Shadow Crystal by removing the Tears of Princes from their positions around it. With Darkrai's aid, the player thwarts Team Debonairs, ends Kincaid's ambitions and ensures a peaceful future for all of Almia.\n\n\"Shadows of Almia\" has received mostly mixed reviews, with a score of 68 on Metacritic. GameSpot gave the title a 7.5 out of 10 rating, stating that \"\"Pokémon Ranger: Shadows of Almia\" improves upon its predecessor just enough to make it a fun, solid addition to the spin-off series.\". Eurogamer gave Shadows of Almia a 6 out of 10 rating, stating that \"With a long wait until the next proper Pokémon game, many fans may feel that's enough, but they shouldn't expect anything more than a mild distraction.\" 1UP gave the title a C+ rating, stating that \"While it's nowhere near as addictive as the regular color-coded Pokémon games, Almia's still a decent diversion -- I just wish the story offered something a little deeper.\" IGN gave the title a rating of 6.7 out of 10, stating that \"Unless you're addicted to scribbling circles like that creepy boy from The Ring, or you're some sort of hippie that only likes playing humane non-battling Pokémon games, you could probably pass on this and be just fine.\" As of July 9, 2008, the game has sold 576,467 copies in Japan, according to \"Famitsu\". It is also the 13th best-selling game of Japan in 2008. It was the sixth best-selling game of December 2008 in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1120567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1120567", "title": "Postpartum infections", "text": "Postpartum infections\n\nPostpartum infections, also known as childbed fever and puerperal fever, are any bacterial infections of the female reproductive tract following childbirth or miscarriage. Signs and symptoms usually include a fever greater than , chills, lower abdominal pain, and possibly bad-smelling vaginal discharge. It usually occurs after the first 24 hours and within the first ten days following delivery.\nThe most common infection is that of the uterus and surrounding tissues known as puerperal sepsis, postpartum metritis, or postpartum endometritis. Risk factors include Cesarean section (C-section), the presence of certain bacteria such as group B streptococcus in the vagina, premature rupture of membranes, multiple vaginal exams, manual removal of the placenta, and prolonged labour among others. Most infections involve a number of types of bacteria. Diagnosis is rarely helped by culturing of the vagina or blood. In those who do not improve, medical imaging may be required. Other causes of fever following delivery include breast engorgement, urinary tract infections, infections of an abdominal incision or an episiotomy, and atelectasis.\nDue to the risks following C-section, it is recommended that all women receive a preventive dose of antibiotics such as ampicillin around the time of surgery. Treatment of established infections is with antibiotics, with most people improving in two to three days. In those with mild disease, oral antibiotics may be used; otherwise intravenous antibiotics are recommended. Common antibiotics include a combination of ampicillin and gentamicin following vaginal delivery or clindamycin and gentamicin in those who have had a C-section. In those who are not improving with appropriate treatment, other complications such an abscess should be considered.\nIn 2015, about 11.8 million maternal infections occurred. In the developed world about one to two percent develop uterine infections following vaginal delivery. This increases to five to thirteen percent among those who have more difficult deliveries and 50 percent with C-sections before the use of preventative antibiotics. In 2015, these infections resulted in 17,900 deaths down from 34,000 deaths in 1990. They are the cause of about 10% of deaths around the time of pregnancy. The first known descriptions of the condition date back to at least the 5th century BCE in the writings of Hippocrates. These infections were a very common cause of death around the time of childbirth starting in at least the 18th century until the 1930s when antibiotics were introduced. In 1847, in Austria, Ignaz Semmelweiss through the use of handwashing with chlorine decreased death from the disease from nearly twenty percent to two percent.\n\nSigns and symptoms usually include a fever greater than , chills, low abdominal pain, and possibly bad smelling vaginal discharge. It usually occurs after the first 24 hours and within the first ten days following delivery.\n\nAfter childbirth a woman's genital tract has a large bare surface, which is prone to infection. Infection may be limited to the cavity and wall of her uterus, or it may spread beyond to cause septicaemia (blood poisoning) or other illnesses, especially when her resistance has been lowered by a long labour or severe bleeding. Puerperal infection is most common on the raw surface of the interior of the uterus after separation of the placenta (afterbirth); but pathogenic organisms may also affect lacerations of any part of the genital tract. By whatever portal, they can invade the bloodstream and lymph system to cause septicemia, cellulitis (inflammation of connective tissue), and pelvic or generalized peritonitis (inflammation of the abdominal lining). The severity of the illness depends on the virulence of the infecting organism, the resistance of the invaded tissues, and the general health of the woman. Organisms commonly producing this infection are \"Streptococcus pyogenes\"; staphylococci (inhabitants of the skin and of pimples, carbuncles, and many other pustular eruptions); the anaerobic streptococci, which flourish in devitalized tissues such as may be present after long and injurious labour and unskilled instrumental delivery; \"Escherichia coli\" and \"Clostridium perfringens\" (inhabitants of the lower bowel); and \"Clostridium tetani\".\n\nCauses (listed in order of decreasing frequency) include endometritis, urinary tract infection, pneumonia/atelectasis, wound infection, and septic pelvic thrombophlebitis. Septic risk factors for each condition are listed in order of the postpartum day (PPD) on which the condition generally occurs.\n\nPuerperal fever is diagnosed when:\n\nPuerperal fever (from the Latin \"puer\", \"male child (boy)\"), is no longer favored as a diagnostic category. Instead, contemporary terminology specifies:\n\nEndometritis is a polymicrobial infection. It frequently includes organisms such as \"Ureaplasma\", \"Streptococcus\", \"Mycoplasma\", and \"Bacteroides\", and may also include organisms such as \"Gardnerella\", \"Chlamydia\", \"Lactobacillus\", \"Escherichia\", and \"Staphylococcus\".\n\nA number of other conditions can cause fevers following delivery including: urinary tract infections, breast engorgement, atelectasis and surgical incisions, among others.\n\nAntibiotics have been used to prevent and treat these infections however the misuse of antibiotics is a serious problem for global health. It is recommended that guidelines be followed which outline when it is appropriate to give antibiotics and which antibiotics are most effective.\n\nAtelectasis: mild to moderate fever, no changes or mild rales on chest auscultation.\n\nManagement: pulmonary exercises, ambulation (deep breathing and walking)\n\nUrinary tract infection : high fever, malaise, costovertebral tenderness, positive urine culture.\n\nManagement: antibiotics as per culture sensitivity (cephalosporine).\n\nEndometritis: moderate fever, exquisite uterine tenderness, minimal abdominal findings.\n\nManagement: multiple agent IV antibiotics to cover polymicrobial organisms: clindamycin, gentamicin, addition of ampicillin if no response, no cultures are necessary.\n\nWound infection: persistent spiking fever despite antibiotics, wound erythema or fluctuance, wound drainage.\n\nManagement: antibiotics for cellulitis, open and drain wound, saline-soaked packing twice a day, secondary closure.\n\nSeptic pelvic thrombophlebitis: persistent wide fever swings despite antibiotics, usually normal abdominal or pelvic exams.\n\nManagement: IV heparin for 7–10 days at rates sufficient to prolong the PTT to double the baseline values.\n\nMastitis: unilateral, localized erythema, edema, tenderness.\n\nManagement: antibiotics for cellulitis, open and drain abscess if present.\n\nThe number of cases of puerperal sepsis per year shows wide variations among published literature — this may be related to different definition, recording etc. Globally, bacterial infections are the cause of 10% of maternal deaths- this is more common in low income countries but is also a direct cause of maternal deaths in high income countries.\n\nIn the United States, puerperal infections are believed to occur in between one and eight percent of all births. About three die from puerperal sepsis for every 100,000 births. The single most important risk factor is Caesarean section. The number of maternal deaths in the United States is about 13 in 100,000. They make up about 11% of pregnancy related deaths in the United States.\n\nIn the United Kingdom 1985–2005, the number of \"direct\" deaths associated with genital tract sepsis per 100,000 pregnancies was 0.40–0.85. In 2003–2005, genital tract sepsis accounted for 14% of direct causes of maternal death.\n\nPuerperal infections in the 18th and 19th centuries affected, on average, 6 to 9 women in every 1,000 births, killing two to three of them with peritonitis or septicemia. It was the single most common cause of maternal mortality, accounting for about half of all deaths related to childbirth, and was second only to tuberculosis in killing women of childbearing age. A rough estimate is that about 250,000–500,000 died from puerperal fever in the 18th and 19th centuries in England and Wales alone.\n\nAlthough it had been recognized from as early as the time of the Hippocratic corpus that women in childbed were prone to fevers, the distinct name, \"puerperal fever\" appears in historical records only from the early 18th century.\n\nThe death rate for women giving birth decreased in the 20th century in developed countries. The decline may be partly attributed to improved environmental conditions, better obstetrical care, and the use of antibiotics. Another reason appears to be a lessening of the virulence or invasiveness of Streptococcus pyogenes. This organism is also the cause of scarlet fever, which over the same period has also declined markedly in severity and incidence. \n\nThe historical level of maternal deaths is probably around 1 in 100 births. Mortality rates reached very high levels in maternity institutions in the 1800s, sometimes climbing to 40 percent of birthgiving women (see Historical mortality rates of puerperal fever). At the beginning of the 1900s, maternal death rates were around 1 in 100 for live births.\n\nFrom the 1600s through the mid-to-late 1800s, the majority of childbed fever cases were caused by the doctors themselves. With no knowledge of germs, doctors did not believe hand washing was needed.\n\nHospitals for childbirth became common in the 17th century in many European cities. These \"lying-in\" hospitals were established at a time when there was no knowledge of antisepsis or epidemiology, and women were subjected to crowding, frequent vaginal examinations, and the use of contaminated instruments, dressings, and bedding. It was common for a doctor to deliver one baby after another, without washing his hands or changing clothes in between.\n\nThe first recorded epidemic of puerperal fever occurred at the Hôtel-Dieu de Paris in 1646. Hospitals throughout Europe and America consistently reported death rates between 20% to 25% of all women giving birth, punctuated by intermittent epidemics with up to 100% fatalities of women giving birth in childbirth wards.\n\nIn the 1800s Ignaz Semmelweis noticed that women giving birth at home had a much lower incidence of childbed fever than those giving birth in the doctor's maternity ward. His investigation discovered that washing hands with an antiseptic, in this case a calcium chloride solution, before a delivery reduced childbed fever fatalities by 90%. Publication of his findings was not well received by the medical profession. The idea conflicted both with the existing medical concepts and with the image doctors had of themselves. The scorn and ridicule of doctors was so extreme that Semmelweis moved from Vienna and was eventually committed to a mental asylum where he died.\n\nSemmelweis was not the only doctor ignored after sounding a warning about this issue: in \"Treatise on the Epidemic of Puerperal Fever\" (1795), ex-naval surgeon and Aberdonian obstetrician Alexander Gordon warned that the disease was transmitted from one case to another by midwives and doctors. Gordon wrote, \"It is a disagreeable declaration for me to mention, that I myself was the means of carrying the infection to a great number of women.\"\n\nThomas Watson, Professor of Medicine at King's College Hospital, London, wrote in 1842: \"Wherever puerperal fever is rife, or when a practitioner has attended any one instance of it, he should use most diligent ablution.\" Watson recommended handwashing with chlorine solution and changes of clothing for obstetric attendants \"to prevent the practitioner becoming a vehicle of contagion and death between one patient and another.\"\n\nIn 1843, Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. published \"The Contagiousness of Puerperal Fever\" and controversially concluded that puerperal fever was frequently carried from patient to patient by physicians and nurses; he suggested that clean clothing and avoidance of autopsies by those aiding birth would prevent the spread of puerperal fever. Holmes quoted Dr. James Blundell as stating, \"... in my own family, I had rather that those I esteemed the most should be delivered unaided, in a stable, by the mangerside, than that they should receive the best help, in the fairest apartment, but exposed to the vapors of this pitiless disease.\"\n\nHolmes' conclusions were ridiculed by many contemporaries, including Charles Delucena Meigs, a well-known obstetrician, who stated, \"Doctors are gentlemen, and gentlemen's hands are clean.\" Richard Gordon states that Holmes' exhortations \"outraged obstetricians, particularly in Philadelphia\". In those days, \"surgeons operated in blood-stiffened frock coats - the stiffer the coat, the prouder the busy surgeon\", \"pus was as inseparable from surgery as blood\", and \"Cleanliness was next to prudishness\". He quotes Sir Frederick Treves on that era: \"There was no object in being clean ... Indeed, cleanliness was out of place. It was considered to be finicking and affected. An executioner might as well manicure his nails before chopping off a head\".\n\nIn 1844, Ignaz Semmelweis was appointed assistant lecturer in the First Obstetric Division of the Vienna General Hospital (Allgemeines Krankenhaus), where medical students received their training. Working without knowledge of Holmes' essay, Semmelweis noticed his ward's 16% mortality rate from fever was substantially higher than the 2% mortality rate in the Second Division, where midwifery students were trained. Semmelweis also noticed that puerperal fever was rare in women who gave birth before arriving at the hospital. Semmelweis noted that doctors in First Division performed autopsies each morning on women who had died the previous day, but the midwives were not required or allowed to perform such autopsies. He made the connection between the autopsies and puerperal fever after a colleague, Jakob Kolletschka, died of sepsis after accidentally cutting his hand while performing an autopsy.\n\nSemmelweis began experimenting with various cleansing agents and, from May 1847, ordered all doctors and students working in the First Division wash their hands in chlorinated lime solution before starting ward work, and later before each vaginal examination. The mortality rate from puerperal fever in the division fell from 18% in May 1847 to less than 3% in June–November of the same year. While his results were extraordinary, he was treated with skepticism and ridicule (see Response to Semmelweis).\n\nHe did the same work in St. Rochus hospital in Pest, Hungary, and published his findings in 1860, but his discovery was again ignored.\n\nIn 1935, Leonard Colebrook showed Prontosil was effective against haemolytic streptococcus and hence a cure for puerperal fever.\n\nElizabeth of York, the mother of Henry VIII of England, died of puerperal fever one week after giving birth to a daughter. Other famous victims include author Jean Webster, English queens Jane Seymour and Katherine Parr (both wives of Henry VIII), housekeeping authority Isabella Beeton, famous French natural philosopher Émilie du Châtelet and Mary Wollstonecraft, author of \"Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" and mother of \"Frankenstein\" author Mary Shelley. Suzanne Barnard, mother of philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau, contracted childbed fever after giving birth to him, and died nine days later. Her infant son was also in perilous health following the birth; the adult Rousseau later wrote that \"I came into the world with so few signs of life that little hope was entertained of preserving me\". He was nursed back to health by an aunt. African-American poet Phillis Wheatley (1753–84) died of puerperal fever. In Charles Dickens' novel \"A Christmas Carol\", it is implied that both Scrooge's mother and younger sister perished from this condition, explaining the character's animosity towards his nephew Fred and also his poor relationship with his own father.\n\n"}
{"id": "20687760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20687760", "title": "Pruritic folliculitis of pregnancy", "text": "Pruritic folliculitis of pregnancy\n\nPruritic folliculitis of pregnancy is a dermatosis of pregnancy characterized by small follicular pustules scattered widely over the trunk, appearing during the second or third trimester, and resolving by 2 or 3 weeks after delivery.\n\n"}
{"id": "40887629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40887629", "title": "Raising of the son of the widow of Zarephath", "text": "Raising of the son of the widow of Zarephath\n\nThe raising of the widow of Zarephath's son is a miracle of the prophet Elijah recorded in the Hebrew Bible, 1 Kings 17.\n\n1 Kings 17 is the chapter in which Elijah is first mentioned by name in the Bible. It states that he is a Tishbite from Gilead, who visited King Ahab to give him a message from God that there would be no rain in the land until he declared it (v1). In order to avoid the wrath of the king God told Elijah to hide by the Brook Cherith where he was fed bread and meat by ravens sent from God (vv2-6).\n\nAfter a while, due to the drought, the brook dried up so God told Elijah to go to the town of Sarepta and to seek out a widow that would find him water and food (vv.7-9). Elijah learns that the widow has a son and between them they only have enough flour and oil for one more meal before they die. Despite this the widow helps Elijah (vv11-14). Because she did this God caused the flour and the oil never to run out (vv15-16).\n\nVictor H. Matthews suggests that the woman \"uses sarcasm which is designed to shame the prophet for being the cause of her son's death.\" Elijah does not try and rationalise with the grieving woman and takes the son up to his bedroom where he prays to God asking for his help. \n\nHe then takes the child downstairs again and presents him, living, to his mother. This causes her to declare \"Now by this I know that thou art a man of God\" (v24), Elijah therefore \"regains his honor and his status.\"\n\nRabbi Eliezer ben Hyrcanus, also known as Rabbi Eliezer Hagadol, relates that the son raised by Elijah was none other than the prophet Jonah, most notably associated with the incident involving a giant fish. Commentators have noted verbal parallels with the raising of the son of the widow of Nain in the Gospel of Luke. The miracle is represented in the Dura synagogue murals.\n"}
{"id": "21359736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21359736", "title": "Ramdwara", "text": "Ramdwara\n\nRamdwara (Devanagari रामद्वारा) means 'the doorway to the \"Ram\"' (i.e., to the name of God). It is a place of worship for the people who believe in Ramsnehi Sampradaya, which advocates chanting of 'Ram' (राम). Ramsnehi means \"People who love God\". Their way of worshipping God is simple. People of all faiths, castes, sections etc. visit at the Ramdwaras. This concept of \"Ram\" or \"Rama\" is distinct from the Hindu deity Rama.\n\nRamsnehi Sampradaya is a spiritual and religious tradition originating in 1817 Vikram Samwat in Bhilwara city of Rajasthan by the disciple of Swami Shri Ram Charan Maharaj who provided the spiritual and philosophical basis for the sect.\n\nIn present time, \"Ramsnehi Sampradaya\" has four major monasteries. All are in Rajasthan, India. They are in the following cities:\n\n\nSmaller Ramdwara centres are located at various places in states of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Delhi.\n\nSwami Ji Shree Ram Charan Ji Maharaj came to Shahpura from Bhilwara and did Tapasya (deep meditation).\n\nAt the place where Swami Ram Charan Ji Maharaj's body was cremated, a giant Ramdwara has been built. This is now the chief Ramdwara of \"Ramsnehi Sampradaya\".\n\nThis Ramdwara is also called Ram Niwas Dhaam or Ram Niwas Baikunth Dhaam.\n\nThe Shahpura Ramdwara was sponsored by the then King of Shahpura, Maharaja Amar Singh, and his brother Chattra Singh.\nIt was built by constructors named Jarror Khan and Kushal Khan. This is also a great example of the brotherhood of Hindus and Muslims in India.\n\nAll the marble stones used in construction were sourced from a place near the north border of nearby village named \"Kanti\".\nThere is a speciality in all used marble stones that each marble stone has a picture and stone mark on it as of Hindi (Devnagari) alphabets of the construction of word \"Ram\" (Lord Ram), bow, saint, India's map, sword, lion, monkey and other natural pictures.\n\nThe main (and base) structure of Shahpura Ramdwara is an octagon shaped shiny marble pillar which is about 12 feet long. This pillar is situated at the cremation place of Ram Charan Maharaj. This pillar is called the Samadhi Stambh.\n\nThe floor above the pillar is called Baradari (a kind of summer house with several open marble gates ). A rectangular stone is placed in the center of Baradari which is just over the main pillar.\n\nThe Baradari has 108 small pillars which make 84 open gates.\n\nThe construction was done in different phases.\n\nThe monks of \"RamSnehi Sampradaya\" are identical by their dressing code. They wear a robe coloured a very light pink. After taking oaths, monks can not return to their family and must treat the whole world equally and fairly, without any prejudices. They are supposed to follow all the defined rules strictly.\n\nRamsnehis believe in the name of God (Ram राम) and do not believe in idolatry. A Ramsnehi only follows the simple and easily defined rules. Ramsnehis just do Darshan of the chair of current Acharya and monks. They pay respects to all the previous (departed) acharyas and saints as well.\n\nRamsnehis remember the name राम (Ram, a name of the Lord). Three main pillars of the ideology are:\n\n\nThe following are the Acharyas who successively led the Ramsnehi Sampradaya after Ram Charan:\n\nRam Dayal is the present Acharya.\n\n\n\"Ram Rahasya Darshan\" is a small compilation of Swami Ram Charan Ji's works, prepared by the late Sant Shree LakshyaRamJi.\n\nA few prayers of Ramsnehis:\n"}
{"id": "10552452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10552452", "title": "Ratanachai Sor Vorapin", "text": "Ratanachai Sor Vorapin\n\nRatanachai Sor Vorapin is a professional boxer and a former WBO bantamweight champion. He is the younger brother of Ratanapol Sor Vorapin, a former IBF strawweight champion.\n\nAfter winning 6 consecutive matches, he fought Ruangroj Kiatkriangkrai for the Thai light flyweight championship where he won by unanimous decision on September 28, 1992. In his first defense of that title 73 days later, he lost to Kompayak Chor Charoen on points and tasted his first defeat. He regained it on March 26, 1994 with TKO victory over Suksawat Torboonlert in two rounds.\n\nSor Vorapin had his first shot at a world title on April 24, 1999 where he battled Mark Johnson for the vacant IBF super flyweight title. Unsuccessfully, he lost via unanimous decision.\n\nHe then moved up in weight where he took on Tim Austin for the IBF bantamweight title on December 15, 2001. Like his previous attempt for a world crown, Sor Vorapin lost the match in a similar fashion.\n\nIn his third world title shot, Sor Vorapin finally achieved victory. There, he won the WBO bantamweight title on May 7, 2004 with a unanimous decision win over Cruz Carbajal. Following some wins in seven ordinary matches, Sor Vorapin defended his title by outpointing Mauricio Martinez on August 5, 2005. On his second title defense, however, he was TKO'd in seven rounds by Jhonny Gonzalez on October 29, 2005.\n\nHe attempted to regain the title by challenging Gerry Peñalosa who won it from Gonzalez. In the aftermath of the fight, Vorapin was defeated by an 8th round stoppage from Peñalosa on April 6, 2008 in the event \"Invasion: Philippines vs. The World\" at the Araneta Coliseum. Peñalosa knocked down the Thai thrice, in the 5th, 7th, and earlier in the eighth.\n\nOn September 14, 2008, Filipino boxer Michael Domingo scored a 9th-round technical knockout victory over Ratanachai Sor Vorapin at the New Cebu Coliseum to retain the regional World Boxing Organization Oriental bantamweight title.\n\n"}
{"id": "53883318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53883318", "title": "Rebirth in Germanic paganism", "text": "Rebirth in Germanic paganism\n\nSurviving texts indicate that there was a belief in rebirth in Germanic paganism. Examples include figures from eddic poetry and sagas, potentially by way of a process of naming and/or through the family line. Scholars have discussed the implications of these attestations and proposed theories regarding belief in reincarnation among the Germanic peoples prior to Christianization and potentially to some extent in folk belief thereafter.\n\nIn the Helgi lays of the \"Poetic Edda\", Helgi and his valkyrie lover are said to have been reborn: in the prose at the end of \"Helgakviða Hjörvarðssonar\", there is a statement that Helgi Hjörvarðsson and Sváva were subsequently born again, and at the end of \"Helgakviða Hundingsbana II\", that according to \"ancient lore\" now dismissed as \"old women's lying tales\", Helgi Sigmundsson was reborn as Helgi Haddingjaskati (prince of the Haddingjar) and Sigrún as Kara Hálfdanardóttir. Conversely in \"Sigurðarkviða hin skamma\", Högni expresses the wish that Brynhildr not be reborn.\n\nIn the \"Flateyjarbók\" version of \"Óláfs saga helga\", the \"Þáttr Ólafs Geirstaða Alfs\" recounts how the dead Ólaf Geirstaða Álfr gives instructions in a dream for his barrow to be robbed and his body mutilated, and his belt used to ease the birth of a boy who is to be named after him and given his sword and knife; the boy becomes Olaf II of Norway, St. Olaf, and is rumoured among his followers to be the earlier Olaf reincarnated. Nora Chadwick suggested that in the older Olaf's name and elsewhere, the álfar (elves) referred to souls awaiting rebirth.\n\nThere are also mentions in two legendary sagas of boys being born with the marks of wounds that were dealt to an ancestor: in \"Gautreks saga\", a poem by Starkaðr alludes to the marks supposedly on his body from his grandfather's eight arms being torn off by the god Thor, and in one version of \"Þórðar saga hræðu\", Þórðr is born with a mark on his left arm corresponding to a wound his father had received.\n\nIn \"Helgakviða Hundingsbana II\", the second Helgi receives his name while sitting on a barrow; King Olaf was named after a man buried in a barrow at the latter's request; and in another tale in \"Flateyjarbók\" and in \"Vatnsdæla saga\", \"Svarfdæla saga\" and \"Finnboga saga\", dead and dying men ask for their names to be passed on, often to future sons of those they are speaking to. Hilda Ellis Davidson saw a connection between name-giving and the idea of rebirth in these passages. Gustav Storm proposed this interpretation in an 1893 article; a study of Icelandic genealogies by Max Keil supported the conclusion but cast into question Storm's idea that there was a change in practice from name-giving using variation to name-giving using repetition, and also distinguished a belief in rebirth from transmigration of souls as it is understood in Eastern religion, involving a progression over a series of lives. Both scholars noted that a grandfather's name was most commonly re-used—Jan de Vries saw the derivation of the German word for 'grandson', \"Enkel\", from Old High German \"eninchilî\", 'little grandfather', as support for the idea that a belief in rebirth underlay the custom of skipping one generation in naming—and rarely that of a still living person, and Keil also concluded that what genealogical evidence there is on women suggests the same practice in naming as for men. Sami customs of naming also rest on a belief that people are reborn into the same family.\n\nIn the 2nd century CE, Appian wrote in his \"Roman History\" that the Teutons had no fear of death because they hoped to be reborn.\n\nK. A. Eckhardt, who published a book on the concept of rebirth within the extended family or clan, suggested that the burial position with the legs drawn up against the body emulated the position of the foetus in the womb and was therefore evidence of the belief in rebirth.\n\n"}
{"id": "47171918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47171918", "title": "Rock County John Doe", "text": "Rock County John Doe\n\nRock County John Doe, commonly referred as John Clinton Doe, is the name given to unidentified skeletal remains estimated to be a young adult or teenaged white male, which were found alongside Turtle Creek near Clinton, Rock County, Wisconsin on November 26, 1995. Currently, at the request of law enforcement, the DNA Doe Project has taken on the case and is in the early stages of their investigation.\n\nThe nearly complete skeleton was found by a hunting party at approximately 9:00 AM within private property alongside the creek, in a remote, densely wooded 100-acre area owned by the hunters. The skeleton was mostly complete and articulated, lying on its belly, with its hands over the head while the head and back were partially covered by a denim jacket. The body still wore age-fitting clothes, save for a shoe, and was located on a steep embankment, ten feet from the creek and four feet from the barbed wire fence of the property.\n\nIt was initially estimated that the deceased died in the fall or winter of 1994, about one year before he was found, but recent comparisons with modern forensic facility research suggests that he may have died in the summer of 1995, around five months before his discovery.\n\nThe cause of death is currently unknown, as no signs of trauma were found on the skeleton: a homicide is deemed unlikely, and no other causes could be determined. Analysis of his hair found no conclusive traces of cocaine, codeine or morphine, making it unlikely that he had a long-term opioid addiction; however, this does not exclude the possibility that he was intoxicated or that he took hallucinogenic drugs before his death. It is commonly believed that he died from hypothermia from getting soaked in the creek, perhaps after getting intoxicated and becoming disoriented as a result.\n\nThe skull was cremated while the rest of the skeleton was buried in Johnstown Center Cemetery, Rock County, Wisconsin. His DNA and dental records are available.\n\nThe Caucasian male stood approximately 66<nowiki>\"</nowiki>, or between 5 feet 4 inches or (1.65 m) and 5 feet 6 inches (1.70 m). His weight was estimated to be approximately 140 lb (64 kg). He was estimated to be between 17 and 20 years old. He had straight teeth and seemed to have received good dental care with only one or two fillings, and still had his wisdom teeth, with two having partially erupted and one being impacted.\n\nThe decedent wore a T-shirt with the trademarked logo of the heavy metal group \"Venom\" on the back, which contains a golden five-pointed star surrounded by a circle with a goat head at the center and the caption \"Welcome to hell\" and \" ©Venom 1987\"; gray urban camouflage fatigues of small/medium size; a lined flannel red and green jacket with a plaid design; size medium/34 boxer underwear with a Bart Simpson design; and a 1993 size 9-1/2 Black Nike Air Bound basketball shoe. Only one of the shoes were found at the site, lying near the skeleton.\n\nThe young man carried a distinctive pendant made from a dinner fork, shaped like the head of a goat. Other items found with the body were cigarette butts, a Budweiser disposable butane lighter with the caption \"Proud to be Your Bud\" printed on it, a tube of Carmex lip balm, and a black Aquatech watch.\n\nHis clothes, pendant and hair suggest that he was a heavy metal music aficionado and, as such, familiar with metal subculture, but investigations in the local metal circles did not bring conclusive results about his identity.\n\nSeveral facial approximations were publicly released over time. The first reconstruction released by Project Edan in 2013 is currently considered to be inaccurate by authorities. The second reconstruction released in 2014 by the FBI is considered by official agencies to be the most accurate to date, depicting a 20-year-old youth with collar long, dark feathery hair and high cheek bones. A third, colored and age-regressed version of the FBI approximation, regressed to approximately age 16, was released to the public in February 2016 to help identification.\n\nSeveral witnesses remember seeing, on October 16, 1994 around 5:30 PM, a young man in his early twenties near the same area where the body was found. The man, who was wearing similar clothing as found with John Clinton Doe, was seen running and stumbling in Turtle Creek, visibly intoxicated and distraught. Dubbed \"River Guy\" by local investigators, he was reported by witnesses to have fallen in the water two or three times, trying to climb up the embankment and yelling at bystanders, telling them to get away from him. He also mentioned being wronged by a woman named Mary and being a fugitive. He was then seen sitting on the creek bank after his ramblings. Contrary to the FBI approximation of JCD, the 1994 police artist facial composite of \"River Guy\" shows him as having a light beard.\n\nIt is commonly believed by those close to the case that River Guy and John Clinton Doe are the same person. However, this hypothesis is challenged by the recent forensic estimations based on body decomposition rates that JCD may have died later than originally determined, as late as May, 1995. As such this new range of the possible time of death (as late as the spring of 1995) does not correspond as closely with the date of \"River Guy\" sightings.\n\nIn 2010, the distinctive goat pendant was traced by the Rock County Sheriff's detective working the case to a Janesville area craftsman. Active in the local metal scene, the man claims to have made the pendant as well as sold or given similar items to a dozen people. However none of these people could be traced back as John Clinton Doe.\n\nIsotopic analysis of the bones conducted in 2014 with the help of Smithsonian Institution scientists showed that the young man was from or had spent a significant amount of time in the Midwestern area, around the Great Lakes, which includes the states of Wisconsin, Illinois, Minnesota and Michigan. This, with the provenance of the goat pendant leads investigators to believe that the decedent was not living very far from where he was found.\n\n"}
{"id": "254470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254470", "title": "Santa Compaña", "text": "Santa Compaña\n\nThe Santa Compaña (\"Holy Company\") is a deep-rooted mythical belief in rural northwest of Iberia: Galicia, Asturias (Spain) and Northern Portugal.\n\nIt is also known under the names of \"Estadea\", \"Estantiga'\" (\"estantigua\" in Spanish, from Latin \"hostis antiquus\", meaning \"ancient host\"), \"Rolda\", \"As da nuite\" (The Night Ones), \"Pantalla\", \"Avisóns\", \"Pantaruxada\"; all of which are terms that denote the presence of the dead in the world of the living. In Asturias it's prominently well-known as Güestia, which is related to the Asturian word \"güeste\" (host in English language).\n\nAlthough many different versions of the Santa Compaña can be found, the common belief is that of a procession of the dead (or a procession of souls that are in torment) that wander through the village paths of a parish beginning at midnight wearing white, hooded cloaks. \n\nThe procession is led by a living person (usually a parishioner of a particular church) carrying a cross or a cauldron of holy water (sometimes he carries both), followed by several of the souls of the dead holding lit candles. Although these souls are not always seen, it is said that the scent of melted wax can be detected on the breeze which appears as they pass to warn of their presence. The living leader of the procession is compelled by a supernatural force (in this case, a mysterious curse) to go out every night and walk by towns, villages and forests; but having no recollection of it the following day. By the same token, because the living person is unaware of what he is doing, there is no chance that he will renounce his duty in leading the Santa Compaña as the curse that forces him to lead the procession puts him into a trance every midnight. The procession ends before daybreak and the living leader of the procession returns to his bed with no memory of what occurred the next morning but feeling very tired and weary as though he did not get adequate rest. He can only be freed of the curse if he manages to come across another person during the procession to carry the cross or the cauldron (or both), as the curse will be passed onto that person. It is said that if the curse leader does not pass the curse onto another person in a matter of weeks, he will eventually grow pale, thin and sickly and eventually die and the curse will be passed onto another parishioner that will unknowingly receive the curse.\n\nTo avoid receiving the curse, the person who sees the Santa Compaña pass by must quickly draw \"Solomon's Circle\" on the ground using chalk (a circle with Seal of Solomon inside a six-pointed star, which can be changed into a cross) and enter it, or he can also lie face-down until the procession passes. Another way to evade the Santa Compaña is to tie a black cat in the middle of the Santa Compaña's path and run away quickly from it, or to perform diverse warding symbols with both hands such as the horn gesture (extending the index and little fingers and to contract the rest of fingers) or the fig sign (which consists of closing the fist and putting the thumb between the index and middle fingers). The person leading the procession can be a man or a woman—this all depends on whether the patron saint of the parish is male or female. The Santa Compaña's purpose is to announce death and its primary mission is to visit the homes where death is due.\n\nAccording to popular belief, apart from the living procession leader, the Santa Compaña can't be seen but can be felt, eliciting a shiver or shudder as it passes, accompanied with a sensation of intense danger. It is also believed that those who can see the Santa Compaña are people who, when baptised by the priest of their parish, were mistakenly anointed with holy oil for the sick instead of chrism. In other versions, it is believed that they are people with special sensibilities who are able to see hidden things. Some people are unable to see the souls in the procession but can see the light of their candles, floating in the air like ignis fatuus or will-o'-the-wisp (similar to the \"spook lights\" in the rural USA or \"jack o'lantern\" in the rural UK) as they move along their path.\n\nIt may be related to Odin's Wild Hunt, or the Welsh Hounds of Annwn and the Breton Celtic westward processions of the dead to the End of the World. It is equivalent to the Irish Banshee and Breton Ankou.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2850786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2850786", "title": "Sasha Bordeaux", "text": "Sasha Bordeaux\n\nSasha Bordeaux is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. The character was at first primarily associated with superhero Batman, and she has subsequently evolved an association with Checkmate in two of its incarnations. Sasha Bordeaux was created by Greg Rucka and Shawn Martinbrough, and first appeared in \"Detective Comics\" #751 (December 2000).\n\nSasha Bordeaux first appeared as an attractive young martial artist who was hired as Bruce Wayne's bodyguard by WayneCorp's second in command, Lucius Fox, albeit against Wayne's wishes. Wayne at first tried to avoid her, but she kept on doing her job.\n\nShe eventually became suspicious of his constant late-night disappearances and did some searching, and was shocked to find that Bruce Wayne was secretly Batman. Knowing he couldn't legally fire her for knowing of his secret identity, Batman began training her to become his apprentice. After weeks of hard work, she became fit enough to go out with him on patrol in a suit, though he still treated her as a total stranger both as Batman and as Bruce Wayne. During this time, she fell in love with him, even as he insisted on having her around while he dated other women.\n\nOne night while Batman and Bordeaux were out on patrol, the assassin David Cain lured Wayne's ex-girlfriend Vesper Fairchild to Wayne Manor and killed her, framing Wayne in the process. Both Wayne and Bordeaux were charged with murder, and Sasha refused to exonerate herself by giving up Wayne's secret despite the fact that they had been patrolling separate areas at the time of the murder and therefore even she couldn't be sure Bruce hadn't killed Vesper. They were both arraigned and held without bail while awaiting trial. After a while, Batman escaped to leave his alter ego behind, leaving Bordeaux inside Blackgate prison. Although Sasha was briefly offered her freedom if she testified against Bruce Wayne— even contemplating taking the deal after Bruce abandoned her— a meeting with Alfred Pennyworth, who had recently returned to Gotham after spending time away, left her resolved to reject the offer. Alfred helped her realize that Bruce had truly valued her work, rather than using her without any thought for herself, as otherwise he would never have allowed her to accompany him as Batman. Batman eventually confronted those who framed him, and Wayne and Sasha were cleared of all charges.\n\nWhile in prison custody, Sasha was severely wounded by another prisoner and would have died had the government agency Checkmate not given her medical treatment. They faked her death and offered to give her a new name and identity (complete with plastic surgery) if she would work for them. With no other options, she agreed.\n\nBatman tirelessly searched for Sasha, not believing she had died in prison. To facilitate this, he disrupted all of Checkmate's operations in Gotham City. The group eventually organized a meeting between the two, where Wayne confessed that he loved her. Sasha, though feeling the same way, realized that her new life would prevent them from being together and told him to let her go.\n\nOver time, Bordeaux rose through the ranks of Checkmate to become right hand to Maxwell Lord, the group's leader. Lord later hijacked the Brother I satellite that Batman had created to monitor all superhuman activity. Brother I itself had recently become sentient due to the actions of Alexander Luthor, Jr. as a part of his plans for the Infinite Crisis. He also created an army of cyborgs known as OMACs (humans transformed by a virus) programmed to hunt and kill all superhumans and/or specific targets. During his rule, Lord killed all who opposed him, assisted by Brother I who monitored for rebellion. Sasha feigned loyalty to stay alive, but broke the pretense when Lord killed his former ally Blue Beetle (Ted Kord) and ordered Sasha to dispose of his corpse. Filled with hatred for herself and Lord, she sent Kord's trademark goggles to Batman as part of a message detailing Lord's madness.\n\nWhen Brother I revealed Sasha's betrayal, he sent out an OMAC squad, who found Sasha and Batman in an abandoned warehouse just after they shared a kiss. The OMACs' goal of killing Batman and taking Sasha only partly succeeded, as Batman escaped. Lord, realizing he could not get any information out of Sasha, imprisoned her and brainwashed Superman in an attempt to kill Batman. To stop this, Wonder Woman snapped Lord's neck, killing him instantly.\n\nWith the help of another imprisoned agent, Jessica Midnight (who had attempted to assassinate Lord earlier), Bordeaux escaped and set out to kill Lord, unaware he was already dead. As they were on their way out, an OMAC attacked the two and impaled Bordeaux. This attack somehow activated her latent inner programming, turning her into an OMAC cyborg. However, she retained most of her human features, although her skin now resembled a metallic coating and one of her eye sockets was empty. She also found that she retained her free will; unlike the other OMACs, she was not under Brother I's control. \n\nWith Lord's death, Brother I rechristened itself \"Brother Eye\" and activated all the remaining OMACs to kill Earth's superhumans. Bordeaux contacted the other various factions of Checkmate who had left when Lord took over, apologizing for Lord and asking them to rejoin.\n\nShe then created a computer virus and hooked herself up to the Brother Eye satellite. The virus, along with a massive electromagnetic pulse blast created by the various superheroes, disabled the majority of the OMACs. Brother I escaped with 200,000 OMACS. \n\nShe later reunited with Batman, who comforted her when she told him she was now a machine.\n\nEventually, with the aid of the new Blue Beetle, Batman located Brother Eye. He then gathered a team of heroes, including Bordeaux, to attempt to destroy it (\"Infinite Crisis\" #5 and #6). The attack sent Brother Eye crashing to Earth, but the satellite's central memory remained intact. With the various superheroes needed elsewhere, Batman tasked Bordeaux with destroying Brother Eye once and for all. Sasha resisted the machine's brainwashing long enough to blow it up. She survived the blast, albeit at the cost of the majority of her OMAC shell.\n\nOne year after \"Infinite Crisis\", Bordeaux became the \"Black Queen\" of the Checkmate organization. In the first issue of the new \"Checkmate\" comic series, she led a group of operatives into a Kobra stronghold. As the new series began, Bordeaux was depicted as a cold-blooded killer; it remains to be seen whether this was an aftereffect of her conversion to a cyborg or due to events of the previous year. Her \"the ends justify the means\" attitude towards the success of Checkmate missions put her into conflict with Alan Scott. She was also in conflict with several of her Checkmate colleagues, particularly Fire and Mister Terrific, with whom she was romantically involved. As the series progressed, this aspect of her personality was rarely referred to again. In a 2007 story arc involving The Outsiders, Bordeaux suffered extreme torture at the hands of Chang Tzu who wished to learn more about her cybernetic implants. Although she (barely) survived this encounter, subsequent issues have had her fighting to regain her confidence, especially when the healing process resulted in even more of her body becoming cybernetic.\n\nIn \"Manhunter\" (#27, January 2007), Sasha intervened in the trial of Wonder Woman (for murdering Maxwell Lord) by secretly delivering exonerating evidence to Wonder Woman's lawyer, Kate Spencer.\n\nDuring the events of \"Final Crisis\", Sasha formed a small resistance team that included Snapper Carr, her current romantic interest Mister Terrific, an artificial intelligence, and later the villain Cheetah. They caused much damage against the conquering forces of Darkseid, mainly utilizing Snapper's teleportation power. When Sasha was infected by the Anti-Life Formula, the OMAC nanites in her body put her in a coma to prevent the spread of the infection. After Snapper's powers were neutralized, Mister Terrific realized they had to re-activate all the OMACS that were left. The only way to do this was to revive Sasha and retrieve the OMAC codes from her nanites. The activation of the OMACs is successful, but the revival caused Sasha's biological processes to shut down.\n\nIn the 2009 miniseries \"JSA Vs. Kobra\", Mr. Terrific and Dr. Mid-Nite were keeping a comatose Sasha alive via life support in hopes of being able to cure her. By the end of the series, Sasha was restored to life and passionately kissed Mr. Terrific. This was her last appearance for six years.\n\nA new interpretation of Sasha debuted in \"Wonder Woman\" volume 3 as part of the DC Rebirth initiative. In the new continuity, Sasha is a superior to Etta Candy, and is introduced discussing Steve Trevor's mission in the African jungle and a nearby sighting of Wonder Woman. After Etta leaves, she is revealed to be linked to an evil artificial intelligence which is monitoring Sasha and attempting to manipulate Wonder Woman from afar.\n\nEven before her transformation, Sasha was a skilled hand-to-hand combatant and marksman. She was skilled enough that Batman allowed her to serve as a sidekick of sorts.\n\nWhen Chang Tzu captured Sasha and studied her, he discovered that she had the following abilities:\n\n\nSasha also has the ability to turn her nanorobotic components on and off at will. They also help her to regenerate from damage she sustains, particularly to those non-biological parts of her body.\n"}
{"id": "3406017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3406017", "title": "Secular ethics", "text": "Secular ethics\n\nSecular ethics is a branch of moral philosophy in which ethics is based solely on human faculties such as logic, empathy, reason or moral intuition, and not derived from supernatural revelation or guidance—the source of ethics in many religions. Secular ethics refers to any ethical system that does not draw on the supernatural, and includes humanism, secularism and freethinking. A classical example of literature on secular ethics is the Kural text, authored by the ancient Tamil Indian philosopher Valluvar who lived during the 1st century BCE.\n\nSecular ethical systems comprise a wide variety of ideas to include the normativity of social contracts, some form of attribution of intrinsic moral value, intuition-based deontology, cultural moral relativism, and the idea that scientific reasoning can reveal objective moral truth (known as science of morality).\n\nSecular ethics frameworks are not always mutually exclusive from theological values. For example, the Golden Rule or a commitment to non-violence, could be supported by both religious and secular frameworks. Secular ethics systems can also vary within the societal and cultural norms of a specific time period.\n\nDespite the width and diversity of their philosophical views, secular ethicists generally share one or more principles:\n\nMany of these tenets are applied in the science of morality, the use of the scientific method to answer moral questions. Various thinkers have framed morality as questions of empirical truth to be explored in a scientific context. The science is related to ethical naturalism, a type of ethical realism.\n\nIn \"How Good People Make Tough Choices: Resolving the Dilemmas of Ethical Living\", Rushworth Kidder identifies four general characteristics of an ethical code:\n\nHumanists endorse universal morality based on the commonality of human nature, and that knowledge of right and wrong is based on our best understanding of our individual and joint interests, rather than stemming from a transcendental or arbitrarily local source, therefore rejecting faith completely as a basis for action. The humanist ethics goal is a search for viable individual, social and political principles of conduct, judging them on their ability to enhance human well-being and individual responsibility, thus ultimately eliminating human suffering.\n\nThe International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU) is the world-wide umbrella organization for those adhering to the Humanist life stance.\n\nHumanism is known to adopt principles of the Golden Rule.\n\nThere are those who state that religion is not necessary for moral behavior at all. The Dalai Lama has said that compassion and affection are human values independent of religion: \"We need these human values. I call these secular ethics, secular beliefs. There’s no relationship with any particular religion. Even without religion, even as nonbelievers, we have the capacity to promote these things.\"\n\nThose who are unhappy with the negative orientation of traditional religious ethics believe that prohibitions can only set the absolute limits of what a society is willing to tolerate from people at their worst, not guide them towards achieving their best. In other words, someone who follows all these prohibitions has just barely avoided being a criminal, not acted as a positive influence on the world. They conclude that rational ethics can lead to a fully expressed ethical life, while religious prohibitions are insufficient.\n\nThat does not mean secular ethics and religion are mutually exclusive. In fact, many principles, such as the Golden Rule, are present in both systems, and some religious people, as well as some Deists, prefer to adopt a rational approach to ethics.\n\nThe Humanist Manifestos are three manifestos, the first published in 1933, that outline the philosophical views and stances of humanists. Integral to the manifestos is a lack of supernatural guidance.\n\nThere are numerous versions of Alternatives to the Ten Commandments\n\nThe Girl Scout law is as follows:\n\n\"Midshipmen are persons of integrity: They stand for that which is right.\n\nThe Minnesota Principles were proposed \"by the Minnesota Center for Corporate Responsibility in 1992 as a guide to international business activities\":\n\n\nThe Four-Way Test is the \"linchpin of Rotary International's ethical practice.\" It acts as a test of thoughts as well as actions. It asks, \"Of the things we think, say, or do\":\n\n\nAs the United States Constitution prohibits the establishment of a government religion, US military codes of conduct typically contain no religious overtones.\n\nThe West Point honor code states that \"A cadet will not lie, cheat, steal, or tolerate those who do.\" The non-toleration clause is key in differentiating it from numerous other codes.\n\nWhether or not the relationships between animals found in nature and between people in early human evolution can provide a basis for human morality is a persistently unresolved question. Thomas Henry Huxley wrote in \"Evolution and Ethics\" in 1893 that people make a grave error in trying to create moral ideas from the behavior of animals in nature. He remarked:\nFamous biologist and writer Stephen Jay Gould has stated that \"answers will not be read passively from nature\" and \"[t]he factual state of the world does not teach us how we, with our powers for good and evil, should alter or preserve it in the most ethical manner\". Thus, he concluded that ideas of morality should come from a form of higher mental reason, with nature viewed as an independent phenomenon.\n\nEvolutionary ethics is not the only way to involve nature with ethics. For example, there are ethically realist theories like ethical naturalism. Related to ethical naturalism is also the idea that ethics are best explored, not just using the lens of philosophy, but science as well (a science of morality).\n\nThiruvalluvar, a South Indian poet-philosopher of the pre-Christian era and the author of the Kural, a non-denominational Classical Tamil work on secular ethics and morality, is believed to have lived about the 1st century BCE. While others of his time chiefly focused on the praise of God, culture and the ruler of the land, Valluvar focused on the moral behaviors of the common individual. Valluvar limits his theistic teachings to the introductory chapter of the Kural text, the \"Praise of God.\" Throughout the text thereafter, he focuses on the everyday moral behaviors of an individual, thus making the text a secular one. Even in the introductory chapter, he refrains from mentioning the name of any particular god but only addresses God in generic terms as \"the Creator,\" \"the truly Wise One,\" \"the One of eight-fold excellence,\" and so forth. Translated into about 80 world languages, the Kural text remains one of the most widely translated non-religious works in the world. Praised as \"the Universal Veda,\" it emphasizes on the ethical edifices of non-violence, moral vegetarianism or veganism, casteless human brotherhood, absence of desires, path of righteousness and truth, and so forth, besides covering a wide range of subjects such as moral codes of rulers, friendship, agriculture, knowledge and wisdom, sobriety, love, and domestic life.\n\nGeorge Jacob Holyoake's 1896 publication \"English Secularism\" defines secularism thus:\n\n\"Secularism is a code of duty pertaining to this life, founded on considerations purely human, and intended mainly for those who find theology indefinite or inadequate, unreliable or unbelievable. Its essential principles are three: (1) The improvement of this life by material means. (2) That science is the available Providence of man. (3) That it is good to do good. Whether there be other good or not, the good of the present life is good, and it is good to seek that good.\"\n\nHolyoake held that secularism should take no interest at all in religious questions (as they were irrelevant), and was thus to be distinguished from strong freethought and atheism. In this he disagreed with Charles Bradlaugh, and the disagreement split the secularist movement between those who argued that anti-religious movements and activism was not necessary or desirable and those who argued that it was.\nFriedrich Nietzsche based his work on ethics on the rejection of Christianity and authority in general, or on moral nihilism. Nietzsche's many works spoke of a Master-Slave Morality, The Will to Power, or something stronger that overcomes the weaker and Darwinistic adaptation and will to live. Nietzsche expressed his moral philosophy throughout his collection of works; the most important of these to secular ethics being \"The Gay Science\" (in which the famous God is dead phrase was first used), \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", \"Beyond Good and Evil\" and \"On The Genealogy of Morals\". \nOn ethics, Kant wrote works that both described the nature of universal principles and also sought to demonstrate the procedure of their application. Kant maintained that only a \"good will\" is morally praiseworthy, so that doing what appears to be ethical for the wrong reasons is not a morally good act. Kant's emphasis on one's intent or reasons for acting is usually contrasted with the utilitarian tenet that the goodness of an action is to be judged solely by its results. Utilitarianism is a hypothetical imperative, if one wants _____, they must do ______. Contrast this with the Kantian ethic of the categorical imperative, where the moral act is done for its own sake, and is framed: One must do ______ or alternatively, one must not do ______.\n\nFor instance, under Kantian ethics, if a person were to give money to charity because failure to do so would result in some sort of punishment from a god or Supreme Being, then the charitable donation would not be a morally good act. A dutiful action must be performed solely out of a sense of duty; any other motivation profanes the act and strips it of its moral quality.\nUtilitarianism (from the Latin utilis, useful) is a theory of ethics that prescribes the quantitative maximization of good consequences for a population. It is a form of consequentialism. This good to be maximized is usually happiness, pleasure, or preference satisfaction. Though some utilitarian theories might seek to maximize other consequences, these consequences generally have something to do with the welfare of people (or of people and nonhuman animals). For this reason, utilitarianism is often associated with the term welfarist consequentialism.\n\nIn utilitarianism it is the \"end result\" which is fundamental (as opposed to Kantian ethics discussed above). Thus using the same scenario as above, it would be irrelevant whether the person giving money to charity was doing so out of personal or religious conviction, the mere fact that the charitable donation is being made is sufficient for it to be classified as \"morally good\".\n"}
{"id": "142181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142181", "title": "Seed bank", "text": "Seed bank\n\nA seed bank (also seedbank or seeds bank) stores seeds to preserve genetic diversity; hence it is a type of gene bank. There are many reasons to store seeds. One is to have available the genes that plant breeders need to increase yield, disease resistance, drought tolerance, nutritional quality, taste, etc. of crops. Another is to forestall loss of genetic diversity in rare or imperiled plant species in an effort to conserve biodiversity ex situ. Many plants that were used centuries ago by humans are used less frequently now; seed banks offer a way to preserve that historical and cultural value. Collections of seeds stored at constant low temperature and low moisture are guarded against loss of genetic resources that are otherwise maintained in situ or in field collections. These alternative \"living\" collections can be damaged by natural disasters, outbreaks of disease, or war. Seed banks are considered seed libraries, containing valuable information about evolved strategies to combat plant stress, and can be used to create genetically modified versions of existing seeds. The work of seed banks spans decades and even centuries. Most seed banks are publicly funded and seeds are usually available for research that benefits the public.\n\nSeeds are living creatures and keeping them viable over the long term requires adjusting storage moisture and temperature appropriately. As they mature on the mother plant, many seeds attain an innate ability to survive drying. Survival of these so-called 'orthodox' seeds can be extended by dry, low temperature storage. The level of dryness and coldness depends mostly on the longevity that is required and the investment in infrastructure that is affordable. Practical guidelines from a US scientist in the 1950s and 1960s, James Harrington, are known as 'Thumb Rules.' The 'Hundreds Rule' guides that the sum of relative humidity and temperature (in Fahrenheit) should be less than 100 for the sample to survive 5 years. Another rule is that reduction of water content by 1% or temperature by 10 degrees Fahrenheit will double the seed life span. Research from the 1990s showed that there is a limit to the beneficial effect of drying or cooling, so it must not be overdone.\n\nUnderstanding the effect of water content and temperature on seed longevity, the Food and Agriculture division of the United Nations and a consultancy group called Bioversity International developed a set of standards for international seed banks to preserve seed longevity. The document advocates drying seeds to about 20% relative humidity, sealing seeds in high quality moisture-proof containers, and storing seeds at -20 degrees Celsius. These conditions are frequently referred to as 'conventional' storage protocols. Seeds from our most important species - corn, wheat, rice, soybean, pea, tomato, broccoli, melon, sunflower, etc.—can be stored in this way. However, there are many species that produce seeds that do not survive the drying or low temperature of conventional storage protocols. These species must be stored cryogenically. Seeds of citrus fruits, coffee, avocado, cocoa, coconut, papaya, oak, walnut and willow are a few examples of species that should be preserved cryogenically.\n\nLike everything, seeds eventually degrade with time. It is hard to predict when seeds lose viability and so most reputable seed banks monitor germination potential during storage. When seed germination percentage decreases below a prescribed amount, the seeds need to be replanted and fresh seeds collected for another round of long-term storage.\n\n\nIn-situ conservation of seed-producing plant species is another conservation strategy. In-situ conservation involves the creation of National Parks, National Forests, and National Wildlife Refuges as a way of preserving the natural habitat of the targeted seed-producing organisms. In-situ conservation of agricultural resources is performed on-farm. This also allows the plants to continue to evolve with their environment through natural selection.\n\nAn arboretum stores trees by planting them at a protected site.\n\nA less expensive, community-supported seed library can save local genetic material.\n\nThe phenomenon of seeds remaining dormant within the soil is well known and documented (Hills and Morris 1992). Detailed information on the role of such “seed banks” in northern Ontario, however, is extremely limited, and research is required to determine the species and abundance of seeds in the soil across a range of forest types, as well as to determine the function of the seed bank in post-disturbance vegetation dynamics. Comparison tables of seed density and diversity are presented for the boreal and deciduous forest types and the research that has been conducted is discussed. This review includes detailed discussions of: (1) seed bank dynamics, (2) physiology of seeds in a seed bank, (3) boreal and deciduous forest seed banks, (4) seed bank dynamics and succession, and (5) recommendations for initiating a seed bank study in northern Ontario.\n\nSeeds may be viable for hundreds and even thousands of years. The oldest carbon-14-dated seed that has grown into a viable plant was a Judean date palm seed about 2,000 years old, recovered from excavations at the palace of Herod the Great in Israel.\n\nIn February 2012, Russian scientists announced they had regenerated a narrow leaf campion (Silene stenophylla) from a 32,000-year-old seed. The seed was found in a burrow under Siberian permafrost along with 800,000 other seeds. Seed tissue was grown in test tubes until it could be transplanted to soil. This exemplifies the long-term viability of DNA under proper conditions.\n\nConservation efforts such as seed banks are expected to play a greater role as climate change progresses.. Seed banks offer communities a source of climate-resilient seeds to withstand changing local climates.. As challenges arise from climate change, community based seed banks can improve access to a diverse selection of locally adapted crops while also enhancing indigenous understandings of plant management such as seed selection, treatment, storage, and distribution.\n\nThere are about 6 million accessions, or samples of a particular population, stored as seeds in about 1,300 genebanks throughout the world as of 2006. This amount represents a small fraction of the world's biodiversity, and many regions of the world have not been fully explored.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8078078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8078078", "title": "Sir Hyde Parker, 5th Baronet", "text": "Sir Hyde Parker, 5th Baronet\n\nVice-Admiral Sir Hyde Parker, 5th Baronet (25 February 1714 – 1782) was a British naval commander.\n\nParker was born at Tredington (which was then in Worcestershire). His father, a clergyman, was a son of Sir Henry Parker. His paternal grandfather had married a daughter of Alexander Hyde, Bishop of Salisbury. He began his career at sea in the merchant service. Entering the Royal Navy at the age of 24, he was made lieutenant in 1744, and in 1748 he was made post-captain. In his royal navy career, he captured a Spanish Galleon that was worth £600,000 . This gave his family his wealth. At the current moment, his family live in the south-wing of Melford Hall.\n\nIn October 1755 Hyde Parker commissioned the newly-launched post ship . A year later, in her he captured the French privateeer \"Très Vénėrable\".\n\nDuring the latter part of the Seven Years' War he served in the East Indies, taking part in the capture of Pondicherry in 1761 and of Manila in 1762. In the latter year Parker with two ships captured one of the valuable Spanish plate ships in her voyage between Acapulco and Manila.\n\nIn 1778 he became Rear-Admiral and went to North American waters as second-in-command. For some time before George Rodney's arrival he was in command on the Leeward Islands station, and conducted a skilful campaign against the French at Martinique.\n\nIn 1781, having returned home and become Vice-Admiral, he fell in with a Dutch fleet of about his own force, though far better equipped, near the Dogger Bank on 5 August 1781. After a fiercely contested battle, in which neither combatant gained any advantage, both sides drew off. Parker considered that he had not been properly equipped for his task, and insisted on resigning his command.\n\nIn 1782 he accepted the East Indies command, though he had just succeeded to the family baronetcy. On the outward voyage his flagship \"Cato\" was lost with all on board.\n\nHe was succeeded by his older son Harry, the sixth Baronet. Parker's second son was Admiral Sir Hyde Parker (1739–1807).\n"}
{"id": "325286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325286", "title": "Strategy dynamics", "text": "Strategy dynamics\n\nThe word ‘dynamics’ appears frequently in discussions and writing about strategy, and is used in two distinct, though equally important senses.\n\nThe dynamics of strategy and performance concerns the ‘content’ of strategy – initiatives, choices, policies and decisions adopted in an attempt to improve performance, and the results that arise from these managerial behaviors.\n\nThe dynamic model of the strategy process is a way of understanding how strategic actions occur. It recognizes that strategic planning is dynamic, that is, strategy-making involves a complex pattern of actions and reactions. It is partially planned and partially unplanned.\n\nA literature search shows the first of these senses to be both the earliest and most widely used meaning of ‘strategy dynamics’, though that is not to diminish the importance of the dynamic view of the strategy process.\n\nThe static assessment of strategy and performance, and its tools and frameworks dominate research, \ntextbooks and practice in the field. They stem from a presumption dating back to before the 1980s that market and industry conditions determine how firms in a sector perform on average, and the scope for any firm to do better or worse than that average. E.g. the airline industry is notoriously unprofitable, but some firms are spectacularly profitable exceptions.\n\nThe ‘industry forces’ paradigm was established most firmly by Michael Porter, (1980) in his seminal book ‘Competitive Strategy’, the ideas of which still form the basis of strategy analysis in many consulting firms and investment companies.\nRichard Rumelt (1991) was amongst the first to challenge this presumption of the power of ‘industry forces’, and it has since become well understood that business factors are more important drivers of performance than are industry factors – in essence, this means you can do well in difficult industries, and struggle in industries where others do well. Although the relative importance of industry factors and firm-specific factors continues to be researched, the debate is now essentially over – management of strategy matters.\n\nThe increasing interest in how some businesses in an industry perform better than others led to the emergence of the ‘resource based view’ (RBV) of strategy (Wernerfelt, 1984; Barney, 1991; Grant, 1991), which seeks to discover the firm-specific sources of superior performance – an interest that has increasingly come to dominate research.\n\nThe debate about the relative influence of industry and business factors on performance, and the RBV-based explanations for superior performance both, however, pass over a more serious problem. This concerns exactly what the ‘performance’ \"is\" that management seeks to improve. Would you prefer, for example, (A) to make $15m per year indefinitely, or (B) $12m this year, increasing by 20% a year, starting with the same resources?\n\nNearly half a century ago, Edith Penrose (1959) pointed out that superior profitability (e.g. return on sales or return on assets) was neither interesting to investors – who value the prospect of increasing future cash flows – nor sustainable over time. Profitability is not entirely unimportant – it does after all provide the investment in new resources to enable growth to occur. More recently, Rugman and Verbeke (2002) have reviewed the implications of this observation for research in strategy. Richard Rumelt (2007) has again raised the importance of making progress with the issue of strategy dynamics, describing it as still ‘the next frontier … underresearched, underwritten about, and underunderstood’.\n\nThe essential problem is that tools explaining why firm A performs better than firm B at a point in time are unlikely to explain why firm B is growing its performance more rapidly than firm A.\n\nThis is not just of theoretical concern, but matters to executives too – efforts by the management of firm B to match A’s profitability could well destroy its ability to grow profits, for example. A further practical problem is that many of the static frameworks do not provide sufficiently fine-grained guidance on strategy to help raise performance. For example, an investigation that identifies an attractive opportunity to serve a specific market segment with specific products or services, delivered in a particular way is unlikely to yield fundamentally different answers from one year to the next. Yet strategic management has much to do from month to month to ensure the business system develops strongly so as to take that opportunity quickly and safely.\nWhat is needed, is a set of tools that explain how performance changes over time, and how to improve its future trajectory – i.e. a dynamic model of strategy and performance. \n\nTo develop a dynamic model of strategy and performance requires components that explain how factors change over time. Most of the relationships on which business analysis are based describe relationships that are static and stable over time. For example, “profits = revenue minus costs”, or “market share = our sales divided by total market size” are relationships that are true. Static strategy tools seek to solve the strategy problem by extending this set of stable relationships, e.g. “profitability = some complex function of product development capability”.\nSince a company’s sales clearly change over time, there must be something further back up the causal chain that makes this happen. One such item is ‘customers’ – if the firm has more customers now than last month, then (everything else being equal), it will have more sales and profits.\n\nThe number of ‘Customers’ at any time, however, cannot be calculated from anything else. It is one example of a factor with a unique characteristic, known as an ‘asset-stock’. This critical feature is that it accumulates over time, so “customers today = customers yesterday +/- customers won and lost”. This is not a theory or statistical observation, but is axiomatic of the way the world works. Other examples include cash (changed by cash-in and cash-out-flows), staff (changed by hiring and attrition), capacity, product range and dealers. Many intangible factors behave in the same way, e.g. reputation and staff skills.\nDierickx and Cool (1989) point out that this causes serious problems for explaining performance over time:\n\nThe consequences of these features is that relationships in a business system are highly non-linear. Statistical analysis will not, then, be able meaningfully to confirm any causal explanation for the number of customers at any moment in time. If that is true then statistical analysis also cannot say anything useful about any performance that depends on customers or on other accumulating asset-stocks – which is always the case.\n\nFortunately, a method known as system dynamics captures both the math of asset-stock accumulation (i.e. resource- and capability-building), and the interdependence between these components (Forrester, 1961; Sterman, 2000).\nThe asset-stocks relevant to strategy performance are resources [things we have] and capabilities [things we are good at doing]. This makes it possible to connect back to the resource-based view, though with one modification. RBV asserts that any resource which is clearly identifiable, and can easily be acquired or built, cannot be a source of competitive advantage, so only resources or capabilities that are valuable, rare, hard to imitate or buy, and embedded in the organization [the ‘VRIO’ criteria] can be relevant to explaining performance, for example reputation or product development capability. Yet day-to-day performance must reflect the simple, tangible resources such as customers, capacity and cash. VRIO resources may be important also, but it is not possible to trace a causal path from reputation or product development capability to performance outcomes without going via the tangible resources of customers and cash.\n\nWarren (2002, 2007) brought together the specification of resources [tangible and intangible] and capabilities with the math of system dynamics to assemble a framework for strategy dynamics and performance with the following elements:\n\n\nThis set of relationships gives rise to an ‘architecture’ that depicts, both graphically and mathematically, the core of how a business or other organization develops and performs over time. To this can be added other important extensions, including :\n\nAccording to many introductory strategy textbooks, strategic thinking can be divided into two segments : strategy formulation and strategy implementation. Strategy formulation is done first, followed by implementation.\n\nStrategy formulation involves:\nThis three-step strategy formation process is sometimes referred to as determining where you are now, determining where you want to go, and then determining how to get there.\n\nThe next phase, according to this linear model is the implementation of the strategy. This involves:\n\nSeveral theorists have recognized a problem with this static model of the strategy process: it is not how strategy is developed in real life. Strategy is actually a dynamic and interactive process. Some of the earliest challenges to the planned strategy approach came from Linblom in the 1960s and Quinn in the 1980s.\n\nCharles Lindblom (1959) claimed that strategy is a fragmented process of serial and incremental decisions. He viewed strategy as an informal process of mutual adjustment with little apparent coordination.\n\nJames Brian Quinn (1978) developed an approach that he called \"logical incrementalism\". He claimed that strategic management involves guiding actions and events towards a conscious strategy in a step-by-step process. Managers nurture and promote strategies that are themselves changing. In regard to the nature of strategic management he says: \"\"Constantly integrating the simultaneous incremental process of strategy formulation and implementation is the central art of effective strategic management\".\" (page 145). Whereas Lindblom saw strategy as a disjointed process without conscious direction, Quinn saw the process as fluid but controllable.\n\nJoseph Bower (1970) and Robert Burgelman (1980) took this one step further. Not only are strategic decisions made incrementally rather than as part of a grand unified vision, but according to them, this multitude of small decisions are made by numerous people in all sections and levels of the organization.\n\nHenry Mintzberg (1978) made a distinction between deliberate strategy and emergent strategy. Emergent strategy originates not in the mind of the strategist, but in the interaction of the organization with its environment. He claims that emergent strategies tend to exhibit a type of convergence in which ideas and actions from multiple sources integrate into a pattern. This is a form of organizational learning, in fact, on this view, organizational learning is one of the core functions of any business enterprise (See Peter Senge's \"The Fifth Discipline\" (1990).)\n\nConstantinos Markides (1999) describes strategy formation and implementation as an ongoing, never-ending, integrated process requiring continuous reassessment and reformation.\n\nA particularly insightful model of strategy process dynamics comes from J. Moncrieff (1999). He recognized that strategy is partially deliberate and partially unplanned, though whether the resulting performance is better for being planned or not is unclear. The unplanned element comes from two sources : “emergent strategies” result from the emergence of opportunities and threats in the environment and “Strategies in action” are ad hoc actions by many people from all parts of the organization. These multitudes of small actions are typically not intentional, not teleological, not formal, and not even recognized as strategic. They are emergent from within the organization, in much the same way as “emergent strategies” are emergent from the environment. However, it is again not clear whether, or under what circumstances, strategies would be better if more planned.\n\nIn this model, strategy is both planned and emergent, dynamic, and interactive. Five general processes interact. They are strategic intention, the organization's response to emergent environmental issues, the dynamics of the actions of individuals within the organization, the alignment of action with strategic intent, and strategic learning.\n\nThe alignment of action with strategic intent (the top line in the diagram), is the blending of strategic intent, emergent strategies, and strategies in action, to produce strategic outcomes. The continuous monitoring of these strategic outcomes produces strategic learning (the bottom line in the diagram). This learning comprises feedback into internal processes, the environment, and strategic intentions. Thus the complete system amounts to a triad of continuously self-regulating feedback loops. Actually, quasi self-regulating is a more appropriate term since the feedback loops can be ignored by the organization. The system is self-adjusting only to the extent that the organization is prepared to learn from the strategic outcomes it creates. This requires effective leadership and an agile, questioning, corporate culture. In this model, the distinction between strategy formation and strategy implementation disappears.\n\nSome detractors claim that these models are too complex to teach. No one will understand the model until they see it in action. Accordingly, the two part linear categorization scheme is probably more valuable in textbooks and lectures.\n\nAlso, there are some implementation decisions that do not fit a dynamic model. They include specific project implementations. In these cases implementation is exclusively tactical and often routinized. Strategic intent and dynamic interactions influence the decision only indirectly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6886414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6886414", "title": "Teymūr Khan Ayromlou", "text": "Teymūr Khan Ayromlou\n\nBrigadier General Teymur-Khan Ayromlou was a prominent figure in the army of Persia at the start of the twentieth century. Queen Tadj ol-Molouk Ayromlou was his daughter. The notable General Muhammad-Husayn Ayrom was his nephew.\n\n"}
{"id": "5770022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5770022", "title": "Vibhavadi Rangsit", "text": "Vibhavadi Rangsit\n\nPrincess Vibhavadi Rangsit (; ; 20 November 1920 – 16 February 1977), née Princess Vibhavadi Rajani (; ) is a Thai writer and a member of the Thai royal family well known for her fiction writing and her developmental work in rural Thailand.\n\nShe was killed by communist insurgents while on a routine visit to assist rural villagers in Surat Thani Province.\n\nPrincess Vibhavadi Rangsit was born on 20 November 1920. She is the eldest daughter of Rajani Chamcharas, Prince Bidyalongkorn and Princess Phonphimonphan Rajani (\"née\" Princess Phimonphan Voravan). She had a sibling, Prince Bhisadej Rajani.\n\nThe princess was educated at the Mater Dei School, Bangkok. After completing her secondary education, she worked as a secretary for her father, who at the time was one of the most respected poets of the Rattanakosin era and wrote under the pseudonym No. Mo. So. (NMS; ). Princess Vibhavadi inherited her father's gift for writing and displayed her ability as early as age of fourteen, when she began writing children's novels. She was well known by her pen-name V. na Pramuanmarg ( \"Wo Na Pramuanmak\"). Her famous first novel, \"Prisana\" ( \"Pritsana\"), was written when she was eighteen and was followed by two sequels and many other novels, some of them historical.\n\nPrincess Vibhavadi Rangsit married Prince Piyarangsit Rangsit (), eldest son of Rangsit Prayurasakdi, Prince of Chainat and Elisabeth Scharnberger, on 6 May 1946. They were the only couple married by King Ananda Mahidol (Rama VIII). She had two daughters:\n\nIn addition to a full writing career, the princess worked for King Bhumibol Adulyadej and Queen Sirikit of Thailand. In 1957, she began accompanying them when they toured the country and was appointed a lady-in-waiting to the queen when they went on their first state visit abroad in 1960. Princess Vibhavadi accompanied them on seven occasions, visiting twenty-five countries.\n\nThe last ten years of her life were dedicated to rural development in southern Thailand under the direction and sponsorship of the king. Her involvement began when the monarch asked her to go to a remote area called Phrasaeng in Surat Thani Province. From that initial visit in 1967, she was committed to the development of neglected areas and the improvement of the villagers' living standards. Sponsored by the king, she led a medical team on many missions to distribute medical supplies, schooling equipment, blankets, and other necessities to villagers in remote and almost inaccessible parts of the South.\n\nPrincess Vibavadi often visited soldiers and Border Patrol Police stationed in areas where there was communist insurgency. On the morning of 16 February 1977, she set off on what should have been a routine visit to villages and to boost the morale of troops at Wiang Sa District in Surat Thani. While flying to her destination in an army helicopter, she heard a radio message saying two Border Patrol Policemen had been wounded by a landmine. She immediately ordered the flight diverted to pick up the wounded men and rush them to a hospital. As they flew at low altitude over Ban Nua Khlong, the helicopter was attacked from the ground by communist insurgents. A burst of heavy machine gun fire crippled the helicopter and seriously wounded the princess. She died one hour later.\n\nPrior to her royally sponsored cremation at Ratchabophit Temple, on 4 April 1977, \"in recognition of her services to the country and the people\", the king elevated her to the higher royal rank of Phra Chao Worawongse Ther Phra Ong Chao (Her Royal Highness) and awarded her the highest level of the most Illustrious Order of the House of Chakri\n\nFebruary 16 is now known in Surat Thani as Vibhavadi Day, and civil and religious ceremonies are held in her honour. Vibhavadi Rangsit Highway, which connects Don Mueang International Airport with Bangkok, was named for the beloved princess.\n\nHer husband, Prince Piya Rangsit, founded the Vibhavadi Rangsit Foundation to ensure the continuity of her charitable work in the southern provinces.\n\nVibhavadi Rangsit Road, which runs from Phaya Thai District in Bangkok to Lam Luk Ka District in Pathumthani was also named in her honour.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2202827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2202827", "title": "Willem Oltmans", "text": "Willem Oltmans\n\nWillem Leonard Oltmans (10 June 1925 – 30 September 2004) was a Dutch investigative journalist and author who did not hesitate to pro-actively intervene in international politics.\n\nDue to the highly critical and opposite stance he often took towards Dutch global politics, as of 1956 the Dutch government conspired to keep him out of work. A lengthy lawsuit (1991–2000) involving the Royal family led to the state having to pay him damages. An erudite orator, the straightforward and uncompromising Oltmans was a striking character in Dutch society.\nOltmans was born into a wealthy family with roots in the Dutch East Indies. During the Second World War he was a member of the Dutch Resistance. \"We blew up a German train,\" Oltmans told the Dutch daily \"Reformatorisch Dagblad\" in 2003 \"Hitler called me a terrorist, but I saw myself as a freedom fighter.\"\n\nHe studied at the prestigious Nyenrode Business University (1946) and Yale University (1948), without graduating. Originally intent on a career with the diplomatic corps of the foreign service, he ended up working in press offices in the Netherlands (1953–1955). He married in 1955 and worked as a freelance reporter in Rome in 1956. There he befriended Indonesian president Sukarno, which started his remarkable career as a controversial journalist.\n\nConvinced that a well connected and informed individual could play a decisive role in the international political arena, he assumed a pro-active part in global political developments, becoming both a news reporter and news maker.\n\nAgainst the will of the Dutch government, Oltmans interviewed Indonesian president Sukarno in 1956. Once he became a confidant of Sukarno and part of his inner circle he took it upon himself to convince the broader public in the Netherlands of the legitimacy of Sukarno's viewpoints. In 1957 he pleaded for the transfer of Dutch New Guinea to Indonesia while in Indonesia. He claimed to have prevented a Dutch war against Indonesia over New Guinea by sending a memo to US president Kennedy. Subsequently Joseph Luns, Minister of Foreign Affairs, covertly tried everything to sabotage Oltmans' career, with considerable success: for a long time, Oltmans was forced to live off welfare. Luns, who now had become Oltmans' nemesis, called him a 'one engine mosquito'. In 1995 Oltmans published his book \"My friend Sukarno\".\n\nHe fought a long lawsuit (1991–2000) against the Dutch state, which he eventually won. In 2000 a commission awarded him eight million guilders (four million dollars) in damages, after taxes. Having paid two million guilders in lawyer's fees, Oltmans bought a penthouse on a canal in Amsterdam and a Steinway piano.\n\nOltmans was based in the USA in the 1960s, where he worked as a reporter for Dutch TV broadcaster NOS and established ties to President Kennedy's closest circle of advisors. After Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas in 1963, Oltmans interviewed the mother of accused assassin Lee Harvey Oswald, Marguerite. Further investigation led him to Oswald's acquaintance George de Mohrenschildt. In 1977 De Mohrenschildt agreed to disclose information to Oltmans, but disappeared from their meeting place and was found dead in Florida a few weeks later.\n\nOn 29 March 1977, De Mohrenschildt was found dead due to apparent self-inflicted shotgun blast to the mouth. L. Richardson Preyer of the House Select Committee on Assassinations investigating the assassination of Kennedy stated that De Mohrenschildt was \"crucial witness, based on the new information that he had\". A few days later, Oltmans told the HSCA that de Mohrenschildt had implicated himself in the conspiracy to kill President Kennedy. And Pat S. Russell, who was De Mohrenschildt's attorney said \"I definitely feel there was a conspiracy and that definitely was the opinion of George.\" Oltmans testified for three hours behind closed doors and told the committee that De Mohrenschildt told him he had discussed the assassination of Kennedy with Lee Harvey Oswald from A to Z. \"De Mohrenschildt told me that Oswald acted at his (De Mohrenschildt's) instructions and that he knew Oswald was going to kill Kennedy,\" Oltmans said. Although Oltmans had given information to the Committee shortly before, De Mohrenschildt's death had released Oltmans from his promise not to divulge certain information. Oltmans revealed that De Mohrenschildt, whom he had known for ten years, had told him that there had been a conspiracy to assassinate Kennedy and that he had played a role in the conspiracy. De Mohrenschildt said that CIA and FBI personnel were involved as well.\n\nOltmans played the role of De Mohrenschildt in Oliver Stone's 1991 film about the assassination, \"JFK\".\n\nIn the 1980s Oltmans endeavoured to create a more balanced opinion in the West about the Soviet Union. Looking for a more poised perspective on the one sided bad image of the evil empire's communist power, he often traveled to Russia. Together with the Kremlin's foreign expert Georgi Arbatov, he wrote the book 'The Soviet position', elaborating on Moscow's perspective on the East-West issues in 1981. The book received much attention and was published in several languages.\n\nAlso in the '80s, Oltmans actively interfered with the postcolonial Dutch-Suriname relationship. He recognised a bilateral relationship based in negative sentiments similar to the Dutch-Indonesian relationship. Intent on playing a mediating role Oltmans traveled to Suriname to interview military dictator Bouterse. He published a book that was banned in Suriname and misunderstood in the Netherlands.\n\nDue to the ban imposed on him by Minister Luns, Oltmans was forced to help support himself through his family's inheritance; the death of his parents (1966 and 1974) and some bad investments caused him financial difficulty. In the late eighties he intended to use his large global network as a consultant to introduce entrepreneurs to Eastern European business opportunities. Through a string of quarrels with his stakeholders this initiative failed completely and Oltmans left for South Africa.\n\nBoth his brothers had settled in South Africa in 1948. He had visited the country regularly and in 1990 decided to settle there permanently. In South Africa he continued his tendency of actively intervening in local politics. His investigative reporting was not appreciated by the shaky South African regime of the time and in August 1992 he was deported on charges of espionage. Oltmans always insisted the Dutch Security Service was involved in his deportation.\n\n\n\n"}
