{"id": "52751091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52751091", "title": "635 Group", "text": "635 Group\n\nThe 635 Group is a network of militant anti-fascists operating in West Yorkshire. Part of the Antifa movement of the 2000s, 635 Group was highly active in suppressing the British People's Party until its dissolution in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "3540442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3540442", "title": "Apple Inc. litigation", "text": "Apple Inc. litigation\n\nThe multinational technology corporation Apple Inc. has been a participant in various legal proceedings and claims since it began operation and, like its competitors and peers, engages in litigation in its normal course of business for a variety of reasons. In particular, Apple is known for and promotes itself as actively and aggressively enforcing its intellectual property interests.\nFrom the 1980s to the present, Apple has been plaintiff or defendant in civil actions in the United States and other countries. Some of these actions have determined significant case law for the information technology industry and many have captured the attention of the public and media. Apple's litigation generally involves intellectual property disputes, but the company has also been a party in lawsuits that include antitrust claims, consumer actions, commercial unfair trade practice suits, defamation claims, and corporate espionage, among other matters.\nApple is a member of the Business Software Alliance (BSA), whose principal activity is trying to stop copyright infringement of software produced by BSA members; Apple treats all its intellectual property as a business asset, engaging in litigation as one method among many to police its assets and to respond to claims by others against it. Apple's portfolio of intellectual property is broad enough, for trademarks alone, to encompass several pages of the company's web site and, in April 2012, it listed 176 general business trademarks, 79 service marks, 7 trademarks related to NeXT products and services, and 2 trademarks related to FileMaker. Apple claims copyright interests in multiple products and processes and owns and licenses patents of various types as well and, while it states it generally does not license its patent portfolio, it does work with third parties having an interest in product interoperability. Steve Jobs alone was a named inventor on over 300 design and utility patents. Between January 2008 and May 2010, Apple Inc. filed more than 350 cases with the U.S. Patent and Trademark office (USPTO) alone, most in opposition to or taking exception to others' use of the terms \"apple\", \"pod\", and \"safari\"; those cases include sellers of apples (the fruit), as well as many others' less unassuming use of the term \"apple\".\n\nThe case \"In re Apple iPod iTunes Antitrust Litigation\" was filed as a class action in 2005 claiming Apple violated the U.S. antitrust statutes in operating a music-downloading monopoly that it created by changing its software design to the proprietary FairPlay encoding in 2004, resulting in other vendors' music files being incompatible with and thus inoperable on the iPod. The suit initially alleged that five days after RealNetworks released in 2004 its technology making its music playable on iPods, Apple changed its software such that the RealNetworks music would no longer play on iPods. The claims of Apple's changes to its encoding and its refusal to license FairPlay technology to other companies were dismissed by the court 2009, but the allegation of Apple's monopoly on the iPod's music download capabilities between 2004 and 2009 remained as of July 2012. In March 2011, \"Bloomberg\" reported that, after a related 3-year inquiry by the Competition Commission, Apple agreed in 2008 to lower its prices on iTunes tracks sold in the United Kingdom and that Steve Jobs had been directed by the court in March 2011 to make himself available to be deposed on Apple's FairPlay changes as they relate to the plaintiffs' monopolization claim.\n\nIn October 2007 (four months after the iPhone was introduced), Paul Holman and Lucy Rivello filed a class action lawsuit (numbered C07-05152) in the Northern District of California. The lawsuit referenced Apple's SIM lock on the iPhone and Apple's (at the time) complete ban on third-party apps, and alleged that the 1.1.1 software update was \"expressly designed\" to disable unapproved SIM cards and apps. The lawsuit said that this was an unfair, unlawful, and fraudulent business practice (see False advertising) under California's Unfair Competition Law; that the combination of AT&T Mobility and Apple was to reduce competition and cause a monopoly in violation of California's antitrust law and the Sherman Antitrust Act; and that this disabling was a violation of the Consumer Fraud and Abuse Act.\n\nShortly after this initial filing, other lawsuits were filed, and these were consolidated with the original Holman suit, bringing in additional plaintiffs and complaints: Timothy Smith, et al., v. Apple, Inc. et al., No. C 07-05662 RMW, adding complaints related to ringtones, and Kliegerman v. Apple, Inc., No. C 08-948, bringing in allegations under the federal Magnuson–Moss Warranty Act. The combined case title was changed to \"In Re Apple & AT&TM Anti-Trust Litigation.\" The court appointed lead counsel from the various plaintiffs' lawyers, and several versions of a combined complaint were filed.\n\nIn October 2008, the court denied the defendants' motions to dismiss the case on the federal claims and granted their motions to dismiss the state unfair trade practice claims except in California, New York, and Washington, but gave the plaintiffs leave to amend those claims. In December 2011, the district court granted Apple and AT&T's motions to compel arbitration, following the Supreme Court decision in \"AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion\", and decertified the class; in April 2012 the Ninth Circuit denied plaintiffs permission to appeal.\n\nIn December 2011, immediately after class decertification of the previous case, a new group of plaintiffs led by Robert Pepper won the race to the courthouse by filing a complaint in the Northern District, which was combined with some slightly later filers and titled \"In re Apple iPhone Antitrust Litigation\", case 11-cv-06714-YGR. The new case is essentially the same but is filed only against Apple, not AT&T Mobility. In late 2013, the various parts of the case were dismissed by the district court. The parts relating to SIM locking were rejected because AT&T was not a party and the plaintiffs were not willing to add AT&T. The remaining claim, in its final version, was that Apple monopolised the market for iPhone applications and that the plaintiffs were damaged by paying Apple's 30% commission for paid applications in the App Store, which the court rejected saying that the commission was \"a cost passed-on to consumers by independent software developers\", not paid by the consumers directly, and so the plaintiffs did not have standing under the Illinois Brick doctrine.\n\nThe plaintiffs appealed to the Ninth District, which reversed the District Court's dismissal. The Ninth Circuit asked the question that in light of Illinois Brick, if Apple was to be treated as a manufacturer or producer, in which case the class did not have standing to sue, or if they were a distributor, in which case the class could sue for damages.\n\nApple appealed the case to the Supreme Court of the United States, which agreed to hear the case, \"Apple Inc. v. Pepper\" in its 2018 term.\n\nIn 2008, Apple agreed to cut the price UK consumers pay to download music for their iPods after a formal complaint to the European Commission from the UK consumer group \"Which?\" demonstrated higher prices in UK for the same iTunes songs sold elsewhere in the European Union (EU). The Commission began an antitrust investigation in 2007 of Apple's business practices after the complaint was made, but ultimately the Commission probe found no agreements between Apple and major record labels on how iTunes is run in Europe, only that Apple had been paying higher wholesale prices to UK music labels and was passing the cost along to UK customers.\n\nIn April 2012, the U.S. Justice Department (DOJ) and 33 U.S. states brought a civil antitrust action against Apple, HarperCollins, Macmillan Publishers, Penguin Books, Simon & Schuster, and Hachette Book Group, Inc., alleging violations of the Sherman Act. The suit was filed in the Southern District of New York and alleges the defendants conspired to restrain retail price competition in the sale of e-books because they viewed Amazon's price discounting as a substantial challenge to their traditional business model. Regarding Apple in particular, the federal complaint alleged that \"Apple facilitated the Publisher Defendants' collective effort to end retail price competition by coordinating their transition to an agency model across all retailers. Apple clearly understood that its participation in this scheme would result in higher prices to consumers.\" In such an agency-model, publishers set prices rather than sellers. Fifteen states and Puerto Rico also filed a companion federal case in Austin, Texas, against Apple, Penguin, Simon & Schuster and Macmillan. In the same month, HarperCollins, Hachette and Simon & Schuster settled with both the DOJ and the state attorneys general, with HarperCollins and Hachette agreeing to pay Texas and Connecticut $52 million in consumer restitution, leaving Apple, Penguin, and Macmillan as remaining defendants. As of July 2012, the case was still in the discovery stage of litigation. On July 10, 2013, District Court Judge Denise Cote in Manhattan found Apple Inc. guilty of the violation of federal antitrust law, citing \"compelling evidence\" that Apple played a \"central role\" in a conspiracy with publishers to eliminate retail competition and the prices of e-books.\n\nIn 2014, Apple settled out of court both an antitrust lawsuit and a related class-action suit regarding cold calling employees of other companies.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1996, Apple developed a marketing strategy that promised free and unlimited live-telephone support on certain products for as long as the original purchaser owned those products; by 1997, however, changes in Apple's AppleCare support policy led Apple to rescind the offer, resulting in a consumer class action lawsuit for breach of contract. Apple denied wrongdoing but, in settlement of the claims, Apple ultimately reinstated the telephone support for the duration of original ownership of the otherwise obsolete products and customers affected by the change were given a limited reimbursement if they had been refused telephone support, had been charged per incident, or had incurred third party support charges.\n\nIn 2004 and 2005, two state-level class action suits were filed against Apple in New York and California alleging the first, second, and third generation iPod music players sold prior to May 2004 did not have the battery life represented and/or that the battery's capacity to take and hold a charge substantially diminished over time. Rather than litigate these claims, Apple entered into a settlement agreement in August 2005 after a fairness hearing in the California action, with the settlement terms designed to end the New York action as well. An appeal followed the California court's approval of the settlement but the appellate court upheld the settlement in December 2005. Eligible members of the class were entitled to extended warranties, store credit, cash compensation, or battery replacement, and some incentive payments, with all unfiled claims expiring after September 2005. Apple agreed to pay all costs of the litigation, including incentive payments to the class members and the plaintiffs' attorney fees, but admitted no fault. In 2006 Apple Canada, Inc., also settled several similar Canadian class action suits alleging misrepresentations by Apple regarding iPod battery life.\n\nIn December 2010, two separate groups of iPhone and iPad users sued Apple, alleging that certain software applications were passing personal user information to third-party advertisers without the users' consent. The individual cases were consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, San Jose division, under the title \"In Re iPhone Application Litigaton\", and further defendants were added to the action. The complainants petitioned the court for a ban on the \"passing of user information without consent and monetary compensation,\" claimed damages for breach of privacy, and sought redress for other enumerated claims. Press reports stated that in April 2011, Apple agreed to amend its developer agreement to stop this from happening \"except for information directly necessary for the functionality of the apps\"; however, the suit alleged that Apple took no steps to do this or enforce it \"in any meaningful way due to criticism from advertising networks\".\n\nThe Associated Press reported a pending congressional inquiry into the matter, with United States Congress members stating that commercial storage and usage of location information without a consumer's express consent is illegal under current law, but Apple defended its use of customer tracking in a letter released May 9, 2011, by the House of Representatives. National Public Radio's senior director of technology published an article examining the data collected by his own iPhone, showing examples of the data collected and maps correlating the data. Separately, digital forensics researchers reported they regularly use the data collected from Apple mobile devices in working with law enforcement officials investigating crimes and have been doing so since at least mid-2010. In contrast with earlier statements, Apple revealed in a hearing with the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee that a \"software bug\" caused iPhones to continue to send anonymous location data to the company's servers, even when location services on the device were turned off.\n\nIn September 2011, the District Court granted Apple's motion to dismiss for lack of Article III standing and failure to state a claim, but gave the plaintiffs leave to amend their complaint, thereby not shutting out the claims permanently. The court ruled that without a showing of legal damages compensable under current law, the plaintiffs had not shown they sustained injury in fact by the defendants' actions. The problem facing the plaintiffs is the current state of electronic privacy law, the issue being that there is no national privacy law that provides for compensatory damages for breach of privacy, and this is the same issue faced by victims of data breaches, as breaches, per se, sustain no legal damages without a showing of actual and measurable harm such as monetary loss. Under U.S. law as of July 2012, it is only when a data breach results in actual loss as defined by applicable law that compensable damages arise. The case remained on the California court's docket as of July 2012.\n\nIn June 2009, a group of consumers filed the class action suits \"Owens v. Apple, Inc.\" and \"Johnson v. Apple Inc.\" against Apple on behalf of American individuals who purchased iTunes gift cards and who were then unable to use the cards to purchase iTunes music at the price advertised on the card because Apple raised the price of the music after it sold the cards to consumers. The \"Johnson\" case absorbed the \"Owens\" case and was settled on February 10, 2012, with payments to be made to consumers by Apple. The \"Owens\" complaint alleged that Apple wrongfully marketed, distributed, and sold iTunes gift cards and songs through its online iTunes store, while representing that consumers could use the gift cards to purchase songs for US$.99 a song and then, after such gift cards were purchased, raised the price on certain songs to $1.29 on April 7, 2009. The lawsuit's allegations included that Apple's conduct constituted breach of contract, violated the state consumer fraud statute, and violated consumer protection statutes of other states. The plaintiffs sought a $.30 refund remedy for each song that class members purchased using a $.99 iTunes card for which they were charged $1.29, plus their attorneys' fees and costs. Apple mounted a vigorous defense and sought to dismiss the suit but lost its motion in December 2009. Individuals are part of the class of plaintiffs if they are U.S. residents who purchased or received an iTunes Gift Card on which the card itself or its packaging contained language to the effect that songs were priced at $0.99 and who used the card to purchase one or more $1.29 songs from the iTunes Store on or before May 10, 2010. The settlement provides class members with an iTunes Store credit of $3.25 if an online claim form was submitted on or before September 24, 2012.\n\nApple settled a U.S. class action in 2011 regarding the older T-shaped MagSafe power adapters. Apple agreed to replace the adapters with newer adapters, and to compensate customers who were forced to buy replacement adapters.\n\nIn 2011, five parents filed a class action suit against Apple for \"in-app\" purchases, which are purchases that can be made within applications (\"apps\"). The parents contended that Apple had not disclosed that the \"free\" apps that were to be used by children had the potential to rack up fees without the parent's knowledge. Potentially 23 million customers could make up the class. Apple offered a settlement option for customers who had fees in excess of $30. In 2011 The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) investigated similar claims. This settled for $100 million. The FTC's action lead to a payout of $32.5 million payout in February 2014.\n\nA similar case was filed by a parent in March 2014 against Google.\n\nIn 2004, independent Apple resellers filed a lawsuit against Apple alleging the company used misleading advertising practices by using unfair business practices that harmed the resellers' sales while boosting Apple-owned outlets, in effect by favoring its own outlets over those of its resellers. The lawsuit claimed that Apple favored company-owned stores by providing significant discounts unavailable to independent dealers. The complaint alleged Apple's acts in favoring its own stores constituted breach of contract, false advertising, fraud, trade libel, defamation, and intentional interference with prospective economic advantage. , Apple reached settlements with all of the plaintiffs, including the bankruptcy trustee for one reseller that failed, while the former principal of that company appealed the bankruptcy court's approval of the settlement.\n\nIn 1994, engineers at Apple Computer code-named the mid-level Power Macintosh 7100 \"Carl Sagan\" after the popular astronomer in the hope that Apple would make \"\" with the sale of the computer. Apple used the name only internally, but Sagan was concerned that it would become a product endorsement and sent Apple a cease-and-desist letter. Apple complied, but its engineers retaliated by changing the internal codename to \"BHA\" for \"Butt-Head Astronomer\".\n\nSagan then sued Apple for libel in federal court. The court granted Apple's motion to dismiss Sagan's claims and opined in dicta that a reader aware of the context would understand Apple was \"clearly attempting to retaliate in a humorous and satirical way\", and that \"It strains reason to conclude that Defendant was attempting to criticize Plaintiff's reputation or competency as an astronomer. One does not seriously attack the expertise of a scientist using the undefined phrase 'butt-head'.\" Sagan then sued for Apple's original use of his name and likeness, but again lost and appealed that ruling. In November 1995, Apple and Sagan reached an out-of-court settlement and Apple's office of trademarks and patents released a conciliatory statement that \"Apple has always had great respect for Dr. Sagan. It was never Apple's intention to cause Dr. Sagan or his family any embarrassment or concern\". Apple's third and final code name for the project was \"LaW\", short for \"Lawyers are Wimps\".\n\nFor nearly 30 years Apple Corps (The Beatles-founded record label and holding company) and Apple Inc. (then Apple Computer) litigated a dispute involving the use of the name \"Apple\" as a trademark and its association with music. In 1978, Apple Corps filed suit against Apple Computer for trademark infringement and the parties settled in 1981 with Apple Computer paying an undisclosed amount to Apple Corps, later revealed to be $80,000. A primary condition of the settlement was that Apple Computer agreed to stay out of the music business. In 1991, after Apple introduced the Apple IIgs with an Ensoniq music synthesizer chip, Apple Corps alleged the product to be in violation of the terms of their settlement. The parties then reached another settlement agreement and Apple paid Apple Corps around $26.5 million, with Apple agreeing it would not package, sell, or distribute physical music materials.\n\nIn September 2003, Apple Corps again sued Apple Computer alleging Apple Computer had breached the settlement once more, this time for introducing iTunes and the iPod. Apple Corps alleged Apple Computer's introduction of the music-playing products with the iTunes Music Store violated the terms of the previous agreement in which Apple agreed not to distribute music. The trial opened on March 29, 2006, in the UK. and ended on May 8, 2006, with the court issuing judgement in favor of Apple Computer. \"[I] find no breach of the trademark agreement has been demonstrated,\" the presiding Justice Mann said.\n\nOn February 5, 2007, Apple Inc. and Apple Corps announced another settlement of their trademark dispute, agreeing that Apple Inc. would own all of the trademarks related to 'Apple' and would license certain of those trademarks back to Apple Corps for its continued use. The settlement ended the ongoing trademark lawsuit between the companies, with each party bearing its own legal costs, and Apple Inc. continuing to use the Apple name and logos on iTunes. The settlement's full terms were confidential.\n\nIn an early domain name dispute, two months before announcing the iMac in July 1998, Apple sued then-teenager Abdul Traya. Having registered the domain name \"appleimac.com\" in an attempt to draw attention to the web-hosting business he ran out of his parents' basement, a note on Traya's site stated that his plan was to \"generate traffic to our servers and try to put the domain to sale. [sic]\" After a legal dispute lasting for nearly a year, Apple settled out of court, paying Traya's legal fees and giving him a 'token payment' in exchange for the domain name.\n\nThe Apple-Cohen dispute was a cybersquatting case where a top-level domain registrar's decision differed from prior decisions by awarding a domain name to a subsequent registrant (Apple), rather than to the prior registrant (Cohen). As the decision recounts, in November 2000, Benjamin Cohen of CyberBritain registered the domain name \"itunes.co.uk\". The domain initially pointed to \"skipmusic.com\", and then to \"cyberbritain.com\", and was then inoperative for some time. Apple applied for a UK trademark for \"iTunes\" in October 2000 which was granted in March 2001, and then launched its UK iTunes music store service in 2004. Afterward, Cohen reactivated his registered domain name, redirecting it to iTunes' then-rival, Napster; later Cohen forwarded the domain name to his CyberBritain's cash back/rewards website.\n\nIn 2005, Apple took the matter to the Dispute Resolution Service operated by .uk domain name registry Nominet UK (the DRS), claiming that Apple had trademark rights in the name \"iTunes\" and that the use of the domain name by Cohen's company was abusive (these being the two tests under the DRS rules for prevailing in a matter where the complaint related only to the later use of a trademarked name). The dispute was unresolved at the free mediation stage and so Apple paid for an independent expert to decide the case; the expert decided the dispute in Apple's favor.\n\nCohen thereafter launched a media offensive claiming the DRS was biased in favor of large businesses and made frequent threats of lawsuits against Nominet. Cohen stated he believed that the DRS system was unfair for a number of reasons and would seek redress against Nominet with the High Court via judicial review. Nominet stated that Cohen should appeal the case via the appeal process in the DRS. Cohen refused and, after several months, instead issued proceedings for judicial review. The High Court at first instance rejected Cohen's case in August 2005, noting that Cohen's company, Cyberbritain Group Ltd., should have used the appeal process forming part of Nominet's domain resolution service. Afterward, Cohen's company asked for a rehearing and, as that case progressed, the interim domain name was transferred to Apple in accord with the expert's decision and thereafter pointed to the Apple music site. In November 2005, Cohen dropped all legal action against Apple.\n\nIn 2006, Cisco Systems and Apple negotiated over allowing Apple rights to use Cisco's Linksys iPhone trademark, but the negotiations stalled when Cisco pushed for the two products to be interoperable. Following the public unveiling of the Apple iPhone at the 2007 Macworld Expo, Cisco filed a lawsuit against Apple in January 2007, alleging Apple's iPhone name infringed on Cisco's iPhone trademark. Cisco alleged that Apple created a front company subsequent to their negotiations to try to acquire the rights another way, while Apple countered that there would be no likelihood of confusion between the two products, because Apple's iPhone product was the first cell phone with such a name, while Cisco's iPhone was a VoIP phone. Bloomberg reported Cisco's iPhone as a product marketed for less than $100 and part of the Linksys home routers, enabling internet-based calls through Skype and Yahoo! Messenger, and contrasted it with Apple's iPhone as a mobile phone which sold for around $600. In February 2007, Cisco and Apple announced an agreement under which both companies would be allowed to use the iPhone name worldwide.\n\nIn March 2007, Apple opposed a trademark application by startup Sector Labs, which sought to register \"Video Pod\" as a mark identifying goods associated with a video projector product. Apple argued that the proposed mark was merely \"descriptive\" and should be denied because the registration would cause a likelihood of confusion with Apple's pre-existing \"iPod\" marks. In March 2012, the U.S. Trademark Trial and Appeal Board (TTAB) ruled in Apple's favor and denied Sector Labs' registration, finding that the \"iPod\" mark was \"famous\" and therefore entitled to broad protection under U.S. trademark law.\n\nIn January 2008, Apple filed an opposition with the U.S. Trademark Trial and Appeal Board against New York City's (NYC) trademark application for the \"Big Apple\" logo for NYC's GreeNYC initiative, by designer Blake E. Marquis. NYC originally filed for its trademark: \"a stylized apple design\" for \"[e]ducation services, namely, providing public service announcements on policies and practices of the City of New York in the field of environmentally sustainable growth\" in May 2007, with an amendment filed in June 2007. The TTAB's Notice of Publication was published in September 2007 and Apple filed an opposition with the TTAB the following January, claiming a likelihood of confusion. In June 2008, NYC filed a motion to amend its application to delete the leaf element from its design, leaving the stem, and the TTAB dismissed Apple's opposition and counterclaims in accordance with the parties' stipulation in July 2008. In November 2011, the TTAB issued NYC's trademark registration.\n\nIn September 2008, Apple sent a cease and desist letter to the Victoria School of Business and Technology in Saanich, British Columbia, claiming the school's logo infringed Apple's trademark rights and that the school's logo falsely suggested Apple had authorized the school's activities. The logo in question featured the outline of an apple and a leaf, although the design incorporated a mountain, had three bumps on top of the apple instead of the two used by Apple, and had no bite out of the apple, unlike Apple's logo. In April 2011, the school reported it had settled its 3-year dispute with Apple, was launching a new logo under a new name, Q College, and was expanding its operations. The settlement's full terms were undisclosed.\n\nIn October 2009, Apple disputed a trademark application by Woolworths Limited in Australia over the new logo for its supermarket chain Woolworths Supermarkets, a stylised \"W\", similar in shape to an apple. Apple reportedly took objection to the breadth of Woolworths' application, which would allow it to brand products, including consumer electronics, with the logo. In April 2011, Woolworths amended its trademark application to remove various goods and services, such as \"apparatus for recording, transmission or reproduction of sound or images\" and Apple withdrew its opposition, allowing the trademark to proceed to registration. In August 2011 Woolworths introduced a shopping app for the iPhone, and, as of July 2012 continues to use the logo, including on the face of its iPhone app. The Woolworths smartphone app is also available on Apple's App Store where the logo is featured prominently; Apple closely manages its App Store offerings.\n\nIn March 2010, an Australian Trademarks tribunal denied Apple's attempt to prevent a small company from trademarking the name DOPi for use on its laptop bags and cases for Apple products. Apple argued that the DOPi name — which is iPod spelled backwards — is too similar to its own product's name, the iPod.\n\nIn 2006, Apple secured Taiwanese rights to the iPad mark from the Taiwanese company Proview Electronics; in China the iPad mark was still owned by the subsidiary of Proview Electronics, Shenzhen company Proview Technology, as of April 2012. Proview Technology sued Apple over the rights to the mark in China in 2011; Apple counter-sued but lost and then appealed, with the case before the Xicheng district court, where Proview claimed $1.6 billion USD in damages. Apple paid Proview approximately $53,000 – $55,000 for the mark in 2009. In February 2012, Proview sued Apple in the Santa Clara Superior Court, alleging several permutations of fraud (intentional misrepresentation, concealment, inducement) and unfair competition. Apple paid $60 million to Proview to end the dispute in a court-mediated settlement in the Higher People's Court of Guangdong province; the U.S. case was thrown out of court.\n\nIn 2011, Apple filed suit against Amazon.com alleging trademark infringement, unfair competition, and dilution under the Lanham Act and related California state law over Amazon's use of the \"App Store\" phrase relating to Amazon's \"Amazon Appstore Developer Portal\" and Amazon's alleged other similar uses of the phrase. In its complaint, Apple did not refer to \"apps\" as a common name, but described its applications store as a place consumers license \"software programs or products\"; Amazon countered in its answer that \"app store\" is a common phrase meaning a \"place to buy apps\". Reuters reported that Microsoft was opposing Apple's attempted registration of the phrase as a trademark and that part of the matter was before the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board (TTAB). Apple motioned the court for a preliminary injunction to bar Amazon from using the \"App Store\" name but, in July 2011, U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton, presiding over Apple's case against Amazon, denied Apple's motion. In July 2012, the case was still in the discovery stage of litigation.\n\nIn January 2013, Apple's claims were rejected by a US District judge, who argued that the company presented no evidence that Amazon had \"[attempted] to mimic Apple's site or advertising\", or communicated that its service \"possesses the characteristics and qualities that the public has come to expect from the Apple APP STORE and/or Apple products\" In July 2013, Apple dropped the lawsuit.\n\nUltimately decided under the title \"O'Grady v. Superior Court\", the suit filed by Apple against unnamed bloggers raised the issue for the first time of whether bloggers hold the same protections against revealing sources that journalists have. In November 2004, three popular weblog sites featuring Apple rumors publicly revealed information about two unreleased Apple products, the Mac mini and an as yet unreleased product code-named \"Asteroid\", also known as \"Project Q97\". Apple subpoenaed three sites to force them to identify their confidential sources: \"Apple Insider\", \"Power Page\", and, separately, Think Secret, which did no original reporting on the case and thus had no sources to reveal. In February 2005, a trial court in California decided that website operators do not have the same shield law protection as do other journalists. The journalists appealed and, in May 2006, the California Court of Appeal reversed the trial court's decision, ruling that activities in question were covered by the shield law.\n\nIn \"Apple Computer v. DePlume\", a case illustrating one of Apple's methods of protecting its claims in trade secrets, Apple sued Think Secret's parent company, the dePlume Organization LLC, and Think Secret's editor in January 2005, alleging misappropriation of trade secrets with regard to Think Secret's stories on a \"headless iMac\" and new version of iWork. In response, DePlume filed a motion to dismiss the case based on First Amendment grounds under California's state Anti-SLAPP statute, a law designed to dispense with meritless legal claims attempting to silence valid exercises of freedom of speech. In late 2007, Think Secret announced \"Apple and Think Secret have settled their lawsuit, reaching an agreement that results in a positive solution for both sides. As part of the confidential settlement, no sources were revealed and Think Secret will no longer be published\".\n\n\"Apple v. Franklin\" established the fundamental basis of copyright of computer software, even if it was provided only as object code or in firmware. In 1982, Apple filed a lawsuit against Franklin Computer Corp., alleging that Franklin's ACE 100 personal computer used illegal copies of the Apple II's operating system and ROM. The case was decided in Franklin's favor but reversed by the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.\n\nApple's litigation over object code contributed to the development of contemporary copyright law because the company's object code cases brought different results in different courts, creating a conflict of laws that resulted in international litigation. In the 1980s, Apple litigated two copyright cases with central issues that included the question of whether object code (as contrasted with source code) of a computer program is subject to copyright laws. A third case in which Apple was not a party but that involved the Apple decisions followed in New Zealand. The specific cases were \"Computer Edge Pty. Ltd. v Apple Computer Inc.\" (1986, Australia) (\"Computer Edge\"), \"Apple Computer Inc. v Mackintosh Computers Ltd.\", (Canada, 1987) (\"Apple v. Mackintosh\"), and \"IBM v. Computer Imports Ltd.\" (\"IBM v. Computer Imports\"), (New Zealand, 1989).\n\nIn the \"Computer Edge\" case, the Australian court decided against the then-prevailing opinions in other courts (the U.K., Canada, South Africa, and the U.S.) and ruled object code was not copyrightable, while the Supreme Court of Canada in \"Apple v. Mackintosh\" reversed its earlier decisions and ruled that because object code was a translation of source code and embodied in a silicon chip, it was therefore a translation of an original literary work expressed in a material form and unauthorized reproduction of the object code was therefore an infringement of copyright. The Canadian court opined that programs within ROM silicon chips are protected under the Copyright Act of Canada and the conversion from the source code into object code is a form of translation. It further held that such translation does not include the expression of an idea in another form, but rather only applies to the expression of an idea in another language, and that a translation has a one-to-one correspondence between works that are expressed in two different languages.\n\nIn these conflict of laws cases, Apple met with conflicting international judicial opinions: an Australian court decision conflicted with a Canadian court decision on the copyrightability of object code. In \"IBM v. Computer Imports\", the High Court of New Zealand then considered these prior decisions and sided with the Canadian decision in ruling that, although object code is not an original literary work in its own right, it is a reproduction of source code in material form and therefore an infringement of copyright takes place if it is copied without the authorization of the copyright owner. Such legal conflicts affected not only Apple, but all other software companies as well, and the conflicts remained unresolved until the creation of an international legal regime embodied in further changes to national copyright laws, which ultimately made object code subject to copyright law. These revisions of law in favor of making object code subject to copyright law are still controversial. The revisions also form the technical underpinnings (via the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) and the Electronic Communications Privacy Act) for the legal notions of electronic privacy violation and computer trespass, as well as the further development of anti-hacking law-making such as the Patriot Act and the Convention on Cybercrime.\n\nIn 1988, after the introduction of Microsoft's Windows 2.0, Apple filed a lawsuit against Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard alleging that Microsoft Windows and HP's NewWave violated Apple's copyrights in the Macintosh user interface. Cited, among other things, was the use of overlapping and resizable windows in Windows 2.0. The case was one of the \"look and feel\" copyright lawsuits of the 1980s. After several years in court, Apple's claims against Microsoft were dismissed, primarily due to a license John Sculley had negotiated with Bill Gates for Windows 1.0. The decision was upheld on appeal in 1994, but legal disputes on this topic were still ongoing until 1997, when the two companies came to a wide-ranging agreement that included Microsoft buying non-voting Apple stocks.\n\n\"Xerox Corp. v. Apple Computer\" was a 1989 case where Xerox sued Apple over its graphical user interface (GUI) copyrights. A federal district court dismissed Xerox's claims without addressing whether Apple's GUI infringed Xerox's.\n\nThe \"OdioWorks\" case was one of the first high-profile cases illustrating Apple's attempts to employ federal police power in its litigation practices by invoking the anti-circumvention provisions of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) as a means of shielding its intellectual property from reverse engineering. In November 2008, Apple sent a cease-and-desist letter to BluWiki, a non-commercial wiki provider, alleging BluWiki infringed Apple's copyrights in publishing a discussion of how to make the latest iPods interoperate with other software and that, by so doing, violated the DMCA. In April 2009, OdioWorks, the operators of BluWiki, backed by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), defensively sued Apple seeking a declaration of non-infringement and non-circumvention. In July 2009, Apple ceased claiming infringement, stating it was \"withdrawing [Apple's] takedown notifications\" and that \"Apple no longer has, nor will it have in the future, any objection to the publication of the itunesDB Pages which are the subject of the OdioWorks complaint\". After Apple withdrew its complaint and cited code obsolescence as a contributing factor in its decision to withdraw, BluWiki then republished its discussion of the issue. The EFF noted, \"While we are glad that Apple retracted its baseless legal threats, we are disappointed that it only came after 7 months of censorship and a lawsuit\".\n\n Prevailing in an early copyright infringement suit in the mid-1980s, Apple forced Digital Research to alter basic components in Digital Research's Graphics Environment Manager (\"GEM\"), almost a direct copy of the Macintosh's graphical user interface (GUI), or \"look and feel\". Features Digital Research removed from GEM as a result of the lawsuit included disk drive icons on the desktop, movable and resizable windows in the file manager, shading in the title bars, and window open/close animations. In addition, visual elements including the scrollbar thumbs and the window close button were changed to be less similar to those in the Mac GUI.\n\nIn 1999, Apple successfully sued eMachines, whose eOne too closely resembled the then-new iMac's trade dress. The eOne was taken off the market, resulting in eMachines' losing the ability to sell the eOne as intended. In eMachines' EDGAR statement for May 1, 2001, eMachines stated that its \"net loss for the first quarter of 2001 was $31.1 million, or $0.21 per share, compared to a loss of $11.9 million, or $0.13 per share, in the first quarter of 2000\", and that these results \"reflect the substantial discounts and incentives that we gave to retailers to enable liquidation of product inventories\".<ref name=\"eMachines,-Inc-May-2001-S-3/A\"></ref>\n\nIn a dispute illustrating the nature of claims, defenses, and counterclaims for patent infringement based on arguments of prior art and first to file, rival digital music player maker Creative Technology sued Apple in May 2006 for Apple's alleged infringement of Creative's Zen patent claiming Apple infringed Creative's patent for the menuing structures on an MP3 player. Creative claimed it began using its menuing method on its Nomad players in September 2000, approximately a year prior to Apple's first iPod release in October 2001. Creative, a Singapore-based consumer electronics group, also filed a trade complaint with the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) against Apple. Creative asked for a court injunction to block the import and sale of Apple's iPod and iPod nano in the United States and for money damages for past sales. Apple filed a countersuit against Creative on similar grounds.\n\nIn August 2006, Apple and Creative settled the suit with Apple agreeing to pay Creative $100 million USD for the right to implement Creative's method of sorting songs on the iPod. The settlement effectively ended the patent dispute and five other pending lawsuits between the two companies. Creative also secured an agreement to participate in the \"Made for iPod\" program by producing accessories for the iPod.\n\nIn June 2008, Apple was named among others as a defendant in a suit brought by plaintiff Typhoon Touch Technologies in the federal U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging patent infringement in portable touch screen technology. The suit illustrated the vagaries of litigating patent licensing and royalty collection issues in the commercial exploitation of intellectual property rights. Ultimately, Typhoon could not prevail against patent defense arguments of prior art and obviousness and earned itself a reputation as a patent troll. Typhoon acquired two pre-existing patents, (filed in 1993 and 1994 and issued in 1995 and 1997), in mid-2007 for $350,000 plus a percentage of collected licensing fees. The patents had languished for some time and were not being policed; shortly after Typhoon acquired the patents, it began enforcement by bringing suit against exploiters of the technology who had not paid licensing fees. Typhoon was successful in its patent infringement suits against some small companies, and then expanded its litigation to go after larger ones. Typhoon alleged that Apple and others used its patented technology inventions without permission. Typhoon originally filed the suit in December 2007 against Dell after settling with some smaller companies but, in mid-2008, amended its complaint to add Apple, Fujitsu, Toshiba, Lenovo, Panasonic, HTC, Palm, Samsung, Nokia, and LG. In 2010, Apple settled with Typhoon for an undisclosed sum and was then dismissed from the litigation as of September 2010. The other large companies were able to rebuff Typhoon's claims, and Typhoon ceased doing business in 2008 after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) suspended its trading in a fraud investigation.\n\nIn October 2009, Nokia Corporation sued Apple for Apple's infringement of Nokia's patents relating to wireless technology; Apple countersued Nokia in December 2009. The two companies engaged in nearly two-years of litigation and both parties amended their claims multiple times and in multiple courts before finally settling in June 2011. For an undisclosed amount of cash and future ongoing iPhone royalties to be paid by Apple, Nokia agreed to settle, with Apple's royalty payments retroactively back-payable to the iPhone's introduction in 2007, but with no broad cross-licensing agreement made between the companies. Apple only agreed to cross-license some patents to Nokia. \"Apple said in a statement today that Nokia will have a license to some technology, \"but not the majority of the innovations that make the iPhone unique\". Apple gets a license to some of Nokia's patents, including ones that were deemed essential to industry standards on mobile phones.\n\nApple filed a patent infringement suit against High Tech Computer Corp. (HTC) in March 2010 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware in the two companies' ongoing battle with each other, and a complaint against HTC under Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 with the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) in Washington, D.C. Apple's suit alleged 20 separate patent infringements relating to the iPhone's user interface, underlying architecture and hardware. Steve Jobs exclaimed \"We can sit by and watch competitors steal our patented inventions, or we can do something about it. We've decided to do something about it ... [We] think competition is healthy, but competitors should create their own original technology, not steal ours\". The ITC rejected all but one of Apple's claims, however, ruling for Apple on a single claim relating to data tapping. HTC motioned the Delaware court for a change of venue to the Northern District of California, arguing against Apple's desire to consolidate the case with the similar cases brought by Nokia against Apple, alleging insubstantial overlap between those cases and Apple's complaint, but Judge Gregory M. Sleet denied HTC's motion for a venue change, ruling that Apple's choice of forum would prevail. HTC countersued Apple in September 2011 in the same court claiming infringement of four patents HTC obtained from Google, also filing a counter-complaint with the ITC, with HTC's general counsel saying \"HTC will continue to protect its patented inventions against infringement from Apple until such infringement stops.\" In May 2012 the Delaware court ordered mediation between the companies. In November 2012, HTC and Apple ended the patent dispute by settling the case, but did not disclose the terms of the settlement. The companies reported the settlement included a 10-year agreement for licensing both companies' current and future patents to each other.\"\n\nEastman Kodak sued Apple and Research In Motion (RIM) in January 2010, filing two lawsuits against Apple and a complaint with the U.S. International Trade Commission against both Apple and RIM after the companies refused to pay royalties for use of Kodak's patents for digital cameras. Kodak alleged Apple's and RIM's phones infringed on patented Kodak digital imaging technology. Kodak sought an injunction against further imports into the United States of Apple's iPhone and RIM's BlackBerry. After Kodak filed an additional suit in January 2012 against Apple and another against HTC claiming infringement of four of its key patents, Apple filed a countersuit with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court to block Kodak's efforts to use the disputed patents as collateral for loans. In the January complaint Kodak claimed violations of the same image preview technology at issue in the original dispute between Kodak, Apple, and RIM that is, as of 2012, pending before ITC. In March 2012, bankruptcy court judge Allen Gropper, overseeing Kodak's restructuring, denied Apple's request to file a patent complaint with the ITC over some of Kodak's cameras, photo frames, and printers. In July 2012, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ruled that Kodak did not infringe on Apple's patent technology for digital cameras, although a few days earlier Kodak lost its case before the ITC against Apple and RIM; Kodak announced it would appeal that decision.\n\nIn the year before Apple and Samsung began suing each other on most continents, and while Apple and HTC were already embroiled in a patent fight, Motorola Mobility and Apple started a period of intense patent litigation. The Motorola-Apple patent imbroglio commenced with claims and cross-claims between the companies for patent infringement and encompassed multiple forums in multiple countries as each party sought friendly venues for litigating its respective claims; the fight also included administrative law rulings as well as ITC and European Commission involvement. As of April 2012, the controversy centered on whether a FRAND license to a components manufacturer carries over to an equipment manufacturer incorporating the component into equipment, an issue not addressed in the U.S. Supreme Court's default exhaustion doctrine in \"Quanta v. LG Electronics\". In June 2012, appellate Judge Richard Posner ordered dismissal of the case with prejudice and Apple announced its intention to appeal a month later.\n\n\"Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.\" was the first of many lawsuits between Apple and Samsung. In the spring of 2011, Apple sued Samsung while already fully engaged in a patent war with Motorola. Apple's multinational litigation over technology patents became known as the mobile device patent wars: Extensive litigation followed fierce competition in the global market for consumer mobile communications.\n\nBy August 2011, Apple and Samsung were engaged in 19 ongoing lawsuits in 12 courts in nine countries on four continents; by October, the fight expanded to 10 countries, and by July 2012, the two companies were embroiled in more than 50 lawsuits around the globe with billions of dollars in damages claimed between them. As of August 2013, the ultimate cost of these patent wars to consumers, shareholders, and investors is not known.\n\nA U.S. jury trial was held on July 30, 2012, with Apple prevailing and Samsung ordered to pay more than $1 billion in damages, after which Samsung stated: \"This is not the final word in this case or in battles being waged in courts and tribunals around the world, some of which have already rejected many of Apple's claims.\" Judge Lucy H. Koh later decided that the jury had miscalculated $450 million in its initial damage assessment and ordered a retrial that commenced in November 2013. Following a week-long trial, also overseen by Judge Koh, Samsung was ordered to pay $600 million to Apple for the 2012 lawsuit.\n\nOn August 9, 2013, the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC) announced its decision regarding an Apple-initiated case, whereby Samsung is accused of infringing four Apple patents related to user interfaces and headphone input functionality. The USITC sided with Apple in what was described in the media as a \"mixed ruling\" and stated that some of Samsung's older devices infringe on two of Apple's patents—one covering touch-screen technology and another regarding headphone jacks; however, no violations were identified in four other patents. The final determination of the ITC was signed by Lisa Barton, Acting Secretary to the Commission.\n\nIn a damage-only retrial court session on November 13, 2013, as ordered by Judge Koh in December 2012, a Samsung Electronics representative stated in a San Jose, U.S. courtroom that Apple's hometown jury found that the company copied some features of both the iPhone and iPad. Samsung's attorney clarified the purpose of the damage-only retrial and stated the result of the first trial, \"This is a case not where we're disputing that the 13 phones contain some elements of Apple's property,\" but the company has disputed the $379.8 million amount that Apple claimed — Samsung presented a figure of $52 million. The San Jose jury eventually awarded Apple $290 million in damages after jurors completed a one-page assessment form for each infringed patent. The six-woman, two-man jury reached its decision after a three-day period.\n\nIn the first week of January 2014, a filing with the U.S. District court in San Jose showed that legal executives from both parties agreed to meet prior to February 19, 2014, to engage in settlement discussions. Both Samsung and Apple were responding to a court order that instructed the completion of such a meeting before a new trial begins in March 2014. One of three Samsung chiefs met with Cook, but the filing did not reveal the name of the representative.\n\nA new trial is scheduled for March 2014, in which Apple will seek to prevent Samsung from selling some of its current devices in the U.S. The case will involve further debate over monetary compensation. In the 2014 lawsuit, Samsung is accused of infringing five of Apple Inc.'s patents in 10 phone and tablet models, while Samsung has responded with a counterclaim, in which it states that two patents for nine phones and tablets have been infringed on by Apple. Jury selection for the trial occurred on March 31, 2014. Samsung stands to gain $6 million if the jury rules in its favor, while Apple is seeking $2 billion in damages and could proceed with similar lawsuits against other Android handset makers, as the relevant patent issues extend beyond Samsung's software technology.\n\nOn 6 November 2017, Israeli start-up Corephotonics sued Apple. They claimed that the technology behind the dual-camera systems in Apple's iPhone 7 Plus and 8 Plus infringed four patents owned by them (Corephotonics). Corephotonics said that they approached Apple over a possible partnership, but Apple's lead negotiator apparently declined the idea, with Apple going ahead and launching the iPhone 7 Plus in late 2016, and then the 8 Plus in late 2017.\n\nThe patents claimed by Corephotonics to be infringed are: two patents on mini telephoto lens assembly, one patent on dual aperture zoom digital cameras, and one on high resolution thin multi-aperture imaging systems.\n\nCorephotonics also blamed Apple's consumers (who bought the 7 Plus or 8 Plus) to be infringing the patents, as they claim that Apple sells the products with \"knowledge of or willful blindness\", which the consumers buy.\n\nThe lawsuit demands monetary compensation for the lawyers the start-up had to hire, as well as for damages. They are also asking Apple to immediately stop producing dual-lens cameras systems. The iPhone X is not included in the lawsuit, despite having a dual-lens camera.\n\nIn June 2006, the Consumer Ombudsmen in Norway, Sweden and Denmark challenged Apple's iTunes end user license agreement (EULA) through the Norwegian Consumer Ombudsman Bjørn Erik Thon, who claimed that Apple was violating contract and copyright laws in their countries. Thon stated that Apple's \"being an international company does not entitle <nowiki>[it]</nowiki> to disregard the laws of the countries in which it operates. The company's standard customer contract violates Norwegian law\". An official complaint was filed by the Norwegian Consumer Council in January 2006, after which German and French consumer groups joined the Nordic-led drive to force Apple to make its iTunes online store compatible with digital music players made by rival companies. A French law allows regulators to force Apple to make its player and store compatible with rival offerings. The consumer protection regulators of Norway, Sweden, and Finland met with Apple in September 2006 in hopes of resolving the issues without litigation, but the matter was only resolved after Apple discontinued its FairPlay digital rights management (DRM) scheme.\n\nIn 2008, the UK National Consumer Council (NCC, now Consumer Focus) called on the UK's Office of Fair Trading (OFT) to investigate Apple's EULA, claiming Apple's EULA, and those of multiple other technology companies, misled consumers and infringed legal rights. The NCC's product complaint included Apple's iLife as well as Microsoft's Office for Mac, and products by Corel, Adobe, Symantec, Kaspersky, McAfee, and others. The OFT determined the licensing agreements were unfair and Apple agreed to improve its terms and conditions to make them clearer and fairer to consumers.\n\nIn July 2008, Apple Inc. filed suit against Psystar Corporation alleging Psystar sold Intel-based systems with Mac OS X pre-installed and that, in so doing, violated Apple's copyright and trademark rights and the software licensing terms of Apple's shrink wrap license. That license restricted the use of Mac OS X to Apple computers, and specifically prohibited customers from installing the operating system on non-Apple computers.The case brought the anti-circumvention and anti-trafficking facets of the DMCA into this licensing dispute, with Apple ultimately prevailing and awarded permanent injunctive relief, and the decision affirmed on appeal in 2011. Psystar's appeal asserted copyright misuse as a defense by arguing that Apple's license agreement was an unlawful attempt to extend copyright protection to products that are not copyrightable. The appeals court ruled that Psystar failed to demonstrate \"copyright misuse\" by Apple because Psystar must show either that the license agreement restricts creativity or that it restricts competition, and that Apple's license agreement does neither.\n\nIn 1995, Apple added Microsoft and Intel to an existing lawsuit against the San Francisco Canyon Company, alleging that Microsoft and Intel knowingly used the software company to aid them in stealing several thousand lines of Apple's QuickTime code in an effort to improve the performance of Video for Windows. After a threat to withdraw support for the Macintosh edition of Microsoft Office the suit was settled in 1997, along with all lingering issues from the \"Apple Computer, Inc. v. Microsoft Corporation\" \"look & feel\" suit. Apple agreed to make Internet Explorer the default browser over Netscape, while Microsoft agreed to continue developing Office and other software for the Mac for the next five years and to purchase $150 million of non-voting Apple stock.\n\nIn February 2016, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as part of its investigation into the 2015 San Bernardino attack, obtained a court order that demanded that Apple create a version of its operating system that would allow the FBI to circumvent security controls, so that it could inspect the contents of an iPhone used by one of the terrorists involved in the attack. Apple claimed the order \"would undermine the very freedoms and liberty our government is meant to protect\" and appealed. On March 28, 2016, the DOJ reported that it had retrieved the data from the attacker's iPhone through an alternative method without Apple's assistance, ending the legal proceedings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56132542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56132542", "title": "Arab Encyclopedia", "text": "Arab Encyclopedia\n\nArab Encyclopedia (Arabic: الموسوعة العربية) is an encyclopedia in 24 volumes in the Arabic language. In 1953, Syria proposed the project to the Arab League who adopted a resolution to set up \"The Arab Encyclopedia\". Another proposal for an \"Arab Encyclopedia\" was submitted to the Arab League in 1961. However, the project was not implemented for unidentified reason. Syria adopted a resolution to establish the 'Institute of the Arab Encyclopedia' (IAE) () in 1981 which issued the first edition of the encyclopedia in 1998 in Damascus, Syria. In 2016, the official website was launched which allows free access to all the entries of the encyclopedia.\n"}
{"id": "16511441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16511441", "title": "Asia Pacific Network of Science and Technology Centres", "text": "Asia Pacific Network of Science and Technology Centres\n\nThe Asia Pacific Network of Science & Technology Centres (ASPAC), initiated in 1997, aims to facilitate communication and cooperation among science centers, museums and other organisations that use interactive approaches for learning and public understanding of science and technology within the Asia-Pacific region.\n\n"}
{"id": "38972033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38972033", "title": "Automobile Blue Book", "text": "Automobile Blue Book\n\nThe Automobile Blue Book was an American series of road guides for motoring travelers in the United States and Canada published between 1901 and 1929.\n\nHartford automobile businessman and enthusiast Charles Howard Gillette initiated the series. It was first published in 1901, covering 62 routes across the American Northeastern metropolitan areas of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Washington, D.C. Gillette had originally intended the book to focus on routes that connected automobile supply stations, and included extensive reference sections on automobile repair and maintenance, but the book would find its most success focusing on routes between cities.\n\nThe \"Automobile Blue Book\" was published annually as a single volume through 1906, expanding to 3 volumes in 1907, but would not cover the full United States until 1915. In 1906 the American Automobile Association (AAA), of which Gillette was Secretary, officially sponsored the book, dramatically increasing its circulation as the book was sold to association members at a discount. The 1907 edition was the first to include maps of cities and routes, while also removing the automobile maintenance sections in favor of more space for advertisements related to automobiles and touring. Readers could also find information on trip planning and state road laws. By the 1910s, it became \"the standard publication\" of its type.\n\nVolumes of the \"Automobile Blue Book\" published before 1927 were primarily designed to provide routes between cities, focusing on turn-by-turn directions, with supplemental maps providing context and showing connections. Directions were not necessarily intended to be the shortest or fastest connection between each city, but to provide interesting scenery and opportunities for rest and maintenance along the route. Each route was listed twice once in each direction. This emphasis on providing separate routes for each city connection led to volumes often containing more than 800 pages to describe the hundreds of routes contained within. These routes relied primarily on landmarks and right or left turn descriptions, while avoiding compass directions like north or east, which made the directions difficult to use if travelers left the designated route or a landmark was destroyed. These turn-by-turn directions may have been a necessity however, as roads at the time were designed for local not intercity travel, limiting long stretches of continuous roads, and meaning \"anyone wishing to travel cross-country by automobile was forced to make hundreds of turns onto hundreds of different roads\" that were impractical to represent visually on a map.\n\nThe routes used in the \"Blue Book\" were initially developed by amateur \"pathfinders\" who used their knowledge of local roads to compile the listed routes. Early pathfinders were actually bicyclists, but eventually automobile clubs especially those of the AAA became the major source of routes compiled by the \"Blue Book\". By 1907 the \"Blue Book\" had its own fleet of cars and professional pathfinders working in teams of two to create and update routes.\n\nEarly editions of the book were aimed primarily at wealthy Americans traveling for leisure, as only the rich could afford an automobile in the early 1900s. With the Ford Motor Company's release of the Model T in 1908, the article's advertisements evidenced a shift toward a larger middle class market as touring in automobiles became more accessible. The book's reliance on mileages as a navigational aid created difficulty at a time when many automobiles were not sold with odometers or speedometers included, but provided an opportunity for the book to regularly advertise after-market versions in its volumes. As the \"Blue Book\" grew to include hundreds of advertisements for hotels, restaurants, garages, and auto dealers in each volume, some retailers hung signs announcing themselves as an \"Official Automobile Blue Book Garage\" or an \"Official Automobile Blue Book Hotel.\"\n\nAfter reaching peak size by publishing 12 volumes in 1921, publishers consolidated to 4 volumes in 1922, removing routes, shrinking fonts, and increasing use of abbreviations over the years. As a number of competing map services arose, including Rand McNally, the \"Blue Book\" suffered declining sales, exacerbated when AAA stopped distributing the books in 1926. In response, the 1927 edition was dramatically reformatted, with an emphasis on maps and the elimination of turn-by-turn route directions as the increasing development of highways made map-based navigation more practical. The last \"Blue Book\" was published in 1929.\n\n"}
{"id": "585472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=585472", "title": "Bulfinch's Mythology", "text": "Bulfinch's Mythology\n\nBulfinch's Mythology is a collection of general audience works by American Latinist and banker Thomas Bulfinch, named after him and published after his death in 1867. The work was a highly successful popularization of Greek mythology for English-speaking readers. Carl J. Richard comments that it was \"one of the most popular books ever published in the United States and the standard work on classical mythology for nearly a century,\" until the release of classicist Edith Hamilton's 1942 \"Mythology: Timeless Tales of Gods and Heroes\".\n\nThe book is a prose recounting of myths and stories from three eras: Greek and Roman mythology, King Arthur legends and medieval romances. Bulfinch intersperses the stories with his own commentary, and with quotations from writings by his contemporaries that refer to the story under discussion. This combination of classical elements and modern literature was novel for his time.\n\nBulfinch expressly intended his work for the general reader. In the preface to \"The Age of Fable\" he states \"Our work is not for the learned, nor for the theologian, nor for the philosopher, but for the reader of English literature, of either sex, who wishes to comprehend the allusions so frequently made by public speakers, lecturers, essayists, and poets, and those which occur in polite conversation.\"\n\nBulfinch originally published his work as three volumes: \"The Age of Fable, or Stories of Gods and Heroes\", published in 1855; \"The Age of Chivalry, or Legends of King Arthur\", published in 1858; and \"Legends of Charlemagne, or Romance of the Middle Ages,\" published in 1863. The original three volumes were later combined into a single volume titled \"Bulfinch's Mythology\", published in 1881. Now in the public domain, multiple editions of the combined work are still in print more than 150 years after the three books were published.\n\n"}
{"id": "32230593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32230593", "title": "City of Toronto Archives", "text": "City of Toronto Archives\n\nThe City of Toronto Archives is the municipal archives for the City of Toronto. It holds records created by the City of Toronto government and its predecessor municipalities from 1792 to the present day, as well as non-government records created by private groups and individuals. There are also over one million photographs of Toronto within its collection, with over 50,000 available to view on its website.\n\nThe oldest record in the Archives is a map of Toronto Harbour dated 1792, and the newest one is a DVD of the previous month's Toronto City Council meeting. Of the 1.2 million photographs within the Toronto Archives collection, the oldest are a set of twenty-five prints of the city taken in 1856-57 by the firm of photographers, Armstrong, Beere and Hime. These are the earliest known photographs of Toronto. Other important photographic collections are the William James collection, the Alexander Galbraith collection and the F.W. Micklethwaite collection, \"The Globe and Mail\" collection (1922–56), as well as over 100,000 photographs taken by city photographers.\n\nThe present Archives building was opened in 1992. It was designed by the architectural firm of Zeidler Roberts, who also designed the Toronto Eaton Centre, as a state-of-the-art purpose-built archives building incorporating a climate controlled records, a central atrium and exhibition area; a 60-seat theatre and a Research Hall.\n\nThe original purpose of the building was to hold the records of the government of Metropolitan Toronto. Since amalgamation in 1998, documents from the other six constituent municipalities have been housed there. Prior to amalgamation, the archives were held in the respective city halls.\n\n"}
{"id": "1826033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1826033", "title": "Comparative neuropsychology", "text": "Comparative neuropsychology\n\nComparative neuropsychology refers to an approach used for understanding human brain functions. It involves the direct evaluation of clinical neurological populations by employing experimental methods originally developed for use with nonhuman animals.\n\nOver many decades of animal research, methods were perfected to study the effects of well-defined brain lesions on specific behaviors, and later the tasks were modified for human use. Generally the modifications involve changing the reward from food to money, but standard administration of the tasks in humans still involves minimal instructions, thus necessitating a degree of procedural learning in human and nonhuman animals alike.\n\nCurrently, comparative neuropsychology is used with neurological patients to link specific deficits with localized areas of the brain.\n\nThe comparative neuropsychological approach employs simple tasks that can be mastered without relying upon language skills. Precisely because these simple paradigms do not require linguistic strategies for solution, they are especially useful for working with patients whose language skills are compromised, or whose cognitive skills may be minimal.\n\nComparative neuropsychology contrasts with the traditional approach of using tasks that rely upon linguistic skills, and that were designed to study human cognition. Because important ambiguities about its heuristic value had not been addressed empirically, only recently has comparative neuropsychology become popular for implementation with brain-damaged patients.\n\nWithin the past decade, comparative neuropsychology has had prevalent use as a framework for comparing and contrasting the performances of disparate neurobehavioral populations on similar tasks.\n\nComparative neuropsychology involves the study of brain-behavior relationships by applying experimental paradigms, used extensively in animal laboratories, for testing human clinical populations. Popular paradigms include delayed reaction tasks, discrimination and reversal learning tasks, and matching- and nonmatching-to-sample. These tasks are used to test animals and relate them to human brain functioning. Such tasks were perfected on experimental animals having well defined brain lesions, and adapted for human neurological patients. The comparative aspects of such approach resides in the analogy between animals with brain lesions and human patients with lesions in homologous areas of the brain. One example is represented by the comparison between the brain of laboratory animals (primarily non human primates and mice) with the one of people with damages resulting from alcohol abuse.\n\nGeorge Ettlinger was one of the few who actively combined human and animal research, and he did so consistently throughout his scientific career. Ettinger work focused on the importance of the inferior temporal neocortex in visual discrimination learning and memory in macaque monkeys, and on the importance of ventral temporal lobe in vision. Ettinger animals models carried inferotemporal or latero-ventral prestriate ablation. In 1966 George Ettlinger, together with the psychologist Colin Blakemore and the neurosurgeon Murray Falconer, described the results of a study on correlation between pre-operative intelligence and the severity of mesial temporal sclerosis in temporal lobe specimens excised to treat intractable epilepsy. Such study It is known as a forerunner of what has become one of the potentially most interesting techniques for exploring the relationship between certain aspects of human memory and temporal lobe structures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12115370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12115370", "title": "Comparison of e-book formats", "text": "Comparison of e-book formats\n\nThe following is a comparison of e-book formats used to create and publish e-books.\n\nThe EPUB format is the most widely supported vendor-independent XML-based (as opposed to PDF) e-book format; that is, it is supported by the largest number of e-Readers, including Amazon Kindle Fire (but not standard Kindle). See table below for details. \nFormats available include, but are not limited to:\n\nThe digital book format originally used by Sony Corporation. It is a proprietary format, but some reader software for general-purpose computers, particularly under GNU/Linux (for example, Calibre's internal viewer), have the capability to read it. The LRX file extension represents a DRM encrypted eBook. More recently, Sony has converted its books from BBeB to EPUB and is now issuing new titles in EPUB.\n\nCHM format is a proprietary format based on HTML. Multiple pages and embedded graphics are distributed along with metadata as a single compressed file. The indexing is both for keywords for full text search.\n\nThe Digital Accessible Information SYstem (DAISY) is an XML-based open standard published by the National Information Standards Organization (NISO) and maintained by the DAISY Consortium for people with print disabilities. DAISY has wide international support with features for multimedia, navigation and synchronization. A subset of the DAISY format has been adopted by law in the United States as the National Instructional Material Accessibility Standard (NIMAS), and K-12 textbooks and instructional materials are now required to be provided to students with disabilities.\n\nDAISY is already aligned with the EPUB technical standard, and is expected to fully converge with its forthcoming EPUB3 revision.\n\nDjVu is a format specialized for storing scanned documents. It includes advanced compressors optimized for low-color images, such as text documents. Individual files may contain one or more pages. DjVu files cannot be re-flowed.\n\nThe contained page images are divided in separate layers (such as multi-color, low-resolution, background layer using lossy compression, and few-colors, high-resolution, tightly compressed foreground layer), each compressed in the best available method. The format is designed to decompress very quickly, even faster than vector-based formats.\n\nThe advantage of DjVu is that it is possible to take a high-resolution scan (300–400 DPI), good enough for both on-screen reading and printing, and store it very efficiently. Several dozens of 300 DPI black-and-white scans can be stored in less than a megabyte.\n\nDOC is a document file format that is directly supported by few ebook readers. Its advantages as an ebook format is that it can be easily converted to other ebook formats and it can be reflowed. It can be easily edited.\n\nDOCX is a document file format that is directly supported by few ebook readers. Its advantages as an ebook format are that it can be easily converted to other ebook formats and it can be reflowed. It can be easily edited.\n\nThe .epub or OEBPS format is a technical standard for e-books created by the International Digital Publishing Forum (IDPF).\n\nThe EPUB format has gained some popularity as a vendor-independent XML-based e-book format. The format can be read by the Kobo eReader, BlackBerry devices, Apple's iBooks app running on Macintosh computers and iOS devices, Google Play Books app running on Android and iOS devices, Barnes & Noble Nook, Amazon Kindle Fire, Sony Reader, BeBook, Bookeen Cybook Gen3 (with firmware v2 and up), Adobe Digital Editions, Lexcycle Stanza, FBReader, PocketBook eReader, Aldiko, the Mozilla Firefox add-on EPUBReader, Lucifox, Okular and other reading apps.\n\nAdobe Digital Editions uses .epub format for its e-books, with digital rights management (DRM) protection provided through their proprietary ADEPT mechanism. The ADEPT framework and scripts have been reverse-engineered to circumvent this DRM system.\n\neReader is a freeware program for viewing Palm Digital Media electronic books which use the pdb format used by many Palm applications. Versions are available for Android, BlackBerry, iOS, Palm OS (not webOS), Symbian, Windows Mobile Pocket PC/Smartphone, and macOS. The reader shows text one page at a time, as paper books do. eReader supports embedded hyperlinks and images. Additionally, the Stanza application for the iPhone and iPod touch can read both encrypted and unencrypted eReader files.\n\nThe program supports features like bookmarks and footnotes, enabling the user to mark any page with a bookmark and any part of the text with a footnote-like commentary. Footnotes can later be exported as a Memo document.\n\nOn July 20, 2009, Barnes & Noble made an announcement implying that eReader would be the company's preferred format to deliver e-books. Exactly three months later, in a press release by Adobe, it was revealed Barnes & Noble would be joining forces with the software company to standardize the EPUB and PDF eBook formats. Barnes & Noble e-books are now sold mostly in EPUB format.\n\nFictionBook is a popular XML-based e-book format, supported by free readers such as PocketBook eReader, FBReader, Okular, CoolReader, Bebook and STDU Viewer.\n\nThe FictionBook format does not specify the appearance of a document; instead, it describes its structure and semantics. All the ebook metadata, such as the author name, title, and publisher, is also present in the ebook file. Hence the format is convenient for automatic processing, indexing, and ebook collection management. This also is convenient to store books in it for later automatic conversion into other formats.\n\nAPABI is a format devised by Founder Electronics. It is a popular format for Chinese e-books. It can be read using the Apabi Reader software, and produced using Apabi Publisher. Both .xeb and .ceb files are encoded binary files. The Iliad e-book device includes an Apabi 'viewer'.\n\nHTML is the markup language used for most web pages. E-books using HTML can be read using a Web browser. The specifications for the format are available without charge from the W3C.\n\nHTML adds specially marked meta-elements to otherwise plain text encoded using character sets like ASCII or UTF-8. As such, suitably formatted files can be, and sometimes are, generated \"by hand\" using a \"plain text editor\" or \"programmer's editor\". Many \"HTML generator\" applications exist to ease this process and often require less intricate knowledge of the format details involved.\n\nHTML on its own is not a particularly efficient format to store information in, requiring more storage space for a given work than many other formats. However, several e-Book formats including the Amazon Kindle, Open eBook, Compiled HTML, Mobipocket and EPUB store each book chapter in HTML format, then use ZIP compression to compress the HTML data, images, metadata and style sheets into a single, significantly smaller, file.\n\nHTML files encompass a wide range of standards and displaying HTML files correctly can be complicated. Additionally many of the features supported, such as forms, are not relevant to e-books.\n\nThe .ibooks format is created with the free iBooks Author ebook layout software from Apple Inc.. This proprietary format is based on the EPUB standard, with some differences in the CSS tags used in an ibooks format file, thus making it incompatible with the EPUB specification. The End-User Licensing Agreement (EULA) included with iBooks Author states that \"If you want to charge a fee for a work that includes files in the .ibooks format generated using iBooks Author, you may only sell or distribute such work through Apple\". The \"through Apple\" will typically be in the Apple iBooks store. The EULA further states that \"This restriction does not apply to the content of such works when distributed in a form that does not include files in the .ibooks format.\" Therefore, Apple has not included distribution restrictions in the iBooks Author EULA for ibooks format ebooks created in iBooks Author that are made available for free, and it does not prevent authors from re-purposing the content in other ebook formats to be sold outside the iBookstore. This software currently supports import and export functionally for three formats. ibook, Plain text and PDF. The iBooks Author 2.3 and later supports importing EPUB and export EPUB 3.0.\n\nIEC 62448 is an international standard created by International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), Technical Committee 100, Technical Area 10 (Multimedia e-publishing and e-book).\n\nThe current version of IEC 62448 is an umbrella standard that contains as appendices two concrete formats, XMDF of Sharp and BBeB of Sony. However, BBeB has been discontinued by Sony and the version of XMDF that is in the specification is out of date. The IEC TA10 group is discussing the next steps, and has invited the IDPF organization which has standardized EPUB to be a liaison. It is possible that the current version of EPUB and/or the forthcoming EPUB3 revision may be added to IEC 62448. Meanwhile, a number of Japanese companies have proposed that IEC standardize a proposed new Japanese-centric file format that is expected to unify DotBook of Voyager Japan and XMDF of Sharp. This new format has not been publicly disclosed as of November 2010 but it is supposed to cover basic representations for the Japanese language. Technically speaking, this revision is supposed to provide a Japanese minimum set, a Japanese extension set, and a stylesheet language. These issues were discussed in the TC100 meeting held in October 2010 but no decisions were taken besides offering the liaison status to IDPF.\n\nIBM created this e-book format and used it extensively for OS/2 and other of its operating systems. The INF files were often digital versions of printed books that came with some bundles of OS/2 and other products. There were many other newsletters and monthly publications (e.g.: EDM/2) available in the INF format too.\n\nThe advantage of INF is that it is very compact and very fast. It also supports images, reflowed text, tables and various list formats. INF files get generated by compiling the markup text files — in the Information Presentation Facility (IPF) format — into binary files.\n\nOriginally only IBM created an INF viewer and compiler, but later open source viewers like NewView, DocView and others appeared. There is also an open source IPF compiler named WIPFC, created by the Open Watcom project.\n\nWith the release of the Kindle Fire reader in late 2011, Amazon.com also released Kindle Format 8, also known as .AZW3. The .azw3 file format supports a subset of HTML5 and CSS3 features, with some additional nonstandard features; the new data is stored within a container which can also be used to store a Mobi content document, allowing limited backwards compatibility.\n\nOlder Kindle e-readers use the proprietary format, AZW. It is based on the Mobipocket standard, with a slightly different serial number scheme (it uses an asterisk instead of a dollar sign) and its own DRM formatting. Because the ebooks bought on the Kindle are delivered over its wireless system called Whispernet, the user does not see the AZW files during the download process. The Kindle format is available on a variety of platforms, such as through the Kindle app for the various mobile device platforms.\n\nDRM-protected LIT files are only readable in the proprietary Microsoft Reader program, as the .LIT format, otherwise similar to Microsoft's CHM format, includes Digital Rights Management features. Other third party readers, such as Lexcycle Stanza, can read unprotected LIT files.\n\nThe Microsoft Reader uses patented ClearType display technology. In Reader navigation works with a keyboard, mouse, stylus, or through electronic bookmarks. The Catalog Library records reader books in a personalized \"home page\", and books are displayed with ClearType to improve readability. A user can add annotations and notes to any page, create large-print e-books with a single command, or create free-form drawings on the reader pages. A built-in dictionary allows the user to look up words.\n\nIn August 2011, Microsoft announced they were discontinuing both Microsoft Reader and the use of the .lit format for ebooks at the end of August 2012, and ending sales of the format on November 8, 2011.\n\nThe Mobipocket e-book format is based on the Open eBook standard using XHTML and can include JavaScript and frames. It also supports native SQL queries to be used with embedded databases. There is a corresponding e-book reader.\n\nThe Mobipocket Reader has a home page library. Readers can add blank pages in any part of a book and add free-hand drawings. Annotations – highlights, bookmarks, corrections, notes, and drawings – can be applied, organized, and recalled from a single location. Images are converted to GIF format and have a maximum size of 64K, sufficient for mobile phones with small screens, but rather restrictive for newer gadgets. Mobipocket Reader has electronic bookmarks, and a built-in dictionary.\n\nThe reader has a full screen mode for reading and support for many PDAs, Communicators, and Smartphones. Mobipocket products support most Windows, Symbian, BlackBerry and Palm operating systems, but not the Android platform. Using WINE, the reader works under Linux or Mac OS X. Third-party applications like Okular and FBReader can also be used under Linux or Mac OS X, but they work only with unencrypted files.\n\nThe Amazon Kindle's AZW format is basically just the Mobipocket format with a slightly different serial number scheme (it uses an asterisk instead of a dollar sign), and .prc publications can be read directly on the Kindle. The Kindle AZW format also lacks some Mobipocket features such as JavaScript.\n\nAmazon has developed an .epub to .mobi converter called KindleGen, and it supports IDPF 1.0 and IDPF 2.0 EPUB format.\n\nA multimedia ebook is media and book content that utilizes a combination of different book content formats. The term can be used as a noun (a medium with multiple content formats) or as an adjective describing a medium as having multiple content formats.\n\nThe \"multimedia ebook\" term is used in contrast to media which only utilize traditional forms of printed or text books. Multimedia ebooks include a combination of text, audio, images, video, or interactive content formats. Much like how a traditional book can contain images to help the text tell a story, a multimedia ebook can contain other elements not formerly possible to help tell the story.\n\nWith the advent of more widespread tablet-like computers, such as the smartphone, some publishing houses are planning to make multimedia ebooks, such as Penguin.\n\nCommonly known as a Newton Book, but officially referred to as a Newton Digital Book; a single Newton package file can contain multiple books (for example, the three books of a trilogy might be packaged together). Newton Books are created using Newton Press, or, for more advanced content, Newton Book Maker and Newton Toolkit.\n\nAll systems running the Newton operating system (the most common include the Newton MessagePads, eMates, Siemens Secretary Stations, Motorola Marcos, Digital Ocean Seahorses and Tarpons) have built-in support for viewing Newton books, through a system service known as Newton Book Reader. The Newton package format was released to the public by Newton, Inc. prior to that company's absorption into Apple Computer. The format is thus arguably open and various people have written readers for it (writing a Newton book converter has even been assigned as a university-level class project).\n\nNewton books have no support for DRM or encryption. They do support internal links, potentially multiple tables of contents and indexes, embedded gray scale images, and even some scripting capability using NewtonScript (for example, it's possible to make a book in which the reader can influence the outcome). Newton books utilize Unicode and are thus available in numerous languages. An individual Newton Book may actually contain multiple views representing the same content in different ways (such as for different screen resolutions).\n\nOPF is an XML-based e-book format created by E-Book Systems; it has been superseded by the EPUB electronic publication standard.\n\nInvented by Adobe Systems, and first released in 1993, PDF became ISO 32000 in 2008. The format was developed to provide a platform-independent means of exchanging fixed-layout documents. Derived from PostScript, but without language features like loops, PDF adds support for features such as compression, passwords, semantic structures and DRM. Because PDF documents can easily be viewed and printed by users on a variety of computer platforms, they are very common on the World Wide Web and in document management systems worldwide. The current PDF specification, ISO 32000-1:2008, is available from ISO's website, and under special arrangement, without charge from Adobe.\n\nBecause the format is designed to reproduce fixed-layout pages, re-flowing text to fit mobile device and e-book reader screens has traditionally been problematic. This limitation was addressed in 2001 with the release of PDF Reference 1.5 and \"Tagged PDF\", but 3rd party support for this feature was limited until the release of PDF/UA in 2012.\n\nMany products support creating and reading PDF files, such as Adobe Acrobat, PDFCreator and OpenOffice.org, and several programming libraries such as iText and FOP. Third party viewers such as xpdf and Nitro PDF are also available. Mac OS X has built-in PDF support, both for creation as part of the printing system and for display using the built-in Preview application.\n\nPDF files are supported by almost all modern e-book readers, tablets and smartphones. However, PDF reflow based on Tagged PDF, as opposed to re-flow based on the actual sequence of objects in the content-stream, is not yet commonly supported on mobile devices. Such Re-flow options as may exist are usually found under \"view\" options, and may be called \"word-wrap\".\n\nThe first e-books in history were in plain text (.txt) format, supplied for free by the Project Gutenberg community, but the format itself existed before the e-book era. The plain text format doesn't support digital rights management (DRM) or formatting options (such as different fonts, graphics or colors), but it has excellent portability as it is the simplest e-book encoding possible as a plain text file contains only ASCII or Unicode text (text files with UTF-8 or UTF-16 encoding are also popular for languages other than English). Almost all operating systems can read ASCII text files (e.g. Unix, Macintosh, Microsoft Windows, DOS and other systems) and newer operating systems support Unicode text files as well. The only potential for portability problems of ASCII text files is that operating systems differ in their preferred line ending convention and their interpretation of values outside the ASCII range (their character encoding). Conversion of files from one to another line-ending convention is easy with free software. DOS and Windows uses CRLF, Unix and Apple's OS X use LF, Mac OS up to and including OS 9 uses CR. By convention, lines are often broken to fit into 80 characters, a legacy of older terminals and consoles. Alternately, each paragraph may be a single line.\n\nWhen Unicode is not in use, the size in bytes of a text file is simply the number of characters, including spaces, and with a new line counting for 1 or 2. For example, the Bible, which is approximately 800,000 words, is about 4 MB.\n\nPlucker is an Open Source free mobile and desktop e-book reader application with its own associated file format and software to automatically generate Plucker files from text, PDF, HTML, or other document format files, web sites or RSS feeds. The format is public and well-documented. Free readers are available for all kinds of desktop computers and many PDAs.\n\nPostScript is a page description language used in the electronic and desktop publishing areas for defining the contents and layout of a printed page, which can be used by a rendering program to assemble and create the actual output bitmap. Many office printers directly support interpreting PostScript and printing the result. As a result, the format also sees wide use in the Unix world.\n\nRich Text Format is a document file format that is supported by many ebook readers. Its advantages as an ebook format is that it is widely supported, and it can be reflowed. It can be easily edited. It can be easily converted to other ebook formats, increasing its support.\n\nThe digital book format used by a popular digital library company 超星数字图书馆 in China. It is a proprietary raster image compression and binding format, with reading time OCR plug-in modules. The company scanned a huge number of Chinese books in the China National Library and this becomes the major stock of their service. The detailed format is not published. There are also some other commercial e-book formats used in Chinese digital libraries.\n\nTEI Lite is the most popular of the TEI-based (and thus XML-based or SGML-based) electronic text formats.\n\nThe TomeRaider e-book format is a proprietary format. There are versions of TomeRaider for Windows, Windows Mobile (aka Pocket PC), Palm, Symbian and iPhone. Several Wikipedias are available as with all articles unabridged, some even with nearly all images. Capabilities of the TomeRaider3 e-book reader vary considerably per platform: the Windows and Windows Mobile editions support full HTML and CSS. The Palm edition supports limited HTML (e.g., no tables, no fonts), and CSS support is missing. For Symbian there is only the older TomeRaider2 format, which does not render images or offer category search facilities. Despite these differences any TomeRaider e-book can be browsed on all supported platforms. The Tomeraider website claims to have over 4000 e-books available, including free versions of the Internet Movie Database and Wikipedia.\n\nOpen XML Paper Specification (also referred to as OpenXPS) is an open specification for a page description language and a fixed-document format. Microsoft developed it as the XML Paper Specification (XPS). In June 2009, Ecma International adopted it as international standard ECMA-388.\n\nThe format is intentionally restricted to sequences of:\nGlyphs (a fixed run of text),\nPaths (a geometry that can be filled, or stroked, by a brush), and\nBrushes (a description of a shaped brush used to in rendering paths).\n\nThis reduces the possibility of inadvertent introduction of malicious content and simplifies the implementation of compatible renderers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9942753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9942753", "title": "Comparison of online music stores", "text": "Comparison of online music stores\n\nThe following table lists online music stores that carry a selection of songs by many record labels and artists.\n\nMSN Music closed on November 14, 2006. Its DRM servers were originally scheduled to shutdown August 31, 2008, but they later relented and committed to keeping the DRM servers active through the end of 2011.\n\nYahoo! Music Unlimited ceased operating on September 30, 2008. Users' purchases were transferred to Rhapsody.\n\nWal-Mart Stores operated an online music store, but discontinued it in 2011.\n\nPuretracks operated an online music store, but discontinued it in 2013.\n\nGhostTunes closed on March 3, 2017.\n\nMicrosoft Store removed music sales from its store on December 31, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "6124305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6124305", "title": "Comparison of portable media players", "text": "Comparison of portable media players\n\nThe following comparison of portable media players compares general and technical information for notable digital playback devices.\n\n"}
{"id": "3293786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3293786", "title": "Country codes: R", "text": "Country codes: R\n"}
{"id": "1388536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1388536", "title": "Cubital index", "text": "Cubital index\n\nCubital index is the ratio of two of the wing vein segments of honeybees. The cubital index is used in morphology, the study of form and structure, one way to differentiate species and sub species of living organisms. The pattern of the veins of the fore wings is specific for each breed of bees. The cubital index is consistent for a given race of bee. It can be used to distinguish between similar populations of honeybees and to determine degrees of hybridization. \n\nTo obtain reliable average results, at least 100 bee fore wings have to be analyzed. Measurements are taken under a dissecting microscope with a magnification of 10x to 20x.\n\n"}
{"id": "26207007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26207007", "title": "Czechoslovak declaration of independence", "text": "Czechoslovak declaration of independence\n\nThe Czechoslovak Declaration of Independence or the Washington Declaration (; ) was drafted in Washington, D.C. and published by Czechoslovakia's Paris-based Provisional Government on 18 October 1918. The creation of the document, officially the Declaration of Independence of the Czechoslovak Nation by Its Provisional Government (), was prompted by the imminent collapse of the Habsburg Austro-Hungarian Empire, of which the Czech and Slovak lands had been part for almost 400 years, following the First World War.\n\nIn the autumn of 1918, the Austro-Hungarian monarchy was collapsing. As one of his Fourteen Points, U.S. president Woodrow Wilson demanded that the nationalities of the empire have the \"freest opportunity to autonomous development\". On 14 October 1918, Foreign Minister Baron István Burián von Rajecz asked for an armistice based on the Fourteen Points. In an apparent attempt to demonstrate good faith, Emperor Charles I issued a proclamation two days later which would have significantly altered the structure of the Austrian half of the monarchy. The Imperial Austria was to be transformed into a federal union composed of four parts—German, Czech, South Slav and Ukrainian (Galicia would be allowed to secede). Each of these was to be governed by a national council that would negotiate the future of the empire with Vienna, and Trieste was to receive a special status. \n\nHowever, on that same day, a Czecho-Slovak provisional government joined the Allies. This provisional government had begun drafting a Declaration of Independence on 13 October and completed its task on 16 October. The document was drafted by Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk and American sculptor Gutzon Borglum (Borglum hosted future soldiers of a Czecho-Slovak army on his farm in Stamford, Connecticut.) On 17 October, Masaryk presented it to the U.S. government and the president. It was published in Paris 18 October 1918 with authorship attributed to Masaryk. \n\nOn the same day, United States Secretary of State Robert Lansing replied that the Allies were now committed to the causes of the Czechs, Slovaks, and South Slavs. Therefore, Lansing said, autonomy for the nationalities – the tenth of the Fourteen Points – was no longer enough and Washington could not deal on the basis of the Fourteen Points any more. The Lansing note was, in effect, the death certificate of Austria-Hungary. The national councils had already begun acting more or less as provisional governments of independent countries. With defeat in the war imminent after the Italian offensive in the Battle of Vittorio Veneto on 24 October, Czech politicians peacefully took over command in Prague on 28 October (later declared the birthday of Czecho-Slovakia) and followed up in other major cities in the next few days. On 30 October, the Slovaks followed with the Martin Declaration and the Austro-Hungarian state was dissolved the next day.\n\nMuch of the declaration catalogues a litany of grievances against the Habsburgs. In the latter portion of the document declares a Czecho-Slovak Republic with freedom of religion, speech, the press and the right of assembly and petition, separation of church from the state, universal suffrage, and equal rights for women. The declaration calls for a parliamentary political system with respect for rights of national minorities shall use equal rights. Social, economic, and land reform is announced along with the cancellation of aristocratic privileges. The declaration uses the term \"Czechoslovak nation\" \"(národ československý)\", which deviates from formulations Cleveland and Pittsburgh Agreements, which defined two separate Czech and Slovak nations. The declaration is signed Masaryk (as Prime Minister and Minister of Finance), Milan Rastislav Štefánik (as Minister of National Defense) and Edvard Beneš (as Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Interior).\n\n"}
{"id": "18055992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18055992", "title": "Describing Archives: A Content Standard", "text": "Describing Archives: A Content Standard\n\nDescribing Archives: A Content Standard (DACS) is a standard used for describing materials in an archive. First adopted by the Society of American Archivists (SAA) in March 2004, DACS was updated with a Second Edition in 2013. DACS is broken down into a set of rules used in crafting archival descriptions, and guidelines for creating authority records in archives.\n\nWhen fully adopted in 2005, DACS replaced Archives, Personal Papers, and Manuscripts, the previous SAA archival cataloging standard. As of the Second Edition, it consists of two parts: Part I, Describing Archival Materials, and Part II, Archival Authority Records. DACS is mostly concerned with providing a framework for creating an archival catalog through description and authority records, and is closely related to both the library-focused cataloging rules of Resource Description and Access (RDA) and the international description standards formed by ISAD(G). The main goal of archival description is to assist users in finding the documents they are looking for through the creation of access tools such as catalogs or finding aids, and DACS exists to provide a standard for creating those tools. DACS has now been widely adopted by the archival community throughout the United States. It is currently maintained by the SAA's Technical Subcommittee on Describing Archives: A Content Standard and the most up-to-date version is hosted on their GitHub. \n\nUse of DACS is guided by a set of 8 principles, which serve to elucidate why archival description is separate from library description and to give guidance in applying DACS. They are as follows:\n\n\nThe first part of DACS deals with rules for crafting archival description. It can be broken down into levels of description, with each level adding a layer of complexity. DACS discretely describes these levels as \"Single Level Required\", \"Single Level Optimum\", \"Single Level Added Value\", \"Multilevel Required\", \"Multilevel Optimum\", and \"Multilevel Added Value\". Every level requires that the DACS metadata elements from the previous levels are complete, and that the relationship between the current level and previous levels are clearly presented. The rest of Part I defines the metadata elements required for each level of description. \n\nThe second part of DACS is concerned with creating records that establish the context in which an archival material was created, appraised, and included in an archive. There are three steps in creating these authority records: identifying the people or organizations involved in creating the record, assembling biographical data relating to those creators, and applying a standard such as Resource Description and Access to the names so that the names can be easily referenced between institutions. These authority records can then either be incorporated into metadata of an archival records or separate authority records can be created, which are then linked with the archival materials.\n\nWhile the first edition expanded on the basic rules for describing archival material that are found in chapter 4 of the deprecated library cataloging standard, Anglo-American Cataloguing Rules (AACR2), the second edition of DACS more closely relates to AACR2's successor, Resource Description and Access (RDA). DACS serves as the US implementation of international archival descriptive standards such as ISAD(G) and the International Standard Archival Authority Record. It also provides crosswalks from DACS to MARC, Encoded Archival Description (EAD), RDA, and Encoded Archival Context (EAC-CPF). DACS specifies only the type of content, not the structural or encoding requirements or the actual verbiage to be used; it is therefore suitable for use in conjunction with structural and encoding standards, such as MARC and EAD, and with controlled vocabularies such as Medical Subject Headings, Library of Congress Subject Headings, Art & Architecture Thesaurus, and so on.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5314789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5314789", "title": "Dick Beyer", "text": "Dick Beyer\n\nRichard Beyer (born July 11, 1930) is an American retired professional wrestler who is best known by his ring names, The Destroyer or Doctor X. Beyer has worked extensively in Japan and in 2017 he was awarded one of the country's highest honors, the Order of the Rising Sun.\nAs an athlete at Syracuse University, Beyer was a member of the varsity football and wrestling teams. He played in the 1953 Orange Bowl for Syracuse. Beyer graduated with a Masters Degree in education and is a member of the Fraternity of Phi Gamma Delta's Syracuse Chapter. Beyer is also an Eagle Scout in the Boy Scouts of America. Beyer was a teacher in New York until he began his wrestling career, and he also coached swimming.\n\nBeyer began as a \"babyface\" wrestler in the mid-1950s. His career as a \"masked\" wrestler, The Destroyer, began in 1962 in Los Angeles. He used the \"figure-four-leg-lock\" on his way to the Worldwide Wrestling Associates (WWA) championship on July 27, 1962 in a win over Freddie Blassie, who convinced him that the mask gimmick would give him a large \"push\". Beyer went on to defend the WWA title for 10 months.\nIn early 1963, Beyer wrestled three sold-out matches against Shohei \"Giant\" Baba at the Olympic Auditorium in Los Angeles. In May 1963, Beyer traveled to Japan for the first time, to wrestle with Rikidōzan, in a match watched by 70 million TV viewers. In June 1964, Beyer returned to Los Angeles and beat Dick the Bruiser for another WWA title. Beyer lost the title to Bob Ellis in September, won it back in November, and then lost it for the last time in March 1965 to Pedro Morales.\nBetween 1966 and 1972, Beyer wrestled as Doctor X while in Minneapolis, although he was known as \"The Destroyer\" elsewhere. During his time as Doctor X, Beyer had matches with many of the top names in the business including his real life brother-in-law Billy Red Lyons. In fact, it was Lyons who handed \"X\" his first American Wrestling Association (AWA) defeat on Minneapolis television when he defeated the good Doctor with a figure four leg lock. In August 1970, \"X\" removed his own mask to get a chance at revenge against his former partner Black Jack Lanza. He stood in center ring with announcer Marty O'Neill, who told the fans that \"X\" was a former coach from Syracuse University. \"X\" then removed his mask, handed it to St. Paul promoter Eddie Williams, and wrestled the match as Dick Beyer.\nIn other AWA cities, he was actually unmasked by both Lanza and Paul Diamond. In these matches, his name was revealed to be Bruce Marshall. The reason for Beyer wanting to be unmasked was that, he and his family were set to go on a world tour, where he would also wrestle again as The Destroyer. It has been speculated that by late August 1970, Beyer had already left the AWA and that it was \"jobber\" Bobby Jones under the mask. When Beyer removed his own mask on the August 8, 1970 card in St. Paul. During 1972, Beyer had several battles with \"Crippler\" Ray Stevens. Their last match resulted in Beyer as Doctor X having his leg \"broken.\" This \"injury\" allowed Beyer to leave the Minneapolis area to join a wrestling tour in Japan.\n\nFrom 1973, Beyer wrestled in Japan for six straight years, in a deal with Giant Baba and NTV of Tokyo. During his tenure in Japan, he had a feud with Mil Máscaras which resulted in a series of seven matches. Beyer also helped promote All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW) for Giant Baba and established himself as a television personality in a late-night TV show called \"Uwasa No Channel\". Beyer held the PWF United States Championship until 1979, when he left AJPW and the championship was abandoned.\n\nBeyer went into semi-retirement in 1984. From 1984-95, Beyer taught physical education in the Akron, New York Central School District, where he also coached football, wrestling and swimming. Beyer now lives in Akron, New York. He serves on the Board of Directors of the Cauliflower Alley Club, which holds annual reunions in Las Vegas. He is a member of Toastmasters International, a public speaking club, and carries the club designation of Certified Toastmaster. He Inducted Gorgeous George into the WWE Hall of Fame on March 27, 2010.\n\nOn August 27, 2011, Beyer, along with his son, returned to Japan to take part in All Together, a charity event held together by AJPW, New Japan Pro Wrestling and Pro Wrestling Noah. Beyer, appearing under his Destroyer mask, hosted the Destroyer Cup and presented a trophy to its winner, Kentaro Shiga. In 2013, Beyer opened Destroyer Park Golf in Akron; the first Park golf course in the United States.\n\nOn November 4, 2017, it was announced that Beyer would be awarded the Order of the Rising Sun, Gold and Silver Rays, by the Japanese government for \"a lifetime spent promoting goodwill and bi-cultural exchanges between Japan and the United States\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28322305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28322305", "title": "Dumbarton Oaks Medieval Library", "text": "Dumbarton Oaks Medieval Library\n\nThe Dumbarton Oaks Medieval Library (est. 2010) is a series of books published by Harvard University Press in collaboration with the Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection. It presents editions of texts originally written in medieval Latin, Byzantine Greek, and Old English, with facing-page translations into modern English. The aim is to make such texts accessible to English-speaking scholars and general readers.\n\nThe general editor of the series is Jan M. Ziolkowski. The language editors are Daniel Donoghue (Old English), Danuta Shanzer (Medieval Latin), and Alice-Mary Talbot (Byzantine Greek).\n\nThe series is a sister of three others published by Harvard University Press: Loeb Classical Library, I Tatti Renaissance Library, and Murty Classical Library of India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1575069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1575069", "title": "Five Young American Poets", "text": "Five Young American Poets\n\nFive Young American Poets was a three volume series of poetry collections released from 1940 to 1944. The series was published by New Directions Publishers (Norfolk, Connecticut; James Laughlin, publisher). \n\nVolume I - 1940 includes selected poetry by:\nReviews.\n\nVolume II - 1941 includes selected poetry by:\n\nVolume III - 1944 includes selected poetry by:\n"}
{"id": "57981613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57981613", "title": "Frank Dowsing", "text": "Frank Dowsing\n\nFrank Dowsing was the first African-American to play football for both Tupelo High School and Mississippi State University.\n\nIn the fall of 1967, Tupelo instituted a \"choice\" system, whereby students at all-white Tupelo High School and all-black Carver High School were given the opportunity to choose which school to attend. While no white students chose Carver, Dowsing was one of five African-American students who chose to attend Tupelo High School, and was the first to play football. Unlike school integration in many other areas of Mississippi and the South, this was a peaceful event. Because of a broken jaw, which had been wired shut, Dowsing was unable to speak or practice football at the beginning of school. His first action was for the B team, where he scored a touchdown on the opening play. Dowsing earned all conference honors in football, basketball, and track, and graduated sixth in his class. He also set a state record by running the 100 yard dash in 9.5 seconds.\n\nDue to recruitment efforts by former Tupelo resident and future Mississippi State basketball coach Kermit Davis, he enrolled at Mississippi State, where he was also the first black football player. At MSU, Dowsing was an all-American as a defensive back, an academic all-American, and was elected Mr. Mississippi State by his fellow students. This was the first time a black student had won any sort of election at the school. Just before graduation, he married LaFawn Gilliam in the Chapel of Memories at Mississippi State.\n\nUpon graduation, Dowsing was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles, but instead chose to fulfill a lifelong dream by attended medical school at the Mississippi University School of Medicine. Within two years of their marriage, Dowsing was divorced, and dropped out of medical school in his third year. This was probably largely due to a secret: Dowsing was gay. Dowsing then worked for Bell Telephone in California, until he was diagnosed with AIDS in the late 1980s. He died of the disease in 1994.\n\nIn 2010, Dowsing was inducted into the Mississippi Hall of fame, where he was nicknamed \"The Jackie Robinson of Mississippi\". In 2017, Mississippi State dedicated a plaza at the football stadium to Dowsing.\n"}
{"id": "974375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=974375", "title": "George Gustav Heye Center", "text": "George Gustav Heye Center\n\nThe George Gustav Heye Center is a branch of the National Museum of the American Indian in Manhattan, New York City. The museum is part of the Smithsonian Institution. The Center features contemporary and historical exhibits of art and artifacts by and about Native Americans.\n\nThe center is named for George Gustav Heye, who began collecting Native American artifacts in 1903. He founded and endowed the Museum of the American Indian in 1916, and it opened in 1922, in a building at 155th Street and Broadway, part of the Audubon Terrace complex, in the Washington Heights neighborhood of upper Manhattan. That museum closed in 1994 and part of the collection is now housed at the Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House on Bowling Green in Lower Manhattan. The Beaux Arts-style building, designed by architect Cass Gilbert, was completed in 1907. It is a designated National Historic Landmark and a New York City landmark. The center’s exhibition and public access areas total about . The Heye Center offers a range of exhibitions, film and video screenings, school group programs and living culture presentations throughout the year.\n\nThe permanent collection of the Heye Center is called Infinity of Nations, and is designed to show the scope of the Smithsonian's collection. Organized by geographic regions (including Central and South America), the exhibit displays over 700 items and crosses the line from ethnology to art.\nMultimedia interactions include audio and video, and feature commentary by historians on specific objects. The rotunda is frequently used as a performance space, and features murals reflecting the history of the building, done by Reginald Marsh. Other galleries include the Photography Gallery, Special Exhibit Galleries, Contemporary Galleries, the Haudenosaunee Discovery Room, the Resource Center Reference Library, a small theater (which screens daily films), and the museum store. The ground floor of the building houses the Diker Pavilion for Native Arts and Culture and the Education Center (referred to as the Tipi Room).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59114617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59114617", "title": "Global Feminisms", "text": "Global Feminisms\n\nGlobal Feminisms is a feminist art exhibition that originally premiered at the Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art at the Brooklyn Museum, New York City, United States, in March 2007. \"Global Feminisms\" is the first international exhibition exclusively dedicated to feminist art from 1990 to present. The exhibition is co-curated by Maura Reilly and Linda Nochlin and consists of work by 88 women artists from around the world. \"Global Feminisms\" showcases work in all media forms, including painting, sculpture, photography, film, video, installation, and performance, with a focus on contemporary feminist art from a global perspective, and moving beyond the Western brand of feminism, which has become the dominant representation of feminism and feminist art since the 1970s.\n\nThe Brooklyn Museum, located in Brooklyn, New York, has a mission to create inspiring encounters with art that expand knowledge of ourselves, the world and its possibilities. The Brooklyn Museum holds itself to the highest standards of curatorial excellence, striving to create and present inspiring engagement with collections, while welcoming all visitors. Through action and impact, The Brooklyn Museum celebrates cultural vibrancy and helps build meaningful relationships. As an institution, they seek to create an environment that values experimentation and risk, trying new things, and adapting strategies through challenges and learning. The Brooklyn Museum is one of the oldest and largest art museums in the United States with roots extending back to 1823,\n\n\"Global Feminisms\" features the work of significant artists, including Pipilotti Rist, Catherine Opie, Patricia Piccinini, Lida Abdul, Hiroki Okuda, Ingrid Mwangi, Tanja Ostojić, Miwa Yanagi, Pilar Albarracín, Tracey Rose, Lin Tianmiao, Milica Tomić, Lee Bul, Latifa Echakhch, Jenny Saville, Dayanita Singh, Regina José Galindo, Tania Bruguera, Parastou Forouhar, Skowmon Hastanan, Ghada Amer, Yin Xiuzhen, Michèle Magema, Angela de la Cruz, Tracey Emin, among others. In addition to these feminist artists, the exhibition includes a catalogue with essays by Maura Reilly, Linda Nochlin, Geeta Kapur, Virginia Pérez-Ratton, Élisabeth Lebovici, Joan Kee, Charlotta Kotik, and N'Goné Fall.\n\n\"Global Feminisms\" showcases multiple forms of artworks. The show consists of work in a variety of media forms, such as painting, sculpture, photography, film, video, installation and performance. Artworks include Ryoko Suzuki (Japanese, b. 1970) \"Bind\", 2001, Boryana Rossa (Bulgarian, b. 1972) \"Celebrating the Next Twinkling\", 1999, Ingrid Mwangi (Kenyan, b. 1975) \"Static Drift\", 2001, Tania Bruguera (Cuban, b. 1968) \"Statistic (Estadistica)\", 1996, among many others.\n\nThe Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art is an exhibition and education environment within the Brooklyn Museum dedicated to presenting past, present and future forms of feminist art. The center's mission is to bring awareness to feminism and its cultural contributions, as well as educating new generations about feminist art, and to maintain a dynamic learning environment. The center is 8,300 square feet in size and encompasses a gallery devoted to the permanent installment of \"The Dinner Party\" by Judy Chicago. The Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art was established through the Elizabeth A. Sackler Foundation.\n\nThe \"Global Feminisms\" exhibition is arranged by theme. The question that surrounds the exhibition is 'what is feminist art?'. There are a number of definitions of feminist art, therefore, there are several themes throughout the exhibition. The exhibition is displayed in a space that is anchored by the permanent installation of Judy Chicago's \"Dinner Party\", consisting of multiple dinner place settings that resemble female genitalia representative of historical female figures. Themes within the exhibition include, openness, multiculturalism, variety, and gender inequality. \"Global Feminisms\" explores feminist issues among women across and within different cultures, races, classes, religions, and sexualities. Themes within these larger overarching thematic patterns include hysteria, death, pain, old age, war, sex, and motherhood. The installation at the Brooklyn Museum does not follow a linear chronology, but is organized by four categories which the works overlap: life cycles, identities, politics, and emotion. Life cycles consists of the stages of life from birth to death. Identities investigates the notions of the self, including racial, gender, political, and religious identities. Politics explores the world through women artists who have demonstrated that the political is personal. Emotions presents the conventional idea of women as emotional creatures and victims.\n\nDiscussion in front of feminist artworks within the exhibition revealed that most individuals would not identify the critique being made by the artist, but when given further information about the context of the artwork and the artist's intentions, viewers agree with the artists' points, but refused to identify with them. Most viewers would reveal that the work reminded them of someone that they knew, revealing the prominence of feminism and gender issues within society. In a written survey conducted after viewing feminist artworks at the Brooklyn Museum, participant responses revealed that participants had a new awareness of feminism. Furthermore, the process of reviewing meaningful artworks leads to personal transformations by means of education. In addition, there are many critiques of the use of the word 'global' in the title of the exhibition (\"Global Feminisms\"). It is said that \"Global Feminisms\" jumps back and forth between the success platforms of the marketplace and the institutional stage. It has been critiqued that most of the work within the exhibition is body-oriented and familiar to the point of old-fashioned. Many works from the 1960s and earlier consisted of the female body, but because of the age of the artwork were not considered for the exhibition. Instead, newer artworks also featuring the female body were displayed. Despite this, feminism is not a style, but a philosophy and a political instrument. It is not an aesthetic value as most categories of art, such as pop art, minimalism, or conceptual art are.\n"}
{"id": "42675374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42675374", "title": "Goldman-Cecil Medicine", "text": "Goldman-Cecil Medicine\n\nGoldman-Cecil Medicine is a medical textbook published by Elsevier. First released in 1927, the book is one of the most prominent and widely consulted medical textbooks in the United States. \"Goldman's Cecil Medicine\" is often compared with \"Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine\", which it predates by three decades. Approximately one third of its authors are changed with each new edition. It is currently in its 25th edition.\n\nThe book has been described as \"one of the most outstanding textbooks of medicine ever written\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007549", "title": "Hudud al-'Alam", "text": "Hudud al-'Alam\n\nThe Ḥudūd al-ʿĀlam ( \"Boundaries of the World\" or \"Limits of the World\") is a 10th-century geography book written in Persian by an unknown author from Jowzjan. The title in full is (\"Ḥudūd al-ʿĀlam min al-Mashriq ilá l-Maghrib\", \"The Boundaries of The World from The East to the West\").\n\nIn English, the title is also translated as \"The Regions of the World\" following Vladimir Minorsky's 1937 translation, in which he commented on the title as follows: \"The word ḥudūd (properly 'boundaries') in our case evidently refers to the 'regions within definite boundaries' into which the world is divided in the Ḥ.-'Ā., the author indicating with special care the frontiers of each one of these areas, v.i., p. 30. [As I use the word \"region\" mostly for \"nāḥiyat\" it would have been better, perhaps, to translate \"Ḥudūd al-Ālam\" as \"The limited areas of the World\".]\"\n\nFinished in 982 CE, it was dedicated to Abu'l Haret Muhammad, the ruler of the Farighunids. Its author is unknown, but Vladimir Minorsky has surmised that it might have been written by the enigmatic Šaʿyā bin Farīghūn, author of a pioneer encyclopedia of the sciences, the \"Jawāmeʿ al-ʿUlum\", for an amir of Čaghāniān on the upper Amu Darya in the mid-10th century. The available text of \"Ḥudūd al-ʿĀlam\" is part of a larger manuscript which contains other works: \n\n\nThe \"Ḥudūd al-ʿĀlam\" contains information about the known world. The anonymous author reports about different countries (\"nāḥiyat\"), people, languages, clothing, food, religion, local products, towns and cities, rivers, seas, lakes, islands, the steppe, deserts, topography, politics and dynasties, as well as trade. The inhabited world is divided in Asia, Europe and \"Libya\" (i.e. the Maghreb). The author counts a total of 45 different countries north of the equator. \n\nThe author never visited those countries personally, but rather compiled the book from earlier works and tales. He did not indicate his sources, but researchers deduced some, for example Estakhri \"Book of the Paths and Provinces\" (), or the works of Abu Abdallah al-Jayhani and Ibn Khordadbeh.\n\nAmong other things, Hudud al-Alam appears to mention Rus' Khaganate; it refers to the Rus' king as \"Khāqān-i Rus\". The unknown author is believed to have relied on several 9th-century sources.\n\nThe Orientalist Russian scholar Alexander Tumansky found a manuscript with a copy of this text in 1892 in Bukhara. The copy from the original was made by the Persian chronographer Abu l-Mu'ayyad ʿAbd al-Qayyūm ibn al-Ḥusain ibn 'Alī al-Farīsī in 1258. The facsimile edition with introduction and index was published by Vasily Bartold in 1930; a thoroughly commented English translation was made by Vladmir Minorsky in 1937, and a printed Persian text by Manouchehr Sotudeh in 1962\n\nThe sections of its geographical treatise which describes the margins of Islamic world, are of the greatest historical importance. The work also includes important early descriptions of the Turkic peoples in Central Asia. Also noteworthy is the archaic language and style of the \"Ḥudud\", which makes it a valuable linguistic document as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51216280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51216280", "title": "Hughes v Huppert", "text": "Hughes v Huppert\n\nHughes v Huppert [1991] 1 NZLR 474 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding affirmation.\n"}
{"id": "39923611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39923611", "title": "Humayun Azad bibliography", "text": "Humayun Azad bibliography\n\nThis bibliography contains a list of works by Humayun Azad.\n\nThe following is a list of books of poetry by Humayun Azad arranged chronologically by first edition.\n\nThe following is a list of fiction books by Humayun Azad arranged chronologically by first edition.\n\n"}
{"id": "31026412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31026412", "title": "Hut 4", "text": "Hut 4\n\nHut 4 was a wartime section of the Government Code and Cypher School (GC&CS) at Bletchley Park tasked with the translation, interpretation and distribution of \"Kriegsmarine\" (German navy) messages deciphered by Hut 8. The messages were largely encrypted by Enigma machines. As the Kriegsmarine operated Enigma more securely, Hut 8 had less information for Ultra than Hut 6 which handled Army and Air Force messages. Hut 4 also broke various hand cyphers and some Italian naval traffic.\nLocated initially in one of the original single-story wooden huts, the name \"Hut 4\" was retained when the section moved to a new brick building, Block A, in 1941.\n\nNaval Ultra was handled differently from Army and Air Force Ultra because the Admiralty was an operational HQ and could give orders during a battle; while the Imperial General Staff (Army) and Air Staff would give directives to theatre commanders general orders say to \"clear the enemy out of Africa\" with discretion over how to do it. Verbatim translations of naval decodes were sent to the Naval Intelligence Division (NID) of the Admiralty's Operational Intelligence Centre (OIC) in London and nowhere else (except for some naval intelligence sent directly from Bletchley to Commanders-in-Chief in the Mediterranean).\n\nHut 4 also decoded a manual system known as the \"dockyard cipher\". This sometimes carried messages that were also sent on an Enigma network. Feeding these back to Hut 8 provided excellent \"cribs\" for breaking the current naval Enigma key.\n\n\nNote: Frank Birch and Harry Hinsley were both associated with the naval section (Huts 4 & 8).\n\n"}
{"id": "27546352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27546352", "title": "Johann von Posilge", "text": "Johann von Posilge\n\nJohann von Posilge (c. 1340 – 1405) was a parish priest of Deutsch Eylau (Iława) and later assistant to Bishop of Pomesania. He is better known as the author of \"Chronik des Landes Preussen\", a chronicle detailing events in Prussia from around 1360. It is one of the most important sources on the history of the Teutonic Knights for the period. After his death, the chronicle was translated from Latin to German continued to 1420. Posilge was not a German, but a native Prussian, born in the village of Posilge (Żuławka Sztumska), east of Marienburg (Malbork). As such, he was more critical of the Knights and deviated from traditional overly panegyric chronicles of the time.\n"}
{"id": "8500003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8500003", "title": "Label dispenser", "text": "Label dispenser\n\nLabel dispensers and label applicators are machines built to simplify the process of removing a label from its liner or backing tape. Some are bench-top for dispensing the labels while others include the application of the label to the item (such as a package).\n\nLabel dispensers are generally intended to dispense a label to an operator who manually applies the label to the package. They are designed with varying sizes and features which are often specific to the type of label they can dispense and to the degree of automation desired.\n\nLabel applicators are usually part of a larger packaging line. They receive the package from a previous automation stage, apply the label, and feed the package to the next stage in the packaging line.\n\nLabel dispensers have many uses. Imagine how many items you purchase have labels, almost everything. Those labels were either applied by a machine or by hand, and most likely were peeled from the backing paper using some sort of label dispenser. Some of the more popular are bulk mailing, manufacturing, packaging, food and beverage, fast food, photo labs, and more.\n\nPatents on Manual label dispensers go back to the 1920s. They are designed for light-duty use. They are operated by hand and are not automated, but still assist in the process of removing labels from their liners. Many manual label dispensers can dispense multiple rolls at once. Operation is performed by pulling the liner/backing paper around a plate or bar which causes the label to peel away from the backing paper. This happens because the backing paper is usually thinner than the label itself and is also underneath. When the liner is forced around a tight radius the label lifts away and protrudes through the front or top of the dispenser.\n\nA price gun is a tool used in small and large retail outlets to label products with price stickers of varying sizes. While there are a wide variety of pricing gun manufacturers that offer different styles and features, most pricing guns operate in a similar manner i.e. dispensing price labels from a roll.\n\nUsing a price gun enables speedy price-marking for products and over-pricing for price reductions for sales or special offer items etc. One of the best benefits of the hand-held price gun is its efficiency and mobility i.e. they are small and lightweight and can be easily taken to the location where the products need to be labelled in store. The gun is held in one hand and by pulling the handle upwards the leading-edge of the roll of labels is pulled through the gun by its internal mechanism and thereby partly ejects one sticker out of the 'mouth' of the gun ready to be applied directly onto the product. The used backing paper is automatically separated from the labels as they are dispensed and that generally comes out the rear of the price gun ready for tearing off as required by the operative. Please see image and explanation.\n\nThere are two types of tagging guns, fine fabric and standard. Fine fabric guns are used for delicate materials such as silk and standard is generally used for general garments e.g. coats and knitwear etc. 'Taggers', as they are often referred to, are used widely in the retail industry for applying card material, store branded swing tickets, preprinted with product details and price etc., onto garments of all kinds.\n\nElectric Semi-automatic label dispensers were first patented in the early 1970s. They were originally designed for multiple-row address labels for bulk mailing houses. On average a good mailing house employee could apply approximately 500 labels per hour to envelopes. The label dispenser increased this to over 2,000 per hour. These dispensers advance individual or multiple-row labels and remove them from their lining similar to a manual dispenser, but instead of manually pulling on the liner, label advancement occurs when a trigger on the dispenser detects the absence of a label, such as when the operator removes the label. The sensor then closes the circuit and engages the motor, dispensing the next label until the sensor once again detects the label which opens the circuit.\nThe first electric dispenser was designed with the limit switch on the left of a 16\" wide machine. 4-up multiple-row labels were loaded into the machine and once activated would advance one row of labels. The operator would take the labels from right to left, so that when the leftmost label was taken, the next row advanced, automatically providing a constant supply of labels to apply. The labels are also peeled without the natural curl that will happen when pulled from the backing paper with fingers. Also, only one hand was needed to take the label, the other hand could be used to move the material the label was being applied to.\n\nSemi-automatic label dispensers are often built to withstand industrial conditions.\n\nLabel applicators are fully automated and can range from simple slower speed models to large machines capable of applying hundreds or even thousands of labels per minute.\n\nApplicators advance the label stock over the peeler plate until a portion of the label, called the \"flag,\" is extended into the path of the oncoming package. When the package engages the label flag, the label web is advanced to match the speed of the package and label is either tamped or wiped on to assure adhesion.\nProper alignment of the label on the package depends on sensors that sense the location/orientation of the package and label sensors that detect the location of the label edge. Package sensors can be a variety of Position sensors, often optical sensors or Ultrasonic sensors. Label sensors are usually Photoelectric sensors because they are inexpensive. But clear labels cannot be detected by photoelectric sensors. Capacitive and ultrasonic technologies are used for clear label detection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37639218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37639218", "title": "List of CGF country codes", "text": "List of CGF country codes\n\nThe Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) uses three-letter abbreviation country codes to refer to each group of athletes that participate in the Commonwealth Games. Each code identifies a Commonwealth Games Association.\n\nSeveral of the CGF codes are different from the standard ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 codes. Other sporting organisations, such as the International Olympic Committee or FIFA, use similar country codes to refer to their respective teams.\n\nThere are 70 current CGAs that participate at the Commonwealth Games. The following tables show the currently used code for each CGA and any different codes used in past Games. Some of the past code usage is further explained in the following sections.\n\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "39690099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39690099", "title": "List of public disclosures of classified information", "text": "List of public disclosures of classified information\n\nThis is a list of classified information and documents leaked to the public.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45184073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45184073", "title": "Mercurius Ventures Ltd v Waitakere City Council", "text": "Mercurius Ventures Ltd v Waitakere City Council\n\nMercurius Ventures Ltd v Waitakere City Council [1996] 2 NZLR 495 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding whether a contract illegal under law, can be subsequently validated under the Illegal Contracts Act 1970.\n\nThe Waitakere City Council sought to appoint a business development officer for the city. After interviewing numerous applicants for the position, the council decided to hire Ms Howe, and offered her a starting annual salary of $80,000. In reply to this offer, Howe said that as she had been earning $120,000 a year self-employed for the past 2 years.\n\nWDC then increased the starting salary to $100,000, which Howe accepted. However, thinking of the advantages (and not the disadvantages) of being a self-employed contractor, she asked the council if they would consider hiring her as a contractor for $120,000, which the council accepted, and Howe started work whilst the written contract was being drafted.\n\nSeveral months into the contract, due to an unworkable relationship with the WDC management, they notified Howe that they were canceling her contract, giving 1 months notice. The council claimed that such a contract had to be in writing, and as the contract had not been done, they claimed it was legally unenforceable.\nHowe initially made a claim for wrongfull dismissal with the Employment Court, but withdrew this when she realized she was not an employee, but a contractor, and proceeded to file a claim for breach of contract instead.\n\nDuring the discovery proceedings, the WDC discovered that her previous 2 years earnings were overstated, and they amended their defence to include misrepresentation.\n\nThe court validated the contract and awarded her damages of 1 month, $12,000.\n"}
{"id": "537402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537402", "title": "National Portrait Gallery, London", "text": "National Portrait Gallery, London\n\nThe National Portrait Gallery (NPG) is an art gallery in London housing a collection of portraits of historically important and famous British people. It was the first portrait gallery in the world when it opened in 1856. The gallery moved in 1896 to its current site at St Martin's Place, off Trafalgar Square, and adjoining the National Gallery. It has been expanded twice since then. The National Portrait Gallery also has regional outposts at Beningbrough Hall in Yorkshire and Montacute House in Somerset. It is unconnected to the Scottish National Portrait Gallery in Edinburgh, with which its remit overlaps. The gallery is a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport.\n\nThe gallery houses portraits of historically important and famous British people, selected on the basis of the significance of the sitter, not that of the artist. The collection includes photographs and caricatures as well as paintings, drawings and sculpture. One of its best-known images is the Chandos portrait, the most famous portrait of William Shakespeare although there is some uncertainty about whether the painting actually is of the playwright.\n\nNot all of the portraits are exceptional artistically, although there are self-portraits by William Hogarth, Sir Joshua Reynolds and other British artists of note. Some, such as the group portrait of the participants in the Somerset House Conference of 1604, are important historical documents in their own right. Often, the curiosity value is greater than the artistic worth of a work, as in the case of the anamorphic portrait of Edward VI by William Scrots, Patrick Branwell Brontë's painting of his sisters Charlotte, Emily and Anne, or a sculpture of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert in medieval costume. Portraits of living figures were allowed from 1969. In addition to its permanent galleries of historical portraits, the National Portrait Gallery exhibits a rapidly changing selection of contemporary work, stages exhibitions of portrait art by individual artists and hosts the annual BP Portrait Prize competition.\n\nThe three people largely responsible for the founding of the National Portrait Gallery are commemorated with busts over the main entrance. At centre is Philip Henry Stanhope, 4th Earl Stanhope, with his supporters on either side, Thomas Babington Macaulay, 1st Baron Macaulay (to Stanhope's left) and Thomas Carlyle (to Stanhope's right). It was Stanhope who, in 1846 as a Member of Parliament (MP), first proposed the idea of a National Portrait Gallery. It was not until his third attempt, in 1856, this time from the House of Lords, that the proposal was accepted. With Queen Victoria's approval, the House of Commons set aside a sum of £2000 to establish the gallery. As well as Stanhope and Macaulay, the founder Trustees included Benjamin Disraeli and Lord Ellesmere. It was the latter who donated the Chandos portrait to the nation as the gallery's first portrait. Carlyle became a trustee after the death of Ellesmere in 1857.\n\nFor the first 40 years, the gallery was housed in various locations in London. The first 13 years were spent at 29 Great George Street, Westminster. There, the collection increased in size from 57 to 208 items, and the number of visitors from 5,300 to 34,500. In 1869, the collection moved to Exhibition Road and buildings managed by the Royal Horticultural Society. Following a fire in those buildings, the collection was moved in 1885, this time to the Bethnal Green Museum. This location was ultimately unsuitable due to its distance from the West End, condensation and lack of waterproofing. Following calls for a new location to be found, the government accepted an offer of funds from the philanthropist William Henry Alexander. Alexander donated £60,000 followed by another £20,000, and also chose the architect, Ewan Christian. The government provided the new site, St Martin's Place, adjacent to the National Gallery, and £16,000. The buildings, faced in Portland stone, were constructed by Shillitoe & Son. Both the architect, Ewan Christian, and the gallery's first director, George Scharf, died shortly before the new building was completed. The gallery opened at its new location on 4 April 1896. The site has since been expanded twice. The first extension, in 1933, was funded by Lord Duveen, and resulted in the wing by architect Sir Richard Allison on a site previously occupied by St George's Barracks running along Orange Street.\n\nThe collections of the National Portrait Gallery were stored at Mentmore Towers in Buckinghamshire during the Second World War, along with pieces from the Royal Collection and paintings from Speaker's House in the Palace of Westminster.\n\nIn February 1909, a murder–suicide took place in a gallery known as the \"Arctic Room\". In an apparently planned attack, John Tempest Dawson, aged 70, shot his 58 year–old wife, Nannie Caskie; Dawson shot her from behind with a revolver, then shot himself in the mouth, dying instantly. His wife died in hospital several hours later. Both were American nationals who had lived in Hove for around 10 years. Evidence at the inquest suggested that Dawson, a wealthy and well–travelled man, was suffering from a Persecutory delusion. The incident came to public attention in 2010 when the Gallery's archive was put on-line as this included a personal account of the event by James Donald Milner, then the Assistant Director of the Gallery.\n\nThe second extension was funded by Sir Christopher Ondaatje and a £12m Heritage Lottery Fund grant, and was designed by London-based architects Edward Jones and Jeremy Dixon. The Ondaatje Wing opened in 2000 and occupies a narrow space of land between the two 19th-century buildings of the National Gallery and the National Portrait Gallery, and is notable for its immense, two-storey escalator that takes visitors to the earliest part of the collection, the Tudor portraits.\n\nIn January 2008, the Gallery received its largest single donation to date, a £5m gift from Aston Villa Chairman and U.S. billionaire Randy Lerner.\n\nIn January 2012, Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge announced the National Portrait Gallery as one of her official patronages. Her portrait was unveiled in January 2013. Reports in February 2014 revealed that the gallery holds nearly 20 portraits of Harriet Martineau and her brother James Martineau, whose great-nephew Francis Martineau Lupton was the Duchess's great-great-grandfather.\n\nBodelwyddan Castle's partnership with the National Portrait Gallery came to an end in 2017 after its funding was cut by Denbighshire County Council.\n\nIt was announced on 15 June 2017 that the NPG has been awarded funding of £9.4 million from the Heritage Lottery Fund towards its major transformation programme \"Inspiring People\", the Gallery’s biggest ever development. The Gallery had already raised over £7m of its £35.5m target. The building works are scheduled to start in 2020. The project's full title is subtitled \"Transforming the reach of the National Portrait Gallery\" \n\nIn addition to the busts of the three founders of the gallery over the entrance, the exterior of two of the original 1896 buildings are decorated with stone block busts of eminent portrait artists, biographical writers and historians. These busts, sculpted by Frederick R. Thomas, depict James Granger, William Faithorne, Edmund Lodge, Thomas Fuller, The Earl of Clarendon, Horace Walpole, Hans Holbein the Younger, Sir Anthony van Dyck, Sir Peter Lely, Sir Godfrey Kneller, Louis François Roubiliac, William Hogarth, Sir Joshua Reynolds, Sir Thomas Lawrence and Sir Francis Chantrey.\n\nThe National Portrait Gallery is an executive non-departmental public body of the UK Government, sponsored by the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport.\n\nThe National Portrait Gallery's total income in 2007–2008 amounted to £16,610,000, the majority of which came from government grant-in-aid (£7,038,000) and donations (£4,117,000). As of 31 March 2008, its net assets amounted to £69,251,000. In 2008, the NPG had 218 full-time equivalent employees. It is an exempt charity under English law.\n\n\nOn 14 July 2009, the National Portrait Gallery sent a demand letter alleging breach of copyright against an editor-user of Wikipedia, who downloaded thousands of high-resolution reproductions of public domain paintings from the NPG website, and placed them on Wikipedia's sister media repository site, Wikimedia Commons. The Gallery's position was that it held copyright in the digital images uploaded to Wikimedia Commons, and that it had made a significant financial investment in creating these digital reproductions. Whereas single-file low resolution images were already available on its website, the images added to Wikimedia Commons were re-integrated from separate files after the user \"found a way to get around their software and download high-resolution images without permission.\"\n\nIn 2012, the Gallery licensed 53,000 low-resolution images under a Creative Commons licence, making them available free of charge for non–commercial use. A further 87,000 high-resolution images are available for academic use under the Gallery's own licence that invites donations in return; previously, the Gallery charged for high-resolution images.\n\n, 100,000 images, around a third of the Gallery's collection, had been digitised.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58921383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58921383", "title": "Norwegian-American Genealogical Center &amp; Naeseth Library", "text": "Norwegian-American Genealogical Center &amp; Naeseth Library\n\nThe Norwegian-American Genealogical Center & Naeseth Library (NACGNL) is a not-for-profit Norwegian genealogy research center and library located at 415 West Main Street, Madison, Wisconsin. It is available to amateur and professional researchers through membership and fees for services. The library includes collections of Norwegian parish records, census records, government records, bygdebøker (a Norwegian language local history book), and family histories. The library holds American records, such as obituary records, immigration, and government records, and church records from the American Lutheran Church. An online access to some records is available to members. \n\nThe Norwegian-American Genealogical Center was founded by Gerhard Brandt Naeseth (1913-1994), a Norwegian-American scholar in genealogy and immigration research. The organization was originally associated with the Vesterheim museum in Decorah, Iowa from 1974 to 2006. Much of Naeseth's work was published in \"Norwegian Immigrants to the United States: A Biographical Directory, 1825-1850\", and was continued by the work of the staff of the NACGNL in the 1990's. In 1992, the organization moved to its current location in Madison and since 2007 has operated independently from Vesterheim.\n\n"}
{"id": "25057924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25057924", "title": "POSDCORB", "text": "POSDCORB\n\nPOSDCORB is an acronym widely used in the field of Management and Public Administration that reflects the classic view of Organizational theory. It appeared most prominently in a 1937 paper by Luther Gulick (in a set edited by himself and Lyndall Urwick). However, he first presented the concept in 1935. Initially, POSDCORB was envisioned in an effort to develop public service professionals. In Gulick's own words, the elements are as follows: Planning, Organizing, Staffing, Directing, Co-Ordinating, Reporting and Budgeting.\n\nIn his piece \"Notes on the Theory of Organization,\" a memo prepared while he was a member of the Brownlow Committee, Luther Gulick asks rhetorically \"What is the work of the chief executive? What does he do?\" POSDCORB is the answer, \"designed to call attention to the various functional elements of the work of a chief executive because 'administration' and 'management' have lost all specific content.\"\n\nAccording to Gulick, the elements are:\n\n\nGulick's \"Notes on the Theory of Organization\" further defines the patterns of POSDCORB. That document explains how portions of an executive's workload may be delegated, and that some of the elements can be organized as subdivisions of the executive depending on the size and complexity of the enterprise.\n\nUnder Organizing, Gulick emphasized the division and specialization of labor in a manner that would increase efficiency. Yet Gulick observed that there were limitations. Based on his practical experience, he carefully articulated the many factors.\n\nGulick described how the organization of workers could be done in four ways. According to him, these are related and may be multi-level. Specifically, they are:\n\nGulick stresses how these modes of organization often cross, forming interrelated structures. Organizations like schools may include workers and professionals not in the field of education such as nurses. How they are combined or carefully aggregated into a school — or a school system — is of concern. But the early work of Gulick was not limited to small organizations. He started off his professional career at New York City's Bureau of Municipal Research and advanced to President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Committee on Administrative Management.\n\nUnder Coordination, Gulick notes that two methods can be used to achieve coordination of divided labor. The first is by organization, or placing workers under managers who coordinate their efforts. The second is by dominance of an idea, where a clear idea of what needs to be done is developed in each worker, and each worker fits their work to the needs of the whole. Gulick notes that these two ideas are not mutually exclusive, and that most enterprises function best when both are utilized.\n\nGulick notes that any manager will have a finite amount of time and energy, and discusses span of control under coordination. Drawing from the work of Henri Fayol, Gulick notes that the number of subordinates that can be handled under any single manager will depend on factors such as organizational stability and the specialization of the subordinates. Gulick stops short of giving a definite number of subordinates that any one manager can control, but authors such as Sir Ian Hamilton and Lyndall Urwick have settled on numbers between three and six. Span of control was later expanded upon and defended in depth by Lyndall Urwick in his 1956 piece \"The Manager's Span of Control\".\n\nUnder coordination, as well as organization, Gulick emphasizes the theory of unity of command: that each worker should only have one direct superior so as to avoid confusion and inefficiency.\n\nGulick discusses the concept of a holding company which may perform limited coordinating, planning, or budgeting functions. Subsidiary entities may carry out their work with autonomy, but as the holding company allows, based upon their authority and direction.\n\nLuther Gulick, one of the Brownlow Committee authors, states that his statement of work of a chief executive is adapted from the functional analysis elaborated by Henri Fayol in his \"Industrial and General Administration.\" Indeed, Fayol's work includes fourteen principles and five elements of management that lay the foundations of Gulick's POSDCORB.\n\nFayol's fourteen principles of management are as follows:\n\nHenri Fayol's influence is also visibly apparent in Luther Gulick's five elements of management discussed as in his book, which are as follows:\n\nPOSDCORB and its humble beginnings in the Brownlow Committee literature is still heavily referenced in today's public administration and politics. Many public administrators even believe the Brownlow documents initiated \"the Reorganization Act of 1939, a train of measures that the act set in motion can reasonably be attributed to it\".\n\nPOSDCORB management theories that are also responsible for the administrative reorganization that occurred around 1937, which utilizes Gulick's organizing and coordinating steps in the POSDCORB administrative process providing for more concise departments and even room for new agencies within the government making for a more efficient government.\n\nPOSDCORB generally fits into the classical management movement, being classified as an element of social scientific management, which was popular in the late 19th and early 20th century. Gulick's POSDCORB patterns were instrumental in highlighting the theory of span of control, or limits on the number of people one manager could supervise, as well as unity of command to the fields of management and public administration.\n\nAccording to notable Public Administration scholars such as Nicholas Henry, POSDCORB, the principles it represents, and subsequent expansions upon the POSDCORB concept form the height of Public Administration in an era when it was seen as just another aspect of the field of management as a whole.\n\nGulick's work has been heavily cited and expanded upon by scholars and practitioners in the fields of management and public administration since the publication of \"Papers on the Science of Administration\" in 1937.\n\nIn his 1987 piece \"Deja Vu: French Antecedents of American Public Administration,\" French public administrator, Daniel Martin notes that virtually all of the principles in American Public Administration up to 1937 and the coining of the POSDCORB acronym, including the POSDCORB principles, were present in the French literature on the subject by 1859, but that this literature had largely been forgotten by the theorists of that era, thus the \"re-invention\" of these principles in the later French and American literature.\n\nEssentially, \"The highest goals of the American Administrative State are the same today as they were in 1937 and in 1787: Public administration is first and foremost concerned with upholding the democratic values embedded within our constitutional heritage.\" \n\nAs early as 1938, literature began appearing in the field of Public Administration challenging the validity of POSDCORB and the concept that there could even be a rigid set of principles in administration. In 1946 and 1947, prominent Public Administration scholars such as Robert Dahl, Dwight Waldo, and Herbert A. Simon released articles and books criticising POSDCORB and the principles notion. Simon's article \"Proverbs of Administration\" challenges the POSDCORB principles by stating \"For almost every principle one can find an equally plausible and acceptable contradictory principle.\" Among other criticisms, Simon states that the POSDCORB principles are an oversimplification of administration. Simon's criticisms largely center around span of control and unity of command, stating that sometimes it is necessary for a subordinate to receive guidance or directives from more than one source, as well as Gulick's division of labor concepts. Other criticisms of Simon involved that there was a lack of evidence for the POSDCORB. Yet others argue that organizations are full of variety and are challenging to control.\n\nIn his 2016 piece \"Instantiations of POSDCORB,\" practitioner Paul Chalekian suggested empirical evidence for POSDCORB involving the adoption of institutions and element support.\n\n"}
{"id": "12819617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12819617", "title": "Palace of Earthly Tranquility", "text": "Palace of Earthly Tranquility\n\nThe Palace of Earthly Tranquility () is the northernmost of the three main halls of the Inner Court of the Forbidden City in Beijing, China. The other two halls are the Palace of Heavenly Purity and Hall of Union.\n\nThe Palace of Earthly Tranquility is a double-eaved building, nine bays wide and three bays deep. In the Ming dynasty, it was the residence of the Empress. In the Qing dynasty, large portions of the Palace were converted for Shamanist worship by the Manchu rulers. Thus, the front part of the hall featured shrines, icons, prayer mats, and a large kitchen where sacrificial meat was prepared. From the reign of the Yongzheng Emperor onwards, the Empress moved out of the Palace following the Emperor's move out of the Palace of Heavenly Purity. However, two rooms in the Palace of Earthly Harmony were retained for use on the Emperor's wedding night. The wedding ceremony would be held in the main room, and afterwards the Emperor and Empress would retire to one of these rooms.\n"}
{"id": "2421804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2421804", "title": "Quality Standards Illustrated", "text": "Quality Standards Illustrated\n\nThe eighth edition of the Quality Standards (QSI) (published by the Architectural Woodwork Institute) is a major revision in a line of Standards extending back to 1961. \n\nThere are number of changes in the layout of the eighth edition.\n\nThe contents gives a quick look at the scope of fine architectural woodwork. Sections 100 and 200 refer to the raw materials of the trade; which include lumber, wood veneers, overlays like laminates, and the cores to which these products are attached.\nSections 300 through 1400 are product sections, each devoted to the details of materials and workmanship for that wide range of work. Section 1500 is a newly revised factory finishing section. Section 1600 addresses a generic method of specifying institutional cabinetry; and Section 1700 is about installation. The sections are accessed by black thumb tab indicators.\n\nFrom 1961 it was recognized that there were different levels of work required. The original committee chose the word \"grade\" to express those levels: \"Premium Grade\", \"Custom Grade\", and \"Economy Grade\". They are defined explicitly on page 6 of the eighth edition, and in other ways, throughout the book.\nThe raw materials of the trade are not specified using those grade terms. Rather, by selecting a grade of work for the fabricated product, the quality of the materials is specified.\n\nThe selection of materials appropriate for the AWI grade of work, and the workmanship and joinery requirements for each type of architectural woodwork are spelled out in Sections 300 through 1400, the selections and specifications are in sections 1500, \"Factory Finishing\"; 1600, \"Modular Cabinets\"; and 1700, \"Installation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "15360831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15360831", "title": "Risk of mortality", "text": "Risk of mortality\n\nThe risk of mortality (ROM) provides a medical classification to estimate the likelihood of inhospital death for a patient. The ROM classes are minor, moderate, major, and extreme. The ROM class is used for the evaluation of patient mortality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "556981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=556981", "title": "SMART criteria", "text": "SMART criteria\n\nSMART is a mnemonic/acronym, giving criteria to guide in the setting of objectives, for example in project management, employee-performance management and personal development. The letters S and M generally mean specific and measurable. Possibly the most common version has the remaining letters referring to achievable, relevant and time-bound. However, the term's inventor had a slightly different version and the letters have meant different things to different authors, as described below. Additional letters have been added by some authors.\n\nThe first-known use of the term occurs in the November 1981 issue of \"Management Review\" by George T. Doran. The principal advantage of SMART objectives is that they are easier to understand and to know when they have been done. SMART criteria are commonly associated with Peter Drucker's management by objectives concept.\n\nOften the term \"S.M.A.R.T Goals\" and \"S.M.A.R.T Objectives\" will surface. Although the acronym SMART generally stays the same, objectives and goals can differ. Goals are the distinct purpose that is to be anticipated from the assignment or project. Objectives on the other hand are the determined steps that will direct full completion of the project goals. \n\nThe November 1981 issue of \"Management Review\" contained a paper by George T. Doran called \"There's a S.M.A.R.T. way to write management's goals and objectives\". It discussed the importance of objectives and the difficulty of setting them.\nEach letter in SMART refers to a different criterion for judging objectives. Different sources use the letters to refer to different things. Typically accepted criteria are as follows.\nChoosing certain combinations of these labels can cause duplication, such as selecting 'attainable' and 'realistic'. They can also cause significant overlapping as in combining 'appropriate' and 'relevant'. The term 'agreed' is often used in management situations where buy-in from stakeholders is desirable (e.g. appraisal situations.)\n\nWhen creating a \"S.M.A.R.T Objective,\" there is specific criteria one should follow. \n\nSome authors have added additional letters giving additional criteria. Examples are given below.\n\n\nOther mnemonic acronyms also give criteria to guide in the setting of objectives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49086328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49086328", "title": "Screenplay (book)", "text": "Screenplay (book)\n\nScreenplay: The Foundations of Screenwriting is a non-fiction book and filmmaking guide written by Syd Field. First published in 1979, \"Screenplay\" covers the art and craft of screenwriting. Considered a bestseller shortly after its release, to date it has sold millions of copies. It has served as a reference for Judd Apatow, James Cameron, Frank Darabont, Tina Fey and many other professional screenwriters. Now translated into more than a dozen languages, \"Screenplay\" is considered the \"bible\" of the screenwriting craft.\n\n\"Screenplay\" is noted as the first book to identify the \"three-act screenplay model\". At the heart of Field's explanation of how his screenplay model worked was \"the paradigm\".\n\nIn the book, Field outlines the paradigm to which he says most successful screenplays adhere. In Field's view, successful screenplays are made up of three distinct divisions. He calls these \"setup\", \"confrontation\", and \"resolution\", and each of them appear in their own act within a screenplay.\n\nBetween each of these acts, the paradigm states that there is a \"plot point\"—an event that spins the plot into a new direction, and transitions into a new act of the screenplay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4052893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4052893", "title": "Sickness bag", "text": "Sickness bag\n\nA sickness bag (also known as a sick sack, airsick bag, airsickness bag, emesis bag, sick bag, barf bag, vomit bag, disposal bag, waste bag or motion sickness bag) is a small bag commonly provided to passengers on board airplanes and boats to collect and contain vomit in the event of motion sickness. Hovercraft-ferry operators and even train companies have also been known to furnish bags. Pregnant women with morning sickness and travelers who know they are prone to motion sickness will sometimes bring their own bags.\n\nThe plastic-lined airsickness bag was created by inventor Gilmore Schjeldahl for Northwest Orient Airlines in 1949. Previously bags had been made from waxed paper or card. Modern bags are still mainly made from plastic-lined paper, but a significant proportion are now made completely from plastic.\n\nAmong the collectors of aeronautical memorabilia there is a sub-culture of sickness-bag aficionados. The \"Guinness Book of Records\" recognizes Dutchman Niek Vermeulen as the world record holder for the number of different bags (6016 as of 29 January 2010).\n\nIn 2004, Virgin Atlantic issued a limited edition set of half a million bags in collaboration with designer Oz Dean of 'forcefeed:swede'. Oz had conceived and run an online gallery of sick bags since 2000 under the project name \"Design for Chunks\". It challenged designers to illustrate the usually dull medium of the sick bag, as opposed to T-shirts or splash pages which were the standard challenges at the time.\n\nAlthough the project achieved cult status in a short time amongst the design community, Dean felt that it had run its course and closed it down in 2003. With the offer of doing the project for real (from Virgin Atlantic) \"DFC\" was opened up again, in 2004, with the strapline \"This time it's real!\" The printed bags were intended to be on the global fleet of planes for 6 months but only lasted 3, with people walking through the aisles collecting the sets. The project divided opinion and this came as no surprise to Virgin Atlantic which is intentionally the more offbeat airline company in comparison to their traditional rivals, British Airways. The whole set of 20 finalists designs as a framed piece can be found in the Virgin Atlantic Clubhouse at Heathrow, UK or online at the archived website.\n\nVirgin Atlantic released another four bags promoting the \"Star Wars\" movie \"\" shortly after the \"Design for Chunks\" project.\n\nSteven J. Silberberg is also a collector of air sickness bags; his collection, the Air Sickness Bag Virtual Museum, holds 2297 bags.\n\nThe development of larger aircraft and advances in design have reduced the occurrence of air sickness. This has led to bags being given a secondary use as general purpose waterproof waste containers which is often reflected in the labelling of the bag and instructional diagrams. Another common use is that of a photographic mailing envelope (especially Australia). Airlines have also printed bags to serve as card game scoresheets and Continental Airlines once suggested that they be used as doggy bags for airline food. Non-airline aircrew have occasionally used these bags as improvised urinals or fecal collection devices aboard aircraft lacking on-board toilets. A specialized urine collection bag known colloquially as the \"piddle pack\" developed as an improvement from this practice. In 2010, Spirit Airlines began selling advertising space on its air sickness bags.\n\nSome airlines have exhibited a certain sense of humor in designing their airsickness bags. For a short time, for example, Hapag-Lloyd Express (now TUIfly) had bags that had stated \"Thank you for your criticism!\". The defunct ATA Airlines used airsickness bags that had \"Occupied\" on them. Delta Air Lines has \"Feel Better?\" printed on the bag. NIKI Airlines uses sickbags with the legend \"Speibsackerl\" on them; this translates to \"puke bag\".\n\nMany exploitation horror films in the 1970s handed out vomit bags as a promotion gimmick for the more violent and shocking movies.\n\n"}
{"id": "20389054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20389054", "title": "Taking Sides: Clashing Views in Crime and Criminology", "text": "Taking Sides: Clashing Views in Crime and Criminology\n\nClashing Views is a textbook for college level courses in criminal justice. The first edition was published in 1999 and currently has 8 editions. The book is a discussion of nineteen issues that are commonly disputed in the criminal justice system such as the legalization of marijuana and the castration of sex offenders. It provides two articles of opposing opinions on each issue to help the reader see both sides of the issue and reach their own conclusion.\n"}
{"id": "6285314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6285314", "title": "Tametsi", "text": "Tametsi\n\nTametsi (Latin, \"although\") is the legislation of the Catholic Church which was in force from 1563 until Easter 1908 concerning clandestine marriage. It was named, as is customary in Latin Rite ecclesiastical documents, for the first word of the document that contained it, Chapter 1, Session 24 of the Council of Trent. \n\nThis was the document that added the impediment of clandestinity to the marriage law of the church.\nIt was also the decree which ended a long debate about validity of marriage and produced sought after reform. Since the Sacrament of Marriage is administered by the parties to the marriage to each other, and not by clergy it is unique among the Sacraments. Fear of possible change in this doctrine prompted the debate, since prior to the Council of Trent (1545-1563), clandestine marriages had been considered valid. These marriages had resultant problems - questions over legitimacy of children; difficulties over inheritance, and the potential for conflict between those who considered they had a right to a voice in the matter. \nThe outcome of \"Tametsi\" was to establish a juridical form of marriage. To be considered valid, the marriage required the presence of the parish priest or his deputy authorised by him or the ordinary. And the presence of two or three witnesses. Banns were to be read before the marriage was to take place. For the first time, a record of marriage was to be kept.\nA liturgical form for marriage was established. Couples newly married were expected to receive the priestly blessing in the church, having prepared by Confession and Communion. <Van Ommeren,W. \"Tametsi.\" \"New Catholic Encyclopedia' ed., vol 13 2nd ed.,vol 13 gale 2003 ref>\n\nIt was superseded in 1908 by \"Ne Temere\", which stated that a marriage is invalid unless it is contracted before a parish priest in his own parish, or before a bishop in his own diocese , or by a delegate of either. And in the presence of at least two witnesses. Also that the marriage must be registered in the place where the contracting parties were baptised. \n\n"}
{"id": "37690869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37690869", "title": "TheSwizzle.com", "text": "TheSwizzle.com\n\nTheSwizzle was a webmail tool that worked with existing email and enabled consumers to manage email subscriptions, primarily from commercial vendors. It was acquired by Mailstrom of 410 Labs in September 2014, and TheSwizzle.com subsequently shut down.\n\nThe product claimed several features, including cleaning up users' inboxes by helping to unsubscribe from unwanted emails while at the same time, allowing receipt as well as searching among those commercially oriented emails an individual still wants to receive. By packaging these messages into a digest format, users could consolidate their email box.\n\nThe Swizzle was a product of Keep Holdings, a consumer and brand engagement conglomerate of business units including Keep.com, AdKeeper and TheSwizzle.com.\nThe company was founded in March, 2010, by Scott Kurnit, who serves as Chairman and CEO. Kurnit is best known as the founder of now-defunct About.com, which grew to a public market value of $1.7 billion, and was sold to Primedia for $724 million, in 2001. About.com is now owned by IAC, and was shut down in April 2017.\n\nIn 2016, The Swizzle came under harsh criticism from a small evangelical community after a holiday promotional email featured a song parody of Winter Wonderland, altering the words \"Sleigh bells ring, Are you listening\" to \"Sleigh bells ring, are ya Swizzling?\". \n\nThe company under intense media pressure was forced to issue a press release apologizing for its manipulation of the holiday classic.\n\n"}
{"id": "636172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=636172", "title": "The Sibley Guide to Birds", "text": "The Sibley Guide to Birds\n\nThe Sibley Guide to Birds is a reference work and field guide for the birds found in the continental United States and Canada. It is written and illustrated by ornithologist David Allen Sibley. The book provides details on 810 species of birds, with information about identification, life history, vocalizations, and geographic distribution. It contains several paintings of each species, and is critically acclaimed for including images of each bird in flight. Two regional field guides using the same material as \"The Sibley Guide to Birds\" were released in 2003, one for the western half of North American and one for the eastern half.\n\nThe guide was favorably reviewed by \"The New York Times\", \"The Wilson Bulletin\" (now \"The Wilson Journal of Ornithology\"), and the journal \"Western Birds\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7090054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7090054", "title": "United States Coast Guard Cutter", "text": "United States Coast Guard Cutter\n\nUnited States Coast Guard Cutter is the term used by the U.S. Coast Guard for its commissioned vessels. They are or greater in length and have a permanently assigned crew with accommodations aboard. They carry the ship prefix USCGC.\n\nThe Revenue Marine and the Revenue Cutter Service, as it was known variously throughout the late 18th and the 19th centuries, referred to its ships as cutters. The term is English in origin and refers to a specific type of vessel, namely, \"a small, decked ship with one mast and bowsprit, with a gaff mainsail on a boom, a square yard and topsail, and two jibs or a jib and a staysail.\" With general usage, that term came to define any vessel of the United Kingdom's HM Customs and Excise and the term was adopted by the U.S. Treasury Department at the creation of what would become the Revenue Marine. Since that time, no matter what the vessel type, the service has referred to its vessels with permanently assigned crews as cutters.\n\nIn 1790, Congress authorized the Secretary of the Treasury, Alexander Hamilton, to create a maritime service to enforce customs laws (1 Stat. L. 145, 175; 4 August 1790). Alternatively known as the system of cutters, Revenue Service, and Revenue-Marine this service was officially named the Revenue Cutter Service (12 Stat. L., 639) in 1863. This service was placed under the control of the Treasury Department. The first ten cutters were:\n\n\n"}
