{"id": "51942674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51942674", "title": "2016 California Proposition 58", "text": "2016 California Proposition 58\n\nProposition 58 is a California ballot proposition that passed on the November 8, 2016 ballot. Proposition 58 repealed bilingual education restrictions enacted by Proposition 227 in 1998.\n\nProposition 58 passed by a wide margin.\n\nIt preserves the requirement that public schools ensure students obtain an English language proficiency, require school districts to solicit parent/community input in developing language acquisition programs, require instruction to ensure English acquisition as rapidly and effectively as possible, and authorize school districts to establish dual–language immersion programs for both native and non–native English speakers.\n\nAfter the passage of Proposition 227 in 1998, students were required to be taught in an English-only environment, where the student was taught English by a teacher who only speaks English. Proposition 227 also required limited English proficient students who were in separate classes to be put into regular classes, ended bilingual programs, and required students to be taught in an English-only environment. \n\nUnder Proposition 58, the public school systems will have the right to choose the way they see as appropriate for their students to learn English more swiftly. Students will now have the option to be taught in an English-only environment, or a bilingual environment, where a person of the student's native language teaches them English. This also allows English speaking students to learn in another language.\n\nA California Department of Education spokesperson anticipated a shortage of bilingual teachers under Proposition 58. The number of bilingual credentials had fallen after Proposition 227's passage.\n\n"}
{"id": "3950450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3950450", "title": "Alexander George McAdie", "text": "Alexander George McAdie\n\nAlexander George McAdie (August 4, 1863 – November 1, 1943) was an American meteorologist.\n\nWhile in college he joined the \"Army Signal Service\", the predecessor of the U.S. Weather Bureau. He graduated from Harvard University in 1885.\n\nFrom 1903 until 1913 he ran the U.S. Weather Bureau in San Francisco. He was also the vice president of the Sierra Club, starting in 1904, and continuing until 1913. In 1913 he became Professor of meteorology at Harvard, and remained there until 1931. During the same period he also served as the director of the \"Blue Hill Observatory\".\n\nAmong his accomplishments was the invention of a device to prevent frost from harming fruit. He was a pioneer in the use of kites to study conditions at high altitudes. In 1885 at Blue Hill, Boston, he modernized the experiments of Benjamin Franklin by attaching a voltmeter to a kite and measuring the voltage difference between the ground and several hundred feet up. He also made studies of the atmospheric effects of smoke, the connection between the aurora and electricity in the atmosphere, and the dangers posed by lightning. He is the author of a cloud atlas.\n\nHe is also known for testifying about the potential effects of electrocution (based on his experience with lightning) in 1899 at the first trial to decide if the electric chair was cruel and unusual punishment. His testimony was used against the use of the electric chair for the death penalty.\n\nIn addition to his work with the weather bureau, McAdie wrote a detailed account of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and compiled a catalog of earthquakes on the Pacific coast.\n\nHe was married to Mary Randolph Brown McAdie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "626455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=626455", "title": "Alternative fuel", "text": "Alternative fuel\n\nAlternative fuels, known as non-conventional and advanced fuels, are any materials or substances that can be used as fuels, other than conventional fuels like; \"fossil fuels\" (petroleum (oil), coal, and natural gas), as well as nuclear materials such as uranium and thorium, as well as artificial radioisotope fuels that are made in nuclear reactors.\n\nSome well-known alternative fuels include biodiesel, bioalcohol (methanol, ethanol, butanol), refuse-derived fuel, chemically stored electricity (batteries and fuel cells), hydrogen, non-fossil methane, non-fossil natural gas, vegetable oil, propane and other biomass sources.\n\nThe main purpose of fuel is to store energy, which should be in a stable form and can be easily transported to the place of use.\n\nAlmost all fuels are chemical fuels. The user employs this fuel to generate heat or perform mechanical work, such as powering an engine. It may also be used to generate electricity, which is then used for heating, lighting, or other purpose.\n\nBiofuels are also considered a renewable source. Although renewable energy is used mostly to generate electricity, it is often assumed that some form of renewable energy or a percentage is used to create alternative fuels.\nResearch is ongoing into finding more suitable biofuel crops and improving the oil yields of these crops. Using the current yields, vast amounts of land and fresh water would be needed to produce enough oil to completely replace fossil fuel usage.\n\nBiomass in the energy production industry is living and recently dead biological material which can be used as fuel or for industrial production.\nIt has become popular among coal power stations, which switch from coal to biomass in order to convert to renewable energy generation without wasting existing generating plant and infrastructure. Biomass most often refers to plants or plant-based materials that are not used for food or feed, and are specifically called lignocellulosic biomass.[2] As an energy source, biomass can either be used directly via combustion to produce heat, or indirectly after converting it to various forms of biofuel.\n\nAlgae-based biofuels have been promoted in the media as a potential panacea to crude oil-based transportation problems. Algae could yield more than 2000 gallons of fuel per acre per year of production. Algae based fuels are being successfully tested by the U.S. Navy Algae-based plastics show potential to reduce waste and the cost per pound of algae plastic is expected to be cheaper than traditional plastic prices.\n\nBiodiesel is made from animal fats or vegetable oils, renewable resources that come from plants such as jatropha, soybean, sunflowers, corn, olive, peanut, palm, coconut, safflower, canola, sesame, cottonseed, etc. Once these fats or oils are filtered from their hydrocarbons and then combined with alcohol like methanol, biodiesel is brought to life from this chemical reaction. These raw materials can either be mixed with pure diesel to make various proportions, or used alone. Despite one’s mixture preference, biodiesel will release smaller number of pollutants (carbon monoxide particulates and hydrocarbons) than conventional diesel, because biodiesel burns both cleanly and more efficiently. Even with regular diesel’s reduced quantity of sulfur from the ULSD (ultra-low sulfur diesel) invention, biodiesel exceeds those levels because it is sulfur-free.\n\nMethanol and ethanol fuel are primary sources of energy; they are convenient fuels for storing and transporting energy. These alcohols can be used in internal combustion engines as alternative fuels. Butanol has another advantage: it is the only alcohol-based motor fuel that can be transported readily by existing petroleum-product pipeline networks, instead of only by tanker trucks and railroad cars.\n\nAmmonia (NH) can be used as fuel. Benefits of ammonia include no need for oil, zero emissions, low cost, and distributed production reducing transport and related pollution.\n\nCarbon neutral fuel is synthetic fuel—such as methane, gasoline, diesel fuel or jet fuel—produced from renewable or nuclear energy used to hydrogenate waste carbon dioxide recycled from power plant flue exhaust gas or derived from carbonic acid in seawater. Such fuels are potentially carbon neutral because they do not result in a net increase in atmospheric greenhouse gases. To the extent that carbon neutral fuels displace fossil fuels, or if they are produced from waste carbon or seawater carbonic acid, and their combustion is subject to carbon capture at the flue or exhaust pipe, they result in negative carbon dioxide emission and net carbon dioxide removal from the atmosphere, and thus constitute a form of greenhouse gas remediation. Such carbon neutral and negative fuels can be produced by the electrolysis of water to make hydrogen used in the Sabatier reaction to produce methane which may then be stored to be burned later in power plants as synthetic natural gas, transported by pipeline, truck, or tanker ship, or be used in gas to liquids processes such as the Fischer–Tropsch process to make traditional transportation or heating fuels.\n\nCarbon-neutral fuels have been proposed for distributed storage for renewable energy, minimizing problems of wind and solar intermittency, and enabling transmission of wind, water, and solar power through existing natural gas pipelines. Such renewable fuels could alleviate the costs and dependency issues of imported fossil fuels without requiring either electrification of the vehicle fleet or conversion to hydrogen or other fuels, enabling continued compatible and affordable vehicles. Germany has built a 250-kilowatt synthetic methane plant which they are scaling up to 10 megawatts. Audi has constructed a carbon neutral liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant in Werlte, Germany. The plant is intended to produce transportation fuel to offset LNG used in their A3 Sportback g-tron automobiles, and can keep 2,800 metric tons of CO out of the environment per year at its initial capacity. Other commercial developments are taking place in Columbia, South Carolina, Camarillo, California, and Darlington, England.\n\nThe least expensive source of carbon for recycling into fuel is flue-gas emissions from fossil-fuel combustion, where it can be extracted for about US $7.50 per ton. Automobile exhaust gas capture has also been proposed to be economical but would require extensive design changes or retrofitting. Since carbonic acid in seawater is in chemical equilibrium with atmospheric carbon dioxide, extraction of carbon from seawater has been studied. Researchers have estimated that carbon extraction from seawater would cost about $50 per ton. Carbon capture from ambient air is more costly, at between $600 and $1000 per ton and is considered impractical for fuel synthesis or carbon sequestration.\n\nNighttime wind power is considered the most economical form of electrical power with which to synthesize fuel, because the load curve for electricity peaks sharply during the warmest hours of the day, but wind tends to blow slightly more at night than during the day. Therefore, the price of nighttime wind power is often much less expensive than any alternative. Off-peak wind power prices in high wind penetration areas of the U.S. averaged 1.64 cents per kilowatt-hour in 2009, but only 0.71 cents/kWh during the least expensive six hours of the day. Typically, wholesale electricity costs 2 to 5 cents/kWh during the day. Commercial fuel synthesis companies suggest they can produce fuel for less than petroleum fuels when oil costs more than $55 per barrel. The U.S. Navy estimates that shipboard production of jet fuel from nuclear power would cost about $6 per gallon. While that was about twice the petroleum fuel cost in 2010, it is expected to be much less than the market price in less than five years if recent trends continue. Moreover, since the delivery of fuel to a carrier battle group costs about $8 per gallon, shipboard production is already much less expensive. However, U.S. civilian nuclear power is considerably more expensive than wind power. The Navy's estimate that 100 megawatts can produce 41,000 gallons of fuel per day indicates that terrestrial production from wind power would cost less than $1 per gallon.\n\nHydrogen is an emissionless fuel. The byproduct of hydrogen burning is water, although some mono-nitrogen oxides NOx are produced when hydrogen is burned with air.\nAnother fuel is formic acid. The fuel is used by converting it first to hydrogen, and using that in a fuel cell. Formic acid is much more easy to store than hydrogen.\n\nHCNG (or H2CNG) is a mixture of compressed natural gas and 4-9 percent hydrogen by energy.\n\nLiquid nitrogen is another type of emissionless and efficient fuel.\n\nThe air engine is an emission-free piston engine using compressed air as fuel. Unlike hydrogen, compressed air is about one-tenth as expensive as fossil fuel, making it an economically attractive alternative fuel.\n\nPropane is a cleaner burning, high performance fuel derived from multiple sources. It is known by many names including propane, LPG (liquified propane gas), LPA (liquid propane autogas), Autogas and others. Propane is a hydrocarbon fuel and is a member of the natural gas family.\n\nPropane as an automotive fuel shares many of the physical attributes of gasoline while reducing tailpipe emissions and well to wheel emissions overall. Propane is the number one alternative fuel in the world and offers an abundance of supply, liquid storage at low pressure, an excellent safety record and large cost savings when compared to traditional fuels.\n\nPropane delivers an octane rating between 104 and 112 depending on the composition of the butane/propane ratios of the mixture. Propane autogas in a liquid injection format captures the phase change from liquid to gas state within the cylinder of the combustion engine producing an \"intercooler\" effect, reducing the cylinder temperature and increasing air density. The resultant effect allows more advance on the ignition cycle and a more efficient engine combustion.\n\nPropane lacks additives, detergents or other chemical enhancements further reducing the exhaust output from the tailpipe. The cleaner combustion also has fewer particulate emissions, lower NO due to the complete combustion of the gas within the cylinder, higher exhaust temperatures increasing the efficiency of the catalyst and deposits less acid and carbon inside the engine which extends the useful life of the lubricating oil.\n\nPropane autogas is generated at the well alongside other natural gas and oil products. It is also a by-product of the refining processes which further increase the supply of Propane to the market.\n\nPropane is stored and transported in a liquid state at roughly of pressure. Fueling vehicles is similar to gasoline in speed of delivery with modern fueling equipment. Propane filling stations only require a pump to transfer vehicle fuel and does not require expensive and slow compression systems when compared to compressed natural gas which is usually kept at over .\n\nIn a vehicle format, propane autogas can be retrofitted to almost any engine and provide fuel cost savings and lowered emissions while being more efficient as an overall system due to the large, pre-existing propane fueling infrastructure that does not require compressors and the resultant waste of other alternative fuels in well to wheel lifecycles.\n\nCompressed natural gas (CNG) and liquified natural gas (LNG) are two cleaner combusting alternatives to conventional liquid automobile fuels.\n\nCompressed natural gas (CNG) vehicles can use both renewable CNG and non-renewable CNG.\n\nConventional CNG is produced from the many underground natural gas reserves are in widespread production worldwide today. New technologies such as horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing to economically access unconventional gas resources, appear to have increased the supply of natural gas in a fundamental way.\n\nRenewable natural gas or biogas is a methane‐based gas with similar properties to natural gas that can be used as transportation fuel. Present sources of biogas are mainly landfills, sewage, and animal/agri‐waste. Based on the process type, biogas can be divided into the following: biogas produced by anaerobic digestion, landfill gas collected from landfills, treated to remove trace contaminants, and synthetic natural gas (SNG).\n\nAround the world, this gas powers more than 5 million vehicles, and just over 150,000 of these are in the U.S. American usage is growing at a dramatic rate.\n\nBecause natural gas emits little pollutant when combusted, cleaner air quality has been measured in urban localities switching to natural gas vehicles Tailpipe can be reduced by 15–25% compared to gasoline, diesel. The greatest reductions occur in medium and heavy duty, light duty and refuse truck segments.\n\nSimilarities to hydrogen \nNatural gas, like hydrogen, is another fuel that burns cleanly; cleaner than both gasoline and diesel engines. Also, none of the smog-forming contaminates are emitted. Hydrogen and natural gas are both lighter than air and can be mixed together.\n\nNuclear power is any nuclear technology designed to extract usable energy from atomic nuclei via controlled nuclear reactions. The only controlled method now practical uses nuclear fission in a fissile fuel (with a small fraction of the power coming from subsequent radioactive decay). Use of the nuclear reaction nuclear fusion for controlled power generation is not yet practical, but is an active area of research.\n\nNuclear power is usually used by using a nuclear reactor to heat a working fluid such as water, which is then used to create steam pressure, which is converted into mechanical work for the purpose of generating electricity or propulsion in water. Today, more than 15% of the world's electricity comes from nuclear power, and over 150 nuclear-powered naval vessels have been built.\n\nIn theory, electricity from nuclear reactors could also be used for propulsion in space, but this has yet to be demonstrated in a space flight. Some smaller reactors, such as the TOPAZ nuclear reactor, are built to minimize moving parts, and use methods that convert nuclear energy to electricity more directly, making them useful for space missions, but this electricity has historically been used for other purposes. Power from nuclear fission has been used in a number of spacecraft, all of them unmanned. The Soviets up to 1988 orbited 33 nuclear reactors in RORSAT military radar satellites, where electric power generated was used to power a radar unit that located ships on the Earth's oceans. The U.S. also orbited one experimental nuclear reactor in 1965, in the SNAP-10A mission. No nuclear reactor has been sent into space since 1988.\n\nThorium-based nuclear power reactors have also become an area of active research in recent years. It is being backed by many scientists and researchers, and Professor James Hansen, the former Director at NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies has reportedly said, “After studying climate change for over four decades, it’s clear to me that the world is heading for a climate catastrophe unless we develop adequate energy sources to replace fossil fuels. Safer, cleaner and cheaper nuclear power can replace coal and is desperately needed as an essential part of the solution”. Thorium is 3-4 times more abundant within nature than uranium, and its ore, monazite, is commonly found in sands along bodies of water. Thorium has also gained interest because it could be easier to obtain than uranium. While uranium mines are enclosed underground and thus very dangerous for the miners, thorium is taken from open pits. Monazite is present in countries such as Australia, the United States and India, in quantities large enough to power the earth for thousands of years. As an alternative to uranium fuelled nuclear reactors, thorium has been proven to add to proliferation, produces radioactive waste for deep geological repositories like technetium-99 (half-life over 200,000 years), and has a longer fuel cycle.\n\nFor a list of experimental and presently-operating thorium-fueled reactors, see thorium fuel cycle#List of thorium fueled reactors.\n\nIn addition, radioisotopes have been used as alternative fuels, on both land and in space. Their use on land is declining due to the danger of theft of isotope and environmental damage if the unit is opened. The decay of radioisotopes generates both heat and electricity in many space probes, particularly probes to outer planets where sunlight is weak, and low temperatures is a problem. Radiothermal generators (RTGs) which use such radioisotopes as fuels do not sustain a nuclear chain reaction, but rather generate electricity from the decay of a radioisotope which has (in turn) been produced on Earth as a concentrated power source (fuel) using energy from an Earth-based nuclear reactor.\n\n"}
{"id": "52499440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52499440", "title": "Animal grief", "text": "Animal grief\n\nGrief is “a multifaceted response to loss, particularly to the loss of someone or something that has died, to which a bond or affection was formed”. A common emotion amongst humans, grief is also apparent in animals, known as animal grief. In the late 19th century, research started to show grief in chimpanzees and the connection between animal and human grief. However, until recently, grief has never been the focus of research. Marc Bekoff, a scientist, has spent his time researching emotions in animals, including grief. Combined with other research, the following animals have been seen to grieve: wolves, chimpanzees, magpies, elephants, dolphins, otters, geese, sea lions, and many more.\n\nGrief can be caused by many things and one of the things to understand is animal pain and emotions.\n\nBernard E. Rollin says that the ability to experience pain is something we have to feel to be considered moral (Rollin, 2010). It can result from something such as a wound or abuse causing physical pain. Animals can also experience pain mentally, such as experiencing grief as well as sadness due to anxiety. Animal pain can be understood once we understand the nature of a certain animal. For example, when somebody is caring for a dog as a pet the individual understands their actions, their traits and emotions. While taking care of an animal we are then able to understand that specific animal and their way of grieving or their happiness per se.\n\nThe difference in pain from humans and animals is how one is willing to bear pain for a better lifestyle. Rollin mentions an example of extending life. This example states that the owner may think pain will be a small price to pay for the life of their pet. Since an animal cannot express their pain or how much something may hurt these emotions or decisions are hard to conclude. Pain felt can sometimes be unbearable to the point where humans have the decision or thought to choose death over the continuation of that pain.\n\nA question that is asked is if animals have any emotions? Marc Bekoff defines emotion as something that helps behavioral control and management (Bekoff, 2000). It is known that humans have emotions and that it is something fundamental and important in our lives, however it is hard to say if that is true for animals or just some. There are different ways you can tell the emotion of animal: how they’re acting or how they’re looking at someone or something.\n\nThere are different “categories” of emotions known as primary and secondary emotions. Bekoff explains that primary emotions are similar to reflex or something along the lines of fear or fight-or-flight response. Therefore, it is something that animals react to such as loud noises, unknown objects, or odors (Bekoff, 2000). Having primary emotions is crucial because reactions to these are important for an animal's survival. The part of the brain that is responsible for primary emotions is the limbic system (Bekoff, 2000).\n\nSecondary emotions are part of an experience. These emotions are taking part in the central cortex of the brain because of the requirement of different and higher brain centers. With secondary emotions it allows one (in this case the animals that do feel grief) to create the connection between feelings and actions.\n\nIn 1879, Arthur E. Brown studied how a male chimpanzee reacted after the death of his female counterpart. He saw the male chimpanzee display grief and \"a cry which the keeper of the animals assures [Brown] he had never heard before\"). Continuing to the next day, the chimpanzee sulked and barely moved. Brown deciphered that the male chimpanzee was depressed after the female chimpanzee died. However, Brown concluded that any permanent grief is only found in man, as the chimpanzee seemed fine after a couple of days.\n\nWilliam E. Ritter (1925) connects animal and human emotion to provide evidence of human descent from the animal kingdom. He mentions the James-Lange theory, where \"all emotional stages as of joy, grief, fear, anger, jealousy, love, are associated with more or less characteristic bodily manifestation\". Ritter proposes new evidence to the theory, mentioning that no item on the above list is exclusive to humans, and most are common to the animal world. He argues that because the connection between human emotion and animal emotion is so strong, humans have descended from the animal kingdom.\n\nMarc Bekoff is a professor of ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of Colorado-Boulder. He has spent his life studying animals and their emotions, finding that animals grieve quite frequently. Such examples of grieving animals are:\n\nOne of the questions that can be asked aside from does animals grief is how long do they grieve for or if these animals show signs of mourning. Anthropologist Barbra J King mentions how animals might sleep less or change their ways in their daily life styles. These animals might also end up staying close to their companion's corpse for a long time as well (Safina, 2015). Something we know is that emotions in a human can change one day they can be sad and the other happy. Actions are taken days after one of our loved ones die such as time of school, work or any social interaction (Safina, 2015). It is actually the same for animals. An example that can be shown is in chimpanzees.\n\nA case is shown with one names Amos. The day before he died he spent the day in his nest and did not move until a female chimpanzee Daisy went up to him (Safina, 2015). When Amos died, one of the chimpanzees who was more sociable than the rest as well as a “higher rank” than the rest did not want to be with the group for weeks. As shown here it also depends on who passed away on how long an animal can grieve. Though through the time spent mourning many signs can appear of an animals grief and agony of the loss of their companion.\n\nAnother example mentioned is the dog Hachiko from Tokyo. In this case the dog was no grieving due to the death of an animal, but of the loss of its owner. It is known that this dog went to the station where his owner would come home to every day for around ten years.\n\nThough Bekoff is the face of recent research on animal grief, other scientists are starting to look more into it. Some studies have looked at depression in animals, with Paul Willner finding that there are eighteen animal models of depression. Peter J. Fashing & Nga Nguyen (2012) found that a group of chimpanzees groomed and caressed a grieving, older chimpanzee. They also found that \"the dying female [elephant] was approached by the matriarch of another group who repeatedly attempted to bring her to her feet using her tusks\". Even otters grieve, where members of a group caught fish for months and brought them to the matriarch who had failing vision and poor mobility.\n\nThough grief in animals may seem questionable, evidence shows it is abundant. From chimpanzees to otters to sea lions, animals grieve just like humans do. Researchers like Bekoff, Fashing, Nguyen, and others, are studying every day to help better understand how and why animals grieve. With increased knowledge, humans can have better relationships with animals. For example, zoo caretakers can study chimpanzee grief habits and better notice when a chimpanzee mother is mourning. The caretakers can then help the mother cope and live a healthy and successful life. Research shows grief in animals, and understanding that can help humans form closer, healthier connections with them.\n\n"}
{"id": "2074838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2074838", "title": "Association for Behavior Analysis International", "text": "Association for Behavior Analysis International\n\nThe Association for Behavior Analysis International (ABAI) is a nonprofit organization dedicated to contributing to the well being of society by developing, enhancing, and supporting the growth of the science of behavior analysis through research, education, and practice. ABAI has over 7,000 members. It is committed to promoting the experimental, theoretical, and applied analysis of behavior.\n\nThe Association for Behavior Analysis International (ABAI) was founded in 1974 as the MidWestern Association for Behavior Analysis (MABA) to serve as an interdisciplinary group of professionals, paraprofessionals, and students. MABA was organized to establish a separate identity for the behavior analysis group of the larger psychological community and to provide a forum for the discussion of issues and the dissemination of information pertinent to the interests of its membership. The first annual conference was a response by a group of behavior analysts who were having problems presenting their work at psychology conferences and other related events. Some of the members included Sidney Bijou, James Dinsmoor, Bill Hopkins, and Roger Ulrich. The first headquarters were located on the campus of Western Michigan University (WMU) in Kalamazoo, Michigan. The association changed its name to the Association for Behavior Analysis in 1979. In 2002, the headquarters were moved off WMU's campus. In 2008, the association relocated to nearby Portage, Michigan (where it is today), and added \"International\" to its name. Today ABAI has more than 7,000 active members worldwide. One can obtain an ABAI membership if they want to further education, practice, and research goals in behavior analysis.\n\nABAI offers different membership levels. A full membership is available for those who have a master's degree in experiential or applied behavior analysis or have contributed to the field of behavior analysis. An affiliate membership is feasible for those with undergraduate degrees, have an interest in behavior analysis, and do not meet the criteria for a full membership. A student membership is offered to anyone who is a full-time undergraduate or graduate student, resident, or intern.\n\nABAI is the leading advocate in the United States for advances in behavior analysis and behavioral psychology in applied settings. The association provides support to the Society for the Advancement of Behavior Analysis (SABA), a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that grants funding for continuing research. ABAI is a member of the Federation of Behavioral, Psychological, and Cognitive Sciences (FABBS)—a group of scientific organizations that are interested in advancing science in areas of the brain, mind, and behavior.\n\nABAI organizes an annual convention dedicated to the advancements in the science of behavior analysis. More than 5,100 behavior analysts come to participate in workshops, poster sessions, “round-table” discussions, symposia, and listen to speakers. In 2017, ABAI will be hosting their 43rd Annual Convention in Denver, Colorado. Past host cities for the convention have included Chicago, San Antonio, Seattle, and other. Every two years, ABAI hosts an international conference; the last one took place in 2017 in Paris, France. The ABAI international conference has also been held in Japan, Spain, China, Australia, as well as many other places. The association also holds an annual autism conference; the 11th Annual Autism Conference will take place in San Juan, Puerto Rico, in January 2017. Additionally, ABAI has hosted many single-track conferences on topics of special interest to behavior analysts, such as theory and philosophy, climate change, behavioral economics, and education.\n\nThrough the sister organization of SABA, several categories of awards are given to individuals, organizations, and ABA research during the ABAI annual convention:\n\n\nThe Association of Applied Behavior Analysis International publishes four journals about behavior analysis various subjects of behavior analysis:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7512482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7512482", "title": "Attribute-value system", "text": "Attribute-value system\n\nAn attribute-value system is a basic knowledge representation framework comprising a table with columns designating \"attributes\" (also known as \"properties\", \"predicates,\" \"features,\" \"dimensions,\" \"characteristics\", \"fields\", \"headers\" or \"independent variables\" depending on the context) and \"rows\" designating \"objects\" (also known as \"entities,\" \"instances,\" \"exemplars,\" \"elements\", \"records\" or \"dependent variables\"). Each table cell therefore designates the value (also known as \"state\") of a particular attribute of a particular object.\n\nBelow is a sample attribute-value system. It represents 10 objects (rows) and five features (columns). In this example, the table contains only integer values. In general, an attribute-value system may contain any kind of data, numeric or otherwise. An attribute-value system is distinguished from a simple \"feature list\" representation in that each feature in an attribute-value system may possess a range of values (e.g., feature formula_1 below, which has domain of {0,1,2}), rather than simply being \"present\" or \"absent\" .\n\nAttribute-value systems are pervasive throughout many different literatures, and have been discussed under many different names:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43569192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43569192", "title": "Aversion to happiness", "text": "Aversion to happiness\n\nAversion to happiness, also called cherophobia or fear of happiness, is an attitude towards happiness in which individuals may deliberately avoid experiences that invoke positive emotions or happiness.\n\nOne of several reasons why cherophobia may develop is the belief that when one becomes happy, a negative event will soon occur that will taint that happiness, as if punishing that individual for satisfaction. This belief is thought to be more prevalent in Eastern cultures. In Western cultures, such as American culture, \"it is almost taken for granted that happiness is one of the most important values guiding people's lives\". Western cultures are more driven by an urge to maximize happiness and to minimize sadness. Failing to appear happy often gives cause for concern. The value placed on happiness echoes through Western positive psychology and through research on subjective well-being.. Fear of happiness is associated with fragility of happiness beliefs, suggesting that one of the causes of aversion to happiness may be the belief that happiness is unstable and fragile. Research shows that fear of happiness is associated with avoidant and anxious attachment styles.\n\nThere are four major reasons why cherophobes avoid happiness: \"believing that being happy will provoke bad things to happen; that happiness will make you a worse person; that expressing happiness is bad for you and others; and that pursuing happiness is bad for you and others\". For example, \"some people—in Western and Eastern cultures—are wary of happiness because they believe that bad things, such as unhappiness, suffering, and death, tend to happen to happy people.\"\n\nThese findings \"call into question the notion that happiness is the ultimate goal, a belief echoed in any number of articles and self-help publications about whether certain choices are likely to make you happy\". Also, \"in cultures that believe worldly happiness to be associated with sin, shallowness, and moral decline will actually feel less satisfied when their lives are (by other standards) going well\", so measures of personal happiness cannot simply be considered a yardstick for satisfaction with one's life, and attitudes such as aversion to happiness have important implications for measuring happiness across cultures and ranking nations on happiness scores.\n"}
{"id": "1196144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1196144", "title": "Avidyamaya and vidyamaya", "text": "Avidyamaya and vidyamaya\n\nAvidyamaya and Vidyamaya are concepts created by the Hindu sage Ramakrishna based on his mystical realizations. Literally, \"vidyamaya\" means \"wisdom-illusion\", and \"avidyamaya\" means \"un-wisdom-illusion\".\n\nRamakrishna implied that all things, good and bad, were \"maya\" (illusion). According to him, both love and hate, materialism and spirituality, egotism and generosity exist only due to our limited perception of Reality. However, he divided them into illusions that further bind us (\"avidyamaya\") and illusions that take us further onto the dispelling of maya (\"vidyamaya\").\n\nAccording to his Hindu school of thought, as one cannot trust one's eyes before a trained magician, also the human five senses draw and drag us further into illusions and false conclusions. However, the embracing and realization of some concepts that are not sensual (i.e., of the senses), such as love, generosity, spirituality, all of them \"vidyamaya\", take us further away from sticking to what we see, touch, smell, hear, taste.\n\nQuote: \"Vidyamaya may be likened to the last few steps before the roof. Next is the roof, the realization of God.\" \n"}
{"id": "15963403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15963403", "title": "Aśuddhatā", "text": "Aśuddhatā\n\n\"Aśuddhatā\", a Telugu term most often used by Hindus in India, means ritual impurity or uncleanness. Hindus believe in a duality of purity and impurity. They think that people are both pure and impure and they understand that a person cannot be entirely one or the other. While impurity has a negative connotation, “impurities are thought to be part of everyday life and all humans alternate between relative purity (\"suddhatā\") and relative impurity (\"aśuddhatā\"). It is therefore best that these impurities be avoided as much as possible.\n\n\"Chõyāchũyi\" is a form of \"aśuddhatā\". It can be defined as “mutual touching”, which is essentially any form of contact between two people whether it be intentional or unintentional. In addition to being defined as contact between two people, \"chõyāchũyi\" also occurs when “two people touch an object at the same time…or when two people sit on the same bench or mat at the same time”. While seemingly unavoidable, Hindus have found a way around becoming impure through “mutual touching”—they simply avoid contact. If a person needs something that another person has in their possession, instead of handing the object directly to the person in need, they “place an object on the ground for the other to pick up” or they drop it into the other’s hand. \n\n\"Eto\" is another form of aśuddhatā. It is described as “a term that refers specifically to food items that have become very highly permeated with the substance of those who have cooked, handled, and eaten them”. It is acceptable for close family members to eat the other’s \"eto\" food, however, there are some \"eto\" relationships that are one-sided. For example, a servant can eat an employer’s \"eto\" food, but the employer cannot eat the servant’s \"eto\" food. This is because an employer is of higher status than a servant and does not want to be polluted by the servant's lower status.\n"}
{"id": "39400257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39400257", "title": "Barometer (sculpture)", "text": "Barometer (sculpture)\n\nBarometer is a 2013 sculpture by Devin Laurence Field, to be installed at the newly constructed Hillsboro Ballpark in Oregon, United States. The stainless steel sculpture, commissioned by the City of Hillsboro, stands tall at the stadium's entry plaza. Installation of the work began on June 10, 2013.\n\n\"Barometer\", commissioned by the City of Hillsboro for the newly constructed Hillsboro Ballpark, was designed by Northwest sculpture Devin Laurence Field. Field's design was chosen from twenty qualified candidates by an artist, design team, the Hillsboro Arts & Culture Council, and the Parks and Recreation Department. The stainless steel sculpture stands tall at the stadium's entry plaza. According to Fields, \"the piece takes the overall triangular form of the baseball diamond held aloft by columns and illuminated with color changing, sound activated LED lights. The laser-cut skin of the diamond form is adorned with intricate patterns of baseball bats and balls [and other sports equipment]. Around the sculpture are various 'instruments' people can play, a giant horn, a rattle roller, drum sets and chimes that together form a symphony of sounds. When no one is at the park there is no colored light, when there is noise it lights up — the louder the noise, the brighter the light. The art is a veritable Barometer of excitement for the ballpark.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21358361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21358361", "title": "Chocolataire", "text": "Chocolataire\n\nA chocolataire is a type of social gathering which ranges from large events (such as fund raising and invitation only) to smaller functions (similar in structure to informal tea parties), in which all food and drink are composed of or contain some form of chocolate. Considered obsolete by some, this entertainment was at its peak popularity around the turn of the 20th century (the process for making milk chocolate having been brought to market in 1875), and was seen as a novel alternative to the other forms of social gathering at the time.\n\nThe menu at a chocolataire may include any variety of chocolate-based dishes: cakes, wafers, bonbons, candy, and pastry being a few examples thereof. These dishes can also be seasonal. For instance, featuring hot chocolate as the drink of choice in the colder months, and chocolate lemonade in the warmer ones; with chocolate fondue and chocolate ice cream being the seasonal food choices for winter and summer, respectively.\n\nAs the chocolataire grew in popularity, the ceremony itself became more chocolate-themed—the menu cards, programs, decorations, and even the costumes of the waiters were of chocolate color; chocolate cups and saucers were sometimes sold with the chocolate that was served in them, or given as a souvenir for those who purchased chocolate.\nThe chocolataire saw use in every social gathering imaginable—one was even thrown as part of a fund raising function for a kindergarten in Indiana—and it was not uncommon, after all guests have been served, to hold an auction of remaining candy, loaves of cake, and boxes of chocolate left over from preparation of the dishes.\n\nThe modern analog to the traditional chocolataire is found in some bridesmaid and bachelorette parties (where traditional chocolate foods and candies like truffles and cake are joined by newer recipes like chocolate beer and martinis), and restaurants like \"Death by Chocolate\" in New Zealand and Canada featuring all-chocolate menus.\n"}
{"id": "3097058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3097058", "title": "Croatian Interdisciplinary Society", "text": "Croatian Interdisciplinary Society\n\nCroatian Interdisciplinary Society (, abbrev. \"HID\") is a non-governmental organization operating in Croatia. It acts to promote interdisciplinary education and research, primarily but not exclusively in the domain of complex systems. They are a member society of the International Federation for Systems Research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2508302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2508302", "title": "Data structure diagram", "text": "Data structure diagram\n\nData structure diagram (DSD) is a diagram of the conceptual data model which documents the entities and their relationships, as well as the constraints that connect to them.\n\nThe basic graphic notation elements of DSDs are boxes which represent entities.The arrow symbol represents relationships. Data structure diagrams are most useful for documenting complex data entities.\n\nData Structure Diagram is a diagram type that is used to depict the structure of data elements in the data dictionary. The data structure diagram is a graphical alternative to the composition specifications within such data dictionary entries.\n\nThe data structure diagrams is a predecessor of the entity-relationship model (E-R model). In DSDs, attributes are specified inside the entity boxes rather than outside of them, while relationships are drawn as boxes composed of attributes which specify the constraints that bind entities together. DSDs differ from the E-R model in that the E-R model focuses on the relationships between different entities, whereas DSDs focus on the relationships of the elements within an entity.\n\nThere are several styles for representing data structure diagrams, with the notable difference in the manner of defining cardinality. The choices are between arrow heads, inverted arrow heads (crow's feet), or numerical representation of the cardinality.\n\nA Bachman diagram is a certain type of data structure diagram, and is used to design the data with a network or relational \"logical\" model, separating the data model from the way the data is stored in the system. The model is named after database pioneer Charles Bachman, and mostly used in computer software design.\n\nIn a relational model, a relation is the cohesion of attributes that are fully and not of every key in that relation. The coupling between the relations is based on accordant attributes. For every relation, a rectangle has to be drawn and every coupling is illustrated by a line that connects the relations. On the edge of each line, arrows indicate the cardinality. We have 1-to-n, 1-to-1 and n-to-n. The latter has to be avoided and must be replaced by two (or more) 1-to-n couplings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16719424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16719424", "title": "Enhanced entity–relationship model", "text": "Enhanced entity–relationship model\n\nThe enhanced entity–relationship (EER) model (or extended entity–relationship model) in computer science is a high-level or conceptual data model incorporating extensions to the original entity–relationship (ER) model, used in the design of databases.\n\nIt was developed to reflect more precisely the properties and constraints that are found in more complex databases, such as in engineering design and manufacturing (CAD/CAM), telecommunications, complex software systems and geographic information systems (GIS).\n\nThe EER model includes all of the concepts introduced by the ER model. Additionally it includes the concepts of a subclass and superclass (Is-a), along with the concepts of specialization and generalization. Furthermore, it introduces the concept of a union type or category, which is used to represent a collection of objects that is the union of objects of different entity types. EER model also includes EER diagrams that are conceptual models that accurately represent the requirements of complex databases.\n\nEntity type Y is a subtype (subclass) of an entity type X if and only if every Y is necessarily an X. A subclass entity inherits all attributes and relationships of its superclass entity. This property is called the attribute and relationship inheritance. A subclass entity may have its own specific attributes and relationships (together with all the attributes and relationships it inherits from the superclass). A common superclass example is a Vehicle superclass along with the subclasses of Car and Truck. There are a number of common attributes between a car and a truck, which would be part of the superclass, while the attributes specific to a car or a truck (such as max payload, truck type...) would make up two subclasses.\n\n\n\nTextbooks discussing EER and implementation using purely relational databases:\n\nBooklet discussing EER and implementation using object-oriented and object-relational databases:\n\nTextbook discussing implementation in relational and object-relational databases:\n\nShorter survey articles:\n\n"}
{"id": "1881722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1881722", "title": "External memory algorithm", "text": "External memory algorithm\n\nIn computing, external memory algorithms or out-of-core algorithms are algorithms that are designed to process data that is too large to fit into a computer's main memory at one time. Such algorithms must be optimized to efficiently fetch and access data stored in slow bulk memory (auxiliary memory) such as hard drives or tape drives, or when memory is on a computer network. External memory algorithms are analyzed in the external memory model.\n\nExternal memory algorithms are analyzed in an idealized model of computation called the external memory model (or I/O model, or disk access model). The external memory model is an abstract machine similar to the RAM machine model, but with a cache in addition to main memory. The model captures the fact that read and write operations are much faster in a cache than in main memory, and that reads long contiguous blocks is faster than reading randomly using a disk read-and-write head. The running time of an algorithm in the external memory model is defined by the number of reads and writes to memory required. The model was introduced by Alok Aggarwal and Jeffrey Vitter in 1988. The external memory model is related to the cache-oblivious model, but algorithms in the external memory model may know both the block size and the cache size. For this reason, the model is sometimes referred to as the cache-aware model.\n\nThe model consists of a processor with an internal memory or cache of size , connected to an unbounded external memory. Both the internal and external memory are divided into blocks of size . One input/output or memory transfer operation consists of moving a block of contiguous elements from external to internal memory, and the running time of an algorithm is determined by the number of these input/output operations.\n\nAlgorithms in the external memory model take advantage of the fact that retrieving one object from external memory retrieves an entire block of size formula_1. This property is sometimes referred to as locality. \n\nSearching for an element among formula_2 objects is possible in the external memory model is possible using a B-tree with branching factor formula_1. Using a B-tree, searching, insertion, and deletion can be achieved in formula_4 time (in Big O notation). Information theoretically, this is the minimum running time possible for these operations, so using a B-tree is asymptotically optimal.\n\nExternal sorting is sorting in an external memory setting. External sorting can be done via distribution sort, which is similar to quicksort, or via a formula_5-way merge sort. Both variants achieve the asymptotically optimal runtime of formula_6 to sort objects. This bound also applies to the Fast Fourier Transform in the external memory model.\n\nThe permutation problem is to rearrange formula_2 elements into a specific permutation. This can either be done either by sorting, which requires the above sorting runtime, or inserting each element in order and ignoring the benefit of locality. Thus, permutation can be done in formula_8 time.\n\nThe external memory model captures the memory hierarchy, which is not modeled in other common models used in analyzing data structures, such as the random access machine, and is useful for proving lower bounds for data structures. The model is also useful for analyzing algorithms that work on datasets too big to fit in internal memory.\n\nA typical example is geographic information systems, especially digital elevation models, where the full data set easily exceeds several gigabytes or even terabytes of data.\n\nThis methodology extends beyond general purpose CPUs and also includes GPU computing as well as classical digital signal processing. In general-purpose computing on graphics processing units (GPGPU), powerful graphics cards (GPUs) with little memory (compared with the more familiar system memory, which is most often referred to simply as RAM) are utilized with relatively slow CPU to GPU memory transfer (when compared with computation bandwidth).\n\n"}
{"id": "9200430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9200430", "title": "Feldman–Mahalanobis model", "text": "Feldman–Mahalanobis model\n\nThe Feldman–Mahalanobis model is a Neo-Marxian model of economic development, created independently by Soviet economist Grigory Feldman in 1928, and Indian statistician Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis in 1953. Mahalanobis became essentially the key economist of India's Second Five Year Plan, becoming subject to much of India's most dramatic economic debates.\n\nThe essence of the model is a shift in the pattern of industrial investment towards building up a domestic consumption goods sector. Thus the strategy suggests in order to reach a high standard in consumption, investment in building a capacity in the production of capital goods is firstly needed. A high enough capacity in the capital goods sector in the long-run expands the capacity in the production of consumer goods. The distinction between the two different types of goods was a clearer formulation of Marx’s ideas in \"Das Kapital\", and also helped people to better understand the extent of the trade off between the levels of immediate and future consumption. These ideas were however first introduced in 1928 by Feldman, an economist working for the GOSPLAN planning commission; presenting theoretical arguments of a two-department scheme of growth. There is no evidence that Mahalanobis knew of Feldman’s approach, being kept behind the borders of the USSR.\n\nThe model was created as an analytical framework for India’s Second Five Year Plan in 1955 by appointment of Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, as India felt there was a need to introduce a formal plan model after the First Five Year Plan (1951–1956). The First Five Year Plan stressed investment for capital accumulation in the spirit of the one-sector Harrod–Domar model. It argued that production required capital and that capital can be accumulated through investment; the faster one accumulates, the higher the growth rate will be. The most fundamental criticisms came from Mahalanobis, who himself was working with a variant of it in 1951 and 1952. The criticisms were mostly around the model’s inability to cope with the real constraints of the economy; it’s ignoring of the fundamental choice problems of planning over time; and the lack of connection between the model and the actual selection of projects for governmental expenditure. Subsequently Mahalanobis introduced his celebrated two-sector model, which he later expanded into a four-sector version.\n\nThe assumptions under which the Mahalanobis model holds true are as follow:\n\n\nThe full capacity output equation is as follows:\n\nformula_1\n\nIn the model the growth rate is given by both the share of investment in the capital goods sector, formula_2, and the share of investment in the consumer goods sector, formula_3. If we choose to increase the value of formula_2 to be larger than formula_3, this will initially result in a slower growth in the short-run, but in the long run will exceed the former growth rate choice with a higher growth rate and an ultimately higher level of consumption. In other words, if this method is used, only in the long run will investment into the capital goods produce consumer goods, resulting in no short run gains.\n\nOne of the most common criticisms of the model is that Mahalanobis pays hardly any attention to the savings constraint, which he assumes comes from the industrial sector. Developing countries however do not have this tendency, as the first stages of saving usually come from the agricultural sector. He also does not mention taxation, an important potential source of capital.\nA more serious criticism is the limitation of the assumptions under which this model holds, an example being the limitation of foreign trade. This cannot be justifiable to developing countries today. Also another criticism is that a country to use this model would have to be large enough to contain all the raw resources needed to be sustainable, so therefore this would not apply to smaller countries.\n\nEssentially the model was put into practice in 1956 as the theoretical pathway of India's Second Five Year Plan. However, after two years the first problems started to emerge. Problems such as unexpected and unavoidable costs contributed to increased money supply and growing inflation. The biggest problem was the fall in the foreign exchange reserve due to liberalised import policy and international tension, leading to modifications in the Second Plan in 1958. It was finally abandoned and replaced by the Third Five Year Plan in 1961.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5747519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5747519", "title": "Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada", "text": "Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada\n\n\"For the French agency, see Tracfin.\"\n\nFinancial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada (FINTRAC) gathers, analyzes, assesses, and discloses financial intelligence. Originally created in July 2000 to counter suspected money laundering, FINTRAC's mandate was expanded in December 2001 to provide the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) with information on terrorist financing that threaten the security of Canada.\n\nFINTRAC was established under the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) Act, which was amended in December, 2001 to become the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act (PCMLTFA). FINTRAC's mandate was further amended in 2006 under Bill C-25 to enhance the client identification, record-keeping and reporting measures, established a registration regime for money services businesses and foreign exchange dealers, and created new offences for not registering.\n\nThe Director of FINTRAC reports to the Minister of Finance.\n\nFINTRAC receives information from regulated entities on:\n\n\nIn 2009, FINTRAC estimated that the amount of money laundered on an annual basis is somewhere between $5 and $15 billion.\n\nSuspicious transactions are financial transactions that there are reasonable grounds to suspect are related to the commission of a money laundering offence. Since June 12, 2002, suspicious transactions also include financial transactions that there are reasonable grounds to suspect are related to the commission of a terrorist activity financing offence. Suspicious transactions must be reported by financial entities (banks and financial dealers), money services businesses, life insurance companies and agents, certain government agencies that take deposits (such as Canada Post), accountants or accounting firms, real estate agents and brokers, and casinos.\n\nFINTRAC publishes Annual results, Quarterly updates, performance reports, and notices.\n\nSince June 2002, FINTRAC is a member of the Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units.\n\nThe Director is appointed by the Governor-in-Council for a term of not more than five years during the pleasure of the Governor General and on the expiry of a first or subsequent term of office but no person shall hold office as Director for terms of more than ten years in the aggregate.\n\n\nDepending on reporting entities activities the following reports are to be filed with FINTRAC.\n\n\nFINTRAC can also receive the following information.\n\n\nIn 2009, the Privacy Commissioner of Canada reported that FINTRAC was receiving and retaining personal information beyond its remit, in breach of the Privacy Act, and that this \"presents an unquestionable risk to privacy by making available for use or disclosure personal information which should never have been obtained.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "38231808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38231808", "title": "Finite lattice representation problem", "text": "Finite lattice representation problem\n\nIn mathematics, the finite lattice representation problem, or finite congruence lattice problem, asks whether every finite lattice is isomorphic to the congruence lattice of some finite algebra.\n\nA lattice is called algebraic if it is complete and compactly generated. In 1963, Grätzer and Schmidt proved that every algebraic lattice is isomorphic to the congruence lattice of some algebra. Thus there is essentially no restriction on the shape of a congruence lattice of an algebra. The finite lattice representation problem asks whether the same is true for finite lattices and finite algebras. That is, does every finite lattice occur as the congruence lattice of a \"finite\" algebra?\n\nIn 1980, Pálfy and Pudlák proved that this problem is equivalent to the problem of deciding whether every finite lattice occurs as an interval in the subgroup lattice of a finite group. For an overview of the group theoretic approach to the problem, see Pálfy (1993) and Pálfy (2001).\n\nThis problem should not be confused with the congruence lattice problem.\n\nThis is among the oldest unsolved problems in universal algebra. Until it is answered, the theory of finite algebras is incomplete since, given a finite algebra, it is unknown whether there are, \"a priori\", any restrictions on the shape of its congruence lattice.\n\n"}
{"id": "2587391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2587391", "title": "Freedom Ride (Australia)", "text": "Freedom Ride (Australia)\n\nThe Freedom Ride of 1965 was a significant event in the history of civil rights for Indigenous Australians.\n\nInspired by the Freedom Riders of the American Civil Rights Movement, students from the University of Sydney formed a group called the Student Action for Aborigines, led by Charles Perkins (the first Indigenous Australian to graduate tertiary education) among others, and travelled into New South Wales country towns on what some of them considered a fact-finding mission. What they encountered was \"de facto\" segregation; the students protested, picketed, and faced violence, raising the issue of Indigenous rights. They commonly stood protesting for hours at segregated areas such as pools, parks and pubs which raised a mixed reception in the country towns. Australia overwhelmingly passed a 1967 referendum removing discriminatory sections from the Australian Constitution and enabling the federal government to take direct action in Aboriginal affairs.\n\nAt the time of the Freedom Ride in 1965, some Aboriginal People of Australia were counted separately in the census and their rights as citizens were regularly ignored. In 1964 a University of Sydney protest against racial segregation in the United States had brought comments from members of the public urging students to look to their own backyard if they wanted to draw attention to racial discrimination.\n\nThe original Freedom Riders were: Charles Perkins, Gary Williams, Aidan Foy, Alan Outhred, Alex Mills, Ann Curthoys, Barry Corr, Beth Hansen, Bob Gallagher, Brian Aarons, Chris Page, Colin Bradford, Darce Cassidy, David Pepper, Derek Molloy, Hall Greenland, Helen Gray, Jim Spigelman, John Butterworth, John Gowdie, John Powles, Judith Rich, Louise Higham, Machteld Hali, Norm Mackay, Paddy Dawson, Pat Healy, Ray Leppik, Rick Collins, Robyn Iredale, Sue Johnston, Sue Reeves, Warwick Richards and Wendy Golding.\n\nMoree was the site of a violent conflict during the Freedom Ride. After a protest at Walgett, an unidentified driver rammed the bus forcing it off the road. Because cadet reporter Bruce Maxwell had come along, the incident made headlines in the \"Sydney Morning Herald\", attracting the attention of international media. Some reports compared the treatment of Aboriginal Australians to the racism and segregation in the Deep South of the United States.\n\nThe first two towns they went to were Wellington and Gulargambone. Protests were not conducted there. Instead the locals were asked questions which affirmed perceptions of how bad discrimination against Indigenous Australians was in rural areas. Other towns that were visited include Lismore, Bowraville Dubbo and Kempsey.\n\nIn 2005 another ride travelled through New South Wales. The aim was to determine how much had changed in 40 years and foster debate on reconciliation. Although the 2005 event focussed on reconciliation, experiences of discrimination were reported and the poor housing conditions for some Aboriginal People were noted. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs Andrew Refshauge was presented with the findings of the 2005 ride which visited more than 13 communities.\n\nTo mark the 50th anniversary of the Freedom Ride, two coaches re-ran the route with several of the original participants and a group of present-day University of Sydney students. This was featured in an episode of the SBS programme \"Living Black\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5641551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5641551", "title": "Front of Store Recycling", "text": "Front of Store Recycling\n\nFront of Store Recycling is a project exploring the viability of different front of store recycling (FOSR) and reverse vending machines in England. It was funded by WRAP.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46934541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46934541", "title": "Inserter category", "text": "Inserter category\n\nIn category theory, a branch of mathematics, the inserter category is a variation of the comma category where the two functors are required to have the same domain category.\n\nIf \"C\" and \"D\" are two categories and \"F\" and \"G\" are two functors from \"C\" to \"D\", the inserter category \"Ins\"(\"F\",\"G\") is the category whose objects are pairs (\"X\",\"f\") where \"X\" is an object of \"C\" and \"f\" is a morphism in \"D\" from \"F\"(\"X\") to \"G\"(\"X\") and whose morphisms from (\"X\",\"f\") to (\"Y\",\"g\") are morphisms \"h\" in \"C\" from \"X\" to \"Y\" such that formula_1.\n\nIf \"C\" and \"D\" are locally presentable, \"F\" and \"G\" are functors from \"C\" to \"D\", and either \"F\" is cocontinuous or \"G\" is continuous; then the inserter category \"Ins\"(\"F\",\"G\") is also locally presentable.\n"}
{"id": "34963497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34963497", "title": "Insignificance", "text": "Insignificance\n\nPeople may face feelings of insignificance due to a number of causes, including having low self-esteem, being depressed, living in a huge, impersonal city, comparing themselves to wealthy celebrity success stories, working in a huge bureaucracy, or being in awe of a natural wonder.\n\nA person's \"...sense of personal insignificance comes from two primary experiences: (a) the developmental experience with its increasing awareness of separation and loss, transience, and the sense of lost felt perfectibility; and (b) the increasing cognitive awareness of the immutable laws of biology and the limitations of the self and others in which idealization gives way to painful reality.\" To deal with feelings of insignificance, \"...each individual seeks narcissistic reparation through the elaboration of a personal narrative or myth, a story, which gives one's life a feeling of personal significance, meaning, and purpose.\" These \"...myths provide the individual with a personal sense of identity, and they confirm and affirm memberships in a group or community, and provide guidelines and an idealized set of behaviors..., [and] endorse an explanation for the mysterious universe.\"\n\nIn modern society, people living in crowded, anonymous major cities may face feelings of insignificance. George Simmel's work has addressed the issue of how the \"dissociation typical of modern city life, the freeing of the person from traditional social ties as from each other\" can lead to a \"loss or diminution of individuality.\" Moreover, when a person feels like \"...just another face in the crowd, an object of indifference to strangers\", it can \"lead to feelings of insignificance...\" \n\nIndividuals working in large, bureaucratic organizations who do not have \"concrete evidence of success\" may have \"feelings of insignificance, disillusionment, and helplessness, which are the hallmarks of burnout. Some people in bureaucratic jobs who lack meaningful tasks, and who feel that institutional mechanisms or obstacles prevent them from receiving official recognition for their efforts, may also face boreout. \n\nPeople facing an acute depression constantly have \"[g]uiltiness and insignificance feelings\". People facing issues of inferiority, due to the subjective, global, and judgmental self-appraisal that they are deficient may also have feelings of insignificance.\n\nIn the book \"The Fear of Insignificance\", psychologist Carlo Strenger \"...diagnoses the wide-spread fear of the global educated class of leading insignificant lives.\" Strenger warns \"...that the global celebrity culture is adding fuel to the 'fear of insignificance' by undermining one’s self-image and sense of self-worth.\" He noted that \"...over recent years people around the world have been suffering from an increasing fear of their own 'insignificance'.\" He argues that the \"impact of the global infotainment network on the individual is to blame,\" because it has led to the creation of \"a new species...homo globalis – global man.\" In this new system, people \"...are defined by our intimate connection to the global infotainment network, which has turned ranking and rating people on scales of wealth and celebrity into an obsession.\" \n\nStrenger states that \"...as humans we naturally measure ourselves to those around us, but now that we live in a “global village” we are comparing ourselves with the most “significant” [celebrity] people in the world, and finding ourselves wanting.\" He notes that \"...in the past being a lawyer or doctor was a very reputable profession, but in this day and age, even high achievers constantly fear that they are insignificant when they compare themselves to [celebrity] success stories in the media. Strenger claims that this \"...creates highly unstable self-esteem and an unstable society.\"\n\nAlain de Botton describes some of the same issues in his book \"Status Anxiety\". Botton's book examines people's anxiety about whether they are judged a success or a failure. De Botton claims that chronic anxiety about status is an inevitable side effect of any democratic, ostensibly egalitarian society.\n\nEdith Wharton stated that “It is less mortifying to believe one's self unpopular than insignificant, and vanity prefers to assume that indifference is a latent form of unfriendliness.” Leo Tolstoy wrote that “If you once realize that to-morrow, if not to-day, you will die and nothing will be left of you, everything becomes insignificant!”\n\nBlaise Pascal emphasized \"the apparent insignificance of human existence, the \"...dread of an unknown future\", and the \"...experience of being dominated by political and natural forces that far exceed our limited powers\"; these elements \"strike a chord of recognition with some of the existentialist writings that emerged in Europe following the Second World War.\"\n\nErich Fromm states that in modern capitalist societies, people develop a \"...feeling of personal insignificance and powerlessness\" due to \"...economic recessions, global wars and terrorism.\" Fromm argues that in capitalist societies, the \"...individual became subordinated to capitalist production and worked for profit's sake, for the development of new investment capital and for conspicuous spending.\" In making people \"...work for extrapersonal ends,\" capitalism made people into a \"servant to the very machine he built\" and caused feelings of insignificance to arise.\n\nMartin Luther believed that the solution to the feelings of insignificance felt by the common person \"...was to accept individual insignificance, to submit, to give up individual will and strength and hope to become acceptable to God.\"\n\nA person who is in awe of a monumental natural wonder, such as a massive mountain peak or waterfall, may feel insignificant. Awe is an emotion comparable to wonder but less joyous, and more fearful or respectful. Awe is defined in Robert Plutchik's Wheel of emotions as a combination of surprise and fear. One dictionary definition is \"an overwhelming feeling of reverence, admiration, fear, etc., produced by that which is grand, sublime, extremely powerful, or the like: in awe of God; in awe of great political figures\". In general awe is directed at objects considered to be more powerful than the subject, such as the breaking of huge waves on the base of a rocky cliff, the thundering roar of a massive waterfall, the Great Pyramid of Giza, the Grand Canyon, or the vastness of open space in the cosmos.\n\nIn her column in Scientific American, Jennifer Ouellette referred to the vastness of the cosmos:\nIf one embraces an atheist worldview, it necessarily requires embracing, even celebrating, one's insignificance. It's a tall order, I know, when one is accustomed to being the center of attention. The universe existed in all its vastness before I was born, and it will exist and continue to evolve after I am gone. But knowing that doesn't make me feel bleak or hopeless. I find it strangely comforting.\n\nThe concept of \"insignificance\" is also important to the literary philosophy of cosmicism. One of the prominent themes in cosmicism is the utter insignificance of humanity. H. P. Lovecraft believed that \"the human race will disappear. Other races will appear and disappear in turn. The sky will become icy and void, pierced by the feeble light of half-dead stars. Which will also disappear. Everything will disappear.\"\n\nColin Wilson criticizes “the sense of defeat, or disaster, or futility, that seems to underlie so much...20th century literature\", and its tendency \"...to portray human existence as insignificant and futile.\" Wilson \"...calls this affliction the \"fallacy of insignificance\", and as he explains in \"The Stature of Man\" this fallacy is unconsciously embedded in the psychology of the modern individual.\" Wilson argues that the \"other-directed individual...is the typical person found in our modern society today and is a victim of the \"fallacy of insignificance\".\" He claims that the \"...other directed individual has been conditioned by society to lack self-confidence in their ability to achieve anything of real worth, and thus they conform to society to escape their feelings of unimportance and uselessness.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31790142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31790142", "title": "John Henry effect", "text": "John Henry effect\n\nThe John Henry effect is an experimental bias introduced into social experiments by reactive behavior by the control group.\n\nIn a controlled social experiment if a control is aware of their status as members of the control group and is able to compare their performance with that of the treatment group, members of the control group may actively work harder to overcome the \"disadvantage\" of being in the control group.\n\nFor example, if in an educational trial where the school classes who are in the treatment receive an extra support teacher, students who are in the control group may be induced to work harder to overcome that disadvantage.\n\nThe term was first used by Gary Saretsky (1972) to describe the behavior of John Henry, a legendary American steel driver in the 1870s who, when he heard his output was being compared with that of a steam drill, worked so hard to outperform the machine that he died in the process.\n\n"}
{"id": "42306646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42306646", "title": "K. G. Kannabiran", "text": "K. G. Kannabiran\n\nK G Kannabiran was a human rights activist and a lawyer of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh (AP). He was cofounder and National President of People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL).\n\nHe was born on 9 November 1929, in Madurai, Tamil Nadu, to Kandala Gopalaswamy Iyengar, a doctor, and Pankajammal. His early education was in Hyderabad and Nellore. He obtained a BA Hons degree in economics (equivalent to Masters) and a degree in law from Madras University. He enrolled in the Madras Bar Council and started his practice in 1953 with the help of his advocate cousin Srinivasa Raghavan (Rajappa). He married Vasanth Kannabiran in 1959. His daughter, Chitra Kannabiran, a molecular biologist was born in 1960; second daughter Kalpana Kannabiran, a sociologist was born in 1961; and his son Arvind Kannabiran, a cinematographer, was born in 1966. He moved to Hyderabad and set up practice there soon after his marriage.\n\nHe practiced law in Madras (now Chennai) with moderate success and shifted to Hyderabad in 1960 soon after his marriage in 1959.\n\nKannabiran started his career as an advocate in AP High court in the early 1960s. He defended human rights and political dissents cases, including Shankar Guha Niyogi, conspiracy cases and political prisoner cases. He was a founding member of PUCL and APCLC and other human rights organizations. Kannabiran took up cases of human rights violations, political dissidents and encounter cases, including four major conspiracy cases, Parvathipuram (Srikakulam district), Tarimela Nagi Reddy, Secunderabad and Ramnagar in 1975. Pleading his case in the lower court, he ultimately succeeded in getting the murderers convicted and punished by the High Court.\n\nThe PUCL was an attempt to establish an organisation free from political ideologies, through which people connected with different political parties could be brought onto a common platform for the defence of civil liberties and human rights. Kannabiran was one of the National Executive members of the PUCL. Kannabiran remained President of PUCL from 1995 to 2009.\n\nHe published the book \"The Wages of Impunity — Power, Justice and Human Rights\".\n\nHe died at age 81 after a brief illness in Hyderabad.\n"}
{"id": "5993712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5993712", "title": "Koide formula", "text": "Koide formula\n\nThe Koide formula is an unexplained empirical equation discovered by Yoshio Koide in 1981. In its original form, it relates the masses of the three charged leptons; later authors have extended the relation to neutrinos, quarks, and other families of particles.\n\nThe Koide formula is:\n\nwhere the masses of the electron, muon, and tau are measured respectively as \"m\" = , \"m\" = , and \"m\" = , and the digits in parentheses are the uncertainties in the last figures. This gives \"Q\" = . \n\nIt is clear that . The superior bound follows if we assume that the square roots cannot be negative. By Cauchy-Schwarz, the value formula_2 can be interpreted as the squared cosine of the angle between the vector formula_3 and the vector\nformula_4. (See dot product).\n\nThe mystery is in the physical value. Not only is this result odd in that three apparently random numbers should give a simple fraction, but also that \"Q\" is exactly halfway between the two extremes of (should the three masses be equal) and 1 (should one mass dominate). \n\nWhile the original formula appeared in the context of preon models, other ways have been found to produce it (both by Sumino and by Koide, see references below). As a whole, however, understanding remains incomplete. Similar matches have been found for triplets of quarks depending on running masses. With alternating quarks, chaining Koide equations for consecutive triplets, it is possible to reach a result of 173.263947(6) GeV for the mass of the top quark.\n\nThere are similar empirical formulae which relate other masses. \nQuark masses depend on the energy scale used to measure them, which makes an analysis more complicated.\n\nTaking the heaviest three quarks, charm (1290 MeV), bottom (4180 MeV) and top (172440 MeV), gives the value:\n\nThe possibility that \"Q\" equals exactly 2/3 lies within the experimental uncertainties of the masses (). This was noticed by Rodejohann and Zhang in the first version of their 2011 paper but the observation was removed in the published version, so the first published mention is in 2012 from F. G. Cao.\n\nHowever, the masses of the lightest quarks, up (2.3 MeV), down (4.8 MeV), and strange (95 MeV) yield:\n\na value also cited by Cao.\n\nIn quantum field theory, quantities like coupling constant and mass \"run\" with the energy scale. That is, their value depends on the energy scale at which the observation occurs, in a way described by a renormalization group equation (RGE). One usually expects relationships between such quantities to be simple at high energies (where some symmetry is unbroken) but not at low energies, where the RG flow will have produced complicated deviations from the high energy relation. The Koide relation is exact (within experimental error) for the pole masses, which are low-energy quantities defined at different energy scales. For this reason, many physicists regard the relation as \"numerology\" (e.g.). However, the Japanese physicist Yukinari Sumino has constructed an effective field theory in which a new gauge symmetry causes the pole masses to exactly satisfy the relation. Goffinet's doctoral thesis gives a discussion on pole masses and how the Koide formula can be reformulated without taking the square roots of masses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24630810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24630810", "title": "Lily-white movement", "text": "Lily-white movement\n\nThe Lily-White Movement was an anti-civil-rights movement within the Republican Party in the United States in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The movement was a response to the political and socioeconomic gains made by African-Americans following the Civil War and the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution, which eliminated slavery.\n\nDuring Reconstruction, following the U.S. Civil War, black leaders in Texas and around the country gained increasing influence in the Republican Party by organizing blacks as an important voting bloc via Union Leagues and the biracial Black-and-tan faction of the Republicans. Conservative whites attempted to eliminate this influence and recover white voters who had defected to the Democratic Party. The effort was largely successful in eliminating African-American influence in the Republican Party leading to black voters predominantly migrating to the Democratic Party for much of the 20th century.\n\nThe term \"lily-white movement\" was coined by Texas Republican leader Norris Wright Cuney, who used the term in an 1888 Republican convention to describe efforts by white conservatives to oust blacks from positions of Texas party leadership and incite riots to divide the party. The term came to be used nationally to describe this ongoing movement as it further developed in the early 20th century, including through the administration of Herbert Hoover. Localized movements began immediately after the war but by the beginning of the 20th century the effort had become national.\n\nAccording to author and professor Michael K. Fauntroy, \"the 'Lily-White Movement' is one of the darkest, and under-examined \"\", eras of American Republicanism.\"\n\nImmediately following the war all of the Southern states enacted \"Black Codes,\" laws intended specifically to curtail the rights of the newly freed slaves. Many Northern states enacted their own \"Black Codes\" restricting or barring black immigration. The Civil Rights Act of 1866, however, nullified most of these laws and the federal Freedman's Bureau was able to regulate many of the affairs of Southern blacks, who were granted the right to vote in 1867. Groups such as the Union League and the Radical Republicans sought total equality and complete integration of blacks into American society. The Republican Party itself held significant power in the South during Reconstruction because of the federal government's role.\n\nDuring Reconstruction, Union Leagues were formed across the South after 1867 as all-black working auxiliaries of the Republican Party. They were secret organizations that mobilized freedmen to register to vote and to vote Republican. They discussed political issues, promoted civic projects, and mobilized workers opposed to certain employers. Most branches were segregated but there were a few that were racially integrated. The leaders of the all-black units were mostly urban blacks from the North, who had never been slaves. Historian Eric Foner reports:\n\nDuring the 19th century numerous African Americans were elected to the United States Congress, all members of the Republican Party. In the South the party was a voting coalition of Freedmen (freed slaves), Carpetbaggers (recent arrivals from the North), and Scalawags (Southern whites, especially men who had been Unionists in the War). In Texas, blacks comprised 90% of the party members during the 1880s. The first black senator was Hiram Rhodes Revels of Mississippi. The first black representative was John Willis Menard of Louisiana. Over the course of the century, an additional black senator (from Mississippi) would be elected and more than 20 black representatives would be elected from Louisiana, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Florida, North Carolina, and Virginia.\n\nBlacks held other powerful political positions in government. P. B. S. Pinchback was elected lieutenant governor of Louisiana and even served briefly as governor. Pierre Caliste Landry became mayor of Donaldsonville, Louisiana. Edward Duplex became mayor of Wheatland, California.\n\nIn the South the Republican party gradually came to be known as \"the party of the Negro.\" In Texas, for example, blacks made 90% of the party during the 1880s. The Democratic party increasingly came to be seen by many in the white community as the party of respectability. The first Ku Klux Klan targeted violence against black Republican leaders and seriously undercut the Union League.\n\nIn the 1870s through early 1890s, Democrats in Southern states used various methods to suppress the vote of blacks, largely intimidation, violence and fraud. Republicans responded by challenging the election results and overturning them in order to count the votes of blacks. This was much more successful when Republicans held an uncontested majority of the US House than otherwise.\n\nFrom the beginning of Reconstruction, conservative Southern white factions fought against the black-and-tan faction, coalitions of blacks and liberal whites, for control of the Republican Party. White Republican leaders became increasingly concerned about the exodus of white voters in other parts of the country, some out of concerns for the strength of the party and some for purely racist reasons, thus giving impetus to what would be called the \"lily-white movement\".\n\nBlacks increasingly demanded more and more offices at the expense of the Scalawags. The more numerous black-and-tan element typically won the factional battles; many Scalawags joined the opposing lily-whites or switched to the Democrats. The black-and-tans predominated in counties with large black populations, as the whites in these counties were usually Democrats, whereas the lily-whites were found mostly in the counties where fewer blacks lived.\n\nFollowing the death of Texas Republican leader Edmund J. Davis in 1883, black civil rights leader Norris Wright Cuney rose to the Republican chairmanship in Texas, becoming the national committeeman in 1889. While blacks were a minority overall in Texas, Cuney's rise to this position caused a backlash among white conservative Republicans in other areas, leading to the lily-white's becoming a more organized, nationwide effort. Cuney himself coined the term \"lily-white movement\" to describe rapidly intensifying organized efforts by white conservatives to oust blacks from positions of party leadership and incite riots to divide the party. Some authors contend that the effort was coordinated with Democrats as part of a larger movement toward disenfranchisement of blacks in the South by increasing restrictions in voter registration rules.\n\nBy 1890 the Democratic Party had gained control of all state legislatures in the South (with a few brief exceptions as in North Carolina). By the beginning of the 20th century black political influence was in freefall. From 1890 to 1908, Southern states accomplished disenfranchisement of blacks and, in some states, many poor whites. During the first three decades of the 20th century blacks were excluded from the U.S. Congress.\n\nBy the 1890s most blacks had abandoned or were prevented from seeking office in the U.S. Congress. The last five African Americans that served in Congress, all college-educated, were the product of Reconstruction era educational and economic opportunities which were significantly eroded in the early 20th century. The last black Congressman of this earlier era departed the Congress in 1901. Blacks still had some influence in the Republican party but their influence continued to decline rapidly.\n\nBy the beginning of the 20th century, black political influence was in freefall, both because the Republican lily-white movement and the efforts by the Democratic Southern governments. During the first three decades of the 20th century, no blacks served in the U.S. Congress due to their disenfranchisement across the South. By the 1920s, the lily-white movement had largely succeeded in establishing almost total white supremacy in the party. Black leaders were barred in 1922 from the Virginia Republican Congressional Convention. The state had imposed racial segregation of public places and disenfranchised most blacks by this time.\n\nAt a national level, the Republican Party made some attempts to respond to black interests. The party proposed federal legislation to prohibit lynching, which was always defeated by the Southern bloc. In 1920 Republicans made opposition to lynching part of their platform at the Republican National Convention. Lynchings, primarily of black men in the South, had increased in the decades around the turn of the 20th century. Leonidas C. Dyer, a white Republican Representative from St. Louis, Missouri, worked with the NAACP to introduce an anti-lynching bill into the House, where he gained strong passage in 1922. One of the Black and Tan partisans who continued to hold appointed office was Walter L. Cohen of New Orleans, the customs inspector and later comptroller of customs. He gained appointments from four Republican presidents and continued in office through the Calvin Coolidge administration.\n\nDuring the NAACP national convention in 1926, the delegates expressed their disappointment with the party:\n\nAn interesting historical irony is that, though strengthening the Republican Party in the South was a major motivation of the movement, the party faded to near irrelevance in the South during the early 20th century despite the movement's success.\n\nLily-white/black-and-tan factionalism flared up in 1928, when Herbert Hoover tried to appeal to southern whites; and 1952. The surviving Black-and-tan factions lost heavily in 1964 and practically vanished. Due to Democratic support of the civil rights movement and Congressional passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, the shift of African Americans toward Democratic candidates accelerated.\n\n\n\ncitation 1 incomplete. what is Myrdal 1996? no such citation exists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2483815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2483815", "title": "MV-algebra", "text": "MV-algebra\n\nIn abstract algebra, a branch of pure mathematics, an MV-algebra is an algebraic structure with a binary operation formula_1, a unary operation formula_2, and the constant formula_3, satisfying certain axioms. MV-algebras are the algebraic semantics of Łukasiewicz logic; the letters MV refer to the \"many-valued\" logic of Łukasiewicz. MV-algebras coincide with the class of bounded commutative BCK algebras.\n\nAn MV-algebra is an algebraic structure formula_4 consisting of\nwhich satisfies the following identities:\n\nBy virtue of the first three axioms, formula_18 is a commutative monoid. Being defined by identities, MV-algebras form a variety of algebras. The variety of MV-algebras is a subvariety of the variety of BL-algebras and contains all Boolean algebras.\n\nAn MV-algebra can equivalently be defined (Hájek 1998) as a prelinear commutative bounded integral residuated lattice formula_19 satisfying the additional identity formula_20\n\nA simple numerical example is formula_21 with operations formula_22 and formula_23 In mathematical fuzzy logic, this MV-algebra is called the \"standard MV-algebra\", as it forms the standard real-valued semantics of Łukasiewicz logic.\n\nThe \"trivial\" MV-algebra has the only element 0 and the operations defined in the only possible way, formula_24 and formula_25\n\nThe \"two-element\" MV-algebra is actually the two-element Boolean algebra formula_26 with formula_1 coinciding with Boolean disjunction and formula_8 with Boolean negation. In fact adding the axiom formula_29 to the axioms defining an MV-algebra results in an axiomatization of Boolean algebras.\n\nIf instead the axiom added is formula_30, then the axioms define the MV algebra corresponding to the three-valued Łukasiewicz logic Ł. Other finite linearly ordered MV-algebras are obtained by restricting the universe and operations of the standard MV-algebra to the set of formula_31 equidistant real numbers between 0 and 1 (both included), that is, the set formula_32 which is closed under the operations formula_1 and formula_8 of the standard MV-algebra; these algebras are usually denoted MV.\n\nAnother important example is \"Chang's MV-algebra\", consisting just of infinitesimals (with the order type ω) and their co-infinitesimals.\n\nChang also constructed an MV-algebra from an arbitrary totally ordered abelian group \"G\" by fixing a positive element \"u\" and defining the segment [0, \"u\"] as { \"x\" ∈ \"G\" | 0 ≤ \"x\" ≤ \"u\" }, which becomes an MV-algebra with \"x\" ⊕ \"y\" = min(\"u\", \"x\"+\"y\") and ¬\"x\" = \"u\"−\"x\". Furthermore, Chang showed that every linearly ordered MV-algebra is isomorphic to an MV-algebra constructed from a group in this way.\n\nD. Mundici extended the above construction to abelian lattice-ordered groups. If \"G\" is such a group with strong (order) unit \"u\", then the \"unit interval\" { \"x\" ∈ \"G\" | 0 ≤ \"x\" ≤ \"u\" } can be equipped with ¬\"x\" = \"u\"−\"x\", \"x\" ⊕ \"y\" = \"u\"∧ (x+y), \"x\" ⊗ \"y\" = 0∨(\"x\"+\"y\"−\"u\"). This construction establishes a categorical equivalence between lattice-ordered abelian groups with strong unit and MV-algebras.\n\nC. C. Chang devised MV-algebras to study many-valued logics, introduced by Jan Łukasiewicz in 1920. In particular, MV-algebras form the algebraic semantics of Łukasiewicz logic, as described below.\n\nGiven an MV-algebra \"A\", an \"A\"-valuation is a homomorphism from the algebra of propositional formulas (in the language consisting of formula_35 and 0) into \"A\". Formulas mapped to 1 (or formula_80) for all \"A\"-valuations are called \"A\"-tautologies. If the standard MV-algebra over [0,1] is employed, the set of all [0,1]-tautologies determines so-called infinite-valued Łukasiewicz logic.\n\nChang's (1958, 1959) completeness theorem states that any MV-algebra equation holding in the standard MV-algebra over the interval [0,1] will hold in every MV-algebra. Algebraically, this means that the standard MV-algebra generates the variety of all MV-algebras. Equivalently, Chang's completeness theorem says that MV-algebras characterize infinite-valued Łukasiewicz logic, defined as the set of [0,1]-tautologies.\n\nThe way the [0,1] MV-algebra characterizes all possible MV-algebras parallels the well-known fact that identities holding in the two-element Boolean algebra hold in all possible Boolean algebras. Moreover, MV-algebras characterize infinite-valued Łukasiewicz logic in a manner analogous to the way that Boolean algebras characterize classical bivalent logic (see Lindenbaum–Tarski algebra).\n\nIn 1984, Font, Rodriguez and Torrens introduced the Wajsberg algebra as an alternative model for the infinite-valued Łukasiewicz logic. Wajsberg algebras and MV-algebras are isomorphic.\n\nIn the 1940s Grigore Moisil introduced his Łukasiewicz–Moisil algebras (LM-algebras) in the hope of giving algebraic semantics for the (finitely) \"n\"-valued Łukasiewicz logic. However, in 1956 Alan Rose discovered that for \"n\" ≥ 5, the Łukasiewicz–Moisil algebra does not model the Łukasiewicz \"n\"-valued logic. Although C. C. Chang published his MV-algebra in 1958, it is faithful model only for the ℵ-valued (infinitely-many-valued) Łukasiewicz–Tarski logic. For the axiomatically more complicated (finitely) \"n\"-valued Łukasiewicz logics, suitable algebras were published in 1977 by Revaz Grigolia and called MV-algebras. MV-algebras are a subclass of LM-algebras; the inclusion is strict for \"n\" ≥ 5.\n\nThe MV-algebras are MV-algebras which satisfy some additional axioms, just like the \"n\"-valued Łukasiewicz logics have additional axioms added to the ℵ-valued logic.\n\nIn 1982 Roberto Cignoli published some additional constraints that added to LM-algebras are proper models for \"n\"-valued Łukasiewicz logic; Cignoli called his discovery \"proper \"n\"-valued Łukasiewicz algebras\". The LM-algebras that are also MV-algebras are precisely Cignoli’s proper n-valued Łukasiewicz algebras.\n\nMV-algebras were related by Daniele Mundici to approximately finite-dimensional C*-algebras by establishing a bijective correspondence between all isomorphism classes of AF C*-algebras with lattice-ordered dimension group and all isomorphism classes of countable MV algebras. Some instances of this correspondence include:\n\nThere are multiple frameworks implementing fuzzy logic (type II), and most of them implement what has been called a multi-adjoint logic. This is no more than the implementation of a MV-algebra.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "432318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432318", "title": "Marginal rate of substitution", "text": "Marginal rate of substitution\n\nIn economics, the marginal rate of substitution (MRS) is the rate at which a consumer can give up some amount of one good in exchange for another good while maintaining the same level of utility. At equilibrium consumption levels (assuming no externalities), marginal rates of substitution are identical.\n\nUnder the standard assumption of neoclassical economics that goods and services are continuously divisible, the marginal rates of substitution will be the same regardless of the direction of exchange, and will correspond to the slope of an indifference curve (more precisely, to the slope multiplied by −1) passing through the consumption bundle in question, at that point: mathematically, it is the implicit derivative. MRS of X for Y is the amount of Y which a consumer can exchange for one unit of X locally. The MRS is different at each point along the indifference curve thus it is important to keep locus in the definition. Further on this assumption, or otherwise on the assumption that utility is quantified, the marginal rate of substitution of good or service Y for good or service X (MRS) is also equivalent to the marginal utility of X over the marginal utility of Y. Formally,\n\nIt is important to note that when comparing bundles of goods X and Y that give a constant utility (points along an indifference curve), the marginal utility of X is measured in terms of units of Y that is being given up.\n\nFor example, if the MRS = 2, the consumer will give up 2 units of Y to obtain 1 additional unit of X.\n\nAs one moves down a (standardly convex) indifference curve, the marginal rate of substitution decreases (as measured by the absolute value of the slope of the indifference curve, which decreases). This is known as the law of diminishing marginal rate of substitution.\n\nSince the indifference curve is convex with respect to the origin and we have defined the MRS as the negative slope of the indifference curve,\n\nAssume the consumer utility function is defined by formula_4, where \"U\" is consumer utility, \"x\" and \"y\" are goods. Then the marginal rate of substitution can be computed via partial differentiation, as follows.\n\nAlso, note that:\n\nwhere formula_7 is the marginal utility with respect to good \"x\" and formula_8 is the marginal utility with respect to good \"y\".\n\nBy taking the total differential of the utility function equation, we obtain the following results:\n\nThrough any point on the indifference curve, \"dU/dx\" = 0, because \"U\" = \"c\", where \"c\" is a constant. It follows from the above equation that:\n\nThe marginal rate of substitution is defined as the absolute value of the slope of the indifference curve at whichever commodity bundle quantities are of interest. That turns out to equal the ratio of the marginal utilities:\n\nWhen consumers maximize utility with respect to a budget constraint, the indifference curve is tangent to the budget line, therefore, with \"m\" representing slope:\n\nTherefore, when the consumer is choosing his utility maximized market basket on his budget line,\n\nThis important result tells us that utility is maximized when the consumer's budget is allocated so that the marginal utility per unit of money spent is equal for each good. If this equality did not hold, the consumer could increase his/her utility by cutting spending on the good with lower marginal utility per unit of money and increase spending on the other good. To decrease the marginal rate of substitution, the consumer must buy more of the good for which he/she wishes the marginal utility to fall for (due to the law of diminishing marginal utility).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27987730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27987730", "title": "Mindfulness-based stress reduction", "text": "Mindfulness-based stress reduction\n\nMindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) is a program that incorporates mindfulness to assist people with pain and a range of conditions and life issues that were initially difficult to treat in a hospital setting. Developed at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center in the 1970s by Professor Jon Kabat-Zinn, MBSR uses a combination of mindfulness meditation, body awareness, and yoga to help people become more mindful. In recent years, meditation has been the subject of controlled clinical research. This suggests it may have beneficial effects, including stress reduction, relaxation, and improvements to quality of life, but that it does not help prevent or cure disease. While MBSR has its roots in spiritual teachings, the program itself is secular.\n\nIn 1979 Kabat-Zinn founded the Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction Clinic at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center, and nearly twenty years later the Center for Mindfulness in Medicine, Health Care and Society at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. Both these institutions supported the successful growth and implementation of MBSR into hospitals worldwide. In 2015, MBSR is practiced as a complementary medicine, commonly in the field of oncology; in the same year, 2015, close to 80% of medical schools are reported to offer some element of mindfulness training and research and education centers dedicated to mindfulness have proliferated.\n\nMBSR has been described as \"a group program that focuses upon the progressive acquisition of mindful awareness, of mindfulness\". The MBSR program is an eight-week workshop taught by certified trainers that entails weekly group meetings (two-hour classes) and a one-day retreat (six-hour mindfulness practice) between sessions six and seven, homework (45 minutes daily), and instruction in three formal techniques: mindfulness meditation, body scanning and simple yoga postures. Body scanning is the first prolonged formal mindfulness technique taught during the first four weeks of the workshop, and entails quietly lying on one's back and focusing one's attention on various regions of the body, starting with the toes and moving up slowly to the top of the head.\nMBSR is based on the following tenets: non-judging, non-striving, acceptance, letting go, beginner’s mind, patience, trust, and non-centering.\n\nAccording to Kabat-Zinn, the basis of MBSR is mindfulness, which he defined as \"moment-to-moment, non-judgmental awareness.\" During the program, participants are asked to focus on informal practice as well by incorporating mindfulness into their daily routines. Focusing on the present is thought to heighten sensitivity to the environment and one’s own reactions to it, consequently enhancing self-management and coping. It also provides an outlet from ruminating on the past or worrying about the future, breaking the cycle of these maladaptive cognitive processes.\n\nScientific evidence of the debilitating effects of stress on human body and its evolutionary origins were pinpointed by the ground-breaking work of Robert Sapolsky, and explored for lay readers in the book \"Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers\". Sapolsky's work consequently promotes mindfulness-based techniques for a better lifestyle and healthy stress management.\n\nAccording to a 2014 article in \"Time\" magazine, mindfulness meditation is becoming popular among people who would not normally consider meditation. The curriculum started by Kabat-Zinn at University of Massachusetts Medical Center has produced nearly 1,000 \ncertified MBSR instructors who are in nearly every state in the US and more than 30 countries. Corporations such as General Mills have made it available to their employees or set aside rooms for meditation. Democratic Congressman Tim Ryan published a book in 2012 titled \"A Mindful Nation\" and he has helped organize regular group meditation periods on Capitol Hill.\n\nMindfulness-based stress reduction classes and programs are offered by various facilities including hospitals, retreat centers, and various yoga facilities. Typically the programs focus on teaching,\n\nMindfulness-based approaches have been tested for a range of health problems including anxiety disorder, mood disorder, substance abuse disorder, eating disorders, chronic pain, ADHD, insomnia, coping with medical conditions, with many populations including children, adolescents, parents, teachers, therapists, and physicians. As a major subject of increasing research interest, 52 papers were published in 2003, rising to 477 by 2012. Nearly 100 randomized controlled trials had been published by early 2014.\n\nResearch suggests mindfulness training improves focus, attention, and ability to work under stress.\n\nA 2013 statement from the American Heart Association on alternative approaches to lowering blood pressure concluded that MBSR was not recommended in clinical practice to lower blood pressure. MBSR can have a beneficial effect helping with the depression and psychological distress associated with chronic illness. \n\nPreliminary evidence suggests efficacy of mindfulness meditation in the treatment of substance use disorders; however, further study is required. MBSR might be beneficial for people with fibromyalgia: there is no evidence of long-term benefit but low-quality evidence of a small short-term benefit.\n\nIn 2010, a meta-analysis was conducted by Hoffman and colleagues exploring the efficacy of MBSR and similarly structured programs for adults with symptoms of anxiety and depression. The meta-analysis showed that between pre and post testing there was significant medium within in-group effect sizes observed on anxiety and depression and also small to medium between-group effect sizes when comparing wait-list, treatment as usual, and active treatment (MBSR), further supporting the literature that states mindfulness-based therapies can be beneficial in treating symptoms of depression and anxiety. A broader meta-analysis conducted in 2004 by Grossman and colleagues found similar effect sizes when testing the physical and mental health outcomes following MBSR treatment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "168907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168907", "title": "Naïve physics", "text": "Naïve physics\n\nNaïve physics or folk physics is the untrained human perception of basic physical phenomena. In the field of artificial intelligence the study of naïve physics is a part of the effort to formalize the common knowledge of human beings.\n\nMany ideas of folk physics are simplifications, misunderstandings, or misperceptions of well-understood phenomena, incapable of giving useful predictions of detailed experiments, or simply are contradicted by more thorough observations. They may sometimes be true, be true in certain limited cases, be true as a good first approximation to a more complex effect, or predict the same effect but misunderstand the underlying mechanism.\n\nNaïve physics can also be defined as an intuitive understanding all humans have about objects in the physical world. Cognitive psychologists are delving deeper into these phenomena with promising results. Psychological studies indicate that certain notions of the physical world are innate in all of us.\n\nSome examples of naïve physics include commonly understood, intuitive, or everyday-observed rules of nature:\n\n\nMany of these and similar ideas formed the basis for the first works in formulating and systematizing physics by Aristotle and the medieval scholastics in Western civilization. In the modern science of physics, they were gradually contradicted by the work of Galileo, Newton, and others. The idea of absolute simultaneity survived until 1905, when the special theory of relativity and its supporting experiments discredited it.\n\nThe increasing sophistication of technology make possible more research on knowledge acquisition. Researchers measure physiological responses (like heart rate or eye movement) to quantify reaction to a particular stimulus. Concrete physiological data is helpful when observing infant behavior, because infants cannot use words to explain things (such as their reactions) the way most adults or older children can.\n\nResearch in naïve physics relies on technology to measure eye gaze and reaction time in particular. Through observation, researchers know that infants get bored looking at the same stimulus after a certain amount of time. That boredom is called habituation. When an infant is sufficiently habituated to a stimulus, he or she will typically look away, alerting the experimenter to his or her boredom. At this point, the experimenter will introduce another stimulus. The infant will then dishabituate by attending to the new stimulus. In each case, the experimenter measures the time it takes for the infant to habituate to each stimulus.\n\nResearchers infer that the longer the infant takes to habituate to a new stimulus, the more it violates his or her expectations of physical phenomena. When an adult observes an optical illusion that seems physically impossible, he or she will attend to it until it makes sense. Until recently, psychologists believed that our understanding of physical laws emerges strictly from experience. But research shows that infants, who do not yet have such expansive knowledge of the world, have the same extended reaction to events that defy what is physically possible. Such studies conclude that all people are born with an innate ability to understand the physical world.\n\nSmith and Cassati (1994) have reviewed the early history of naïve physics, and especially the role of the Italian psychologist Paolo Bozzi.\n\nThe basic experimental procedure of a study on naïve physics involves three steps: prediction of the infant's expectation, violation of that expectation, and measurement of the results. As mentioned above, the physically impossible event holds the infant's attention longer, indicating surprise when expectations are violated.\n\nAn experiment that tests an infant's knowledge of solidity involves the impossible event of one solid object passing through another. First, the infant is shown a flat, solid square moving from 0˚ to 180˚ in an arch formation. Next, a solid block is placed in the path of the screen, preventing it from completing its full range of motion. The infant habituates to this event, as it is what anyone would expect. Then, the experimenter creates the impossible event, and the solid screen passes through the solid block. The infant is confused by the event and attends longer than in probable event trial.\n\nAn occlusion event tests the knowledge that an object exists even if it is not immediately visible. Jean Piaget originally called this concept object permanence. When Piaget formed his developmental theory in the 1950s, he claimed that object permanence is learned, not innate. The children's game peek-a-boo is a classic example of this phenomenon, and one which obscures the true grasp infants have on permanence. To disprove this notion, an experimenter designs an impossible occlusion event. The infant is shown a block and a transparent screen. The infant habituates, then a solid panel is placed in front of the objects to block them from view. When the panel is removed, the block is gone, but the screen remains. The infant is confused because the block has disappeared indicating that he/she understands that objects maintain location in space and do not simply disappear.\n\nA containment event tests the infant's recognition that an object that is bigger than a container cannot fit completely into that container. Elizabeth Spelke, one of the psychologists who founded the naïve physics movement, identified the continuity principle, which conveys an understanding that objects exist continuously in time and space. Both occlusion and containment experiments hinge on the continuity principle. In the experiment, the infant is shown a tall cylinder and a tall cylindrical container. The experimenter demonstrates that the tall cylinder fits into the tall container, and the infant is bored by the expected physical outcome. The experimenter then places the tall cylinder completely into a much shorter cylindrical container, and the impossible event confuses the infant. Extended attention demonstrates the infant's understanding that containers cannot hold objects that exceed them in height.\n\nThe published findings of Renee Baillargeon brought innate knowledge to the forefront in psychological research. Her research method centered on the visual preference technique. Baillargeon and her followers studied how infants show preference to one stimulus over another. Experimenters judge preference by the length of time an infant will stare at a stimulus before habituating. Researchers believe that preference indicates the infant's ability to discriminate between the two events.\n\n"}
{"id": "37495731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37495731", "title": "Nine Schools of Thought", "text": "Nine Schools of Thought\n\nThe Nine Schools of Thought were the primary schools during the Hundred Schools of Thought period of China during the Eastern Zhou dynasty.\n\nThey were:\n\nAlthough only the first three of these went on to receive imperial patronage in later dynasties, doctrines from each influenced the others and Chinese society in sometimes unusual ways. The Mohists, for instance, found little interest in their praise of meritocracy but much acceptance for their mastery of defensive siege warfare; much later, however, their arguments against nepotism were used in favor of establishing the imperial examination system.\n"}
{"id": "938689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=938689", "title": "Petite bourgeoisie", "text": "Petite bourgeoisie\n\nPetite bourgeoisie (, literally small bourgeoisie), also petty bourgeoisie, is a French term (sometimes derogatory) referring to a social class comprising semi-autonomous peasantry and small-scale merchants whose politico-economic ideological stance in times of socioeconomic stability is determined by reflecting that of a haute (\"high\") bourgeoisie, with which the petite bourgeoisie seeks to identify itself and whose bourgeois morality it strives to imitate.\n\nThe term is politico-economic and references historical materialism. It originally denoted a sub-stratum of the middle classes in the 18th and early-19th centuries. In the mid-19th century, the German economist Karl Marx and other Marxist theorists used the term \"petite bourgeoisie\" to identify the socio-economic stratum of the bourgeoisie that comprised small-scale capitalists such as shop-keepers and workers who manage the production, distribution and/or exchange of commodities and/or services owned by their bourgeois employers.\n\nThe petite bourgeoisie is economically distinct from the proletariat and the lumpenproletariat social-class strata who rely entirely on the sale of their labor-power for survival; and also are distinct from the capitalist class haute bourgeoisie (\"high bourgeoisie\") who own the means of production and thus can buy the labor-power of the proletariat and lumpenproletariat to work the means of production. Though the petite bourgeoisie can buy the labor of others, they typically work alongside their employees, unlike the haute bourgeoisie.\n\nHistorically, Karl Marx predicted that the petite bourgeoisie were to lose in the course of economic development. In the event, R. J. B. Bosworth suggested that they were to become the political mainstay of fascism, which political reaction was their terroristic response to the inevitable loss of power (economic, political and social) to the haute bourgeoisie. Wilhelm Reich also highlighted the principal support of the rise of fascism in Germany given by the petite bourgeoisie and middle class in \"The Mass Psychology of Fascism\". He claimed that the middle classes were a hotbed for political reaction due to their reliance on the patriarchal family (according to Reich, small businesses are often self-exploiting enterprises of families headed by the father, whose morality binds the family together in their somewhat precarious economic position) and the sexual repression that underlies it.\n\nSøren Kierkegaard wrote that \"the petty bourgeois is spiritless[.] [...] Devoid of imagination, as the petty bourgeois always is, he lives within a certain orbit of trivial experiences as to how things come about, what is possible, what usually happens, no matter whether he is a tapster or a prime minister. This is the way the petty bourgeois has lost himself and God\". According to him, the petite bourgeoisie exemplifies a spiritual emptiness that is rooted in an overemphasis on the worldly, rather than the inwardness of the self. However, Kierkegaard's indictment relies less on a class analysis of the petite bourgeoisie than on the perception of a worldview which was common in his middle-class milieu.\n\nIn fact, though there have been many depictions of the petite bourgeoisie in literature as well as in cartoons, based on an image of their overly conventional practicality, the realities of the petite bourgeoisie throughout the 19th century were more complex. All the same, writers have been concerned with petite bourgeois morality and behavior and have portrayed them as undesirable characters. Henrik Ibsen's \"An Enemy of the People\" was a play written in direct response to the reception of another one of his plays for making \"indecent\" references to syphilis and in general his work was considered scandalous in its disregard for the morality of the period. Later, Bertolt Brecht's concern with Nazism and his Marxist politics (see above) got him interested in exploring the petite bourgeois mind and this interest led him to represent the petite bourgeoisie repeatedly throughout his work (one was even titled \"The Seven Deadly Sins of the Petite Bourgeoisie\").\n\nIn his book \"\", James C. Scott dedicates an entire chapter to describing some features of the petite bourgeoisie. First, he points out the contempt of this class by Marxists due to the ambiguity of their political position. He further points out that this position of contempt or distaste encompasses both the socialist bloc and large capitalist democracies due to the difficulty of monitoring, taxing and policing of this class which results from complexity, variety and mobility of activities taken on by this class. He points out the petite bourgeoisie has existed for most of civilized history and that even those who are not part of the class have to some degree desired to become small property owners due to the conferred autonomy and social standing. He continues that the desire to keep, restore land has been the leitmotif of most radically egalitarian mass movements. He argues that the petite bourgeoisie have an indispensable economic role in terms of invention and innovation, citing as an example software startups that develop ideas which are then usually bought by larger firms. He also points out that small shopkeepers provide several \"unpaid\" social services such as: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "32204428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32204428", "title": "Political violence", "text": "Political violence\n\nPolitical violence is violence perpetrated by people or governments to achieve political goals. It can describe violence used by a state against other states (war) or against non-state actors (e.g. police brutality, counter-insurgency, genocide). It can also describe politically-motivated violence by non-state actors against a state (e.g. rebellion, rioting) or against other non-state actors. Non-action on the part of a government can also be characterized as a form of political violence, such as refusing to alleviate famine or otherwise denying resources to politically identifiable groups within their territory. \n\nDue to the imbalances of power between state and non-state actors, political violence often takes the form of asynchronous warfare where neither side is able to directly assault the other, instead relying on tactics such as terrorism and guerrilla warfare, and often include attacks on civilian or otherwise non-combatant targets that are perceived as a proxy for the opposing faction.\n\nMany groups and individuals believe that their political systems will never respond to their demands and thus believe that violence is not only justified but also necessary in order to achieve their political objectives. Similarly, many governments around the world believe they need to use violence in order to intimidate their populace into acquiescence. At other times, governments use force in order to defend their country from outside invasion or other threats of force and to coerce other governments or conquer territory.\n\nPolitical violence varies widely in form, severity, and practice. In political science, a common organizing framework is to consider types of violence by the relevant actors: violence between non-state actors, one-sided violence perpetrated by a state actor against civilians, and violence between states.\n\nFighting between non-state actors without state security forces playing a direct role in the conflict.\nAn ethnic conflict is fought between ethnic groups. While at times a specific ethnic group may have the backing (whether formal or informal) of the state (or conversely, a specific ethnic group may be targeted by the state), ethnic conflict can also take place between two groups without the direct intervention of the state, or despite the state's attempts to mediate between groups.\n\nTerrorism can be directed by non-state actors against political targets other than the state (e.g. Stabbing attacks at gay pride parades in Jerusalem, Charlie Hebdo shooting). Because terrorism is a tactic often used by the weaker side of a conflict, it may also fall under violence between a state and non-state actor.\n\nWhile there lacks a concrete definition of terrorism, the United States Department of Defense however defines terrorism as, \"the calculated use of unlawful violence or threat of unlawful violence to inculcate fear; intended to coerce or to intimidate governments or societies in the pursuit of goals that are generally political, religious, or ideological.\" What is and is not considered terrorism is itself a controversial political question, as states have often used the label of terrorism to exclusively demonize the actions of their enemies while obscuring \"legal\" violence administered by the state (e.g. The Troubles, CPP–NPA–NDF rebellion, 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict).\n\nThe use of force by an organized armed group, be it a government or non-state group, which results in the deaths of civilians. According to the Human Security Report Project, a campaign of one-sided violence is recorded whenever violence against civilians committed by one group results in at least 25 reported deaths in a calendar year.\n\nOne form of political violence is genocide. Genocide is commonly defined as \"the deliberate and systematic destruction, in whole or in part, of an ethnic, racial, religious, or national group\", although what constitutes enough of a \"part\" to qualify as genocide has been subject to much debate by legal scholars. Genocide is typically carried out with either the overt or covert support of the governments of those countries where genocidal activities take place. The Holocaust is the most cited historical example of genocide.\n\nTorture is the act of inflicting severe pain (whether physical or psychological) as a means of punishment, revenge, forcing information or confession, or simply as an act of cruelty. Torture is prohibited under international law and the domestic laws of most countries in the 21st century. It is considered a human rights violation and is declared unacceptable by Article 5 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Signatories of the Third Geneva Convention and Fourth Geneva Convention have officially agreed not to torture prisoners in armed conflicts. National and international legal prohibitions on torture derive from a consensus that torture and similar ill-treatment are immoral, as well as impractical. Despite international conventions, torture cases continue to arise such as the 2004 Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse scandal committed by military police personnel of the United States Army. Organizations such as Amnesty International and the International Rehabilitation Council for Torture Victims monitor abuses of human rights and reports widespread violations of human torture in by states in many regions of the world. Amnesty International estimates that at least 81 world governments currently practice torture, some of them openly.\n\nCapital punishment is the sentence of death upon a person by the state as a punishment for an offense. This does not include extrajudicial killing, which is the killing of a person by governmental authorities without the sanction of any judicial proceeding or legal process. The use of capital punishment by country varies, but according to Amnesty International 58 countries still actively use the death penalty, and in 2010, 23 countries carried out executions and 67 imposed death sentences. Methods of execution in 2010 included beheading, electrocution, hanging, lethal injection and shooting. In 2007 the United Nations General Assembly passed the UN moratorium on the death penalty which called for worldwide abolition of the death penalty.\n\nPolice brutality is another form of political violence. It is most commonly described in juxtaposition with the term excessive force. Police brutality can be defined as \"a civil rights violation that occurs when a police officer acts with excessive force by using an amount of force with regards to a civilian that is more than necessary\". Police brutality and the use of excessive force are present throughout the world and in the United States alone, 4,861 incidences of police misconduct were reported during 2010 (see also Police brutality (United States)). Of these, there were 6,826 victims involved and 247 fatalities.\n\nFamine can be initiated or prolonged in order to deny resources, compel obedience, or to depopulate a region with a recalcitrant or untrusted populace.\n\nAt least one of the warring parties involved is the government of a state.\n\nA riot can be described as a violent disturbance by a group of individuals formed to protest perceived wrongs and/or injustice. These can range from poverty and inequality to unemployment and government oppression. They can manifest themselves in a number of ways but most commonly in the form of property damage. Riots are characterized by their lack of predictability and the anonymity of their participants. Both make it difficult for authorities to identify those participating.\n\nRiots have been analyzed in a number of ways but most recently in the context of the frustration-aggression model theory, expressing that the aggression seen in most riots is a direct result of a groups frustration with a particular aspect of their lives.Widespread and prolonged rioting can lead to and/or produce rebellion or revolution. There are also a number of different types of riots including but not limited to police riots, race riot, prison riots, and sport riot.\n\nAlso known as an intrastate war, a civil war is a war fought within the same state or country between organized groups. Less commonly, it can also be fought between two countries that have been created from one previously unified state. Often these conflicts involve one group wishing to take control of a region or expressing dissatisfaction with the government. There is typically a desire to overthrow the existing power or at least change some of their policies. In many cases, an outside power may intervene on behalf of one side if they share their ideology or condemn the methods/motives of their opponents.\n\nCounter-insurgency, another form of political violence, describes a spectrum of actions taken by the recognized government of a state to contain or quell an insurgency taken up against it. There are many different doctrines, theories, and tactics espoused regarding counter-insurgency that aim to protect the authority of the government and to reduce or eliminate the supplanting authority of the insurgents. Because it may be difficult or impossible to distinguish between an insurgent, a supporter of an insurgency who is a non-combatant, and entirely uninvolved members of the population, counter-insurgency operations have often rested on a confused, relativistic, or otherwise situational distinction between insurgents and non-combatants. Counter-insurgency operations are common during war, occupation and armed rebellions.\n\nWar is a state of organized, armed, and often prolonged conflict carried on between states, nations, or other parties typified by extreme aggression, social disruption, and usually high mortality. War should be understood as an actual, intentional and widespread armed conflict between political communities, and therefore is defined as a form of political violence. Three of the ten most costly wars, in terms of loss of life, have been waged in the last century: the death toll of World War II, estimated at more than 60 million, surpasses all other war death tolls by a factor of two. It is estimated that 378,000 people died due to war each year between 1985 and 1994.\n\nScholarship and data suggests that violence has declined. Since World War II, there has been a decline in battle deaths and since the Cold War, there has been a decline in conflict. Recently, scholars have started to question this long-held belief.\n\nSince World War II, there has been a decline in battle deaths and since the Cold War, there has been a decline in conflict. Between 1992 and 2005, violent conflict around the world dropped by 40 percent. In The Better Angels of Our Nature, Steven Pinker argues that this decline has not occurred over the past 60 years, but has been going on for over the past millennia.\n\nDatasets on political violence have shown similar trends.\n\nFor example, the Center for Systemic Peace finds that in the post-World War II era armed conflict was at its peak when the Soviet Union collapsed. From the 1990s to the early 2000s, the levels of armed conflict declined. Recently, armed conflict has begun to increase as political violence in the Middle East and Africa begins to increase.\n\nUppsala Conflict Data Program (UCDP), another project that collects armed conflict data, has found similar trends as well. UCDP defines armed conflict as conflict that involves the government of a state which \"results in at least 25 battle-related deaths in one calendar year.\"\n\nIn their overview of armed conflict, UCDP has found that the number of armed conflicts in the world has decreased since the end of the Cold War, yet, there has been some recent upward trends. In the past ten years, the UCDP has found an upward trend in the number of internationalized armed conflicts, \"a conflict between a government of a state and internal opposition groups with intervention from other states.\"\n\nRecently, the conventional wisdom that violent conflict has declined is being challenged. Scholars argue that the current data, focus on the number of battle deaths per country per year, are misleading.\n\nTanisha Fazal argues that wars have become less fatal because of medical advancements that help keep more people alive during wars. Therefore, the battle death threshold used by the UCDP and other organizations to determine cases of armed conflict is misleading. A conflict \"that produced 1,000 battle deaths in 1820 will likely produce many fewer overall casualties (where casualties, properly understood, include the dead and wounded) than a conflict with 1,000 battle deaths today.\" The current data makes it seem like, war is becoming less frequent, when it is not.\n\nBear F. Braumoeller argues that looking at data on per-capita death is a \"misleading and irrelevant statistic\" because it does not tell us how wars actually happen. A decrease in battle-related deaths can mean that population growth is outpacing war deaths or that \"fewer people are exposed to risk of death from war\". Instead, we should examine the willingness of a state to go to war. Braumoeller creates a new metric for conflicted called the \"use of force\", which is the number of militarized dispute that reaches at least a level 4 on the 5-point Correlates of War Militarized Interstate Dispute scale. He finds that use of force has held steady from the 1800s through the First World War, but after World War I the use of force has steadily increased. Braumoeller creates another metric called \"uses of force per relevant dyad\", which is the use of force between neighboring states or states with one major power. Using this metric he finds that there is no downward trend in the rates of conflict initiation since the post-World War II period. Additionally, he finds that the rates of conflict have remain steady over the past two hundred years and the slight increases and decreases in use of force are random.\n\nIn 2014, UCDP estimates that 126,059 people were killed in organized violence, which is the highest fatality count in the post-Cold War period. Syria had the most violent conflict followed by Iraq and Afghanistan. Additionally, there were 40 armed conflicts active in 27 locations in the world. This is the largest number of conflicts reported since 1999.\n\nRegionally, Asia had the largest amount of violent conflict at 14, followed by Africa at 12, Europe at six, Middle East at six, and the Americas at two.\n\nDuring that year, four new conflicts began, all of them in Ukraine. Three conflicts were restarted by new actors in  Egypt, Lebanon, and Libya. Additionally, six conflicts were restarted by previously registered actors in \"Azerbaijan (Nagorno-Karabakh), India (Garoland), India–Pakistan, Israel (Palestine), Mali (Azawad), and Myanmar (Kokang)\". Finally, seven conflicts in 2013 were no longer active in 2014. The conflicts were in Central African Republic, Ethiopia (Oromiya), Malaysia (Sabah), Myanmar (Karen), Myanmar (Shan), Mozambique, and Turkey (Kurdistan).\n\nOut of the 40 conflicts, 11 have been classified at the level of war, which means that there were at least 1,000 deaths in one calendar year. The conflict between India and Pakistan was the only interstate conflict, conflict between two or more states. Out of the remaining 39 conflicts, 13 were internationalized, a conflict between a government and internal opposition group where other states intervene. The percentage of internationalized conflict is 33% (13/39), which is the largest proportion of external actors in intrastate conflicts since the post-World War II era.\n\nJust like armed conflict, there was an increase in fatalities associated with terrorism. In 2014, the United States State Department reported 13,463 terrorist attacks in the world. These attacks resulted in at least 32,700 deaths and 34,700 injuries. In addition, more than 9,400 people were kidnapped or taken hostage. Compared to 2013, the number of terrorist attacks increased by 35% and the total fatalities increased by 81%.\n\nIn 2014, the five countries that experienced the most terrorist attacks were Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan, India, and Nigeria. In 2013, Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan, India, and the Philippines were the countries that experienced the most terrorist attacks.\n\nIn 2013 and 2014, the perpetrators responsible for the most terrorist attacks were ISIS, the Taliban, al-Shabaab, Boko Haram, and Maoists. Fifty-five percent of the targets were either private citizens, private property, or police. 66% of attacks in Nigeria and 41% of attacks in Iraq targeted private citizens and property.\n\nThe Global Terrorism Database estimates that  that between 2004 and 2013, about 50% of all terrorist attacks, and 60% of fatalities due to terrorist attacks, took place in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan.\n\nTheories of political violence can be organized by their level of analysis: \n\nSocial conflict theory is a Marxist-based social theory which states that social systems reflect the vested interests of those who own and control resources. The people in power use the political and economic institutions to exploit groups with less power. This causes the rest of society to become alienated or psychologically separated from the people in power. Revolutions occur to break down the social and economic separation between the people in power and the exploited people and \"to achieve equity and social unity\".\n\nWar's inefficiency puzzle explains why states go to war even though war is costly. In James Fearon’s \"Rationalist Explanations for War\", he asserts war is costly and that creates an incentive to bargain with the other side. However, states do not bargain and instead go to war because of private information on the capability to fight and the incentives to misrepresent this information.\n\nFunctionalism sees society as \"an organism whose entire system has to be in good working order for systemic equilibrium to be maintained.\" However, when there is an unexpected shock to the system, society becomes disorientated allowing for collective violence.\n\nMass society argues that violent social movements come from people who are isolated socially and from political institutions. People who are alienated are easily convinced to join radical or extremist movements.\n\nResource mobilization is a theory on social movement that emphasizes the capacity of competing groups to organize and use adequate resources to achieve their goals. The resources can be time, money, organizational skills, and certain social or political opportunities. Political violence occurs when individuals are able to mobilize sufficient resources to take action.\n\nPrimordialism is an explanation of ethnic violence and ethnic conflict. \"Interethnic differences based on racial, language, religious, regional characteristics, and other visible markers produce interethnic conflicts because members of that same group emotionally identify with their in-group, but feel no such identify with those outside their ethnic group.\"  \n\nInstrumentalism is an explanation of ethnic violence and ethnic conflict. Ethnicity is not inherent in human nature. Conflict occurs when leaders manipulate ethnicity for the sake of political power or economic gain.\n\nConstructivist is an explanations of ethnic violence and ethnic conflict. Ethnic and national identities are socially constructed and are formed through social, economic and political processes, like colonization and conquest. Ethnic conflict is a product of the factors shaping ethnic identity and not from ethnicity itself.\n\nA youth bulge occurs when there is disproportionate percentage of a state population being between the ages of 15 and 24 years old. It occurs when infant mortality rates decrease and fertility rate increase. This youth bulge increases the working-age population; however, it does not translate to more jobs being available, which leads to severe unemployment. This will cause the young adult male population to \"prolong dependency on parents, diminish self-esteem and fuel frustrations\". This leads the youth to \"seek social and economic advancement by alternative, extralegal means\", which means that the opportunity costs to join armed movements are low.\n\nRational choice theory is a decision-making approach in which the decisions makers compare the expected utility of competing options and select the option that produces the most favorable outcome. Political violence occurs when the benefits in participating in political violence outweighs the costs.\n\nIn \"Why Men Rebel\", Ted Robert Gurr uses relative deprivation theory to explain why men commit acts of violence. As Gurr explains, relative deprivation \"is defined as actors' perception of discrepancy between their value expectations and their value capabilities.\" In other words, relative deprivation is the gap between the wants and needs we feel we deserve versus what we are capable of \"getting and keeping.\" The collective discontent, the gap between the expected and achieved welfare, leads people to resort to violence.\n\nCollective action theory explains why people participate in rebellions. A person decides to participate or not participate in a rebellion based on the benefits and costs. Generally, people decide to be free riders and not to participate in the rebellion. These people will still receive the benefits of the rebellion since the benefits are a public good. However, if people are expected to receive private goods, like material rewards or power, then that person is expected to rebel.\n\nGreed versus grievance provides two lines of explanations as to why individuals will fight. Individuals are said to be motivated by greed when they decide to join a conflict in an effort to better their situation and find that benefits of joining a rebellion or any kind of collective violence is greater than not joining. Individuals are said to be motivated by grievance when they fight over \"high inequality, a lack of political rights or ethnic and religious divisions in society.\" In \"Greed and Grievance in Civil War\", Paul Collier and Anke Hoeffler argue that greed is a better predictor of participating in violence than grievance.\n\nIn the aftermath of political violence, there are many changes that occur within the state, society, and the individual.\n\nSocial science literature that examines how political violence affects the region, state, nation, and society.\n\nCharles Tilly argues that \"war making\", eliminating rivals outside a territory, \"state making\", eliminating rivals within a territory, \"protection\", protecting subjects within a territory, and \"extraction\", extracting resources to \"[carry] out the first three activities\", are what defines a state. All four actives depend on the state's ability to use and monopolize violence. In other words, politically and non-politically motivated violence is necessary in state-building and building fiscal capacity.\n\nThere are a growing number of social science studies that examine how political violence affects individuals and households. It is important to keep in mind that what happens at the individual and household level can affect what happens at the macro level. For example, political violence effects an individual's income, health, and education attainment, but these individual consequences combined can effect a state or nation's economic growth. In other words, the macro and micro consequences of political violence do not occur in a vacuum.\n\nThere are empirical studies that link violence with increases in political participation. One natural experiment examines the effect of being abducted by Joseph Kony's LRA on political participation. An abducted male Ugandan youth, or in other words a former child soldier, had a greater probability of voting for Uganda's 2005 referendum and being a community mobilizer/leader than a male Ugandan youth who wasn't abducted.\n\nHowever, this effect is not just contained to Uganda. Another natural experiment on the effects of the Sierra Leone civil war found that victimized households, household whose members were killed, injured, maimed, captured, or made refugees, were more likely to register to vote, attend community meetings, and participate in local political and community groups than households that did not experience violence.\n\nA study on the effects of the Sierra Leone civil war found that victimized households, household whose members were killed, injured, maimed, captured, or displaced, did not have long-term impacts on owning assets, child nutrition, consumption expenditures and earnings.\n\nThe Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project (ACLED) is a project that collates data on political violence and protest in developing states, from 1997 to the present. As of early 2016, ACLED has recorded over 100,000 individual events, with ongoing data collection focused on Africa and ten countries in South and Southeast Asia. The data can be used for medium- and long-term analysis and mapping of political violence across developing countries through use of historical data from 1997, as well as informing humanitarian and development work in crisis and conflict-affected contexts through real time data updates and reports.\n\nACLED defines \"political violence\" as \"the use of force by a group with a political purpose or motivation.\" The database uses this definition to catalog a number of what it refers to as political events across Africa and South East Asia. Political events are described as \"a single altercation where often force is used by one or more groups for a political end. The data project catalogs nine different types of events.\n\nThe Human Security Report Project or HSRP catalogs global and regional trends in organized violence, their causes and consequences. Research findings and analyses are published in the Human Security Report, Human Security Brief series, and the miniAtlas of Human Security based in Vancouver, Canada.\n\nUsing data from the Uppsala Conflict Data Program, the report tracks 5 types of violence \none of the warring parties is the government of a state.\nInterstate Conflicts are conflicts between two states. \nIntrastate Conflicts happen within a state such as a civil war. \nneither of which is the government of a state\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "229661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229661", "title": "Pseudophilosophy", "text": "Pseudophilosophy\n\nPseudophilosophy is a term, often considered derogatory, applied to criticize philosophical ideas or systems which are claimed not to meet an expected set of standards. The etymology of the term is based on appending the prefix pseudo- (\"false\") to the word philosophy (\"love of wisdom\"); another term to describe false philosophy is \"cod philosophy\".\n\nThe term has been used against many different targets, including:\n\nAccording to Christopher Heumann, an 18th-century scholar, pseudo-philosophy has six characteristics:\n\nAccording to Michael Oakeshott, pseudo-philosophy \"is theorizing that proceeds partly within and partly outside a given mode of inquiry.\"\n\nPieper notes that there cannot be a closed system of philosophy, and that any philosophy that claims to have discovered a \"cosmic formula\" is a pseudo-philosophy. In this he follows Kant, who rejected the postulation of a \"highest principle\" from which to develop Transcendental idealism, calling this pseudo-philosophy and mysticism.\n\nNicholas Rescher, in \"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\", describes \"pseudo-philosophy\" as \"deliberations that masquerade as philosophical but are inept, incompetent, deficient in intellectual seriousness, and reflective of an insufficient commitment to the pursuit of truth.\" Rescher adds that the term is particularly appropriate when applied to \"those who use the resources of reason to substantiate the claim that rationality is unachievable in matters of inquiry.\"\n\nAccording to Pieper, for Pythagoras, Plato and Aristotle philosophy is the human search \"oriented toward wisdom such as God possesses\". It suggests that philosophy includes, in its essence, an orientation toward theology. Pieper notes:\nThe term \"pseudo-philosophy\" appears to have been coined by Jane Austen.\n\nErnest Newman (30 November 1868 – 7 July 1959), an English music critic and musicologist, who aimed at intellectual objectivity in his style of criticism, in contrast to the more subjective approach of other critics, published in 1897 \"Pseudo-Philosophy at the End of the Nineteenth Century\", a critique of imprecise and subjective writing.\n\nThe term is almost always used pejoratively and is often contentious.\n\nAccording to Bunge,\nFor Kant, intellectual knowledge is discursive knowledge, not intuitive knowledge. According to Kant, intuition is limited to the realm of senses, while knowledge is \"essentially realised in the acts of researching, relating, comparing, differentiating, inferring, proving\". Kant criticised Romantic philosophy, which is based on feeling and intuition, and not on \"philosophical work\":\nKant called Romantic philosophy pseudo-philosophy, \"in which one is entitled not to work, but only to heed and enjoy the oracle in oneself in order to take complete possession of that wisdom toward which philosophy aims\".\n\nMysticism has a long history. In the Age of Enlightenment mysticism had fallen into disrepute. Kant called mysticism pseudophilosophy. In the 19th century, with the rise of Romanticism, interest in mysticism was renewed. Rationalists and Lutherans wrote histories of mysticism to reject its claims, but there was a widespread interest in spiritualism and related phenomena.\n\nInterest in Eckhart's works was revived in the early nineteenth century, especially by German Romantics and Idealist philosophers. Since the 1960s debate has been going on in Germany whether Eckhart should be called a \"mystic\". The philosopher Karl Albert had already argued that Eckhart had to be placed in the tradition of philosophical mysticism of Parmenides, Plato, Plotinus, Porphyry, Proclus and other neo-Platonistic thinkers. Heribert Fischer argued in the 1960s that Eckhart was a mediaeval theologian.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer wrote the following about Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel:\nHowever his opinion is not widely held of Hegelianism or German Idealism.\n\nSoccio notes that analytical inclined philosophers tend to dismiss Heidegger's philosophy as pseudophilosophy. According to Christensen, Heidegger himself called the philosophy of Husserl \"scheinphilosophy\".\n\nDietrich von Hildebrand used the term to critique the central place modern science is occupying in western society:\n\nJonathan Chait used the term in the title \"Ayn Rand's Pseudo-Philosophy\" of an article in \"New Republic\", in which he wrote, \"She was a true amateur who insisted on seeing herself as the greatest human being who ever lived because she was almost completely unfamiliar with the entire philosophical canon.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41209942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41209942", "title": "Pāguññatā", "text": "Pāguññatā\n\nPāguññatā (Pali) is a Buddhist term translated as \"proficiency\", and it is the basis for the following pair of mental factors within the Theravada Abhidharma teachings:\n\nThese two mental factors have the characteristic of healthiness of the mental body and consciousness, respectively.\n\nBhikkhu Bodhi states:\n\nNina van Gorkom explains:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11222888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11222888", "title": "Religio licita", "text": "Religio licita\n\nReligio licita (\"permitted religion,\" also translated as \"approved religion\") is a phrase used in the \"Apologeticum\" of Tertullian to describe the special status of the Jews in the Roman Empire. It was not an official term in Roman law.\n\nAlthough it occurs in only one patristic text and in no classical Roman sources or inscriptions, the phrase has spawned abundant scholarly conjecture on its possible significance. Some scholars have gone so far as to imagine that all religions under the Empire had a legal status as either \"licita\" or \"illicita\", despite the absence of any ancient texts referring to these categories. The most extreme view has held that Tertullian's phrase means all foreign religions required a license from the Roman government. But it was Roman custom to permit or even encourage the subject peoples of the provinces and foreign communities in Rome to maintain their ancestral religion, unless specific practices were regarded as disruptive or subversive: \"A \"religio\" was \"licita\" for a particular group on the basis of tribe or nationality and traditional practices, coupled with the proviso that its rites were not offensive to the Roman people or its gods.\"\n\nTertullian uses the phrase in a passage arguing that Christians should be granted the same freedom to practice their religion as any other inhabitant of the Empire; the passage itself, and not the phrase \"religio licita\", is evidence of the general tolerance afforded under the Roman system of religion.\n\n\"Religio licita\" has sometimes been taken as a formal recognition or charter originating with Julius Caesar and embodied by various pieces of Roman legislation pertaining to the Jews, conceived of as a coherent policy. In fact, the various privileges and exemptions granted to the Jews were responses to specific complaints or requests, made in the context of the traditional patronage network, and had nothing to do with a supposed \"religio licita\" status. To the extent that the Romans respected Judaism, it was because of the religion's great antiquity, ancestral tradition being regarded as a source of social and political stability.\n\nIt has been observed that \"Roman magistrates treated the Jews the way they did not because they were consciously tolerant, but simply because they had no reason to hinder the free exercise of Jewish religious practices.\"\n\nSome scholars have argued that Christianity was declared a \"religio illicita\" (an impermissible or illegitimate religion) by Domitian in the 80s AD. Though this term appears nowhere, it has been conjectured that a declaration of Christianity as \"illicita\" was the legal basis for official persecutions. There was, however, \"no law, either existing section of criminal law, or special legislation directed against the Christians, under which Christians were prosecuted in the first two centuries.\" Rome lacked a uniform policy or legal code pertaining to foreign cults, and before Christian hegemony in the 4th century, there was no legal language to designate a concept analogous to \"heresy\" or crimes against orthodox religion.\n\nUnder Constantine the Great, Christianity and other religions became tolerated with the Edict of Milan in 313. Toleration did not extend to religions that practiced human sacrifice, such as Druidism. This state of affairs lasted until 380, when Nicene Christianity was adopted as the state religion of the Roman Empire, after which time persecution of non-Christian and non-Nicene cults began. Priscillian was executed for heresy in 385, and Theodosius I began outlawing Rome's traditional religious rituals in 391.\n\n"}
{"id": "43725144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43725144", "title": "Seeblatt", "text": "Seeblatt\n\nThis charge is used in the heraldry of Germany, the Netherlands and Scandinavia, but not so much in France and Britain. Seeblätter feature prominently on the coat of arms of Denmark as well as on Danish coins.\n\nIn West Frisian, the term \"pompeblêd\" is used. The name is used to indicate the seven red lily leaf-shaped blades on the Frisian flag. The seven red \"pompeblêden\" (leaves of the yellow water lily and the European white waterlily) refer to the medieval Frisian 'sea districts': more ore less autonomous regions along the Southern North Sea coast from the city of Alkmaar to the Weser River. There never have been exactly seven of these administrative units, the number of seven bears the suggestion of 'a lot'. Late mediaeval sources identify seven Frisian districts, though with different names. The most important regions were West Friesland, Westergo, Oostergo, Hunsingo, Fivelingo, Reiderland, Emsingo, Brokmerland, Harlingerland and Rüstringen (Jeverland and Butjadingen).\n\n"}
{"id": "20539698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20539698", "title": "Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984", "text": "Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984\n\nThe Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984 (or SCPA) is an act of the US Congress that makes the layouts of integrated circuits legally protected upon registration, and hence illegal to copy without permission.\n\nPrior to 1984, it was not necessarily illegal to produce a competing chip with an identical layout. As the legislative history for the SCPA explained, patent and copyright protection for chip layouts, chip \"topographies\", was largely unavailable. This led to considerable complaint by U.S. chip manufacturers—notably, Intel, which, along with the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA), took the lead in seeking remedial legislation—against what they termed \"chip piracy.\" During the hearings that led to enactment of the SCPA, chip industry representatives asserted that a pirate could for $10,000 copy a chip design that had cost its original manufacturer upwards of $100,000 to design.\n\nIn 1984 the United States enacted the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984 (the \"SCPA\") to protect the topography of semiconductor chips. The SCPA is found in title 17, U.S. Code, sections 901-914 (17 U.S.C. §§ 901-914).\n\nJapan and European Community (EC) countries soon followed suit and enacted their own, similar laws protecting the topography of semiconductor chips.\n\nChip topographies are also protected by TRIPS, an international treaty.\n\nAlthough the U.S. SCPA is codified in title 17 (copyrights), the SCPA is not a copyright or patent law. Rather, it is a \"sui generis\" law resembling a utility model law or \"Gebrauchsmuster\". It has some aspects of copyright law, some aspects of patent law, and in some ways, it is completely different from either. From \"Brooktree\", ¶ 23: \n\nThe Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984 was an innovative solution to this new problem of technology-based industry. While some copyright principles underlie the law, as do some attributes of patent law, the Act was uniquely adapted to semiconductor mask works, in order to achieve appropriate protection for original designs while meeting the competitive needs of the industry and serving the public interest. \n\nIn general, the chip topography laws of other nations are also \"sui generis\" laws. Nevertheless, copyright and patent case law illuminate many aspects of the SCPA and its interpretation.\n\nChip protection is acquired under the SCPA by filing with the US Copyright Office an application for \"mask work\" registration under the SCPA, together with a filing fee. The application must be accompanied by identifying material, such as pictorial representations of the IC layers so that in the event of infringement litigation, it can be determined what the registration covers. Protection continues for ten years from the date of registration.\n\nThe SCPA repeatedly refers to \"mask works.\" The term is a relic of the original form of the bill that became the SCPA and was passed in the Senate as an amendment to the Copyright Act. The term mask work is parallel to and consistent with the terminology of the 1976 Copyright Act, which introduced the concept of \"literary works,\" \"pictorial works,\" \"audiovisual works,\" and the like and protected physical embodiments of such works, such as books, paintings, video game cassettes, and the like against unauthorized copying and distribution. The terminology became unnecessary when the House of Representatives insisted on the substitution of a \"sui generis\" bill, but the SCPA as enacted still continued its use. The term \"mask work\" is not limited to actual masks used in chip manufacture but is defined broadly in the SCPA to include the topographic creation embodied in the masks and chips. Moreover, the SCPA protects any physical embodiment of a mask work.\n\nThe owner of mask work rights may pursue an alleged infringer (\"chip pirate\") by bringing an action for mask work infringement in federal district court. The remedies available correspond generally to those of copyright law and patent law.\n\nThe SCPA does not protect functional aspects of chip designs, which is reserved to patent law. Although EPROM and other memory chips topographies are protectable under the SCPA, such protection does not extend to the information stored in chips, such as computer programs. Such information is protected, if at all, only by copyright law.\n\nThe SCPA permits competitive emulation of a chip by means of reverse engineering. The ordinary test for illegal copying (mask work infringement) is the \"substantial similarity\" test of copyright law, but when the defense of reverse engineering is involved and supported by probative evidence (usually, the so-called paper trail of design and development work), the similarity must be greater. Then, the accused chip topography must be substantially identical (truly copied by rote, so-called slavish copying) rather than just substantially similar for the defendant to be liable for infringement. Most world chip topography protection laws provide for a reverse engineering privilege.\n\n"}
{"id": "5075898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5075898", "title": "Shrinking space", "text": "Shrinking space\n\nIn mathematics, in the field of topology, a topological space is said to be a shrinking space if every open cover admits a shrinking. A \"shrinking\" of an open cover is another open cover indexed by the same indexing set, with the property that the closure of each open set in the shrinking lies inside the corresponding original open set.\n\nThe following facts are known about shrinking spaces:\n\n\nThese facts are particularly important because shrinking of open covers is a common technique in the theory of differential manifolds and while constructing functions using a partition of unity.\n\n"}
{"id": "1268839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1268839", "title": "Skew-T log-P diagram", "text": "Skew-T log-P diagram\n\nA skew-T log-P diagram is one of four thermodynamic diagrams commonly used in weather analysis and forecasting. In 1947, N. Herlofson proposed a modification to the emagram that allows straight, horizontal isobars and provides for a large angle between isotherms and dry adiabats, similar to that in the tephigram. It was thus more suitable for some of the newer analysis techniques being invented by the United States Air Force.\n\nSuch a diagram has pressure plotted on the vertical axis, with a logarithmic scale (thus the \"log-P\" part of the name), and the temperature plotted skewed, with isothermal lines at 45° to the plot (thus the \"skew-T\" part of the name). Plotting a hypothetical set of measurements with constant temperature for all altitudes would result in a line angled 45° to the right. In practice, since temperature usually drops with altitude, the graphs are usually mostly vertical (see examples linked to below).\n\nThe major use for skew-T log-P diagrams is the plotting of radiosonde soundings, which give a vertical profile of the temperature and dew point temperature throughout the troposphere and lower stratosphere. The isopleths on the diagram can then be used to simplify many tedious calculations involved, which were previously performed by hand or not at all. Many skew-T log-P diagrams also include a vertical representation of the wind speed and direction using wind barbs. Important atmospheric characteristics such as saturation, atmospheric instability, and wind shear are critical in severe weather forecasting, by which skew-T log-P diagrams allow quick visual analysis. The diagrams are widely used by glider pilots to forecast the strength of thermals and the height of the base of the associated cumulus clouds.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43943201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43943201", "title": "Steve Adler (lawyer)", "text": "Steve Adler (lawyer)\n\nStephen Ira Adler (born March 23, 1956) is an American lawyer and Democratic politician who is the Mayor of Austin, Texas, since January 6, 2015.\n\nAdler has been a practicing attorney in Austin in the areas of eminent domain and civil rights law for 35 years. For eight years he worked as the chief of staff and later general counsel to Democratic State Senator Eliot Shapleigh in the Texas Legislature. He has also worked with or board chaired Austin-based nonprofits and civic organizations, including the Texas Tribune, Anti-Defamation League, GEN-Austin, Breakthrough Austin, and Ballet Austin.\n\nSteve Adler was born to a Jewish family and first lived in Washington, DC and grew up in Kensington, Maryland. His father was a World War II veteran with the U.S. Navy who later became a film editor with CBS News. His mother was a homemaker.\n\nIn 1978, he graduated from Princeton University with a B.A from the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. He then attended the University of Texas at Austin School of Law and received his juris doctorate in 1982. After graduating from University of Texas, Adler remained in Austin to practice law.\n\nIn the mid 1980s, Steve Adler co-founded the Barron, Graham & Adler LLP law firm, later Barron & Adler, LLP. He represented primarily landowners who were dealing with eminent domain and condemnation cases where the government or a private company seek to acquire their property. In addition to this practice, Adler spent most of the 1980s, his early legal career, doing civil rights employment discrimination cases. This work included representing women as well as Hispanic, African American and other minority workers in federal court, before the Equal Employment and Opportunity Commission and on matters filed with the Austin Human Rights Commission. He represented clients seeking equal treatment and opportunity in the workplace, redress from sexual harassment and denial of equal pay for equal work.\n\nAdler has argued before state appellate courts, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and the Texas Supreme Court and was named a Texas Super Lawyer from 2007-2013 and one of the Best Lawyers in America in 2007-2014.\n\nAdler has been involved in a number of community organizations in the Greater Austin region. In 2010, he joined the board of GENaustin (formerly Girls Empowerment Network), an organization that provides education and mentoring to middle school girls in local school districts to help them make good choices.\n\nFrom 2009-2012, Adler served as the board chair of the Anti-Defamation League Austin Region where he contributed to the creation of the Austin Hate Crimes Task Force and expanding the No Place for Hate anti-bullying program from just a few schools to over 300 schools throughout Central Texas.\nSteve Adler has served on the Ballet Austin board since the late 1990s and he has supported the organizations work to provide community access to arts, and the creation of new works, including collaborations with organizations in other major cities in the United States and abroad.\n\nAdler was on the founding board of directors for the Texas Tribune in 2009. He was later appointed board chair, a role he resigned from in January 2014 in order to launch his run for Austin mayor.\n\nIn 1996, Steve Adler assisted El Paso Democrat Eliot Shapleigh in his run for Texas State Senate. He then served as Senator Shapleigh's chief of staff and later general counsel from 1997-2005.\n\nDuring Adler's time working in the Texas Senate, he primarily focused on fairness in school funding formulas, teachers' salary issues, state budget policy, environmental protection, and equity and access issues.\n\nSteve Adler began his campaign in January 2014 for Austin Mayor and ran on a platform of reforming governance at the Austin City Council. His primary issues included governance, traffic congestion, education, affordability, environment and water, and neighborhoods. Adler entered into a run-off with City Council Member Mike Martinez in November after both candidates failed to get a majority of votes. Adler won the run-off in December 16, 2014 with 67% percent of the total vote. Adler is the city's second Jewish mayor; the first was Jeffrey Friedman, who was elected in 1975.\n\nAdler is the first mayor to serve as part of the \"10-1\" City Council system that was approved via referendum by voters during the 2012 election and implemented after the 2014 election.\n\nPreviously, the Austin City Council was composed of six at-large Council members and a mayor. The new system is composed of ten Council members representing geographic districts and the mayor. \n\nThe push to move to the geographic districts was prompted by Austin's dramatic population growth as well as a recognition that the former system often resulted in an underrepresentation of Austin's minority communities, particularly its rapidly growing Latino population. For years, the city's political establishment had abided by an unwritten \"gentleman's agreement\" that reserved one Council seat for a Latino and one for an African American.\n\nIn March, 2015, Adler denounced an anonymous group's attempt to inflame discussion of gentrification in historically black neighborhoods of East Austin by placing stickers on the doors of East Side businesses that proclaimed them off-limits to non-whites.\n\n\"This is an appalling and offensive display of ignorance in our city,\" said Adler. \"Our city is a place where respect for all people is a part of our spirit and soul. We will keep it that way.\"\n\nAdler has been a proponent of the Office of Equity. Following a six-month search, Brion Oaks was selected September 2016 as the City's first Chief Equity Officer.\n\nIn May 2017, when the Alamo Drafthouse Cinema in Austin announced that it would hold a women-only screening of the movie \"Wonder Woman\", one man wrote Mayor Adler an angry email about allowing the event to take place, in which he urged the boycott of Austin and called women \"the second rate gender\". Adler's response, in which he warned the writer that his email account had been \"hacked by ... an unusually hostile individual\", and listed women's accomplishments, drew national attention.\n\nIn 2016, Adler and the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development declared that significant progress had been made to house homeless veterans. Despite progress in the area of veterans, work remains to be done to further reduce homelessness and associated drug use. During the summer of 2016, several people were hospitalized during an outbreak of K2 overdoses around the Austin Resource Center for the Homeless.\n\nAdler won reelection in 2018, garnering 59% of the vote in a 7-way race.\n\n"}
{"id": "2841656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2841656", "title": "Stroke ratio", "text": "Stroke ratio\n\nIn a reciprocating piston engine, the stroke ratio, defined by either bore/stroke ratio or stroke/bore ratio, is a term to describe the ratio between cylinder bore diameter and piston stroke. This can be used for either an internal combustion engine, where the fuel is burned within the cylinders of the engine, or external combustion engine, such as a steam engine, where the combustion of the fuel takes place \"outside\" the working cylinders of the engine.\n\nA fairly comprehensive yet understandable study of stroke/bore effects was published in \"Horseless Age\", 1916.\n\nIn a piston engine, there are two different ways of describing the \"stroke ratio\" of its cylinders, namely: \"bore/stroke\" ratio, and \"stroke/bore\" ratio.\n\nBore/stroke is the more commonly used term, with usage in North America, Europe, United Kingdom, Asia, and Australia.\n\nThe diameter of the cylinder bore is divided by the length of the piston stroke to give the ratio.\n\nThe following terms describe the naming conventions for the configurations of the various bore/stroke ratio:\n\nA square engine has equal bore \"and\" stroke dimensions, giving a bore/stroke value of exactly 1:1.\n\n1967 – FIAT 125, 124Sport engine 125A000-90 hp, 125B000-100 hp, 125BC000-110 hp, 1608 ccm, DOHC, bore and stroke.\n\n1970 – Ford 400M had a bore and stroke.\n\n1973 – Kawasaki Z1 and KZ(Z)900 had a bore and stroke.\n\n1973 – British Leyland's Australian division created a 4.4-litre version of the Rover V8 engine, with bore and stroke both measuring 88.9 mm. This engine was exclusively used in the Leyland P76.\n\n1982 - Honda Nighthawk 250 and Honda CMX250C Rebel have a bore and stroke, making it a square engine.\n\n1983 – Mazda FE 2.0L inline four-cylinder engine with a perfectly squared bore and stroke. This engine also features the ideal 1.75:1 rod/stroke ratio.\n\n1987 – The Opel/Vauxhaul 2.0 L GM Family II engines are square at bore and stroke; example as C20XE C20NE C20LET X20A X20XEV X20XER Z20LET Z20LEH Z20LER A20NHT A20NFT.\n\n1989 – Nissan's SR20DE is a square engine, with an bore and stroke.\n\n1990–2010 Saab B234/B235 is a square engine, with a bore and stroke.\n\n1991 – Ford's 4.6 V8 OHC engine has a bore and stroke. It has been the backbone of Ford V8-powered cars and trucks in different power levels and head designs for two decades.\n\n1995 – The BMW M52 engine with a displacement of 2793 cubic centimeters is an example of a perfect square engine with an bore and stroke.\n\n1996 – Jaguar's AJ-V8 engine in 4.0-litre form has an 86.0 mm bore and stroke.\n\n2000 – Mercedes-Benz 4.0-litre () OM628 V8 diesel engine is an example of a square engine – with an bore and stroke.\n\nThe Volkswagen Group's 2005 W16 engine as used in the Bugatti Veyron also using a bore and stroke.\n\nThe Peugeot XU10 engine line – with a displacement of 1998 cubic centimeters – is an example of a perfect square engine with an bore and stroke.\n\nToyota's 2JZ and 4U are square engines, with bore and stroke.\n\nHonda's J30A engine has an bore and stroke.\n\nAn engine is described as oversquare or short-stroke if its cylinders have a greater bore diameter than its stroke length, giving a bore/stroke ratio greater than 1:1.\n\nAn oversquare engine allows for more and larger valves in the head of the cylinder, higher possible rpm by lowering maximum piston ring speed and lower crank stress due to the lower peak piston acceleration for the same engine speed. Due to the increased piston and head surface area, the heat loss increases as the bore/stroke ratio is increased. Thus an excessively high ratio can lead to a decreased thermal efficiency compared to other engine geometries. Because these characteristics favor higher engine speeds, oversquare engines are often tuned to develop peak torque at a relatively high speed. The large size/width of the combustion chamber at ignition can cause increased inhomogeneity in the air/fuel mixture during combustion, resulting in higher emissions.\n\nThe reduced stroke length allows for a shorter cylinder and sometimes a shorter connecting rod, generally making oversquare engines less tall but wider than undersquare engines of similar engine displacement.\n\nOversquare engines (a.k.a. \"short stroke engines\") are very common, as they allow higher rpm (and thus more power), without excessive piston speed.\n\nExamples include both Chevrolet and Ford small-block V8s. The BMW N45 gasoline engine has a bore/stroke ratio of 1.167.\n\nHorizontally opposed, also known as \"Boxer\" or \"flat\", engines typically feature oversquare designs since any increase in stroke length would result in twice the increase in overall engine width. This is particularly so in Subaru’s front-engine layout, where the steering angle of the front wheels is constrained by the width of the engine. Although oversquare engines have a reputation for being high-strung, low-torque machines, the Subaru EJ181 engine develops peak torque at speeds as low as 3200 rpm.\n\nNissan's SR16VE engine found in Nissan Pulsar VZ-R and VZ-R N1 is an oversquare engine with bore and stroke, giving it an impressive but relatively small torque of \n\nExtreme oversquare engines are found in Formula One racing cars, where strict rules limit displacement, thereby necessitating that power be achieved through high engine speeds. Stroke ratios approaching 2.5:1 are allowed, enabling engine speeds of 18,000 rpm while remaining reliable for multiple races.\n\nThe Ducati Panigale motorcycle engine is massively oversquare with a bore/stroke ratio of 1.84:1. It was given the name \"SuperQuadro\" by Ducati, roughly translated as \"super-square\" from Italian.\n\nThe side-valve Belgian D-Motor LF26 aero-engine has a bore/stroke ratio of 1.4:1.\n\nEarly Mercedes-Benz M116 engines had a bore and a stroke for a 3.5 litre V8.\n\nAn engine is described as undersquare or long-stroke if its cylinders have a smaller bore (width, diameter) than its stroke (length of piston travel) - giving a ratio value of less than 1:1.\n\nAt a given engine speed, a longer stroke increases engine friction and increases stress on the crankshaft due to the higher peak piston acceleration. The smaller bore also reduces the area available for valves in the cylinder head, requiring them to be smaller or fewer in number.\n\nUndersquare engines exhibit peak torque at lower rpm than an oversquare engine due to their longer crank throw and high piston speed.\n\nUndersquare engines have become more common lately, as manufacturers push for more and more efficient engines and higher fuel economy. Undersquare engines have a higher volume/surface area ratio, leading to reduced heat loss and higher BSFC.\n\nMany inline engines, particularly those mounted transversely in front-wheel-drive cars, utilize an undersquare design. The smaller bore allows for a shorter engine that increases room available for the front wheels to steer. Examples of this include many Volkswagen, Nissan, Honda, and Mazda engines. The 1KR-FE-engine used in the Toyota Aygo, Citroën C1 and Peugeot 107 amongst others is an example of a modern long-stroke engine widely used in FF layout cars. This engine has a 71 mm bore and 84 mm stroke giving it a bore/stroke ratio of 0.845:1. Some rear-wheel-drive cars that borrow engines from front-wheel-drive cars (such as the Mazda MX-5) use an undersquare design.\n\nBMW's acclaimed S54B32 engine was undersquare ( vs bore), offering a world record torque-per-litre figure () for normally-aspirated production engines at the time; this record stood until Ferrari unveiled the 458 Italia.\n\nMany British automobile companies used undersquare designs until the 1950s, largely because of a motor tax system that taxed cars by their cylinder bore. This includes the BMC A-Series engine, and many Nissan derivatives. The Trojan Car used an undersquare, split piston, two stroke, two cylinder in line engine; this was partly for this tax advantage and partly because its proportions allowed flexing V-shaped connecting rods for the two pistons of each U-shaped cylinder, which was cheaper and simpler than two connecting rods joined with an additional bearing.\n\nThe 225 cu in (3.7 litre) Chrysler Slant-6 engine is undersquare, with a bore and a stroke (bore/stroke ratio = 0.819:1).\n\nThe Ford 5.4L Modular Engine features a cylinder bore of 90.1 mm (3.552 in) and a stroke of 105.8 mm (4.165 in), which makes a bore/stroke ratio of 0.852:1. Since the stroke is significantly longer than the bore, the SOHC 16V (2-valve per cylinder) version of this engine is able to generate a peak torque of 350 lb·ft as low as 2501 rpm.\n\nThe Willys Jeep L134 and F134 engines were undersquare, with a 79.4 mm (3.125 in) bore and 111.1 mm (4.375 in) stroke (bore/stroke ratio = 0.714:1).\n\nThe Dodge Power Wagon used a straight-six Chrysler Flathead engine of 230 cu in (3.8 l) with a bore of and a stroke of , yielding a substantially undersquare bore/stroke ratio of 0.709:1.\n\nThe 4-litre Barra Inline 6 engine from the Australian Ford Falcon, uses a 92.21 mm bore and 99.31 mm stroke, which equates to a 0.929:1 bore-stroke ratio.\n\nThe 292 Chevrolet I6 is also undersquare, with a bore of 3.875 in and a stroke of 4.125 in (bore/stroke ratio = 0.939:1).\n\nMitsubishi's 4G63T engine found primarily in many generations of Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution is an undersquare engine at 85 mm bore x 88 mm stroke.\n\nVirtually all piston engines used in military aircraft were long-stroke engines. The PW R-2800, Wright R-3350, Pratt & Whitney R-4360 Wasp Major, Rolls-Royce Merlin (1650), Allison V-1710, and Hispano-Suiza 12Y-Z are only a few of more than a hundred examples.\n\nAll diesel-powered ships have massively undersquare marine engines. A Wärtsilä two-stroke marine diesel engine has a cylinder bore of 960 mm (37.8 in) and stroke of 2500 mm (98.4 in), (bore/stroke ratio = 0.384:1).\n\nWhile most modern motorcycle engines are square or oversquare, some are undersquare. The Kawasaki Z1300's straight-six engine was made undersquare to minimise engine width, more recently, a new straight-twin engine for the Honda NC700 series used an undersquare design to achieve better combustion efficiency in order to reduce fuel consumption.\n"}
{"id": "20034448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20034448", "title": "Tele-information services", "text": "Tele-information services\n\nTele-information services are based on an alliance of digital telecommunication and computer technology that play an important role in inter-human communications. It is a classification of information flows broken down so that the presentation and information content are not confused with the character of the information flow. Tele-information services consist of four definable information traffic patterns being \"allocution\", \"conversation\", \"consultation\" and \"registration\". These information traffic patterns can be combined to form more complex multi-pattern services and networks made up of any number of information traffic patterns.\n\n"}
{"id": "4977373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4977373", "title": "Temporal encroachment", "text": "Temporal encroachment\n\nTemporal encroachment is an action that affects the perception of time or that affects the ability to take action in the future. Temporal means \"related to the measurement or passing of time\" and encroachment is \"an intrusion, usually unwelcome, into the space of another\".\n\nThe space that temporal encroachment refers to is temporal space, the temporal \"space\" or \"territory\" upon which others attach significance.\n\nThere are various kinds of temporal encroachment:\n\nThis is when one group or person delays another person. A good example is a vice president making a lower-ranked employee wait in his outer office while he conducts business. Another good example is a valued worker who always shows up late to work but this is allowed due to his abilities. This kind of encroachment is very common in the workplace. Various cultures look at this differently—the Japanese are very punctual, while most Latin and Baltic cultures would be more relaxed with time, instead looking at social parameters.\n\nThis refers to actions taken that influence events 'down the line', narrowing possible choices and alternatives. It is worth noting that the most common use of this phrase is found in ecology, where there is a large amount of concern about the effects of human encroachment upon animals and other wildlife. Encroachment can be a good or bad factor in the lives of the animals, but most commonly, it is bad.\n\nIt has been used by some Jewish thinkers to refer to changes in Zionism that have 'ripple effects' on Jews worldwide, and the effect this has had on global terrorism.\n\nIt has also been used in the legal system, where some legal thinkers believe early correction of poverty and other socioeconomic ills can 'narrow' the likelihood of future criminality.\n\nIt can also reflect a sense that modern events and interpretations of history alter and change our perceptions of history. For example, the involvement of the Papacy in the formation of the structure of medieval Europe was viewed differently at the time than it is today.\n\nSome also view it as the encroachment of the young on the old, see \"Encroachment of old age\" below.\n\nSome examples of temporal encroachment in other contexts.\nEncroachment from flooding: Construction of settlements in flood plains, ignoring the tendency of rivers to flood occasionally, results in situations in which river water encroaches on properties in ways that can prove extremely costly. Here encroachment on flood plains by buildings engenders encroachment by flooding.\n\nEncroachment from rising sea levels: This is a more dramatic and permanent example of encroachment from flooding whose major effects are predicted to become evident over the coming decades. It is caused by failure to respond effectively to the challenge of global warming and rising carbon emissions. Here encroachment on air quality engenders encroachment by rising sea levels. \nEncroachment by disease resistant bacteria: The widespread development and use of pharmaceutical drugs to control disease has created a situation in which bacteria are mutating and treatment-resistant bacteria are becoming a major challenge to hospitals. Here encroachment by progressive pharmaceutical response to disease engenders encroachment by bacterial resistance to those treatments. \nEncroachment from population pressure: This widely documented phenomenon is associated with the ever-increasing use of non-renewable resources. Here encroachment by increasing population (and reproductive rights) engenders encroachment by the demands on resources which there is a reasonable probability cannot be fulfilled and will therefore engender a violent and unreasonable response.\n\nEncroachment of old age: The process of ageing, and terminal illness, may be experienced as encroaching shadows on human dignity. Equally, while near the peak of their careers, people may note the encroachment of youth and change. \n\nIn medical terminology, a temporal encroachment has to do with bones in the skull pressing tightly against the brain after an injury to the head.\n\nIn computer science, a temporal key that is improperly validatated is considered a temporal encroachment.\n\n"}
{"id": "843107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=843107", "title": "Use value", "text": "Use value\n\nUse value (German: \"Gebrauchswert\") or value in use is a concept in classical political economy and Marxian economics. It refers to the tangible features of a commodity (a tradeable object) which can satisfy some human requirement, want or need, or which serves a useful purpose. In Marx's critique of political economy, any product has a labor-value and a use-value, and if it is traded as a commodity in markets, it additionally has an exchange value, most often expressed as a money-price. Marx acknowledges that commodities being traded also have a \"general utility\", implied by the fact that people want them, but he argues that this by itself tells us nothing about the specific character of the economy in which they are produced and sold. \nThe concepts of value, use value, utility, exchange value and price have a very long history in economic and philosophical thought. From Aristotle to Adam Smith and David Ricardo their meanings have evolved. Smith recognized that commodities may have an exchange-value but may satisfy no use-value, such as diamonds, while a commodity with a very high use-value may have a very low exchange-value, such as water. Marx comments for example that \"in English writers of the 17th century we frequently find \"worth\" in the sense of value in use, and \"value\" in the sense of exchange-value.\" With the expansion of market economy, however, the focus of economists has increasingly been on prices and price-relations, the social process of exchange as such being assumed to occur as a naturally given fact. \n\nIn \"The Economic and Philosophic Manuscripts of 1844\", Marx emphasizes that the use-value of a labour-product is practical and objectively determined; that is, it inheres in the intrinsic characteristics of a product that enable it to satisfy a human need or want. The use-value of a product therefore exists as a material reality vis-a-vis social needs regardless of the individual need of any particular person. The use-value of a commodity is specifically a social use-value, meaning that it has a generally accepted use-value for others in society, and not just for the producer.\n\nMarx first defines use-value precisely in \"A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy\" (1859) where he explains that:\n\nThe concept is also introduced at the beginning of \"Das Kapital,\" where Marx writes, but in the extract below he holds it up as a critique of Hegel's liberal \"Philosophy of Right\". He remained a sharp critic of what was to the Marxian view a destructive philosophy:\n\nThis was a direct reference by Marx to Hegel's \"Elements of the Philosophy of Right\" §63. Marx adds that:\n\nMarx acknowledges that a nominal price or value can be imputed to goods or assets which are not reproducible goods and not produced by human labour, as correctly noted later by Engels that a product is not necessarily a commodity. However Marx generally holds that only human labour expended can create value compared with Nature, through instrumentation known as modus operandi, or the method of working.\n\n\"As exchange-values, all commodities are merely definite quantities of congealed labour-time\", wrote Karl Marx. The discrepancy of the true purpose of value came to be one of the biggest sources of conflict between capital and labour. The transformation of a use-value into a social use-value and into a commodity (the process of commodification) is not automatic or spontaneous, but has technical, social and political preconditions. For example, it must be possible to trade it, and to transfer ownership or access rights to it from one person or organization to another in a secure way. There must also be a real market demand for it. And all that may depend greatly on the nature of the use-value itself, as well as the ability to package, store, preserve and transport it. In the case of information or communication as use-values, transforming them into commodities may be a complex and problem-fraught process.\n\nThus, the objective characteristics of use-values are very important for understanding (1) the development and expansion of market trade, and (2) necessary technical relationships between different economic activities (e.g. supply chains). To produce a car, for example, you objectively require steel, and this steel is required, regardless of what its price might be. Necessary relationships therefore exist between different use-values, because they are technically, materially and practically related. Some authors therefore write about an \"industrial complex\" or \"technological complex\", indicating thereby how different technological products are linked in a system. A good example would be all the different products involved in the production and use of motor cars.\n\nThe category of use-value is also important in distinguishing different economic sectors according to their specific type of output. Following Quesnay's analysis of economic reproduction, Marx distinguished between the economic sector producing means of production and the sectors producing consumer goods and luxuries. In modern national accounts more subtle distinctions are made, for example between primary, secondary and tertiary production, semi-durable and durable goods, and so on.\n\nIn his textbook \"The Theory of Capitalist Development\" (1942), American Marxist Paul Sweezy claimed that:\n\nCuriously, Sweezy disregarded that in consuming (both intermediate and final consumption), producers and consumers might \"also\" be socially related.\n\nLikewise, in his influential \"Principles of Political Economy\", the Japanese Marxist Kozo Uno sums up the theory of a \"purely capitalist society\" in the three doctrines of circulation, production and distribution. Apparently it did not occur to him that even in the purest capitalist society, (final) consumption would have to occur as a necessary aspect of economic reproduction, and that capitalist relations extended to, and included, the way in which consumption was organised in capitalist society—increasingly substituting private consumption for collective consumption.\n\nMarx himself explicitly rejected Sweezy's and Uno's interpretation (see the quotation from 1859 cited previously, in which use-value is distinguished from the general concept of utility). In a draft included in the Grundrisse manuscripts, which inspired the starting point of \"A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy\" and \"Das Kapital\", Marx explicitly states that:\n\nIn an important essay Roman Rosdolsky shows the important role of use value in Marx's economics. The fact is that Marx himself, in the introduction to his \"Grundrisse\" manuscript, had defined the economic sphere as the \"totality\" of production, circulation, distribution \"and consumption\". He did not however live to finish \"Das Kapital\", and did not theorise how commercial relations would reshape the sphere of personal consumption in accordance with the requirements of capital accumulation.\n\nMinor issues remained from the redundant neoclassical theories, such as the question of the proper empirical definition of capital and labour in the laws factor substitution. Other empirical issues include the so-called Solow Residual in which the heterogenous nature of labour is thoroughly explored for its qualitative elements beyond differentiation. and the concept of total factor productivity, prompting some to consider such things as technology, human capital, stock of knowledge to name a few tested. It was only later that scholars such as Walter Benjamin, Fernand Braudel, Ben Fine, Manuel Castells and Michel Aglietta tried to fill this gap in Marx's unfinished work. In modern times the theory has been extended to conclude that conversion of energy-driven work does not rely on labour-intensive inputs; thus use can be unsupervised work that develops a notion of human capital.\n\n\"Equation: A = P + hL\"\n\nMarx's concept of use-value seems akin to, but in reality differs from the neoclassical concept of utility.\n\n\nIn summary, different concepts of use value lead to different interpretations and explanations of trade, commerce and capitalism. Marx's main argument is that if we focus only on the general utility of a commodity, we abstract from and ignore precisely the specific social relations of production which created it.\n\nSome academics such as Professor Robert Albritton, a Canadian political scientist, have claimed that according to Marx, capitalists are basically \"indifferent\" to the use-value of the goods and services in which they trade, since what matters to capitalists is just the money they make; whatever the buyer does with the goods and services produced is, so it seems, of no real concern.\n\nBut this is arguably a misunderstanding of business activity and the bourgeoisie as a class. Marx thought that capitalists can never be totally \"indifferent\" to use-values, because inputs of sufficient quality (labour, materials, equipment) must be bought and managed to produce outputs that:\n\n\nFor this purpose, the inputs in production must moreover be used in an economical way, and care must be taken not to waste resources to the extent that this would mean additional costs for an enterprise, or reduce productivity. The Theory of Use Values relates directly to human labour and the power of machines to destroy value, \"Living labour must seize on these things, awaken them from the dead, change them from merely possible into real and effective use values.”\n\nIt is just that from the point of view of the financier or investor, the main concern is not what exactly is being produced as such or how useful that is for society, but whether the investment can make a profit for him. If the products of the enterprise being invested in sell and make a profit, then that is regarded as sufficient indication of usefulness. Even so, the investor is obviously interested in \"the state of the market\" for the enterprise's products—if certain products are being used less or used more, this affects sales and profits. So to evaluate \"the state of the market\", the investor needs knowledge about the place of a product in the value chain and how it is being used.\n\nOften, Marx assumed in \"Das Kapital\" for argument's sake that supply and demand will balance, and that products do sell. Even so, Marx carefully defines the production process both as a labour process creating use-values, and a valorisation process creating new value. He asserts only that \"capital in general\" as an abstract social power, or as a property claim to surplus value, is indifferent to particular use-values—what matters in this financial relation is only whether more value can be appropriated through the exchanges that occur. Most share-holders are not interested in whether a company actually satisfies customers, they want an adequate profit on their investment (but a countertrend is so-called \"socially responsible investing\").\n\nIn modern times, business leaders are often very concerned with total quality management in production, which has become the object of scientific studies, as well as a new source of industrial conflict, since attempts are made to integrate \"everything\" a worker is and does (both his creative potential and how he relates to others) in the battle for improved quality. In that case, it could be argued not just labour power but the whole person is a use-value (see further Richard Sennett's books such as \"The Culture of the New Capitalism\", Yale (2006). Some regard this practice as a kind of \"wage-slavery\".\n\nFrom beginning to end, and from production to consumption, use-value and exchange-value form a dialectical unity. If this is not fully clear from Marx's writings, that is perhaps mainly because he never theorised the sphere of final consumption in any detail, nor the way in which commerce reshapes the way that final consumption takes place.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24293838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24293838", "title": "Wigner rotation", "text": "Wigner rotation\n\nIn theoretical physics, the composition of two non-collinear Lorentz boosts results in a Lorentz transformation that is not a pure boost but is the composition of a boost and a rotation. This rotation is called Thomas rotation, Thomas–Wigner rotation or Wigner rotation. The rotation was discovered by Llewellyn Thomas in 1926, and derived by Wigner in 1939. If a sequence of non-collinear boosts returns an object to its initial velocity, then the sequence of Wigner rotations can combine to produce a net rotation called the Thomas precession.\n\nThere are still ongoing discussions about the correct form of equations for the Thomas rotation in different reference systems with contradicting results. Goldstein:\nEinstein's principle of velocity reciprocity (EPVR) reads\nWith less careful interpretation, the EPVR is seemingly violated in some models. There is, of course, no true paradox present.\n\nWhen studying the Thomas rotation at the fundamental level, one typically uses a setup with three coordinate frames, . Frame has velocity relative to frame , and frame has velocity relative to frame .\n\nThe axes are, by construction, oriented as follows. Viewed from , the axes of and are parallel (the same holds true for the pair of frames when viewed from .) Also viewed from , the spatial axes of and are parallel (and the same holds true for the pair of frames when viewed from .) This is an application of EVPR: If is the velocity of relative to , then is the velocity of relative to . The velocity makes the \"same\" angles with respect to coordinate axes in both the primed and unprimed systems. This does \"not\" represent a snapshot taken in any of the two frames of the combined system at any particular time, as should be clear from the detailed description below.\n\nThis is possible, since a boost in, say, the positive , preserves orthogonality of the coordinate axes. A general boost can be expressed as , where is a rotation taking the into the direction of and is a boost in the new . Each rotation retains the property that the spatial coordinate axes are orthogonal. The boost will stretch the (intermediate) by a factor , while leaving the and in place. The fact that coordinate axes are non-parallel in this construction after \"two\" consecutive non-collinear boosts is a precise expression of the phenomenon of Thomas precession.\n\nThe velocity of as seen in is denoted , where ⊕ refers to the relativistic addition of velocity (and not ordinary vector addition), given by\n\n\\frac{1}{c^2}\\frac{\\gamma_\\mathbf{u}}{1+\\gamma_\\mathbf{u}} \\mathbf u \\cdot \\mathbf v \\right)\\mathbf u +\n\nand\n\nwhich still completely defines the direction of the axis without loss of information.\n\nThe rotation is simply a \"static\" rotation and there is no relative rotational motion between the frames, there is relative translational motion in the boost. However, if the frames accelerate, then the rotated frame rotates with an angular velocity. This effect is known as the Thomas precession, and arises purely from the kinematics of successive Lorentz boosts.\n\nIn principle, it is pretty easy. Since every Lorentz transformation is a product of a boost and a rotation, the consecutive application of two pure boosts is a pure boost, either followed by or preceded by a pure rotation. Thus suppose\n\nThe task is to glean from this equation the boost velocity and the rotation from the matrix entries of . The coordinates of events are related by\n\nInverting this relation yields\n\nor\n\nSet Then will record the spacetime position of the origin of the primed system,\n\nor\n\nBut\n\nMultiplying this matrix with a pure rotation will not affect the zeroth columns and rows, and\n\nwhich could have been anticipated from the formula for a simple boost in the -direction, and for the relative velocity vector\n\nThus given with , one obtains and by little more than inspection of . (Of course, can also be found using velocity addition per above.) From , construct . The solution for is then\n\nWith the ansatz\n\none finds by the same means\n\nFinding a formal solution in terms of velocity parameters and involves first \"formally\" multiplying , formally inverting, then reading off form the result, \"formally\" building from the result, and, finally, formally multiplying . It should be clear that this is a daunting task, and it is difficult to interpret/identify the result as a rotation, though it is clear a priori that it is. It is these difficulties that the Goldstein quote at the top refers to. The problem has been thoroughly studied under simplifying assumptions over the years.\n\nAnother way to explain the origin of the rotation is by looking at the generators of the Lorentz group.\n\nThe passage from a velocity to a boost is obtained as follows. An arbitrary boost is given by\n\nwhere is a triple of real numbers serving as coordinates on the boost subspace of the Lie algebra spanned by the matrices\n\nThe vector\n\nis called the \"boost parameter\" or \"boost vector\", its norm is the rapidity. Here is the \"velocity parameter\", the magnitude of the vector . While for one has the is confined by , and hence . Thus\n\nThe set of velocities satisfying is an open ball in and is called the space of admissible velocities in the literature. It is endowed with a hyperbolic geometry described in the linked article.\n\nThe generators of boosts, in different directions do not commute. This has the effect that two consecutive boosts is not a pure boost in general, but a rotation preceding a boost.\n\nConsider a succession of boosts in the x direction, then the y direction, expanding each boost to first order\n\nthen\n\nand the group commutator is\n\nThree of the commutation relations of the Lorentz generators are\n\nwhere the bracket is a binary operation known as the \"commutator\", and the other relations can be found by taking cyclic permutations of x, y, z components (i.e. change x to y, y to z, and z to x, repeat).\n\nReturning to the group commutator, the commutation relations of the boost generators imply for a boost along the x then y directions, there will be a rotation about the z axis. In terms of the rapidities, the rotation angle is given by\n\nThe familiar notion of vector addition for velocities in the Euclidean plane can be done in a triangular formation, or since vector addition is commutative, the vectors in both orderings geometrically form a parallelogram (see \"parallelogram law\"). This does not hold for relativistic velocity addition; instead a hyperbolic triangle arises whose edges are related to the rapidities of the boosts. Changing the order of the boost velocities, one does not find the resultant boost velocities to coincide.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9640530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9640530", "title": "Working Group on Arbitrary Detention", "text": "Working Group on Arbitrary Detention\n\nThe Working Group on Arbitrary Detention is a body of independent human rights experts that investigate cases of arbitrary arrest and detention. Arbitrary arrest and detention is the imprisonment or detainment of an individual, by a State, without respect for due process. These actions may be in violation of international human rights law.\n\nThe Working Group was established by resolution in 1991 by the former Commission on Human Rights. It is one of the thematic special procedures overseen by the United Nations Human Rights Council, and is therefore a subsidiary body of the UN.\n\nThe Working Group is mandated to receive and verify information from a variety of sources, in order to investigate cases of detention imposed arbitrarily, or otherwise inconsistently with the relevant international standards set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 9 states: ‘No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention, or exile’. In considering claims of arbitrary detention, the Working Group is not only guided by State national law, but other international legal instruments may also be relevant if accepted by the States concerned. For example, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Article 9(1) states; “Everyone has the right to liberty and security of person. No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest or detention. No one shall be Deprived of his liberty except on such grounds and in accordance with such procedure as are established by law.”\n\nThe Working Group's role is to investigate individual cases of arbitrary detention, as well as situations where the conditions in a country prompt concern over widespread occurrences of arbitrary detention. It has an intentionally broad mandate, to allow flexibility, and allow anyone to seek its assistance. The Working Group may send urgent appeals to governments to ascertain the whereabouts and condition of those allegedly detained, issues opinions on the compliance with international law and may also conduct fact-finding visits to countries. The Working Group also issue deliberations on issues, to assist States in avoiding behaviour that may enable arbitrary detention. Ensuring a communicative dialogue with Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations allows the Working Group to achieve success. The Working Group must work in coordination with other Human Rights Council mechanisms and is mandated to carry out its task with discretion, objectivity and independence.\n\nThe Working Group mandate reflects the Commission’s concerns regarding worldwide instances of detention without legal basis. The Commission on Human Rights entrusted the Working Group with the following mandate:\n\n\nThe mandate lasts for a period of three years, and was most recently extended for a further three-year period by Human Rights Council resolution 33/30 of 30 September 2016.\n\nThe Working Group is composed of five independent experts. They are appointed in equitable geographical distribution from the following regions: Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, Western Europe and Other Countries, and South America and Caribbean. Three sessions are held per year, each lasting between five and eight days.\n\nThe current members of the Working Group are:\n\nThe Working Group on Arbitrary Detention is tasked with acting on information of alleged cases of arbitrary detention. To fulfil this mandate, the Working Group may decide individual complaints of arbitrary detention, formulate deliberations to provide guidance on the interpretation of international standards related to detention circumstances and provide reports for the Human Rights Council. It may undertake country visits to achieve this.\n\nThe Working Group does not require the exhaustion of local remedies. However, its purpose is not to replace national courts. This broadens its jurisdiction, as it allows the Group to bypass governments that may be stalling procedure.\n\nDetention in itself does not necessarily violate human rights. Therefore, the Working Group must distinguish between lawful exercise of police power, and detention so lacking in lawful basis or otherwise unreasonable, that it must be considered arbitrary.\n\nThe Working Group on Arbitrary Detention is unique in that its mandate expressly provides for the consideration of individual complaints. Individuals anywhere in the world are therefore able to petition the Working Group for consideration. The Group acts on information submitted to it by individuals directly, their families, or through representatives of Non-governmental organisations.\n\nThe Working Group then sends communications to the Governments concerned, to clarify or bring attention to the case. The Government is invited to respond to the allegations within 60 days, with its view on the issue. The Working Group then sends the reply to the source of the allegations, requesting more information. This process allows the Group to remain neutral in the information-gathering process.\n\nThe Working Group has identified detention or imprisonment as arbitrary if it falls into one of the following categories;\n\nExamples of this can include continued detention after the completion of a sentence, denial of the exercise of fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, violations of the right to a fair trial, asylum and immigration claims, or detention based on ethnicity; religion; sexual orientation, etc.\n\nUpon receiving information under this adversary procedure, the Working Group then adopts one of the following approaches;\n\n\nUpon evaluating contradicting evidence, such as between an individual claiming arbitrary deprivation of liberty and a government, the Working Group use a standard of 'convincing evidence', as opposed to evidence beyond a reasonable doubt. The informal nature of the Working Group can strengthen the position of the individual represented, by easing the objective burden of proof on them.\n\nIf the Working Group receives information that raises concern about the immediate wellbeing of an individual, then it may, at its discretion, pursue an urgent action. The source must provide sufficiently reliable information that the continuation of deprivation poses significant threat to the psychological or physical wellbeing to the individual. The alleged situation may be time-sensitive in relation to loss of life or deportation. Rapid communication is sought with diplomats, such as the Foreign Minister (or equivalent). The Working Group request immediate action to ensure the detained person's right to life, as well as physical and mental integrity are respected. This a purely humanitarian undertaking, and does not prejudice the Working Group's final opinion on whether the deprivation of liberty is indeed arbitrary.\n\nIn order to fulfil its mandate, the Working Group may conduct country visits. These provide an opportunity for the Group to understand the specific situation prevailing in countries. The Group undertake one to three country visits per year, upon invitation from the Government concerned. For example, in May 2017 the Working Group visited Argentina. In 2016 the Group visited the United States of America and Azerbaijan. The Group tend to visit between one and four countries per year.\n\nOn a country visit, members of the Working Group engage in a variety of tasks. These can include meeting with representatives of the executive, legislators, and other state officials. The Group also has the right to visit places of detention and have private discussions with detainees. Country visits enable the Working Group to gain a greater understanding of the social, political and historical environment in each country, enabling them to create context-appropriate recommendations.\n\nMore generally, the Working Group seeks to encourage broader international understanding of arbitrary detention, and promote universal standards. This is achieved through a more general advisory role, with the formulation of deliberations. The Group formulates deliberations on general issues to assist States in safeguarding against the practice of arbitrary deprivation of liberty. For example, the Group have developed deliberations on issues relating to house arrest, psychiatric detention, deprivation of liberty subsequent to a conviction and resulting from the use of the internet, on rehabilitation through labour and situations regarding immigrants and asylum seekers. The Group have also provided legal analysis regarding the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia and clarified the definition of arbitrary deprivation of liberty under customary international law and the urgent appeals procedure.\n\nThe Working Group must submit Annual Reports to the Human Rights Council, summarising the previous year's activities. The report will express observations made while investigating cases and on field missions in differing countries. The report details the Working Group's reasoning behind legal insufficiencies, policies and judicial policies that are the cause of arbitrary deprivation of liberty, and recommend best practice to safeguard against arbitrary deprivation of liberty.\n\nThe Group functions as a quasi-judicial body. The Group has no direct enforcement power of its own. Instead, it relies on communication among states, policy-makers and advocates to encourage governments to implement its recommendations. Due to its reliance on the cooperation of states, it can be argued that this weakens the authority of the Group.\n\nThe opinions of the Working Group however are legally binding to the extent that they are based on binding international human rights laws, such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. This is applicable to states that have ratified the Covenant.\n\nThe opinions of the Working Group are considered authoritative by some prominent international judicial institutions including the European Court of Human Rights. The features of the Working Group arguably play a role in its success, as it allows it to provide a politically viable alternative to treaty-based human rights enforcement mechanisms. The flexible mandate enables it to avoid direct political confrontation with governments, ultimately achieving more politically acceptable and lasting solutions to individual cases of arbitrary detention. While the opinions of the Working Group are not binding on states, they can facilitate information sharing among non-governmental organisations and governments. This can in turn lead to an increase in government accountability.\n\nA further criticism of the Group is that it has taken no steps toward creating a robust follow up procedure, to apply pressure on states arbitrarily detaining individuals. Establishing a systematic follow up procedure could ensure an even greater accountability on governments, acting as a name and shame process to pressure them into action. A follow up procedure may also be beneficial for providing feedback for future policy decisions. It could also aid non-governmental organisations in petitioning governments with unresolved cases. Having a record of resolved cases could help the Group to keep track of the status of detainees and any correlation between the action of the Working Group. Information and statistics drawn from this can be publicised, and help to increase outreach.\n\nIn 2012, the Human Rights Council requested the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention to develop draft basic principles. These were to provide guidelines on remedies and procedures for anyone deprived of his or her liberty by arrest or detention to bring proceedings before court, in order that the court may decide without delay on the lawfulness of his or her detention and order his or her release if the detention is not lawful. The intention behind these were to assist states in fulfilling their obligation to avoid arbitrary deprivation of liberty. States, treaty bodies, human rights institutions and non-governmental organisations were invited to submit details on the treatment of the right to bring such proceedings before a court, in their respective legal frameworks. The text was adopted in April 2015.\n\nOn 5 February 2016, the group released a report stating that Assange had been subject to arbitrary detention by the UK and Swedish Governments since 7 December 2010, including his time in prison in Britain and Sweden, on conditional bail, and in the Ecuadorian embassy. According to the report, Assange should be allowed to walk free and be given compensation.\n\nThe UK and Swedish governments rejected the report. Then-UK Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, Philip Hammond, said the claim was \"ridiculous\" and that the group was \"made up of lay people\", and called Assange a \"fugitive from justice\" who \"can come out any time he chooses\". UK and Swedish prosecutors called the group's claims irrelevant. The UK said it would arrest Assange should he leave the Ecuadorian embassy. Mark Ellis, executive director of the International Bar Association, stated that the finding is \"not binding on British law\". United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad al Hussein has claimed that the finding is based on international law.\n\nOn 13th February 2018, the Westminster Magistrates’ Court, while considering whether the arrest warrant issued against Assange should be upheld, rejected the findings of the Working Group, stating in part that \"The group appears to have based its conclusions on some misunderstandings of what occurred after Mr Assange’s arrest.\" Senior District Judge (Chief Magistrate) Emma Arbuthnot did not find that Mr Assange’s stay in the Embassy was \"inappropriate, unjust, unpredictable, unreasonable, unnecessary or disproportionate.\" \n"}
{"id": "53985129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53985129", "title": "World Conference on Women, 1975", "text": "World Conference on Women, 1975\n\nWorld Conference on Women, 1975 was held between 19 June and 2 July 1975 in Mexico City, Mexico. It was the first international conference held by the United Nations to focus solely on women's issues and marked a turning point in policy directives. After this meeting, women were viewed as part of the process to develop and implement policy, rather than recipients of assistance. The conference was one of the events established for International Women's Year and led to the creation of both the United Nations Decade for Women and follow-up conferences to evaluate the progress that had been made in eliminating discrimination against women and their equality. Two documents were adopted from the conference proceedings, the World Plan of Action which had specific targets for nations to implement for women's improvement and the Declaration of Mexico on the Equality of Women and Their Contribution to Development and Peace, which discussed how nations foreign policy actions impacted women. It also led to the establishment of the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women to track improvements and continuing issues and the United Nations Development Fund for Women to provide funding for developmental programs. The conference marked the first time that the parallel Tribune meeting was successful in submitting input to the official meeting and became a catalyst for women's groups to form throughout the world.\n\nThe World Conference on Women occurred in the 1970s amid the Cold War when geopolitical conflict was controlled based on the interests of the United States or the USSR in various regions throughout the world, polarizing the world into two camps and their respective fields of influence. At a time when the United States had just withdrawn from Vietnam, forty-eight separate conflicts would rock Asia in such places as Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Myanmar, Pakistan, Sri Lanka. African wars during the end of decolonization in the 1970s turned toward long-lasting civil wars in Angola, Ethiopia-Somali, Mozambique and other African nations, with the superpowers manipulating the conflicts in the background with troops and arms. Decolonization of the Caribbean saw twelve states gain their independence between 1962 and 1983, but simultaneously remain marginalized by pressures from world powers which continued to manipulate local concerns. Two significant Middle East conflicts occurred in 1967 and 1973 with the US backing its Arab allies and Israel, while the USSR backed Arab socialist regimes. In Central and South America various coups d'états in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador and dictatorships led to instability and decimation of indigenous populations.\n\nResponses to the conflict often had additional repercussions, such as the 1973 Oil embargo, a response to the Arab-Israeli conflict, which caused the price of oil to rise on the world market from three dollars per barrel to twelve dollars per barrel. The embargo was followed by the 1979 energy crisis, sparked by concerns over lowered production caused by the Iranian Revolution and how continued instability might impact oil availability. That in turn led to a build up of reserves, during which time the price of oil doubled and forced the world to look at alternative sources of oil. Adding to the conflicts of the time were racial inequalities, ranging from Apartheid and Zionism to Paternalism.\n\nWork had long been ongoing by the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) to adopt a declaration to eliminate discrimination against women. By 1965, it was believed that enough support had been garnered to obtain passage of a declaration to secure women's human rights. Collating responses covering education, employment, inheritance, penal reform, and other issues, from government actors, NGO representatives and UN staff, CSW delegates began drafting a declaration. On 7 November 1967, the Declaration on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women (DEDAW), was passed by the General Assembly. In 1972, the United States Congress passed Title IX, eliminating discrimination in education for any institution receiving federal funding. That same year, CSW proposed that DEDAW become a legally binding Convention. To that end, the United Nations proclaimed 1975 as International Women's Year and the CSW set about the tasks to prepare the \"machinery\" necessary to secure passage. Helvi Sipilä, was selected as the Assistant Secretary General for Social Development and Humanitarian affairs and placed in charge of organizing events. Added significance of the date was that the conference would take place on the thirtieth anniversary of the creation of the United Nations.\n\nWhen the United Nations designated 1975 as International Women's Year, no conference was planned as part of the celebrations because delegates on opposing sides of the Cold War could not agree to authorize one. Initially proposed by the Romanian delegate of the UN Commission on the Status of Women, communist women joined to filibuster the project, instead proposing a women's congress in East Berlin, which had nothing to do with the United Nations. As a counter, the US proposed a gender neutral conference to be held in Bogotá, Colombia to promote equality for men and women, because the presence of men would legitimize the conference. When Mexico City agreed to host the conference, Princess Ashraf of Iran began collecting funds, and each side mobilized to shape the agenda. The US position advocated for political rights and elimination of discrimination through legal remedies. The Soviet camp advocated for women to be empowered so that they could use their natural abilities as nurturers to stem violence and inequality which created poverty and injustice.\n\nThough , the Mexican Attorney General, was appointed head of the conference, the majority, 113 of the 133 delegation leaders were women. The conference was a governmental meeting, not a meeting of women, and as such the high percentage of women marked the first time that 73% of the delegates for a UN conference were women, even if the 27% participation by men was higher than the number of women typical at such conferences. The nature of the conference also dictated that all delegates, as representatives of their governments would follow the ideological agendas of their governments, rather than act upon any private convictions. Among the prominent delegates, which many feminists felt were chosen for ideological reasons or ties to prominent male politicians, were Sirimavo Bandaranaike, Prime Minister of Sri Lanka; Anna Louise Beer, chair of the Norwegian National Women's Council; Vilma Espín de Castro, sister-in-law to the Cuban president; Francoise Giroud, French Minister of Women's Affairs; Imelda Marcos, First Lady of the Philippines; Ashraf Pahlavi, twin sister of Iran's shah; Leah Rabin, First Lady of Israel; Elizabeth Anne Reid of Australia; Silvana Maria Rota, Argentine congresswoman; Jehan Sadat, First Lady of Egypt; Soviet Cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova, the first woman in space; Vida Tomšič, Yugoslavian representative of the Non-Aligned Movement; Khunying Suparb Visessurakarn, vice president of Thailand's National Council on Social Welfare; but not First Lady Betty Ford, as the US administration feared linking the threat of anti-capitalist sentiment with women's issues.\n\nAfter opening remarks by Kurt Waldheim, President Luis Echeverría of Mexico spoke, stating that women, in their role as mothers, were allies of the oppressed and that \"no woman was more discriminated against or exploited than the woman without bread, school or medicines for her children\". Setting the stage, Echeverría's comments mirrored the position that the nurturing nature of women could help to solve the worlds' crises, if marginalization were eliminated. It was agreed that the themes of equality, development and peace were the primary focus of action, as they were international in nature and required simultaneous action by global components. In general discussion it was recognized that to achieve equality and attain the fundamental human rights and freedoms expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the inferior status of women had to be addressed to bring about parity in civic, economic, legal, social and political spheres. Recognizing that legal changes alone could not ensure equality, the general discussion agreed that developmental programs made available to both urban and rural women must include women in all decision-making levels, from planning to implementation and analysis, and must provide adequate training. The discussion also recognized the need to monitor advances in women's progress as well a societal change in attitudes toward women via national institutions. In efforts toward peace, the discussion recognized women's contributions to developing friendly international relationships and pressing for disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament. Increased participation by women in international and regional problem-solving summits, was discussed as a way to maintain peace and security. \nThe first committee, under the chair Jeanne Martin Cissé of Guinea, with vice-chairs, Gladys Freire de Addiego of Uruguay, of Czechoslovakia and Nilima Ibrahim of Bangladesh and Rapporteur John Bruce Campbell of Australia discussed the World Plan of Action. The plan, which had previously been drafted by a diverse range of UN committees, established a broad range of targets, considering that national developments were in varying stages, to be accomplished over the next decade (1975–1985). In addition to adopting the overall plan as revised by subcommittees, the first committee evaluating six draft resolutions, which dealt with research and training, international cooperation, women's status, the role of the UN in implementation of the Plan, women's health, and participation of women in future meetings of the UN. All were accepted with either no or minimal modification. The \"Declaration of Mexico on the Equality of Women and Their Contribution to Development and Peace\", was also reviewed by the committee and the draft accepted with minimal or no modification. Some radical feminists, uninterested in reviewing a plan already prepared by UN committees tried to take over a US embassy meeting and yet another group walked out of the conference when Leah Rabin spoke.\n\nThe second committee, under the chair Shapour Rassekh of Iran, with vice-chairs, Edmonde Dever of Belgium, Annie Jiagge of Ghana and Anna Papp of Hungary and Rapporteur of Jamaica evaluated current trends and obstacles in the roles of men and women to achieving parity in rights, opportunities, and responsibilities; and how women could be integrated into developmental programs. They discussed passage of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) as a critical step in the process. Recognizing the wide gap between the \"de jure\" and \"de facto\" status of women, the committee noted that to achieve equality changes would need to be made in a broad spectrum of areas including: education, employment opportunity, family, integration into existent systems, and the law. Fifty-eight draft resolutions had been submitted for the committee to review, which covered these areas and they divided them into working groups to reduce duplications. Winnowing down the drafts to twenty-one items which were accepted with modifications, the major areas concerned communications media, education and training, employment, exploitation of women and girls, family health, family planning, family security (including the elderly and disabled), financial assistance, integration to development, political and social participation, and systems to gather, collate and evaluate data on women's status. The committee evaluated seven other drafts having to do with expanding the role of women in peace initiatives and nation rebuilding, and adopted each of them with little or no modification.\n\nThe International Women's Year Tribune was a parallel conference scheduled by women to be held simultaneously with the official conference. The format allowed for non-governmental organizations (NGO) to meet and discuss the issues tabled at the official conference, but gave them no authority to take any action. There were around 6,000 delegates who attended the Tribune, organized by Mildred Persinger the UN's YWCA observer, including such women as Domitila Barrios de Chungara, head of the Siglo XX Miners' Union Housewives Committee of Bolivia; Nancy Cárdenas, Mexican lesbian activist; Jacqui Ceballos, former president of the New York chapter of National Organization for Women (NOW); Thelma Daily of the Coalition of Labor Union Women (CLUW); Carole DeSaram, president of the New York NOW Betty Friedan, founder of NOW; Ronnie Feit of the National Women's Political Caucus; Dorothy Haene of the United Auto Workers; Dorothy Height of the National Council of Negro Women; Pat Keppler of the Harvard Divinity School; Esperanza Martí, director of \"Fem\" magazine and a Mexican feminist; Jan Peterson of CLUW; and Margo St. James, founder of COYOTE. The founders of Women's World Banking met as part of the tribunal, including Michaela Walsh, a program associate at the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, who met Ela R. Bhatt, founder of Self-Employed Women's Association of India, and Esther Ocloo, a Ghanian businesswoman. \n\nThe Tribune was held on the opposite side of Mexico City, creating a physical as well as philosophical separation of the two groups. The difference in format stemmed from position that the delegates participated in discussions on official policy; whereas, the NGO tribunal women dealt with means and methods of program implementation to improve women's educational opportunities, equality, economic position and collaboration. The Tribune hosted thirty-six planned meetings and nearly two hundred spontaneously organized additional sessions covering a wide variety of topics from development, education, health, human rights, peace and work to birth control, gender violence, lesbianism, prostitution, racism and sexism. The dynamics of this conference were different from the official UN session because the participants were not governmental representatives, and delegates were free to discuss items openly avoided by the officials. But the free discussion also made apparent the divide separating the women. Westernized women focused on individual freedom, Socialist women focused on the state's obligation to enforce the collective rights of all members of a society, and those from countries not aligned to either of these views pointed to the need for development, economic empowerment, food security and correction of the structural problems in systems.\n\nWomen from developing nations pointed out issues such as how aid from industrialized nations was often harmful, as it displaced women practicing subsistence agriculture with technology. Without adequate training to utilize technology, women who had been the prevalent food producers no longer had means to support their families. If they were utilized by new industry, women tended to be exploited as a cheap labor source, as laws for equal pay were non-existent in many developing economies. In light of these survival issues, the demands of others asking for sexual and reproductive health and rights seemed frivolous and indicative of self-indulgence. Socialist women felt that equality could only come with a transformation of geopolitical relationships, which recognized the contributions of all members of society and denounced exploitation and discrimination on any basis. Amid the wide range of views, there were performances aimed at capturing media attention, with some attendees wearing national costumes and others wearing business attire, as well as rhetoric pitting ideologies against each other to gain a spotlight. At one point, frustrated that they could not be part of the official dialogue, a group of radical feminists planned to stage a march through the streets of Mexico City. Instead, a group of fifteen delegates was chosen who presented amendments to Helvi Sipilä requesting that they be given to the official committees. It was the first time that a Tribune had ever been successful in presenting their input to the officials. The amendments the Tribune proposed included establishment of a UN office to monitor success of the Plan, issue annual progress reports, and investigate human rights abuse against women. They also asked for the UN to improve their internal hiring policies so that more women were not only hired, but promoted to management and executive positions.\n\nThe conference adopted the official World Plan of Action, as well as the Declaration of Mexico on the Equality of Women and Their Contribution to Development and Peace, which was an indictment of the foreign policies that pushed military or corporatist intervention to coerce developing nations from determining their own path. The Declaration passed with a vote of eighty-nine in favor, three against, and eighteen nations abstaining. The Plan established minimum targets to be attained within the next five years to secure for women the equal access of the mechanisms to attaining equality and eliminating discrimination; to full participation in development and their integration in extant systems; and to their contributions toward world peace and non-aggression. To reach these goals, the conference made education, employment, family planning, health and nutrition, and housing key focal points. The Tribune played a uniting role, by bringing together people of diverse cultures and backgrounds to formulate the means to overcome differences in objective and create pathways for NGOs to participate in the policy-making process. The conference not only encouraged member countries to develop policies which would lead to the improvement of women's lives, but led to the establishment of the United Nations Decade for Women as a means to focus those policies, as well as establishing a series of conferences to follow-up. The first of these would be the Second World Conference on Women to be held in Copenhagen. To assist in advancing women's development with research, operations support and training, the UN created the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women (INSTRAW) and the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM).\n\nFor the first time, institutional collection within the UN evaluated the extent of problems and conditions of women in varying nations, specifically separating data by sex to bring to light the level of inequality and discrimination towards women. It was also one of the first international meetings of organized lesbians from multiple countries and cultures. Attitudes within the member nations and the UN itself began to change as a result of the focus on women brought about by the conference. Another benefit of the conference was that it connected women to other women in their struggles. Though in many ways the conference was not as effective in poor and undeveloped countries, because enforcement of the principals established and communication with women was harder in the developing world, there was a surge in women's activists coming together across the globe, as well as governmental understanding of the needs of their constituent women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16626090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16626090", "title": "XCOR Lynx", "text": "XCOR Lynx\n\nThe XCOR Lynx was a proposed suborbital horizontal-takeoff, horizontal-landing (HTHL),\nrocket-powered spaceplane that was under development by the California-based company XCOR Aerospace to compete in the emerging suborbital spaceflight market. The Lynx was intended to carry one pilot, a ticketed passenger, and/or a payload above 100 km altitude. The concept was under development since 2003, when a two-person suborbital spaceplane was announced under the name Xerus.\n\nIn January 2016, XCOR changed plans for the first flight of the Lynx spaceplane. It was initially planned for the second quarter of 2016 from the Midland spaceport in Texas, but in early 2016 it was pushed to an \"undisclosed and tentative\" date at the Mojave spaceport.\n\nIn May 2016, XCOR announced development of the Lynx had been halted with layoffs of approximately one-third of the staff; the company intends to concentrate on development of their liquid hydrogen rocket under contract with United Launch Alliance, instead.\n\nFollowing the bankruptcy of XCOR Aerospace in 2017, the assets of the company were sold to the nonprofit organization Build A Plane, which will focus on education rather than suborbital flight.\n\nIn 2003, XCOR proposed the Xerus (pronunciation: zEr'us) suborbital spaceplane concept. It was to be capable of transporting one pilot and one passenger as well as some science experiments and it would even be capable of carrying an upper stage which would launch near apogee and therefore would potentially be able to carry satellites into low-Earth orbit. As late as 2007, XCOR continued to refer to their future two-person spaceplane concept as \"Xerus\".\n\nThe Lynx was initially announced on March 2008, with plans for an operational vehicle within two years. In December 2008 a ticket price of $95,000 per seat was announced, with flights intended to commence in 2010. The build of the Lynx Mark I flight article did not commence until mid 2013 and, XCOR claimed that the first flight would take place in 2015. In July 2015 ticket prices increased by 50% to $150,000. In November 2015, three co-founders left their existing positions with the company to start Agile Aero. Dan DeLong (Chief Engineer) and Aleta Jackson left the company entirely, while Jeff Greason, the former CEO, remained on the Board of Directors until he resigned in March 2016. Greason cited problems with the Lynx vehicle body, although the engine had been a success. As of mid 2016, development was suspended in favor of a ULA contracted hydrolox engine, the 8H21.\n\nPassengers who had hoped to make flights in the Lynx included the winners from the Axe Apollo Space Academy worldwide perfume contest, and Justin Dowd of Worcester, Massachusetts, who won Metro International's Race for Space newspaper contest.\n, the passenger ticket was projected to cost $150,000.\nAs of December, 2015, Kayak.com was reportedly selling tickets for flights on the XCOR Lynx starting in 2016.\n\nIn May 2016, the company halted development of the Lynx spaceplane and pivoted company focus toward development its LOX/LH2 engine technology, particularly on a funded project for United Launch Alliance. The company laid off more than 20 people of the 50–60 persons onboard prior to May.\n\nThe Lynx was intended to have four liquid rocket engines at the rear of the fuselage burning a mixture of LOX-Kerosene, each engine producing of thrust.\n\n\n\nThe Lynx Mark III was intended to be the same vehicle as the Mark II with an External Dorsal Mounted Pod of and was to be large enough to hold a two-stage carrier to launch a microsatellite or multiple nanosatellites into low-Earth orbit.\n\nThe XR-5K18 is a piston pump fed LOX/RP-1 engine using an expander cycle. The engine chamber and regenerative nozzle are cooled by RP-1\n\nThe development program of the XCOR Lynx 5K18 LOX/kerosene engine reached a major milestone in March 2011. Integrated test firings of the engine/nozzle combination demonstrated the ability of the aluminum nozzle to withstand the high temperatures of rocket-engine exhaust.\n\nIn March 2011, United Launch Alliance (ULA) announced they had entered into a joint-development contract with XCOR for a flight-ready, cryogenic LH2/LOX upper-stage rocket engine (see XCOR/ULA liquid-hydrogen, upper-stage engine development project). The Lynx 5K18 effort to develop a new aluminum alloy engine nozzle using new manufacturing techniques would remove several hundred pounds of weight from the large engine leading to significantly lower-cost and more-capable commercial and US government space flights.\n\nIt was reported in 2010 that the Mark I airframe could use a carbon/epoxy ester composite, and the Mark II a carbon/cyanate with a nickel alloy for the nose and leading-edge thermal protection.\n\nThe flight article Lynx Mark I was claimed as being fabricated and assembled in Mojave beginning in mid 2013. The cockpit of the Lynx (made of carbon fibre and designed by AdamWorks, Colorado) was reported as being one of the items that held up the assembly.\n\nAt the start of October 2014, the cockpit was attached to the fuselage. The rear carry-through spar was attached to the fuselage shortly after Thanksgiving 2014. At the beginning of May 2015, the strakes were attached to the airframe. The last major component, the wings, were expected to be delivered in late 2015. In January 2016 XCOR's CEO Jay Gibson said \"...we anticipate the wings to be there in the very near future...\" and the CTO Michael Valant said they were finding that calibrating the flaps was a challenge. In February 2016 the first prototype was described as a \"wingless shell.\"\n\nIn XCOR's November 2016 news report they stated that \"Even though the program made great forward progress integrating the vehicle structural elements during 2015 and early 2016 the progress on the control surface elements lagged in design. In an effort to prevent potential rework resulting from implementing designs not yet mature the Lynx fabrication was paused, so our engineering team has gone back to the design board.\"\n\nTests of the XR-5K18 main engine began in 2008.\n\nIn February 2011, it was reported that engine tests were largely complete and the vehicle aerodynamic design had completed two rounds of wind tunnel testing. A third and final round of tests was completed in late 2011 using a \"1/60-scale supersonic wind tunnel model of Lynx.\"\n\nIn October 2014, XCOR claimed that flight tests of the Mark I prototype would start in 2015. However, by January 2016, technical hurdles led the company to state that they had not assigned a new projected date for test flights.\n\nIn March 2011, XCOR submitted the Lynx as a reusable launch vehicle for carrying research payloads in response to NASA's suborbital reusable launch vehicle (sRLV) solicitation, which is a part of NASA's Flight Opportunities Program. No contract for providing this was ever announced.\n\nAccording to XCOR, the Lynx was intended to fly four or more times a day, and would have also had the capacity to deliver payloads into space. The Lynx Mark I prototype was expected to perform its first test flight in 2015, followed by a flight of the Mark II production model twelve to eighteen months afterwards.\n\nXCOR had planned to have the Lynx's initial flights at the Mojave Air and Spaceport in Mojave, California or any licensed spaceport with a 2,400 meter (7900 ft) runway. Media reports in 2014 anticipated that by the end of 2015 or in 2016 the Lynx was expected to begin flying suborbital space tourism flights and scientific research missions from a new spaceport on the Caribbean island of Curaçao. However, the company stated in January 2016 that they had not assigned a new projected date for test flights and a date for the launch of commercial operations could not be anticipated.\n\nBecause it lacked any propulsion system other than its rocket engines, the Lynx would have to be towed to the end of the runway. Once positioned on the runway, the pilot would have ignited the four rocket engines, take-off and begin a steep climb. The engines will be shut off at approximately 138,000 feet (42 km) and Mach 2. The spaceplane would then continue to climb, unpowered until it reached an apogee of approximately 200,000 feet (61 km). The spacecraft would have experienced a little over four minutes of weightlessness, before re-entering the Earth's atmosphere. The occupants of the Lynx were intended to have experienced up to four times normal gravity during re-entry. After re-entry, the Lynx would have glided down and performed an unpowered landing. The total flight time was projected to last about 30 minutes. The Lynx was expected to be able to perform 40 flights before maintenance was required.\n\n, Orbital Outfitters was reportedly designing pressure suits for XCOR use.. In 2012, Orbital Outfitters reported that they had completed a technical mockup of the Lynx craft itself.\n\nAs of 2012, the successor to the Mark II might have been a two-stage, fully reusable orbital vehicle that took off and landed horizontally.\n\nIn 2008 Mark I production was projected to cost , and the Mark II around .\n\n\n"}
